-- Downgrades May Slow Structured Note Sales by Restricting Buyers
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2012-06-28T18:36:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/downgrades-may-slow-structured-note-sales-by-restricting-buyers.html
U.S. structured note sales may slow
further after Moody’s Investors Service lowered ratings on 15
banks last week, as some investors may be barred from buying
their securities.  Moody’s downgraded the 11 largest issuers of U.S.
structured notes on June 21, with Credit Suisse Group AG
dropping the most at three levels to A2, or the sixth-highest
investment grade.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the largest issuer of
the U.S. securities, fell one level to the second-lowest
investment grade.  This year has already been the worst for U.S. structured
note issuance since at least 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Banks have sold $19.5 billion of the securities, 13
percent behind last year’s pace, as low  interest rates  have made
it more difficult to create attractive terms on the notes.  Moody’s rating cuts “may trigger redemptions for some
investors or prohibit those investors from buying more of the
securities,” Alexandre Ecot, a director at  Societe Generale 
SA’s group that sells derivatives and structured notes, said in
a telephone interview.  Distributors to funds or endowments that are restricted to
buying investments at a certain rating or higher “are losing
clients, especially on the rate-related notes,” said Flavio Paparella, a partner at TCT Securities and Derivatives LLC, a
Miami-based broker-dealer.  Rate-tied note issuance has declined 30 percent this year
to $3.11 billion. The five-year swap rate, a benchmark for
borrowing costs, is at 0.95 percent, down from 1.8 percent a
year earlier, Bloomberg data show.  Downgrade Expected  Randy Pegg, head of distribution of structured products at
Advisors Asset Management Inc. in Monument,  Colorado , said in an
e-mail that the mass downgrade won’t “hurt us much because it
was expected.” Most of its clients approve investments as long
as they’re investment-grade, he said.  The lowest ranking that Moody’s assigns to the top 10 U.S.
structured note issuers is Baa2, shared by Bank of America and
Citigroup Inc. The rating company cut Citigroup two notches last
week.  The  Royal Bank of Canada  lost its spot as one of the
highest-rated issuers after being reduced by Moody’s two levels
to Aa3, or the fourth-highest level. Toronto-based  Bank of Nova
Scotia  is now the highest-rated U.S. issuer among banks, with an
Aa1 from Moody’s, which is the second-highest grade, and an AA-,
fourth from the top, from  Standard & Poor’s .  Moody’s move had little effect on credit-default swap
levels because “it was already priced into the market,”
Societe Generale’s Ecot said.  Default Swaps Drop  Default swaps on the 15 banks fell to an average of 239.9
basis points the day after the credit rater’s announcement, from
246.7 a day earlier, Bloomberg data show. The swaps, which pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt, have
increased to 253.1 since then, Bloomberg prices show.  Structured notes are securities created by banks, which
package debt with derivatives to offer customized bets to
investors while earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are
contracts whose value is derived from stocks, bonds, currencies
and commodities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in  New York  at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 