-- Dubai Stocks Rise on Debt Repayments and Oil as Oman Advances
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-06-28T08:58:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/dubai-stocks-rise-on-debt-repayments-and-oil-as-oman-advances.html
Dubai’s shares advanced for the
first time in more than a week as companies in the emirate raise
funds and as oil prices rose this week, boosting the outlook for
economic growth.  Union Properties PJSC (UPP) , a Dubai-based developer, rallied 5.9
percent.  Dubai Investments PJSC (DIC) , which owns stakes in 40
businesses, rose the most in more than a month. The  DFM General
Index (DFMGI)  increased 0.2 percent, set for the biggest gain since June
19, to 1,454.85 at 12:43 p.m. in the emirate. The measure fell
1.8 percent the previous six trading days, trimming the gain so
far this year to 7.5 percent. The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200) 
slipped 0.2 percent and Oman’s shares climbed.  “Domestically, we are seeing companies’ ability either to
restructure or raise funds as positive sign for the economy on
the medium term,” said Tariq Qaqish, Dubai-based deputy head of
asset management at Al Mal Capital. Shares are gaining after “a
combination of international markets’ positive move and a
projected recovery in  oil prices .”  Dubai-based Majid Al Futtaim Holding LLC, an operator of
malls and hotels in the Middle East, raised $500 million from
the sale of seven-year bonds, six bankers familiar with the
transaction said yesterday. This is the latest sale by a company
in Dubai, which avoided default in 2009 and has recovered this
year as state-linked companies paid and refinanced maturing
debt.  Tamweel PJSC (TAMWEEL) ’s Islamic bond climbed to a record yesterday
as the Dubai-based mortgage provider controlled by  Dubai Islamic
Bank PJSC (DIB)  plans its second sukuk sale this year, boosted by an
increase in property sales.  Oil Effect  Shares in Dubai have fallen more than 1 percent this month
amid a drop in Persian Gulf equities linked to weaker oil
prices, with Brent crude set for its worst quarterly performance
since the final three months of 2008. Gulf Arab oil exporters,
including the U.A.E. and  Saudi Arabia (SABIC) , supply about a fifth of
the world’s oil.  Crude for August delivery increased as much as 0.6 percent
to $80.70 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange today
before paring the gain. The S&P 500 in the U.S. rose yesterday
after orders for durable goods and the number of Americans
signing contracts to buy an existing home rebounded in May.  Dubai, the second-largest of seven emirates that make up
the United Arab Emirates, relies on trade, tourism and property
for growth. Economic growth in the city home to the world’s
tallest tower may reach as much as 5 percent in 2012 from 3.4
percent last year, Al Ittihad reported this month, citing the
director general of the emirate’s chamber of commerce and
industry, Hamad Mubarak Buamim.  Union Properties was set for the biggest gain since May 29
after rising to 39.7 fils. Dubai Investments climbed as much as
3.1 percent to 70 fils, before trimming gains to 68 fils.  Elsewhere in the Persian Gulf region, Oman’s  MSM30 Index (MSM30) 
gained 0.7 percent. Kuwait’s  gauge  and  Abu Dhabi ’s  ADX General
Index (ADSMI)  lost 1 percent.  Measures (BHSEASI)  in Qatar and Bahrain were little
changed. Saudi Arabia’s market was closed for the weekend.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  