-- The Chief Justice Comes to the Rescue
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-06-28T18:21:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/the-chief-justice-comes-to-the-rescue.html
Judges can say things politicians
can’t. So it was left to U.S. Chief Justice John G. Roberts to
use the three-letter word for the individual mandate that
President  Barack Obama  dared  not utter  during the debate over
health-care reform:  “The Affordable Care Act’s requirement that certain 
individuals pay a financial penalty for not obtaining health
insurance may reasonably be characterized as a tax,”  wrote 
Roberts in today’s historic ruling upholding the law. “Because
the Constitution permits such a tax, it is not our role to
forbid it, or to pass upon its wisdom or fairness.”  Thus the mandate, and Obama’s signature legislative
accomplishment, stands. This is the best result, for the court
and the country. It is not, however, the final word. With the
law’s constitutionality affirmed, the debate will turn again to
the political arena. Much of it -- most of it? --- will not be
edifying. At least it will be in a more appropriate venue.  From a constitutional standpoint, as Roberts noted, the
court owes Congress “strong deference” when it legislates on
matters of national economic policy. The first six pages of his
opinion amount to a civics lesson about the wisdom of judicial
restraint.  From a policy standpoint, the law will improve the lives of
the  50 million  or so Americans without health-care coverage, and
provide security for the tens of millions more who already have
it but fear losing it. The court recognized the  centrality of
the mandate  and legitimized it. The law also represents a real
attempt to rein in runaway health-care costs, which threaten
economic growth and the  federal budget .  Roberts himself, whose loyalty to the conservative
political cause was called into question  within minutes  of the
decision’s release, deserves no small amount of credit. To
overturn the law would have been a bald act of  judicial activism 
in the midst of a presidential campaign.  Decades from now, maybe we’ll read the behind-the-scenes
story of the negotiations that brought Roberts into an alliance
with the four liberal members of the court. (News flash: They’re
not politicians, but Supreme Court justices do play politics.)
Until then, opponents of the law may take solace that
Roberts’s opinion rests not on the  Commerce Clause  -- Congress’s
power to regulate trade among the states -- but instead under
its power to “lay and collect taxes.”  Conservatives can be expected, if they haven’t already, to
cite this decision the next time Congress tries to use the
Commerce Clause to justify some regulation.  Another aspect of the decision that opponents of the
health-care law will probably cite is how closely it divided the
court. One of the purposes of the judicial branch,  as we have
said , is to provide clarity to the other two. When four justices
of the Supreme Court issue an opinion saying a law should be
found “invalid in its entirety,” they provide opponents of the
law with a valuable sound bite, if not a legal rationale.  About those sound bites: There will be a lot of them
between now and Election Day. Republican presidential candidate
 Mitt Romney , reacting to the decision, said the law “was bad
policy yesterday; it’s bad policy today.” House Majority Leader
 Eric Cantor  announced a vote for July 11 to repeal the law. For
his part, the president hailed the decision and expressed a
desire not to “refight the political battles of two years ago.”  That may be overly hopeful. Much of the law remains to be
implemented, and it will be refined (definitely), improved
(ideally) and debated (certainly) in the months and years ahead.
Health care is  almost a fifth  of the economy and will remain a
political issue as well as a policy challenge. We are not
telling the president anything he doesn’t know.  This continuing debate may not have the drama of a  Supreme
Court  decision announced at 10 a.m. on the last day of the term
to a cameraless courtroom. But at least it will not have to
contend with the premise that Obamacare is unconstitutional or
that Congress does not have authority to legislate in this area.
For that, the president may want to send a thank-you note to the
chief justice.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 