-- The Supreme Court’s Most Impressive Achievement
-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 2012-06-28T22:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/the-supreme-court-s-most-impressive-achievement.html
The most fascinating aspect of the
Supreme Court’s anticlimactic  decision  to uphold the Affordable
Care Act isn’t the outcome. It’s that until the ruling was
handed down, nobody outside the court knew what the outcome was
going to be.  Imagine that. Smack in the middle of a city where leaks are
a way of life, here was a pending action that pundits were
proclaiming would determine President  Barack Obama ’s legacy, and
the capital’s legion of political reporters was unable to ferret
out the smallest advance hint of the court’s intentions -- even
though the initial vote probably came three months ago. The
justices themselves, their law clerks and all the personnel of
the court cooperate in maintaining the veil.  In an era when we have become accustomed to a government
that can’t keep its secrets, an institution whose members know
how to keep their mouths shut is refreshing. The recent cascade
of disclosures of national-security information from the Obama
administration is both embarrassing and destructive. It is not,
however, atypical. The old cliche is wrong: Washington doesn’t
leak like a sieve. It leaks like a flood.  The current contretemps isn’t even the administration’s
first episode of national-security leakage. Shortly before Obama
decided on the Afghanistan surge, his consideration of one was
leaked to the press. As analysts  pointed out , the leak was
almost certainly a device to pressure the White House to go
ahead with the surge.  “Wires climb with secrets,” Carl Sandburg wrote in his poem
“ Skyscraper .” Had he been writing about Washington, he might
have said instead that wires buzz with secrets -- because, for
too many people who possess them, the great joy of having a
secret seems to be the sharing. One reason to admire the court,
even when one disagrees with it, is its ability to withstand the
temptation to which other government bodies regularly yield.  Washington didn’t always leak the way it does today. During
the Civil War, the  New York  Herald published President  Abraham Lincoln ’s  State of the Union message  before it was delivered to
Congress in December 1861. Even many of Lincoln’s allies
considered the leak an act of treason -- not indiscretion, not
breach of trust, but treason. The leading suspect was Mary Todd
Lincoln, the president’s wife, and many historians think she was
the guilty party.  True, the cries against Mrs. Lincoln were concocted by the
president’s political enemies, most notably powerful members of
his own  Republican Party . But the sense of violation of the his
inner sanctum was so strong that when the Congress held
hearings, Lincoln was obliged to yield up a culprit, allowing
the White House groundskeeper to be accused.  Lost Mystique  For a long time, a mystique surrounded the secrets of the
government, particularly on issues of national security. In the
1960s, the New York Times published a photograph of President
 Lyndon Johnson  conferring with National Security Adviser
McGeorge Bundy. “Clearly visible in Bundy’s left hand,” notes
David Wise in his book “The Politics of Lying,” is “a spiral-
bound document stamped TOP SECRET DINAR.” “Dinar” was a code
word for a particular kind of signals intelligence.  The Johnson administration, Wise tells us, not only
retrieved the photographic negative from a cooperative Times,
but spent $250,000 developing a new code word and changing all
documents, around the world, formerly stamped DINAR.  The cooperation may sometimes have gone too far, but it
wasn’t unusual. Journalists knew about the Manhattan Project and
didn’t report it. They knew about the secret negotiations to end
the  Cuban missile crisis , and didn’t report them. (John Scali of
ABC News even became a key intermediary.)  That, of course, was another world. The Pentagon Papers and
Watergate changed everything. Reporters grew more aggressive and
more skilled in ferreting out secrets; newspapers became less
likely to heed official requests for silence; and -- perhaps
most important --  Washington  itself became peopled with a new
political class, more loyal to self or party than to
institution.  Let’s be clear. Except in the rare case when the leaker is
telling the world of some horrible scandal, leaking isn’t
admirable. It’s despicable. Not every leaker is Deep Throat; not
every scandal is Iran-Contra. Most of what is published from
unnamed sources is either mundane or self-serving.  The ordinary leaker deserves ostracism, not applause. He
lies daily to friends and colleagues, coworkers who imagine that
he is safe to talk to, when in fact he is ready to betray their
trust -- and the trust of his government -- often for no better
reason than to flaunt his superior access to information. (I
have met journalists who publish leaks describing leakers just
this way, as supreme egoists.)  In my own days as a  Supreme Court  clerk, more than three
decades ago, nobody sat us down for a lecture on discretion. We
just knew. We understood that if the hushed marble corridors and
chambers were illuminated by the glare of public scrutiny, it
would be impossible to undertake the weeks of quiet studying,
pondering and polishing that the work of the court requires.  Indeed, the preservation of the mystique helps explain why
the justices steadfastly refuse to allow cameras. Law is not a
visual medium, and the transformation of the hallowed halls of
thoughtful debate into just another sound-bite circus could only
be destructive of the tradition of contemplation that the
Supreme Court still represents.  People who are serious about following oral arguments are
free to read the transcripts or listen to the audio tapes. Just
as nobody can watch the video, neither does the court leak.
These two facts are of a piece. The Supreme Court isn’t like
everything else, and doesn’t try to be.  Justice Louis Brandeis, who served from 1916 to 1939, was
once asked why public respect for the Supreme Court was so high.
“Because we do our own work,” he answered. Despite the several
law clerks assigned to each justice and the court’s growing
administrative staff, this is still essentially true.  But there is another reason, and the ability of the Supreme
Court to keep its verdict on the Affordable Care Act secret for
three months is a reminder of it: Not only do the justices do
their own work, but they and the entire staff take their own
institution seriously enough to preserve its traditions and
prerogatives. The rest of Washington would do well to learn from
the court’s example.  (Stephen L. Carter is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
professor of law at  Yale University . He is the author of “The
Violence of Peace: America’s Wars in the Age of Obama,” and his
next novel, “The Impeachment of Abraham Lincoln,” will be
published in July. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why  John Roberts saved
Obamacare  and why  Mexico ’s next president  must combat its
economic cartels ;  Noah Feldman  on  Roberts’s restraint ;  Ramesh
Ponnuru  on  misunderstanding the court ’s decision;  Jeffrey
Goldberg  on whether  women can have it all ; William Pesek on
 Myanmar’s economic development ;  Jonathan Weil  on how the  Bank
for International Settlements   sees the industry ;  Steven Greenhut 
on using eminent domain to  take over foreclosed homes .  To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen L. Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu  or @StepCarter on
Twitter  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net  