-- States Face Tough Choice on Medicaid Funds After Ruling
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y   a n d   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-06-29T03:43:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/health-care-for-poor-challenges-republican-states-after-ruling.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  ruling on
President  Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul forces Republicans
in states that opposed the measure to make a difficult choice.  If the states go along with an expansion of the Medicaid
program, they get federal money that covers the bulk of the
costs. In doing so, they would also have to embrace a portion of
a law that they rejected as unconstitutional or too costly.  The law was designed to open the state-run program to an
estimated 17 million low-income Americans by forcing states to
loosen income limits for those who can qualify. The court
yesterday modified the measure by saying the federal government
can’t threaten to withhold existing money from states that don’t
fully comply with the Medicaid expansion.  “There’s probably a small group, at least initially, who
won’t do it,” said Ray Scheppach, the former executive director
of the  National Governors Association  who is now a professor of
public policy at the  University of Virginia  in Charlottesville.
“It’s part political. It’s part fiscal. There’s pressure on
them both ways.”  Republicans won control of the majority of governorships in
the 2010 elections, when concern about the expanded role of
government under Obama boosted turnout among the party’s voters.
Republican state leaders have opposed Obama’s 2010 Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act, and yesterday criticized the
Supreme Court’s decision to uphold the core of the law, which
requires individuals to obtain health insurance.  ‘Unaffordable’ Expansion  Republican leaders of states that challenged the health-
care law in court -- including Texas, Florida, Virginia, Ohio
and  Indiana  -- say they’re not sure their states will opt in.  Florida Attorney General  Pam Bondi , a Republican, called a
Medicaid expansion “massive” and “unaffordable.”  “We will have a choice on Medicaid, which is good,” Bondi
told reporters outside the state Capitol in Tallahassee. “We do
have to decide what to do and we have to do it very quickly.”  Texas Health and Human Services Executive Commissioner Tom
Suehs said in a statement the state is analyzing the ruling to
decide how to proceed.  “I’m pleased that it gives states more ability to push
back against a forced expansion of Medicaid,” he said.  Virginia Governor Robert McDonnell, the chairman of the
 Republican Governors Association , told reporters in Richmond
that he is considering the ruling and hasn’t made any decisions.
He said the expansion of Medicaid, which now consumes about one-
fifth of the state budget, will cost the state an added $2.2
billion over the next decade.  ‘Vast Expansion’  “That’s going to be a vast expansion in the amount of
money going from the general fund,” McDonnell said.  The Medicaid expansion would cost states $21 billion
through 2019, according to the Kaiser Commission on Medicaid and
the Uninsured, a non-profit group that researches health care.
The federal government would contribute $444 billion, the group
said in the report.  The Medicaid program has put added financial pressure on
states after the longest recession since the Great Depression as
more residents were thrown out of work. As  tax revenue  tumbled,
states were forced to close more than $500 billion of budget
gaps.  Following the Supreme Court’s decision, Republican state
leaders issued statements faulting a program they said ceded an
excessively large role to the federal government.  Congressional
Republicans  vowed to repeal the law, as did  Mitt Romney , the
former Massachusetts governor and Republican presidential
candidate.  ‘Everybody In’  Democrats celebrated the ruling. Illinois Governor  Pat Quinn  said his state will expand the Medicaid program. “We want
everybody in, nobody left out,” he told reporters.  The law signed by Obama expands Medicaid to cover all
Americans earning as much as 133 percent of the federal poverty
level, or about $30,657 for a family of four this year,
overruling eligibility rules that now vary by state.  The federal government would pay 100 percent of the costs
of the expansion until 2017. After that, states’ share of the
expansion rises to a maximum of 10 percent of the cost.  Should a state choose not to expand Medicaid, that may
affect coverage for those who earn too much to qualify for the
program and won’t receive subsidies offered under the law.
Insurance for that group may be prohibitively expensive.  Coverage Gap  “Very low income people may be covered,” said Bruce
Siegel, president and chief executive officer of the Washington-
based National Association of Public Hospitals and Health
Systems. “Lower middle-class and above may be covered. You
could potentially have this group of people around the poverty
line, millions of people, who are sort of out of luck.”  With pressure in  Washington  to curb the federal
government’s budget  deficits , state leaders may decide not to
expand Medicaid out of concern that Congress might force them to
cover more of the costs, said Marjorie Baldwin, a professor of
economics at  Arizona  State University who tracks health care.  “Given the current state of state budgets, we could expect
some states would decide they can’t do that,” she said.  While some states may decide against expanding Medicaid,
most will likely choose to do so given that the bulk of the
funding will come from the federal government, said I. Glenn
Cohen, an assistant professor at  Harvard Law School  who follows
health-care policy.  “It’s possible that some governors will, mostly for
political reasons, do it, but I still suspect most governors
will decide to expand Medicaid in keeping with what the federal
government wants to do,” Cohen said. “The deal Congress has
offered them going forward is really, really good.”  ‘Screwy Opinion’  New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie , who last month vetoed a
Democratic bill that would establish a health exchange in the
state, said his administration was still trying to make sense of
the decision.  “It was a screwy opinion: to say you can’t mandate that
people must buy something yet you’ll tax them if they don’t,”
Christie said yesterday on his “Ask the Governor” radio show.
He called an aspect of the ruling that limited the federal
government’s power to require states to expand Medicaid like a
“rainbow on a cloudy day.”  The law marks the biggest change to the U.S. health system
since Medicare and Medicaid were established in 1965. It was
designed to expand coverage to at least 30 million people --
primarily by expanding Medicaid and setting up markets where
consumers could buy insurance -- while controlling the soaring
costs of health care.  The law was challenged by 26 Republican-controlled states
and a small-business trade group. They contended the measure
exceeded Congress’s constitutional powers to regulate interstate
commerce and impose taxes.  The challenge focused on the insurance mandate, which
requires Americans to get coverage by 2014 or pay a penalty. The
concept was championed by Republicans years ago as an
alternative to Democratic proposals for a single government-run
health system.  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  