-- EDF Gets Six Years to Carry Out $12 Billion Safety Measures
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-06-28T16:48:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/edf-gets-six-years-to-carry-out-12-billion-of-safety-measures.html
Electricite de  France  SA, operator
of the country’s 58 nuclear reactors, has six years to complete
about 10 billion euros ($12 billion) of measures to boost safety
after  Japan ’s Fukushima disaster, the regulator said.  Autorite de Surete Nucleaire today published deadlines for
employing equipment such as diesel generators, bunkered control
rooms, and guards against flooding.  An estimate by state-owned EDF that the measures will cost
about 10 billion euros “is not improbable,” Andre-Claude
Lacoste, head of the watchdog, told reporters today.  “No one can ever guarantee that a nuclear accident will
never happen in France,” he said. “We may need 10 years to
completely understand what happened at Fukushima.”  The meltdown in Fukushima last year sparked a debate about
the reliance on atomic energy in France, which gets more than 75
percent of its electricity from nuclear power, the highest
proportion in the world. Some politicians had called for Paris-
based EDF, the world’s biggest nuclear operator, to close some
reactors.  While safety must be “more robust,” France’s nuclear
operators don’t need to immediately shut sites, Lacoste said.  “The stakes are high for the group,” EDF Chief Executive
Officer  Henri Proglio  said in a statement today, confirming that
the utility will complete the work required by the ASN.  Control Rooms  EDF was told today to install “core” safety equipment and
procedures at every plant to cope with extreme situations.
Emergency diesel generators for backup power have to be deployed
between 2016 and the end of 2018 and rapid response teams with
specialized equipment by the end of 2014. EDF also has to have
bunker-like control rooms.  EDF said it wants the rapid response force to be able to
intervene simultaneously at all reactors at any one site by 2014
and to have installed emergency diesel generators at each
reactor by 2018.  Stress tests on nuclear installations carried out in  Europe 
were “remarkable” in their thoroughness, Lacoste said, urging
U.S. authorities to require backup diesel generators and in-
depth inspections at reactors every decade. “We want the U.S.
regulators to be as rigorous as the Europeans,” he said.  The regulator published its broad requirements for the
industry in January and today made the details public.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  