-- Medicare Scare Ad Makes False Claim of Cuts for Seniors
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2012-06-28T16:27:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/medicare-scare-ad-makes-false-claim-of-cuts-for-seniors.html
Florida  seniors will be living a
“nightmare” because Senator  Bill Nelson  voted for $500 billion
in Medicare cuts, the anonymous voice warns in the most-aired
advertisement in his re-election race -- a message repeated in
similar spots targeting other Democrats across the country.  It’s also wrong, according to a Republican health-care
expert and independent analysts.  “There are no reductions in the Medicare benefits promised
in law,” said Gail Wilensky, who served as administrator of the
Centers for Medicaid and Medicare under President  George H.W. Bush  and is a senior fellow at Project Hope, a health-research
organization in  Virginia .  The nonpartisan Concord Coalition, a budget research group,
says the ads assume insurers will cut Medicare benefits to
comply with President  Barack Obama ’s 2010 Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act, which scales back payments to Medicare
Advantage plans, an alternative to traditional Medicare.  The law, the core of which was found constitutional today
by the U.S. Supreme Court, also slows the growth of Medicare
payments to hospitals and other health providers. Seniors’
benefits weren’t reduced in the legislation.  That hasn’t deterred Republican-aligned groups such as
Crossroads Grassroots Policy Strategies and the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce from the benefit-cut assertion in campaign television
commercials targeting the law that have outnumbered positive ads
by a 3-to-1 ratio since measure took effect, according to data
from Kantar Media’s CMAG, which tracks campaign advertising.  Critical States  CMAG data show the erroneous claim has aired in several
states that will be critical to determining which party controls
the White House and the  U.S. Senate , including Florida,  Missouri 
and  Nevada .  Republicans and critics of the law argue that, under
Obama’s law, Medicare is scheduled to grow at a slower rate,
reducing spending by $507 billion from 2012 to 2021.  “The facts are clear,” said Rob Engstrom, the Chamber’s
political director, in an e-mail. “The Chamber proudly stands
by its ad and will continue to educate Floridians about the
dangers of the health care law.”  Even so, Medicare spending will continue to grow in real
dollars. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office projects
Medicare spending will reach $887 billion in 2020, up from $499
billion in actual spending in 2009.  Voucher Plan  What’s more, Republicans assume the same savings in their
own budget blueprint crafted by House Budget Committee Chairman
 Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin Republican. The plan would convert
Medicare to a voucher plan, a proposal that’s drawn scorn from
seniors’ groups including the  AARP  because it would end Medicare
as a defined-benefit program. While the current law plows its
projected savings back into subsidies to help low-income
individuals buy insurance, the Ryan plan counts the money toward
debt reduction.  Representative  Chris Van Hollen , a Maryland Democrat who
led his party’s House election efforts in 2010, called the
broadcast deluge Nelson and other Democrats are facing
“breathtaking in its hypocrisy.”  He said it recreates a campaign strategy from 2010, when
dozens of Republican House candidates ran against Democrats by
denouncing Obama’s health-care overhaul for its supposed
Medicare benefit cuts, helping their party win control of the
House.  “They’re doing it again,” said Illinois Representative
Jan Schakowsky, an Illinois Democrat who co-chairs the
Democratic Seniors Task Force in the House.  Creating Confusion  “I definitely am concerned because, at the very least,
what it does is to confuse people,” she said. “A
counterapproach is really going to be needed.”  In Missouri, an ad sponsored by Crossroads that’s run 858
times says Democratic Senator  Claire McCaskill  voted for
Medicare cuts that could slash benefits for the program’s
enrollees.  In Florida, the Chamber-sponsored “Nightmare” ad says 20
million people could lose their health coverage and that seniors
will see $500 billion in Medicare cuts.  Nelson is seeking a
third term; Representative Connie Mack IV is favored to emerge
as his challenger in an Aug. 14 Republican primary.  In a Crossroads-sponsored ad in  North Dakota , Democratic
Senate candidate Heidi Heitkamp is attacked for endorsing the
health-care law after she pledged to “never vote to take away a
seniors’ health care.”  Coverage Loss  Other ads use imagery to suggest seniors will lose their
health-care coverage. An ad by the American Future Fund, a
nonprofit founded by Iowa Republican political operatives,
flashes a picture of a distraught elderly man as the narrator
cites $500 billion in Medicare cuts supported by Representative
Joe Donnelly of  Indiana , a Democrat running for Senate.  A spot in Virginia targets Democratic Senate candidate  Tim Kaine , a former governor and Democratic National Committee
chairman, with the “old, discredited charge” that he supported
$500 billion in Medicare cuts, according to Politifact.com, a
research project based in Tampa which has labeled the Crossroads
GPS-sponsored ad false.  The Montana  Republican Party  is sponsoring a similar ad
against Attorney General Steve Bullock, a Democrat who is
running for governor.  Romney Response  Presumptive Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney 
also has been making the supposed cuts part of his campaign
pitch. With the core of the health-care law ruled constitutional
today by the U.S. Supreme Court, Romney signaled he’ll continue
to make that argument.  “Obamacare cuts Medicare -- cuts Medicare by approximately
$500 billion,” Romney said in  Washington  in remarks responding
to the court ruling.  At issue is an estimated $555 billion in spending
reductions in Medicare from 2011 to 2020, according to the
 Congressional Budget Office , achieved primarily through slower
payments to hospitals and premiums paid to Medicare Advantage
providers.  Republicans are assuming the payment reductions will lead
insurance companies to scale back benefits above the basic
Medicare package, said Wilensky, the ex-official under the first
President Bush. While saying she considers it “unreasonable to
think” that there wouldn’t be reductions in some benefits
provided to seniors, she also confirms that such cuts aren’t
part of the law.  Joshua Gordon, the Concord Coalition’s policy director,
questions using the term “benefit cut” to describe some of the
changes that could occur.  Gym Membership  “You could be a 65-year-old senior in  South Florida  who is
healthy and getting a free gym membership and you could lose
that free gym membership,” he said. “We do not consider that a
benefit cut.”  While it’s unclear whether the savings will lead to benefit
cuts, the 2012 Ryan budget proposal, issued in 2011, “clearly
was a cut to benefits in Medicare,” Gordon said. “The initial
cut with Democrats happens to providers, and the initial cut
with Republicans happens to beneficiaries,” he said.  -- With assistance from Alex Wayne in Washington and Greg Giroux
in Virginia. Editors: Michael Tackett, Don Frederick  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  