-- Heebner at Bottom for Fourth Year in Five Sticks to Bet
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2012-06-28T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/heebner-at-bottom-for-fourth-year-in-five-sticks-to-bet.html
Kenneth Heebner ranked as America’s
No. 1 stock picker before losing his touch and most of his main
fund’s assets. The 71-year-old manager, at the bottom of his
peer group for the fourth year in five, hasn’t lost his swagger.  Heebner, whose  CGM Focus Fund (CGMFX)  topped all diversified U.S.
stock mutual funds in the decade through 2007, lost an annual
average of 6.3 percent in the five years through June 26,
trailing 96 percent of the same group, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. CGM Focus has been in the bottom 6
percent of the large-cap growth category every year since 2008,
with the exception of 2010, when it beat 66 percent of peers.  “Most people think this is the worst time in the world to
be optimistic, but my portfolio is positioned for strength in
the U.S.,” Heebner said in a telephone interview from his
Boston office. “I am functioning in a contrarian mode.”  With the U.S. economy expanding an average annual 2.4
percent per quarter since the recession ended in June 2009, the
weakest recovery in six decades, Heebner acknowledges being too
upbeat about the prospects for stocks such as  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and
 Ford Motor Co. (F)  that depended on a stronger economy. The fund’s
assets have plunged to $1.9 billion from the June 2008 peak of
$10.3 billion.  A star of the early 1980s through the mid-’90s, Heebner has
bounced back before, after missing out on the 1998-99
technology-stock surge. This time, with central banks across the
world running out of tools to revive their economies and
governments forced to reduce spending, some analysts are
questioning how long you can be contrarian before you’re wrong.  ‘Extreme Performance’  “It is difficult to have any conviction he will turn it
around,” Kevin McDevitt, a  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  analyst, said in a
telephone interview. Heebner works largely on his own, a labor-
intensive process that may be hard to keep up, according to
McDevitt.  Heebner considers himself a spotter of investment themes as
well as a stock picker. The manager had 21 percent of his fund
in banks and 12 percent in airlines at the end of the first
quarter, according to a  regulatory filing . Heebner owned 4.3
million shares of Citigroup with a value of $156 million and
14.1 million shares of Delta Air Lines Inc. valued at $140
million as of March 31.  “With a strategy that bold it is a given you are going to
have some extreme performance,”  Russel Kinnel , director of
mutual fund research at Chicago-based Morningstar, said in a
phone interview.  Heebner said in the interview he still loves what he is
does and has no intention of retiring. He studies reports on 25
industries, looking for trends on which he can capitalize. For
much of the past decade, his instincts led him to the right
spots.  ‘My Hero’  In 2000 and 2001, he profited by betting against tech
stocks as the Nasdaq 100 Index crashed. He began buying
homebuilders such as Miami-based  Lennar Corp. (LEN) , ahead of the
multiyear run-up in home prices.  By the start of 2005, seven months before homebuilding
stocks peaked, he sold them and moved into energy and commodity
companies in time to catch the boom there.  “I want to be more like Ken Heebner -- he’s my hero,”
William Danoff, manager of the $79.5 billion  Fidelity
Contrafund (FCNTX) , said in a September 2008 interview with Kiplinger’s
Personal Finance magazine in which he described his rival’s
performance as “staggering.”  By then, Heebner’s slide had begun. In 2008, CGM Focus lost
48 percent as the global recession hurt commodity prices and a
move into beaten-down financial stocks proved premature. Heebner
sold his insurance stocks in the first quarter of 2009 at a
loss, he wrote in a regulatory filing, which caused him to miss
the nascent rally in financial companies.  ‘Costly Error’  “It was simply a costly trading error,” he said in the
interview. The fund rose 10 percent in 2009, trailing the 26
percent gain of the  S&P 500 , including reinvested dividends.  After a 17 percent climb in 2010, Heebner slumped again in
2011 when fears of a slowing economy triggered losses in
holdings such as Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford, down 36 percent,
and New York-based Citigroup, which fell 37 percent in the
second half, after he added it to the fund. CGM Focus lost 26
percent in 2011, versus a 2.1 percent return for the S&P 500.  This quarter, New York-based  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Irvine,
California-based  Western Digital Corp. (WDC) , a maker of disk drives
and networking gear, fell as Europe’s debt crisis escalated.
Both stocks were among the fund’s 10 largest holdings as of
March 31.  Heebner’s decision to sell short 10- and 30-year Treasury
bonds in the first quarter went awry when investors piled into
the government debt as a safe haven. In a short sale, an
investor borrows and sells an asset with the goal of buying it
back later for less and pocketing the difference.  ‘Miserable Time’  “I would have done better if I had been more defensive,”
Heebner said.  Heebner has had “a miserable time” finding themes that
work since 2008, said  Jeff Tjornehoj , an analyst with Denver-
based Lipper, which tracks mutual funds.  “You would hope a manager has some idea of what is coming
around the corner,” Tjornehoj said in a telephone interview.
“I can’t see a good reason to get into this fund.”  Heebner isn’t the only prominent manager to suffer a
setback in recent years. Legg Mason Inc.’s  Bill Miller , who beat
the S&P 500 Index for an unprecedented 15 years through 2005,
trailed the U.S. benchmark in five of the next six years. He
stepped down from his main fund on April 30.  Tidal Waves  Bruce Berkowitz , named U.S. stock fund manager of the
decade in 2010 by Morningstar, lost 32 percent in his  Fairholme
Fund (FAIRX)  last year as his bets on banks and insurers soured. The $7
billion fund has bounced back in 2012.  “Stock pickers have been riding in a little raft and these
economic tidal waves have been coming along to upset
everything,” said  Jack Ablin , chief investment officer at
Chicago-based Harris Private Bank, where he oversees about $60
billion in assets.  Global economic weakness plays into Heebner’s thesis that
the U.S. is poised to outperform most countries, according to
the manager. Diminished growth in Asia and Europe will result in
lower oil and commodity prices, a de facto tax cut for U.S.
consumers, Heebner said.  The real estate bust has created pent-up demand for housing
that eventually will lead to another surge in building, he said.
Confidence among U.S. homebuilders climbed in June to a five-
year high, based on the National Association of Home
Builders/Wells Fargo confidence index.  ‘Getting Worse’  “There are forces out there driving the U.S. in a positive
direction,” Heebner said, without giving a specific forecast.  Not everyone shares that outlook.  John Taylor , chairman of
the currency hedge fund FX Concepts LLC, told a Bloomberg asset
management conference in Boston on June 14 that the U.S. is
being dragged into recession by Europe’s debt crisis.  Neel Kashkari, head of global equities at Newport Beach,
California-based Pacific Investment Management Co., said at the
same meeting that the U.S. economy is slowing.  “Unemployment is not getting better, it’s getting worse,”
Kashkari said.  Heebner isn’t bothered by pessimism around him. Negative
sentiment, he said in the Bloomberg News interview,
“historically has been associated with maximum points of
opportunity for investing.” The “enormous negative publicity”
about U.S. banks doesn’t square with the companies’ improving
fundamentals, according to Heebner.  Kemp’s Backing  “When sentiment turns, I want to be sure to be there,” he
said.  Robert Kemp, who hired Heebner in 1976 at Boston-based
Loomis Sayles & Co., said the recent slump hasn’t changed the
manager.  “He is just as talented and passionate as ever,” said
Kemp, the president of CGM Funds. “All he does is manage
money.”  Steven Roge, a portfolio manager with Bohemia, New York-
based R.W. Roge & Co., said he wouldn’t be surprised to see
Heebner bounce back.  “He is one of the best minds in the industry and he has a
streaky investment style,” Roge said in a telephone interview.
Roge, who helps manage $200 million for individual investors,
said he’s has never owned Heebner’s fund because its performance
is too volatile for his clients.  Turnover Ratio  Heebner, who earned a master’s in business administration
from  Harvard University , and Kemp left Loomis Sayles in 1990 to
start Capital Growth Management LP, which advises four mutual
funds.  Heebner’s $1.6 billion  CGM Realty Fund (CGMRX)  ranked No. 1 in the
real estate category with a 17 percent average annual gain in
the past 10 years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
fund has benefited from owning stocks such as  Simon Property
Group Inc. (SPG) , the world’s largest real estate investment trust.
Shares of the Indianapolis-based company have soared six-fold
from their low point in March 2009.  Heebner, whose team includes two analysts and two traders,
had 21 stocks in CGM Focus as of March 31. His 496 percent
turnover ratio, a gauge of how much the portfolio changes in a
year, is six times greater than the industry average,
 Morningstar data show .  In addition to his holdings of banks and airlines,
Heebner’s largest positions as of the last quarter included
shares of Benton Harbor, Michigan-based appliance maker
Whirlpool Corp., and D.R. Horton Inc., a homebuilder based in
 Fort Worth , Texas.  Client Redemptions  Investors haven’t been waiting for Heebner’s performance to
rebound. CGM Focus Fund lost a net $2.6 billion to redemptions
since the end of 2008, Morningstar estimated.  Ronald Sugameli, chief investment officer for Wellesley,
Massachusetts-based Weston Financial Group Inc., where he
oversees $1.7 billion for wealthy clients, is among those who
dropped the fund.  “It was a combination of the underperformance and the high
volatility,” Sugameli said in a telephone interview.  The last time Heebner trailed the market for an extended
span was in the late 1990s when he refused to join the rush into
tech stocks. In the two years ended Dec. 31, 1999, CGM Focus
returned 12 percent, versus 56 percent for the S&P 500.  Then, as now, he went the opposite way from most investors.  “I am completely outside the mainstream,” Heebner said.
“I see the mainstream in the distance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  