-- Megaupload.com Founder Dotcom Wins N.Z. Warrant Dispute
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-06-28T06:42:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/megaupload-com-founder-dotcom-wins-n-z-warrant-dispute.html
Kim Dotcom, the Megaupload.com
website founder accused of orchestrating the biggest copyright
infringement conspiracy in U.S. history, had his home searched
illegally by police, a  New Zealand  judge ruled.  Helen Winkelmann , the chief justice of the High Court of
New Zealand, which is an intermediate court, today ruled
warrants used by police to search Dotcom’s rented mansion on the
outskirts of Auckland, and seize his property, including a pink
Cadillac, were overly broad and invalid.  “Police relied on invalid warrants when they searched the
properties and seized various items,” Winkelmann wrote in a 56-
page decision today. “The search and seizure was therefore
illegal.”  Winkelmann ordered the New Zealand’s Attorney General to
notify U.S. authorities of her decision and request the
voluntary return of copies of Dotcom’s hard drives that were
removed from New Zealand. She also ordered the return of all
 computer hardware  to Dotcom that was seized by police and
remains in New Zealand.  Dotcom, 38, was indicted in what U.S. prosecutors dubbed a
“Mega Conspiracy,” accusing his file-sharing website of
generating more than $175 million in criminal proceeds from the
exchange of pirated film, music, book and software files. He
faces as long as 20 years in prison for each of the racketeering
and money-laundering charges in the indictment.  Luxury Vehicles  An extradition hearing is scheduled for August in New
Zealand.  German-born Dotcom was arrested at his residence in late
January and spent four weeks in jail before being released to
await the extradition hearing. When police raided the mansion in
Coatesville, north of Auckland, they seized 18 luxury vehicles,
including a Rolls Royce Phantom Drophead Coupe and a 1959 pink
Cadillac.  The Dotcom mansion is valued at NZ$30 million ($23
million), according to an article on the stuff.co.nz website.
The property is also known as the “Chrisco mansion,” because
it was built by the founders of the Christmas hamper company.  Officials from the New Zealand Justice Department didn’t
immediately respond to a request for comment. New Zealand police
said in a statement the judgment is being reviewed and no
further comments will be made until discussions with prosecutors
are concluded.  New Zealand police sought and executed the search warrants
at the request of the U.S. and the FBI under a treaty allowing
for mutual cooperation in criminal investigations.  A broad category of items was covered and the FBI intended
to determine if they were relevant to the investigation
offshore, according to Winkelmann’s ruling.  The U.S. “is not entitled to irrelevant material seized
during the search,” Winkelmann wrote, noting computers and
mobile phones contain personal property including family photos.  The case is between Kim Dotcom and Attorney-General. Civ
2012-404-1928.  High Court  of New Zealand (Auckland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  