-- Legg Mason Earnings to Be Affected by $23 Million Expense
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-06-28T18:28:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/legg-mason-earnings-to-be-affected-by-23-million-expense.html
Legg Mason Inc. (LM) , the  money manager 
with 18 straight quarters of redemptions, said its earnings will
be affected by pretax charges related to two new investment
vehicles.  Expenses related to the initial public offering of Western
Asset Mortgage Capital Corp. real estate investment trust in May
and ClearBridge Energy MLP Total Return Fund Inc., a closed-end
fund that opened this month, will total about $23 million, the
Baltimore-based firm said today in a regulatory  filing . The
charges will affect results for the quarter ending June 30.  Chief Executive Officer  Mark Fetting  has cut jobs to
increase profitability and sought to improve performance at fund
units as he tries to end redemptions that started when returns
lagged behind those of peers in 2007 and 2008. Legg Mason has
completed a plan designed to save $130 million to $150 million a
year through a combination of job cuts and moving certain
technology functions to investment units.  The firm is expected to report  earnings  of 29 cents a share
for the current quarter, excluding some costs, according to the
average estimate of 13 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Legg Mason will also have a pretax non-operating charge
that had already been announced of about $69 million resulting
from extinguishing convertible notes that paid 2.5 percent and
were due in 2015, according to today’s filing.  In May, the firm said it would repurchase $1.25 billion of
convertible senior notes from private-equity firm KKR & Co. to
reduce its total debt. Legg Mason also said at that time it
would accelerate $155 million in stock repurchases and plan to
buy back an additional $1 billion in shares. Apart from
returning cash to shareholders, the refinancing of the notes
would help Legg Mason free up cash to make targeted
acquisitions, Fetting said last month.  Bank Loans  Legg Mason’s fiscal fourth-quarter  profit  increased 10
percent as expense cuts offset the impact of lower stock and
bond assets. Expenses fell 6.2 percent to $576 million in the
three months ended March 31 as Legg Mason completed its
restructuring plan. Costs from that plan fell to $1.9 million in
the quarter, compared to $15.7 million a year earlier.  The money manager obtained $1 billion of bank loans used in
part to pay off borrowings under its revolving  credit line ,
according to today’s filing. The new debt consists of a $500
million  term loan  and $500 million revolver, both of which
mature in June 2017.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  