-- Egypt’s Mursi Taking Presidential Oath in Highest Court
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-07-05T07:49:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/egypt-s-mursi-taking-presidential-oath-in-highest-court.html
Omar el-Guindy held a sweat-stained
dossier of medical reports under his arm as he waited outside
the presidential palace, hoping to petition  Egypt ’s first
civilian president to help his eight-year-old son in his
struggle to stay alive.  Ahead of him in the Cairo neighborhood of Heliopolis were
tens of others, each with their own set of problems, as they
gathered in front of the iron gates to present petitions to
Mohamed Mursi, the country’s first democratically elected
Islamist president, a man they hoped would take action after
they voted him into office. The scene over the past week, which
included protestors pounding on the gates, would have been
unthinkable under Mursi’s ousted predecessor and reflected the
expectations of the population and the response to the casual,
responsive, image he projected during his campaign.  “There’s no one else who can help,” said el-Guindy who,
on a monthly salary of 850 Egyptian pounds ($140), can’t afford
the thousands of pounds needed for his son’s treatment for
 kidney failure  at a quality hospital. “I’ve borrowed from
everyone, sold everything I have. There’s nothing left for me to
do.”  Mursi, 60, a U.S.-trained engineer who was briefly
imprisoned under his predecessor  Hosni Mubarak , has pledged to
meet the needs of Egypt’s poor and bring an end to decades of
neglect and more than a year of unrest. In the 17 months since
Mubarak was pushed from power, unemployment has climbed, foreign
reserves have been drained by more than a half and about 50
percent of the government budget is already earmarked for wages
and debt servicing.  Slender Lead  A member of the Muslim Brotherhood, Mursi edged out his
rival to claim the presidency with the backing of about 25
percent of Egypt’s registered voters. In his first week, Mursi
has raised public-sector wages and vowed to improve the lot of
the country’s 82 million citizens.  “If a miracle happens, and the man manages to fulfil some
of his promises, then he’s entered history through its widest
doors,” commentator Fahmy Howeidy wrote in the independent al-
Shorouk newspaper on July 3. “We need a president who can shock
us with his openness and boldness in facing challenges, not
someone who’s trying to impress us with his kindness and
emotional messages.”  Perhaps the most telling example of Mursi’s style of
governance is that a line formed at all outside the presidential
palace. Under Mubarak, whose picture adorned government offices
and who was rarely seen in public, that would have been
unthinkable.  Pharaoh’s Legacy  “Why shouldn’t we ask to see him?” asked Adel Mohamed, a
ceramic factory worker who was among those gathered at the
palace gates. “We elected him to help us after the pharaoh left
us with a nation of chaos.”  Since the uprising against Mubarak began in January 2011,
the Arab world’s most populous nation has endured a turbulent
transition that has compounded decades of inequality. Demands
from voters in last month’s election include the creation of new
jobs and housing, the introduction of higher wages, the
revamping of dilapidated health and education systems and an end
to corruption and cronyism.  For his first 100 days, Mursi vowed to tackle some chronic
problems affecting Egypt’s cities, including traffic, garbage
and shortages of subsidized bread. He also raised the salaries
of state administrative workers by 15 percent, ordered a pension
increase for the military by the same amount and told the heads
of the governorates that the measure of their performance was
based on the feedback of those living in their regions.  Broad Spectrum  He is now looking to form a coalition government including
a woman, a Coptic Christian and a member of the youth activist
movement that took part in the uprising as deputies. The
Cabinet, he and his advisers have said, will include ministers
drawn from a wide political spectrum.  After narrowly winning the race against Mubarak’s last
premier, Ahmed Shafik, Mursi needs allies. The Islamist took
slightly more than 50 percent of the vote, with about half of
the eligible voters staying away from the polls. Many of the
secularists, Christians and revolutionary youth groups who sided
with Mursi said they did so more to block Shafik from office
than to endorse a member of the Brotherhood.  Even before he was sworn into office, Mursi tried to
harness public support by casting himself as the “revolutionary
candidate” and a servant of the people. A day before his June
30 inauguration, he appeared in Cairo’s  Tahrir Square , the
center of the revolt last year, to give his first public speech
since being declared the official winner. In front of a crowd of
thousands, he threw open his jacket to show he wasn’t wearing a
bulletproof vest.  Military Influence  Apart from the public, Mursi must also deal with the
military, which took interim power after Mubarak was toppled.
Even as the presidential election drew to a close last month,
the Islamist-dominated parliament was dissolved by court order
and the ruling generals issued a decree that boosted their power
at the expense of the presidency.  Mursi’s decision to take the oath of office before the
constitutional court instead of -- as the Brotherhood had
insisted -- the parliament, raised red flags for the youth
groups that had opposed military rule. Asmaa Mahfouz, an
activist who met with Mursi after he won the election, said they
urged him to reject the decree.  Presidential Website  “As long as he cast himself as the candidate of the
revolution, then he must act accordingly,” she said.  Mursi ordered that a special body be set up to hear and
follow up on the grievances being raised by citizens, including
those protesting outside the place, his spokesman, Yasser Ali,
was cited as saying by the state-run Middle East  News Agency 
yesterday. He also said a presidency website would established
that would include a link allowing people to raise their
concerns or problems.  The new president also ordered a committee be set up to
check on the welfare of the thousands detained by the military
following the uprising, as well as those still in custody, the
state-run Al-Ahram reported today.  ‘Dignity and Rights’  “This revolution was supposed to restore our dignity and
rights,” said el-Guindy outside the palace. “I’m here to get
that dignity and those rights -- not for me, but for my son.”  Mursi has yet to name a Cabinet, working instead with the
same interim government that the Brotherhood’s Freedom and
Justice Party criticized for its handling of the economy. A $3.2
billion International Monetary Fund loan that was re-applied for
in January is still unapproved, with the IMF saying it is
waiting for political consensus to emerge on the deal.  “It’s difficult to imagine what a government can do in the
next 12 months other than generate sufficient external support
to plug the gap,” said Crispin Hawes, head of the Mideast and
North Africa program at Eurasia Group consultancy. It is
“impossible for an Egyptian politician to stand up in public
and say, ‘This economy cannot support its population,’ which, I
think, is the unfortunate reality.”  Mursi can rely on support from the Brotherhood, an
organization long known for its ability to mobilize resources
and deliver services when the Mubarak administration fell short.
Several people including Omayma Ibrahim, a teacher who lives in
the southern city of Assiut, said the group was already working
to ensure the distribution of subsidized bread.  Ibrahim said in a phone interview she saw Brotherhood
members telling one baker that they would buy his entire stock
and ensure it reaches the market at the official price.
Egyptians often complain that the bread they buy is substandard,
claiming bakeries use only a fraction of their flour for
subsidized loaves and then resell full-sized loaves to other
shops at higher prices.  “They’re doing what the government should be doing,”
Ibrahim said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  