-- Egypt Is ‘Still Looking’ at IMF Loan, Mursi Spokesman Says
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2012-06-28T11:40:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/egypt-is-still-looking-at-imf-loan-mursi-spokesman-says-1-.html
Egypt  will push ahead with talks on
a $3.2 billion International Monetary Fund loan after Mohamed Mursi takes over as president in a country suffering from its
worst economic slowdown in decades.  Mursi is “still looking” at the possibility of securing
the loan and “there will be further discussions,” his
spokesman, Yasser Ali, said by phone. He noted that the IMF had
earlier stipulated it wanted to see broad political consensus on
an economic program before the funds are approved.  Advocates of an IMF accord say it’s key to restoring
confidence in Egypt’s economy. Last year’s uprising deterred
investors and tourists, and the central bank has spent more than
half its foreign reserves since then as it sought to defend the
currency. The loan, requested by Egypt’s government in January,
has been delayed by political tensions between the military and
elected politicians that may persist after Mursi, the Muslim
Brotherhood’s candidate for president, takes office.  The ruling army council, due to hand over to Mursi within
the next two days, moved to bolster its powers hours after polls
in the presidential runoff closed on June 17, with a decree
widening the council’s powers at the expense of the presidency.  ‘More Urgent’  The move came days after parliament was dissolved by the
country’s top court. It was dubbed a “coup” by the Brotherhood
and youth activists, who have called for a rally in Cairo’s
 Tahrir Square  tomorrow to demand the army reverse course and
hand over full powers to the incoming president.  The power struggle “can only make negotiations more
complicated because ultimately the issue of the IMF loan is one
of ownership of a policy that could be difficult to sell to the
Egyptian people,” said Gabriel Sterne, London-based economist
at Exotix Holdings Ltd. The need to reach a decision is becoming
“more and more urgent due to the situation of the balance of
payment and the foreign reserves,” he said.  While Egypt’s currency reserves have risen since March, at
$15.5 billion they are still less than half the level of
February 2011, when  Hosni Mubarak  was forced from power. The
current-account gap widened to $6.4 billion in the nine months
through March, from $4.7 billion a year earlier, as tourism
revenue and foreign investment shrank.  Markets Rally  Egypt’s financial markets have welcomed Mursi’s victory,
which averted the risk of renewed protests and violence if his
rival, former premier and air force commander Ahmed Shafik, had
been declared the winner.  The benchmark  EGX-30 stock index  gained 0.6 percent at 1
p.m. in Cairo, extending its gain this week to 15 percent.
Yields on its benchmark dollar bonds have dropped more than 1.2
percentage points, to about 6.6 percent. Default risk declined
12 basis points to 638, though Egypt remains among the world’s
10 riskiest credits, according to data provider CMA.  Mursi is working to form a national unity administration,
and hasn’t named any appointees yet. He has pledged to include a
woman, a Christian and a member of the youth activist groups
among his deputies, as he seeks to allay concerns that he will
advance an Islamist agenda.  Field Marshal Mohamed Hussein Tantawi, the head of the
ruling army council, will take the post of defense minister,
Major-General Mohamed el-Assar, a council member, told CBC
television. Tantawi held the same job under Mubarak.  Ali said that an announcement about where Mursi would take
the oath of office was due today. His campaign has said he wants
to take the oath before the now-disbanded parliament. An
alternative is the constitutional court, which ordered the
dissolution.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  