-- Telefonica Risks Getting Hit by Debt Costs on Spain Ties
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-06-29T06:58:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/telefonica-risks-getting-hit-by-debt-costs-on-spain-ties.html
Telefonica SA (TEF)  faces the prospect of
rising funding costs because of ties to crisis-ravaged Spain,
putting more pressure on a phone company grappling with a 57
billion-euro ($71 billion) debt burden and falling profit.  Europe ’s debt crisis, increasing unemployment and slowing
economy have brought Spain’s credit rating within a hair of junk
status. A further downgrade could trigger another cut for
Madrid-based Telefonica too, said Carlos Winzer, senior vice
president at Moody’s Investors Service.  Telefonica’s annual interest cost may rise by more than 500
million euros in that case, Winzer said, wiping out a larger
chunk of profit at a company that’s already forecast to continue
reporting  shrinking earnings  and stagnating sales. Further
pressure on profit, in turn, would hurt Chief Executive Officer
Cesar Alierta’s efforts to reduce the company’s debt.  “Capital markets still perceive Telefonica as a Spanish
company holding the sovereign risk,” said Winzer, who is based
in  Madrid . “The exposure to  Spain  remains substantial in terms
of cash flow, while its tight relationship with local banks
through loans and customers bills doesn’t help either.”  Telefonica’s financing costs would increase by about 20 to
50 basis points for every level the carrier’s rating is
downgraded, Winzer said. That means the  interest rate  the
carrier pays could jump from about 5 percent to more than 6
percent, he said. Its annual net financing costs would rise to
about 3.4 billion euros by the end of next year, up from 2.9
billion euros in 2011, said Winzer, who has been the lead
Telefonica analyst at Moody’s for 20 years.  Plunging Ratings  As Spain struggles to reduce its  budget deficit  through
austerity measures, Moody’s this month cut its rating three
levels to Baa3, one step above junk. This week, the ratings
company downgraded 28 Spanish banks because of the country’s
sovereign debt and souring real estate loans.  Today, euro-area leaders agreed to ease repayment rules for
emergency loans to Spanish banks. They dropped the requirement
that governments get preferred creditor status on crisis loans
to the country’s banks and opened the door to recapitalizing
banks directly with bailout funds once Europe sets up a single
banking supervisor.  On June 20, Moody’s lowered Telefonica’s long-term debt
rating one level to Baa2, the second-lowest investment grade,
and said it may be reduced further as Spanish consumers scale
back spending and the government’s credit profile worsens.
Standard & Poor’s cut Telefonica’s rating last month to BBB, the
equivalent of the Moody’s grade.  ‘Serious Risk’  “Spain will be downgraded by the end of the year unless
there is a big European intervention and so corporate bonds will
suffer, especially Telefonica’s,” Nicolas Gouju, who helps
manage 80 billion euros at Groupama Asset Management SA in
Paris, which reduced its holding of Telefonica bonds in April
because of the company’s exposure to Spain.  A downgrade could make it too costly for Telefonica to
continue issuing bonds, “which could put the mid-term  financial
stability  of the company at serious risk,” Gouju said.  A Telefonica official declined to comment.  The cost of insuring Telefonica bonds against default using
 credit derivatives  has soared more than 80 percent to 567 basis
points in the quarter. While that’s similar to  Telecom Italia
SpA (TIT) ’s 557 basis points, it’s more than double the 161 basis
points it costs to cover  France Telecom SA (FTE)  debt and the 108
basis points on  Deutsche Telekom AG. (DTE)   ’Vulnerable’ Position  “Telefonica’s credit position is more worrisome and
vulnerable than that of peers such as Deutsche Telekom or  France
Telecom ,” Winzer said.  Telefonica’s 2 billion euros of 5.431 percent notes
maturing 2014 yield 574 basis points more than similar maturity
government debt, up from 289 basis points on March 30. Spreads
on its 1 billion euros of 3.661 percent debt due 2017 are 671
basis points, compared with 339 basis points at the end of the
first quarter.  Spreads on Deutsche Telekom’s 2 billion euros of 6 percent
bonds due 2017 were 144 basis points -- 84 basis points above
the benchmark swap rate -- and have averaged 151 basis points
this quarter. The bonds were issued at 265 basis points more
than the swap rate, data compiled by Bloomberg shows.  Selling Assets  Amid declining profitability and growing debt, Telefonica
is struggling to soothe bondholders and equity  investors . The
former Spanish monopoly has cut its dividend while it tries to
dispose of assets to help cut debt.  Telefonica’s debt pile ballooned because of ambitious
expansion. Alierta spent $85 billion on acquisitions since
taking over in 2000, transforming Telefonica into a global
telecommunications company with presence in 25 countries.  As Alierta now seeks to unwind some of his acquisitions,
Telefonica has an internal target to cut its debt by a range of
6 billion euros to 8 billion euros this year, a person familiar
with the matter said this month.  The company is considering an initial public offering of a
20 percent stake in the O2 Germany unit, aiming to raise as much
as 2 billion euros, people familiar with the matter have said.
This month, Telefonica said it would sell half of its stake in
China Unicom ( Hong Kong ) Ltd., paring its seven-year venture
into one of the fastest-growing wireless markets.  Even with its international assets, Telefonica relies on
 cash flow  from Spain to help pay for its debt costs, Winzer
said. It needs to spend much of the cash it generates in each
market on expenses such as network improvements and advertising.  “Telefonica’s geographic diversification is very
significant both in terms of revenues and operating income
before depreciation and amortization, but it’s not so much in
terms of cash flows,” Winzer said. “The company operates in a
highly capital-intensive industry, which makes it hard to
repatriate any cash flow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  