-- Emerging Stocks Decline as China Index Erases 2012 Gain
-- B y   I a n   C .   S a y s o n   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2012-06-28T22:10:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/emerging-stocks-decline-as-china-index-erases-2012-gain.html
Developing-nation stocks fell as the
Shanghai Composite Index erased its 2012 advance on concern
China’s economic slowdown will choke earnings and as a two-day
summit for European Union leaders started in Brussels.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  declined 0.7 percent to
906.71 by the close in New York, snapping two days of gains. The
Shanghai Composite fell 1 percent, the seventh straight slide in
its longest losing streak in 13 months.  OGX Petroleo e Gas
Participacoes SA  and MMX Mineracao e Metalicos SA slumped to
lead decliners on Brazil’s Bovespa index. Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF) 
retreated 1.7 percent, the most since May 23.  China’s curbs on the housing market will remain “tight”
this year, preventing transactions and prices from rebounding
significantly, Shui On Land Ltd. Chief Executive Freddy Lee said
yesterday. European Union leaders approved a 120 billion-euro
($149 billion) plan to promote growth in the 27-nation bloc. The
growth plan came before leaders took on the thornier measures to
prevent the euro area’s financial crisis from swamping Spain and
Italy.  “The global markets backdrop remains quite challenging,
given the persisting risks on the euro zone crisis front, as
well as rising concerns that the global growth outlook may have
to be substantially downgraded again,”  Benoit Anne , head of
 emerging-markets  strategy at  Societe Generale  in London, wrote
in an e-mailed note to clients.  German  unemployment  climbed in June for the fourth month
this year, the Bundesbank said.  Jobless claims  in the U.S. last
week hovered near the highest level of the year, showing little
improvement in the labor market of the world’s largest economy.
Crude for August delivery declined 3.1 percent on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  to the lowest settlement since October.  OGX, MMX  The MSCI gauge measure has plunged 13 percent this quarter,
heading for the biggest drop since the three months to
September, amid concerns Europe’s debt crisis is worsening and
China’s economic slowdown is deepening.  The IShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the  most-traded ETF  tracking developing-nation shares,
slumped 0.5 percent to $37.47.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets  ETF
Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, rose 0.8 percent to 28.65.  The Micex Index tumbled 1.7 percent in Moscow as OAO
Gazprom, Russia’s natural-gas export monopoly, declined 2.1
percent.  The Bovespa slid 0.9 percent, with OGX, the Brazilian  oil
company  led by billionaire  Eike Batista , tumbling 19 percent.
The company cut production targets at its first two  oil wells  by
as much as 75 percent this week. Iron-ore producer MMX
Mineracao, another Batista company, sank 17 percent, the most
since November 2008, and was the second-biggest loser on the
MSCI emerging-markets gauge.  China, South Africa  The Shanghai Composite has retreated 0.2 percent so far
this year. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese
companies listed in Hong Kong sank 1.3 percent to the lowest
close since Oct. 21.  The  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH)  lost 1.5 percent in
Johannesburg as  Naspers Ltd. (NPN) , Africa’s largest media business,
fell 4.9 percent, heading for its steepest decline since May 21.  The  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  retreated 0.6 percent in Turkey.
 Eregli Demir & Celik Fabrikalari TAS (EREGL) , Turkey’s biggest flat
steelmaker tumbled 7 percent after Goldman Sachs Inc. rated it
sell. The  WIG20 Index (WIG20)  fell 1.7 percent in Warsaw.  Felda Global Ventures  Holdings (FGV)  Bhd. jumped 16 percent in
its Malaysian debut after a $3.3 billion initial share sale.  The Malaysian state-controlled company, the world’s third-
largest oil-palm plantation operator, is headed for the best
first day of all initial public offerings above $500 million
globally this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose three points, or 0.03 percentage
point, to 389 basis points, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI Global
Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Webb  in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  