-- Eminent Domain Is Bad Ploy for Underwater Mortgages
-- B y   S t e v e n   G r e e n h u t
-- 2012-06-28T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/eminent-domain-is-bad-ploy-for-underwater-mortgages.html
Officials in San Bernardino County,
 California , believe they have figured out a clever  way to solve 
the county’s, and possibly the nation’s, housing problems.  Detailed by a Cornell University  professor , and pitched by
influential San Francisco investors who stand to make a fortune
from it, this new idea is based on one of the oldest concepts:
the taking of other people’s property.  County officials, joined by the cities of Ontario and
Fontana, are considering using an expansive interpretation of
 eminent domain  -- typically used to acquire real property to
build public works -- to seize the mortgages, not the real
property, of those homeowners who owe more than their homes are
worth.  The funds would be provided by private investors, who would
pay the holders of the mortgages “fair market value” and then
write new ones for the homeowners based on much lower principal
amounts, reflecting the new depressed values of the homes. The
firm behind this complex plan,  Mortgage Resolution Partners , may
be in the running to acquire vast numbers of mortgages at
discounted rates. Local officials would have, theoretically,
solved their local housing problems. Homeowners would stay in
their homes and have much lower mortgages.  Advocates tout it as a win-win solution, but the holders of
the mortgages must give up their assets and accept whatever
value the governmental authority assigns to their notes.  Wholesale Price  The “fair market value” probably wouldn’t be based on an
expected sales price of the home, but on a wholesale value that
would be at least 20 percent lower than that, said Mark Dowling,
the chief executive officer of the Inland Valleys Association of
Realtors. (The value would probably be based on the fair market
value of the mortgage -- the home price minus many transaction
costs -- and thus far lower than the fair market value of the
home itself.)  In such a deal, the mortgages’ owners -- bondholders,
banks, individuals -- would be hard-pressed to challenge the
valuation. Granted, the current owners -- bondholders, for
example -- may not be able to collect the full amount owed to
them, but they should be free to pursue repayment without being
forced to accept a sum lower than what they might have expected
to receive.  Wall Street’s largest lobbying group, the Securities
Industry and Financial Markets Association, has  weighed in 
against the idea, citing constitutional issues, Bloomberg
Businessweek reported.  This complex plan should have been nothing more than a
thought experiment in a college economics class except that
Mortgage Resolution Partners took the idea to the San Bernardino
County Board of Supervisors, which this month unanimously voted
to create a “joint-powers authority” to pursue the plan.  Officials say the authority was formed only to explore this
idea, but as the  Inland Valleys Association  of Realtors pointed
out in a  letter  to the county board of supervisors: “Currently,
the JPA agreement does not require partner members to approve
any JPA programs. Instead, the board is only required to seek
approval for its budget from the participating local governments
if those governments are asked to contribute funds.”  So the county has spawned a new governmental agency, with
few limits on its power and little direction from elected
officials. The county will have no oversight of it unless that
agency comes to the taxpayers for money -- unlikely, given that
investors will pay for this project.  Abandoned Subdivisions  San Bernardino County was hit hard by the foreclosure
crisis. Larger in land area than nine states and with a
population of 2 million, the county starts about 40 miles east
of  Los Angeles  and ends at the  Nevada  border.  During the real-estate boom, people looking to buy homes
headed inland because it was far more affordable than coastal
regions. When the housing bubble popped, the area was left with
abandoned and half-built subdivisions. In many places, prices
fell by two-thirds or more from the market peak.  The county’s foreclosure rate is one in 179 houses, which
is 3 1/2 times the national average, according to  published
reports . But the eminent-domain idea deals with only 20 percent
of the county’s estimated 150,000 underwater households. To
avoid tangling with the federal government through  Fannie Mae 
and  Freddie Mac , or with politically influential banks, the plan
targets only the holders of those bundled, privately held
securitized mortgages. This is about acquiring properties on the
cheap rather than addressing the main problem.  There would surely be unintended consequences. Grabbing
private mortgages could lead to a widespread reluctance by
private firms to lend money in the county -- or at least an
increase in the cost of lending in that area. That would be a
particular problem given that an obstacle to a revived housing
market, especially in low-income, high-unemployment areas, is
the inability of homebuyers to qualify for mortgages.  As Gideon Kanner, professor emeritus at Loyola Law School,
 argues , “If you make a reduction in loan balance available,
whether by eminent domain or otherwise, these people will be
provided with a powerful incentive to stop making payments on
their mortgages, hoping to get bailed out by the government.”  The deal could, then, have the opposite result of what is
promised.  However it shakes out, the plan would create perverse
incentives. Mainly, it seems like a way for big players to
muscle out the smaller investors who now are competing for short
sales and foreclosures. (I may qualify as one of them, because I
own an investment property in San Bernardino County.)  There is increased evidence that the market is fixing
itself.  Foreclosure rates  are down almost 43 percent in
California and almost 60 percent in Nevada since the peak of the
market, according to  CoreLogic (CLGX) , the mortgage data company.
Although the  number  of foreclosures was up in San Bernardino
County in May over the previous month, it has been little
changed since last year, and prices have risen  5.7 percent  there
in 2012.  Housing Revival  The  Orange County Register   reported  on a feeding frenzy of
buyers for foreclosures in nearby Orange County. That wealthy
coastal area is a far cry from pollution-choked San Bernardino.
But  Southern California  coastal trends always move inland. Even
 Arizona ,  ground zero  for the foreclosure crisis, is undergoing a
homebuilding revival, as a recent article in Bloomberg News
detailed. Many investors have been raising money to buy up
foreclosed single-family properties to turn them into rentals,
while awaiting a stronger housing market.  Rather than advancing a public good, the main beneficiary
of this idea would be those private interests most adept at
manipulating the government. Policy makers should reject this
abuse of property rights and allow the housing market to do what
it already is doing -- recover on its own.  (Steven Greenhut is vice president of journalism at the
Franklin Center for Government and Public Integrity. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why  John Roberts saved
Obamacare  and why  Mexico ’s next president  must combat its
economic cartels ; Stephen L. Carter in praise of  Supreme Court
secrecy ;  Noah Feldman  on  Roberts’s restraint ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on
 misunderstanding the court ’s decision;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on
whether  women can have it all ; William Pesek on  Myanmar’s
economic development ;  Jonathan Weil  on how the  Bank for
International Settlements   sees the industry .  To contact the writer of this article:
 Steven Greenhut  in Sacramento at
 steven.greenhut@franklincenterhq.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 