-- Emirates A380s Said to Be First Used as U.S. Bond Collate
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2012-06-28T23:41:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/emirates-a380s-said-to-be-first-used-as-u-s-bond-collate.html
Four Airbus SAS A380 passenger jets
being leased to Emirates Airline are the first of their kind to
be used as collateral in a U.S. corporate bond offering,
according to a person familiar with the transaction.  Doric Nimrod Air Finance Alpha Ltd., a leasing company,
sold $587.5 million of debt secured by four A380s to be operated
by Dubai-based Emirates, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The two-part offering was the first sale of dollar-
denominated bonds backed by a non-U.S. airline’s planes, said
the person, who wasn’t authorized to discuss the deal publicly.  Emirates is the biggest customer for the A380, the world’s
largest passenger aircraft. With just 75 in service, investors
needed reassurance that the plane will be valuable collateral in
case of a default, said Mark Lapidus, managing director of Doric
Asset Finance Ltd., the issuer’s London-based parent.  “There were lots of discussions to convince the investor
universe that this aircraft is an important part of the
landscape and will remain so going forward,” Lapidus said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “We’re certainly going to look
to do more of these transactions ourselves and others may well
follow us.”  The sale consisted of $433.8 million of 5.125 percent,
Class A notes with a final maturity of November 2024 and $153.7
million of 6.5 percent, Class B securities with a maturity of
May 2021, Bloomberg data show. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. managed
the offering.  With European financial markets roiled by the euro region’s
debt crisis, airlines around the world may seek to emulate the
Doric offering, Lapidus said.  “Non-U.S. airlines who had previously looked at the U.S.
capital markets with trepidation will look much more warmly at
that market after this transaction,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in  New York  at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  