-- Energy Companies Jump After Petronas Deal for Progress
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2012-06-28T20:46:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/energy-companies-jump-after-petronas-deal-for-progress.html
Canadian energy stocks surged after
Petroliam Nasional Bhd agreed to buy Calgary-based oil and
natural gas producer  Progress Energy Resources Corp. (PRQ)  for C$4.8
billion ($4.65 billion) in cash.  State-owned Petronas offered to pay Progress shareholders
C$20.45 a share, 77 percent more than the company’s closing
share price yesterday in Toronto in a deal valued at about C$5.5
billion, including debentures.  “It’s really ignited interest in the natural-gas space,”
Eric Nuttall, who manages C$90 million at Toronto-based  Sprott
Inc. (SII) ’s Energy Fund, said today in a telephone interview. “It’s
a natural tendency post-large announcement to play the ‘who’s
next’ game.”  Advantage Oil and Gas Ltd.  rose 5.3 percent to close at
C$2.96 in Toronto,  Celtic Exploration Ltd. (CLT)  rose 7.2 percent to
C$13.72 while  ARC Resources Ltd. (ARX)  rose 8.7 percent to C$22.19.
ARC was raised to buy from hold by Roger Serin, an analyst at TD
Newcrest Inc.  Birchcliff Energy Ltd. (BIR)  closed 2.1 percent lower at C$5.19
after rising earlier in the day.  “Natural gas has been under a great deal of pressure as
the gas price has been hitting new lows,” Rick Hutcheon,
president of Toronto-based RKH Financial, said in a phone
interview. “That has spooked a lot of investors and it’s forced
the valuations down to levels that a number of offshore foreign
energy companies are going to look at and think, ‘Boy, these
things are pretty cheap and maybe it’s not a bad idea to pick up
some of these things now.’”  Natural gas prices dropped in  New York  after the U.S.
Energy Department said U.S. stockpiles increased. The commodity
fell 2.7 percent to $2.722 per million British thermal units on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The futures are down 8.9
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in New York at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  