-- HCA Gains While Insurers Fall on Health Law Ruling
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-06-28T20:24:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/tenet-gains-while-insurers-fall-on-health-law-ruling.html
Hospital companies led by  HCA
Holdings Inc. (HCA)  jumped in  New York  trading after the  Supreme Court 
upheld a U.S. health-care law that may arrest a rising tide of
uninsured patients unable to pay their medical bills.  Medicaid insurers also rose, paced by  Molina Healthcare
Inc. (MOH) , after the court mostly supported a rule expanding the U.S.
health plan for the poor. Commercial carriers such as  WellPoint
Inc. (WLP)  fell in the face of the law’s new regulations.  The court, voting 5-4, largely left intact the Affordable
Care Act’s transformation of the U.S. health system, saying
Congress has the power to make Americans get insurance or pay a
penalty. They also let stand a plan to expand Medicaid by about
16 million people, though the justices limited the power to
punish states that don’t comply.  “No one in the hospital land really expected the entire
law to be upheld,” said  Sheryl Skolnick , a health-care analyst
at CRT Capital Markets in Stamford,  Connecticut , in a telephone
interview. “They expected something in the muddy middle. And
with surprise, you get big swings.”  HCA, the biggest U.S. hospital chain, rose 11 percent to
$29.47 at the close of trading.  Tenet Healthcare Corp. (THC) , the
third-biggest chain, increased 5.4 percent to $5.25, while Long
Beach, California-based Molina rose 8.6 percent to $23.16.
Indianapolis-based WellPoint, the second-largest U.S. health
insurer, dropped 5.2 percent to $65.90.  HCA, Molina  HCA and Tenet have hospitals in urban areas with large
numbers of uninsured patients, making the Dallas-based chain a
potential winner from the law’s coverage expansion, Skolnick
said in a telephone interview. Likewise, Molina and fellow
insurers specializing in Medicaid are in line to win business
from state governments expected to contract out much of that
program’s new enrollees.  While the court’s opinion closes one chapter in the debate,
it isn’t over, said Daniel Mendelson, chief executive officer of
Avalere Health LLC, a Washington-based research and consulting
company. Republicans have vowed to kill the overhaul if they win
the White House and Congress in the November elections.  The ruling “removes an overhang” for health-care stocks,
Mendelson said in a telephone interview. “Getting some more
certainty around the fate of the industry should be a positive.
It would be more of a positive if you didn’t have one of the
parties vowing to repeal.”  The justices’ Medicaid decision may delay the growth of the
program in some states, and with it the opportunity for some
carriers, said David Cordani, chief executive officer at
Bloomfield, Connecticut-based plan  Cigna Corp. (CI)   Cigna’s ‘Clarity’  Still, the decision adds “another chapter of clarity,” he
said in a telephone interview. “And what I wanted more than
anything was clarity.”  The number of people without coverage swelled to 49.9
million in 2010, or 16 percent of the  U.S. population , from 36.6
million, or 13 percent, in 2000, according to  Census Bureau 
data. The percentage of people covered through their jobs
decreased to 55.3 percent from 65.1 percent in 2000.  The law may add coverage for 32 million people by decade’s
end, according to Congressional Budget Office estimates.  WellPoint, the biggest seller of small-business and
individual plans, will win new customers from the law. It also
faces regulations that may cut into profit margins, such as a
provision banning insurers from discriminating against people
with preexisting conditions.  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , the
biggest U.S. insurer, rose less than 1 percent to $59.60.  Taxing Power  While the federal government “does not have the power to
order people to buy health insurance,” Chief Justice  John Roberts  wrote in his opinion today, “the federal government
does have the power to impose a tax on those without health
insurance.” The law “is therefore constitutional because it
can reasonably be read as a tax.”  “The decision essentially maintains the status quo,” said
Carl McDonald, a Citigroup analyst in New York, in a note to
clients. “We can argue the stocks might be off a little, since
there was hope the court would eliminate some of the negative
aspects of health reform. At the same time, it’s easy enough to
argue for the stocks to rise a bit now that we’ve gotten through
this significant overhang.”  Industry’s Impact  The health-care sector makes up more 18 percent of the U.S.
 economy , giving the decision wide-ranging implications.  “WellPoint will continue to move forward with our efforts
to improve our nation’s health-care delivery system,” said
Kristin Binns, a company spokeswoman, in an e-mail. “The road
to implementing health-care reform will be a challenge, however,
we look forward to working constructively with policymakers and
other key stakeholders.”  Humana Inc. (HUM) , the second-biggest provider of Medicare and
Medicaid coverage after UnitedHealth, said some of the expanded
benefits for the uninsured “threaten to undermine the goals of
access and affordability” unless they’re phased in gradually.
The provisions are now due to take effect in 2014.  “Costs will jump unfairly on small businesses and many
seniors” due to the law’s tax on insurance companies that is
meant to help pay expanding coverage, the Louisville, Kentucky-
based company said in a  statement .  The Standard & Poor’s Health-Care Index declined less than
1 percent, with drugmaker stocks mostly unchanged.  New Taxes  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ,  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and  Amgen Inc. (AMGN) , leading
makers of drugs and medical products, will face $47 billion in
taxes and fees under the law.  Drugmakers agreed to provide about $100 billion over 10
years in taxes and discounts on therapies as part of a deal to
avoid even deeper price cuts in government health care programs.
Device makers also face $20 billion in new taxes.  The euphoria for hospital stocks and other companies could
be short lived, said Skolnick. U.S. lawmakers still have to find
ways to fund budget deficits in the Medicare program, the
country’s health insurance for the elderly and disabled. A new
round of policy making means uncertainty and potentially more
taxes for drugmakers as well, said Christie Bloomquist, a
partner with the law firm  Hogan Lovells  in Washington.  “We’ve got the Supreme Court ruling, but we’ve also got a
busy year of ongoing discussions about the debt ceiling,”
Bloomquist said in a telephone interview. Policies the  drug
industry  put to rest in the health-law debate, like deeper
discounts for Medicare and Medicaid, could resurface.  The justices’ ruling was a defeat for Republicans, who have
attacked the insurance-buying mandate as unconstitutional. That
was a political reversal for the party, which originated the
idea of a mandate in the 1990s as an alternative to then-
President  Bill Clinton ’s health-care bill.  House Republicans 
have scheduled a vote for the week of July 9 to repeal the law.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  