-- Lenovo Says Emerging-Market Sales Fuel Industry-Beating Growth
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-28T03:43:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/lenovo-says-emerging-market-sales-fuel-industry-beating-growth.html
Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , the world’s
second-largest computer maker, said its sales to first-time
buyers in emerging markets including  Brazil  and  India  will drive
growth that’s faster than the industry average.  “We believe that we will grow at a significant premium to
market, as we have done before,” Milko Van Duijl, Lenovo’s
president for the Asia-Pacific and  Latin America , said in an
interview today in Hong Kong.  Global computer shipments will rise 5 percent in 2012,
“a challenging year” because of the debt crisis in the euro-
area economy, researcher IDC forecast this month. Lenovo sold
more computers to businesses in the U.S. and emerging markets
last year, defying a slump that hurt industry sales, including
those at bigger rival Hewlett-Packard Co.  “The goal is indeed realistic given Lenovo’s exposure to
the fast growing PC market in the emerging economies such as
India, Brazil and  Russia ,” said Jiong Shao, head of  China 
strategy at Macquarie Securities Ltd in Hong Kong. “Lenovo
management has been executing well over the last couple of years
and the company has outgrown the overall PC market for several
quarters in a row.” He rates the shares outperform, the
equivalent of buy.  The computer maker rose 0.5 percent to HK$6.56 at 11:26 a.m.
in  Hong Kong  trading. The shares have gained 27 percent this
year, compared with a 4 percent advance in the benchmark  Hang
Seng Index .  Guidance  Lenovo dropped the most in more than two years June 21
after a report in the China Times said the company had told
suppliers that shipments would be slower than expected.  Van Duijl today repeated Lenovo’s June 21 response that the
company hasn’t issued suppliers any new guidance.  “We never issued a statement that we would come off our
numbers,” Van Duijl said today. “We quickly came out with a
corrective statement. We did not issue anything. We believe in
the growth.”  Lenovo got 16 percent of its $21.6 billion in total sales
from  emerging markets  last year, 42 percent from mature markets
including the U.S. and Europe and 42 percent from China,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Next year, computer shipments will gain 8.1 percent to
413.6 million units, from the 382.6 million units estimated for
this year, IDC forecasts. In emerging markets, computer
shipments will gain 7.4 percent this year and 9.1 percent next
year, IDC forecasts.  Brazil, India  Lenovo has “tremendous growth” opportunities in emerging
 markets  such as Brazil and the rest of Latin America, where
there are still many first-time computer buyers, Van Duijl said.
He didn’t offer any specific forecast for computer shipments in
today’s interview.  Lenovo will be “maniacally” focused on growth in Brazil
and is looking at all options for growth including both
“organic and inorganic,” Van Duijl said.  “There are troubles, problems in  Europe , we all see
that,” Van Duijl said. “In Europe we now have double-digit
market share, yet it’s only a very small portion of our revenue.
There is a lot of opportunity ahead of us. Even if the market
doesn’t grow fast, we will grow.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Li in Hong Kong at 
 sli31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  