-- Herbert Smith to Merge With Freehills, Open in New York
-- B y   D o u g l a s   W o n g
-- 2012-06-28T14:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/herbert-smith-to-merge-with-freehills-open-in-new-york.html
Herbert Smith  LLP of London and
Freehills, Australia’s third-largest  law firm , will merge to
create a 2,800-lawyer firm, with plans to open offices in  New
York , Seoul and  Africa .  The full equity merger will take effect Oct. 1, the two
firms said in a joint statement yesterday. David Willis and Gavin Bell, the managing partners of Herbert Smith and Freehills, will
be joint chief executives of the new firm.  Herbert Smith Freehills, as the firm will be known around
the world, is the fourth combination of an Australian and an
international firm this year and the first to have a single
profit pool for its global partners.  Allens Linklaters , King &
Wood Mallesons and Ashurst have maintained separate finances
while chasing a bigger share of energy, natural resources and
acquisition work with Chinese and other Asian clients.  “As the world’s business and deal activity moves
eastwards, this new firm is exceptionally well-placed to serve
both Asian and multinational clients in the Asia Pacific, the
fastest growing legal market in the world,” said  Mark Johnson ,
Asia head of Herbert Smith.  The new firm will have 20 offices in Asia, Australia,
 Europe  and the  Middle East , and plans to open in New York, Seoul
and North Africa this year, he said in an interview. Herbert
Smith, which has ended a decade-long alliance with German firm
Gleiss Lutz, also plans to open an office in  Germany  next year,
Johnson said.  Profit, Loss  Law firms have been merging to better serve clients as the
global economy has slowed and competition increased. The May
bankruptcy of New York-based Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, created in a
2007 merger, illustrates the industry’s challenges.  The world’s largest law firms, DLA Piper and  Baker &
McKenzie , don’t have a single pool from which all their partners
share the profit or loss and recent combinations involving U.S.
firms including  Hogan Lovells  and SNR Denton have also kept
their finances separate.  While some firms like Norton Rose Group, which combines
U.K., Australian, Canadian and South African partnerships, say
they are no different from a fully integrated firm, Bell of
Freehills said that a full merger creates an incentive for all
partners to work together and ensures seamless client service.  “Over the next few years the market for premium legal
services will become increasingly dominated by a small number of
truly global firms,” Willis said.  Allens, Minter  The global amalgamation and consolidation of law firms has
accelerated because of client demand and Australian firms have
found different structures to combine with international
partners, according to  Michael Rose , chief executive of Allens,
whose alliance with London’s Linklaters LLP took effect May 1.  Retaining the independence of Allens, which began in 1822,
is appreciated by some Australian clients, Rose said.  Herbert Smith, founded in 1882, developed a leading
disputes practice after the second world war and demand for this
advice is expected to increase from global clients, Johnson
said.  Freehills, which traces its history to 1852, was the third-
largest law firm by lawyers last year, according to trade
publication Australasian Legal Business.  Fourteen partners from Clayton Utz, Australia’s second-
largest firm, left in 2010 to join the new offices in Australia
of London’s Allen & Overy LLP.  The largest,  Minter Ellison , has opened a Mongolia office
and is expanding in Beijing and Hong Kong.  “Each of Australia’s top tier firms is adopting a
different strategy,” Minter Ellison Chief Executive Partner
John Weber said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas Wong in Hong Kong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  