-- Mercedes-Benz and Truck Dealers Being Probed in U.K. Over Cartel
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-06-28T08:31:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/mercedes-benz-and-truck-dealers-being-probed-in-u-k-over-cartel.html
Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz unit in
Britain and five dealers of its vans and trucks are being probed
by a competition regulator for allegedly coordinating prices and
sharing commercially sensitive information.  The group is suspected of five violations of competition
law from 2007 to 2010, with each including two or three dealers,
the  Office of Fair Trading  said in a statement today. Mercedes
may have been involved in two of the incidents, the OFT said.  “We have reason to believe that these dealers cooperated
to limit competition in their areas,” Ali Nikpay, an OFT senior
director, said in the statement. The companies will have a
“full opportunity to respond to our statement before we decide
whether competition law has in fact been infringed.”  The OFT dropped a separate civil probe into the Mercedes
unit and companies including  Fiat SpA (F) ’s Iveco subsidiary to let
the European Union focus on the case, which involves a suspected
cartel of truckmakers. In that probe, the head of the U.K.
Mercedes-Benz truck division was arrested in 2010, and then
released on bail when the probe began.  “We now have detailed information about the investigation
of the OFT for the first time,” Daimler spokesman Rob Halloway
said in an e-mail today about the new probe. “We will continue
to cooperate with the authorities.”  The new investigation is part of surge in activity by the
OFT since U.K. Business Secretary  Vince Cable  appointed a new
chief executive officer for the watchdog following a series of
court defeats.  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) ,  Europe ’s biggest discount
airline, is facing a full investigation of its 30 percent stake
in Irish competitor Aer Lingus Group Plc after the OFT said the
holding may lead to higher prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  