-- EU Approves Jobs, Growth Plan With 10 Billion-Euro EIB Boost
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-06-28T21:03:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/eu-approves-jobs-growth-plan-with-10-billion-euro-eib-boost.html
European Union leaders approved a
120 billion-euro ($149 billion) plan to promote growth in the
27-nation bloc that includes a capital boost for the  European
Investment Bank .  The government chiefs agreed on a 10 billion-euro capital
increase for the EIB today as a centerpiece of the long-term
growth plan, which includes infrastructure financing, tax-policy
pledges and more focused use of EU funding. It also calls for
project bonds and support of small and medium-sized businesses.  “The growth agenda is a sign of our unrelenting
commitment,” EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  said in a press
conference in Brussels on the first day of a two-day summit.
“It brings together all concrete measures that we will swiftly
take.”  The growth plan came before leaders took on the thornier
measures to prevent the euro area’s financial crisis from
swamping Spain and  Italy . They’ll discuss buying Spanish and
Italian government bonds to bring down borrowing costs that are
near euro-era records, Finnish Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen 
said. He also proposed that bailout funds buy collateralized
government debt in primary markets.  Van Rompuy  said other elements of the growth-promoting
strategy, such as those dealing with financial stability and the
future of the euro, have not yet been finished.  The leaders will continue meeting tonight to discuss the
long-term future of the EU and its 17-nation common currency.
“We are making progress,” he said, adding that debate on
short-term measures isn’t blocking the path to agreement.
Leaders also continue to discuss an EU patent, he said.  Merkel Endorsement  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  endorsed the growth plan
before the meeting started, calling it “a good program,
especially in terms of future-oriented investment and above all
in terms of more job opportunities especially for young
people.”  The Luxembourg-based EIB could use its capital infusion to
increase its lending capacity by 60 billion euros and unlock 180
billion euros of additional investment, according to EU
estimates.  With the extra capacity, the EIB can keep expanding its
efforts to finance EU infrastructure projects. In January, the
bank said it was on course to gradually return to pre-2008
lending levels, with loans set to decline to 50 billion euros in
2012 from  61 billion euros in 2011 .  The capital increase comes with a pledge to make sure EIB
loans reach “the most vulnerable countries,” according to
draft conclusions circulated ahead of the meeting. At the same
time, documents sent to leaders last week by EIB President
Werner Hoyer and European Commission President  Jose Barroso  say
the EIB won’t abandon its lending standards.  AAA Model  “The increased activity should not compromise the EIB’s
fundamental AAA-based business model,” said the commission-EIB
report on joint lending priorities, obtained by Bloomberg News.  “While EIB has a countercyclical role to play and is ready
to do all it can to support growth and jobs at this difficult
moment, the EIB cannot be seen as and should not become a
crisis-management tool, nor a bailing out instrument,” the
report said.  Hoyer said the extra 180 billion euros in investments would
take place between 2013 and 2015 if the EIB gets the extra
capital, in an  interview  published today in  Les Echos . Over the
next three to four years, the EIB could make additional loans
and investments on innovation, strategic infrastructure,
resource efficiency projects and access to finance for small and
medium-sized entities, the report said.  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said in Brussels today
that the EIB needs to finance smaller companies as part of
needed reforms for European growth.  -- With assistance from Joao Lima, James G. Neuger, Tony Czuczka
and  Robert Hutton  in Brussels. Editor: Patrick G. Henry, Matthew Brockett  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ; 