-- Euro Rises After EU Leaders Renounce Spain Loan Seniority
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-06-29T21:23:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/euro-heads-for-second-weekly-decline-before-french-economic-data.html
The euro surged the most this year
against the dollar after European leaders eased terms on loans
to Spanish banks, taking a step toward resolving the region’s
debt crisis and boosting demand for the shared currency.  The 17-nation euro posted its biggest gain in eight months
versus the yen as European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy 
said officials meeting in Brussels agreed to drop the condition
that emergency loans to Spanish banks give creditor governments
preferred status. The Australian and New Zealand dollars
advanced as stock gains boosted demand for higher-yielding
assets.  “The move that we saw today was a positive step by
European leaders,”  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst in  Washington 
at Western Union Business Solutions, a unit of  Western Union
Co. (WU) , said in a telephone interview. “It’s not the best-case
scenario, but it certainly exceeds the market’s really low
expectations heading into the summit.”  The euro advanced 1.8 percent to $1.2667 at 5 p.m. New York
time after rising as much as 2 percent, the biggest intraday
gain since Oct. 27. The shared currency jumped 2.2 percent to
101.04 yen, gaining as much as 2.6 percent, the most since Oct.
31. The yen fell 0.4 percent to 79.79 per dollar.  Implied volatility  among currencies fell, touching the
lowest level since May 8, according to a JPMorgan Chase & Co.
gauge. The JPMorgan Global FX Volatility Index declined to 9.56,
up from this year’s low of 8.84 in April. The high was 12.37 in
January and the average this year is 10.36.  Haven Assets  Even as the euro has outperformed the  U.S. dollar  on demand
for higher-risk assets, the currency’s performance against other
counterparts has been muted because the EU’s emergency-loan
decision did barely enough to meet already-low expectations,
Manimbo said.  The euro was little changed against nine developed-nation
peers tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. Haven
assets were the worst performers, with the greenback slumping
0.7 percent and the Japanese currency falling 1.3 percent.
 Canada ’s dollar was the best performer with a 0.5 percent
increase.  The euro was rose 0.1 percent against the  New Zealand
dollar  and dropped 0.1 percent against the Swedish krona and
Australian dollar.  Hedge funds  and other large speculators hold
a net-short euro position, or bet that the currency will fall
against the dollar, of 141,066 contracts, as of June 19. The
speculative positioning reached a euro-era record-high June 5.  “I don’t think that what was announced is a big game
changer at this point,” Charles St-Arnaud, a foreign-exchange
strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in  New York , said in a
telephone interview. “There’s still no bond-buying framework in
place. There’s still a structural problem that hasn’t been
addressed yet.”  Quarterly Drop  The euro is still set for its biggest quarterly drop
against the dollar and the yen since September. The euro has
weakened 8.6 percent versus the yen since March 31, and 5.1
percent against the dollar.  The euro may face resistance at its June 18 high of
$1.2748, according to data compiled by Bloomberg based on
trading patterns. Resistance refers to an area on a price graph
where sell orders may be clustered. The stronger the resistance,
the more buying is needed to rise through that level.  The yen fell versus all of its major counterparts as rising
U.S. Treasury yields draw more funds into dollar-based
securities, helping weaken  Japan ’s currency. Treasury two-year
notes  yield  about 19 basis points, or 0.19 percentage point,
more than Japanese bonds of similar maturity. The spread has
widened from 13 basis points in September.  Dollar Index  The market’s risk-on tone has reversed recent safe-haven
flows, Eric Theoret, a currency strategist in Toronto at  Bank of
Nova Scotia (BNS) ’s Scotia Capital unit, wrote today in a note to
clients.  Bank of Japan (8301)  policy, domestic fundamentals and a
growing global risk appetite should push the U.S. dollar to 83
yen, according to Theoret.  The  Dollar Index (DXY)  fell as much as 1.7 percent, the most
since Oct. 27, ending a two-day rally as the EU’s Spanish bond
decision decreased investor appetite for risk-averse assets. The
index is used by IntercontinentalExchange Inc. to track the
greenback against the currencies of six U.S. trading partners.  The dollar has weakened against nine of its 16 most-traded
counterparts this year, with the Mexican peso’s 4.3 percent rise
leading gainers. The euro dropped 2.3 percent versus the dollar
and the yen fell 3.6 percent, the biggest decline after the
Brazilian real’s 7.1 percent plunge.  Spain, Italy  Spain ’s 10-year bond yield dropped 61 basis points to 6.33
percent, the biggest decline since Dec. 5.  Italy ’s 10-year yield
slid 38 basis points to 5.82 percent.  EU leaders gathered today for a second day of talks to
discuss measures to stem a debt crisis that’s spurred five euro
members to seek international bailouts. Euro-bloc finance
ministers will enact today’s deal on loans to Spanish banks at a
meeting on July 9, Rompuy said, calling the accord a
“breakthrough.”  The European Union has “addressed the issues on the
seniority of Spanish loans,” said Roy Teo, a currency
strategist in  Singapore  at ABN Amro Private Bank. “The fact
that right now they are renouncing the seniority status means
private bondholders will have similar, equal, weighting. It’s
positive for the euro.”  ‘Raising Funds’  South Africa ’s  rand  rose against all but one of its major
counterparts, rallying the most in more than nine months as
stocks and commodities surged after the decision to support
Spain’s banks boosted demand for riskier assets. The currency
gained 2.8 percent to 8.1642 per dollar after rising as much as
3.4 percent, its biggest increase since Sept. 27.  Canada’s  dollar  also advanced the most since Nov. 30 versus
the dollar as rising stocks and commodities increased demand for
higher yielding assets. The so-called loonie appreciated 1.6
percent to C$1.0166.  The Australian dollar appreciated 1.9 percent to $1.0238
and gained 1.7 percent for the week. New Zealand’s dollar rose
1.7 percent to 80.13 U.S. cents.  “Anything that looks to be supportive of Spain and Italy
in raising funds is going to be positive,” said  Sacha Tihanyi ,
a strategist in  Hong Kong  at Scotiabank, a unit of Bank of  Nova
Scotia . “As long as these headlines continue to come out with
this sort of flavor, we can see the Aussie and kiwi get squeezed
a bit higher.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  