-- European Stocks Near Cheapest Ever as Invesco Buys Repsol
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2012-06-29T15:54:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/european-stocks-near-cheapest-ever-as-invesco-buys-repsol.html
Two years of losses have pushed
European equities toward the lowest valuations ever, prompting
fund managers from Invesco Ltd. to JPMorgan Chase & Co. to
increase holdings in  Spain , Italy and Germany.  While the Euro Stoxx 50 Index has fallen to 0.9 times  book
value , cheaper than any time except the week markets bottomed in
March 2009, Invesco is betting on  Repsol SA (REP) , the Spanish oil
producer. London-based Artemis Investment Management LLC is
buying stock in  Amplifon SpA (AMP) , a hearing aid maker in Milan.
Fidecum AG is adding shares of German lender  Aareal Bank AG. (ARL)   Two emergency plans for lenders from the  European Central
Bank , four national bailouts and 18 summit meetings for heads of
state have failed to keep the euro region’s share gauge from
dropping. With more investors than ever saying European equities
are undervalued in a monthly survey by Bank of America Corp.,
managers who help oversee about $430 billion say they are
finding bargains across the continent.  “What’s in the price for  Europe  is beginning to be
Armageddon,” Stephanie Butcher, who helps manage $62 billion at
Invesco Perpetual in Henley-on-Thames,  England , said at a
presentation on June 26. “This is a region that has been hugely
de-rated, that has a lot of high-quality international assets
that are very lowly valued. This is an unusual circumstance and
one offering genuine opportunities.”  Government Bailouts  The  Euro Stoxx 50 (SX5E)  for the 17 euro nations fell 30 percent
from February 2011 through yesterday, wiping about $1.1 trillion
from European equities, as Ireland, Portugal, Greece and Cyprus
sought rescues after borrowing costs surged. Spain asked for 100
billion euros ($124 billion) to shore up its banks. The gauge
jumped 5 percent today after leaders attending a European Union
summit agreed to waive national government’s preferred-creditor
status on bailouts for Spanish lenders. They also pledged to
spend $149 billion to stimulate the economy.  Companies in the gauge fell to 0.93 times book value, or
assets minus liabilities, this month amid concern grew that
Greece will be forced to drop out of the euro. That’s the lowest
ratio since March 6, 2009, the week that preceded a 70 percent
 rally  in the equities gauge.  Forty-five percent of respondents in a Bank of America
regional survey of fund managers released June 12 said  euro-zone 
shares are undervalued, the highest for any region since at
least 2001. Participants in the poll oversee $297 billion.  Falling Returns  Repsol, the Madrid-based  oil company  whose YPF unit was
seized by Argentina this year, is trading at 57 percent of its
book value after falling to a nine-year low this week. That’s
the least since at least 1999, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg. The company trades at 7.4 times its estimated 2012
earnings, compared with 13.6 times for BG Group Plc, a U.K. oil
company that explores in Brazil.  The share drop suggests “falling returns and no asset
growth” at Repsol, an incorrect assumption, said Invesco’s
Butcher.  Money-manager Laurent Millet has 9 percent of the Artemis
European Opportunities fund in Spanish stocks, including  Amadeus (AMS) 
IT Holding SA, an operator of booking services for airlines.  Amadeus has risen 26 percent this year, compared with the
22 percent decline in Spain’s benchmark IBEX 35 Index. The
Madrid-based company posted a 23 percent increase in passengers
boarded in the first quarter, from a year earlier. The shares
are trading at 11.9 times estimated earnings for 2012, below the
12.8 average ratio since 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Banks Avoided  Millet bought Amplifon in the last month. The stock is
little changed over the past two years even as earnings are set
to rise 30 percent in 2012, according to analyst forecasts
compiled by Bloomberg. He’s avoiding financial shares even
though the  Euro Stoxx Banks Index (SX7E)  trades at 0.4 times book
value.  “One of the big mistakes investors are doing is looking at
the market through the macro risks, and not every company
trading in Spain or Italy is a risky bet,” Millet, who helps
oversee $17 billion in  London , said in a phone interview on June
27. “Valuations are incredibly cheap.”  Economic concern prompted Pictet Asset Management, the
Geneva-based investment group overseeing $124 billion, to lower
its recommendation on European shares on June 1. It cited
“significant political-event risk in the euro zone and the
region’s weaker economic momentum” in a note to clients.
Alliance Trust Plc, the 124-year-old U.K.-listed  investment
company , has also cut holdings.  ‘Value, Risk’  “It’s one of those challenging things where there is
value, but there is also risk,” Katherine Garrett-Cox, chief
executive officer at Alliance Trust, said in an interview on
June 27. “In the cold light of day, this is the part of the
world where we see significant downside risk.”  The euro area probably entered a recession, defined as two
consecutive quarters of economic contraction, in the second
quarter, according to economists’ forecasts on Bloomberg.
Italy’s economy is forecast to shrink by 2.3 percent in its
third consecutive negative quarter, while Spain’s may drop by
1.5 percent in the three months from the year-earlier period,
the forecasts show.  EU leaders meeting in Brussels yesterday and today are
discussing a plan for closer European integration spearheaded by
EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  that centers on common banking
supervision and deposit insurance. German  Chancellor Angela
Merkel  gave in on expanded steps to stem the debt crisis as euro
governments can now access rescue loans without relinquishing
control of their economies.  ‘Positive Surprises’  Speculating on declines may be a losing bet because of the
likelihood of more  government aid , Deutsche Bank AG said June
26. The Frankfurt-based bank advised investors to close
underweight positions in  European equities  ahead of the EU
summit, saying that “expectations are fairly low and any
positive surprises are likely to fuel outperformance,”
according to a note to clients.  Economists expect the ECB to cut the key  interest rate  by
25 basis points to 0.75 percent by the third quarter to stop
credit markets from freezing and avoid a deposit run in some
nations, Bloomberg data show. The ECB may extend its long-term
lending plan, according to Societe Generale SA.  Aareal, Bull  Fidecum, an asset manager in  Bad Homburg , Germany, last
month added shares of Aareal Bank, the German property lender
whose stock has plunged 51 percent since July 2011 as the debt
crisis curbed its business, according to a May 31 report to
clients. The stock is trading at 0.4 times its book value, down
from as high as 1.6 in 2006.  The Fidecum Contrarian Value Euroland fund bought shares in
 Bull (BULL) , a French maker of computers that has fallen 53 percent
since June 2011 in Paris trading.  Raj Tanna, a strategist who helps manage $280 billion at
JPMorgan Private Bank in London, said losses in the euro zone
present a buying opportunity.  “Europe is home of some of the best global companies in
the world and their fundamentals are as strong as they have been
in a number of years,” he said in an e-mailed response to
questions. “The share prices of these high-quality corporations
have fallen in sympathy with the broader market, unveiling very
attractive opportunities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  