-- European Leaders Put Bond Buying on Table at Crisis Summit
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e ,   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   C a r o l i n e   C o n n a n
-- 2012-06-28T20:21:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/european-chiefs-put-bond-buying-on-table-as-crisis-summit-opens.html
European Union leaders focused on
immediate help for Spain and  Italy  at the start of a two-day
summit intended to chart a path out of their financial crisis.  The 27 government chiefs will discuss buying Spanish and
Italian  government bonds  to bring down borrowing costs that are
near euro-era records, Finnish Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen 
said. He also proposed that bailout funds buy collateralized
government debt in primary markets.  The Finnish proposal joined discussion of whether the euro
area’s rescue fund should aid banks directly and the role of the
 European Central Bank , which has already bought more than 200
billion euros ($249 billion) of government bonds and pumped more
than 1 trillion euros of three-year loans into the banking
system. It shelved its bond-purchase program earlier this year
amid growing resistance to the policy on the ECB Governing
Council.  European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs CommissionerOlli Rehn said the ECB’s actions have prevented the crisis from
worsening. He also called for “concrete measures” to help
Italy and Spain and more debate about mutualized public debt.  “The ECB has played a key role in safeguarding financial
stability,” Rehn said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television. “We respect the independence of the ECB, but they
have played a key role so far in fighting off the crisis.”  Leaders including German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  delayed a
series of scheduled press briefings as talks continued on a
proposed 120 billion-euro growth pact that includes a 10
billion-euro capital increase for the European Investment Bank.
Euro-area finance deputies also began meeting this afternoon to
discuss short-term steps to fight the crisis, according to an EU
official.  Leaders are considering short-term measures to stem the
sovereign debt turmoil as EU President  Herman Van Rompuy ’s road
map to strengthen the bloc’s common currency and financial
oversight ran into immediate opposition from  Germany . Merkel has
become increasingly isolated as French President  Francois Hollande , Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  and Spanish Premier
 Mariano Rajoy  unite to push for quicker action to ease the
crisis that emerged in  Greece  in late 2009.  “I’ve come for very rapid solutions to support countries
in difficulty on the markets,” Hollande told reporters as he
arrived in Brussels. Without specifying Spain or Italy, he said
they “have made considerable efforts to deal with their public
accounts.”  ‘Kill the Economy’  Italy needs to be able to pool debt sales with the 16 other
nations of the euro area to bring down borrowing costs as Monti,
who has raised taxes and promised spending cuts, exhausts policy
options, said  Romano Prodi , a former head of government.  “I don’t think that anything more can be done, because
otherwise you kill the economy,” Prodi, Italy’s prime minister
from 2006 to 2008, said at a press conference in Brussels.
“European solidarity, which must come to euro bonds, is the
only possible solution.”  Italy today paid the most to sell 10-year debt since
December, selling the notes to yield 6.19 percent. Spanish 10-
year yields rose to 6.94 percent today. The focus should be on
helping Spain’s banks and reducing Italian yields to around or
slightly under 4 percent, Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan 
said to reporters in Dublin today.  Joint Debt  Merkel, who has rejected calls to investigate joint debt or
do more to cut Spanish and Italian borrowing costs, said her
focus will be on measures to boost economic growth. As of June
25, draft conclusions for today’s meeting included a pledge to
boost the bloc’s economy through improved economic governance,
better use of the EU’s budget and a capital increase for the
 European Investment Bank .  “The debate today will center on a package for growth and
employment,” she told reporters before the meeting. “I believe
this package is ripe for approval today.”  Merkel met Hollande last night in Paris and will travel to
 Rome  to meet Monti on July 4. Katainen proposed that financially
struggling countries issue bonds backed by state assets or tax-
revenue streams as a way out of the debt crisis.  Any decision to help Spain and Italy will hinge on the
conditions, said Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro
Sovereign Strategy in  London . He said Italy already has a
primary surplus and shouldn’t be asked to cut its budget
further, while  Spain  is trying to rein in regional spending
without taking on more arduous national commitments.  Bond Buying  “At the end of the day all this depends on the scale and
objective of the bond buying,” Spiro said in an e-mail. “There
may be ways to minimize the conditionality, particularly for
Spain where this is a very sensitive issue.”  Europe’s bailout funds -- the temporary European Financial
Stability Facility and its permanent successor, the European
Stability Mechanism -- could buy the bonds in the primary
market, Katainen said in an e-mailed statement from Finland’s
representation to the European Union in Brussels.  “The EFSF or ESM could stand ready to intervene in the
primary market to facilitate successful issuance of the covered
bonds,” Katainen said. “Italy and Spain have lots of state
properties they could use in raising money. Selling covered
bonds would send a strong message they stand behind their
debt.”  Katainen said the proposal is based on Finland’s experience
with the sale of covered bonds during its economic troubles in
the early 1990s.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Brussels at  jrandow@bloomberg.net 
Caroline Connan in Brussels at  cconnan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  