-- Euro-Area Confidence Slumps, German Unemployment Rises
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-06-28T11:05:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/euro-area-june-economic-sentiment-falls-to-lowest-since-2009-1-.html
Economic confidence  in the euro area
slumped to the lowest in more than 2 1/2 years in June and
German unemployment increased more than economists forecast,
adding to signs the European economy fell into a recession.  An  index  of executive and consumer sentiment in the 17-
nation euro area dropped to 89.9 from a revised 90.5 in May, the
European Commission in Brussels said today. That’s the lowest
since October 2009. In  Germany , the number of people out of work
rose a  seasonally adjusted  7,000 to 2.88 million, a separate
report showed. Economists in a Bloomberg News survey had
forecast a gain of 3,000 in the month.  Rising unemployment in  Europe ’s largest economy underscores
indications of a deepening economic slump as the sovereign-debt
crisis shifts from periphery states to core members. European
leaders are meeting in Brussels today to discuss ways to stem
contagion of the debt turmoil that this month forced  Spain  and
Cyprus to seek aid.  “Germany won’t be able to disconnect from the euro-region
developments,” said  Christoph Weil , an economist at Commerzbank
AG in  Frankfurt . “The second quarter will show an economic
contraction and there are no signs of improvement for the
following three months. Whether the situation stabilizes
afterward hinges decisively on the euro crisis and latest
developments are no real reason for optimism.”  The euro traded at $1.2432 at 12:50 p.m. in Frankfurt, down
0.3 percent on the day. It has depreciated 6.7 percent against
the dollar over the past three months as investors grew more
concerned about the specter of a euro breakup.  Declining Confidence  Economists had forecast a drop in euro-area economic
confidence to 89.6, according to the median of 27 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey. Germany’s adjusted jobless rate held at
6.8 percent in June, the Nuremberg-based Federal Labor Agency
said.  A gauge of sentiment among European manufacturers fell to
minus 12.7 from minus 11.4 in May, the commission’s report
showed. That’s the lowest since February 2010. An indicator of
services confidence dropped to minus 7.4 from minus 5.2, while a
gauge of consumer sentiment slipped to minus 19.8 from minus
19.3. Sentiment in the  construction industry  improved.  “The crisis continues to dominate everything,” said Gerd Hassel, an economist at BHF Bank AG in Frankfurt, before today’s
data. “I fear that confidence will continue to decline over the
coming months.”  Spain, Cyprus  Spain this week made a formal bailout request for as much
as 100 billion euros ($124 billion) for banks. Cyprus on June 25
also sought a financial lifeline to “contain the risks to the
Cypriot economy, notably those arising from the negative
spillover effects through its financial sector, due to its large
exposure to the  Greek economy ,” the government said.  In  Greece , Antonis Samaras, sworn in as the nation’s new
prime minister on June 20, has pledged to seek relief from
austerity measures imposed on his country while keeping the
bailout funds flowing.  Spanish 10-year bond yields rose to 6.98 percent, edging
toward the 7 percent level that forced Greece, Ireland and
 Portugal  into bailouts.  Still, Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who
leads the group of 17 euro-area finance ministers, signaled a
possible agreement, saying he expects “that we can calm markets
on this point in the coming days.”  ‘Getting Bigger’  “The summit won’t solve the problems,” Commerzbank’s Weil
said. “I’m relatively certain that Spain will ask for financial
help over the coming weeks. The sums keep getting bigger. They’d
have to come up with a different solution for  Italy . With normal
instruments, Italy won’t be saved.”  Billionaire investor  George Soros  said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television on June 24 that failure to reach an
agreement at the summit could be “fatal,” when calling on
Europe to start a fund to buy Italian and Spanish bonds.  “Not for the first time, the single currency is waiting
for a European summit to offer renewed hope and some light at
the end of the tunnel,”  Simon Smith , chief economist at FXPro
in  London  wrote ahead of today’s report. “As the past few weeks
have shown, the ability of supposedly supportive events to prop
up the single currency is getting ever weaker.”  Euro-area services and manufacturing output contracted for
a fifth month in June. In Germany, whose economic expansion
helped prevent the euro-region economy from sliding into a
contraction in the first quarter,  investor confidence  slumped
more than economists forecast this month and business confidence
fell to the lowest in more than two years.  ‘Challenging Times’  At least seven euro nations are in recessions, eroding
export demand from within the currency bloc and leaving
companies reliant on markets abroad as global growth falters. In
the U.S., the world’s largest economy,  consumer confidence 
dropped in June for a fourth month and more Americans probably
filed claims for jobless benefits in the week ended June 23,
according to a Bloomberg survey.  Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh yesterday pledged to
restore confidence in  Asia ’s third-largest economy after growth
slowed to the weakest in almost a decade. At “the current
juncture, we are passing through challenging times
economically,” Singh said in a statement.  Indicators of euro-zone manufacturers’ production
expectations and export order books fell in June, while a gauge
of employment expectations also fell, the commission said. An
indicator of manufacturers’ selling-price expectations fell to
minus 1.3 in June. That’s the first negative reading since
February 2010, according to data on the Bloomberg system.  ‘Not in Sight’  Commerzbank AG, Germany’s second-largest lender, said on
June 26 that it will close its commercial real-estate and ship-
finance businesses. Commerzbank decided to “further reduce
risks in a consistent manner” as “a swift end to the euro
crisis is not in sight,” Chief Executive Officer  Martin Blessing  said in an internal document to employees.  The  European Central Bank  earlier this month kept its
benchmark  interest rate  at 1 percent, matching a record low,
with President  Mario Draghi  saying “a few” officials had opted
for a cut, fueling speculation the central bank may move as soon
as next month. The Frankfurt-based ECB will hold its next
assessment on July 5.  “June’s decline in euro-zone economic confidence adds to
growing evidence that the euro-zone economy contracted pretty
sharply in the second quarter,” said Martin van Vliet, an
economist at ING Bank in Amsterdam. “If no additional short-
term measures were to come out of the summit, we can only hope
that the ECB will act as a bridge to the ‘road map’ and cut
interest rates next week.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  