-- Texas Student Convicted on Mass Destruction Weapon Charge
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-06-28T00:02:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/texas-student-convicted-on-mass-destruction-weapon-charge.html
A 22-year-old Lubbock,  Texas ,
resident who was accused of buying chemicals to make a bomb and
researching potential targets in the U.S. was convicted of
attempted use of a weapon of mass destruction, authorities said.  Khalid Ali-M Aldawsari, a citizen of  Saudi Arabia , was
found guilty today by a federal court jury in Amarillo, Texas.
He faces a maximum term of life in prison, plus a $250,000 fine,
when he is sentenced Oct. 9, the U.S. Justice Department said in
a statement.  “This case serves as another reminder of the need for
continued vigilance at home and abroad,”  Lisa Monaco , assistant
U.S. Attorney General for  Homeland Security , said in the
statement.  Aldawsari was arrested Feb. 23, 2011, after a chemical
supplier reported to the Federal Bureau of Investigation that he
tried to purchase concentrated phenol, which can be used to make
an explosive, according to the Justice Department.  Aldawsari had conducted research on various targets and e-
mailed himself information about the locations, including the
 Dallas  home of former U.S. President  George W. Bush , 12
reservoir dams in  California  and Colorado and American citizens
who had served at the Abu Ghraib prison in  Iraq , the Justice
Department said.  Chemical Engineering  He was legally allowed into the U.S. in 2008 on a student
visa and was enrolled at South Plains College near Lubbock,
Texas, according to the statement. He started at the school in
January after transferring from Texas Tech University and is
listed as a general studies major, said Dane Dewbre, a spokesman
for South Plains. He was a chemical engineering major at Texas
Tech, according to court papers.  Dan Cogdell , Aldawsari’s attorney, didn’t immediately
return phone and e-mail messages seeking comment on the
conviction.  At the time of his arrest, Aldawsari had been researching
how to build an improvised explosive device using several
chemicals as ingredients, and had procured or taken substantial
steps toward acquiring the necessary ingredients and equipment,
including a hazardous materials suit, a soldering iron, glass
beakers and flasks and a stun gun, the Justice Department said.  Aldawsari attempted to have the phenol order shipped to a
freight company so it could be held for him there, the Justice
Department said. Instead, the freight company said the order had
been returned to the supplier, and called the police.  Acids, Journal  Aldawsari then canceled his order, placed it with another
company and e-mailed himself instructions for making phenol, the
 Justice Department  said. In December 2010, he bought
concentrated nitric and sulfuric acids, which are typically used
with phenol to make the explosive trinitrophenol, the Justice
Department said.  A journal found in his residence showed that Aldawsari had
been planning to commit a terror attack in the U.S. for years
and sought a particular scholarship because it allowed him to
come directly to the U.S., the Justice Department said.  Aldawsari detailed the steps he needed to complete for his
attack, including obtaining a forged U.S. birth certificate,
renting a car and using different driver’s licenses, the Justice
Department said. He had also researched using dolls to hide
explosives and considered targeting a nightclub with a bomb.  The case is USA v. Aldawsari, 5:11-cr-00015, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Texas (Dallas.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in  New York  at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  