-- Excerpts From High Court Ruling Upholding Health-Care Law
-- B y   E d i t o r :   L a u r i e   A s s e o
-- 2012-06-28T20:42:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/excerpts-from-high-court-ruling-upholding-health-care-law.html
The U.S. Supreme Court upheld the
core provisions of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care
Act, which seeks to expand health-insurance coverage to millions
of people.  Chief Justice  John Roberts , appointed by Republican
President  George W. Bush , wrote the opinion for a 5-4 majority.
The court held that while Congress can’t require Americans to
buy insurance, the government can tax people who don’t have
coverage. In its main holdings, the opinion was joined by
Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg,  Stephen Breyer ,  Sonia Sotomayor 
and  Elena Kagan , who were appointed by Democratic presidents.  Dissenting were Justices Antonin Scalia,  Anthony Kennedy ,
 Clarence Thomas  and  Samuel Alito , all appointed by Republican
presidents. In a joint opinion, the four said they would have
ruled that the minimum-insurance requirement exceeded Congress’s
constitutional power under the Commerce Clause and would have
thrown out the entire law.  The court also ruled that Congress may put conditions on
money provided to states for an expansion of Medicaid, yet can’t
take away money from existing Medicaid programs if a state
doesn’t participate.  Following are excerpts from the opinions:  From Roberts’s opinion for the court:  “Given its expansive scope, it is no surprise that
Congress has employed the commerce power in a wide variety of
ways to address the pressing needs of the time. But Congress has
never attempted to rely on that power to compel individuals not
engaged in commerce to purchase an unwanted product.”  >---------<  The individual mandate “does not regulate existing
commercial activity. It instead compels individuals to become
active in commerce by purchasing a product, on the ground that
their failure to do so affects interstate commerce. Construing
the  Commerce Clause  to permit Congress to regulate individuals
precisely because they are doing nothing would open a new and
potentially vast domain to congressional authority. Every day
individuals do not do an infinite number of things.”  >---------<  “Many Americans do not eat a balanced diet,” the ruling
said. “Under the government’s theory, Congress could address
the diet problem by ordering everyone to buy vegetables.”  >---------<  “An individual who bought a car two years ago and may buy
another in the future is not ‘active in the car market’ in any
pertinent sense. The phrase ‘active in the market’ cannot
obscure the fact that most of those regulated by the individual
mandate are not currently engaged in any commercial activity
involving health care, and that fact is fatal to the
government’s effort to ‘regulate the uninsured as a class.”’  >---------<  “The Commerce Clause is not a general license to regulate
an individual from cradle to grave, simply because he will
predictably engage in particular transactions.”  >---------<  “The individual mandate forces individuals into commerce
precisely because they elected to refrain from commercial
activity. Such a law cannot be sustained under a clause
authorizing Congress to ‘regulate Commerce.”’  >---------<  The government argued that “the mandate can be regarded as
establishing a condition -- not owning health insurance -- that
triggers a tax -- the required payment to the IRS. Under that
theory, the mandate is not a legal command to buy insurance.
Rather, it makes going without insurance just another thing the
government taxes, like buying gasoline or earning income. And if
the mandate is in effect just a tax hike on certain taxpayers
who do not have health insurance, it may be within Congress’s
constitutional power to tax.”  >---------<  “The shared responsibility payment may for constitutional
purposes be considered a tax, not a penalty. First, for most
Americans the amount due will be far less than the price of
insurance, and, by statute, it can never be more. It may often
be a reasonable financial decision to make the payment rather
than purchase insurance.”  >---------<  “It is abundantly clear the Constitution does not
guarantee that individuals may avoid taxation through
inactivity.”  >---------<  “The Affordable Care Act’s requirement that certain
individuals pay a financial penalty for not obtaining health
insurance may reasonably be characterized as a tax. Because the
Constitution permits such a tax, it is not our role to forbid
it, or to pass upon its wisdom or fairness.”  >---------<  “In this case, the financial ‘inducement’ Congress has
chosen” -- with the power to withhold Medicaid funding from
states that don’t participate in the expanded program -- “is
much more than ‘relatively mild encouragement’ -- it is a gun to
the head.”  >---------<  “Nothing in our opinion precludes Congress from offering
funds under the Affordable Care Act to expand the availability
of health care, and requiring that states accepting such funds
comply with the conditions on their use. What Congress is not
free to do is to penalize states that choose not to participate
in that new program by taking away their existing Medicaid
funding.”  >---------<  From the dissent by Scalia, Kennedy, Thomas and Alito:  “The act before us here exceeds federal power both in
mandating the purchase of health insurance and in denying non-
consenting states all Medicaid funding. These parts of the act
are central to its design and operation, and all the act’s other
provisions would not have been enacted without them. In our view
it must follow that the entire statute is inoperative.”  >---------<  “Congress’s desire to force these individuals to purchase
insurance is motivated by the fact that they are further removed
from the market than unhealthy individuals with pre-existing
conditions, because they are less likely to need extensive care
in the near future. If Congress can reach out and command even
those furthest removed from an interstate market to participate
in the market, then the Commerce Clause becomes a font of
unlimited power.”  >---------<  “In a few cases, this court has held that a ‘tax’ imposed
upon private conduct was so onerous as to be in effect a
penalty. But we have never held -- never -- that a penalty
imposed for violation of the law was so trivial as to be in
effect a tax.”  >---------<  “To say that the individual mandate merely imposes a tax
is not to interpret the statute but to rewrite it.”  >---------<  “States must choose between expanding Medicaid or paying
huge tax sums to the federal fisc for the sole benefit of
expanding Medicaid in other states. If this divisive dynamic
between and among states can be introduced at all, it should be
by conscious congressional choice, not by court-invented
interpretation.”  >---------<  “The court today decides to save a statute Congress did
not write. It rules that what the statute declares to be a
requirement with a penalty is instead an option subject to a
tax. And it changes the intentionally coercive sanction of a
total cut-off of Medicaid funds to a supposedly non-coercive
cut-off of only the incremental funds that the act makes
available.”  >---------<  From the opinion written by Ginsburg, concurring in part
and dissenting in part:  “In the  Social Security Act , Congress installed a federal
system to provide monthly benefits to retired wage earners and,
eventually, to their survivors. Beyond question, Congress could
have adopted a similar scheme for health care. Congress chose,
instead, to preserve a central role for private insurers and
state governments. According to the chief justice, the Commerce
Clause does not permit that preservation. This rigid reading of
the clause makes scant sense and is stunningly retrogressive.”  >---------<  “Whatever one thinks of the policy decision Congress made,
it was Congress’s prerogative to make it. Reviewed with
appropriate deference, the minimum coverage provision, allied to
the guaranteed-issue and community-rating prescriptions, should
survive measurement under the Commerce and Necessary and Proper
clauses.”  >---------<  “Beyond dispute, Congress had a rational basis for
concluding that the uninsured, as a class, substantially affect
interstate commerce. Those without insurance consume billions of
dollars of health-care products and services each year.”  >---------<  “Although an individual might buy a car or a crown of
broccoli one day, there is no certainty she will ever do so. And
if she eventually wants a car or has a craving for broccoli, she
will be obliged to pay at the counter before receiving the
vehicle or nourishment. She will get no free ride or food, at
the expense of another consumer forced to pay an inflated
price.”  >---------<  “When contemplated in its extreme, almost any power looks
dangerous. The commerce power, hypothetically, would enable
Congress to prohibit the purchase and home production of all
meat, fish and dairy goods, effectively compelling Americans to
eat only vegetables,” Ginsburg wrote, saying nobody would offer
the “hypothetical” possibility of “a vegetarian state as a
credible reason to deny Congress the authority ever to ban the
possession and sale of goods.”  “The chief justice accepts just such specious logic when
he cites the broccoli horrible as a reason to deny Congress the
power to pass the individual mandate.”  >---------<  “Future Congresses are not bound by their predecessors’
dispositions; they have authority to spend federal revenue as
they see fit. The federal government, therefore, is not, as the
chief justice charges, threatening states with the loss of
‘existing’ funds from one spending program in order to induce
them to opt into another program. Congress is simply requiring
states to do what states have long been required to do to
receive Medicaid funding: comply with the conditions Congress
prescribes for participation.” 