-- Mexico’s New President Needs to Bust Its Business Cartels
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-06-28T22:34:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/mexico-s-new-president-needs-to-bust-its-business-cartels.html
Whoever is elected  Mexico ’s next
president on Sunday must confront an existential challenge from
cartels -- and not just the drug syndicates that have turned
swathes of the country into 24/7 shooting galleries.  From bread, beer and milk to telephones, television and
electricity, monopolies and duopolies dominate Mexico’s economy.
Loosening their grip would give Mexican consumers more choices
and more money to spend. It would also spur economic development
and invigorate political and economic institutions, thereby
helping society combat the effects of the drug war violence that
has led to more than 47,000 deaths over the past six years.  In a campaign focused more on personalities than policies,
the three leading candidates -- Enrique Pena Nieto of the
 Institutional Revolutionary Party ,  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador 
of the Democratic Revolution Party and Josefina Vazquez Mota of
the incumbent National Action Party -- didn’t necessarily dwell
on this concentration in the Mexican economy. Yet two telling
examples in energy and telecommunications spell out its negative
consequences for ordinary Mexicans and why the next president
needs to undertake a wide-ranging reform. For different reasons,
both are also of symbolic importance.  No cow is more sacred than  Petroleos Mexicanos , or Pemex,
the state-owned  oil company  created in 1938 by the expropriation
of foreign companies. Partly as a result of a ban on foreign
investment in the oil sector -- a prohibition that Mexico shares
with  Iran  and  North Korea  -- Pemex’s output has been declining
for almost a decade, and it has lagged in finding and exploiting
new reserves. Electricity production (which relies heavily on
oil) is also controlled by a state monopoly notorious for its
high prices (nearly twice as high as in the U.S.) and poor
service. This year, the  World Bank  and International Finance
Corp.  ranked  Mexico 142 out of 183 countries in the ease of
getting electricity.  Like Pemex,  Carlos Slim , the world’s richest man, may be a
source of pride for some Mexicans. But they probably feel less
warm toward his company, America Movil SAB, which controls 80
percent and 70 percent, respectively, of the landline and mobile
telephone markets. According to the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development, high prices and poor service in
telecommunications cost Mexico about $25 billion a year from
2005 to 2009, equivalent to 2 percent of gross domestic product.
(Slim’s company disagrees with that  assessment .) Mexico also
ranks near the bottom of OECD countries in market penetration
for fixed, mobile and broadband service, and investment per
capita is lower than in any other OECD country.  Television is effectively a duopoly between Grupo Televisa
SAB, which controls 70 percent of the free-to-air TV and about
half of the cable and satellite pay-TV market, and  TV Azteca
SAB. (AZTECACP)  Mexico’s Federal Competition Commission estimates that more
competition in pay TV could reduce prices and grow the size of
the market by more than a third.  The list of outsized companies cited for squelching
competition goes on, including Cemex SAB, the largest cement
maker in the Americas, and Grupo Bimbo SAB, the world’s largest
bread maker. According to Eduardo Perez Motta, the head of the
competition commission, poor Mexicans (who made up 51  percent  of
the population in 2010) pay as much as 40 percent more for basic
goods and services because of monopolistic practices.  Their hopes for deliverance would now seem to rest with the
Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI, the party once dubbed
“the perfect dictatorship” by Nobel Prize-winner Mario Vargas Llosa for its seven-decade rule. If polls are correct, Pena
Nieto is poised to carry the PRI back into the presidential
residence at Los Pinos after a 12-year absence.  We hope that Pena Nieto will live up to his lofty but vague
calls for reform, beginning with his plan to amend the
constitution to allow private investment in the oil industry.
Much will depend on whether his coalition can build the absolute
majority in Congress needed to effect that change. The new
governing party would need to hope for a constructive attitude
from the incumbent  National Action Party , which saw the PRI
stymie many of its efforts at reform. As the party that first
nationalized the oil industry, the PRI has the “Nixon-went-to-
China” credibility to bring along the nation on this momentous
change.  On our list of other steps that Pena Nieto could take to
spur competition would be dropping his reluctance to lift the 49
percent foreign-ownership cap on fixed telephone lines. Beyond
his proposal for dedicated antitrust courts, we hope that he
will pursue other judicial reforms to even the playing field
between deep-pocketed companies and still-relatively weak
regulatory agencies. While Mexicans are neuralgic about foreign
economic interventions, the U.S. and the European Union can help
by expanding professional  exchanges  and consultations with
Mexico’s competition commission.  Deeper challenges abound, such as increasing Mexico’s tax
base, bringing more workers into the formal economy and taking
on the powerful teachers’ union that has retarded the country’s
educational progress. Political reforms over the past two
decades, some set in motion by the PRI, have  reduced  the
likelihood of its reversion to a “perfect dictatorship.” Now, by
injecting more competition into the Mexican economy -- and
restoring faith in government by more vigorously taking on the
“other” cartels -- the PRI can help ensure that the country’s
future is brighter than the party’s past.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why  John Roberts saved
Obamacare ; Stephen L. Carter in praise of  Supreme Court secrecy ;
 Noah Feldman  on  Roberts’s restraint ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on
 misunderstanding the court ’s decision;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on
whether  women can have it all ; William Pesek on  Myanmar’s
economic development ;  Jonathan Weil  on how the  Bank for
International Settlements   sees the industry ;  Steven Greenhut  on
using eminent domain to  take over foreclosed homes .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 