-- Fabregas Repeats 2008 Penalty Success to Extend Spain’s Streak
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-06-28T02:30:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/fabregas-repeats-2008-penalty-success-to-extend-spain-s-streak.html
Four years after his penalty kick
started  Spain ’s run of success in major tournament knockout
matches,  Cesc Fabregas  kept the streak alive by sending his team
into soccer’s European Championship final.  Fabregas, whose penalty in a shootout against  Italy  at Euro
2008 secured a semifinal berth, again struck the winning kick
last night as Spain beat  Portugal  4-2 on penalties after the
teams were tied 0-0 following extra time in Donetsk, Ukraine.  “I had a feeling I was going to score,” said Fabregas,
who collapsed under the weight of his teammates who swamped him
after his penalty kick went in off the post. “I had a feeling
this was going to happen. It felt like déjà vu.”  After Fabregas’s 2008 spot-kick success, Spain went on to
win that year’s European Championship, the 2010  World Cup  and is
now one victory away from becoming the first team to repeat as
European champion. It will face Italy or record three-time
winner  Germany  in the July 1 final in Kiev.  Barcelona midfielder Fabregas, who came on early in the
54th minute to replace striker Alvaro Negredo, had been slated
to take the second penalty last night before convincing Spain
coach Vicente Del Bosque to put him fifth in the order, as he
had been four years ago against Italy in Vienna.  “When I stepped up to take the penalty I said to the ball
that we had to make history and it shouldn’t let me down,”
Fabregas told reporters at the Donbass Arena. “I talked to the
ball four years ago and it didn’t let me down.”  Fifth Kick  While Spain’s change of strategy in the shootout worked,
Portugal’s decision to leave captain  Cristiano Ronaldo  until the
fifth kick floundered.  Ronaldo, for whom Real Madrid paid a record 80 million
pounds ($125 million) in 2009, had six shots during the match.
As he paced in preparation for his penalty kick, teammate Bruno
Alves struck the crossbar to give Fabregas the chance to win it.  Ronaldo, who scored three times in Portugal’s five Euro
2012 games, said he asked coach Paulo Bento to let him go last.  “It’s frustrating to lose that way,” Ronaldo told
reporters as he prepared to board the Portugal bus.  The match had gone to extra time after Portugal disrupted
Spain’s passing game and limited it to one shot on target from
Xavi Hernandez that was gathered by goalkeeper Rui Patricio.  Familiar Faces  Portugal made quick breaks through Ronaldo and Nani, and
Ronaldo almost squeezed a shot past Iker Casillas, one of his
four Real Madrid teammates playing for the opposition.  Xabi Alonso , who also plays with Ronaldo at the Bernabeu,
was yellow carded in the 82nd minute for scything the Portuguese
captain down as he raced toward goal.  “It’s OK, on the pitch, we’re not friends,” Ronaldo said
when asked about getting rough treatment from his clubmates.
“Outside, yes.”  Andres Iniesta , who helped Spain win its first global
championship two years ago by scoring the latest goal in a World
Cup final, may have prevented the need for penalties after
taking a pass from Jordi Alba in front of goal with seven
minutes of extra time remaining.  The Barcelona midfielder put his shot from four yards too
close to the Portuguese goalkeeper, who diverted the ball away.
Neither team was able to create another clear chance.  Although Patricio dived to his left to save the first
penalty from Alonso, misses from Joao Moutinho and Alves gave
Fabregas the chance to send Spain into its third straight final
at a major tournament. The last team to get the better of Spain
in a European Championship or World Cup knockout match was
 France  in 2006.  “Cesc told me he wanted to take the fifth penalty because
it was the decisive one,”  Del Bosque  said. “Whoever our
opponents are, the final will be a great match. But we don’t
care who our opponents are.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja at the Donbass Arena in Donetsk via the London
newsroom at   tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  