-- Fairfax Had ‘Massive’ Loss in Morgan Keegan Case: Judge
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-06-28T19:30:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/fairfax-had-massive-loss-in-morgan-keegan-case-judge-says-1-.html
Canadian insurer  Fairfax Financial
Holdings Ltd. (FFH)  suffered “massive” economic loss because of a
campaign of negative information that led it to sue
broker-dealer Morgan Keegan & Co. and Exis Capital Management
Inc., a judge ruled.  A state judge in Morristown, New Jersey, narrowed the
lawsuit yesterday, dismissing a claim against Morgan Keegan,
Exis and two others, while allowing three claims to go to trial
on Sept. 10. Fairfax seeks $8 billion in damages through its
lawsuit, filed in 2006.  Fairfax, which owns stakes in Canadian and U.S. insurers,
claims that Morgan Keegan and Exis coordinated with stock
analysts to drive down its stock price by spreading false rumors
in a so-called bear raid.  “There is no question that there was a campaign of
negative information being circulated about Fairfax,” Superior
Court Judge Stephan Hansbury ruled. “There is absolutely no
question in this litigation, and defendants do not contest, that
plaintiffs’ suffered massive pecuniary/economic loss in this
case.”  Earlier Dismissals  The judge dismissed a claim of tortious interference with
prospective economic advantage, while letting Toronto-based
Fairfax proceed to trial on claims of conspiracy, trade libel
and tortious interference with contract. Seven of the eight
 hedge funds  that Fairfax originally sued, including  Steven A. Cohen ’s SAC Capital Advisors LP, earlier won dismissal from the
case.  “This decision clears the way for plaintiffs to present
their substantial claims to a jury,” said Fairfax attorney
Michael Bowe in an e-mail. The judge “acknowledges the
indisputable facts that defendants widely disparaged plaintiffs
and inflicted enormous harm doing so.”  Eric Bran, a spokesman for Memphis, Tennessee-based Morgan
Keegan, had no immediate comment on the judge’s ruling. Raymond
James Financial Inc. last month completed a $1.2 billion
acquisition of Morgan Keegan from  Regions Financial Corp. (RF)  Andrew Heller, chief operating officer for Exis, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment.  Bowe, of Kasowitz Benson Torres & Friedman LLP in  New York ,
said that Superior Court Judge Donald Coburn will oversee the
trial in September.  The case is Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. v. SAC Capital
Management LLC, L-2032-06, Superior Court of  New Jersey , Morris
County (Morristown).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in  Newark , New Jersey at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  