-- Falcone Spent on Private Jet While Borrowing for Taxes
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n ,   S a i j e l   K i s h a n   a n d   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-06-28T19:24:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/falcone-spent-on-private-jet-while-borrowing-for-taxes.html
In early 2009, hedge-fund manager
 Philip Falcone  was living the life of a newly made billionaire.
He had started extensive renovations on a $49 million Manhattan
mansion once owned by Penthouse publisher Bob Guccione. He
traveled on a private jet, employed body guards and funded his
wife Lisa’s new career as a film producer.  He was also behind an estimated $113 million in personal
taxes.  To pay for the shortfall, Falcone didn’t want to use his
own assets, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said in
a lawsuit against Falcone yesterday. The manager didn’t take a
 bank loan  backed by his hockey team investments, Caribbean
vacation home or art collection. Instead, he borrowed cash from
one of his Harbinger Capital Partners LLC funds, using his
clients’ money without their knowledge, according to the suit.  The regulator alleged he favored some investors, which
people familiar with the firm said included  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) , and engaged in market manipulation, according to the
lawsuit, which also named Peter Jenson, the hedge fund’s former
chief operating officer. If the SEC wins its case, it will seek
to ban Falcone from serving as an officer or director of any
public company, foiling his ambitions to become the next  Warren
Buffett .  The “charges read like the final exam in a graduate course
in how to operate a hedge fund unlawfully,”  Robert Khuzami , the
SEC’s enforcement director in  Washington , said in a statement.
“Clients and market participants alike were victimized.”  Second Blow  The lawsuit is the second blow in less than two months for
Falcone, 49, a former Harvard hockey center whose hedge fund
rose to $26 billion in 2008 with a successful bet against
subprime mortgages. Having since suffered $23 billion in losses
and withdrawals from the peak, Falcone is fighting to keep
control of his empire. LightSquared Inc., Harbinger Capital’s
biggest investment, filed for bankruptcy in May.  Falcone declined to comment through Lew Phelps, a spokesman
for New York-based Harbinger.  “The notion propagated by the SEC that investors were
harmed by that conduct or any other is not only irresponsible
but completely unsupported by any evidence,” Matthew Dontzin,
an attorney for Falcone, said in a statement, adding that all
the charges will be “vigorously defended in the courthouse.”  In 2009, Falcone took a $113 million loan from his Special
Situations fund to pay personal taxes, according to the SEC,
while clients were barred from pulling money. Falcone took the
loan when about 60 percent of the fund’s investors had
unfulfilled requests to redeem. Falcone didn’t seek approval
from fund investors for the loan, according to the suit.  Advice Ignored  Falcone and Jenson, 46, disregarded the advice of one  law
firm  about whether to borrow money from the fund. That company
said that “lending money to principals is not part of the
fund’s investment program,” according to the SEC.  The law firm was New York-based Schulte Roth & Zabel LLP,
according to two people familiar with the matter.  Carolyn
Sargent , a spokeswoman for the firm, declined to comment.  The SEC alleged that Jenson misrepresented the facts to a
second law firm, which did eventually give Harbinger an opinion
letter. The inaccuracies included that the tax liability was
unexpected and that Falcone had no other viable source of
funding, the suit said. The SEC didn’t identify the law firm.  Falcone delayed disclosing the loan for five months, the
SEC said. He repaid the debt in full last year, after the SEC
began its investigation, according to the lawsuit.  Goldman Treatment  Charles Clark, an attorney for Jenson, declined to comment.  Under the terms of the loan, Falcone was supposed to pay
interest equal to the cost of capital for the fund. At that
time, the fund was paying interest of 7 percent on an
outstanding loan. Falcone paid 3.66 percent, the SEC said.  The same year that Falcone took out the loan, he let some
large investors withdraw $169 million in return for their vote
to approve a plan to restrict client redemptions from a
different fund. Harbinger concealed these deals from the
independent directors and from fund investors, the SEC said. The
regulator said the investors were large banks and investment
firms, declining to name them.  Among the large clients were Goldman Sachs, which at the
end of 2008 had $1 billion invested in two Harbinger funds,
Pacific Alternative Asset Management Co., a fund-of-funds based
in  Irvine ,  California , and London-based HSBC Holdings Plc’s
private-banking group, according to two people with knowledge of
the deals who asked not to be named.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, declined to
comment, as did Katrina Allen, a spokeswoman for Paamco, and
Robert Sherman, a New York-based spokesman for HSBC.  Minnesota Roots  Falcone grew up in Chisholm,  Minnesota , the youngest of
nine children. His mother was a factory worker, and his father
worked at the local utility. After graduating from  Harvard
University  in 1984, he joined a professional hockey team in
 Sweden , where he played until he was sidelined by a leg injury.
He ended up on Wall Street in the mid-1980s and worked for firms
including Kidder, Peabody & Co. in  New York .  In 2001, he started Harbinger with a $25 million investment
from Harbert Management Corp., a Birmingham, Alabama-based
money-management company. In 2006, he put on wagers against the
U.S. housing market that made him rich. With the proceeds of
that bet Falcone bought the 27-room mansion. He and Lisa became
benefactors of New York’s High Line elevated park and the  New
York City Ballet .  LightSquared Bet  Lisa, who was raised in Spanish Harlem by a single mother
on welfare, started her film and music production company,
Everest Entertainment, in 2008. That year, they also bought a
$39 million property on the island of St. Barts -- the most
expensive home purchase in the island’s history at that time. He
owns a Gulfstream V jet and a minority stake in the Minnesota
Wild professional hockey team.  After the successful housing wager, Falcone tied his
fortune as hedge-fund manager, and about $3 billion of investor
assets, to LightSquared, which accounted for about 40 percent of
the firm’s main fund as of April. Most hedge-fund managers have
shunned illiquid holdings since the 2008 financial crisis, when
they were forced to block client redemptions to avoid a fire
sale, and investors have complained about the level of
concentration in Falcone’s funds.  LightSquared filed for bankruptcy after the Federal
Communications Commission said it would withdraw preliminary
approval to build out a nationwide high-speed wireless network
because it interfered with GPS devices. Last week, an affiliate
of the company filed court papers seeking to borrow as much as
$30 million to keep operating while under court protection from
bankruptcy.  Mimicking Buffett  In an interview in April, Falcone said he was seeking to
move away from  hedge funds  and build a public holding company,
much like Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , that would be
better suited for long-term investments.  To that end, Falcone’s funds in 2009 bought Zapata Corp., a
onetime oil driller, and turned it into Harbinger Group, a
holding company that can raise capital for long-term
investments. Falcone plans to use Harbinger Group to finance
investments in six industries, including consumer and financial
products and natural resources, according to a 2010 regulatory
filing.  Harbinger Group  fell  13 percent on June 26, the biggest
drop since 1999, after Bloomberg News reported the SEC may sue
Falcone, who is the company’s chief executive officer and
chairman. Falcone would be barred from those roles if the SEC
lawsuit succeeds.  MAAX Bonds  Beginning in 2006, Falcone and two of his funds engaged in
a short-squeeze of MAAX Holdings Inc. bonds, a transaction in
which a buyer limits the supply of a security to drive up prices
and cause losses for investors betting against the security,
according to the lawsuit.  Falcone, who had bought a large position in the bonds in
April and June of 2006, was making the move amid speculation
that a  Wall Street  firm was betting against MAAX bonds and
encouraged clients to do the same, the SEC said.  “In September 2006, Falcone directed the Harbinger-managed
funds to buy every available bond in the market, often
purchasing the bonds from short sellers,” the SEC said.
“Ultimately, Falcone raised the funds’ stake to approximately
13 percent more than the available supply of the MAAX bonds.”  Having seized control of the supply of the bonds, Falcone
demanded that the Wall Street firm settle their short sales,
effectively forcing short-sellers to buy the bonds at prices
Falcone set arbitrarily.  Harbert Settles  The SEC didn’t identify the Wall Street firm. The firm was
Goldman Sachs, according to the people, who asked not to be
named because the information is private. DuVally at Goldman
Sachs declined to comment.  Harbert Management settled a separate complaint by the SEC
that it failed to take appropriate steps to address Falcone’s
trade in MAAX bonds. The company agreed to pay $1 million,
without admitting or denying wrongdoing.  “We believe the resolution of this legacy matter is in the
best interest of our ongoing business, and are pleased to put
the matter behind us,” Tripp Kyle, a spokesman for Harbert,
said in an e-mailed statement. Harbert’s relationship with
Harbinger was terminated in March 2009.  In a separate administrative and cease-and-desist
proceeding, the SEC found that Harbinger engaged in illegal
trades in connection with the purchase of common stock in three
public offerings after having sold the same securities short
during a restricted period. Harbinger agreed to pay disgorgement
of $857,950, prejudgment interest of $91,838, and a civil
monetary penalty of $428,975, without admitting or denying the
findings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  