-- FHA Underestimates Mortgage Delinquency Rates, Study Says
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2012-07-10T15:10:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/fha-underestimates-mortgage-delinquency-rates-study-says.html
(Corrects story published June 28 to reflect changes to
study’s findings on loan delinquencies.)  More than 30 percent of the U.S.
 Federal Housing Administration  loans originated from 2007
through 2009 will be delinquent within five years and the
agency’s data underestimate that risk, according to a  study  by
the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  and  New York  University.  The research published this month used loan information
from data provider  CoreLogic Inc. (CLGX)  to track FHA-insured mortgages
and predict default rates based on borrower characteristics.  The FHA, part of the Department of Housing and Urban
Development, miscalculates risk because it counts refinanced
mortgages as successful loan terminations, even though the same
borrowers are refinancing into new mortgages backed by the
government insurer, according to the paper. The researchers
computed the risk of default by linking all of the loans
connected to each borrower.  “Having such a very large fraction of the people who
borrow from you become delinquent could never be regarded as
good public policy,” said Andrew Caplin, a professor of
economics at  New York University  and one of the study’s authors.  Within five years, fewer than 15 percent of FHA borrowers
with loans originated between 2007 and 2009 will have paid off
their mortgages either by selling their homes or through other
means, the paper said.  Latest Critique  The study is the latest in a series of critiques by Caplin
and others of the way the FHA tracks its financial health. The
agency, which took on more loans as private insurers left the
market in the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis, guarantees
about $1.1 trillion in home loans.  HUD spokeswoman Tiffany Thomas Smith declined to comment in
detail because the agency has not yet reviewed the study. The
FHA has defended its financial performance data and stressed
that the quality of its loans is improving.  “Credit quality of loans the agency has insured over the
past two years is the highest it has ever been,” the agency
said in a  fact sheet  posted on its website in March.  “Early-
payment default rates and current-period serious delinquency
rates are a fraction of those seen in earlier books at the same
point in their seasoning.”  Caplin said he is urging the agency to change its model for
computing  default risk .  “In the current method, we’re not building a future,” he
said. “If you can’t even look at the data right, how can you
possibly design the housing-finance institutions of the
future?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net  or  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  