-- First Woman President of South Korea Seen in Dictator’s Daughter
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-06-28T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/first-woman-president-of-south-korea-seen-in-dictator-s-daughter.html
The late President Park Chung Hee
left  South Korea  with two political legacies, as overseer of the
nation’s economic miracle and its longest-ruling dictator. Now
there’s a third: His daughter is front runner to become the
country’s first female president.  Park Geun Hye, 60, who led the  New Frontier  Party to an
unexpected majority in South  Korea ’s April 11 parliamentary
election, has topped opinion polls for 11 weeks, even though she
has yet to declare her candidacy for the Dec. 19 election. Park
may announce her candidacy as early as next week, according to
party officials.  The never-married, eldest daughter of the former leader has
supported her father’s export-led growth policies since becoming
acting first lady at 22 after her mother was killed in a bungled
North Korean attempt to assassinate the dictator. As demand
falls in  Europe  and youth unemployment rises, she faces the task
of embracing policies that may raise wages and broaden welfare
as popular support for the outgoing president slumps.  “The key agenda for this year’s election is not more jobs
but better jobs and better welfare,” said Lee Nae Young, a
political science professor at Korea University in  Seoul . “Park
Geun Hye has shown signs of inching closer to the center to a
more welfare-oriented stance on the economy.” Park declined
requests for an interview.  The winner in December will take over from President  Lee Myung Bak , whose non-renewable five-year term ends in February.
Lee faces mounting discontent for his failure to deliver on
election promises in 2007, when he beat Park to the party’s
nomination. The former chief executive officer of  Hyundai
Engineering & Construction Co. (000720)  pledged to set the economy on a
path of 7 percent annual growth to reach per-capita income of
$40,000 by 2017, pursuing policies based on industrial growth
similar to those of Park’s father.  Approval Drops  Instead, the global slowdown cut growth to 3.6 percent last
year, income disparity has risen, youth unemployment is nearly
double the national jobless rate and the benchmark Kospi stock
index has slid 10 percent in three months. Lee’s approval rating
has more than halved since he took office, to 28.6 percent in a
June 18-22 poll by Seoul-based Realmeter.  “Five years with Lee Myung Bak have taught voters that
blind pursuit of growth is not the priority anymore,” said Kang Won Taek, a political science professor at Seoul National
University. “Voters want someone who can offer not only growth
but also more quality jobs for all, with welfare.”  Yesterday, the  Finance Ministry  cut its growth estimate for
this year to 3.3 percent, from 3.7 percent, and announced 8.5
trillion won of spending to support the economy.  Lee’s support crumbled further last year when aides and
senior lawmakers were involved in a series of corruption
scandals, prompting Park’s appointment as leader of a crisis
commission to revive the party’s image.  ‘Must Change’  “If we want to be the trustworthy party, the people must
change and the policies must also change,” said Park in a
January speech announcing reforms that included changing the 15-
year name of the  Grand National Party  to New Frontier and toning
down a hard-line stance on  North Korea .  Both the ruling and opposition parties have named  job
creation  and welfare as top campaign issues.  “We don’t have a proper system set up to respond to aging,
temporary jobs and youth unemployment,” Park said at a forum
last November. “While the government has increased the budget
and implemented diverse policies, the people haven’t been able
to feel the effects.”  In distancing herself from the current president’s
policies, Park may also weaken government support for the
nation’s biggest companies, which have been rocked in the past
years by family infighting and corruption allegations.  Veer Away  “What Park will need to decide is how far left toward the
center they want to go with their welfare policies,” said
Yonsei University Professor Yang Seung Ham, who teaches
political science. “She may have to veer from her father’s
favored policy of supporting the big businesses to create jobs,
and turn to strengthening small- and medium-sized enterprises.”  Such a change would come after the central bank warned that
risks to growth from Europe’s slump are increasing. The  Bank of
Korea  kept borrowing costs unchanged for a 12th straight month
in June. Exports, which account for about half of gross domestic
product in  Asia ’s fourth largest economy, contracted for the
third consecutive month in May, with shipments to the European
Union slumping 16 percent from a year earlier in the first 20
days of the month, according to government statistics.  The graduate of Seoul’s Sogang University studied
electrical engineering to support her father’s policy of
promoting the country’s practical sciences.  Backing Chaebols  Park Chung Hee took power in a military coup in 1961 and
ruled until 1979, forging growth in automaking, steel and
shipping by backing the chaebols, family-run multinational
businesses like  Samsung Group , whose main electronics unit now
accounts for one fifth of the country’s gross domestic product.  Under his rule, per capita income expanded more than six-
fold, from $255 in 1970 to $1,693 in 1979, according to central
bank data. He altered the constitution to increase his power and
used torture, censorship and public executions to crack down on
dissidents and political opponents. His control of people’s
lives included bans on rock music, mini-skirts and long hair.  Park Geun Hye’s possible return to the presidential Blue
House would cap a political career that began with her duties as
acting first lady in 1974, a role that forced her to abandon her
studies in Paris. Five years later, after her father was
assassinated by his own spy chief, she dropped off the political
stage, spending the next 18 years in a life of seclusion and
philanthropy until another national crisis -- the 1997 Asian
financial slump -- brought her back.  Hope, Despair  “I couldn’t stand back and watch the strong economy that
my father envisioned, go to ruins,” Park said in her
autobiography, “Despair Trains Me and Hope Moves Me,”
published July 2007.  Park, who met the late North Korean leader  Kim Jong Il  in
Pyongyang in May 2002, has also softened the party’s stance
toward its Northern adversary, removing calls in its charter for
North Korea to improve human rights and abandon its communist
ideology.  Relations between the two sides slumped after President Lee
rolled back his predecessors’ “Sunshine Policy” of engagement.
In the tensions that followed, 50 South Koreans were killed in
2010 when a border island was shelled by the North and a South
Korean warship was sunk by a torpedo. The North has denied
sinking the vessel.  Software Magnate  Park’s main rivals in the election may include software
magnate Ahn Cheol Soo, 50, an independent whose business success
and donations to charity have won him support from younger
voters; and Moon Jae In, 59, a human-rights lawyer with the
opposition Democratic United Party, who was jailed in 1975 for
participating in street protests against the rule of Park’s
father.  Park leads the polls with 41.1 percent, versus Ahn’s 19.2
percent and Moon’s 15.1 percent, in a survey of 3,750 people on
June 18-22. The poll, by Seoul-based Realmeter, had a margin of
error of plus or minus 1.6 percentage points.  Park may have a tough time winning over younger voters who
have no memory of her father’s regime. The opposition parties
tend to perform better when there is greater youth turnout, the
National Election Commission said in a report this month that
analyzed the April 2012 parliamentary vote.  Snow White  “With her slightly outdated pant suits and that never-
changing 1970s hairstyle, she symbolizes tradition and the
conservative values of the ancien regime,” said Park Won Ho, a
Seoul National University professor who specializes in South
Korea’s voting orientation.  Park has made an effort to change the aloof profile that
earned her nicknames such as “Princess Geun Hye” or  Snow
White , making nationwide appearances during the campaign for the
April parliamentary election, smiling broadly and hugging
vegetable sellers.  Meanwhile, she retains support from many older voters who
remember the growth days of her father.  “Park spent her childhood and early adulthood at the Blue
House and has been in politics for over 20 years; no other
politician has that much training, experience or exposure,”
said Kim Sook, a 67-year-old shopkeeper in southeast Seoul.
“Life was tough under Park Chung Hee, but you could feel the
economy getting better. Now you don’t feel anything.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  