-- Forbo Abandons Possible Sale of Construction-Adhesives Unit
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2012-06-28T09:24:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/forbo-abandons-possible-sale-of-construction-adhesives-unit-1-.html
Forbo Holding AG (FORN) , the Swiss maker of
floor coverings, abandoned a sale of the remnants of its
adhesives business after talks with potential suitors ended.  Forbo evaluated the strategic options and pursued talks
with interested parties in the business, which has annual sales
of 100.4 million francs ($105 million), the Baar-based company
said today. It plans to keep construction-adhesives within the
group over the long term, spokeswoman Karin Marti said.  Chief Executive Officer This Schneider has largely
dismantled the once 1,400-worker strong bonding division,
selling an industrial-adhesives unit to H.B. Fuller in March for
370 million francs. The CEO now considers having construction-
glues sitting within the related flooring business as the best
way forward, though the situation could still be revisited at a
later date, according to Marti.  “Strategically it’s wrong to keep the adhesives business
as scale is missing and investments are probably required,”
said Serge Rotzer, an analyst at Bank Vontobel in Zurich in a
note to clients. “Better times should probably come back for a
disposal.”  Forbo initiated a structured sale process in February with
 Credit Suisse (CSGN)  as financial adviser and Baker & Mckenzie as legal
adviser. Schneider declined to provide information on the
bidders. Credit Suisse also advised Forbo on the HB Fuller deal.  Consolidation  Adhesive makers are consolidating to build scale and expand
their operations globally, with  Henkel AG (HEN3)  last month agreeing to
buy an adhesives operation from  Cytec Industries Inc. (CYT)  for $105
million.  An additional litmus test to gauge investor interest in
construction chemicals will be  Wendel SA (MF) ’s possible sales of
aluminates and admixtures units, valued at a potential 1 billion
euros ($1.3 billion). Sale processes are ongoing, people with
knowledge of the situation have said.  Forbo’s construction adhesives unit has 270 employees and
its main markets are the Benelux region,  Germany ,  Russia , and
eastern  Europe . Production facilities are located in the
Netherlands, Germany, and Russia, Forbo said.  “We see a good potential of stepping up cooperation with
the flooring systems division in systems solutions, for example
additional flooring-related equipment and accessories,” Marti
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  