-- Ford Says Operating Profit Substantially Lower in Quarter
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-06-29T20:08:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/ford-says-operating-profit-substantially-lower-in-quarter.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , the second-largest
U.S. automaker, said its pretax operating profit will be
“substantially lower” in the second quarter in part because
overseas losses tripled from the year’s first three months.  Ford will be profitable and have positive operating cash
flow in the three months ending June 30, according to a filing
yesterday with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Ford
said it expects “strong results” from its North American
operations, while pretax losses in Europe,  South America  and
 Asia  could reach $570 million.  “Our operations outside of  North America  are under
increasing pressure,” the Dearborn, Michigan-based company said
in the filing. “Our combined results for the second quarter for
Ford South America, Ford  Europe , and Ford Asia Pacific Africa
could be a loss of about three times as much as the $190 million
pretax loss incurred by these operations in the first quarter.”  Ford said market conditions in Europe have “deteriorated
significantly” since the beginning of the year and it expects
pressure on profit margins in the region “for the foreseeable
future.” The automaker also will incur costs from introducing
new models this year, including a new Fusion sedan and Escape
sport-utility vehicle in the U.S.  Shares slid 5 percent to $9.59 at the close in  New York ,
the lowest since Oct. 3. Ford has declined 11 percent this year.  European Deficit  Ford has previously said it expected to lose between $500
million and $600 million in Europe this year as a stubborn
sovereign debt crisis saps  consumer confidence  and lowers auto
sales industrywide. That has left the region with too many auto
factories as vehicle demand declines. Ford had a pretax loss of
$149 million in Europe in the first three months of the year.  European pretax losses this year may now exceed $1.1
billion for Ford and be greater than the deficit  General Motors
Co. (GM)  may face in the region, Adam Jonas, an analyst with Morgan
Stanley, wrote in a note yesterday. Ford is using just 63
percent of its European factory capacity, Jonas estimated.  Ford’s filing “serves as a wake-up call to investors and
governments alike,” wrote Jonas, who rates Ford “overweight”
and cut his full-year earnings estimate 14 percent to $1.30 a
share. “Ford must reduce capacity urgently. It won’t be easy,
but we believe they have the balance sheet and political will to
pull it off.”  European ‘Quagmire’  “Europe is a quagmire for everybody, but especially
General Motors and Ford,” Michelle Krebs, an analyst with
researcher Edmunds.com, said in an interview yesterday. “Ford
has to figure out a different business model to be profitable in
Europe. It has to be reinvented.”  Ford has not said it will close a plant in Europe. The
company is developing new plans for the region, said Jay Cooney,
a company spokesman.  “It’s too early to say what those plans involve,” Cooney
said in an interview yesterday. “Our philosophy is to always
align capacity with demand.”  GM, based in  Detroit , is attempting to revamp its European
operations, which have posted losses of $16.4 billion since
1999. Morgan Stanley’s Jonas estimated GM’s Opel unit is using
66 percent of its plant capacity, slightly better than Ford.  ‘Economic Crisis’  Automakers are discounting heavily in Europe to try to
stimulate demand, which is corroding profit margins, Krebs said.
Closing excess factories in Europe is difficult because of
strong labor unions and government resistance, she said.  “Volkswagen and GM are being very aggressive with
incentives,” Krebs said. “Ford has not been involved to that
degree and that is costing them sales. If they get in the game,
then it will cost them profits.”  Ford said the “serious economic crisis” in Europe is
“compounded by an intensifying competitive environment as
manufacturers react to lower consumer demand and excess
production capacity.”  In Asia, Ford is losing money because it said it
“continues to invest and pay for future growth.” Ford is
spending $4.9 billion on nine new factories in Asia and
introducing 15 new models by 2015 in  China , where it had 2.8
percent market share last year, trailing GM and  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)   “Ford is investing a ton of money in Asia because they’re
late to the game,” Krebs said. “They’ve got to be very
aggressive there.”  Losses in South America are due to “growing competitive
and pricing pressures, as well as weakening currencies and
unexpected and adverse changes in government policies affecting
areas such as trade and access to foreign currency,” Ford said
in the filing.  North America  Even North America, where Ford earned a pretax profit of
$2.1 billion in the first quarter, the most since at least 2000,
is under pressure from costs of the new model introductions, the
automaker said.  “We expect the second quarter to be profitable, although
strong results from Ford North America and  Ford Credit  will be
partially offset by the combined results from our operations
outside of North America,” Ford said in its filing. “We are
developing actions to address the challenges outside of North
America.” Ford Credit is the company’s consumer-finance unit.  Ford said it’s “evaluating the impact of the pressures
outside of Ford North America” on its full-year forecast this
year and will provide an update when it releases second-quarter
results next month.  Ford has said it expects total company pretax profits to be
“about equal” to 2011’s $8.8 billion or $1.51 a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Bill Koenig  at 
 wkoenig@bloomberg.net  