-- Fracking Can Be Undertaken Safely in U.K., Royal Society Says
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2012-06-28T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/fracking-can-be-undertaken-safely-in-u-k-royal-society-says.html
Hydraulic fracturing, known as
fracking, to exploit shale gas reserves can be carried out
safely in the U.K. if it’s effectively regulated, according to
the  Royal Society  and the  Royal Academy  of Engineering.  “There has been much speculation around the safety of
shale gas extraction following examples of poor practice in the
U.S.,” Robert Mair, chairman of the review’s working group,
said in an e-mailed statement today. “Well integrity is of key
importance but the most common areas of concern, such as the
causation of earthquakes with any significant impact or
fractures reaching and contaminating drinking water, were very
low risk.”  The U.K. has more natural gas trapped in shale rocks than
 Iraq  has in its traditional reserves, according to shale
explorer Cuadrilla Resources Ltd., which suspended drilling last
year after causing minor earthquakes. It said last month that it
plans to resume work this year and begin production in 2014.  Fracking operations should be allowed to resume in the U.K.
as long as “robust” measures are adopted to safeguard against
future risks, an independent report commissioned by the
Department of Energy and Climate Change recommended in April.
Hydraulic fracturing has a fraction of a 1 percent chance of
causing unintended cracks in the earth beyond 600 meters (656
yards), according to research by Durham University published in
Marine and Petroleum Geology on April 25.  Fracking uses water, sand and chemicals to open fissures in
rocks and release gas. It has made the U.S. the world’s largest
producer of the fuel.  France  was the first country to outlaw
hydraulic fracturing of shale rocks last July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  