-- Fund Managers Face Longer Wait for Bonuses Under EU Rules
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-06-28T11:21:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/fund-managers-face-longer-wait-for-bonus-payouts-under-eu-rules.html
Senior hedge-fund and private-equity
managers face longer waits for bonuses under proposals from the
European Union’s top markets regulator.  Bonuses for risk-taking employees should be withheld for a
certain length of time to align managers’ interests with the
long-term performance of the fund, the European Securities and
Markets Authority said today. Staff with the “most material
impact on the risk profile” of the fund should be subject to
longer retention periods, ESMA said without specifying how long.  “The proposed remuneration guidelines for alternative
investment funds are an important step in creating a single EU
rulebook by ensuring the consistent application” of bonus laws
approved by ministers, Steven Maijoor, chairman of Paris-based
ESMA, said in an e-mailed statement.  Payouts for managers at financial firms have been under
scrutiny from regulators and lawmakers since the fall of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.  Robert Diamond , chief executive
officer of Barclays Plc, said yesterday he would forgo his bonus
after the bank was fined $451 million for submitting false
London and euro interbank rates.  European finance ministers in 2010 approved a law, known as
the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive, which gave
ESMA power to set rules for  hedge funds  and private equity
firms, regulating their pay and access to EU investors.  Member
states  have until July 2013 to implement the directive.  National authorities should judge whether the bonus
retention periods proposed by hedge funds and private equity
firms are sufficient, ESMA said.  Severance Pay  Hedge funds and private equity firms have until Sept. 27 to
comment on ESMA’s proposals, which also include provisions for
firms to set tougher frameworks determining severance pay for
risk-takers to avoid a “heads I win, tails I still win approach
to risk,” the agency said.  Firms should also avoid paying bonuses from a pool of
capital if “its financial situation would no longer be sound,”
the regulator said.  The U.K.’s  Financial Services Authority  began consulting
with industry members earlier this year on its implementation of
the European guidelines, considering the possibility of writing
specific pay rules for fund managers rather than including them
in those written for traders in large banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  