-- Heating Oil Falls on Concerns About U.S. and European Economies
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-06-28T19:56:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/gasoline-falls-on-concerns-about-u-s-and-european-economies.html
Heating oil slid on concern that
U.S. economic growth is stalled and that European leaders won’t
reach a consensus on how to contain the region’s debt crisis,
which is threatening the global recovery and fuel demand.  Futures fell as the  U.S. economy  grew 1.9 percent in the
first quarter, less than the 3 percent gain the prior quarter,
Commerce Department figures showed. First-time jobless  claims 
fell 6,000 to 386,000 last week, hovering near the highest level
of the year, the Labor Department reported. European leaders are
meeting at an economic summit in Brussels today.  “Everybody is waiting to see if the Europeans come up with
some kind of plan to avert further problems in their peripheral
countries,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at
Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “We continue to see
signs the U.S. recovery is stalled.”  Heating oil for July delivery fell 4.18 cents, or 1.6
percent, to settle at $2.5519 a gallon on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , the first drop in five days. Prices have
lost 5.7 percent this month and are down 19 percent since March
30. The more actively traded August contract declined 4.3 cents
to $2.5472.  July-delivery gasoline lost 0.62 cent to settle at $2.6142
a gallon. Prices have fallen 7.5 percent this month and are down
23 percent in the quarter. The contract is for reformulated
gasoline, or RBOB. The August contract retreated 2.16 cents, or
0.9 percent, to $2.4773.  Heating oil and gasoline contracts for July delivery will
expire at the close of floor trading tomorrow.  Jobless Claims  The prior week’s jobless claims reading was revised up to
392,000 from 387,000, matching an April figure as the steepest
of 2012. Payrolls in May expanded by 69,000 workers, the slowest
pace in a year, and have cooled each month since January.  “In the U.S., we’ve ruined our streak of better-than-
expected economic data and the market is not expecting a lot of
progress from the economic summit in Europe,” said  Phil Flynn ,
senior market analyst at Price Futures Group in  Chicago .  European Union leaders focused on immediate help for Spain
and Italy at the start of a two-day summit intended to chart a
path out of their financial crisis.  The 27 government chiefs will discuss buying Spanish and
Italian government bonds to bring down borrowing costs that are
near euro-era records, Finnish Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen 
said. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , leader of the region’s
largest economy, opposes any kind of risk sharing, putting her
in opposition to leaders of France, Italy and Spain, who favor
joint euro-area bonds and measures to spur growth.  “The market is looking for its next move out of the EU
summit, waiting to see if its pessimistic view should be
confirmed or not,” said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil
Associates LLC in Houston.  Regular  gasoline  at the pump, averaged nationwide, fell 1.4
cents to $3.369 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA. It was the
lowest level since Jan. 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  