-- Gazprom to Return $600 Million to EU Gas Buyers on Discounts
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2012-06-28T12:36:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/gazprom-to-return-600-million-to-eu-buyers-this-year-correct-.html
OAO Gazprom (GAZP) ,  Russia ’s natural-gas
export monopoly, will return at least 20 billion rubles ($600
million) this year to European buyers under agreements to award
retroactive discounts, Chief Accountant Elena Vasilieva said.  Eni SpA (ENI) , Italy’s biggest oil and gas producer, will receive
“a lion’s share” of the payments, which totaled 20 billion
rubles as of June, Vasilieva, who’s also a deputy chief
executive officer, told reporters today in Moscow.  Customers in  Europe , Gazprom’s biggest market by revenue,
have sought changes to their purchasing contracts with Gazprom
after the 2008 recession cut demand, dragging spot prices below
the long-term contract levels. Gazprom ties its contracts to
prices for crude and refined-oil products with a time lag of as
much as nine months.  At the start of the year, Gazprom agreed with a group of
European customers including Eni to cut gas prices by about 10
percent. The gas prices for previous years have been lowered,
meaning the Moscow-based company needs to make retroactive
payments to the clients. The gas producer said it didn’t raise
the weight of spot indexation in its multiyear contracts.  ‘Active Talks’  Contract talks are taking place now only with EON Ruhrgas,
 RWE AG (RWE) ’s Czech unit and  Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i Gazownictwo
SA , known as PGNiG, where decisions are expected soon, Deputy
CEO  Alexander Medvedev  said June 20. The three remain in
arbitration with Gazprom over prices and volumes after losing
billions of euros buying fuel at above-market rates and selling
gas-fired power at a loss.  Medvedev is in “active talks” with partners on the
payments, Chief Financial Officer Andrey Kruglov said at the
same briefing today. The final amount of the payments will
depend on the outcome of the talks, he said.  RWE isn’t yet close to an agreement with Gazprom, Rolf Martin Schmitz, the German utility’s chief operating officer,
said yesterday. “Our ideas still don’t coincide,” he said,
adding that RWE expects the completion of the talks in 2012 or
2013. “The Russians still aren’t willing to change.”  Gazprom’s revenue forecast of $160 billion for this year
already includes funds budgeted for the retroactive payments,
Kruglov said. That compares with $158 billion of revenue for
last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  