-- GE Targets Africa to Asia With Off-Grid Power Generators
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2012-06-28T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/ge-targets-africa-to-asia-with-off-grid-power-generators.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  is focusing on
developing economies from Africa to Asia as it seeks to boost
sales of electrical turbines derived from jet engines and
generators that can provide power by burning landfill gas.  The company is changing the way it markets and sells
equipment that can provide power independent of a nation’s
electrical grid in an effort to increase its appeal to customers
in  emerging markets  that may need as little as 1 megawatt of
generation capacity, said Darryl Wilson, GE’s president of
aeroderivative gas turbines, in an interview.  The market for off-grid power equipment, from rooftop solar
panels to fuel cells, that can be brought online quickly in
remote areas, may grow to $100 billion a year, Fairfield,
Connecticut-based GE has said. Its energy division accounted for
31 percent of the company’s $142.2 billion in revenue last year,
making it the largest industrial division.  “There’s a significant opportunity to address these needs
around the world,” Wilson said by telephone yesterday from the
 Africa  Energy Forum conference in Berlin. “In the past,
customers might not have come to us unless they needed large
increments of power, but now they’ll be thinking of us much
sooner.”  GE is bundling products from its Jenbacher gas engines to
its TM2500+ jet engine-derived turbines and diesel generators
under a new PowerXpand-branded portfolio, the company said in a
statement yesterday.  The company sold a pair of Jenbacher gas-powered engines to
 Diageo Plc (DGE) , the maker of Guinness beer, for its breweries in
Nigeria, Diageo said in a statement on June 26. Its first jet-
engine derived turbine in Algeria began operation earlier this
week, Wilson said.  GE, the world’s biggest maker of  jet engines , power
generation equipment and health-care imaging devices, is
increasing its focus on faster-growing, resource-rich countries
from Mozambique to Peru and Australia. These markets may provide
50 percent of industrial sales by 2020, up from 37 percent last
year, according to a presentation to investors in  Rio de Janeiro 
in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in  New York  at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  