-- German June Unemployment Rises as Crisis Starts to Bite
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-06-28T09:12:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/german-unemployment-rose-in-june-as-euro-crisis-started-to-bite.html
German unemployment climbed in June
for the fourth month this year as the debt crisis in the euro
region weighed on companies’ willingness to create jobs.  The number of people out of work rose a seasonally adjusted
7,000 to 2.88 million, the Nuremberg-based Federal Labor Agency
said today. Economists forecast an increase of 3,000, the median
of 30 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey shows. The adjusted
jobless rate held at 6.8 percent after last month’s rate was
revised up from 6.7 percent.  “Signs are increasing that the resilience of the German
labor market is slowly cracking up,”  Carsten Brzeski , an
economist at ING Group in Brussels, said in a note to investors.
“This might not be a cause for concern for the German economy,
yet, but definitely for the rest of the  euro zone .”  Rising joblessness in  Europe ’s biggest economy underscores
the deepening financial crisis in the 17-nation euro area as the
turmoil shifts from states on the region’s periphery such as
Greece and Ireland to core members Spain and  Italy .  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  and fellow European Union leaders begin a summit
in Brussels today that aims to address the widening turmoil.  German  government bonds  stayed higher after the report. The
yield on the bund maturing July 2022 was five basis points lower
at 1.52 percent at 11:05 a.m. in Berlin. The euro reversed an
advance against the dollar, trading down 0.3 percent at $1.2433.  Labor Demand  In  Germany , the impact began to be felt in October, when a
27-month drop in unemployment ended. The labor agency said
yesterday that its  BA-X index  of labor demand slumped six points
in June to 165, the biggest drop since January 2009, when
Germany was in recession.  Unemployment rose last month by 1,000 after revisions, the
labor agency said today.  Commerzbank AG, Germany’s second-largest lender, will close
its commercial real estate and ship-finance businesses, the
company said June 26. Commerzbank decided to “further reduce
risks in a consistent manner” as “a swift end to the euro
crisis is not in sight,” Chief Executive Officer  Martin Blessing  said in an internal document sent to employees.  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  plans to cut 1,300 positions at its
headquarters by 2015 without firing workers, Frankfurter
Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung said June 23, citing Marion Schick,
the board member responsible for human resources.  Business Climate  The Munich-based Ifo institute’s June business climate
index, based on a survey of 7,000 executives, dropped to the
lowest reading since March 2010. The ZEW Center for European
Economic Research in Mannheim said June 19 that its index of
investor and analyst expectations recorded its steepest decline
since October 1998 in June.  “Companies are holding back with investments and aren’t
looking for labor as much any more” in Germany said Norbert Braems, an economist at Sal Oppenheim Jr and Cie KGaA, who cut
his growth forecast for the country to 1 percent this year from
1.3 percent. Looking ahead, “we would expect a moderate
increase in unemployment unless we enter a fresh phase of
escalation” in the crisis, he said.  Since posting growth of 0.5 percent in the first quarter,
Germany’s economy has cooled, with factory orders dropping the
most in five months in April. The economy’s expansion is set to
slow in the course of the year, the  Finance Ministry  said June
20 in its monthly report.  Weise ‘Tense’  “Demand for labor has receded somewhat from a high
level,” labor agency head Frank-Juergen Weise told reporters in
Nuremberg. While he doesn’t expect a trend change in the labor
market this year, Weise said he’s “tense” about the outlook
for 2013.  German growth will slow to 1 percent in 2013 from an
estimated 2 percent this year and the risk that Germany will
enter a recession has “risen markedly,” the Kiel Economics
Institute said June 26. The European Commission expects the
euro-area economy to shrink 0.3 percent this year, with at least
eight  member states  already in recession.  Even so, average euro area unemployment this year may be
twice that of Germany, the Commission said May 11. Germany’s
jobless rate was 5.4 percent in April, according to the latest
harmonized Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
figures. That compared with 8.1 percent in the U.S., 10.2
percent in  France  and Italy and a euro-area average of 11
percent.  The  European Central Bank  kept its benchmark lending rate
at a record low of 1 percent on June 6. To help revive growth in
the euro region, “a few” policy makers called for a further
cut, ECB President  Mario Draghi  said after the last meeting,
fueling speculation the bank could act next month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  