-- Germans Taking the Wrong Lessons From History of Default
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y n o l d s   N e l s o n
-- 2012-06-28T16:41:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/germans-taking-the-wrong-lessons-from-history-of-default.html
Germans complaining about how
Greeks, Italians and Spaniards aren’t paying their debts is
a recurring feature of Europe’s debt crisis.  In May, German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
 declared  in a radio interview that “We Germans show that
it’s possible to have solid fiscal policy and generate
growth at the same time. We have the lowest unemployment.
Those recipes that work for us must be applied in other
countries and not the opposite.” A month later, he
 complained  that  Greece ’s crisis was due to “decades of
economic mismanagement.” And this week, he  said  U.S.
President  Barack Obama  “should, above all, deal with the
reduction of the American deficit.”  An earlier generation of investors would be shaking
their heads.  Germany  in the 1920s was synonymous with
default. After suffering serious hyperinflation following
World War I, Germans received the kinds of loans and debt-
restructuring plans from the U.S. that Schaeuble and the
German parliament are furious about offering to Greece and
others today. Germans were considered the unhealthiest
borrowers in the world, though that didn’t stop American
companies such as National City Bank and Dillon, Read & Co
from lending in what historians call “the great bond boom”
of the 1920s.  German Recipes  Herbert Hoover , then the U.S. secretary of commerce,
was troubled by what seemed like reckless lending to German
municipalities. But, perhaps believing in German “recipes”
for sound fiscal policy, he gave official consent to more
than $1 billion a year in foreign, high-yield, dollar-
denominated loans from 1924 to 1928. Hoover’s office even
issued a covering letter for these risky loans, asserting
that since they didn’t affect government policy, the U.S.
government had no objection to them.  Most of these loans went to fund construction projects
throughout Germany. They ended the hyperinflation, and U.S.
savings banks quickly snatched up the high-yield bonds,
confident that thrifty Germans would repay their debts.
Repayment plans were left sketchy at best.  Meanwhile, the German government still resented the
costly reparations imposed on it for World War I. In
October 1927, Seymour Parker Gilbert, the U.S. official
charged with extracting reparations, complained to the
German government that in taking on billions of dollars in
municipal loans while still owing so much money, Germany
was “living beyond its means.” Gilbert criticized Germany’s
system of tax payouts to its states, and warned that the
loans might never be repaid.  German political parties quickly dismissed Gilbert as
ignorant and disrespectful, and then used his report to
attack one another. The burghers of 1920s Germany would be
shocked today at Schaeuble’s demand for  Italy  to install a
technocratic government or for Greece to postpone its
elections.  But Gilbert was right; the Germans couldn’t repay
their loans. By late March 1928, German Finance Minister
Heinrich Koehler publicly confirmed what Gilbert had
guessed the year before: The billions borrowed for German
municipal loans might never be repaid. Koehler then said
local loans threatened to jeopardize the stability of the
new German currency. The  bond market  responded rapidly: By
the middle of 1928, values on U.S. loans to German
municipalities and corporations declined even faster than
Greek and Spanish bond prices have in recent months.  Inverted Yield  U.S. banks holding toxic German debt hastily bought up
long-term Treasury bonds. This created what economists call
an inverted yield curve, where the rates demanded for long-
term U.S. government debt were lower than those for short-
term debt. Inverted yield curves revealed borrowers’ fears
about the future; they signaled a coming recession.  Koehler’s dire pronouncement about Germany’s ability
to pay, his call for fiscal austerity, and the drastic drop
in American lending to Germany led to the collapse of
Germany’s Centre Party -- a political reaction not unlike
what we saw recently in France and Greece. On June 28,
1928, Socialist Hermann Mueller became chancellor at the
head of a “grand coalition” of social democrats.  By then, the U.S. market for German bonds was quite
weak. And as the Great Depression intensified, bad German
debt continued to act as a drag on the American economy.  Worse, it was a continuing source of instability. In
September 1930, when  Adolf Hitler  testified in defense of
officers tried for treason in Ulm, he was asked what would
happen in Germany if he became chancellor. Hitler said
“heads will roll,” a new  Supreme Court  would be created
that would reassess foreign debts, and the fascist party
would “repudiate and smash all treaties forced on us. Then
revolution will be here.”  When this statement reached the U.S., German bonds
that had once sold at heavy discounts became worthless.
When Hitler came to power three years later, his government
did repudiate its public and private debts, claiming that
reparations combined with foreign debt had caused
widespread unemployment. Greek fascists today are making a
very similar argument.  The German government under  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
has drawn a shallow lesson from the country’s own past as a
defaulter. It fears only deficits and inflation. But there
were other lessons that Germany learned in the 1920s that
are returning painfully in Greece,  Spain , Italy and Ireland
today. The threat of debt default opens a sovereign state
to creditors who will demand changes to its internal
workings and undermine the legitimacy of its ruling
parties. It can also encourage politicians to embrace the
most reckless plans.  The Unraveling  Today, the unraveling of political coalitions across
the European Union and a surge of right-wing parties
doesn’t suggest a replay of hyperinflation -- it suggests a
real threat to sovereignty. What hurt Germany most in the
1920s was not hyperinflation but the government’s own
doubts about the loans it received. Those doubts destroyed
the Centre Party and scared off international lenders,
which helped bring ruin to the world economy.  It has become a cliche to cite Hitler in arguments
about  Europe ’s future. But austerity laid the groundwork
for a man with a scapegoat, easy answers, and solutions
more horrifying than unpaid debts.  (Scott Reynolds Nelson teaches history at the College
of William and Mary. He is the author of “A Nation of
Deadbeats: An Uncommon History of America’s Financial
Disasters,” forthcoming from Alfred A. Knopf in September.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Scott Reynolds Nelson
at  srnels@wm.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy
Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  