-- Italian 10-Year Government Bonds Pare Decline After Sale
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-06-28T15:38:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/german-10-year-bonds-advance-before-eu-summit-italian-debt-sale.html
Spanish 10-year bond yields rose to
7 percent amid concern European Union leaders meeting for a two-
day summit in Brussels starting today will fail to agree on a
strategy to resolve the region’s debt crisis.  German bonds advanced for the first time in three days as
investors sought safer assets and a report showed unemployment
in  Europe ’s largest economy climbed in June. Italy’s borrowing
costs increased as the nation sold five- and 10-year debt.
Spanish bonds pared losses as the Wall Street Journal said
Germany may be willing to issue joint euro-area bonds sooner
than expected. Ten-year yields of 7 percent forced  Greece ,
Ireland and  Portugal  to seek sovereign bailouts.  “The summit is likely to take steps to outline a long-term
road map, but fail to deliver a quick fix to stabilize the
financial markets,” said Jamie Searle, a fixed-income
strategist at Citigroup Inc. in  London . “Italian and Spanish
bond yields are likely to remain under pressure.”  The Spanish  10-year yield  was little changed at 6.93
percent at 4:32 p.m. London time after climbing to 7.01 percent,
the highest since June 20. The yield rose to a euro-era record
of 7.29 percent on June 18. The 5.85 percent bond due in January
2022 dropped 0.015, or 15 euro cents per 1,000-euro ($1,244)
face amount, to 92.585.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , who has rejected calls to
do more to bring down Spanish and Italian borrowing costs,
appears isolated before the summit as French President  Francois Hollande , Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  and Spanish Premier
 Mariano Rajoy  have all called for greater urgency.  ‘Rapid Solutions’  “I’ve come for very rapid solutions to support countries
in difficulty on the markets,” Hollande told reporters in
Brussels. Without specifying Spain or Italy, he said they “have
made considerable efforts to deal with their public accounts.”  Spanish bonds trimmed declines after German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  was quoted by the Journal as saying
the nation is “willing to go as far as we need in order to get
a sustainable agreement in Europe.” The  Finance Ministry  in
Berlin denied he had signaled faster joint bond issuance.  German bunds rallied as the Federal Labor Agency said the
number of people out of work rose a seasonally adjusted 7,000 to
2.88 million. Economists forecast an increase of 3,000,
according to a Bloomberg News survey.  Bunds also advanced as a separate report showed economic
confidence in the euro area slumped in June. The index of
executive and consumer sentiment dropped to 89.9 from a revised
90.5 in May, the European Commission said.  ‘Spillover Effects’  “The confidence indicators confirm that the economy is not
in a good shape,” said Annalisa Piazza, a fixed-income analyst
at Newedge Group in London. “Spillover effects of the debt
crisis have started to affect also the more resilient economies
like Germany.”  The 10-year bund yield declined six basis points to 1.51
percent, approaching the record low 1.127 percent set on June 1.
The two-year yield dropped two basis points to 0.11 percent.  Italy ’s  10-year yield  reached a two-week high as the nation
sold 5.42 billion euros of five- and 10-year securities, less
than its Rome-based Treasury priced the 10-year debt to yield
6.19 percent, up from 6.03 percent at the previous auction on
May 30. The five-year note was sold at a yield of 5.84 percent,
versus 5.66 percent last month.  ‘Elevated Yields’  “They got it away but at elevated yields,” said Lyn Graham-Taylor, a fixed-income strategist at Rabobank
International in London. “You couldn’t have all of your debt
being financed at this rate. Italy is in a reasonable situation
from a budget perspective and they can deal with it for a while,
but it’s not something that can go on forever.”  Italy’s 10-year yield was little changed at 6.19 percent
after rising to 6.28 percent, the highest since June 14. The
 two-year yield  dropped 27 basis points to 4.33 percent.  Italian bonds handed investors a loss of 4.8 percent this
quarter, while Spanish debt fell 7.6 percent, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. German bonds returned 1.9 percent.  Volatility on Italian government debt was the highest in
euro-area markets today followed by  Germany  and  Finland ,
according to measures of 10-year bonds, the spread between two-
and 10-year securities, and credit-default swaps.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  