-- Gillard’s Bid to Break Asylum-Seeker Deadlock Looks Set to Fail
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-06-28T00:20:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/gillard-s-bid-to-break-asylum-seeker-deadlock-looks-set-to-fail.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s bid for legislation against people smuggling before a
six-week parliamentary hiatus looks set to fail amid reports of
a third boat carrying refugees in distress in a week.  The bill’s defeat in the Senate would be “very, very
disappointing,” Gillard said in a Channel 9 interview today.
“That means that our nation cannot have at its disposal the
most effective means of sending the strongest possible message
we want.” Another boat of asylum seekers may be in danger after
a fatal incident yesterday, she said without elaborating.  The minority Labor government is trying to resolve a
political stalemate over where to base offshore processing
centers for refugees who pay smugglers in  Indonesia  to ferry
them in overcrowded boats to  Australia . Gillard, trailing in
opinion polls, has lacked support in parliament to amend laws on
the issue ahead of elections due by November 2013.  “The voters are sick of the issue and want a clear policy
from the government to fix it,” said  Andrew Hughes , who
conducts political-marketing research at the  Australian National
University  in Canberra. “Resolving this would help show she’s a
strong leader and help her be seen as the one who’s setting the
agenda, and that’s what she really needs to do to gain momentum
before the next election.”  Four people were presumed dead and 130 rescued after a boat
sank yesterday, according to Australian Customs. There have been
at least four other fatal incidents of human trafficking since
2010, including June 21 when about 90 people may have died after
a boat capsized near Christmas Island, an Australian territory
used as an immigration detention center.  Senate Opposition  Legislation backed by Gillard’s Labor party to allow the
processing of asylum seekers on Australian soil as well as in
countries including  Malaysia  and Nauru passed the lower house
yesterday. The bill, proposed by independent lawmaker  Rob Oakeshott , passed with a so-called sunset clause, an amendment
allowing it to be reviewed after a year of operation.  The legislation now goes to the Senate, where the Greens
hold the balance of power and have said they will oppose it,
along with the Liberal-National opposition.  The bill won’t pass the Senate due to opposition from the
Greens, who oppose all offshore processing of refugees,
opposition leader  Tony Abbott  said yesterday. His coalition
won’t support it because it includes the option of creating a
processing center in Malaysia, which isn’t a signatory to the  UN
Refugee Convention , Abbott said.  War-Torn Nations  While both Gillard’s Labor and Abbott’s coalition have
supported offshore processing centers, they have failed to agree
on where they should be based.  A group of lawmakers, including independent members who
support the minority government, pressured party leaders
yesterday to reach a compromise. The refugees are often from
war-torn nations in the  Middle East  and  South Asia .  “My gut feeling is this will fall over in the Senate,”
Liberal lawmaker Mal Washer said in an Australian Broadcasting
Corp. radio interview today. More refugees will die before
parliament creates the right policy to combat people smugglers,
he said.  Abbott’s coalition wants a processing center re-established
in Nauru, an island nation in the South Pacific with about
10,000 residents that received aid in return for processing
refugees bound for Australia under former Prime Minister  John Howard ’s so-called Pacific Solution. He said yesterday turning
back boats from entering Australian waters was acceptable in
some circumstances.  Agreement Stymied  Gillard had proposed an arrangement with Malaysia under
which Australia would send about 800 asylum seekers to the
nation in return for accepting 4,000 people verified as
legitimate refugees by the  United Nations . That plan failed in
parliament in October, after the  High Court  in August declared
it illegal.  “UNHCR calls on Australia and countries in the region to
redouble their efforts to provide safer and more secure options
for people to find protection other than through these dangerous
and exploitative boat journeys,” the  UN Refugee Agency  said in
a June 22 statement.  Two years after ousting her predecessor  Kevin Rudd , the
party of Australia’s first female prime minister is slipping
further behind the Liberal-National opposition in opinion polls.  Labor’s primary vote fell 1 percentage point to 30 percent,
while support for the coalition increased 2 points to 46
percent, according to a Newspoll published in the Australian
newspaper June 25.  strq  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  