-- Gilt Yield Drops to Week Low as Home Prices Fall
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-06-28T15:26:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/gilt-yield-drops-to-week-low-as-home-prices-fall.html
Gilts rose for the first time in
three days after a  Bank of England  survey showed households and
companies faced tighter borrowing terms, fueling speculation the
central bank will resume asset purchases next month.  Ten-year  yields  dropped the most in a week as a government
report showed Britons’ disposable income declined in the first
quarter. Gilts extended gains on bets European Union leaders
will fail to agree on ways to contain the region’s debt crisis
at a two-day summit starting today in Brussels. The pound
weakened for a second day against the dollar.  The central bank’s “lending survey above all confirms to
people we are getting more quantitative easing next week,” said
 Marc Ostwald , a fixed-income strategist at Monument Securities
Ltd. in London. “That’s a slam dunk after that survey. Part of
the support to gilts is coming from euro-zone concerns.”  The 10-year gilt yield dropped five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 1.64 percent at 4:06 p.m. London time after
dropping as much as seven basis points, the most since June 21.
The 4 percent bond due March 2022 rose 0.44, or 4.40 pounds per
1,000-pound ($1,557) face amount, to 121.03.  Spreads on secured lending to households widened in the
second quarter and are expected to expand significantly in the
third, the central bank said in its credit conditions survey.
Only large companies escaped a tightening of borrowing terms in
the second quarter and spreads on loans to firms of all sizes
are predicted to rise markedly, it said.  Disposable Income  U.K. disposable incomes fell for a second quarter in the
first three months of the year, the  Office for National
Statistics  said in London. Gross domestic product shrank 0.3
percent in the first quarter, pushing Britain into its first
double-dip recession since the 1970s, the office said.  Gilts rallied as investors anticipated policy makers will
increase their bond-buying target at their July 4-5 meeting to
stimulate economic growth. The central bank will extend its
asset-purchase program by 50 billion pounds to 375 billion
pounds at the meeting, according to a  Bloomberg News survey .  Governor  Mervyn King  said on June 26 his out-voted call for
more stimulus at the June gathering reflected his concern the
global economic outlook was deteriorating.  European leaders meeting today will consider measures to
stem the debt turmoil as EU President  Herman Van Rompuy ’s road
map to strengthen the euro and financial oversight ran into
immediate opposition from Germany. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  is increasingly isolated as French President  Francois Hollande , Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  and Spanish Premier
 Mariano Rajoy  unite to push for quicker action.  ‘Awful Lot’  Spanish  10-year yields  climbed as high as 7.01 percent
today, surpassing the 7 percent level that forced Greece,
Ireland and  Portugal  to request outside aid. German bunds rose,
with yields falling five basis points to 1.51 percent.  “An awful lot depends on  Europe ,” said Anthony O’Brien, a
fixed-income strategist at Morgan Stanley in London. “Bunds are
doing OK at the moment so gilts are just hovering behind them.”  Gilts have returned 2.6 percent this year, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. German bunds gained 2.2 percent.  The pound fell 0.4 percent to $1.5512, and was little
changed at 80.13 pence per euro.  Sterling may drop to its June 1 low of $1.5269 if it
weakens below the June 15 low of $1.5476, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The U.K. currency has weakened 1.2 percent in the past
month, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes,
which track 10 developed-nation currencies. Only the Norwegian
krone has declined more, losing 1.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  