-- GM Chief Says He’s Worried About Second Half
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-06-28T20:57:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/gm-chief-says-he-s-worried-about-second-half.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , the world’s
largest automaker, is worried that  Europe ’s economic weakness
will affect the second half of 2012, the company’s top executive
said.  “You can see softness in Europe,” Chief Executive Officer
Dan Akerson told an audience at the Executives’ Club of  Chicago .
“If there were a meltdown in the euro, which I don’t think
there will be, I think it would be pretty impactful on,
certainly, the  United States ” and China.  Akerson, who oversaw GM regaining its title of world’s
largest automaker last year and posting a record full-year
profit of $9.19 billion, is pushing the company to boost
operating margins and fix its European operations, which have
lost $16.4 billion since 1999.  GM, based in Detroit, has reported plans to improve its
European results, including proposing to close a factory in
Bochum, Germany, by the end of 2016, and forming an alliance
with  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  to cooperate on purchasing and vehicle
development. The automaker is in talks with Germany unions about
the plant shutdown and delaying pay increases.  “It’s tough in Europe,” Akerson said. “I think we’ll be
rewarded.”  The executive told reporters after the event that GM’s
business plan that runs through 2016 gives the company a “good
shot” at profitability. The plan was formally approved today by
the supervisory board of its Ruesselsheim, Germany-based Opel
unit.  “If you look out five years, I would be disappointed if we
couldn’t get to profitability,” he said.  Chevrolet Volt  Akerson also cut his sales forecast for the Chevrolet Volt
plug-in hybrid car. Volt sales this year aren’t on pace to meet
Akerson’s goal of 60,000 globally this year, of which 45,000
would be delivered in the U.S. Through May, GM has sold 7,057
Volts in the U.S., according to researcher Autodata Corp.  “I set out a goal both for domestic and export of
60,000,” he said. “We’ll probably hit somewhere between”
35,000 and 40,000 this year.  He again said that politics have affected Volt sales. GM
reorganized under a U.S.-backed bankruptcy in 2009, which has
been criticized by Republicans, including  Mitt Romney , the
party’s presumed presidential nominee. The U.S. holds a 32
percent stake in the automaker.  “This car has got a unique technology that I think could
be key to a portfolio solution that brings us better mileage on
a fleet basis,” Akerson said.  Akerson also talked to the audience about GM’s efforts to
change the company’s corporate culture.  “You need to buy in or get out,” Akerson said of
employees. “It sounds harsh. I like all of the discussion in
the huddle but when the huddle breaks, you run the play. And if
you can’t then you ought to go work for”  Ford Motor Co. (F)   GM rose 0.8 percent to $19.82 at the close in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Chicago at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Bill Koenig  at 
 wkoenig@bloomberg.net  