-- Goldman Said to Hold Third Electronic Bond-Trading Session Today
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-06-28T14:23:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/goldman-said-to-hold-third-electronic-bond-trading-session-today.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  will hold
its third internal bond-trading session today after helping its
clients buy and sell $150 million of debt on the system in the
last week, according to a person familiar with the initiative.  The fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets plans to hold two
electronic-trading rounds, one for investment-grade debt and one
for high-yield, each day that it operates the new system, called
GSessions, said the person, who asked not to be named because
the details are private.  Goldman Sachs is starting GSessions as banks reduce the
amount of corporate bonds they hold, responding to regulations
requiring they increase capital as a buffer against losses. The
Volcker Rule, seeking to prohibit federally insured banks from
making bets with their own money, may also hinder lenders’
ability to commit money to buy securities from clients,
according to analysts including Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.’s
Brad Hintz.  Debt of Newmont Mining Corp., AT&T Inc., Goldman Sachs and
Ally Financial Inc. traded in the sessions on June 21 and 26,
with 39 of the New York-based bank’s clients participating in
the five-minute sessions, the person said.  Bid-Ask Spread  The bank charges less for the electronic trades than for
transactions handled over the phone, the person said. The
difference to buy and sell the bonds, known as the bid-ask
spread, is posted before the trading begins and doesn’t change.
Goldman will step in to take one side of a trade if there is
interest from a buyer but no seller or vice versa.  Tiffany Galvin, a Goldman Sachs spokeswoman, declined to
comment on the debut of the new platform, which was reported
earlier today by the Wall Street Journal.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest money manager, said in
April that it plans to start a bond-trading system that will
allow investors to bypass investment banks. It will match
clients’ orders using its own system, rather than relying on
Wall Street firms or other electronic networks to trade bonds.  The BlackRock platform may shut off a source of revenue for
investment banks, which have seen fees from trading bonds for
money managers decline with  interest rates  at about record lows
and as concern mounts that a European country may default on its
debt.  Other electronic trading systems for fixed income include
Tradeweb Markets LLC,  MarketAxess Holdings Inc. (MKTX)  and Bloomberg
LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, which also provides
news and information to the financial community.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  