-- Gold Heads for Biggest Drop in Week as Job Data Signals Slowdown
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2012-06-28T15:53:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/gold-heads-for-biggest-drop-in-week-as-job-data-signals-slowdown.html
Gold headed for the biggest loss in
a week amid signs of slowing U.S. growth and as the dollar
gained on speculation that European Union leaders will struggle
to solve the debt crisis during a summit this week.  The number of applications for U.S. unemployment benefits
hovered last week near the highest level of the year, the Labor
Department said. EU leaders meet today and tomorrow for the 19th
summit on battling the fiscal turmoil. Through yesterday, the
dollar gained 4.6 percent against a basket of six currencies in
the second quarter. In that time, gold fell 5.6 percent, heading
for the biggest quarterly loss in eight years.  “Gold is under pressure because the  U.S. economy  is
showing no signs of strength,” Phil Streible, a senior
commodity broker at R.J. O’Brien & Associates in  Chicago , said
in a telephone interview. “People are moving to the dollar
since there is very little expectation the European leaders will
find a solution.”  Gold futures for August delivery dropped 1.5 percent to
$1,554.60 an ounce at 11:50 a.m. on the Comex in  New York ,
heading for the largest decline since June 21.  “The precious-metals complex is at a very critical
juncture,”  Scott Gardner , the chief investment officer at
Verdmont Capital SA in Panama City, said in a telephone
interview. “Deflation concerns have come back to the forefront,
and gold is selling off in sympathy with cyclical commodities.”  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials
fell as much as 1.3 percent today.  Silver futures for September delivery slumped 2.2 percent
to $26.395 an ounce on the Comex.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  