-- Gold Traders Extend Bullish Call on European Debt Crisis
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2012-06-29T15:40:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/gold-traders-extend-bullish-streak-on-debt-crisis-commodities.html
Gold traders are bullish for a sixth
week on speculation that Europe’s debt crisis will boost demand
from investors seeking to protect their wealth and drive prices
higher after moving to within 1 percentage of a  bear market .  Sixteen analysts surveyed by Bloomberg said they expect a
rally next week and 10 were bearish. Another five were neutral.
Investors added almost $2 billion to holdings in gold-backed
 exchange-traded products  this month, the most since November,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Hedge funds  and other
speculators have increased bets on a rally for four consecutive
weeks, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show.  Spain formally asked for a bailout for its banks on June 25
and Cyprus that day became the fifth member of the 17-nation
 euro zone  to ask for outside help. European leaders agreed today
to ease repayment rules for emergency loans to Spanish banks and
relax conditions on potential help for  Italy . Gold came close to
a bear market in May as some investors sold bullion to cover
losses in stock markets as $7 trillion was erased from global
equities in about two months.  “While demand has been weaker for bullion in recent
months, it has picked up in the last month,” said Mark O’Byrne,
the executive director of Dublin-based GoldCore Ltd., a
brokerage that sells and stores everything from quarter-ounce
British Sovereigns to 400-ounce bars. “A resolution to the
crisis is not going to be seen in the short term. A lot more
speculators could pile back into the market.”  Prices Slide  Gold tumbled 4.4 percent to $1,598.40 an ounce since the
end of March, the biggest retreat since the third quarter of
2008. Bullion is up 2 percent this year which compares with an
8.8 percent slide in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24
commodities and a 3.9 percent advance in the MSCI All-Country
World Index of equities. Treasuries returned 2.1 percent, a Bank
of America Corp. index shows.  The metal fell 3.8 percent last week, the most this year,
as the  Federal Reserve  refrained from announcing a new round of
debt purchases to shore up growth.  Bank of England  Governor
 Mervyn King  told lawmakers June 26 the world isn’t yet halfway
through the global financial crisis that began in 2007 and said
his backing for more stimulus this month reflected concern the
outlook is deteriorating amid Europe’s debt crisis.  ETP Holdings  The 2,409 metric tons investors hold through ETPs is valued
at about $124.8 billion and is within 0.1 percent of the record
set in March, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Sales of American
Eagle gold coins reached 54,500 ounces this month, the most
since March, according to figures on the U.S. Mint’s website.  Central banks are also buying bullion, with Russia, Turkey,
Ukraine and  Kazakhstan  expanding reserves by a combined 25 tons
in May, International Monetary Fund data show. Purchases this
year may exceed the 456 tons bought in 2011, Ashish Bhatia, the
manager of government affairs at the World Gold Council, said in
an interview in  New York  on June 19.  Physical demand in  India , last year’s biggest buyer,
“remains very much muted” after a weakening rupee boosted
costs,  Edel Tully , an analyst at UBS AG in London, wrote in a
report yesterday. Domestic  gold prices  jumped to a record on
June 19, three days before the rupee weakened to an all-time
low, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Indian Demand  Indian demand also retreated this year after jewelers went
on strike in March and April after the government raised taxes
on imports. The  Reserve Bank  of India may cut gold-coin sales by
banks, the Business Standard reported June 27, citing an
unidentified official at the bank. Imports may drop to 20 tons
to 25 tons this month from 55 tons to 60 tons a year ago,
 Prithviraj Kothari , the president of the Bombay Bullion
Association, said in an interview June 19.  A strengthening dollar may limit gold’s anticipated gains.
The U.S. Dollar  Index (MXWD) , a measure against six currencies, rose
3.7 percent this quarter on signs the  U.S. economy  is improving,
reaching a 21-month high June 1. The 30-week correlation
coefficient between the dollar and bullion is now at -0.56,
compared with -0.24 in September, with a figure of -1 meaning
the two move opposite to each other.  German inflation fell to the weakest since January 2011
this month and U.S. inflation remains below the Fed’s 2 percent
target. Some investors buy bullion as a hedge against inflation.
Slowing growth in consumer prices is “difficult” for all asset
classes including gold, Marcus Grubb, managing director for
investment research at the World Gold Council, said in an
interview in  Hong Kong  on June 27.  Bull Market  While Morgan Stanley cut its 2012 forecast by 8.1 percent
to $1,677 yesterday, the bank’s analysts said investors should
still buy bullion because the 11-year  bull market  isn’t over.
Central banks will continue to stimulate economies and negative
real  interest rates  in the U.S. will boost prices, they wrote.  In other commodities, 11 of 24 traders and analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg expect copper to climb next week and four
were neutral. The metal for delivery in three months, the London
Metal Exchange’s benchmark contract, is up 1.1 percent this year
to $7,685.26 a ton.  Nine of 13 people surveyed said raw sugar will advance next
week and four predicted declines. The commodity dropped 11
percent to 20.84 cents a pound since the start of January on ICE
Futures U.S. in New York.  Sixteen of 27 people surveyed anticipate higher corn prices
next week and five were neutral, while 14 of 26 said soybeans
will increase and five predicted little change. Corn slipped 1
percent to $6.3925 a bushel this year as soybeans climbed 17
percent to $14.165 a bushel.  “The key issue is the uncertainty as to what’s going to
happen in  Europe , and that continues to unnerve and unsettle a
lot of consumers,” said Jeremy Baker, who manages the $800-
million Vontobel Belvista Commodity Fund in Zurich. “There are
some very attractive commodities out there in terms of absolute
prices, but we need to see some concrete steps from the European
Union for the commodities to trend higher.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  