-- Google Unveils Compute Engine to Take On Amazon Web Services
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-06-28T20:10:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/google-unveils-compute-engine-to-take-on-amazon-web-services-1-.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , owner of the world’s
most popular search engine, unveiled a cloud-computing service
for building and running applications to help woo customers and
challenge  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s Web Services.  The new service, called Compute Engine, will give
developers deeper access to computing power through the
Internet, Google said today at its I/O developers conference in
San Francisco. Compute Engine offers more options for building
than the existing Google App Engine service.  “You all now have access to what we have had internally at
Google,” said Sundar Pichai, Google’s senior vice president for
Chrome and Apps. “We can’t wait to see what you all build
next.”  The  Mountain View , California-based company is stepping up
efforts for cloud-based computing services as it looks for new
sources of revenue outside of advertising. Amazon’s offering has
become the leading service for businesses to build applications
in the cloud.  Google’s new service will offer different levels of
computing power using the  Linux operating system , as well as
data storage. Using the company’s data centers, Compute Engine
gives customers 50 percent more power for the money than with
other leading cloud services, Google said in a blog  posting .  Android, Google+  In addition to touting cloud services at the I/O event this
week, Google is using the conference to show off other products
and features. They include upgrades to its Android mobile
software, a tablet computer running the operating system and
additions to social network Google+, which was rolled out last
year. The event, running at Moscone Center through tomorrow,
typically draws thousands of developers.  Today, Google also unveiled versions of its Chrome Web
browser designed for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and iPad tablet
computer. Chrome for iPhone will be available as an application
for the device, Google said. Chrome has about 310 million users.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  