-- Greek, Romanian Companies Move to Bulgarian Tax Haven
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2012-06-28T14:22:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/greek-romanian-companies-move-to-bulgarian-tax-haven.html
Greek and Romanian companies that
registered in  Bulgaria  rose last year as executives sought to
take advantage of low taxes and a stable currency in the
neighboring Balkan country.  The number of Greek companies paying taxes in Bulgaria rose
75 percent to 3,781 from 2,199 in 2010, the  National Revenue
Agency  in Sofia said in an e-mailed statement today. Romanian
companies in Bulgaria increased 50 percent to 401 from 272 in
2010, according the agency.  Bulgaria’s corporate and personal income tax rates are at
10 percent, the lowest in the European Union. Government debt is
16 percent of  gross domestic product  this year, the second
lowest in the 27-nation bloc after  Estonia , compared with 161
percent for  Greece  and 33 percent of GDP for  Romania , according
to the European Commission.  “Fully-owned Greek and Romanian companies have shown an
increased interest in Bulgaria because of lower tax and
obligatory social security payments, as well as the country’s
stable economy in the past few years,” the Revenue Agency said.  The  European debt crisis  is bringing economic growth to a
standstill and weakening local currencies. Greece’s second
election this year on June 17 produced a coalition government
that seeks to redraw the terms of a 130 billion-euro ($161-
billion) rescue package with the European Union and the
 International Monetary Fund .  Romanian Bickering  Political bickering between Romanian Prime Minister Victor
Ponta and President Traian Basescu prompted the leu to fall to
an all-time low against the euro this month in the country which
changed governments twice this year.  Bulgaria, which survived the crisis without an
international bailout, has its currency, the lev, pegged to the
euro for more than a decade at the rate of 1.9985.  Greek companies that operate in Bulgaria include Fourlis
Holdings SA, which holds the IKEA franchise for the region, and
builders  Ellaktor SA (ELLAKTOR)  and Terna SA. Jumbo SA, Greece’s biggest
toy retailer, opened four stores in Bulgaria. Romanian companies
in Bulgaria include furniture retailer Mobexpert Srl.  Most of the Greek companies are registered in the southern
city of Blagoevgrad, while most of the Romanian companies are in
the Danube River port of Rousse, in northern Bulgaria.  Bulgaria, the EU’s poorest country as measured by per-
capita GDP, ranks 59th among 183 economies on the  Ease of Doing
Business  list compiled by the  World Bank  and the International
Finance Corp., slipping eight places from last year. Greece
moved up nine places to 100th, while Romania slid to 72nd from
65th.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  