-- Gross Says Decades Needed to Normalize From Too Much Debt
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-06-28T13:07:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/gross-says-decades-needed-to-normalize-from-too-much-debt.html
Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., said
economies and their financial markets take decades to normalize
after the havoc of a debt crisis, making U.S. securities still
the safest bet for investors.  An authentic debt crisis, which the world is experiencing,
can only be ultimately cured by default or printing more money
in order to inflate it away, Gross said in his monthly
investment outlook posted on the Newport Beach, California-based
company’s  website  today. The U.S. Treasury market is considered
the cleanest “dirty shirts” for investors, Gross wrote.  “Don’t underweight  Uncle Sam  in a debt crisis,” Gross
wrote. “Money seeking a safe haven will find it in America’s
deep and liquid, almost Aaa rated, bond and equity markets.”  Gross raised the proportion of U.S. government and Treasury
debt in the $261 billion  Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  to 35 percent in May,
the first increase since January and up from 31 percent of its
holdings in April. Mortgages remained the largest holding in the
fund at 52 percent last month, according to data on the website.  In developed nations, Gross has advised investors to favor
debt of the U.K., as well as the U.S., as Germany faces risks
related to the eventual costs required to end the region’s
worsening sovereign and banking crisis.  Zero-Bound Rates  Spain  formally requested a bailout for its banks this week
and Cyprus also sought a financial lifeline from the euro area’s
firewall funds, becoming the fourth and fifth of the currency
union’s 17 member states to require external aid.  European leaders are gathering for a two-day summit in
Brussels to seek a strategy to contain the region’s debt crisis.  “A debt crisis can’t be cured with more debt” when
national- and household-debt levels as a percentage of gross
domestic product or  household income  become “imbalanced,”
Gross wrote. “The fact is that the current burden of global
debt is only being lightly alleviated via zero-bound  interest
rates .”  Developed nations’ central banks, from the  Federal Reserve 
to the  European Central Bank , have cut rates to at or near
record lows since 2008. Fed policy makers have said they expect
to keep their target rate for overnight loans between banks low
through late 2014. The Fed’s benchmark rate is in a range of
zero to 0.25 percent.  German Bubble  The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell to a
record low of 1.44 percent on June 1. Treasuries have returned a
1.9 percent this year, after gaining 9.8 percent in 2011,
according to indexes compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Mortgage securities gained 1.7 percent, while U.S. corporate and
high-yield debt has risen 5.2 percent since December, the index
data show.  Gross said during a June 18 interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Market Makers” with  Erik Schatzker  and  Stephanie Ruhle  that Germany is in a bond-market bubble as the country is
saddled with rising liabilities from Europe’s debt crisis. He
said he favored debt of the U.S. and U.K.  “I would be leery of German bunds simply because there are
only a few scenarios in which they can do well,” Gross said in
the interview. “Germany for me is a credit risk. It’s not an
attractive market.”  Germany is the largest contributor to Europe’s bailout
packages for  Greece  and a collapse of that nation’s economy and
its possible exit from the euro area may weigh heavily on
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s administration. While German bonds
have profited from  Europe ’s crisis, pushing yields on two-year
notes below zero this month for the first time, Gross said the
bonds have little room to rise further, except in a scenario
such as Germany leaving the euro.  Market Performance  German 10-year yields have advanced from a record low of
1.127 percent reached June 1 as Europe’s deepening crisis fueled
concern the currency bloc’s biggest economy will be left picking
up a mounting tab. Bunds yielded 1.51 percent today.  The Total Return Fund gained 7.05 percent over the past
year, beating 80 percent of its peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The fund attracted $124 million in May,
according to Morningstar Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  