-- GSA Poised to Become Third Tenant of 1 World Trade Center
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t   a n d   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2012-06-28T21:44:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/gsa-poised-to-become-third-tenant-of-1-world-trade-center.html
The Port of Authority of  New York 
and  New Jersey  approved a plan for the U.S. General Services
Administration to take five floors at 1 World Trade Center in
 lower Manhattan , making it the third tenant at the skyscraper.  The authority’s commissioners authorized the agency to
agree to a 20-year lease with the GSA, with as many as four 15-
year renewal options, according to a resolution adopted today.
Total  rent  paid over the first 20 years would be $351.4 million.  “We made what we think is a very attractive deal,” Pat Foye, the Port Authority’s executive director, said after the
agency’s board meeting.  A final agreement still needs to be signed. The 104-story
tower would be 55 percent leased with the deal, agency officials
said at today’s meeting. The 1,776-foot (541-meter) skyscraper,
a centerpiece of the World Trade Center  redevelopment,  is
scheduled to be completed by 2014.  The building’s main tenant is Conde Nast Publications Inc.,
which agreed last year to move its headquarters there from
midtown  Manhattan .  Beijing Vantone Real Estate Co. (600246) , a Chinese
property firm, also has rented space. The Durst Organization,
developers of 1  Bryant Park  in Midtown, is overseeing leasing on
behalf of the Port Authority as its partner in the project.  The GSA negotiates leases on behalf of federal agencies. It
would take about 270,104 square feet (25,093 square meters) at
the new skyscraper, according to the resolution. The U.S.
Customs House was among the trade center’s original tenants,
fully occupying the 750,000-square-foot 6 World Trade Center,
one of the buildings destroyed on Sept. 11, 2001.  New Space  The federal agency waived its right to have 6 World Trade
Center rebuilt in return for space in the new 1 World Trade
Center, the authority said.  The GSA is “committed to finalizing the terms of our lease
for space at 1 World Trade Center,” said Dan Cruz, the federal
agency’s deputy press secretary, in an e-mail. “We continue to
work closely with the  Port Authority  and the Durst Organization
to negotiate a lease that will result in the best value for
taxpayers, the federal government and the city of New York.”  The Port Authority has a number of potential tenants in the
pipeline and rents have been escalating, Foye said.  “It’s indicative of the commercial success and progress
that’s been made in leasing there,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net ;
Martin Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  