-- Tibco U.S. Sales Head Is Said to Depart Amid Reorganization
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-06-28T23:10:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/tibco-head-of-u-s-sales-is-said-to-depart-amid-reorganization.html
Tibco Software Inc.’s head of U.S.
sales, Robin Gilthorpe, has departed amid a reorganization at
the maker of products for running corporate data centers,
according to people with knowledge of the matter.  Executives were informed of the move today, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because they aren’t
authorized to speak about it. Gilthorpe, 44, was senior vice
president in charge of Americas sales at Tibco, which sells
software that knits together companies’ various applications.  Chief Executive Officer  Vivek Ranadive  said he’s “not
satisfied” with Tibco’s performance in the Americas, and that
the software maker is changing leadership there. He didn’t
identify Gilthorpe. Companywide sales and earnings exceeded
analysts’ estimates.  “We haven’t executed well in the United States,” Ranadive
said. “We’re leaving money on the table right now, and I want
to go pick it up.”  Sales in the second quarter rose 14 percent to $247.4
million,  Palo Alto , California-based Tibco said today. That
compares with $245.1 million, the average analyst estimate
compiled by  Bloomberg. (TIBX)  Earnings excluding certain items were 26
cents a share, exceeding analysts’ 23-cent average estimate.  Sales for the third quarter, which ends in August, will be
$255 million to $265 million, Tibco said on a conference call.
That compares with $261.1 million, the average of analysts’
projections. Earnings per share will be 25 cents to 27 cents,
excluding items, compared with the 27-cent average estimate.  High Expectations  “Management has pretty high internal expectations,
presumably much higher than their external guidance suggests,”
said Aaron Schwartz, an analyst at Jefferies & Co. in  New York ,
who recommends buying Tibco shares.  Tibco shares climbed to $27.32 in late trading after
earlier  slipping  less than 1 percent to $26.83 at the close
today.  Gilthorpe had overseen sales and customer support for the
U.S.,  Latin America  and  South America , a region that recorded
$504.7 million in sales last year, or 55 percent of Tibco’s
revenue, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Tiffany Anderson, a spokeswoman for Tibco, didn’t respond
to requests for comment.  Gilthorpe worked for a Tibco predecessor company called
Tibco Finance Technologies Inc. from 1993 to 1997 and returned
in 2003, according to his LinkedIn profile.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  