-- Libya Peace to Help Punj Revive 17% of Orders: Corporate India
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2012-06-28T18:33:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/libya-peace-to-help-punj-revive-17-of-orders-corporate-india.html
Punj Lloyd Ltd. (PUNJ) , India’s third-
largest engineering company, is counting on peace in war-torn
 Libya  to help revive 17 percent of its orderbook and sustain
profit for a second straight year as growth slows at home.  The company,  backed  by Warburg Pincus LLC, plans to resume
work next month in the North African nation where it has $800
million worth of projects, Chairman Atul Punj said. It aims to
begin drilling in Sirte Basin for Waha Oil Co. starting July and
resume construction of a road and upgrading a township in
Tripoli after elections, Punj said.  Projects in Libya may help boost revenue by as much as $500
million in the year starting in April 2013, Punj said. Overseas
contracts may “soon” account for 80 percent of sales of the
builder as the weakest pace of expansion in almost a decade in
India prompts the company to look for more business abroad.  “This will be a big positive for the company and give a
boost to the revenues,” said Nitin Arora, an analyst at Mumbai-
based Angel Broking Ltd, who has a neutral  rating  on the stock.
“Given the current scenario in India, they have to go overseas
to improve their orderbook.”  Campaigning began this month for Libya’s first national
parliamentary election after four decades of rule by dictator
 Muammar Qaddafi , who was toppled and killed by rebels in a
violent uprising last year.  The conflict cost the nation billions of dollars in lost
trade and revenue, the  International Monetary Fund  has said,
while the Libyan government says the revolution killed 30,000
people and wounded 50,000.  ‘Perfect Storm’  In February 2011, Punj Lloyd plunged in Mumbai trading
after the chairman said projects in Libya may be disrupted
because of the unrest. A month later, the company said it
evacuated most of its employees from the country.  “It was a perfect storm,” Punj, 54, said in an interview
at his headquarters in Gurgaon near  New Delhi . “Now we’re
seeing movement in each one of the areas.”  Punj Lloyd  fell  2.4 percent to 46.8 rupees at the close of
trading in  Mumbai  yesterday. The stock has dropped 34 percent in
the past year compared with a 30 percent fall in the BSE India
Capital Goods Index.  The builder renegotiated contracts for four projects after
the new Libyan regime took over, Punj said. On some of the
contracts, the company agreed to cut the royalty fee it receives
from local partners by half to 1 percent, he said.  Punj Lloyd may not be able to revive all its projects in
Libya. The company is no longer counting another $1 billion of
orders won in the country by its Singapore-based unit Sembawang
Engineers & Constructors Pte. because of lack of progress.  Middle East, Africa  Other Indian construction companies are also expanding in
 Middle East  and  Africa  as demand slows in their domestic market.
 Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT) , the nation’s biggest builder of power
plants and airports, last year won a $269 million contract from
Qatar General Electricity & Water Corp. The Mumbai-based company
aims to double overseas orders in three years.  India’s economy  expanded at the weakest pace in nine years
in the quarter ended in March. Companies have delayed new
investments and expansion plans as a paralysis in policy making
and a faltering global recovery damp confidence.  Fitch Ratings 
and  Standard & Poor’s  have said they may strip the nation of its
investment-grade rating.  Adani Power Ltd. (ADANI)  and other electricity generators have
delayed building $36 billion of power stations in the country
because of concerns about coal supply. Plans by Posco, the
world’s third-largest steelmaker, to build a $12 billion steel
mill have languished since 2005 for want of environmental
clearances and issues over land acquisition.  ‘Location Agnostic’  Punj inherited a construction unit with $2 million revenue
and debt of more than $3 million when his family business was
split in 1989. The company posted a  profit  of 1.1 billion rupees
($19.3 million) in the year ended in March after three straight
annual losses, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Overseas
sales accounted for 65 percent of sales in the previous year.  The company’s profit may increase 54 percent in the year
ending March 31, 2014 after remaining unchanged in the current
fiscal year as it boosts overseas focus, according to a median
estimate of 15  analysts  compiled by Bloomberg. Punj Lloyd had an
orderbook of 273 billion rupees as of March.  “There’s no real major activity happening at this point in
time in  India ,” Punj said. The company’s strategy is to be
“location agnostic and go after interesting opportunities
anywhere in the world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  