-- Michelin-Star Petersham Chef to Open Restaurant in London
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-06-28T09:41:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/michelin-star-petersham-chef-to-open-restaurant-in-london-s-soho.html
Skye Gyngell, the Australian chef
who won a Michelin star at Petersham Nurseries Cafe, plans to
open a 120-seat restaurant in central  London  in late October.  The new venue will be backed by  Heckfield Place , a country-
house hotel outside London, where Gyngell will become culinary
director. She declined to give details of the new site, in Soho,
until it is confirmed in coming weeks.  Gyngell quit Petersham in December after winning a Michelin
star last year for her seasonal menu based on produce from the
garden center in which the restaurant stands. Petersham is known
for the quality of the cooking and also for high prices, with
starters costing more than 10 pounds ($15.50) and mains closer 
to 30 pounds.  “I’m really excited to be going where there are lots of
neon lights,” Gyngell said in an interview. “It should be more
buzzy, with a lower price point, and we’ll hold back tables for
people without bookings. I want it to be informal, more mix-and-
match dishes than three-course meals.”  Much of the produce will come from the farm at Heckfield
Place, a Georgian mansion with a 400-acre estate crossed by the
River Whitewater in Hampshire. The hotel will open in March.  Gyngell, 48, has previously said how the Michelin star
changed things at Petersham. It became a destination for diners
unused to the rustic style of the restaurant, with its wobbly
chairs, bare tables and informal service, she told the  Sydney
Morning Herald  earlier this year.  Now, she talks of the honor of winning that star and plays
down any suggestion it led to her departure.  “I had the seven-year itch and I stayed on longer because
we won the star, which everyone was excited about,” she said.
“People said we might get one the year before and we pretended
we didn’t care when we didn’t get it, but it was disappointing.  “I’d done everything I could at Petersham. I was happy that
it was a good, full restaurant. I never looked for awards.”  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on art market,  Robert
Heller  on rock music,  Jason Harper  on cars and  Rich Jaroslovsky 
on technology.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 