-- Yoga, Microsoft, Oracle, Netflix: Intellectual Property
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-06-28T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/microsoft-oracle-trade-talks-intellectual-property.html
The  U.S. Copyright Office  says that
a sequence of yoga poses can’t be copyrighted.  In a release  published in the Federal Register on June 22,
the Copyright Office found that “a selection, coordination, or
arrangement of exercise movements, such as a compilation of yoga
poses, may be precluded from registration as a functional system
or process.”  The policy statement acknowledged that the question of
whether a sequence of “preexisting exercises, such as yoga
poses” can be copyrighted has “occupied the attention of the
Copyright Office for some time.”  The policy statement refers to the eight categories of
works that the federal copyright law specifically names for
protection, including “pantomimes and choreographic works.”
Because “exercise is not a category of authorship,” the
Copyright Office said in its statement, a “compilation of
exercises” can’t be copyrighted.  The question has dogged many in the yoga community. Last
year, Bikram Choudhury, the eponymous owner of Bikram’s Yoga
College of India, brought several suits attempting to enjoin
former instructors from teaching yoga that incorporated elements
that he used, including a hot studio and the sequence of poses.  In the litigation, the defendants submitted an e-mail from
Laura Lee Fischer, who was at the time the acting chief of the
office’s Performing Arts Division, stating that yoga sequences
couldn’t be copyrighted.  The new policy statement was a result of that e-mail.  David Carson, the general counsel of the Copyright Office,
said in a telephone interview that the issue is one “that we
had been mulling over for quite some time. Once the e-mail from
the office surfaced in the litigation -- and it was at best an
incomplete statement -- we felt like we needed to set the record
straight.”  Carson added that the Copyright Office wasn’t seeking
comment on the statement because it isn’t a proposed regulation.
The statement clarifies “our practice.”  The lawyers representing Yoga to the People have filed the
Copyright Office statement with the court. Jordan Susman, one of
the attorneys representing the defendants, said only that “the
Copyright Office statement speaks for itself” and otherwise
declined to comment.  Choudhury’s lawyer, Robert Gilchrest, a partner at
Silverman Sclar Shin & Byrne PLLC in  Los Angeles , didn’t return
a call seeking comment.  To read the Copyright Office release,  click here.   The case is Bikram’s Yoga College of India LP v. Yoga to
the People Inc., 11-cv-07998, U.S. District Court, Central
District of California (Los Angeles).  For more copyright news, click here.  Patent  Microsoft Challenge to EU’s 899 Million-Euro Fine Rejected  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  lost a European Union challenge to an 899
million-euro ($1.1 billion) antitrust fine, with a court saying
it “essentially” upheld the penalty.  The EU General Court cut the fine by 39 million euros, or
4.3 percent, to 860 million euros in a ruling yesterday. The
Luxembourg-based tribunal rejected all of Microsoft’s arguments
over the fine levied by the European Commission for the
company’s failure to obey an order to share data with rivals.  The fine was on top of Microsoft’s earlier penalties of 497
million euros and 280.5 million euros in the antitrust case and
surpassed only by a 1.06 billion-euro levy against  Intel Corp .
during a period of EU scrutiny of U.S. technology companies.  The court’s endorsement of the fines “is likely to
embolden the commission in pursuing procedural violations,”
said Suzanne Rab, a partner in the London office of King &
Spalding LLP.  Microsoft, based in Redmond, Washington, said while it was
disappointed, it paid the fine several years ago. The world’s
largest software company can challenge yesterday’s decision at
the EU’s highest court, the  European Court  of Justice.  Yesterday’s ruling backed the EU’s so-called  periodic
penalty  calculated because Microsoft was in breach of the EU
order for 488 days, regulators said in 2008. The court cut the
fine to take into account a letter from the commission in 2005
that accepted limits on Microsoft’s supply of information to
open-source software developers.  Microsoft is the only company in more than 50 years of EU
competition policy penalized for failing to comply with an
order. The company reached a settlement in 2009, which allowed
yesterday’s appeal, in a bid to repair the company’s
relationship with the European Commission.  The case is T-167/08, Microsoft v. European Commission.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Oracle Wins U.K. Supreme Court Ruling Over Marketing in EU  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , the world’s largest database maker, won a
U.K.  Supreme Court  ruling protecting its right to be first to
market its hardware in the European Union before third-party
resellers may do so.  The judgment yesterday in London reversed a Court of Appeal
ruling in favor of M-Tech Data Ltd., which was sued by Sun
Microsystems Inc. in 2009 for importing Sun disk drives into the
EU after Sun sold them in China, Chile and the U.S. Sun,
purchased in 2010 by Oracle, may be first to market its goods in
the EU under an “economically controversial, but legally well-
established policy,” even if it had previously sold the
products elsewhere, the Supreme Court ruled.  M-Tech, based in Manchester, argued that Sun tried to
control the secondary market for its hardware in the European
Economic Area valued at $1.07 billion in 2007, according to the
judgment. M-Tech claimed Sun did so by withholding data from
independent resellers that would have helped determine whether
certain goods had already been sold in the region, producing a
“chilling effect,” M-Tech said.  “The unlawful conduct alleged by M-Tech does not amount to
a defense, even if proved,” according to a court summary of the
judgment handed down by a panel of five justices. “On the
agreed facts, the disk drives were never marketed in the EEA
until they were imported by M-Tech without Sun’s consent.”  M-Tech is “surprised and disappointed with the decision,”
Harvey Stringfellow, the company’s lawyer at Hill Dickinson LLP
in Liverpool, said in a phone interview. “This was a case that
generated a huge amount of interest within the independent
sector for”  information technology , he said.  M-Tech had argued that Sun can’t enforce its trademark
because Sun is trying to divide the market in the 27-nation EU
in violation of laws permitting free movement of goods. The case
was filed as a trademark dispute because Sun has distribution
rights to products that carry its logo.  Oracle, based in  Redwood City , California, acquired Sun in
January 2010, for $7.3 billion, and renamed the unit Oracle
America Inc.  For more trademark news, click here.  Trade  House Democrats Say Pacific-Region Trade Talks Need Transparency  A majority of U.S.  House Democrats  said talks on a Pacific-
region trade agreement the Obama administration is negotiating
with eight other nations haven’t been sufficiently open to
public and congressional scrutiny.  “We are troubled that important policy decisions are being
made without full input from Congress,” lawmakers led by
Representatives Rosa DeLauro of Connecticut and  George Miller  of
California said in a letter yesterday to U.S. Trade
Representative  Ron Kirk .  The complaint, lodged by 132 of the 191 House Democrats,
reiterates comments by senators including  Ron Wyden  of Oregon
who have sought more transparency in discussions for the Trans-
Pacific Partnership.  Negotiations resume next week in San Diego to create an
agreement among the U.S., Australia, Brunei, Chile, Malaysia,
New Zealand, Peru, Singapore and Vietnam. The accord would cover
issues including small-business access to global markets,
agriculture,  intellectual-property  rights and protections for
companies that compete against state-owned enterprises.  Carol Guthrie , a spokeswoman for the U.S. Trade
Representative’s office, said in an e-mail that she hadn’t yet
seen the letter and didn’t have an immediate comment.  The partnership is one of Obama’s top trade priorities, and
administration officials have said they are working
expeditiously to conclude the talks.  Internet  Netflix Wants Help From U.S. as Cable’s Caps Threaten Growth  Netflix Inc., (NFLX)  the provider of video by mail and over
Internet connections, asked U.S. lawmakers to prevent cable
providers from squelching its growth by imposing online-data
consumption limits for customers.  Netflix, with 23.4 million subscribers, made its request at
a  hearing  yesterday before the House communications and
technology subcommittee in Washington.  “When you couple limited broadband competition with a
strong desire to protect a legacy video distribution business,
you have both the means and motivation to engage in
anticompetitive behavior,” David Hyman, Netflix’s general
counsel, testified.  The session was called to examine changes since the last
broad revision to cable law in 1992, when few consumers used the
Internet and cable companies controlled 98 percent of the pay-
television market, according to a  staff memo . The 1992 law set
terms for broadcasters to demand payment from cable companies
for their signals.  Since then, the U.S. television market has been reordered
by the emergence of satellite providers  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  and
 DirecTV (DTV)  as competitors to cable, and an array of online video
providers including Netflix and Google Inc.’s YouTube.  Netflix could face higher prices and lowered growth from
limits on data consumption by providers of high-speed Internet
service, or broadband, the  Los Gatos , California-based company
said in a  filing .  For more, click here.  Enforcement  Federal Government Seeks Comments on IP Enforcement  The Federal government is developing a joint strategic plan
on intellectual property enforcement, according to a notice in
the Federal Register.  Through the office of the U.S. Intellectual Property
Enforcement Coordinator, known as IPEC, the government is
seeking public input in formulating its enforcement strategy.  The request for comments and recommendations is divided
into three parts. The first seeks detailed recommendations from
the public regarding specific ideas for improving intellectual
property enforcement. It also seeks input on the existing and
emerging threats to the protection of intellectual property
rights, the identification of threats to public health and
safety and the  U.S. economy  resulting from intellectual property
infringement. Finally, IPEC seeks submissions to help develop
specific action items.  Submissions must be received on or before July 25.  To read the announcement in the Federal Register,  click
here.   Law Firm Moves  Reed Smith Adds Music Lawyer in New York Office  Edward H. Shapiro has joined Reed Smith LLP as a partner in
the firm’s New York office. He is a member of the firm’s music
industry practice.  Shapiro had been in the New York office of Grubman Indursky
Shire & Meiselas PC, an entertainment law firm. Previously, he
had worked at record and electronic media companies.  Fish & Richardson Adds Counsel to its Washington Office  Anne M. Sterba has joined Fish & Richardson PC as of
counsel in the firm’s trademark and copyright group. She will be
based in Washington and will work on trademark prosecution and
counseling, false advertising, unfair competition, copyright,
licensing, and litigation matters.  Before joining Fish, Sterba was a member of the
intellectual property firm Rothwell, Figg, Ernst, & Manbeck PC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 