-- Microsoft Said to Plan Xbox Music Rivaling Apple, Spotify
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-06-28T16:36:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/microsoft-said-to-plan-xbox-music-rivaling-apple-spotify.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  plans an expansive
Xbox music service joining Spotify-style streaming with download
and online-storage functions similar to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iTunes,
several people with knowledge of the situation said.  The Redmond, Washington-based software maker is in talks
with major  record companies  for the needed rights, and plans to
begin service later this year, said the people, who asked not to
be identified because the discussions aren’t complete.  By combining the best features of competing services,
Microsoft seeks to build a digital product that lets customers
consume music any way they like. The maker of the Xbox console
is building the new music business after its unsuccessful effort
with the Zune service, which will close and move customers to
Xbox Music, the company said on its  website .  Microsoft is negotiating with  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s  Universal Music
Group , billionaire Len Blavatnik’s Warner Music Group,  Sony
Corp. (6758) ’s music division, all based in  New York , and Citigroup’s
London-based EMI, the people said.  All four music companies declined to comment in e-mails.
Jose Pinero, a Microsoft spokesman, also wouldn’t comment.  Microsoft fell 2 percent to $29.57 at 12:15 p.m. in New
York. The stock had risen 16 percent so far this year. On June
18, the company announced plans to produce its own line of
tablet computers called Surface.  Streaming Service  Xbox Music seeks to offer streaming for a monthly or annual
fee, similar to Spotify Ltd.’s subscription service, and let
consumers buy digital music through an online store, such as
Zune, Apple’s iTunes and Amazon.com Inc., the people said.  The company is also seeking to offer Xbox Music users an
online locker accessible by multiple mobile devices running
Windows 8, the people said. Users could put entire collections
online, including music purchased elsewhere, for a monthly or
annual fee, they said.  The talks for the Xbox service are still early and
Microsoft may not be able to obtain all of the rights it’s
seeking, the people said. Even if successful, Microsoft may
choose to roll out features over time, they said.  The Xbox music service was announced June 4 at the E3
video-game conference in  Los Angeles , without details about how
it will work or when it will be available.  Microsoft announced the service without having record deals
completed. The company needs the four music companies onboard to
avoid releasing an offering with fewer artists than the Zune
service, the people said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  