-- Liechtenstein in Turmoil Over Vote to Revoke Ruler’s Veto
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2012-06-28T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/liechtenstein-in-turmoil-over-vote-to-revoke-ruler-s-veto.html
Liechtenstein  will decide over the
next three days whether to strip its monarch of veto powers
after he threatened to block moves to legalize abortion.  Prince Alois von und zu Liechtenstein has said he may quit
his royal duties should a majority of the Manhattan-sized Alpine
country wedged between Switzerland and Austria vote today and on
July 1 to revoke his power to overturn referendums.  Sidelining 44-year-old Alois, whose family owns
Liechtenstein’s biggest bank, would jeopardize the prosperity
that gives the country’s 36,000 residents the world’s second-
highest per capita income after  Monaco , according to royalist
lobby group Prince and People. When his father Hans-Adam II
warned that he might leave Liechtenstein nine years ago, the
electorate granted him more powers in what the  Council of Europe 
said was “a serious backward step” for democracy.  “We are the last monarchy where the sovereign definitely
has the last word, and this is not good because it’s
undemocratic,” said Mario Frick, former head of government and
chairman of the Liechtenstein private bank Frick & Co. AG. “It
is a contradiction in terms that Liechtenstein calls itself a
direct democracy when the people do not have the last word.”  Alois upset some residents when he threatened last August
to use his veto should the electorate vote to legalize abortion
in the mostly Catholic country, which is the only nation named
after the family that bought it.  Unacceptable Solution  “Every human life, especially that of an unborn child,
needs to be protected,” Alois said in a  speech  that month.
“Abortion is not an acceptable solution for the problem of an
unwanted pregnancy.”  In a referendum in September, 52.3 percent voted against
granting impunity from punishment in the case of a first
trimester abortion. Women in Liechtenstein who have an abortion
can be imprisoned for as long as one year, according to the
country’s  criminal code .  The principality’s abortion laws are the most restrictive
in  Europe  after Ireland and  Poland , said Hilfe Statt Strafe, the
group that garnered the 1,500 signatures necessary to trigger a
referendum in a country better known for limited edition stamps
and vineyards producing Riesling and Pinot Gris. Only Monaco,
Andorra,  San Marino , Malta and Ireland among European countries
have stricter abortion laws, according to 2011 statistics
published by the  World Health Organization .  In 1984, Liechtenstein became the last nation in Europe to
give women the right to vote, according to Kareen Jabre, manager
of the gender partnership program at the Inter-Parliamentary
Union, a Geneva-based organization that promotes democracy.  Democratic Farce  The prince’s intervention in the abortion debate prompted
banker Jochen Hadermann, computer specialist Edith Hilbe,
teacher Silvio Hoch and state historian Paul Vogt to marshal
support for a referendum on his veto.  “The veto turns democratic decision making into a farce,”
said Sigvard Wohlwend, a spokesman for the group.
“Liechtenstein is only a democracy as long as the people want
the same thing as the prince.”  Silvia Hassler-De Vos, a spokeswoman for Alois, said the
vote this week could be vetoed by the prince. The royal family
has only used the powers once, in 1961, over a proposal to
transfer hunting rights in Europe’s fourth-smallest country.  Alois declined to be interviewed by Bloomberg News because
he doesn’t comment to foreign media on internal political issues,
Hassler-De Vos said. She declined to say whether the royal
family will join its art collection in Vienna should voters
abolish the veto.  Happy Childhood  “The royal family does not want to serve as a fig leaf
that covers a politic it doesn’t share anymore,” the prince
 told  parliament on March 1.  In 2003, Hans-Adam’s three other children, including Prince Maximilian, who heads the family’s bank LGT Group, wrote to the
principality’s people, asking them to grant their father
additional powers and prevent him from moving to neighboring
 Austria .  “We have had a happy childhood in Liechtenstein. Our
friends and family tie us closely to the country and the
people,” they wrote of the country acquired more than 300 years
ago by their forefather Johan Adam Andreas of Vienna’s von
Liechtenstein family. “We are convinced that the royal family
can also in future make a positive contribution to
Liechtenstein.”  While Monaco, Luxembourg and Andorra have curbed the powers
of their royal families, more than 64 percent of voters in 2003
backed Hans-Adam, whose wealth is estimated at as much as 7
billion Swiss francs ($7.3 billion), according to the December
issue of Swiss magazine Bilanz.  Dramatic Consequences  Christof Buri, a spokesman for LGT, declined to comment on
whether the bank would remain in Liechtenstein should the family
depart. Relocation is unlikely because it would cost too much,
said two people with knowledge of the matter, who declined to be
identified because they aren’t authorized to comment.  The departure of the royal family from the castle that
looks down on the cobbled streets of the capital Vaduz would
damage a financial center that has more than 500 funds and whose
17 banks manage assets of about 166 billion francs.  “It would have dramatic consequences for the future of our
country,” said Alexander Batliner, head of the center-right
Progressive Citizens’ Party, which forms a coalition government
with the larger Patriotic Union. “With this dualism of the
prince and the people, our sovereignty is better protected than
if we were a republic.”  Spring Unlikely  Liechtenstein’s wealth management assets have dropped
almost a fifth since  Germany  used data stolen from LGT in 2008
to prosecute tax evaders. The nation, which was accidentally
invaded by the Swiss army on night maneuvers five years ago,
agreed in March 2009 to meet international standards to avoid
being blacklisted as a tax haven by the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development.  A “Liechtenstein Spring” is unlikely, Prime Minister
Klaus Tschuetscher said in February.  One of his predecessors, Frick, still hopes that this time
it will be different.  “It’s tragic that a large part of the country’s elite,
including famous managers of important companies, fear the
prince’s exodus and with him the country’s success,” he said.
“For Liechtenstein’s reputation, it would be good if the people
get the last say, because under the current situation the
country looks a bit backward.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  