-- Lies About Military Medals Can’t Be Punished, Court Says
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-06-28T20:45:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/lies-about-military-medals-can-t-be-punished-court-says.html
People can’t be prosecuted for lying
about receiving a military medal, the U.S. Supreme Court said,
invoking free-speech rights to strike down a federal law
intended to protect the integrity of armed services awards.  The justices, voting 6-3, today invalidated the Stolen
Valor Act of 2005, which punished violators with as much as a
year in prison. The case tested the extent of the protection for
false statements under the Constitution’s First Amendment.  “Permitting the government to decree this speech to be a
criminal offense, whether shouted from the rooftops or made in a
barely audible whisper, would endorse government authority to
compile a list of subjects about which false statements are
punishable,” said Justice  Anthony Kennedy , who wrote the
majority opinion.  Comparing the Stolen Valor Act to  George Orwell ’s novel
“1984,” about a futuristic totalitarian state, Kennedy wrote,
“Our constitutional tradition stands against the idea that we
need Oceania’s Ministry of Truth.”  The case before the justices involved Xavier Alvarez, one
of the first people charged under the law. In 2007, Alvarez was
serving as an elected member of the local water board in Pomona,
 California , when he said at a board meeting that he had served
25 years in the Marines and had been awarded the Congressional
Medal of Honor. In truth, he had never served in the military.  Probation Sentence  He was charged with violating the Stolen Valor Act and
pleaded guilty, while reserving his right to appeal on First
Amendment grounds. Alvarez was sentenced to three years of
probation, a $5,000 fine and 416 hours of community service. A
divided federal appeals court in  San Francisco  threw out the
guilty plea.  Prosecutors have filed charges under the Stolen Valor Act
in 45 cases since the law was enacted, Alvarez said in court
papers.  Justice  Samuel Alito , who wrote the dissenting opinion,
said the majority erred by protecting the right to lie in a way
that may cause harm to the U.S. system of military honors.  “The right to free speech does not protect false factual
statements that inflict real harm and serve no legitimate
interest,” Alito wrote in an opinion joined by Justices Antonin Scalia and  Clarence Thomas .  Limited Protection  The Obama administration, defending the law before the
court, had said previous Supreme Court cases established that
false statements are entitled only to limited First Amendment
protection. Twenty states backed that position, citing laws
criminalizing bomb hoaxes and false impersonation.  Alvarez contended that the court has never carved out an
exception to the First Amendment for lies. He and his supporters
said the government must at least show that someone was harmed
by a false statement.  The  American Civil Liberties Union  called the decision a
victory for free speech.  “The First Amendment reserves to individual citizens, not
the government, the right to separate what is true from what is
false, and to decide what ideas to introduce into private
conversation and public debate,” Jameel Jaffer, the ACLU’s
deputy legal director, said in a statement. “Today’s decision
is an important reaffirmation of those crucial rights.”  Veterans groups such as the  American Legion  said the court
failed to protect the integrity of the military’s system of
awarding honors.  Favoring Liars  “The court struck the constitutional balance in favor of
liars and against the millions of military service members and
veterans who have fought to defend the Constitution,” Aaron
Streett, counsel for the American Legion, said in a statement.  Even with the court’s ruling, the issue may not be over.  Justice  Stephen Breyer , in a concurring opinion, suggested
a more narrowly tailored statute might withstand constitutional
scrutiny.  “The government has provided no convincing explanation as
to why a more finely tailored statute would not work,” Breyer
wrote.  A bill pending in Congress attempts to do that. The Stolen
Valor Act of 2011, introduced last year by Republican Senator
 Scott Brown  of  Massachusetts , would revise the statute to forbid
misrepresenting military service “with intent to obtain
anything of value.”  That bill awaits action by the Senate Judiciary Committee,
and a similar measure awaits committee action in the House.  In addition, federal law already prohibits wearing a
military medal without authorization, under a 1923 statute.  The Senate bill is S. 1728.  The case is  United States  v. Alvarez, 11-210.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  