-- Tiger Woods, AT&T’s Stephenson, Golf Task Force: D.C.
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-06-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/tiger-woods-at-t-s-stephenson-golf-task-force-d-c-.html
Tiger Woods ,  AT&T Inc. (T)  Chief
Executive Randall Stephenson and members of the Congressional
Golf Task Force were on the green together for the opening of
the AT&T National golf tournament yesterday at the  Congressional
Country Club .  The tournament contributes to the Tiger Woods Foundation,
which operates two  Tiger Woods Learning Centers  in  Washington 
that provide innovative math and science education for children.  “You might as well ask me my weight,” joked Stephenson
about his reluctance to reveal his handicap, though he did in
the end say that it was about a 14.  Stephenson talked to PGA Tour commissioner Tim Finchem, who
said his handicap was around a 17.  “He’s lying!” Stephenson shot back, clearly aware that
Finchem was trying to be modest.  Before joining Woods for the opening ceremony, which was
sponsored by  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , a group of congressmen
gathered in the club house with the  World Golf Foundation ’s CEO,
Steve Mona. They included California Democrat Joe Baca, Georgia
Republican Phil Gingrey, California Republican Jeff Denham,
Louisiana Democrat Cedric Richmond, and New Jersey Democrat
Albio Sires.  Mona pointed out the financial, charitable and health
benefits of the sport, reminding the policy leaders that the
golf industry contributes two million jobs to the economy.  Two Handicap  Baca, the chairman of the Congressional Golf Task Force,
added that he always promotes golf through a “business
perspective,” because it’s a $76 billion industry in the U.S.  He has a two handicap, one of the group’s best. He said he
prefers to improve his game on public courses, although he does
belong to a private club.  The members boarded golf carts and got a mini-tour of the
course, making a stop at the “We Salute Our Heroes” wall,
where they wrote personal notes of appreciation to active
military. The wall is sponsored by the Pentagon Federal Credit
Union, or PenFed.  After the tournament, the wall will be sent to military
organizations.  Military support is a trademark of the tournament. Lockheed
Martin provides 30,000 tickets to active and retired military,
and hosts a tent where packages of goodies are prepared for
soldiers in  Afghanistan .  ‘Rock Star’  Tuesday night, author Jill Kargman was the guest of honor
at the Ginger boutique in Bethesda,  Maryland , to celebrate her
new novel “The Rock Star in Seat 3A.”  Kargman -- now sister-in-law of Drew Barrymore since the
actress married the author’s brother, Will Kopelman, a few weeks
ago -- said she preferred book signings in small shops because
the lighting is better, and she can sip wine while chatting with
readers.  Capitalizing on the rock ‘n’ roll theme of the book,
“groupie chic” was the look of the affair, with guests turning
out in gothy black, leather boots, gaudy makeup and tattoos
provided by the makeup artists stationed outside.  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars.  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 