-- IMF May Consider Greek Loan Changes After Visit Next Week
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-06-28T17:50:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/imf-may-consider-greek-loan-changes-after-team-visit-next-week.html
An  International Monetary Fund  team
will start negotiating possible changes to the conditions
attached to a loan to Greece after a fact-finding mission
travels to  Athens  early next week, a fund spokesman said.  The mission, which includes officials from the  European
Central Bank  and the European Commission, “will assess the
recent economic developments and meet with the new
authorities,” Gerry Rice, the IMF spokesman, told reporters in
 Washington  today. He said he had no date for the follow-up
negotiating mission.  “The objectives of the program as agreed remain the basis
for those discussions,” Rice said. “If the new government has
ideas on how those program objectives can be achieved, we’re
open to those discussions.”  Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras asked fellow European
leaders to loosen budget-austerity requirements for emergency
aid while saying he would press ahead with an economic overhaul.
Greece has slipped behind budget-cutting targets that euro-area
nations and the IMF imposed in exchange for 240 billion euros
($298 billion) in aid pledges in the past two years.  In a letter to euro-area government heads, Samaras said a
Greek  recession  in its fifth year and record unemployment of 23
percent require changes to targets for spending cuts demanded in
return for international loans. At stake is whether  Greece  can
stay in the 17-nation euro.  Unemployment, Recession  “There is a question of some necessary modifications to the
program in order to control unprecedented unemployment and halt
the devastating recession Greece is going through,” Samaras said
in the June 27 letter released today in Brussels by Greek
officials attending a European Union summit. Samaras, who became
premier on June 20, couldn’t attend the EU meeting because he
underwent eye surgery on June 23.  “Our priority is to listen to the new government and to
hear their views,” Rice said. The IMF estimates that the Greek
authorities “can manage the budget for some period of time”
without the next loan disbursement, according to the spokesman.  In Brussels, European Union leaders focused on immediate
help for Spain and  Italy  at the start of a two-day summit
intended to chart a path out of their financial crisis.  The 27 government chiefs will discuss buying Spanish and
Italian government bonds to bring down borrowing costs that are
near euro-era records, Finnish Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen 
said. He also proposed that bailout funds buy collateralized
government debt in primary markets.  The euro slipped 0.3 percent to $1.2428 at 12:58 p.m.  New
York  time. The Spanish 10-year bond yield rose three basis
points to 6.96 percent, after climbing above 7 percent for the
first time since June 20. Crude oil tumbled 2.2 percent to
$78.46 a barrel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  