-- In Health-Care Ruling, Roberts Writes His Own Law
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2012-06-28T22:30:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/in-health-care-ruling-roberts-writes-his-own-law.html
In the end, most of the arguments
about President  Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul turned out
to be beside the point.  The law’s defenders for the most part argued that Congress
can require people to buy health insurance because the
Constitution lets it regulate commerce “among the several
states.” Their fallback argument was that Congress can impose
the requirement because the Constitution gives it the power to
make “all laws which shall be necessary and proper for carrying
into execution” its regulations.  Opponents of the law concentrated on knocking those
arguments down. Most people on both sides assumed that the
individual mandate would stand or fall on those grounds. So the
conventional wisdom wasn’t just wrong about the outcome of the
case -- a much more severe blow to the law was expected -- it
was wrong about what the case would, in the minds of the
justices, be about.  A majority of the justices concluded that the mandate
couldn’t be justified under the Commerce Clause, even with the
necessary-and-proper backing. A different majority of the
justices also declined to get rid of the mandate. Chief Justice
 John Roberts , the only one in both majorities, bought the
administration’s second fallback argument: The mandate is an
exercise of the government’s power to tax.  Extra Money  The mandate, in this argument, is like the tax deduction
for charitable giving. If you don’t give to charity, you pay
more to the federal government. The same goes for not buying
insurance under Obama’s health-care law. In this view, the
difference is merely that the health-care statute calls the
extra money you pay the government a “penalty” for breaking the
law rather than a “tax.”  Not many people doubt that the government can make
different groups of people pay different amounts of money based
on economic decisions. Nobody thinks the charitable deduction is
unconstitutional. So, Roberts and four colleagues conclude, it
can also tax people differently based on whether they purchase
health insurance.  In defense of those of us who didn’t expect this argument
to be decisive, no lower court had considered it compelling. In
our further defense, it isn’t compelling. Many critics of
Roberts’s decision have noted that Obama denied on national
television that the mandate is a tax. Let’s leave that fact
aside, on Justice  Antonin Scalia ’s theory that the history of
the debate over a piece of legislation should be ignored in
favor of looking at the text.  The text of the bill doesn’t help Roberts’s case. The
problem isn’t just that the bill repeatedly uses the word
“penalty.” It also refers to the mandate as a “requirement” and
says that people “shall” buy insurance. That’s where the analogy
to taxes breaks down. People aren’t required to donate to
charity. The law doesn’t say that they “shall” be philanthropic.
The health-care act, on the other hand, does suggest that people
who refuse to get insurance are breaking the law (unless they
are exempt from the requirement for one of the reasons listed in
the law).  Congress could have written a law that merely imposed an
extra tax on non-purchasers of insurance, or that gave a tax
break to purchasers. Maybe Congress would have done exactly that
if it had known a majority of the court doesn’t believe it has
the power to impose a mandate under the  Commerce Clause . What
Congress actually did was something different.  Slippery Maneuver  Roberts appeals to the idea that a court should read an
ambiguous law in a way that renders it compatible with the
Constitution. But he hasn’t read the law in this case so much as
rewritten it. He claims that it leaves people free to make the
“lawful choice” to forgo health insurance. In effect, then, he
has ruled that the mandate isn’t a mandate at all.  Roberts performs the same maneuver elsewhere in the
opinion. Like the four justices who think the law should be
struck down (and like two liberal justices), Roberts believes
that the law unconstitutionally coerces the states by
threatening to cut off all federal Medicaid funding if they
don’t expand the program. Instead of striking down the law,
however, he again rewrites it, so that only a portion of federal
Medicaid funding is withheld from balky states.  The resulting law may be a better one than Congress wrote.
It is not, however, the law that Congress wrote. Roberts may
think he has threaded a needle. He has avoided affirming an
expansive reading of the Commerce Clause, which conservatives
loathe, while refusing to give liberals the ammunition to call
him a partisan for dismantling their cherished law. He acted
cleverly. He also acted less like a judge than like a
politician, and a slippery one.  ( Ramesh Ponnuru  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a senior
editor at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why  John Roberts saved
Obamacare  and why  Mexico ’s next president  must combat its
economic cartels ; Stephen L. Carter in praise of  Supreme Court
secrecy ;  Noah Feldman  on  Roberts’s restraint ;  Jeffrey Goldberg 
on whether  women can have it all ; William Pesek on  Myanmar’s
economic development ;  Jonathan Weil  on how the  Bank for
International Settlements   sees the industry ;  Steven Greenhut  on
using eminent domain to  take over foreclosed homes .  To contact the author of this column:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 