-- Lincoln Center to Make Avery Fisher Hall More Accessible
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-06-28T20:47:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/lincoln-center-to-make-avery-fisher-hall-more-accessible.html
Lincoln Center for the Performing
Arts agreed to add additional wheelchair seating at  Avery Fisher
Hall  in  Manhattan , after the  Justice Department  said it’s in
violation of the Americans with Disabilities Act.  The home of the  New York Philharmonic  will add four seats
on a platform in the orchestra section about 27 rows from the
stage, according to a settlement filed today in U.S. District
Court in  New York . Each seat will be “accompanied by a
designated companion seat,” it said. They supplement four
existing wheelchair seats in the last of the 41 rows, as well as
wheelchair seats upstairs.  Lincoln Center will also add a fifth wheelchair seat in the
last row of the orchestra section, among other measures to
improve the 2,378-seat hall’s accessibility.  “The comprehensive corrective measures agreed to by
 Lincoln Center  will allow people with disabilities to have an
equal opportunity to enjoy the performances offered at one of
New York City’s most significant cultural venues,” Manhattan
U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said in a statement.  Betsy Vorce, a Lincoln Center spokesman, said the hall will
be more accessible to the tens of thousands who visit annually.  Other changes promised in the settlement include: adding
seats on the aisle with removable armrests, for people with
canes and other aids; making bathrooms more accessible on the
first, second and third tiers; and installing an automatic door
opener to permit people in wheelchairs to use the balcony.  Lincoln Center has 18 months to complete the work,
according to the settlement.  The case is U.S. v. Lincoln Center for the  Performing Arts 
Inc., 12-cv-5030, U.S. District Court for the Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter of this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Burke in New York at 
 jburke21@bloomberg.net  