-- India Signals Tax-Avoidance Clampdown Won’t Be Retrospective
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n   a n d   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2012-06-29T12:51:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/india-to-refrain-from-using-tax-avoidance-rules-retrospectively.html
India proposed that a clampdown on
tax avoidance due in 2013 won’t apply retrospectively or to
cases below a certain monetary threshold, seeking to assuage
concern that the plan will deter foreign investment.  The draft guidelines released by the  finance ministry  in
 New Delhi  late yesterday would also exempt foreign institutional
investors if they refrain from routing money to India via tax
shelters. The indicative rules are for discussion and feedback
and haven’t been seen by Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh , who has
final approval, the government said today.  Singh, who took charge of the finance ministry earlier this
week, has told officials to revive confidence in India after
economic growth slowed and proposed tax changes from March’s
budget damped investor sentiment, stoking a plunge in the rupee.
Yesterday’s draft suggests overseas investors with exposure to
Indian  stocks  through so-called participatory notes won’t be
targeted, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu India Pvt. said.  “Some clarifications are a welcome step,” said N. C.
Hegde, a Mumbai-based partner at Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu India.
“It remains to be seen how the guidelines are implemented.”  The rupee surged 2.1 percent, the most in more than three
years, to 55.6375 per dollar at the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai. The
BSE India Sensitive Index jumped 2.6 percent. The currency and
stocks were boosted by optimism that European leaders are edging
closer toward solving the immediate debt crisis in the euro area.  Net Sellers  The tax guidelines also recommended a monetary threshold
for applying the anti-avoidance law to “avoid indiscriminate
application,” without specifying its level.  Overseas funds were net sellers of Indian  stocks  in April
and May on concern the planned General Anti-Avoidance Rule, or
GAAR, would apply to their holdings.  Pranab Mukherjee , who resigned as finance minister on June
26 to run for the presidency, retreated on the GAAR proposals in
May in a bid to salvage investor confidence in Asia’s third-
largest economy, delaying their implementation to the fiscal
year beginning April 1, 2013.  Mukherjee in the March 16 annual budget said he will also
seek clarifications to allow the retrospective taxation of
overseas deals in which an Indian asset is transferred.  That announcement followed a ruling in January by India’s
 Supreme Court  that  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  doesn’t have to pay $2.2
billion in tax on its purchase, conducted offshore, of the local
business of  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)  in 2007.  International Concerns  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  discussed the
tax plans with Mukherjee in April after American trade and lobby
groups said they may lead to retroactive levies for periods of
as much as 50 years and deter foreign investment. U.K.
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  has said the
proposals could damage India’s investment climate.  Gross domestic product growth in India slowed to 5.3
percent in the three months through March, the least since 2003.
The slowdown has sapped tax revenues even as subsidies spur
spending, leaving the nation with record borrowing needs to plug
the widest  budget deficit  among the biggest  emerging markets .  Fitch Ratings  and  Standard & Poor’s  have said they may
strip India of its investment-grade  credit rating , citing risks
ranging from the fiscal gap to the current-account deficit.  The current-account shortfall swelled to a record $21.7
billion in the three months ended March 2012, the central bank
said today.  Record Deficit  For the 12 months ended March, the deficit widened to $78.2
billion, or 4.2 percent of GDP, from $46 billion in 2010-2011,
or 2.7 percent of GDP, it said. The full-year figure is also a
record, based on central bank data.  Singh said two days ago that India needs to “reverse the
climate of pessimism” and that the immediate emphasis of the
government is to manage the balance of payments and boost
capital inflows into India. His efforts to further liberalize
the economy have encountered opposition in the ruling coalition.  Economic reforms in India have slowed due to a lack of
political consensus,  Kaushik Basu , chief economic adviser in the
finance ministry, said in New Delhi today. GDP growth is set to
remain subdued for a few months and India will have to live with
high  inflation  until September, he said.  The GAAR guidelines still leave “lots of ifs and buts,”
said Nishith Desai, managing partner at law firm Nishith Desai &
Associates. “If you look at the fine print, you fall flat. It’s
not giving enough comfort to foreign investors. It needs to be
completely revisited.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net ;
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  