-- India Plans $5.3 Billion of Highways as Jams Sap Growth
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2012-06-28T00:27:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/india-plans-5-3-billion-of-highways-as-jams-sap-growth.html
(Corrects how plan will be funded in first and third
paragraphs.)  India  is considering a 300 billion-
rupee ($5.3 billion) plan to triple the length of its expressway
network to ease traffic jams that are slowing trade, wasting
fuel and sapping economic growth.  The country intends to add about 1,600 kilometers (1,000
miles) of roads with at least six lanes, Raghav Chandra, joint
secretary at the  Ministry of Road Transport and Highways , said
in an interview on June 14. He didn’t give a timeframe for
awarding construction contracts or for completing the projects.  The new highways, linking major cities, will have higher
tolls than existing roads and fewer access points so trucks
won’t get stuck at toll gates or behind queues of motorcycles,
auto-rickshaws and tractors making local trips. India is
planning the network of privately-funded roads as it contends
with congestion that costs $5.5 billion a year, according to a
study by  Transport Corp. (TRPC)  of India and the  Indian Institute of
Management, Calcutta .  “This is the first step towards really improving traffic
movement,” said Vishwas Udgirkar, a Gurgaon, India-based senior
director for transport at Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu India Pvt.
“India is way behind other countries in creating such
infrastructure.”  India’s 6 million trucks now average 19.8 kilometers per
hour because of jams, according to the study backed by trucking
company Transport Corp. Washington D.C. has the slowest traffic
in the U.S., with an average speed of 74 kilometers per hour,
based on a 2010 study by TomTom NV. Faster trips could save
Indian truckers as much as 600 billion rupees of fuel a year,
the Transport Corp. study said.  ‘Many Disruptions’  “There are too many disruptions by road,” said Mayank Pareek, head of sales and marketing at  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) ,
which uses 400 trucks a day. “Everywhere you get slowed down.”  The  automaker , which has about 20,000 cars in transit at
any one time, is considering moving 30 percent of new vehicles
by rail within three years, up from 5 percent now, to avoid the
jams, he said.  Among the new expressways will be three connecting New
Delhi with the northern cities of Meerut, Jaipur and Chandigarh,
said J. N. Singh, finance director at road-building agency
National Highways Authority of India. Others will link  Chennai 
and Bangalore in the south, Mumbai and Vadodara in the west, and
Kolkata and Dhanbad in the east. The roads will be designed for
speeds as fast as 120 kilometers an hour, Chandra said.  China’s Highways  About 65 percent of India’s freight and 80 percent of
passenger traffic moves on the highway network, which mainly
comprises two-lane roads. The nation has 700 kilometers of
expressways, mainly reserved for cars, trucks and buses. These
roads, which have at least four lanes, run between Mumbai and
Pune, and between Ahmedabad and Vadodara.  China  has 74,000
kilometers of expressways, according to the Transport Corp.-IIM
study. In 1989, China had 147 kilometers of such roads.  In August 2009, Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  set a
goal of building 20 kilometers of new roads a day as part of
efforts to improve infrastructure ranked below  Guatemala ’s and
 Kazakhstan ’s by the  World Economic Forum . The daily average was
4.5 kilometers in 2011, according to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.
India aims to spend as much as $1 trillion in five years on
roads, ports and  power plants .  Delays in acquiring land are the biggest challenge for
Indian infrastructure projects, Deloitte’s Udgirkar said, as
farmers refuse to leave their farms fearing they will lose their
livelihoods. A quarter of the 226 roads commissioned by NHAI are
behind schedule for reasons including delays in acquiring land,
C.P. Joshi, road transport and highways minister, said in
December.  Freight Corridors  “What we need to focus on is completing these projects on
time,” said Manish Saigal, a partner at  KPMG  in India. “NHAI
has awarded a lot of projects, but on the big freight corridors
they are still lagging behind.”  An elevated road to Chennai’s port in Tamil Nadu state is
among the projects held up because of land delays. In September,
farmers also protested against the acquisition of plots for
widening a highway in the western state of Rajasthan, according
to Minister Joshi.  NHAI, which oversees road building, has already begun
buying land for one of the new expressways, running from Mumbai
to Vadodara, Singh said. The state agency intends to complete
land acquisitions before issuing construction tenders, he said.  The proposed roads will have only about six entry and exit
points, Singh said. Tolls will also be as much as 1.5 times more
than a six-lane highway, he said. On the 28-kilometer Delhi-
Gurgaon expressway, trucks pay as much as 82 rupees per trip.  G.R. Shanmugappa, who operates 80 trucks from southern
Karnataka state, said he’d be happy to pay higher tolls for
better roads. Highway improvements could help cut costs as much
as 12 percent on a 4,200-kilometer New Delhi-Bangalore round
trip, he said. Trucks could also cover as much as 700 kilometers
a day, compared with the 300 kilometers they run now, he said.  “I wish there were roads that allow us to drive faster,”
he said. “Then we could return home sooner.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  