-- Indian Exchange Seeks to End Guar Futures Ban Before Sowing
-- B y   M a d e l e n e   P e a r s o n   a n d   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2012-06-28T05:22:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/indian-exchange-seeks-to-end-guar-futures-ban-before-sowing-1-.html
National Commodity and Derivatives
Exchange Ltd., India’s largest bourse for farm goods, wants
approval to restart guar contracts, three months after the
market regulator banned trading to curb speculation.  The exchange, known as NCDEX, has asked the regulator for
permission to relist guar gum and guar seed futures, Chief
Executive Officer R. Ramaseshan said in an interview in Mumbai
yesterday. In March, India suspended trading in guar gum, a
thickening agent used in hydraulic fracturing by companies such
as  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  to extract gas trapped in shale, after prices
rallied nine-fold to a record.  Restarting guar futures may help NCDEX boost trade turnover
and allow companies such as  Vikas WSP Ltd. (VWSP)  to hedge prices amid
forecasts farmers in India, the world’s top grower and exporter,
will boost planting by as much as 20 percent. Guar contracts
were two of the top five traded commodities by volume on NCDEX,
according to its website.  “The suspension will not keep users away,” said B.D.
Agarwal, managing director of Vikas, India’s only publicly
traded producer of guar gum. “Earlier if there were four or
five people, now more people will come in.”  Guar gum rallied to 95,920 rupees ($1,680) per 100
kilograms on NCDEX on March 21, extending gains for a fourth
year. Halliburton, the top fracking services provider, said this
month a potential shortage of the gum has driven up costs more
than expected.  Planting Crop  The ban on futures may be lifted and new contracts allowed
as early as next month once planting of the new crop is
completed, Ramesh Abhishek, chairman of the Forward Markets
Commission, said June 14.  “We will wait for sowing to be done by the end of July and
take a call on allowing contracts that will expire in October,
which is when the new harvest will arrive,” Abhishek said.
“They can be launched maybe end of July, early August.”  Farmers may sow as much as 20 percent more area under the
crop from 3.5 million hectares (8.6 million acres) this year,
Rajesh Kedia, a director at Jai Bharat Gum & Chemicals Ltd., the
country’s second-biggest exporter of guar gum, said on April 20.  Planting of summer crops in  India  starts with the onset of
the monsoon rains in June and harvesting begins in October.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Madelene Pearson in Mumbai at 
 mpearson1@bloomberg.net ;
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  