-- Indonesia Stocks May Climb 16% by Year-End, Bourse Says
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a   a n d   W i d y a   U t a m i
-- 2012-06-28T09:33:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/indonesia-stocks-may-climb-14-by-year-end-bourse-says.html
Indonesia ’s  benchmark stock index 
may rise as much as 16 percent by year-end, as the bourse lures
local retail investors to counter sales by overseas funds amid
 Europe ’s debt crisis, the nation’s exchange president said.  The  Jakarta Composite Index (JCI)  may advance to as high as
4,500, said Indonesia Stock Exchange President Ito Warsito, who
was approved by shareholders yesterday to serve a second three-
year term. The index closed at 3,887.58 today. The bourse
expects to almost triple the number of local investors to 1
million by 2015, from about 395,000 currently, to help cushion
the market from external shocks, he said.  “Our market is more resilient than it was in 2008, and
that’s with less than 400,000 local investors,” Warsito, 50,
said in an interview in Jakarta yesterday, referring to the
index’s 51 percent plunge that year amid the global financial
crisis. “With 1 million investors, we’ll be more resilient.”  The gauge has lost 5.7 percent this quarter as overseas
funds sold riskier assets amid concern European debt woes are
worsening and  China ’s economic slowdown is deepening. That
compares with a 13 percent drop in the  MSCI Emerging Markets
Index (MXEF)  and a 9.2 percent loss in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index.
Foreign investors  sold  a net $2.04 billion of Indonesian stocks
this quarter, poised for the biggest selloff since the three
months ended March 31, 2005.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. downgraded its outlook for Indonesia
to neutral from overweight on June 21, saying slowing growth in
China may cut demand for commodities from the world’s largest
exporter of thermal coal.  Retail Investors  Foreign investors accounted for about 42 percent of trading
in Indonesia this year, compared with 35 percent last year,
Warsito said. Indonesia’s retail investors amount to about 0.2
percent of its total population. The bourse plans to increase
that eventually to 1 percent, or about 2.3 million, Warsito
said.  The bourse is educating the public about stock investments
through 16 capital-market information centers around the
country. It’s also seeking to accelerate the licensing process
for capital market personnel such as marketing staff, Warsito
said.  “Education is important,” said Jason Shin, president
director at  PT eTrading Securities , Indonesia’s biggest online
brokerage. “But tax incentives are also important. The
government should take concrete measures to increase the number
of investors,” he said.  Fastest Growth  Indonesia’s gross national income per capita rose 69
percent in the nine years to 2009, widening the pool of middle-
income class households that may invest in stocks. Gross
national income per capita rose to $3,720 in 2009 from $2,200 in
2000, according to a World Bank statement on its website.  “The market for equity mutual funds is still promising,”
Abiprayadi Riyanto, chairman of the Indonesian Mutual Fund
Managers Association, said today. “Indonesia’s economic growth
is driven by domestic demand. Sixty percent of Indonesians are
in the productive age of 15 to 50 years, meaning more
consumption in the future.”  The nation’s economy,  Southeast Asia ’s biggest, expanded
6.46 percent last year, the fastest pace since before the 1997
Asian financial crisis, as rising investment and domestic
spending countered a slowdown in exports demand as Europe’s debt
crisis worsened.  Domestic consumption made up 55 percent of the economy in
the first quarter, according to data from the central statistics
office.  The benchmark index has risen 1.7 percent this year,
trading at 13.5 times estimated earnings, compared with the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index’s 9.9 times.  “Indonesia’s economic fundamentals and companies’
fundamentals are still good,” Warsito said. “Whatever happens
in Europe, foreign investors will still need to invest their
funds.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net ;
Widya Utami in Jakarta at  wutami@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  