-- Lira Sinks Most This Month on Rate Cut Bets; Yields Extend Fall
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-06-28T15:07:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/lira-sinks-to-two-week-low-on-rate-cut-bets-yields-extend-fall.html
The lira weakened the most this
month and bond yields fell after Governor Erdem Basci said the
central bank may cut its inflation forecast, reinvigorating
speculation of a rate cut.  The Turkish currency retreated 0.9 percent to 1.8307 per
dollar at 4:56 p.m. in Istanbul, the biggest drop since May 30.
Its loss today is the second-worst among more than 20 emerging-
market currencies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
 yield  on two-year debt slid for a third day, down four basis
points to 8.61 percent, the least since October. Yields have
slid 70 basis points in the second quarter.  The  inflation  forecast of 6.5 percent at year-end may be
lowered to the bank’s 5 percent official target if the trend in
commodity and  oil prices  continues, Basci said at a conference
in Ankara today. The rate of price increases slipped to 8.3
percent last month from a three-year high of 11.1 percent as the
average  cost of daily funding  rose to 9.8 percent in May from
8.3 percent in April.  “The central bank’s statement that it may reduce its
inflation forecast gave rise to the view that it will cut
rates,” Tufan Comert, a strategist at Garanti Securities in
Istanbul, said in an e-mailed note. “This is negative for the
lira.”  One-year  interest-rate swaps  headed for their biggest
decline since Feb. 1 to 9.45 percent today, signaling traders
are betting on a rate cut. The coming months may see a
“serious” decline in inflation, Finance Minister  Mehmet Simsek 
said in an interview with BloombergHT television yesterday.  Crude oil prices have fallen 24 percent this quarter,
heading for the biggest drop since the final three months of
2008.  Turkey  imports almost all of the oil it consumes. The
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials has fallen
19 percent from this year’s highest close of 715.52 on Feb. 24.  The central bank lent 2 billion liras ($1.1 billion) today
at 5.75 percent in its one-week repurchase agreements auction,
the same amount banks are due to repay from last week’s repo
auction. It has lent at the lowest policy rate for 18
consecutive days, the longest stretch of cheaper lending since
March.  The  cost of borrowing  in the  interbank market  fell to 6.93
percent today, the lowest level since Feb. 14 and the eighth day
of declines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  