-- Ireland Said to Consider RBS Model for Banks’ Unprofitable Loans
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-06-28T12:20:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/ireland-said-to-consider-rbs-model-for-banks-unprofitable-loans.html
Irish authorities are considering
moving unprofitable home loans into strengthened non-core units
within banks as proposals to strip them from lenders run into
difficulty, a person with direct knowledge of the matter said.  The government has been in talks with its aid partners on
transferring these loans to a so-called asset warehouse to make
the banks easier to sell in the future. Instead, the state may
urge transfer of the loans into clearly-defined separate units,
similar to the approach taken by  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc , said the person, who asked not to be identified as the
matter is still being considered.  Ireland experienced the costliest banking crisis among
advanced economies since at least the Great Depression,
according to the  International Monetary Fund . The Irish state
controls three of the nation’s four biggest domestic lenders,
after injecting about 63 billion euros ($78.3 billion) into the
industry when a real-estate bubble collapsed in 2008.  So-called tracker loans, which are tied to the  European
Central Bank ’s key rate, account for about half of the mortgage
market in Ireland and have become unprofitable as official
 interest rates  fell and the banks’ funding costs soared.  IBRC, the former Anglo Irish Bank Corp., was in talks about
taking over the troubled loans, Chief Executive Officer  Mike Aynsley  said in March. Freeing the banks of these mortgages
would encourage them to start lending again, he said. Finance
Minister  Michael Noonan  has said a removal of the loans would
help the state sell down its bank stakes over time.  The  Finance Ministry  said in an e-mailed statement today
that “it has been and continues to examine various alternatives
concerning the Irish banking system within the context of the
evolving European frameworks.”  ‘Complicated Process’  Viable proposals to strip such loans from the lenders
balance sheets are proving hard to formulate, the person said.
No final proposal on an asset transfer is in sight, three people
familiar with the matter said.  The troika overseeing Ireland’s bailout, the IMF, the ECB
and European Commission, arrive in Dublin next week for the
seventh review of the nation’s 67.5 billion-euro aid program.  John Moran , the most senior finance ministry official, told
lawmakers on June 7 that talks with European officials on the
issue include the “complicated process of assessing the capital
impact of moving assets around the system.”  Against that backdrop, segregating the mortgage assets into
separate units within the banks is being weighed.  RBS Approach  The model implemented by Edinburgh-based RBS is under
consideration. Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  created a
separate unit to reverse the $140 billion of acquisitions made
by his predecessor  Fred Goodwin , which led the bank to cede
control to the government.  The bank in 2009 said the division would include 240
billion pounds ($373 billion) of third-party assets and 145
billion pounds of derivative balances to wind down or sell over
five years.  While state-controlled  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK)  has set up a
unit for assets it plans to sell or run off, it does not include
tracker mortgages. Permanent TSB Group Holdings Plc, also more
than 99 percent government owned, is moving risky home loans to
a new internal asset-management unit.  Bank of Ireland Plc , which
is 15.1 percent owned by the state, doesn’t have a separate unit
for assets it intends to sell or wind down.  Ireland already removed troubled loans to property
developers from lenders by setting up the National Asset
Management Agency, a state-run bad bank. Taxpayers had to pump
cash into the lenders after NAMA paid a 58 percent discount on
the loans it bought, blowing holes in the banks’ balance sheets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  