-- Is a True Work-Family Balance Still Possible?
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2012-06-28T22:30:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/is-a-true-work-family-balance-still-possible-.html
Perhaps you’ve heard that Anne-Marie Slaughter, a former U.S. State Department official, wrote an
article recently for the Atlantic (the magazine I also happen to
write for) about women who thought they could “have it all”
learning the hard way that they cannot.  The reason I know Slaughter wrote  this article  is that it’s
the only thing anyone in that small slice of America who is in a
position to have it all -- that is, a financially rewarding and
non-agita-inducing balance between career and family -- has been
talking about this past week, at least until the  Supreme Court 
did a favor for the other 99 percent.  Slaughter, with all due respect, isn’t the first person on
earth to discover the difficulty of having it all. Her article
is smartly written, and the plight she identifies is real: She
raises a whole cluster of issues about how the American
workplace is structured to thwart women who seek successful
careers and also want to have a meaningful relationship with
their children.  But Slaughter only nods in the direction of a few points I
think she could address more deeply. The first is that
professional women aren’t the only group having difficulty
keeping work and family in balance. Men, particularly those who
value an active role in their family life, now face a set of
choices their fathers and grandfathers didn’t. This isn’t to say
the problems are equivalent; women are most often the parent of
last resort. But men, too, are tortured by the lack of time at
home.  An Absence  The most chilling image in her article -- at least from the
perspective of a father who never feels he is spending enough
time with his children -- is this: “At the diplomat  Richard Holbrooke ’s memorial service,” Slaughter writes, “one of his
sons told the audience that when he was a child, his father was
often gone, not around to teach him to throw a ball or watch his
games. But as he grew older, he said, he realized that
Holbrooke’s absence was the price of saving people around the
world -- a price worth paying.”  She continues: “It is not clear to me that this ethical
framework makes sense for society. Why should we want leaders
who fall short on personal responsibilities?”  This anecdote stands out as a cautionary tale about the
sacrifices men make for their careers. But it also suggests a
certain level of naivete on Slaughter’s part. Is it really
possible to imagine Holbrooke, in the midst of negotiating an
end to war in the Balkans, informing  Slobodan Milosevic  that he
would like to postpone negotiations on account of a Little
League game? There are some jobs that demand a level of
commitment that leads to subsidiary misery. Slaughter herself
seemed unaware that it might have been difficult for her to run
a division of the State Department while keeping her family in
Princeton,  New Jersey . I’m sympathetic to her ambition -- as I
am to men like Holbrooke -- but some work-family balance issues
simply cannot be fixed.  The other issue Slaughter mentions too fleetingly is that
the problems of most professional-class women are ultimately
caviar problems. The vast majority of American women must work
in order to feed themselves and their children; they have little
time to consider their own fulfillment. Not to mention the
hundreds of millions of women around the world who spend their
days trying to keep their families alive by gathering firewood
and water, and by scraping together a dollar or two a day.  Of course, Slaughter -- formerly of  Hillary Clinton ’s State
Department, which is trying to make the advancement of  women’s
rights  an integral part of American foreign policy -- knows this
better than anyone. I asked her by e-mail if she felt any
frustration about the response to her article. After all, she’s
a staunch advocate of human rights and humanitarian
intervention, issues that receive little attention in the public
sphere today. Her article on the frustrations of career and
family has gotten her more attention than anything she has said
about, for example, the U.S. responsibility to the women of
Afghanistan.  Human Nature  “To say I am ‘frustrated’ about anything given the
unbelievable response to my piece would be churlish indeed,” she
wrote me. But she added: “I wish I could get people so
passionate about foreign policy. I think it’s human nature,
however, to respond much more intensely to something that
touches your daily life; indeed in some ways it’s remarkable
that as many Americans (and others in countries around the
world) care as deeply as they do about lives far away.”  Slaughter, in our exchange, made an important point about
the link between the issue for which she is newly famous and the
cause of human rights. “I do not think it is accidental that as
more women rise in foreign policy, they feel much more strongly,
not only about the abstract advancement of ‘national interest’
but about the lived reality of people’s lives around the world,
particularly women and children and communities. Indeed, I say
something about that in the piece in terms of how our leaders
will think about the impact of their decisions if they are fully
engaged with family life at home.”  Slaughter uses  Afghanistan  as an example: “I remember
clearly the first time I was at a foreign policy discussion
about Afghanistan where there were enough women in the room to
empower all of us to insist on the importance of not abandoning
Afghan women to the Taliban once again.” Normally, she said, a
woman would have been unlikely to raise such an issue “for fear
of seeming soft.”  There is nothing soft, of course, about worrying after the
women of Afghanistan, who face choices that are beyond the
imagination of most Americans. But if men are indeed scared to
make foreign-policy decisions informed by humane instincts, then
this is all the more reason to encourage Slaughter’s campaign to
get us to rethink the way we organize our professional lives.  The small tragedy is that, in real life, there may be no
way for government officials -- or for many of us -- to get home
each night for dinner.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for the Atlantic. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why  John Roberts saved
Obamacare  and why  Mexico ’s next president  must combat its
economic cartels ; Stephen L. Carter in praise of  Supreme Court
secrecy ;  Noah Feldman  on  Roberts’s restraint ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on
 misunderstanding the court ’s decision; William Pesek on
 Myanmar’s economic development ;  Jonathan Weil  on how the  Bank
for International Settlements   sees the industry ;  Steven Greenhut 
on using eminent domain to  take over foreclosed homes .  To contact the author of this column:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 