-- Spanish Bond Yields Rise to 7% Before Crisis Summit
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-06-28T10:27:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/italy-pays-most-since-december-to-sell-5-4-billion-euros-of-debt.html
Italy  paid the most to sell 10-year
debt since December as European Union leaders began a summit
today that aims to produce a lasting solution to the euro-region
debt crisis that has been driving up borrowing costs.  Italy sold 5.42 billion euros ($6.74 billion) of five- and
10-year bonds, near the maximum 5.5 billion-euro target for the
sale. The Treasury priced the 10-year debt  to yield  6.19
percent, up from 6.03 percent on May 30. The Treasury priced its
five-year bond to yield 5.84 percent, compared with 5.66 percent
last month.  “Today’s sale was all about the EU summit,” Nicholas
Spiro, managing director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy in  London ,
said in an e-mail. “Sentiment-wise, this was not so much an
auction of Italian paper as a sale of euro-zone debt that
happened to be issued by the Italian sovereign. The results have
very little to do with Italian fundamentals. The ever-larger
concessions stem from market fears that Italy may follow in
 Spain ’s footsteps.”  Monti is facing growing pressure from the parties
supporting his unelected government to convince Merkel to
reverse her opposition to collective debt sales and other
measures aimed at bringing down borrowing costs. The yield on
Italy’s 10-year bond has jumped more than 50 basis points since
Spain requested a bailout on June 9 on fears Italy may be next.
Merkel has so far shut the door to joint euro-area bonds, which
she said yesterday were the “wrong way” to achieve the greater
European integration needed to stem the debt crisis.  Bond Decline  The yield on Italy’s 10-year bond rose 5 basis points to
6.251 percent, the highest in two weeks, leaving the yield
 difference  with comparable German debt at 476 basis points.  Monti says that the deepening crisis is fueling a growing
backlash against the euro.  “If the public opinion sees that bad signals, not good
signals are coming back from the markets, well then people may
be discouraged and political forces which say let European
integration, let the euro, let this or that country go to hell
might prevail,” he said last night in Brussels before the start
of the meeting.  EU Plan  The EU leaders are due to discuss a plan seen playing out
over more than a decade for closer European integration. The
blueprint, written by EU President  Herman Van Rompuy , centers on
common banking supervision and deposit insurance, along with a
“criteria-based and phased” move toward joint debt issuance.
The blueprint also suggests that the EU could impose upper
limits on annual budgets and debt levels of nations that use the
euro.  “The EU summit is likely to take steps to outline a long-
term road map but fail to deliver a quick-fix to stabilize
financial markets,” Jamie Searle, a fixed-income strategist at
Citigroup Inc. in London, wrote in a note before the auction.
Italian bond “yields are likely to remain under pressure
following the summit, not helped by rising domestic political
tension and ratings pressure.”  The summit comes after Cyprus this week became the fifth
euro-area country to ask for help from the 17-nation region’s
firewall, following rescues of  Greece , Ireland,  Portugal  and
Spain’s request for funds to shore up its banks.  Market turmoil is weighing on Italy, which is mired in
its fourth recession since 2001 and needs to sell an average of
35 billion euros of debt a month to finance  Europe ’s second-
biggest debt. Demand today may have been helped by a 17 billion-
euro bond redemption due July 1 that may have prompted some
buying as
banks looked to rollover their Italian debt holdings.  At today’s auction investors bid for 1.28 times the amount
of 10-year debt offered, down from 1.40 times last month. Bids
for the five-year debt reached 1.54 times the amount offered, up
from the 1.35 times on May 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  