-- Italy Upsets Germany 2-1 to Earn Spot in Euro 2012 Soccer Final
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-06-28T22:15:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/italy-beats-germany-2-1-to-advance-to-euro-2012-soccer-final.html
Italy upset tournament favorite
Germany 2-1 to move into the final of the European soccer
championship against defending champion  Spain .  Mario Balotelli  scored both goals last night at the
National Stadium in Warsaw to lead Italy to the final for the
third time. Italy won its only European championship in 1968 and
lost the title match to France 12 years ago.  Mesut Ozil scored with a penalty kick in second-half injury
time for Germany, which had its 15-match winning streak in
competitive games stopped. The Germans were the favorite of
bookmakers to win a record-extending fourth title.  “We have played an extraordinary game,” Italy coach
Cesare Prandelli told reporters. “We have given an example of
how to show grace and an attachment to the shirt.”  He said Balotelli was “brilliant, but this was a team
effort.”  Italy , which is unbeaten in eight competitive matches with
Germany, faces Spain in  Kiev  on July 1. Spain is trying to
become the first team to successfully defend its European title.  Germany was looking to reach consecutive Euro finals after
losing 1-0 to the Spanish four years ago. The Germans last won
the title in 1996.  “It was a very, very bitter defeat,” German captain
Philipp Lahm said on the website of tournament organizer UEFA.
“In the second half we tried everything, but our goal came too
late.”  Pirlo Block  Defender Mats Hummels almost gave Germany the lead in the
fifth minute when he directed Toni Kroos’s corner kick past
goalkeeper  Gianluigi Buffon , only to have the ball blocked by
 Andrea Pirlo  at the post.  Buffon then fumbled Jerome Boateng’s low shot, with the
rebound going out for a corner off defender Andrea Barzagli, and
also punched out Kroos’s shot. German goalkeeper  Manuel Neuer 
stopped Italy’s first two chances from Riccardo Montolivo and
 Antonio Cassano .  Italy took the lead on 20 minutes as Cassano worked himself
away from two defenders on the left and sent a cross which
Balotelli headed past Neuer.  Buffon saved against Ozil seven minutes later and Kroos
fired wide. Sami Khedira then sent a long shot which Buffon
lunged to knock out for a corner.  Italy doubled the lead in the 36th minute as a pass from
Montolivo put Balotelli behind the German defense, allowing him
to blast a shot into the top right corner.  Germany Changes  Germany manager Joachim Loew changed his attack to start
the second half, bringing on  Miroslav Klose  and Marco Reus in
place of  Mario Gomez  and  Lukas Podolski .  Reus had a chance after two minutes, which Buffon easily
gathered in, and Lahm fired an effort over goal.  Balotelli shot past the far post in the 60th minute and
Buffon leaped to knock a free kick from Reus over the bar for a
corner. Claudio Marchisio then shot wide after taking a pass
between defenders from Alessandro Diamanti, who came on for
Cassano earlier in the half.  Balotelli was replaced in the 70th minute by Antonio Di Natale, while Germany made its final substitution moments later
with  Thomas Mueller  in for Boateng.  Marchisio once again shot wide after working himself free
in the area, while Hummels headed a corner kick over goal and
Kroos shot high down the other end.  Di Natale  was set free behind the defense with eight
minutes left as Germany pushed forward, but hit the side of the
net. Buffon stopped a deflected shot from Hummels in the 90th
minute and Ozil shot wide off the resulting corner.  Late Penalty  Germany finally scored in the second of four added minutes
as Ozil converted from the penalty spot after a handball against
Federico Balzaretti.  Spain advanced to the final by beating Portugal 4-2 in a
penalty shootout two nights ago in Donetsk, Ukraine. The match
had finished 0-0 after regulation play and 30 minutes of extra
time.  Italy and Spain tied 1-1 when they met on June 10 in the
opening match of Group C, with both teams remaining unbeaten
through the tournament.  “We showed we’re on Spain’s level and that’s where we
started this run,” Marchisio told reporters. “It’s no longer a
question of fear. Now we’ve got to pull out everything we still
have inside ourselves.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 