-- J&F’s Plan to Acquire Rede Said to Face Brazil Opposition
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2012-06-28T16:42:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/j-f-s-plan-to-acquire-rede-said-to-face-brazil-opposition.html
J&F Participacoes SA, owner of the
world’s biggest beef producer, faces opposition from  Brazil ’s
state development bank to its plan to buy energy distributor
 Rede Energia SA (REDE4) , said two people familiar with the discussions.  The  state bank , known as BNDES, opposes J&F’s expansion
into industries not related to the Sao Paulo-based company’s
main businesses, said one of the people, who asked not to be
identified because the matter isn’t public. In a private
meeting, BNDES officials told a controlling J&F shareholder that
the purchase should be avoided, the person said.  BNDES owns 31 percent of J&F’s food unit,  JBS SA (JBSS3) , and has
the right to block acquisitions by the subsidiary under a
shareholder agreement. BNDES has provided more than 7.3 billion
reais ($3.5 billion) in capital and loans to J&F units since
June 2007, according to the development bank’s website. The
company’s businesses include beef processing, toilet and hygiene
products, and pulp and paper operations.  J&F has been considering a purchase of Sao Paulo-based Rede
Energia and hasn’t entered into formal negotiations, said Miguel
Bueno, a spokesman for J&F. He denied that BNDES is opposing any
deal. “J&F is an independent company,” Bueno said in a phone
interview from  Sao Paulo .  Rede Energia and BNDES officials declined to comment and
asked not to be named to comply with company policies.  Rede Energia, a holding company that controls power
distributors, has sought a new owner for more than a year. In
February, its  Centrais Eletricas do Para SA  subsidiary filed for
 bankruptcy protection  and defaulted on dollar bonds.  Rating Lowered  Rede Energia’s  credit rating  was cut to restricted default
by  Fitch Ratings  on June 13 after the utility extended interest
payments and reserved the right to repay debt with equity from
its units in a restructuring of local bonds.  In June 2006, BNDES Participacoes SA, the investment arm of
the state development bank, made a capital injection of 1.46
billion reais in JBS, the world’s biggest beef producer.  In 2009, JBS sold 3.48 billion reais in convertible bonds
to BNDES to fund the acquisition of Greeley, Colorado-based
 Pilgrim’s Pride Corp. (PPC)  and Bertin SA. BNDES almost doubled its
JBS stake last year by converting the debt into stock.  JBS is the biggest unit of J&F, founded by the Batista
family in 1994, and has grown to include units in health,
farming, education, reforestation, and banking.  BNDES approved 2.7 billion reais in financing for Eldorado
Celulose e Papel, also a J&F unit, to be used to build the
world’s largest pulp factory, according to an e-mailed statement
last June.  An investment fund of FGTS, Brazil’s workers’ compensation
fund, and BNDES Participacoes SA are also  shareholders  in Rede
Energia, which distributes electricity in seven Brazilian
states.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  