-- Japan’s Retail Sales Rose a More-Than-Forecast 3.6% in May
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2012-06-28T01:44:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/japan-s-retail-sales-rose-more-than-forecast-in-may.html
Japan ’s retail sales rose more than
forecast in May, a sign that  consumer spending  will help sustain
a rebound in the world’s third-largest economy.  Sales advanced 3.6 percent from a year earlier the Trade
Ministry said in  Tokyo  today. The median estimate of 13
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a 2.9 percent
increase. From a month earlier, sales gained 0.7 percent.  Rebuilding in north-eastern regions devastated by last 
year's earthquake and government incentives to bolster 
purchases of automobiles have boosted consumption. Prime
Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  aims to sustain growth as  Europe ’s 
sovereign-debt crisis and strength in the yen restrain 
exporters’ sales and profits.  “Consumption remains solid,” said  Azusa Kato , an
economist at BNP Paribas in Tokyo. Demand in quake-affected
areas in the northeast have also been bolstering retail sales,
she said.  The yen traded at 79.46 per dollar as of 10:29 a.m. in
Tokyo and the Nikkei 225 Stock Average climbed 1.1 percent after
orders for U.S. durable goods and contracts to buy existing
homes rebounded in May. In April, retail sales rose 5.7 percent
from a year earlier.  Japan’s economy grew an annualized  4.7 percent  in the first
quarter, with household outlays driving most of the expansion.
Motor vehicle sales rose 66.3 percent in May from a year
earlier, according to a report released by the Japan Automobile
Dealers Association on June 1. The government reintroduced a
subsidy program for certified low-emission vehicles in December,
encouraging consumers to spend.  Slower Growth  The risk is that the expansion will cool as the boost for
these incentives fade, BNP’s Kato said. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News predict gross domestic product growth will
decelerate next year from this year’s pace as reconstruction
demand wears off.  “Looking ahead, there will be few positive factors for
Japan’s economy,” Kato said. “Japan’s economy probably won’t
go into a recession or stall, but it’s unavoidable that the pace
of expansion will slow.”  Seven & I Holdings Co. (3382) , the owner of the 7-Eleven
convenience-store brand, forecast profit will rise 19 percent in
the year ending February 2013 as it adds new stores in Japan and
overseas, it said in a statement in April.  Shimamura Co. (8227) , a Japanese apparel retailer, predicted in
April that profit will rise 7.9 percent in the 12 months through
February 2013 as sales grow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  