-- Japan Consumer Prices Fall Before Central Bank Policy Meeting
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2012-06-28T23:45:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/japan-consumer-prices-fall-before-central-bank-policy-meeting.html
Japan ’s consumer prices declined 0.1
percent in a report released ahead of a central bank meeting
next month, when policy makers will review adding more stimulus.  Consumer prices  excluding fresh food fell 0.1 percent in
May from a year earlier, the statistics bureau said in Tokyo
today. The median estimate of 28 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was for no change.  The  Bank of Japan (8301)  is under pressure to do more to help the
nation shake off deflation and sustain a recovery from last
year’s tsunami and earthquake. A planned increase in the
consumption tax in 2014 and 2015, approved by the lower house of
parliament this week, may become a drag on the economy by
discouraging spending.  “Japan’s progress towards defeating deflation is very
slow,” said  Yoshiki Shinke , chief economist at Dai-Ichi Life
Research Institute in Tokyo, before the release. “The BOJ may
come under more pressure for additional stimulus because of
stagnant price growth, especially when the government is coming
closer to increasing sales tax.”  The  jobless rate  dropped to 4.4 percent in May and the
number of available jobs per job applicant rose to 0.81.
Household spending increased 4 percent, separate government
reports also showed in Tokyo today.  Oil fell below $80 a barrel last week for the first time in
eight months, contributing to Japan’s regular gasoline prices
falling for a 12th week as of June 25, according to Japan’s
energy agency.  Aeon Co. (8267) , Japan’s biggest retailer, will lower the price of
1,000 goods because lackluster income growth and consumers’
concerns about the global economy are restraining spending, the
company said June 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in  Tokyo  at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  