-- Japan Slump Not an Obstacle in Sales Tax Boost, Ex-Official Says
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a   a n d   K y o k o   S h i m o d o i
-- 2012-06-28T01:04:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/japan-slump-not-an-obstacle-in-sales-tax-boost-ex-official-says.html
Japanese policy makers likely won’t
allow an economic slowdown to derail the plan to increase the 5
percent sales tax from 2014, a former Finance Ministry official
who oversaw the boost in the levy in 1997 said.  “The Japanese government will probably push through a tax
increase even if the pace of economic growth slows somewhat”
and deflation lingers, Shigeki Morinobu, 62, formerly a director
of the ministry’s tax bureau and currently a professor at Chuo
University’s law school in Tokyo, said in an interview this
week. “Failure to go through with the increase may spur
investor concern that  Japan  lacks the will to raise taxes.”  Only a crisis akin to the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. in 2008 would compel the government to abandon
Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s plan to double the levy, which
won approval of the lower house of parliament this week, said
Morinobu. Japan’s economy slid into a 20-month recession when
the tax was raised from 3 percent in 1997 as  consumer spending 
cooled and the Asian Financial Crisis crimped demand.  The legislation, which proposes raising the levy to 8
percent in 2014 and then to 10 percent the following year, has a
non-binding stipulation that higher taxes will only be
introduced if economic circumstances have improved. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News predict gross domestic product growth
will decelerate next year from this year’s pace as
reconstruction demand from last year’s earthquake fades.  ‘Major Step’  A tax increase will be a “major step forward” to get the
country closer to the government’s goal of eliminating a  budget
deficit  by 2020 and regain trust in Japan’s fiscal condition,
even though the Cabinet Office has already projected the
proposed increases alone won’t be enough to attain the goal by
that year, said Morinobu.  The government’s goal of balancing the budget “must be
achieved at all costs because it’s a crucial step to halt the
expansion of outstanding public debt,” he said.  Japan should also avoid depending on sales tax increases
alone to reduce public debt and instead it should consider
broadening the taxable income brackets and reducing or
eliminating deductions such as those for pensioners and spouses,
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net ;
Kyoko Shimodoi in  Tokyo  at 
 kshimodoi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  