-- JetBlue Pilot Pleads Not Guilty to Interfering With Crew
-- B y   C a t h y   M a r t i n d a l e   a n d   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-06-28T15:25:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/jetblue-pilot-pleads-not-guilty-to-interfering-with-crew.html
Clayton Osbon, the  JetBlue Airways
Corp. (JBLU)  pilot arrested in March after his erratic behavior led to
the diversion of a flight, pleaded not guilty to a charge that
he interfered with his flight crew.  Osbon entered the plea today before U.S. Magistrate Judge
Clinton Averitte in Amarillo,  Texas , after a June 15 hearing in
which he was found mentally fit to stand trial by mutual
agreement of the prosecution and defense. Osbon told the court
in April that he would rely on an insanity defense.  Osbon’s behavior while captain of a March 27 flight from
 New York  to  Las Vegas  caused his co-pilot to bar him from the
cockpit, according to a federal agent’s affidavit filed with a
criminal complaint. After Osbon began shouting and pounding on
the flight deck door, he was restrained by passengers.  The plane was diverted to Amarillo, where Osbon was taken
into custody. A U.S. judge on April 4 ordered the pilot to take
a competency exam evaluating his fitness to stand trial and
whether he was sane at the time of his alleged offense. He was
indicted on April 11 and remains in custody.  Ten New York-area passengers on the flight sued the pilot
and JetBlue for claims including assault, reckless infliction of
emotional distress and negligent supervision, hiring and
retention. The passengers are seeking compensatory and punitive
damages in New York State Supreme Court in Queens, where the
airline is based.  If convicted, Osbon could be sentenced to as long as 20
years in prison and fined $250,000, according to U.S. Attorney
Sarah R. Saldana in  Dallas .  The criminal case is U.S. v. Osbon, 12-cr-00017, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Texas (Amarillo). The civil
case is Euler v. JetBlue Airways Corp., 701032/2012, New York
State Supreme Court (Queens).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cathy Martindale in Amarillo, Texas;
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  