-- Jobless Claims in U.S. Hovered Last Week Near 2012 High
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o   a n d   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-06-28T20:50:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/jobless-claims-in-u-s-hovered-last-week-near-2012-high.html
Applications for jobless benefits
hovered last week near the highest level of the year, showing
continuing weakness in the U.S. labor market.  Claims for unemployment insurance payments decreased by
6,000 to 386,000 in the week ended June 23, according to Labor
Department figures issued today in  Washington . The revised
392,000 claims in the previous week matched the most this year.
The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index also showed growing
apprehension over the state of the economy.  Concern about the  European debt crisis  and the so-called
fiscal cliff that the U.S. faces at the end of this year may
prompt employers to keep payrolls lean, limiting the hiring
needed to boost consumer spending. A 57-cent per gallon decrease
in gasoline prices since early April is providing some relief,
helping offset concern the job market is weakening by allowing
employed Americans to stretch their paychecks.  “We’re going to see consumers be cautious over the next
few months,” said  Ryan Sweet , a senior economist at Moody’s
Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania , who projected
385,000 claims. “Spending is going to be soft, and I think it’s
because of the job market. The labor market is not creating the
wage income necessary.”  Stocks pared losses in the final hour of trading amid
speculation European leaders were nearing agreement on ways to
halt contagion from the debt crisis. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index dropped 0.2 percent to 1,329.04 at the 4 p.m. close in  New
York .  Treasury securities  rose, sending the yield on the
benchmark 10-year note down to 1.58 percent from 1.62 percent
late yesterday.  Europe Slumps  Elsewhere, economic confidence in the euro area slumped in
June to the lowest since October 2009, adding to signs the
economy fell back into a recession, and German unemployment
increased more than economists forecast.  The  U.S. economy , the world’s largest, expanded 1.9 percent
in the first quarter, the same as previously estimated,
reflecting a gain in consumer spending that now shows signs of
cooling, according to data from the Commerce Department also
issued today. It grew at a 3 percent pace in the last three
months of 2011.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index rose to minus 36.1 in
the week ended June 24 from minus 37.9 in the previous period.
The gauge of household finances was positive for the first time
since April, while sentiment toward the state of the economy
dropped to the lowest level since February.  The report also showed confidence among higher-income
households turned negative for the first time in three months as
 Europe ’s debt crisis hurts stock prices.  Less Spending  “The decline in confidence among households earning more
than $100,000 per year likely reflects concerns about portfolio
exposure to the crisis in Europe and the global economic
slowdown,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist at
Bloomberg LP in New York. Since the top 40 percent of income
earners accounts for about 60 percent of consumer purchases,
“even a modest pullback can have outsized effects on household
spending and overall growth,” he said.  Shares of  Coach Inc. (COH) , the largest U.S. luxury handbag
maker, slumped 25 percent since the end of March through
yesterday on investor concern that department-store sales are
slowing.  “Obviously, the macro environment is uncertain and one of
the things that we work hard to do is to navigate nimbly through
that environment,” Chief Executive Officer Lew Frankfort told
investors June 5 at a consumer conference.  Survey Results  The median forecast of 46 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
projected jobless claims would come in at 385,000. Estimates
ranged from 372,000 to 392,000.  The four-week moving average decreased to 386,750 from
387,500, which was the highest since the week ended Dec. 3.  Payrolls in May expanded by 69,000 workers, the slowest
pace in a year, and have cooled each month since January. The
 jobless rate , which climbed to 8.2 percent in May, has been
stuck above 8 percent since February 2009, the longest stretch
of such elevated levels in the post-World War II era.  The employment report for June will be released on July 6.  “The problems in the job market that we saw in April and
May have extended well into June,” said Sweet from Moody’s
Analytics. “I think it’s going to be another disappointing
report.”  Initial jobless claims reflect weekly firings and tend to
fall as job growth -- measured by the monthly non-farm payrolls
report -- accelerates.  Fed Action  Federal Reserve policy makers last week expanded a program
to replace short-term bonds with longer-term debt in a bid to
spur growth and trim a jobless rate that’s exceeded 8 percent
for 40 consecutive months.  “There is no progress,” said Jeremy Lawson, a senior U.S.
economist at BNP Paribas in New York. “There is clearly an
underlying weakness that is troubling. The labor market is
sputtering along, struggling to create jobs. The pace of
 consumer spending  will slow in the second quarter.”  Retail sales fell 0.2 percent in May, matching the decrease
in April, Commerce Department figures showed earlier this month.
Sales excluding  car dealerships  slumped by the most in two
years.  “The economy is really in a difficult spot at the
moment,” said BNP Paribas’ Lawson. “With the labor market weak
and the outlook for incomes weak, it’s hard to see how consumer
spending can grow solidly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net ;
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  