-- JPMorgan Slips on Report Trading Loss Widened to $9 Billion
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2012-06-28T13:11:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/jpmorgan-slips-on-report-of-trading-loss-widening-to-9-billion.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  fell more than
6 percent in New York  trading  after the New York Times reported
the lender’s losses from credit derivatives may eventually
total as much as $9 billion, exceeding the firm’s initial
estimate.  JPMorgan dropped to $35.77 as of 8:44 a.m. from the $36.78
close in New York yesterday, and reached $34.50 earlier today.  Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said on May 10 the bank
lost more than $2 billion on bets in credit markets taken by its
chief investment office in London and that the loss could
increase by as much as $1 billion this quarter. Dimon, 56, has
said JPMorgan doesn’t want to “do anything stupid” by
unwinding the trades too quickly, and he hopes that by the end
of the year the holdings will no longer have a significant
impact on results.  The firm’s losses have increased in recent weeks as
JPMorgan sought to exit its holdings, the New York Times
reported, citing unidentified former traders and executives at
the bank. The company has already closed out more than half of
its positions, the newspaper said.  “We are now in the realms of speculation in terms of the
sheer scale,” said  Christopher Wheeler , a London-based analyst
at Mediobanca SpA, who has a neutral recommendation on JPMorgan
shares. “The final loss will be offset by a number of items
including a debt-valuation adjustment gain and gains on the sale
of some of their Treasury securities. However, the larger the
number, the more difficult it is to reduce the impact.”  Sorkin Estimates  Andrew Ross Sorkin , editor of the New York Times DealBook
and a host of CNBC’s Squawk Box program, said on CNBC today that
the losses would be in the range of $4 billion to $6 billion,
citing sources he didn’t identify.  Dimon told lawmakers this month the company would be
“solidly profitable” when it reports second-quarter earnings
on July 13. Although the trading loss had grown to $2 billion
for the quarter when the bank disclosed it in May, the net loss
for the CIO division at that time was $800 million. Dimon said
JPMorgan had $8 billion in gains in another trading portfolio
within the CIO and had used $1 billion of that to offset the
loss on the credit derivatives portfolio in London.  The New York Times said JPMorgan may be able to get out of
the money-losing holdings by the end of this year, faster than
previous estimates. That would mean the company could earn $22
billion in 2013, “more money than any other bank in the
world,”  Richard Bove , an analyst at Rochdale Securities LLC in
Lutz, Florida, said today in an interview with  Tom Keene  on
Bloomberg Radio and Television’s “ Bloomberg Surveillance .”  ‘Terrible Mistake’  “If this company has got earnings power in the $22 billion
range, how bad can it be?” Bove said. “To assume that this
one-time loss or this one-time event should change all theories
or concepts about JPMorgan or about big banks would be a
terrible mistake.”  JPMorgan is perceived to be the second-most creditworthy of
the six biggest U.S. banks, according to credit-default swap
prices compiled by Bloomberg. The cost of the contracts, which
protect investors against default on JPMorgan’s debt, is less
than any of those lenders except for San Francisco-based  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the data show.  Credit-default swaps on JPMorgan eased to 139.3 basis
points today, from 172.1 basis points on June 12, the data show.  That compares with the average of contracts on JPMorgan,
Wells Fargo,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  of 237.9 basis points
through yesterday, the data show. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  Joe Evangelisti , a spokesman for JPMorgan in New York,
declined to comment on the New York Times story.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  