-- Kansas City Fed’s Manufacturing Survey for June (Text)
-- B y   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-06-28T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/kansas-city-fed-s-manufacturing-survey-for-june-text-.html
Following is the text from the
Kansas City Fed’s Manufacturing Survey.  Growth in Tenth District manufacturing activity slowed in June,
and expectations eased as producers grew more uncertain. Many
respondents reported concerns about economic conditions in
 Europe , though only a few noted sizeable direct negative
impacts. Price indexes fell, but most remained above zero,
indicating continued increases but at a slower rate. The month-
over-month composite index was 3 in June, down from 9 in May and
equal to 3 in April. The composite index is an average of the
production, new orders, employment, supplier delivery time, and
raw materials inventory indexes. Manufacturing growth decreased
in most durable and nondurable goods-producing plants, with the
exception of food and aircraft production, which increased
somewhat. Most other month-over-month indexes also fell in June.  The production index eased from 17 to 12, and the new orders
index fell back into negative territory after rising slightly
last month. Order backlogs continued to ease. The employment
index moved lower but remained positive, while the new orders
for exports index decreased. The raw materials inventory index
rose from 1 to 5, while the finished goods inventory index
declined. The majority of year-over-year factory indexes posted
levels similar to last month. The composite year-over-year index
eased from 27 to 24, while the new orders and shipments indexes
were unchanged. The production index slipped from 38 to 32, and
the employment index also edged slightly lower. The capital
expenditures index was steady at a fairly solid level, while
both inventory indexes decreased somewhat. Future factory
indexes fell after rising solidly last month, but generally
remained moderately positive.  The future composite index dropped from 17 to 8, and the future
production, shipments, and employment indexes also decreased
considerably. The future new orders and order backlog indexes
posted their lowest levels since May of 2009, but more firms
expected increases in orders than decreases. The future capital
spending index moved slightly lower from 19 to 17, and the
future new orders for exports index also fell marginally. The
future raw materials inventory index declined from 0 to -11, and
the future finished goods inventory index eased slightly. Price
indexes moderated for the second straight month, including an
actual decline in monthly selling prices. The month-over-month
finished goods price index dropped from 0 to -4, its lowest
level since mid-2010, and the raw materials price index also
decreased. The year-over-year raw materials price index edged
lower, and the finished goods price index posted an 18-month
low. The future raw materials price index fell from 48 to 40,
and the future finished goods price index eased after rising
last month, indicating fewer firms plan to pass recent cost
increases through to customers. 