-- Katrina Comeback Makes New Orleans Fastest-Growing City
-- B y   F r a n k   B a s s
-- 2012-06-28T04:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/katrina-comeback-makes-new-orleans-fastest-growing-city.html
New Orleans , in danger seven years
ago of being reduced to a “Sliver by the River,” grew faster
than any other major U.S. city in the 15 months after the 2010
decennial headcount, the U.S. Census Bureau announced today.  Ravaged in 2005 by hurricanes Katrina and Rita, the city
grew 4.9 percent from April 2010 to July 2011, increasing its
population to 360,740. In the year after the hurricanes, the
city’s population fell to 223,388 from its pre-storm tally of
452,170, the Census Bureau estimated.  The magnitude of population loss after Katrina overwhelmed
New Orleans’ protective levees means the city has needed to add
relatively few people to rank among the fastest-growing places
in the nation since 2007. It also has been aided by billions in
federal reconstruction dollars and a healthy  tourism industry .  “You’re getting a lot of people coming home,”  Douglas Brinkley , a Rice University historian and the author of “ The
Great Deluge ,” about the disaster, said in a telephone
interview. “It’s a beehive of activity.”  The city, with its classic Creole cuisine and boisterous
French Quarter, long has been a magnet for vacationers and
conventions. A study released in March by the University of New
Orleans found that 8.75 million tourists spent $5.5 billion last
year, a record.  Last Supper  When the iconic  Commander’s Palace  reopened 13 months after
the storms, it received a steady stream of customers wanting to
have their last meal at the restaurant before moving, said co-
owner Ti Adelaide Martin. These days, it’s serving more people
having their first meal.  “It was really, really depressing,” Martin said. “Now,
it’s just the opposite.”  New Orleans’ growth rate outpaced six Texas locations among
the fastest-rising major U.S. cities:  Round Rock , Austin and the
Dallas suburbs of Plano, McKinney, Frisco and Denton. Denver,
Cary,  North Carolina , and Raleigh rounded out the top 10.  New
York  added the most people, increasing its population by 69,777
for a total estimated population of 8,244,910.  New Orleans, known as the Big Easy, has had its share of
problems during the last year. The city’s highest-in-the-nation
murder rate spurred Mayor Mitch Landrieu to ask the federal
government last month for more help to fight crime. Advance
Publications Inc., the owner of the city’s newspaper, laid off
almost half the newsroom at the New Orleans  Times-Picayune  and
announced plans to convert to a primarily digital product.  Unemployment Falling  Even so, the local economy is doing well, said Allison
Plyer, chief demographer at the  Greater New Orleans Community
Data Center , a nonprofit research firm that collects social,
economic and demographic figures. The  unemployment rate  in
Orleans Parish was 7.2 percent in May, according to the Bureau
of Labor Statistics, a full point below the national average.  “The  population growth  is strongly related to job
growth,” Plyer said in a telephone interview. “The New Orleans
area really weathered the recession very well.”  Much of the job growth has come from public works. More
than 1,800 people died in August 2005 when the city’s poorly
designed, 350-mile system of levees failed as Katrina roared
ashore. Since then, the federal government has spent almost $20
billion on contracts, with much of that going to rebuild the
dikes.  Construction Cash  Construction and engineering firms made up five of the 10
contractors receiving the most federal dollars during the 2011
budget year, according to data compiled by  Bloomberg .  The largest amount last year was a $675 million contract
awarded to CBY Design Builders. The company, a joint venture of
Brasfield & Gorrie LLC, CDM Constructors Inc. and W.G. Yates and
Sons Construction Co., won the bidding to install pumps in the
city’s canal system.  The contract was scrapped after an investigation by the
Government Accountability Office found the U.S.  Army Corps  of
Engineers spent less than five minutes discussing whether the
company’s design would hold up to a major storm. A federal court
last month cleared the way for another round of bidding on the
project. The Corps now estimates that temporary pumps --
designed to protect the city beyond the high ground known as the
Sliver by the River -- won’t be replaced before the middle of
2016.  Work continues elsewhere. The Tampa-based construction firm
of Clark/McCarthy Healthcare Partners received $410.9 million
during the 2011 budget year to begin work on the headquarters
for a new U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs health center in
the historic Pan-American Life Insurance Co. building northwest
of downtown. The new center, with a $995 million price tag, is
expected to open in 2014.  Middle-Class Jobs  “It’s now a place where there are a lot of middle-class
jobs,” Brinkley said. “The reconstruction projects are on a
scale of the Saint Lawrence Seaway or Hoover Dam. The question
is, when will the money run out?”  For now, the local economy has been boosted by tourism
efforts, including extra money from London-based  BP Plc (BP/) , which
contributed $3.8 million for marketing funds to cities affected
by the April 2010 Deepwater Horizon disaster, the worst offshore
 oil spill  in U.S. history.  Tourism also has benefited from a number of New Orleans
restaurants and hotels that are attracting visitors and
residents.  “If you’d asked me, even two-and-a-half-years ago, if we’d
reach pre-Katrina levels before I became an old lady, I’d have
told you that it would never happen,” said Martin, the co-owner
of Commander’s Palace. “But it’s been a booming two years, and
we’re back there now.  “It’s exhilarating.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Frank Bass  in New York at 
fbass1@bloomberg.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts in Chicago at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net  