-- Kenzo Aiming to get Hip Again under New Leadership
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2012-06-28T23:00:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/kenzo-aiming-to-get-hip-again-under-new-leadership.html
For years, Mylene Kerjean watched
with dismay as fashion house Kenzo slipped from cutting edge to
what she called “too loud, too unwearable, not relevant.” Then
last month, the mesh-print dresses in a Kenzo shop in Paris
caught her eye.  “They were more modern and correspond to clothing that I
want to wear now,” said Kerjean, 33, who works in the beauty
industry. The 430-euro ($534) dresses, she said, had “that
extra twist that Kenzo is known for.”  Kenzo can thank Humberto Leon and Carol Lim for its ride
from has-been to must-have for shoppers like Kerjean. The
brand’s owner, LMVH  Louis Vuitton  Moet Hennessy SA, last year
hired the pair as creative directors to rejuvenate Kenzo. The
brand had become better known for its Flower perfume--sold in a
transparent bottle with a red poppy--than the ethnic print
mishmashs pioneered by founder Kenzo Takada, who  left  in 1999.  Leon and Lim were asked to position the Parisian fashion
house for an ”ambitious,” expansion, Pierre-Yves Roussel, head
of LVMH’s fashion division, said when they were hired.  The duo, who will show their second men’s collection in
Paris tomorrow, have splashed the same mesh print that caught
Kerjean’s eye -- think painted chicken wire -- over accessories
like iPad covers. And they have formed partnerships with hipster
brands to attract a younger audience.  Now, Kenzo is re-entering the  U.S. market  after abandoning
it for almost a decade. The brand, with 149 outlets in more than
20 countries, this year is adding shop-in-shop boutiques in
department stores Barneys, Nordstrom and  Saks Fifth Avenue .  Curators of Cool  Leon and Lim developed a reputation as curators of cool at
 Opening Ceremony , a  New York  retailer they founded in 2002. At
the small chain--which they still run--the pair introduced
Americans to little-known brands such as Havaianas, the
Brazilian flip-flops. After picking up devotees such as “Boys
Don’t Cry” actress Chloe Sevigny, the pair are attracting a new
generation of hipsters to Kenzo with everyday items such as 90-
euro sneakers (a collaboration with  Vans Inc. (VFC) ) and 40-euro
baseball caps made in conjunction with New Era.  The goal is to steer Kenzo’s image into the territory
occupied by  Marc Jacobs , an LVMH brand that courts younger
customers with lower prices. That will help Kenzo evoke what
founder Takada called the brand’s “anti-couture” spirit. Key
to the strategy is refocusing prices and products so consumers
can better understand what Kenzo stands for. Before, Kenzo sold
dresses for as much as 4,000 euros, now most cost between 300
euros and 600 euros.  LVMH did not make Leon, Lim, or Kenzo Chief Executive
Officer Eric Marechalle available for this story.  Affordable Luxury  More affordable prices, to which the luxury industry owes
much of its growth over the past five years, allow brands to
target younger and less wealthy clients that they hope will
migrate to higher-value goods over time, said Fflur Roberts,
global head of luxury research at Euromonitor International.  That’s “probably a better place to start” if you’re
rebooting a brand in the current economic climate, she said.  Spending on personal  luxury goods  will slow this year with
growth reaching between 6 percent and 7 percent, or about half
2011’s rate, according to Bain & Co. Kenzo has annual sales of
about 150 million euros and is profitable, estimates  brokerage 
CA Cheuvreux in Paris. LVMH doesn’t disclose revenue by brand.  Strategic Review  The revival validates LVMH Chief Executive Officer  Bernard Arnault ’s decision to grant the Kenzo brand a stay of execution.
In 2010, LVMH,  the world’s biggest luxury company  with labels
such as Donna Karen and Celine, conducted a review of Kenzo and
other brands as analysts urged the company to focus on flagship
Louis Vuitton and other key businesses like alcohol, people
familiar with the matter said.  Louis Vuitton accounts for 75 percent of sales and 90
percent of  profit  at LVMH’s fashion and leather division,
according to  Barclays Capital . Kenzo, by contrast, represents
less than 2 percent of the division’s sales, according to CA
Cheuvreux. LVMH posted sales in the first quarter that beat
analysts’  estimates  in defiance of the slowdown in the European
economy.  ‘Jungle Jap’  Kenzo Takada was declared the next big thing in boutique
fashion by Vogue in the 1970s as designs like smocked tent
dresses and oversized dungarees at his boutique, called Jungle
Jap, caught critics’ eyes.  Since Takada’s departure six years after LVMH bought the
label, Kenzo lost its appeal because it didn’t move with the
times, said Jane Kellock, acting managing editor of product and
design at consultant Stylus in  London .  “It was resting on its laurels and didn’t have any
resonance” and at times even looked more suited to costume
parties than daily life, she said.  Continual reinvention and redefining products “is the
nature of fashion,” Kellock said. “If you’re not doing that,
then you’re not interesting.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor on this story:
Celeste Perri in Amsterdam at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  