-- Kerviel Apologizes to SocGen Employers at Close of Appeal
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2012-06-28T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/kerviel-apologizes-to-socgen-employers-at-close-of-appeal.html
Jerome Kerviel apologized to  Societe
Generale SA (GLE)  employees and said he “never lied” during the
investigation into the bank’s 4.9 billion-euro ($6.1 billion)
trading loss, as his lawyers asked a Paris court to clear him of
any wrongdoing on the final day of his hearing.  Kerviel, 35, is fighting a 2010 guilty verdict, for which
he was sentenced to three years in prison and ordered to repay
the bank for its losses. Prosecutors this week asked for the
maximum five years, a tougher recommendation than the lower
court prosecution requested.  “At no point did I ever lie to the justice system,”
Kerviel said, standing to speak yesterday after about five hours
of closing statements by his lawyers. He asked for the
“forgiveness” of the Societe Generale employees, adding “they
have suffered in the system in which I took part.”  The court is to issue its decision Oct. 24. Kerviel and his
lawyers didn’t back down from the aggressive strategy they’ve
pursued in their appeal. Defense attorneys conceded their client
admitted to exceeding trading limits, falsifying documents and
lying to people who questioned him about his bets and faked
hedges he created to mask the losses. They argued that none of
the actions rose to the level of a crime in  France .  Kerviel said throughout the proceeding that his superiors
knew what he was doing and advanced a theory that the bank
allowed him to take such risks in order to use him as a
scapegoat and distract from its losses on the U.S. subprime
mortgage market.  ‘Get the Benefit’  “ Jerome Kerviel  must get the benefit of the doubt, he must
be cleared,” said Julien Dami Le Coz, one of his lawyers. He
focused on the technicalities of the law, arguing that since
there weren’t individual limits on traders, there was no abuse
of trust. The lawyer also argued that the falsified documents
couldn’t count as crimes under French law because the amounts
Kerviel was claiming -- his bets had risen to 50 billion euros
by the time the bank discovered them -- “couldn’t fool” anyone.  If Kerviel should be condemned again, his lead lawyer,
David Koubbi, called for a sentence “he could survive.”  Koubbi frequently clashed with Mireille Filippini, who led
the panel of three judges overseeing the appeal. Yesterday, he
continued to criticize the court, saying “nothing has been
respected in this case,” and calling the lower court’s ruling
“absurd.”  Kerviel has changed legal teams at least four times since
the bank loss was announced Jan. 24, 2008. The current team,
which took over about three months before the hearings began
June 4, “decided to take on the defense fully, to let nothing
slip by, to respond blow for blow,” co-counsel Benoit Pruvost
said.  ‘In the Gallery’  Yesterday’s hearing was marked as much for what occurred in
the gallery as for the arguments before the judges. Koubbi, who
began using a cane last week to help with his back, arrived with
a black eye from a fight he got into with a man on a scooter
last night during a traffic jam,  Agence France-Presse  said,
citing Koubbi.  Kerviel left the courtroom three times and Filippini called
a 20-minute recess at one point as he rushed out with Pruvost
from the un-air-conditioned courtroom. Temperatures in Paris
yesterday reached 30 degrees Celsius (86 degrees Fahrenheit).  Kerviel mopped his brow often during the hearing and
splashed water on his face. He was also attended to by Tristane
Banon, who sat in the audience. Koubbi gained renown last year
when he represented Banon, a French writer who accused former
International Monetary Fund chief  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  of
attempted rape.  The Paris prosecutor dropped the case, saying it lacked
evidence, though Koubbi claimed victory when the prosecutors
said they wouldn’t pursue sexual assault claims due to the
statute of limitations.  Koubbi compared the two cases, saying they are
“systematically the same,” comparing Kerviel and Banon as two
people fighting a system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at   hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  