-- Kirkland, Dorsey, Wachtell, Gardere: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-06-28T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/kirkland-dorsey-wachtell-gardere-business-of-law.html
Kirkland & Ellis LLP represented
private-equity firms MidOcean Partners and Crestview Partners,
which agreed to sell the Puerto Rican cable provider OneLink
Communications to  Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA)  and investment funds tied
to Searchlight Capital Partners LP for $585.3 million.  Dorsey & Whitney LLP represented Liberty Global, and
Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz represented Searchlight Capital.  The Kirkland team was led by two  Washington  corporate
partners, Mark Director and Alexander Fine. The Dorsey partners
included Paul Thompson, Denver, mergers and acquisitions; Chris
Bercaw,  Minneapolis , corporate; and John Hollinrake,  Seattle ,
tax. Wachtell’s lawyers were led by  Steve Cohen , a  New York 
corporate partner. Ben Roth, another New York corporate partner,
also worked on the deal.  OneLink, the largest provider of  cable television  and high-
speed data services in Puerto Rico, was purchased by MidOcean
and Crestview in 2005 from Adelphia Communications, according to
a statement yesterday. Under the ownership of the private-equity
firms, the cable company upgraded its systems, added a high-
speed Internet offering and rolled out telephone services.  The deal, which is expected to close in the fourth quarter,
bolsters Liberty Global’s cable holdings. The Englewood,
Colorado-based company already has operations in 13 countries
connecting 20 million households, according to its website.  Liberty currently operates the cable brands UPC,
Unitymedia, Kabel BW, Telenet and VTR.  BP Sells Wyoming Gas Assets to Linn Energy for $1.03 Billion  BP Plc (BP/) , the energy producer  disposing of assets to help
pay for the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill, agreed to sell its
stake in  Wyoming  natural-gas fields to  Linn Energy LLC (LINE)  for $1.03
billion.  Gardere Wynne Sewell LLP advised BP while Baker Botts LLP
advised Linn.  The Gardere deal team representing BP was led by Doug Eyberg, energy partner. Tim Spear, energy partner, assisted
along with a number of associates.  The Baker Botts team included tax partners Michael Bresson
and Matt Larsen. Paul Cuomo, a litigation and antitrust partner
also worked on the deal.  The deal, which includes the Jonah and Pinedale operations,
brings BP’s divestitures to about $24 billion since the start of
2010, with the target remaining at $38 billion by the end of
next year, the London-based company said June 25 in a statement.  “This sale will allow us to realize the value of the
mature Jonah assets and reinvest in higher growth opportunities
in BP’s North America gas business and elsewhere,” BP Chief
Executive Officer Bob Dudley said in a statement.  BP has set aside about $37 billion to pay for the  oil spill 
from its Macondo well, the worst in U.S. history. The company
said June 1 that it plans to sell its half of TNK-BP, the
Russian venture that accounts for about a quarter of the
company’s global output. It also plans to sell two refineries in
the U.S. by the end of the year.  For Linn, which increased production more than fourfold in
the past five years, the Wyoming properties are expected to add
the equivalent of 145 million cubic feet a day of gas
production, the company said in a separate statement. The field
holds 73 percent gas, 23 percent natural gas liquids and 4
percent oil.  “This acquisition provides Linn with a significant
operated position in the Green River Basin of Wyoming and the
opportunity to add employees to our staff who have hands-on
experience with operations in the Jonah Field,” said Linn
Chairman Mark Ellis.  Linn, based in Houston, has hedged 100 percent of the
expected production from the field for approximately six years
through 2017. It expects the purchase to close by July 31 and
plans to finance the acquisition with proceeds from borrowings
under its revolving credit facility, it said yesterday.  Separately, Linn filed with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission June 25 seeking to sell shares in a new
company that will hold its stock and help it raise money for
acquisitions. The new entity, Linn Co LLC, will be taxed as a
corporation, giving it access to funds from institutional
investors who currently don’t buy Linn Energy because of its
partnership status. Baker Botts partners Kelly Rose and Michael
Bresson handled that matter, the firm said.  Firm News  Edwards Wildman Adds Two Partners to Private Equity Leadership  Edwards Wildman Palmer LLP named Paul Mahoney and Alan Roth
co-chairmen of the private equity and  venture capital  practice
group. They join James Barrett in Boston in leading the group.  Roth’s practice is focused in the areas of venture capital
and private equity representation, including SBIC licensing,
investment and compliance, fund formation, corporate
acquisitions, and representation of closely held corporations
and individuals, the firm said. He counsels venture capitalists
and private equity professionals on fund formation including
becoming licensed as small business investment companies,
encompassing both the pre-licensing and post-licensing stages of
the process.  Mahoney advises private equity firms in their investment
activities, with an emphasis on middle market leveraged
acquisitions. Mahoney typically advises the portfolio company on
the strategic priorities, including add-on acquisitions and
dispositions, structuring management equity and other
incentives, debt and equity recapitalizations and
restructurings, and the company’s ultimate sale to a strategic
player or financial acquirer, according to the firm.  Edwards Wildman closed 307 private equity and venture
capital deals in 2011. The firm has 625 attorneys in 14 offices
in the U.S., U.K. and  Asia .  Moves  Music Industry Lawyer Joins Reed Smith in New York  Reed Smith  LLP announced that transactional lawyer Edward
H. Shapiro joined the firm’s New York office as a partner in the
music industry practice. Shapiro joins from boutique
entertainment law firm Grubman Indursky Shire & Meiselas PC, the
firm said.  “Reed Smith lawyers have worked across the table from Ed
for many years on numerous music transactions and have had a
front row view of his skill and dedication in representing his
clients,” Jordan Siev, the managing partner of Reed Smith’s New
York office said in a statement. “He represents many top
individual performers and musical groups, and has become one of
the leading attorneys in the hot electronic dance music (EDM)
area.”  Reed Smith has almost 1,700 lawyers in 23 offices
throughout the U.S.,  Europe , Asia and the Middle East.  Mckenna Long Adds IP Litigator Robert Nissen in Washington  Robert Nissen, a litigator, has joined McKenna Long &
Aldridge LLP as a partner in its intellectual-property and
technology practice in Washington.  Prior to joining MLA, Nissen was the managing partner at
his firm, Nissen & Associates, where he practiced patent,
trademark and copyright law, the firm said.  MLA’s intellectual-property and technology practice is
composed of more than 50 attorneys, patent litigators and patent
agents. MLA’s merged with Luce, Forward, Hamilton & Scripps LLP
in March 2012  MLA has more than 575 attorneys and public policy advisers
in 13 offices in the U.S. and Europe.  News  NFL Players Settle Malpractice Suit with McKool Smith  McKool Smith  PC is settling a malpractice suit brought by
retired members of the  National Football League  who claimed that
$28 million awarded to them should have been higher, the
Recorder newspaper said.  The former players claimed they were entitled to a share in
royalties from Electronic Arts Inc. and other companies using
names and images of football players, even if their own images
weren’t used. The players union had argued that only active
players were covered by the agreements  U.S. District Judge William Alsup, who awarded the players
$28 million before an appeal and settlement reduced it to $26
million, criticized the firms representing the players,
including Manatt Phelps & Phillips LLP, for not submitting
evidence that could have increased the award, the Recorder said.  The newspaper said a Manatt attorney didn’t respond to
questions about whether that firm is in settlement talks. A
Bloomberg News call seeking comment wasn’t returned.  McKool Smith denied wrongdoing, and details of the
settlement weren’t made public, according to the Recorder.  The case is Adderley v. National Football League Players
Association, 07-943, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
 California  ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York,
at   eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 