-- Kosovo Border Incident Leaves Dozens Injured, Minister Says
-- B y   B e k i m   G r e i c e v c i   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2012-06-28T18:26:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/kosovo-border-confrontation-leaves-dozens-injured-minister-says.html
Thirty-two  Kosovo  policemen and 13
Serbs were injured at a border crossing between  Serbia  and
Kosovo when a group of visiting Serbs was denied entry into the
breakaway province.  None of the policemen was seriously injured, Kosovo’s
Interior Minister Bajram Rexhepi said in Parliament today. Ten
out of 13 injured Serbs were hospitalized with gunshot wounds in
Prokuplje in central Serbia, the Serbian state-run broadcaster
 Radio Televizija Srbije  reported, citing the head of surgery,
Zoran Vuckovic.  The violence at Merdare, 40 kilometers (25 miles) northeast
of the capital Pristina, began when a bus carrying the Serbian
group, which earlier today entered Kosovo, was escorted out of
the former Serbian province, now ruled by an ethnic Albanian
government. The group wanted to attend a ceremony marking St.
Vitus day, an anniversary of Serbia’s 1389 battle against
Ottoman Turks that took place in the disputed territory.  “They were aggressive” Fisnik Rexhepi, the political
adviser of the Kosovo Interior Minister said in a phone
interview, referring to the Serb visitors. “In order to
maintain security we deported them through the Merdare border
point.”  Rocks, Firebombs  Another 16 Serbs, mostly schoolchildren, were injured when
assailants hurled rocks and firebombs at their bus passing
through Pristina after the ceremony, Beta  news agency  reported,
citing eyewitnesses and hospital sources. Several hundred Serbs,
mostly from other parts of Kosovo, had gathered to mark the
anniversary at the  site  of the historic battle, just outside the
city.  Improving relations with the breakaway province is a
condition for Serbia in its effort to join the European Union.
Around 130,000 Serbs live among Kosovo’s mostly ethnic Albanian
population of 2 million.  Serbia lost control over Kosovo in 1999 when NATO bombing
forced it to halt its campaign against Kosovo’s pro-independence
ethnic Albanians and hand over control to the alliance. Kosovo’s
ethnic Albanians declared independence in 2008, with support and
recognition from the U.S. and its West European allies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net ;
Bekim Greicevci in Pristina at 
 bgreicevci@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  