-- N.J. Democrats Say Agreement Reached on College Overhaul
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-06-28T19:34:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/n-j-democrats-say-agreement-reached-on-college-overhaul.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie ,
legislative leaders and the board of  Rutgers University  reached
consensus on a revised plan to restructure the state’s higher-
education system, two Democratic senators said.  The agreement calls for Rutgers, the state’s largest
university, to take over the University of Medicine and
Dentistry of New Jersey, the state-run medical school. It
doesn’t include Christie’s plan to fold Rutgers’s Camden campus
into Rowan University to create a large research institution in
southern New Jersey.  Christie, a first-term Republican, supports the compromise,
Democratic Senators Joseph Vitale of Woodbridge and Donald Norcross in Camden said today at a press conference in Trenton.
Vitale leads the Senate Health Committee. Norcross is brother of
George E. Norcross, a Democratic party leader in southern  New
Jersey  and chairman of Cooper Hospital in Camden, who has pushed
for a university overhaul in his region.  Christie, 49, has been urging lawmakers to approve a
university reorganization by July 1, saying it would help make
New Jersey a national leader in medical education and research.  The merger involving Rowan had encountered opposition from
staff at Rutgers, who said it was being proposed for political
reasons and would have weakened the school’s brand recognition.
In March, a group of students and faculty presented lawmakers
with 11,000 signatures opposing the move.  Delay Sought  Last week, at least 10 Democratic lawmakers said they might
withhold support for the state budget unless Assembly Speaker
Sheila Oliver agreed to delay voting on the university mergers.
They later relented; all Democrats voted on June 25 in favor of
a $31.7 billion spending plan for the fiscal year that begins
July 1.  Christie hasn’t yet signed the budget. He has said
Democrats’ spending plan holds “tax relief hostage” because it
would delay a  tax cut  until midway through the fiscal year, to
see if revenue growth meets the governor’s targets.  Michael Drewniak , a spokesman for the governor, said the
university legislation involved “moving pieces” and declined
to comment in it until after the Senate and Assembly votes,
which are scheduled for later today.  Under the new agreement, Rutgers-Camden and Rowan will
cooperate on their health-sciences curriculum, while maintaining
separate campuses and trustees, Vitale said.  The Rutgers Board of Governors adopted a resolution today
that supports the plan “in general.” The school agreed to an
effective date of July 1, 2013, for the legislation, which would
allow time to study the merger before voting on it, according to
an e-mailed statement from Greg Trevor, a Rutgers spokesman.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  