-- Nabucco West Selected as Potentaial Route for Azeri Gas
-- B y   Z u l f u g a r   A g a y e v   a n d   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2012-06-28T13:43:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/nabucco-west-selected-as-potentaial-route-for-azeri-gas.html
BP Plc (BP/)  and its partners in the Shah
Deniz gas field in the  Caspian Sea  selected the Nabucco West
pipeline as a potential export route to  Europe , with a final
decision due next year.  “The greater maturity of Nabucco West gave the consortium
confidence that this project could be developed and delivered on
the same timeline” as stage two of Shah Deniz,  State Oil Co. (ATPG)  of
 Azerbaijan  said on its  website  today.  Nabucco West, a 1,300-kilometer (810-mile) link backed by
the European Union, will now compete with the Trans-Adriatic
Pipeline, known as TAP, for rights to export gas from the Shah
Deniz field, which may hold 1.2 trillion cubic meters of the
fuel in Azerbaijan’s part of the Caspian Sea.  The Shah Deniz partners, which include  Statoil ASA (STL)  and
 Total SA (FP) , aim to make the final choice before an  investment
decision  on expanding the field is due in mid-2013. First gas
exports are seen for late 2017. Earlier this year, the group
eliminated the Interconnector Turkey-Greece-Italy, or ITGI, as a
potential transport link, and today chose Nabucco over the BP-
led South East Europe Pipeline project, known as SEEP.  ‘100 Deaths’  “Nabucco had the advantage over SEEP that they had all the
feasibility studies and legal requirements years ago,” said
Philipp Chladek, an oil and gas industry analyst at Bloomberg
Industries in  London . “The question that now arises is whether
any company of the Shah Deniz consortium will enter the Nabucco
consortium or vice-versa, or if this is not desired out of an
‘unbundling’ perspective.”  Nabucco has faced repeated delays in the past eight years
after struggling to secure fuel sources amid competition.  “This decision is an important milestone for the Nabucco
project and a major step towards the final investment
decision,” Nabucco Managing Director Reinhard Mitschek said in
a separate statement today.  The pipe “will be pronounced dead 100 times, but it will
be alive again 101 times,” Gerhard Roiss, chief executive
officer of  OMV AG (OMV) , which is one of the six companies backing
Nabucco, said in April.  Diversify Supplies  Nabucco West would transport gas from the Turkey-Bulgaria
border to the Baumgarten gas hub in  Austria  via Bulgaria,
Romania and  Hungary . It’s a shorter version of a pipeline that
initially would also have crossed Turkey. Turkey and Azerbaijan
yesterday signed a deal to build the $7 billion Trans-Anatolia
Pipeline pipeline, known as Tanap, across Turkish territory.
Nabucco West would have an initial capacity of 10 billion cubic
meters a year and can be scaled up to 23 billion cubic meters if
there’s enough demand, according to the Nabucco statement.  The EU is seeking to diversify supplies away from Russia,
which provides a quarter of its natural gas. Russian gas for
Europe piped through Ukraine has been disrupted by disputes
between the two countries.  Russia also has been keen to bypass Ukraine and will start
construction on the OAO Gazprom-led South Stream pipeline at the
end of this year, with natural-gas flows to the EU potentially
starting as early as 2014.  Nabucco is a joint venture of Germany’s  RWE AG (RWE) , Vienna-
based OMV,  Mol Nyrt. (MOL)  of Hungary, Bulgargaz EAD, Romania’s
Transgaz SA and Istanbul-based Boru Hatlari ile Petrol Tasima
AS. TAP is planned by EGL AG, Statoil and EON Ruhrgas AG.  Shah Deniz is being developed by Azerbaijan’s Socar, OAO
Lukoil, Naftiran Intertrade Co. and Turkiye Petrolleri AO, as
well as BP, Statoil and Total.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zulfugar Agayev in Baku at 
 zagayev@bloomberg.net ,
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  