-- National Bank of Greece Changes Management, Tourkolias CEO
-- B y   C h r i s t o s   Z i o t i s   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 2012-06-28T18:04:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/national-bank-of-greece-changes-management-tourkolias-ceo-1-.html
National Bank of Greece SA ’s board
of directors appointed Alexandros Tourkolias as chief executive
officer of the country’s biggest lender after Apostolos Tamvakakis submitted his resignation today.  Giorgios Zanias, who is at a European Union summit in
Brussels, will become chairman as soon as he completes his work
as caretaker finance minister, according to an e-mailed
statement from the Athens-based bank today. Tourkolias will fill
the chairman post until Zanias completes his duties.  Tamvakakis’s resignation comes after Chief Financial
Officer Babis Mazarakis stepped down yesterday. Vassilios Rapanos, who was named finance minister in the government of
Prime Minister Antonis Samaras and resigned this week after
being hospitalized on June 22, also stepped down as chairman of
National Bank yesterday, citing health reasons.  Management changes at state-controlled or influenced
companies are common after a change in government in  Greece .
State-controlled pension funds owned 12 percent of National Bank
at the end of last year, according to its  website . Samaras
formed a three-party coalition after his New Democracy party
placed first in  June 17  elections.  Deputy Chief Executive Officer Leonidas Theoklitos also
resigned, the bank said. International Operations Manager  Petros Christodoulou , who quit as Greece’s Public Debt Management
Agency chief after completing the biggest debt restructuring in
history, will be promoted to deputy CEO, National Bank said.  Tourkolias was general manager for corporate and investment
banking from 2004 to 2010, when he became deputy CEO. Previously
he worked at  Bank of America  Corp. and  Bank of Nova Scotia .  Zanias became has been caretaker finance minister since an
inconclusive national election on May 6 meant another was needed
six weeks later. As a finance ministry adviser from 2009, he was
involved in negotiating the terms of Greece’s bailout programs
from the EU and International Monetary Fund.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christos Ziotis in Athens at 
 cziotis@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maria Petrakis at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net  