-- NBA Draft’s Intrigue Begins After Hornets Select Anthony Davis
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-06-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/nba-draft-s-intrigue-begins-after-hornets-select-anthony-davis.html
The intrigue won’t start until after
the top pick has left the stage in tonight’s National Basketball
Association Draft.  Anthony Davis , the 19-year-old forward who led the
 University of Kentucky  to the national championship in April,
will be the first pick by the  New Orleans Hornets  at the
Prudential Center in  Newark , New Jersey, according to draft
analysts.  The  Charlotte Bobcats  are considering trading the No. 2
pick, and in a draft with only one “sure-fire star,” ESPN
college basketball analyst Jay Bilas said, what happens once
Davis shakes Commissioner  David Stern ’s hand can’t be predicted.  “After that, there are players with question marks but a
lot of talent,” Bilas said this week in a conference call. “I
don’t know what  Charlotte ’s going to do with the two pick,
whether they keep it or try to trade down and get some
additional assets, because they need everything. You have to be
prepared for just about every scenario.”  Trading down would allow the team to tap into the uncommon
depth of this year’s draft, according to Bilas. The prospect of
grabbing future starters later has teams like the  Houston
Rockets , and possibly the Bobcats, collecting mid-round picks,
where value might be higher than in previous drafts.  Davis, the Associated Press College Basketball Player of
the Year, averaged 14.2 points, 10.4 rebounds and 4.7 blocks
with Kentucky this season. He was also the  Southeastern
Conference ’s Player, Freshman and Defensive Player of the Year.  Financial Adviser  Davis, who has hired a financial adviser to help manage his
money, said in an interview with Bloomberg Radio’s “Taking
Stock” that he won’t feel added pressure if selected first. He
will make $4.3 million next season as the first pick, according
to the league’s labor agreement.  “I’m about to play against some of the guys I looked up to
and idolized my whole life,” Davis said. “But at the same time,
it’s now your job. You have to go out there, play your
hardest.”  The 6-foot-10 forward’s late growth -- he was a 6-foot
shooting guard as a high school freshman -- gives him a unique
blend of inside skills and shooting touch, according to Kentucky
coach  John Calipari . Davis said he’s modeled his game after
 Boston Celtics  forward  Kevin Garnett , a nine-time member of the
NBA’s all-defensive first team.  “I don’t think there is an NBA decision-maker out there
that would take anybody but Anthony Davis No. 1,” Bilas said.  Kentucky’s all-underclassmen starting lineup -- freshmen
Davis, Michael Kidd-Gilchrist and Marquis Teague, and sophomores
 Terrence Jones  and Doron Lamb -- entered the draft in April
shortly after winning the National Collegiate Athletic
Association tournament. Senior Darius Miller is also in the pool
of available players.  Kentucky Six  Bilas said he expects Kentucky to become the first school
to have six players taken in one draft since the NBA moved to a
two-round format in 1989.  “I am proud to say that I was able to spend a year with
them,” Calipari said when the players announced their plans.
“Anyone that tells you that in one or two years you cannot
create a relationship and you are not going to have a bond, they
are crazy.”  Kidd-Gilchrist,  University of Florida  guard Bradley Beal
and  University of Kansas  forward Thomas Robinson headline the
list of players who could be picked directly after Davis.  The  New York Knicks  have the No. 48 pick; the Brooklyn Nets
have No. 57.  Another Rondo  The depth of the 2012 class makes it possible for a team to
find value later, as the Celtics did with  Rajon Rondo , the No.
21 pick in 2006, Bilas said. Rondo averaged 17.3 points and 11.9
assists during the 2012 playoffs, and his three All-Star
selections are one fewer than the combined total of the 20
players chosen before him.  “I’m not sure how much difference there is in the 10th
pick or the 20th pick,” Bilas said. “There is some difference,
but I’m not sure it’s that extreme in this draft.”  The Bobcats finished 7-59 in the lockout-shortened season,
the lowest winning percentage in NBA history, and lost a
franchise-record 23 consecutive games.  They’re not the only team possibly looking to capitalize on
the depth of this year’s class. The Rockets traded forward Chase Budinger to the  Minnesota Timberwolves  for the No. 18 pick, and
acquired the No. 12 selection and a trio of players from the
 Milwaukee Bucks  in exchange for the No. 14 pick and Samuel Dalembert. Houston, which has missed the playoffs for the past
three seasons, now hold the Nos. 12, 16 and 18 selections.  “I’m happy because we like 18, 20 guys deep in this
draft,” Houston coach Kevin McHale said this week. “So you
know you’re going to get a couple guys you like at our picks,
which is all you can ask for.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  