-- News Corp. Mulls Internal Candidates for New CEO Job
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-06-28T20:15:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/news-corp-mulls-internal-candidates-for-new-ceo-job.html
News Corp. (NWSA)  founder  Rupert Murdoch ,
who announced plans today to spin off the company’s publishing
division, is evaluating internal candidates for chief executive
officer of the business.  News Corp. has “world-class executives we’re looking at,”
Murdoch, CEO of News Corp., said in a phone interview. “We’ve
got plenty of time, and we’re in no hurry to make a decision.”  Murdoch’s remarks signal a preference for an inside manager
for the job, which would involve overseeing newspapers in the
U.S. and U.K., as well as publications and television stations
in  Australia . Top executives at the business include Dow Jones &
Co. Editor-in-Chief Robert Thomson and CEO Lex Fenwick, along
with Brian Murray, head of News Corp.’s HarperCollins book
division.  The new CEO will inherit assets including News Corp.’s
publishing unit, which saw profit drop by 32 percent from fiscal
2008 to 2011, according to Bloomberg data. It will also have a
clean balance sheet and internationally recognized brands, such
as the Wall Street Journal,  New York Post  and Times of  London . A
new leader will have to confront slowing growth, especially in
Australian newspapers, and a U.K. hacking scandal that has led
to the arrests of more than 50 people.  “It’ll be a tough job, but there are still some good
businesses,” said  Barton Crockett , an analyst with Lazard
Capital Markets in  New York .  Book Business  Book, education and marketing assets also will be part of
the publishing company, according to a statement today from News
Corp. Murdoch will be chairman of both companies and CEO of the
entertainment business when the deal is completed in about 12
months. The publishing unit will have no debt and “very large
reserves of cash,” Murdoch said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television.  The stock fell 1.4 percent to $21.99 at the close in New
York. The shares have gained 9.5 percent in the three days since
News Corp. announced it was considering a breakup.  Other candidates may include  Joel Klein , who recently
stepped down from his role overseeing the company’s internal
hacking probe to return to his duties as CEO of the company’s
fledgling education unit. He previously served as a Justice
Department lawyer and chancellor of  New York City ’s public
schools.  Tom Mockridge , head of the company’s U.K. publishing group,
is another possibility. He replaced Rebekah Brooks following the
scandal. Kim Williams, head of the company’s Australian unit,
may also be in the mix. News Corp. declined to comment on who
may be in contention.  Seeking Stability  The Australian business is already making cuts to cope with
slower growth.  “We’re going through a big reorganization,” Murdoch said
today in the Bloomberg interview. “We have not been specific
about how many people we’ll lose, but there will be loss in
numbers there.”  More reductions will probably be necessary worldwide, said
 Ken Doctor , an analyst with Burlingame, California-based  Outsell
Inc. , a research firm focused on the publishing industry.  “In order to stabilize it over the next two to three
years, they’ll have to make cuts, whether in staffing or
possibly divesting some newspapers such as Times of London,”
Doctor said.  Murdoch said on the Fox Business Network that his son
Lachlan, a former publisher of the New York Post, is “highly
unlikely” to become CEO of the spinoff. Asked if any of his
children will take on an expanded role in the new companies,
Murdoch said, “They will have to earn it -- and want it.”  Thomson, Fenwick  Lachlan is currently chairman of  Ten Network Holdings Ltd. (TEN) ,
owner of one of Australia’s largest television networks.
Murdoch’s daughter Elisabeth, meanwhile, founded TV production
company Shine Group Ltd. She sold it to News Corp. for 415
million pounds ($643 million) last year.  News Corp. may be considering Thomson, 51, a former editor
at  Pearson Plc (PSON) ’s Financial Times newspaper who joined News
Corp.’s U.K. newspaper division in 2002.  Murdoch, 81,  named  Thomson publisher of the Wall Street
Journal in 2007 when News Corp. acquired Dow Jones, the
financial newspaper’s publisher. He became editor-in-chief of
all of Dow Jones in 2008. Like Murdoch, Thomson is from
Australia.  Fenwick came on board in February. He replaced  Les Hinton ,
who departed as Dow Jones CEO in July amid fallout from the
hacking scandal. Hinton had been in charge of News Corp.’s
British papers when the hacking took place.  Fenwick previously served as CEO of Bloomberg LP, where he
worked for almost 25 years. Bloomberg competes with Dow Jones in
supplying financial news and information.  Post’s Losses  News Corp.’s publishing units bring in about $1.3 billion
in annual earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, estimates Brett Harriss, an analyst at Gabelli &
Co. in Rye, New York.  Profit at the unit fell to $864 million in fiscal 2011 from
$1.28 billion in fiscal 2008, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Not everything makes money, though. The New York Post loses
as much as $110 million annually, according to Harriss.  News Corp. maintains a large foothold in Australia’s
country’s newspaper market. The papers there, including  the
Australian  national daily, bring in about $530 million in annual
EBITDA, estimates Harriss. That’s more than any other publishing
asset within the company, he said.  Hacking Scandal  The breakup comes after the hacking scandal threatened the
company’s holdings in satellite-TV company  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)  Ofcom, a U.K. media regulatory agency,
is considering whether News Corp. should be allowed to keep its
39 percent stake in BSkyB.  The scandal, which erupted last July, centered on News
Corp.’s tabloid journalists hacking into the phones of U.K.
politicians and celebrities for exclusive stories. The outcry
prompted News Corp. to shelve plans to take full control of
BSkyB, Britain’s biggest pay-TV operator, which was led by
Murdoch’s son James for almost a decade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  