-- News Corp. Announces Plans to Split Into Two Companies
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e ,   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-06-28T20:06:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/news-corp-board-said-to-approve-plan-to-split-company.html
News Corp. (NWS)  announced plans to split
into two publicly traded entities focused on publishing and
entertainment after shareholder pressure prompted the biggest
reorganization since Rupert Murdoch built the media empire.  The publishing business will consist of newspapers in the
U.S., U.K. and  Australia , as well as book, education and
marketing assets, according to a  statement  today. The media and
entertainment company will have film and TV assets. Murdoch will
be chairman of both entities and chief executive officer  of
entertainment when the deal closes in about 12 months.  “Everyone is enormously excited for what we’ll be able to
achieve with this split,” Murdoch, 81, said in a phone
interview. At a meeting with editors and publishers two days
ago, Murdoch invited them “to ask every possible question”
about the move, he said. “They all went away very positive.”  With the action, Murdoch is bowing to shareholder demands
after a costly yearlong scandal at his treasured newspaper
operation, which is seen as a drag on the larger and growing
film, broadcast and pay-television units. The phone-hacking
probe at the U.K. newspapers has led to arrests and
parliamentary hearings, costing  News Corp. (NWSA)  millions.  Murdoch said on a conference call today that “each entity
will be better managed and more easily managed.”  Chase Carey ,
now chief operating officer, will retain that role at the
entertainment company.  Lachlan’s Role  News Corp. has yet to pick a head for the publishing
company. Murdoch said that his son Lachlan, who serves on News
Corp.’s  board , probably won’t become CEO of the spinoff.  “It’s highly unlikely,” Murdoch said on the Fox Business
Network, dispelling speculation that Lachlan might be picked.
Asked if his children will take on an expanded role in either of
the new companies, Murdoch said, “They will have to earn it --
and want it.”  Shares of News Corp., which also owns the Fox film studio,
broadcast network and cable channels such as FX and  Fox News ,
climbed 25 percent this year through yesterday -- partly driven
by speculation that the company would consider a breakup.  The stock fell 1.4 percent to $21.99 at the close in  New
York . The shares had gained 11 percent in the previous two days
after News Corp. first announced it was considering a breakup.  “Rupert realized he’ll be able to unlock the most value
for the company by doing this,” said  David Bank , a New York-
based analyst with  RBC Capital Markets . “He gets to
strategically do what he thinks is right in terms of their
publishing business, and he’s aligning his interest more clearly
with his shareholders. It makes sense.”  Better Valuation  Carey and Chief Financial Officer David DeVoe were key to
convincing Murdoch that a split would result in a better
valuation for the entertainment group while also allowing him to
keep control of his newspaper business, a person familiar with
the matter said.  Centerview Partners , Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan
Chase & Co. are advising News Corp. on the breakup, according to
people with knowledge of the situation. JPMorgan is working with
the company on the  capital structure , credit ratings and
financing for the publishing company, one person said.  The publishing unit will have no debt and “very large
reserves of cash,” Murdoch said in an interview today with
Bloomberg Television.  “Our publishing businesses are greatly undervalued by the
skeptics,” Murdoch wrote in a memo to employees. “Through this
transformation we will unleash their real potential, and be able
to better articulate the true value they hold for
shareholders.”  Market Value  News Corp. has a market value of about $53 billion. The
company may be worth $70 billion to $77 billion by valuing its
businesses separately, according to Gabelli & Co. and BMO
Capital Markets. The entertainment businesses could command
about as much as News Corp.’s current market value, Gabelli said
this week.  News Corp. derives at least 70 percent of its annual profit
from television. Publishing, which includes Wall Street Journal
publisher Dow Jones, the New York Post and the Australian
newspaper, contributed about 18 percent of operating income in
fiscal 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Bloomberg
LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with News Corp. units
in providing financial news and information.  The publishing division gets about 40 percent of its
business from the U.S., according to  Barton Crockett , an analyst
with Lazard Capital Markets. About 40 percent comes from the
company’s Australian newspapers and the rest from the U.K.
publishing group, where the scandal erupted last year.  Murdoch said today on the conference call that the split
isn’t a reaction to “anything in Britain.”  Making Cuts  While the breakup is sure to unlock value for the newly
formed entertainment company, the publishing entity will require
significant cost cutting, according to Ken Doctor, an analyst
with Outsell Inc.  “In order to stabilize it over the next two to three
years, they’ll have to make cuts, whether in staffing or
possibly divesting some newspapers such as Times of  London ,”
Doctor said in a telephone interview.  The Australian unit of the publishing group will have to
undergo some staff cuts, Murdoch said in the interview with
Bloomberg News.  “We have not been specific about how many people to lose,
but there will be loss in numbers there,” he said. Still, the
Australian companies will also expand, he said, without
specifying in which areas.  Cash, Debt  News Corp. didn’t discuss how debt or cash would be divided
between the new entities. The company had long-term debt of
$15.2 billion and cash and equivalents of $10.7 billion as of
the end of March. Moody’s Investors Service today affirmed News
Corp.’s debt rating of Baa1 -- three levels above noninvestment
grade. Murdoch said on the call that the publishing business
would have a “robust net cash position.”  The company aims to use the burgeoning tablet market to
spur growth of both news and entertainment, Murdoch said today
in the memo.  “In five years’ time, there will be at least 75 million
tablets in the U.S. and 375 million in the world,” he said.
“It is my firm belief that these two companies will be best
positioned to compete in this rapidly evolving global economy
and distribute our premium content on these platforms.”  News Corp. said on June 26 that it was considering the
split, which comes as U.K. media regulator Ofcom considers
whether the company should be allowed to keep its 39 percent
stake in  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY) , in light of the
phone-hacking scandal.  Voice Mail  The  Guardian newspaper  reported on July 4 of last year that
journalists at the now-closed News of the World tabloid hacked
into the voice-mail account of a murdered schoolgirl. The
revelation disrupted News Corp.’s plans to take to take full
control of BSkyB, Britain’s biggest pay-TV operator.  Rupert Murdoch  and his son James, 39, who led the U.K.
newspaper operation and headed BSkyB for almost a decade, were
called to testify before a U.K. parliamentary committee.  A separation of the publishing business is unlikely to
affect Ofcom’s investigation into whether News Corp. is “fit
and proper” to own a broadcast license, said RBC’s Bank.  The Ofcom probe wasn’t a factor in the decision to split
the company, Murdoch said on Bloomberg Television.  “This was purely a business decision that the company
would be better this way,” Murdoch said.  Publishing Profit  In the nine months ended March 31, News Corp.’s publishing
unit generated a profit of $458 million, an operating margin of
less than 8 percent of revenue, according to the company’s
earnings report in May. The cable, film and television units
produced a combined $4 billion in profit, a margin exceeding 25
percent.  The hacking and bribery scandals in the U.K. have led to
more than 50 arrests and forced News Corp. to shut down the most
popular tabloid in the country, the News of the World, in July
2011. It hasn’t spared the executive ranks, either.  Les Hinton , the former head of Dow Jones & Co. and a close
associate of Rupert Murdoch for half a century, stepped down
before he was compelled to answer lawmakers’ questions about his
time at the U.K. papers, where he claimed hacking wasn’t
widespread. Rebekah Brooks, the former CEO of the News
International publishing business, also left and has been
charged with perverting the course of justice by destroying
evidence.  A U.K. committee, after probing whether News Corp. misled
Parliament in the telephone-hacking scandal, concluded in May
that Murdoch is “not a fit person to exercise the stewardship
of a major international company.” Murdoch “exhibited willful
blindness to what was going on in his companies and
publications,” the House of Commons Culture Committee said in a
report. “This culture, we consider, permeated from the top.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  