-- Next Hot Market Puts Capitalism’s Ethos to Test
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-06-28T21:00:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/next-hot-market-puts-capitalism-s-ethos-to-test.html
In a world of turmoil and gloom,
 Aung San Suu Kyi  is a beacon of optimism. Lately, though, the
Burmese pro-democracy icon is sounding like a killjoy.  Suu Kyi cautions markets and executives against “reckless
optimism” about Myanmar’s prospects, a position at odds with
her impoverished nation’s efforts to court them. Fellow Nobel
laureate  Joseph Stiglitz  speaks for the economic intelligentsia
when he calls her “excessively pessimistic.”  Yet there’s an element to her concerns that isn’t getting
enough attention: the dangers of the very capitalism that
economists say will save Myanmar.  The few out there who are wary of rushing into Asia’s
newest frontier question the sincerity of President Thein Sein’s
political reforms. Is it an elaborate head-fake? The fear is
that billions of dollars pour in amid promises of change that
never comes as military rule returns. Clashes in western Myanmar
involving Muslim Rohingyas already have human-rights groups
crying foul.  What if the real risk isn’t the generals, but impatient
investors betting on overnight transformations and quick
profits?  “These are the hypes that we are currently facing,” Maung
Maung Lay, vice president of the  Union of Myanmar Federation of
Chambers of Commerce and Industry , said in Bangkok last week. So
great is the “tsunami of potential investment” that Maung says
he can’t print business cards fast enough to meet demand.  Tremendous Pressure  All the excitement is putting tremendous pressure on
Myanmar to implement broad reforms as the economy tries to catch
up with the pace of political change. As Maung points out, the
time difference between Myanmar’s biggest city, Yangon, and
Singapore is 1 1/2 hours. In terms of economic development,
though, they are 30 years apart.  The sudden influx of dealmakers already has locals
complaining about a property bubble in Yangon (formerly Rangoon)
and the capital, Naypyidaw. One would expect costs to rise a bit
when a former pariah state suddenly gets nibbles from Coca-Cola
Co., General Electric Co., Honda Motor Co., Standard Chartered
Plc, Tata Motors Ltd.,  Unilever (UNA)  and WPP Plc subsidiary Ogilvy &
Mather. The mere specter of Myanmar becoming too expensive even
before the economy is formally opened to the world is reason for
concern.  Myanmar’s boom will only be sustainable if it finds the
right policies. The question is whether foreigners know that
they themselves are also a vital part of that “if.” It’s hard
to recall the last time investors were so bullish on a frontier
market. They must be patient and give Myanmar the space needed
to rebuild itself -- to modernize its rudimentary banking
system, devise a credible judicial apparatus and improve
infrastructure.  Than Nyein, Myanmar’s  central bank  governor, has his own
lengthy to-do list: creating internationally respected legal,
regulatory and supervisory frameworks. “We need to reform our
markets and foreign-exchange system, too,” he said in Bangkok
last week. “We need to change.”  That need is all the more pressing if Myanmar is to handle
the crush of money waiting at the border. Just consider what
needs to happen before reaching Myanmar’s goal of listing as
many as 22 companies on a stock exchange it plans to open by
2015. Remember that 10 years of hype preceded the inauguration
of Cambodia’s stock exchange in April. It features only one
stock. The Laos Composite Index contains only two stocks.  Resource Curse  Enforceable laws must be in place if Myanmar is to avoid
the commodities curse that befalls many developing nations.  Asia 
is rife with examples of countries struggling to spread the
benefits of vast natural resources. Too often, they enrich
corrupt public officials and their cronies, not the masses.  Worried about a similar fate in Myanmar, Suu Kyi is calling
for investments that promote democracy, transparency and the
development of a vibrant private sector rather than those that
strengthen the government’s hand. “ Burma  has been a command
economy for far too long and we have never prospered along that
rule, so that now we are opening up we want to make sure that we
are opening up in the right way,” she said recently.  Suu Kyi made this plea, significantly, in Oslo, where she
gave her Nobel Peace Prize lecture 21 years after receiving the
honor. She is challenging a capitalist world all too prone to
excesses, effectively saying: If you come to my country, do it
the right way.  Ultimate Challenge  Investors will be quick to snap back: Uh, that’s not really
what we do. We’re here to make money. Yet acting as
stakeholders, not just shareholders, may be what’s needed if
Myanmar is to avoid the “time bomb” of youth unemployment that
worries Suu Kyi. The same goes for making sure that today’s
opportunities pay off five to 10 years from now. In this way,
Myanmar may be the ultimate ethical-investment challenge.  How, and when, will the world know if Myanmar’s renaissance
is for real? To Burmese tycoon Serge Pun, it all comes down to
three words: 1 million jobs. “If we create them soon, it will
transform our nation,” he said. “From there, you will see
great changes coming. If not, we will have some explaining to do
about where all that optimism went.”  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why  John Roberts saved
Obamacare  and why  Mexico ’s next president  must combat its
economic cartels ; Stephen L. Carter in praise of  Supreme Court
secrecy ;  Noah Feldman  on  Roberts’s restraint ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on
 misunderstanding the court ’s decision;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on
whether  women can have it all ;  Jonathan Weil  on how the  Bank for
International Settlements   sees the industry ;  Steven Greenhut  on
using eminent domain to  take over foreclosed homes .  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Bangkok at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  