-- NFL Moves Late Afternoon Kickoffs 10 Minutes for Television
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-06-28T19:10:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/nfl-moves-late-afternoon-kickoffs-back-10-minutes-for-television.html
The  National Football League  is
pushing back the start of about 40 Sunday afternoon games after
finding that television audiences were cut off from the
conclusion of 44 early contests in the past three seasons.  Kickoff for the late afternoon double-header games on  CBS (CBS) 
Corp.’s CBS and News Corp.’s Fox will be moved to 4:25 p.m.
eastern from 4:15 p.m. the league said in an e-mailed statement.
Games in the 4:05 p.m. timeslot, not part of the double-header
scheduled, are unchanged.  Former CBS Sports President  Neal Pilson  said the change is
a “win-win” for the NFL and sports programming for the two
networks because television viewership on Sunday increases as
the day goes on. The 10-minute change also will benefit sports
books, according to oddsmakers, and Pilson said it may have an
adverse effect on local news programming, typically scheduled
for later on Sunday evening.  “More people can now watch the end of the early games, and
since the second group of games now starts later, you have a
larger television audience for those games as well,” Pilson,
president of Pilson Communications Inc., said in a television
interview. “I don’t think the overall effect will be too large
because this is just a portion of the NFL schedule.”  The move will allow more 1 p.m. eastern time games to be
shown to their conclusion before networks have to switch to the
opening of the second contest, the league said. A 4:25 p.m.
start would have resulted in a 66 percent decrease in the number
of games that were cut off from 2009 through last year, to 15.  Tebow Time  One of those games came on Dec. 4, 2011, as  Tim Tebow  led
the  Denver Broncos  to a game-winning field goal as time expired
against the  Minnesota Vikings .  It was the team’s fifth straight win, coming as so-called
Tebow-mania was approaching its height. Those watching in New
York, where Tebow now plays for the Jets, along with viewers in
the  Green Bay ,  Dallas , Phoenix,  St. Louis  and San Francisco
markets, missed the conclusion because the Denver game ended
four minutes after the late afternoon games kicked off.  Pilson said the move may have a negative effect on the
after-football programs on CBS, which will be pushed back by the
delay.  CBS has four hours of national programming after football,
scheduled to start at 7 p.m. eastern, and then local affiliate
news at 11 p.m. If games run past the start of national
programming, everything is delayed.  ‘No Plus’  “There is no plus for the local news,” Pilson said.
“Local news could see a decrease in viewers if it is pushed too
far into the evening.”  CBS said in a statement that the football overruns tend to
help the rest of the night’s ratings. Viewer totals were higher
on double-header weekends than when prime-time programming
started directly at 7 p.m., according to a network statement.  “We know the shows will start late, and we plan to be
extra aggressive in communicating the adjusted start times to
the audience, both on-air and elsewhere,” the network said in
the statement.  Fox (NWSA) ’s football post-game show goes off the air at 8 p.m.,
allowing the network more room to absorb the later kickoffs. The
network has only two hours of national programming, then local
affiliate programming at 10.  Fox spokesman  Lou D’Ermilio  said the kickoff change will
benefit fans that have invested time in watching early games and
would like to see their conclusions.  $1 Billion Contracts  Last year both Fox and CBS signed nine-year contract
extensions to air NFL games through the 2022 season. Both
extensions are worth about $1 billion each, the Washington Post
reported citing unidentified sources within the television
industry.  The new schedule will increase the handle for sports books,
according to  Jeff Sherman , assistant manager of the Las Vegas
Hotel and Casino’s sports betting.  “This will allow time for bettors to turn over their
winning wagers to late games,” Sherman said in an e-mail.
“This sometimes posed a problem with the 4:15 eastern start
times.”  Sports books in  Nevada  took in $1.3 billion in college and
professional football wagers in 2011, a 4.2 percent increase
from 2010, according to the Nevada Gaming Control Board. NFL
bets account for roughly 66 percent, or $858 million, of the
state’s football handle, according to RJ Bell of Pregame.com.  Highest Ratings  The NFL accounted for the three highest-rated shows among
adults 18-49 last season, according to  Brad Adgate , senior vice
president of research at  Horizon Media, Inc . NBC’s “Sunday
Night Football” was the highest rated among data from September
through May, followed by Sunday games on Fox and CBS.  Fox averaged 20.1 million viewers for its games, while CBS
averaged 18.4 million, according to Adgate. NBC’s prime time
package averaged 21.5 million.  Pilson, who called the NFL the “largest ratings generator
in the universe,” said that the league’s games and pre- and
post-game shows consistently average a total of around 80
million viewers a week. He said there are roughly 100 million
television households in America.  “Obviously there are people watching multiple games, but
that is almost the totality of the country,” Pilson said.
“There’s no other property whose ratings come close.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  