-- Nike Surpasses $2 Billion in Soccer Sales as Euro Final Beckons
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2012-06-28T21:36:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/nike-surpasses-2-billion-in-soccer-sales-as-euro-final-beckons.html
Nike Inc. (NKE) , the world’s largest
sporting-goods maker, says its soccer business generated sales
of more than $2 billion for the first time as it takes advantage
of increasing interest in the sport in the U.S. and Asia.  Nike, which said soccer sales rose 14 percent for the year
ended May 31, has been battling the market leader  Adidas AG (ADS)  for
supremacy in the world’s most popular sport. Nike, based in
Beaverton,  Oregon , got $1.8 billion in soccer sales last year.
Total revenue rose 16 percent to $24 billion this year.  A team in Adidas jerseys --  Spain  -- will meet  Italy , which
wears Puma, in the final of the European Championship in the
Olympic Stadium in Kiev in two days. Nike, which supplies
Cristiano Ronaldo’s Portugal team and  England  through its Umbro
brand, has been playing catch up to Adidas, soccer’s leader since
the 1970s. The German company worked with soccer’s governing body
FIFA for more than four decades, backing regional tournaments
and the World Cup, sport’s most-watched event. When Nike entered
the market during the U.S.-hosted 1994 World Cup, it got $40
million from the sport.  “Our strategy has always been more focused on athletes and
teams than on sponsoring tournaments and events,” Nike
spokesman Charlie Brooks said in an e-mailed statement. “That’s
not to say we would never become a sponsor.”  The U.S. and  Asia  have growing interests in soccer. In
America, television ratings for the European Championship are up
by 63 percent from four years ago, with quarterfinals rising by
31 percent, according to ESPN. Manchester United, Chelsea and
other professional teams are training in Asia to expand their
fan bases. Growth in the economy of  Brazil , where Nike sponsors
the national team, is also helping growth, Brooks said.  Ronaldo, Rooney  Nike sponsors football players from the Euro 2012 including
Ronaldo, England’s  Wayne Rooney  and Spain’s  Andres Iniesta  and
made jerseys for five teams at the tournament. Adidas made
jerseys for six teams.  Mario Balotelli , who scored both of
Italy’s goals in last night’s 2-1 upset of  Germany , is sponsored
by Nike.  Adidas Chief Executive Officer  Herbert Hainer  said on June
21 that he expects record soccer sales of “well over” 1.6
billion euros ($2 billion) for 2012. The forecast exceeds the
previous record of 1.5 billion euros, set in 2010 when the last
World Cup was held in  South Africa .  Hainer said in Warsaw that the company will sell more than
7 million Tango 12 balls this year and that it already sold more
than 1 million Germany jerseys, a record for a European
championship. The company sold “close” to 1 million Spain
replica shirts even in the current economic situation in the
country, Hainer said.  “Seven million is a big number and they could well beat
that number,” said Mark Josefson, an analyst at Silvia Quandt
Research GmbH in  Frankfurt . “Adidas was quite clever in terms
of branding. Adidas logo was in the middle of the pitch. It was
loud and in your face without being cluttered. We can already
say the event was a success for Adidas.”  Umbro Sale  Nike is selling off its money-losing Umbro unit less than
five years after buying the U.K.-based company for $580 million.
It’s the apparel provider to the English national soccer team
and its diamond insignia featured on the shirts of record five-
time world champion Brazil until it switched to Nike in 1998.
Umbro also sponsored record 19-time English champion  Manchester
United , which claims to have the biggest number of supporters in
the world.  Brooks said Nike’s soccer brand has gained enough of a
reputation that the Umbro brand is no longer relevant to its
business needs.  “When we originally purchased Umbro it was with a view to
Umbro providing a ‘lifestyle’ element, allowing Nike to focus on
performance,” he said in an e-mail. “Now Nike Football can
cater to performance and lifestyle, there is too much overlap.
Our intent to sell Umbro shows the confidence we have in our
Football category.”  New Shoes  Adidas CEO Hainer said in Warsaw on June 21 that Adidas is
not interested in buying Umbro as his company is already the
market leader.  Adidas and Nike used the  European Championship  this year as
a platform for marketing products and both released new shoes
before the beginning of the tournament. Nike unveiled its
“Clash collection” boots, which were worn by Ronaldo, while
Adidas released a new version of its eighteen-year-old Predator
shoes, which were worn by German midfielder  Thomas Mueller .  “The world cups and European cups are paramount to launch
new products,” said Udo Mueller, a senior technical marketing
manager at Adidas, in an interview in Herzogenaurach. “The new
Predator is significantly lighter and the future will go more
towards lighter shoes.”  According to Nike, 59 percent of the goals scored up to the
quarter finals were by players wearing Nike shoes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in Donetsk, Ukraine, via the London newsroom at
   tpanja@bloomberg.net ; Julie Cruz in
Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  