-- Nissan Adds Sentra Output, 1,000 Jobs in Mississippi
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-06-28T17:42:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/nissan-adds-sentra-output-1-000-jobs-in-mississippi.html
Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  said it will hire
at least 1,000 more workers and build Sentra small car at its
Canton, Mississippi, plant as the Japanese carmaker expands
North American production to help counter a strong yen.  The new output at the factory begins late this year, Nissan
said today in a statement. With the Sentra and the addition of
Frontier pickups and Xterra sport-utility vehicles that was
announced in April, the plant’s employment will rise to 4,500,
the company said.  “When we launch the next-generation Sentra, we expect to
see higher demand, more competitiveness with that product,”
 Bill Krueger , the Yokohama, Japan-based automaker’s vice
chairman of the Americas, said in a telephone interview. “We’re
really preparing now for that increase in Sentra demand.”  Nissan, the second-largest Japanese automaker, is working
to curb the effect of the stronger yen, which makes production
in the company’s home market for export more expensive. The yen
has strengthened against the U.S. currency for the past four
years, dropping to an average of 80 to the dollar last year from
118 in 2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company, which announced a $2 billion expansion in
 Mexico  in January, has a goal of making 85 percent of autos it
sells in  North America  and  South America  at factories in those
regions by 2015. Nissan’s Smyrna, Tennessee, plant, its largest
in the Americas, begins making Leaf electric cars in late 2012.  Increased Capacity  The move in Canton will boost that plant’s annual
production capacity to 450,000 vehicles and cost about
$23 million, said  Brian Brockman , a Nissan spokesman.  The Sentra, which is being revamped as a 2013 model, will
continue to be made at the Aguascalientes, Mexico, plant, when
the Canton production starts in December, Krueger said. The U.S.
factory now builds Altima sedans, Armada SUVs, Titan pickups and
NV commercial vans, Nissan said.  Nissan’s North American unit is based in Franklin,
Tennessee. The company’s  American depositary receipts  rose
0.2 percent to $18.29 at 1:27 p.m. in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Koenig at 
 wkoenig@bloomberg.net  