-- TNK-BP Shareholders Plan Meeting as BP Pursues Sale of Interest
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2012-06-28T13:32:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/tnk-bp-shareholders-plan-meeting-as-bp-pursues-sale-of-interest.html
TNK-BP’s shareholders are planning
to meet on after the incomplete board of Russia’s third-biggest
oil producer failed to gather for almost seven months, according
to Chief Financial Officer  Jonathan Muir .  Management of the venture, owned 50-50 by  BP Plc (BP/)  and a
group of billionaires, is preparing for a meeting of directors
or shareholders to discuss strategic issues or high-value
transactions that must be decided unanimously, Muir said.  “As of this morning that’s what we were doing and that’s
what we continue to do,” Muir told reporters today in Moscow.
“This is an evolving situation.”  BP announced this month that it was considering selling
half of the Moscow-based oil producer amid a shareholders
dispute that flared up over the U.K. company’s failed bid to
swap shares and explore the Arctic with state-run OAO Rosneft.
AAR, which represents the billionaires, has until mid-July to
decided on whether it wants to bid, two people with knowledge of
the agreement have said, asking not to be identified because the
matter is confidential.  TNK-BP’s 11-member board hasn’t met since early December
after two of its three independent directors resigned, and
dividends won’t be paid until both are replaced, the company
said last month. AAR and BP each have four representatives.  Board Meeting  BP agreed with the billionaire shareholders to hold a
board meeting next month, the  Daily Telegraph  reported
yesterday, without saying where it got the information. The
shareholders include  Mikhail Fridman ,  Viktor Vekselberg  and  Len
Blavatnik , all of whom are board directors, and TNK-BP Executive
Director  German Khan .  Muir said the only item he knows of that can be voted on
without a full board is field development plans for its Rospan
gas and condensate unit. He wouldn’t comment on the date, format
or agenda of the potential meeting, saying he was still waiting
for information. The TNK-BP corporate model still works, and the
company is continuing to develop, he said.  “As for dividends, it will be the decision of the
shareholders as to when and how much,” Muir said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  