-- Nordstrom to Open First NYC Store at New West Side Tower
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t   a n d   N o a h   R a y m a n
-- 2012-06-28T19:49:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/nordstrom-to-open-first-manhattan-store-at-new-57th-street-tower.html
Nordstrom Inc. (JWN) , the owner of more
than 100 namesake department stores, plans to open its first
full-line location in  New York City  on  Manhattan ’s West Side,
ending a site search that stretched for more than two decades.  The Seattle-based chain said it will own and occupy the
seven-story, 285,000-square-foot (26,000-square-meter) base of a
tower to be built by Extell Development Co. at Broadway and West
57th Street, near Columbus Circle and  Carnegie Hall . The
agreement was announced today at a press conference with Extell
President  Gary Barnett , Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  and Peter Nordstrom, the retailer’s president of merchandising.  “We’ve had the intention and the drive, gosh, probably for
the last 25 years to try to be here,” Peter Nordstrom said in
an interview at the press conference. “We fully expect this to
be our most successful store.”  Nordstrom has grown from a single Seattle  shoe store  that
opened in 1901 to a national retailer with a focus on  customer
service . It operates 231 stores in 31 states, including 117
full-line stores. New York City has been a hole on its map, one
that President Blake Nordstrom said last year the retailer was
“very interested” in filling.  Other Sites  Among other sites the retailer considered were Related
Cos.’ Hudson Yards project on the Far West Side; 909 Third Ave.
and the former Drake Hotel site, both on the East Side; and
Sixth Avenue and West 31st Street, south of Herald Square, said
Derek Trulson, an executive with brokerage  Jones Lang LaSalle
Inc. (JLL)  who represented Nordstrom. Robert Futterman of RKF &
Associates represented Extell.  “They’ve been spotted in New York now for the past 20
years,” Benjamin Fox, executive vice president for retail
leasing at New York-based Massey Knakal Realty Services, said of
Nordstrom in an interview. “To say this was long in the making
is an understatement.”  Nordstrom agreed to buy its space in the Extell building,
which will be at least 900,000 square feet, Trulson said.  Peter Nordstrom declined to say how much the company will
pay Extell for the store. The tower will be funded by
Nordstrom’s contribution, “very substantial equity” and a
memorandum of understanding from a bank, Barnett said, without
going into further detail.  ‘Iconic’ Tower  “We have pledged to Nordstrom that they will anchor an
iconic tower,” Barnett said at the press conference.  The retailer has a Nordstrom Rack outlet on 14th Street in
Union Square and  Treasure & Bond , a so-called concept store, on
West Broadway in Soho, which gives all its profits to  New York 
children’s charities. Today’s press conference was held there.  Construction on Extell’s tower may start in the first
quarter of next year and be completed in 2018, Barnett said in a
statement. The building will also include residences and a
hotel, he said.  Barnett, one of Manhattan’s most active developers, is
building the 90-story One57, New York’s tallest residential
tower, a block east of the Nordstrom site. His other properties
include the Lucida, the Avery and the Rushmore.  The West Side Nordstrom will be smaller than the city’s
largest department stores, according to data from the Real
Estate Board of New York.  Macy’s Inc. (M) ’s Herald Square flagship
building is 2.1 million square feet, with 1.1 million square
feet of selling space.  Saks Fifth Avenue (SKS) ’s store across from
Rockefeller Center is 1 million square feet, while
Bloomingdale’s on Lexington Avenue has 839,900 square feet.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg LP,
parent company of Bloomberg News.  Moving West  The new Nordstrom would be walking distance from Time
Warner Center and its multilevel Shops at Columbus Circle, which
features a Whole Foods supermarket, such specialty stores as
Coach,  Hugo Boss  and  J. Crew , and expensive restaurants
including Masa, Per Se and Porter House New York.  “It seems all the big shopping is moving west,” following
the new high-rise residential towers between Eighth Avenue and
the  Hudson River , said Faith Hope Consolo, chairman of retail
leasing at Prudential Douglas Elliman. “This will ensure that
the West Side will be a true shopping destination not just for
foodies but for fashion.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Rayman in New York at 
 nrayman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  