-- Norway to Consider Pension Product Overhaul for Life Insurers
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2012-06-28T15:54:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/norway-to-consider-pension-product-overhaul-for-life-insurers.html
Norway is considering changes to
occupational pension product rules to ensure Norwegian life
insurers can adjust to stricter European  capital requirements 
and longer  life expectancy .  The changes to insurance-based occupational pension product
rules include two alternative models for regulating cost and
risk-sharing among insurers, employers and workers, the Banking
Law Commission said today in a statement.  “The capital requirements following the new products will
be risk manageable,” Oslo-based  Storebrand ASA (STB) , Norway’s
second-biggest publicly traded insurer, said today in a
statement. The new proposals “are well adapted to the reform in
the public pension system and the new capital requirements under
Solvency II.”  The proposals are designed to ensure Norwegian requirements
for paid-up corporate pension products can be managed with the
introduction of the European Solvency II capital requirements
for insurers. The new product models will not guarantee returns
to policyholders, according to Storebrand.  Storebrand rose as much as 11 percent, the most since June
20, and was up 6.6 percent at 22 kroner ($3.63) as of 5:03 p.m.
in Oslo trading, making it the second-largest gainer in the 28-
member  Bloomberg Europe 500 Insurance Index. (BEINSUR)   “We have come a step in the right direction today,”  DNB
ASA (DNB) , Norway’s biggest bank, said in an e-mailed statement. “The
product is suited to life insurers’ future conditions and
capital requirements.”  Norway’s finance minister, Sigbjoern Johnsen, plans to
submit a bill to parliament late this year or early next year,
the Ministry of Finance said in a  statement  on its website
today. A comprehensive plan is expected to be approved by
lawmakers in mid-2013, the ministry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  