-- Norway June Unemployment Unexpectedly Rises as Hiring Stalls
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r   a n d   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2012-06-28T10:39:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/norway-june-unemployment-unexpectedly-rises-as-hiring-stalls-1-.html
Norway ’s  unemployment  rate
unexpectedly rose in June, the first increase since January, as
 Europe ’s debt crisis weighed on hiring.  Registered unemployment rose to 2.4 percent this month,
according to a statement from the Oslo-based  Labor and Welfare
Organization  today. The median estimate of a Bloomberg survey of
12 economists was for an unchanged rate of 2.3 percent.  “The labor market in isolation suggests a higher  interest
rate  than today’s level,” Swedbank First Securities said in an
e-mail. “But a weak economic outlook among our trading partners
outweighs this and puts a lid on the key policy rate for now.”  Norway’s central bank expects registered unemployment will
average 2.5 percent this year, it said in its latest monetary
policy report. Record investments by energy companies operating
on Norway’s offshore oil and gas fields have sheltered the
Nordic economy from the fallout of Europe’s debt crisis.  An improved economic outlook prompted policy makers to
increase their growth forecast for the mainland economy, which
excludes oil and gas output, to 3.75 percent this year from an
earlier estimate of 3.25 percent.  Today’s higher unemployment figure is “ probably not a
trend ,” Nordea Securities economist  Erik Bruce  said in an e-
mail. “If we are right and this is not the start of an upward
trend, it will matter little to monetary policy.”  Consumer Confidence  Norway estimated investments in the nation’s oil and
natural gas industry will rise 4.5 percent next year to a record
as discoveries boost spending on exploration,  Statistics Norway 
said earlier this month. Spending is estimated to rise to a
record 194 billion kroner ($32 billion) next year, up from an
estimated 186 billion kroner this year.  Consumer confidence  in the world’s third-richest nation per
capita rose to a 12-month high in the second quarter, while
continued low borrowing costs have fueled real estate
investments, leading to increased  house prices .  Norges Bank, which  has held its interest rate  at 1.5
percent since March, signaled this month that it will start
raising borrowing costs in the first quarter next year, earlier
than previously indicated, as policy makers steer an
accelerating economic recovery.  “Employment growth is high and is expected to increase at
a slightly faster pace than labor supply, so that unemployment
may be somewhat lower than previously projected,” Norges Bank
said in its report on June 20.  The rise “could signal a slight shift in the labor market,
but is in line with our view that the strong growth in
employment will be more than offset by an expansion of the  labor
force ,” Handelsbanken economist Ida Wolden Bache said in an e-
mail. That may result in unemployment rising above Norges Bank’s
forecast, she said. “For now, however, we think Norges Bank
will maintain its view of the labor market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net  