-- Obama Can Only Say Factory Jobs Return Still Being Offset
-- B y   D a v i d   J .   L y n c h
-- 2012-06-28T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/obama-can-only-say-factory-jobs-return-still-being-offset.html
President  Barack Obama  said last
month he had “good news”: lost American jobs are returning to
the U.S.  “For a lot of businesses,” the president said at a May 8
event in  Albany , New York, “it’s now starting to make sense to
bring jobs back home.”  For many other businesses, however, it still makes sense to
ship them abroad. The net effect of this two-way traffic on the
labor market has been virtually invisible so far and -- contrary
to the administration’s claims about what is known as
“reshoring” -- will be for years, manufacturing specialists
and economists say.  “Our conclusion was a net zero,” says Michael Janssen,
author of a new  study  of the trend for the Hackett Group, a
Miami-based consultancy. “Some of these jobs that are coming
back get a lot of press. But there are just as many that get no
press coverage still going offshore.”  The president’s re-election campaign is trying to
capitalize on voter angst over the cross-border flow of American
jobs. In a new television advertisement, the Obama camp labels
presumptive Republican nominee  Mitt Romney  the “outsourcer-in-
chief” for his past private-equity investments in companies
that moved jobs abroad, even as the president touts signs of a
turnaround in U.S. competitiveness that he says is drawing jobs
home.  Employers such as General Electric Co. and  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) 
have responded to a shifting cost calculus by manufacturing in
the U.S. rather than elsewhere, offering election-year hope to
communities suffering persistently high unemployment.  Back From China  The White House said in January “jobs are coming back to
the U.S. from a wide range of locations,” including  China . A
combination of rising wages for Chinese workers, a strengthening
Chinese currency, and a new appreciation of the virtues of
domestic production, including the availability of low-cost
natural gas, explains the industrial revival, the administration
says.  Manufacturers have added 495,000 jobs since January 2010,
when factory employment bottomed at almost 6 million below the
2000 level, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Of that
6 million, almost 40 percent were lost to other countries,
either directly or because imports replaced domestic production,
says  Robert Scott  of the  Economic Policy Institute  in
Washington.  To be sure, ending this long-term hemorrhaging of U.S. jobs
would be an economic plus, even if the number of jobs returning
to the U.S. remains limited. Yet at the current pace, it would
take another 25 years for the U.S. to regain all the factory
jobs lost in the past dozen years.  Early Days  Hal Sirkin, who wrote a 2011  Boston Consulting Group  report
on a U.S. manufacturing comeback, says it’s impossible to
estimate how many of the new jobs were previously outsourced.  “It’s not going to be a very large number,” he said.
“We’re still very early in the trend. The economics don’t
really start to work until 2015.”  For every company bringing work back to the U.S., there’s
another shipping jobs out of the country, a review of petitions
filed with the U.S. Labor Department on behalf of displaced
workers shows.  In Miami, Boston Scientific Corp. earlier this year let go
the last of about 1,100 workers idled when the company moved
production of its medical stents to Costa Rica.  At  Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  in Acton, Massachusetts, 23
positions are scheduled to disappear when manufacturing and
assembly of the company’s stainless steel gauged products moves
to Nanjing, China, by year’s end.  And in Oregon, Cooper Bussmann is shifting production of 
its electrical components to  Mexico  in a move that will shutter
its Tualatin plant and eliminate 74 jobs.  ‘Initial Progress’  For his part, the president has cited a Boston Consulting
Group online survey that showed 37 percent of manufacturers with
sales of more than $1 billion and almost half of those with more
than $10 billion say they “plan to or are actively considering
bringing back production from China to the U.S.”  Amy Brundage , a White House spokeswoman, said the
administration “has not only highlighted the emerging trend of
insourcing, but has also put forward a comprehensive plan to
build on this initial progress.” One measure Obama has promoted
would use the  tax code  to encourage manufacturers to invest more
in the U.S.  Still, the White House employs an expansive definition of
insourcing, including jobs that returned to the U.S. from abroad
as well as new positions created as the result of improved U.S.
competitiveness, according to the January report.  That fine print hasn’t always been clear on the campaign
trail. “The jobs that left the  United States  are coming back to
the United States,” Vice President Joseph Biden said March 28.  Close to Customers  Some of the best-known reshoring examples don’t involve
jobs leaving a foreign location to resettle in the U.S., so much
as a rethinking of the value of building products close to
customers.  In February, Caterpillar, which the White House cited as an
example of “insourcing” in the January report, said it would
move production of small tractors and excavators from Sagami,
Japan, to a new plant in Athens, Georgia, and create 1,400
American jobs.  Bridget Young, a Caterpillar spokeswoman, said none of the
1,000 Japanese workers in Sagami lost their jobs. The company
moved production to the U.S. because demand for those products
is now higher in North America and Europe.  ATM Machines  NCR Corp. was included in Boston Consulting’s insourcing
list after opening a plant in Columbus, Georgia, in late 2009 to
produce automated teller machines, which had been made in
Beijing.  Rising costs in China were “not the driving force” in the
decision, says Peter Dorsman, NCR’s executive vice president for
global operations, who described the move as part of a
realignment of global capacity. None of the 750 Beijing workers
who previously had made the machines were let go and NCR
simultaneously opened a new ATM factory in Manaus, Brazil.  The U.S. government’s own data suggests the administration
is overstating the potential for reshoring.  Since July 2005, when China began allowing its currency to
rise against the dollar, prices U.S. buyers paid for Chinese
imports have risen 4.5 percent, according to the Bureau of Labor
Statistics. That’s much less than the increase in wages and the
 yuan  would suggest.  Wage Increases  For workers in some coastal regions, wages have risen more
than 10 percent annually in recent years and the yuan has risen
by 23 percent against the dollar in the past seven years.  Chinese exporters have been able to hold the line on prices
by becoming more efficient. In the fourth quarter of 2011,
Chinese laborers’ productivity rose 7.5 percent from the
previous year, outstripping the 5.7 percent increase in unit
labor costs, according to the  World Bank .  Louis Kuijs , former senior economist in the World Bank’s
Beijing office, says he doesn’t expect significant movement of
jobs from China to the U.S. in the next decade.  “China still remains competitive in large sectors of
manufacturing,” said Kuijs, now project director at the Hong
Kong-based Fung Global Institute research group.  There’s also no sign of a manufacturing shift in monthly
figures for trade between the U.S. and China. For 27 consecutive
months, the U.S.  deficit  with China has been higher compared
with the same month the previous year, data compiled by 
Bloomberg show.  Losing More  “That suggests we’re losing more jobs than we’re
gaining,” said  Nicholas Lardy , an expert on the Chinese economy
at the Peterson Institute for International Economics. “There’s
a lot of wishful thinking that the era of cheap Chinese labor is
over and that our trade problems with China are getting
better.”  Some companies are bringing jobs back from foreign
locations, including China. Three years ago, quality problems
and unauthorized counterfeiting of its audio-visual mounting
systems prompted Peerless Industries Inc. to bring production
back to Aurora, Illinois.  The U.S. location allows the company to maintain smaller
inventories and implement design changes more quickly, said Mike Campagna, Peerless CEO. Total costs in the U.S. are still 10
percent to 15 percent higher than in China, he says.  Advantage Eroding  China’s cost advantage is gradually eroding, according to
the Hackett Group’s “total landed cost” measure, which
includes raw materials, manufacturing, transportation, inventory
and taxes and duties. In 2005, production in China was 31
percent cheaper than in advanced nations. By 2013, the gap will
be down to 16 percent -- small enough for U.S. production to 
make sense in some cases, said Hackett.  When Peerless moved production back home, the work that had
occupied more than 200 Chinese workers translated into about 50
American jobs because of both higher U.S. productivity and
weaker demand.  The Boston Consulting Group’s Sirkin estimates that over
the next eight years 2 million to 3 million jobs could result
from improved U.S. competitiveness.  “A significant chunk will be jobs that went to other
countries and came back,” he said.  Mexico, Canada  However, many jobs that exit China won’t all land in the 
U.S. Martin Franklin, chairman of Jarden Corp., whose Coleman
subsidiary last year moved production of its wheeled 16-quart
coolers from China to the U.S., said output of bulky products
involving relatively low labor content would increasingly return
to North America.  “It may not necessarily be the United States,” Franklin
said in a 2011 analysts call. “It may be Mexico. It may be
 Canada . It may be Costa Rica and various parts of  Latin
America .”  Many jobs that China is losing are going to other low-cost
Asian locations. Coach Inc. last year began reorganizing
production to minimize exposure to rising Chinese wages. By
2015, the company aims to reduce China’s share of its production
to about 50 percent from almost 80 percent today, Jane Nielsen,
the company’s chief financial officer, told analysts on June 5.  New orders will be sent to factories in Vietnam, Indonesia,
Thailand and the Philippines, she said. That sort of
reallocation won’t do much for American workers.  “The next president of the United States -- whoever he is
-- will end his term with fewer Americans working in
manufacturing than he inherited,” said Tim Leunig, an economics
professor at the  London School  of Economics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David J. Lynch in Washington at 
 dlynch27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark McQuillan in Washington at  mmcquillan@bloomberg.net  