-- Obama’s Health-Care Overhaul Upheld by U.S. Supreme Court
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-06-29T20:23:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/obama-s-health-care-overhaul-upheld-by-u-s-supreme-court.html
The U.S. Supreme Court affirmed the
core of President Barack Obama’s health-care overhaul in an
opinion that held two surprises: Chief Justice  John Roberts  was
the deciding vote, and his legal reasoning was unanticipated.  The 5-4 ruling yesterday gave Obama an election-year
triumph by declaring that Congress had the power to make
Americans obtain insurance or pay a penalty. That requirement is
at the center of the measure and of a political debate over the
appropriate role of government in health care that showed no
signs of abating with the court’s decision.  Republicans, including presidential candidate  Mitt Romney ,
vowed to redouble their efforts to repeal “Obamacare,” while
the president sought to portray the fight as over.  “The highest court in the land has now spoken,” he said
from the White House.  Briefs and oral arguments had focused primarily on whether
Congress overreached its authority to regulate interstate
commerce when it approved the insurance mandate as part of the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. Roberts, who wrote
the majority opinion, declared that it did and then upheld the
provision on the administration’s fallback argument: that the
penalty was within congressional power to tax.  It was the first time Roberts had joined with the court’s
four Democratic appointees in a 5-4 majority.  Limiting Medicaid  Along with the mandate and its accompanying penalty, the
court left intact features that force insurers to cover people
with pre-existing medical conditions, keep adult children on
their parents’ health plans until age 26 and remove lifetime
caps from policies. The justices limited the law’s extension of
the Medicaid program for the poor by saying the federal
government can’t threaten to withhold existing funds from states
that don’t fully comply.  Speculation before the decision had focused on Justice
 Anthony Kennedy  as the likely deciding vote on a court divided
between four Democratic appointees and five justices named by
Republican presidents, including Roberts.  “Justice Kennedy is the axis around which the court spins
in a case like this,” Tom Goldstein, an appellate lawyer, said
two weeks ago. Goldstein’s Scotusblog website is sponsored by
Bloomberg Law.  Barry Friedman, a New York University Law professor, said
he was surprised that Kennedy wound up in the minority. “To the
extent they were going to uphold the law, I always believed the
chief justice would be a vote to do so,” Friedman said. “But I
thought Justice Kennedy would also be in that group.”  Focus on Commerce  The administration’s legal brief in support of the law
devoted three times as much space to discussing the commerce
power as it did to the tax issue. Yet it was the secondary
argument that carried the day.  While the federal government “does not have the power to
order people to buy health insurance,” Roberts wrote, “the
federal government does have the power to impose a tax on those
without health insurance.” The law “is therefore
constitutional because it can reasonably be read as a tax.”  Roberts said that, for most Americans, the amount of the
penalty will be far less than the cost of insurance.  “It may often be a reasonable financial decision to make
the payment rather than purchase insurance,” he wrote.
“Although the payment will raise considerable revenue, it is
plainly designed to expand health-insurance coverage. But taxes
that seek to influence conduct are nothing new.”  Republican Ammunition  That line of reasoning gave Republicans what they portrayed
as a powerful new argument against the health plan: that it is a
tax increase.  “Now we will let the American people decide if they want
this huge tax burden,” said Representative  Joe Walsh , of
Illinois, one of 87 Republican freshmen elected in 2010.  “The president’s health-care law is hurting our economy by
driving up health costs and making it harder for small
businesses to hire,” House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio
Republican, said in a statement.  Obama pledged, “We will continue to implement this law”
and search for improvements. “What we won’t do, and what the
country can’t afford to do, is re-fight the political battles of
two years ago or go back to the way things were,” he said in
his televised statement.  Republicans vowed to do just that, with House leaders
saying they would hold a vote to repeal the act on July 11,
though there’s no chance they can succeed as long as Democrats
control the Senate and the president is there to veto a bill.  Romney Threat  Romney said he would make overturning the law a top
priority in the White House.  “What the court did not do on its last day in session, I
will do on my first day if elected president of the United
States. And that is: I will act to repeal Obamacare,” Romney
said in Washington.  Obama’s health-care law “puts the federal government
between you and your doctor,” Romney told reporters. Though he
pushed through a similar plan when he was Massachusetts
governor, he has said such a law isn’t wise nationally.  In a USAToday/Gallup  poll  yesterday, 46 percent agreed with
the court’s ruling and 46 percent disagreed. With 79 percent of
Democrats supporting the decision and 83 percent of Republicans
opposing it, independent voters split 45 percent in favor and 42
percent against the decision. The survey had a 4 percentage-
point error margin.  Longest Arguments  For a moment, Obama, waiting with every other American for
the momentous decision, thought he had lost. He saw an
inaccurate television report that the law had been struck down.
A staff member quickly relayed word that it had been upheld,
said an administration official who asked for anonymity to
describe the private meeting.  The decision on the law is the climax to a legal fight that
featured the longest high court arguments in 44 years, a record
number of briefs and extraordinary public interest in a Supreme
Court case. The case tested both the constitutional powers of
Congress and the willingness of the Roberts court to overrule
the other two branches of the federal government.  Republican-appointed Justices Kennedy,  Antonin Scalia ,
 Clarence Thomas  and  Samuel Alito  dissented, saying they would
have struck down the entire statute.  ‘Liberty at Peril’  “The fragmentation of power produced by the structure of
our government is central to liberty, and when we destroy it, we
place liberty at peril,” the dissenters wrote. “Today’s
decision should have vindicated, should have taught, this truth;
instead, our judgment today has disregarded it.”  Among the majority, Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg and  Sonia Sotomayor  voted to uphold the entire statute. Justices Stephen Breyer and Elena Kagan agreed with Roberts in limiting the
Medicaid expansion.  Kennedy and Ginsburg each took the unusual step of reading
a summary of their opinion from the bench. All told, the
justices took more than an hour to announce the ruling before a
packed courtroom that included members of Congress, retired
Justice  John Paul Stevens  and Solicitor General Donald Verrilli,
the Obama administration lawyer whose defense of the law drew
criticism.  The dispute marked the first time the Supreme Court had
considered a president’s defining legislative accomplishment in
the middle of his re-election campaign. The court hadn’t taken
up a law of comparable scope since the justices overturned part
of the National Industrial Recovery Act in 1935 during President
 Franklin Roosevelt ’s New Deal.  Biggest Change  The law represents the biggest change to the U.S. health
system since Medicare and Medicaid were established in 1965. It
was designed to expand coverage to at least 30 million people --
primarily by expanding Medicaid and setting up online markets
where consumers could buy insurance -- while controlling the
soaring costs of health care.  The law was challenged by 26 Republican-controlled states
and a small-business trade group. They contended the measure
exceeded Congress’s constitutional powers to regulate interstate
commerce and impose taxes.  The challenge focused on the insurance mandate, which
requires Americans to get coverage by 2014 or pay a penalty. The
concept was championed by Republicans years ago as an
alternative to Democratic proposals for a single government-run
health system.  The ruling will shape Roberts’s legacy as much as Obama’s.
The 57-year-old chief justice -- whose 2005 nomination Obama
opposed as a senator -- has been a leader of the court’s
conservative wing on other issues.  Withholding Funds  The Medicaid expansion was designed to extend eligibility
to those with incomes up to 133 percent of the federal poverty
line. States that didn’t comply with the new expansion would
have lost all or part of their federal Medicaid funds.  Roberts said Congress can require states to meet conditions
to receive new Medicaid money, though it can’t take away
existing funding. He said Medicaid spending accounts for more
than 20 percent of the average state’s total budget, with the
federal government covering at least half those costs.  “The financial ‘inducement’ Congress has chosen is much
more than ‘relatively mild encouragement’ -- it is a gun to the
head,” Roberts wrote. “What Congress is not free to do is to
penalize states that choose not to participate in that new
program by taking away their existing Medicaid funding.”  Industry Uncertainty  The ruling removes some of the uncertainty the health
industry had faced about the future of government policy. By
upholding the individual mandate, the court left intact a
provision that will give insurers such as  UnitedHealth Group
Inc. (UNH)  millions of relatively healthy, low-cost policyholders.  Other parts of the law will help the drug industry,
including the Medicaid expansion and the system of online
insurance markets that will make it easier for people to buy
policies. Hospitals also may benefit, as will insurers that
focus on managing states’ Medicaid programs, including
 Amerigroup Corp. (AGP)  and  Centene Corp. (CNC)   Hospital companies led by  HCA Holdings Inc. (HCA)  jumped in New
York trading yesterday, and Medicaid insurers paced by  Molina
Healthcare Inc. (MOH)  rose. Commercial carriers such as  WellPoint Inc. (WLP) 
fell in the face of the law’s new regulations. Today, HCA, the
biggest U.S. hospital chain, rose 3.3 percent to $30.43 at the
close of New York trading.  Tenet Healthcare Corp. (THC) , the third-biggest chain, closed
today with 0.2 percent decline after gaining 5.4 percent
yesterday. Long Beach, California-based Molina rose 1.3 percent.
Indianapolis-based WellPoint, the second-largest U.S. health
insurer, fell 3.2 percent to close at $63.79.  Prescription Drugs  Some parts of the law have already gone into effect,
including provisions that close a gap in prescription-drug
coverage under Medicare, allow 2.5 million young adults to stay
on their parents’ insurance until age 26, and provide free
mammograms, colonoscopies and flu shots.  The health-care measure’s enactment in March 2010 marked
the culmination of decades of efforts by Democrats and
Republicans alike to put in place a universal health-care
program. For Obama, congressional approval marked a victory that
had eluded presidents from  Harry Truman  to  Bill Clinton .  Passage in the Democratic-controlled Congress came only
after months of lobbying, deal-making and parliamentary
maneuvering. In the end, not a single Republican voted in favor
of the law.  From the beginning, the law divided the public, with
opposition fueling the Tea Party movement and helping produce
the 2010 Republican takeover of the House.  An Associated Press-GfK Poll taken before the Supreme Court
vote showed that 47 percent of respondents opposed the health-
care law and 33 percent supported it, with only 21 percent of
political independents backing the measure. The survey of 1,007
adults, taken June 14-18, had a margin of error of plus or minus
4 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  