-- Hodgson, Mears Retire From England Rugby; Farrell Rejoins Staff
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-06-28T15:30:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/hodgson-mears-retire-from-england-rugby-farrell-rejoins-staff.html
England ’s Charlie Hodgson and Lee
Mears retired from international rugby, while Andy Farrell
returned to the coaching staff, the  Rugby Football Union  said.  Saracens fly-half Hodgson and Bath hooker Mears combined to
make 80 appearances for England. The two met with coach  Stuart Lancaster  during England’s tour of South Africa earlier this
month and all agreed the team needed to go with younger players
in the lead-up to the 2015  World Cup  on home soil.  “I had chats with both of them in South Africa and our
thoughts were not too dissimilar -- that if we are building a
team for 2015 then, just as we did in January, we have to decide
on which players will take us forward and be in the mix in three
years’ time,” Lancaster said in a  statement .  Hodgson, 31, played 38 times for England, scoring a
national record 44 points in his debut against Romania in 2001.
He missed both the 2003 and 2007 World Cups with injury, but was
part of the British and Irish Lions’ tour of  New Zealand  in
2005.  Mears, 33, had 42 England appearances since 2005, including
at last year’s World Cup in New Zealand. He was selected for the
Lions’ tour of  South Africa  in 2009.  Farrell rejoins the coaching staff on a 3 1/2-year
contract, which will include the  Rugby World Cup . He was part of
Lancaster’s interim team for this year’s Six Nations
championship, in which England came second. Lancaster has since
been appointed full-time.  The 37-year-old Farrell joins from Saracens, who had
released him for the earlier spell with England.  “I loved every minute of coaching England and working with
Stuart and Graham Rowntree and this group of players in the Six
Nations and to get the opportunity to do it permanently is a
dream,” Farrell said in a statement. “I have watched England
in South Africa and I am massively excited about the potential
that was clearly evident.”  England lost two Tests in South Africa and drew the last
one 14-14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 