-- Modric Transfer Request to Spark United, Madrid Tussle: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-06-28T09:50:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/modric-transfer-request-to-spark-united-madrid-tussle-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Transfer Request  Luka Modric’s plan to submit a written transfer request to
Tottenham Hotspur in the next week will trigger a tussle between
 Manchester United  and Real Madrid, the  Sun reported .  The Croatian midfielder’s agent has already held talks with
Madrid and said a proposition will be made to Spurs in the next
few days, the newspaper added. United is keen on an all-cash
trade, while the Spanish champion prefers a cash-plus-players
transfer, the Sun said.  Modric Makeweight  Madrid manager  Jose Mourinho  is ready to offer Turkey
midfielder Nuri Sahin as part of a 30 million-pound ($46.8
million) package for Modric, the  Daily Mail reported .  Spurs value Modric at 40 million pounds, though are
unlikely to receive an offer as high as that, the Mail added.  Collision Course?  Manchester City manager  Roberto Mancini  may be on a
collision course with his bosses after demanding that the club
make Arsenal’s Robin van Persie its transfer priority, the  Daily
Mirror reported .  City must sell before buying and has made strikers Emmanuel Adebayor,  Carlos Tevez , Roque Santa Cruz and Edin Dzeko
available, the newspaper added.  Silva’s Contract  City has opened talks with midfielder  David Silva , who has
two years remaining on his contract, about an improved deal
after he indicated he wants to stay with the Premier League
champion, the  Mail reported .  Reading’s Russian  Reading beat competition from Fulham,  Aston Villa  and West
Ham to sign Russia striker Pavel Pogrebnyak, the  Sun reported .  Pogrebnyak, 28, has agreed a four-year contract with the
Royals and is awaiting a work permit before completing his free
transfer from Stuttgart, the newspaper said.  Butland Bid  Birmingham rejected Southampton’s 6 million-pound bid for
teenage goalkeeper Jack Butland, who is yet to make a first-team
appearance for the Blues, the  Mirror reported .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  