-- Hog-Herd Expansion Signaling Losses After Corn Surge Boosts Cost
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-06-28T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/hog-herd-expansion-signaling-losses-after-corn-surge-boosts-cost.html
Hog farmers in the U.S. probably
expanded their breeding herds as feed costs tumbled through the
end of May, just before a Midwest drought sparked a corn-price
rally this month that was the biggest since April 2011.  About 5.854 million sows were being held back for breeding
as of June 1, up 0.9 percent from 5.803 million a year earlier,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of 10 analysts. The  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  will  release  its quarterly estimate of
hog inventories at 3 p.m. tomorrow in  Washington  based on a
survey of producers in the first half of June.  Producers expanded as corn futures plunged to a 20-month
low June 15 and the U.S. predicted a record crop. Since then,
the worst Midwest drought in more than a decade is wilting
fields two months before the harvest and sent prices up as much
as 30 percent. That may change per-hog profit of $11 this month
into a $9 loss by September, said commodity broker Allendale Inc.  “I would say the biggest factor behind growth is the
expectation of a record corn harvest and lower prices come
fall,” said  Ron Plain , a livestock economist at the  University
of Missouri  in Columbia who has studied the industry for three
decades. “Of course, that looks less likely with each passing
day.”  At the start of this year, hog producers expected profit of
as much as $20 per head this summer as costs fell, according to
McHenry, Illinois-based Allendale. Corn tumbled as much as 22
percent this year to a low of $5.0675 a bushel in  Chicago  on
June 15. The grain rose to $6.33 yesterday, capping a four-day
rally of 15 percent that was the biggest since April 2011. The
increase “certainly” changes the expansion outlook for hog
farmers, said  Rich Nelson , Allendale’s director of research.  Losses Expected  While producers should earn about $10.84 per head in the
three months through August, the higher feed costs will mean
average losses of $9.41 a head for September through November,
Nelson said.  Areas of  Indiana ,  Illinois , eastern  Iowa  and  Missouri  have
had less than half of normal rainfall in the past 30 days,
National Weather Service data show. About 71 percent of the
Midwest had abnormally dry soil to extreme drought on June 19,
the worst in more than a decade and up from 1 percent a year
earlier, according to the University of  Nebraska  at Lincoln.  Corn-crop  conditions  on June 24 were the worst for that
date since 1988, according to the USDA. While the agency’s
forecast on June 12 was for a 20 percent rise in U.S. production
this year to a record 14.79 billion bushels, dry weather across
the main growing region comes as plants begin to pollinate.
That’s the most vulnerable period in the growing cycle,  Dennis Gartman , the author of the Suffolk, Virginia-based Gartman
Letter, wrote on June 26.  Hog Rally  Hog futures climbed 3 percent yesterday to 91.7 cents a
pound on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, the biggest gain this
month. Prices are up 8.8 percent this year, the most after
soybeans and wheat on the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of
24 commodities, which has slumped 11 percent. The MSCI All-
Country World Index of equities is up 1.4 percent. Treasuries
have returned 1.9 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Any expansion in sow production is bearish for prices, said
Victor Aideyan, a senior risk-management consultant with
HISGRAIIN Commodities Inc. in  London , Ontario, who forecast an
increase of 2.53 percent in the breeding herd in the three
months through June 1.  “I scratch my head and wonder why people would be thinking
expansion, but it looks as if it’s happening,” Aideyan said in
a telephone interview. “If we end up with 2 percent more hogs
this winter, I think we could overwhelm the packing capacity.”  Bigger Herd  The overall hog herd totaled 66.283 million head as of June
1, according to the Bloomberg survey, up 1.5 from a year
earlier. The inventory of swine to be sold for slaughter, so-
called market hogs, probably increased 1.5 percent to 60.429
million, analysts said.  U.S. pork production may be 23.385 billion pounds (10.6
million metric tons) this year, a 2.7 percent increase from a
year earlier, and output in 2013 is forecast at 23.872 billion
pounds, a 2.1 percent gain, the USDA said in a  report  on June
12.  Heavier animals also are adding to supplies. Hog  carcasses 
weighed on average 204.85 pounds (92.9 kilograms) on June 26, up
0.6 percent from a year earlier. Weights reached 210.55 pounds
on June 1, the heaviest since May 11, USDA data show.  Producers without hedging strategies lost about $11.24 for
each animal sold in May, said Plain, citing  data  from  Iowa State
University  in Ames. That compares with profits of $11.73 in the
year-earlier period, the university’s data shows.  Hedged Risks  Producers using risk management over the last six months
had opportunities to make money, and there was “some solid
profitability” in the industry for long enough that some
farmers were able to add more sows,  Don Roose , the president of
U.S. Commodities Inc. in  West Des Moines , Iowa, said in a
telephone interview.  Bill Tentinger, who markets about 10,000 pigs a year in
northwest Iowa, said in a telephone interview that he started
hearing from producers on the night of June 26 and yesterday
morning that if the corn price continues to climb, there will
“definitely not” be expansion. Some might consider retiring,
selling their business or liquidating herds, he said.  Tomorrow’s report needs to be taken “with a little grain
of salt” because corn has rallied so much since producers were
surveyed, Tentinger said. Collection of survey data from
producers started on May 31 and ended on June 19, according to
Dan Kerestes, the chief of the livestock branch at USDA’s
 National Agricultural Statistics Service  in Washington. Corn
prices rallied 12 percent from June 19 through yesterday.  “A lot of producers anticipated that we were going to
produce a really good corn crop, and finally the prices were
going to start coming down to where a livestock producer could
work with some decent margins,” Tentinger said. “I think
Mother Nature is proving us wrong.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 