-- Oil Drops to Eight-Month Low on U.S., German Unemployment
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-06-28T20:23:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/oil-fluctuates-on-u-s-economic-growth-rate.html
Oil fell to an eight-month low as
unemployment data from the U.S. and Germany spurred concern
about the economic recovery as European Union leaders met to
address the debt crisis.  Prices dropped 3.1 percent after the Labor Department
reported U.S. applications for  unemployment benefits  hovered
near the highest level of 2012 last week and the prior reading
was revised up. German unemployment rose more than economists
forecast in June. Oil also fell as the Supreme Court upheld the
core of President  Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul.  “The jobless claims number was clearly a negative for the
market and obviously the revision to the prior week was very
disturbing,” said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC,
a New York-based hedge fund that focuses on energy. “This
market is extremely nervous about the EU summit.”  Crude for August delivery declined $2.52 to $77.69 a barrel
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest settlement since
October. Futures have fallen 25 percent this quarter, heading
for the biggest drop since the final three months of 2008.  Brent oil for August settlement decreased $2.14, or 2.3
percent, to $91.36 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
 Europe  exchange. It has retreated 26 percent since March 30.  Brent is set to recover from its worst quarter since 2008
as a European Union ban on Iranian oil takes effect, central
banks act to protect growth and on speculation OPEC will curb
some of its excess supply.  U.S. Economy  U.S. jobless claims declined by 6,000 to 386,000 in the
week ended June 23. The prior week’s reading was revised up to
392,000 from 387,000, matching an April figure as the steepest
of 2012. The number of people out of work in Germany rose a
seasonally adjusted 7,000 to 2.88 million, the Nuremberg-based
Federal Labor Agency said today.  “The economic recovery’s kind of stalled here in the
U.S.,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition
Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “It doesn’t seem that our
economic problems are really gone.”  The  U.S. economy  grew 1.9 percent in the first quarter,
reflecting a gain in  consumer spending  that now shows signs of
cooling as the labor market weakens, Commerce Department figures
showed today. The government’s gross domestic product estimate
is the third and final for the first quarter and follows a 3
percent increase in the prior quarter.  Crude also retreated as equities snapped a two-day rally in
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index as European leaders began the
meeting on the region’s debt crisis and JPMorgan Chase & Co.
tumbled on a report that the lender’s trading losses from  credit
derivatives  may total as much as $9 billion.  The  S&P 500  and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  each
dropped 0.2 percent. They were down as much as 1.4 percent in
intraday trading.  European Summit  EU leaders focused on immediate help for Spain and Italy at
the start of a two-day summit in Brussels to address their
financial crisis.  The 27 EU government chiefs will discuss buying Spanish and
Italian government bonds to bring down borrowing costs that are
near euro-area records at the summit, Finnish Prime Minister
 Jyrki Katainen  said.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has rejected calls to
investigate joint debt or do more to cut Spanish and Italian
borrowing costs and said her focus will be on measures to boost
economic growth.  “The market is waiting to see what the Europeans are going
to do,” McGillian said. Spain and Italy “are the dark clouds
on the horizon right now.”  Economic confidence  in the euro area slumped to the lowest
level in more than 2 1/2 years in June, reports showed today,
before the summit began.  ‘Bearish’ Fundamentals  “The economic numbers are not turning around to show
anything good and the problems in Europe are not getting
better,” said Tariq Zahir, a New York-based commodity fund
manager at Tyche Capital Advisors. “The fundamentals are still
bearish for oil.”  Oil consumption in Europe will decline both this year and
next, and slower growth in China may also curb demand, the U.S.
Energy Department said June 12 in its Short-Term Energy Outlook.
Oil demand in the U.S., the world’s largest consumer, will drop
for a second year in 2012, the department said.  Crude also fell as the  Supreme Court , in a 5-4 decision,
said Congress has the power to make Americans carry insurance or
pay a penalty and as the U.S. granted China and Singapore
exemptions from financial sanctions related to Iranian oil
imports.  The health-care ruling is being “viewed in the market as
an anti-growth story, which is helping to pressure energy,”
Kilduff said.  Iran Sanctions  U.S. financial sanctions related to Iranian oil imports go
into effect today on any petroleum-related purchase through
Iran’s central bank. China and Singapore have “significantly
reduced” their purchases of Iranian oil, winning exemptions
from the sanctions, Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  announced
today in an e-mailed statement.  The EU, Iran’s biggest buyer after China, is due to stop
importing the Islamic republic’s oil July 1. The sanctions are
designed to pressure Iran to halt its nuclear program.  Iranian oil production  fell 50,000 barrels a day to 3.225
million in May, the lowest level since June 1992, according to a
Bloomberg survey of  oil companies , producers and analysts. The
other members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries made up for the Iranian loss, with output from the
entire group rising 20,000 barrels to 31.595 million last month.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 534,204
contracts as of 4:23 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 468,779
contracts yesterday, 16 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.43 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  