-- Oil Rises From Nine-Month Low on Supply, Europe Measures
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-06-29T12:45:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/oil-rises-from-nine-month-low-on-european-summit-iran.html
Oil rebounded from the lowest close
in almost nine months in  New York  on speculation that European
measures aimed at fighting the region’s debt crisis will spur
demand for fuel.  Crude posted its steepest intraday gain in eight months,
increasing as much as 4.5 percent and trimming the biggest
quarterly decline since the final three months of 2008. Oil
gained after euro-area leaders agreed to relax conditions on
emergency loans for Spanish banks and possible help for  Italy .
Prices may advance after the European Union’s ban on the
purchase, transport, financing and insurance of Iranian crude
starts on July 1, a Bloomberg survey showed. Norway’s first
industrywide energy strike since 2004 is in its sixth day.  “Eased liquidity is good for the oil price and that is the
key influence right now,” Torbjoern Kjus, an oil analyst at  DnB
ASA (DNB) , said by phone from Oslo. Tightening sanctions on Iran are a
“wildcard,” he said.  Oil for August delivery increased as much as $3.50 to
$81.19 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $81.02 at 1:41 p.m. London time. The
contract yesterday plunged $2.52, or 3.1 percent, to $77.69, the
lowest close since Oct. 4. Prices are down 18 percent this year
and have dropped 21 percent this quarter.  Brent oil for August settlement rose $3.45, or 3.8 percent,
to $94.81 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe 
exchange. Prices are down 23 percent since March 31, also the
biggest decline since the final quarter of 2008. The European
benchmark’s premium to West Texas Intermediate was at $13.79,
compared with $13.67 yesterday.  EU Bank Financing  Oil extended gains after EU President  Herman Van Rompuy 
said European leaders at a summit in Brussels agreed to drop the
condition that emergency loans to Spanish banks give their
governments preferred creditor status. Banks can also be
recapitalized directly with funds rather than going through
governments and leaders discussed ways to reduce the risk
premiums on Italian and Spanish bonds, he said.  Sixteen of 42 analysts, or 38 percent surveyed by Bloomberg
News, forecast New York crude will increase through July 6.
Fourteen predicted that futures will decline and 12 said there
will be little change in prices.  Oil may rebound to as high as $90 a barrel if prices hold
above a support level near $75, according to technical analysis
by Rich Ilczyszyn, chief market strategist and founder of
Iitrader.com in  Chicago .  Iran ’s daily exports will fall by 1 million barrels in the
second half of this year because of sanctions, the International
Energy Agency estimates. The U.S. and Europe suspect the Persian
Gulf country’s nuclear program involves weapons development. The
Tehran government says it is enriching uranium for civilian and
medical purposes.  China Exemption  Exports from Iran will “gradually” fall amid maintenance
on fields and reservoirs starting next week, Deputy Oil Minister
Ahmad Ghalebani said June 26 at an energy conference in Moscow.
Shipments may decline by 20 percent to 30 percent, said
Ghalebani, who is also head of National Iranian Oil Co.  Iran’s output was 3.23 million barrels a day in May, the
lowest level since June 1992, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Saudi Arabia  is the biggest shipper of crude in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.  Under a U.S. law enacted Dec. 31, financial institutions
may be cut off from the country’s financial system if they
settle oil trades with Iran’s central bank.  “We’re about to begin the Iranian oil embargo so we’ll
start to get a look over time about what the impacts of that are
going to be,” said Ric Spooner, a chief market analyst at CMC
Markets in Sydney. “It’s going to take supply off the market,
but the question is to what extent that draws down inventories
and affects excess capacity.”  Norway Strike  Norway’s strike shut production of about 15 percent of the
crude supply from western Europe’s largest exporter. The
country’s oil and gas unions will maintain their strike at the
existing level, Leif Sande, president of Industry Energy, the
biggest of the unions, said from Stavanger after a meeting of
the three unions involved.  The meeting was aimed at deciding whether to expand the
 strike action  that is currently halting about 250,000 barrels of
oil a day, as well as some gas output.  Gasoline for July delivery rose 0.8 percent to $2.6342 a
gallon on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Prices have fallen
22 percent this quarter.  Regular gasoline at the  pump , averaged nationwide, slid 0.4
cents to $3.369 a gallon on June 27, according to Heathrow,
Florida-based AAA, the largest U.S. motoring group. Prices have
dropped 14 percent this quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  