-- Okada Request for Wynn Resorts Records Delayed by Judge
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   V a l e r i e   M i l l e r
-- 2012-06-28T21:59:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/okada-request-for-wynn-resort-records-delayed-by-judge.html
Kazuo Okada’s renewed request for
 Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN) ’s books and records was delayed by a Nevada
state court judge until the casino operator’s lawyers have a
chance to question the Japanese billionaire about his request.  Clark County District Judge Elizabeth Gonzalez postponed a
ruling on Okada’s request at a hearing today in  Las Vegas . She
agreed with Wynn Resorts’ attorneys that the limited deposition
of Okada was necessary to determine if he had a “proper
purpose” for requesting Wynn records and books from as far back
as 10 years ago.  “This is a victory because she granted the request we
made, but this is a little step along the way,” Kim Sinatra,
Wynn Resorts’ general counsel, said after the hearing.  Okada, whom the company seeks to remove from its board of
directors, held the largest single stake in Wynn Resorts through
his Tokyo-based  Universal Entertainment Corp. (6425)  until February.
Then, in an escalating battle with Chief Executive Officer
 Stephen Wynn , his 20 percent stake in Wynn Resorts was forcibly
redeemed because, the company said, he was “unsuitable.”  Okada sought a court order in January that, as a director,
he was entitled to inspect Wynn Resorts’ books and records
regarding its $130 million pledge last year to the University of
 Macau , which Okada says he opposed. Gonzalez in March ordered
Wynn Resorts to produce only two more pages of documents to
Okada.  Macau Contacts  In his renewed request, Okada seeks documents from 2000
through 2002 regarding entertainment of and contacts with Macau
government officials, as well as documents explaining the
company’s use of $120 million he invested in 2002. Wynn Resorts
has argued Okada is using the petition to find evidence to fight
a separate lawsuit Wynn Resorts brought against him.  The judge said she would consider Okada’s lawyers’ request
to let the deposition take place in  Hong Kong , where Okada now
lives, rather than in Las Vegas, as Wynn Resorts’ lawyers had
asked.  “Mr. Okada is studying the ruling and evaluating all of
his options,” Steve Getzug, a spokesman for Aruze USA Inc.,
Okada’s holding company, said in an e-mailed statement.  Manila Development  Wynn Resorts sued Okada on Feb. 19, saying he breached his
fiduciary duty by making improper payments to gaming regulators
in the Philippines. Okada is developing two casinos and three
hotels in  Manila  and seeks to lure “high-limit, VIP gamblers”
from  China  in direct competition with Wynn’s casino in Macau,
according to the complaint.  The company said in a statement that day that an
investigation found that Okada appeared to have paid $110,000 to
gaming regulators in the  Philippines  in violation of U.S. anti-
corruption laws. The alleged violations, the company said, made
Okada “unsuitable” because they might threaten Wynn Resorts’
Nevada gaming license.  A federal judge on June 21 sent Wynn Resorts’ lawsuit
against Okada back to state court over Okada’s objections.
Gonzalez at today’s hearing said she wouldn’t consolidate the
two cases. If similar issues arise in both cases, they can be
heard at the same time, the judge said.  In March, Okada had Wynn Resorts’ lawsuit removed to
federal court, arguing that the underlying issue was whether he
had violated U.S. law by allegedly making improper payments to
foreign officials.  The case is Okada v. Wynn Resorts, A-12-654522-B, District
Court, Clark County Nevada (Las Vegas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net ;
Valerie Miller in Las Vegas at  valeriemusicmagic@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 