-- Holder Contempt Vote to Proceed in U.S. House Without Talks
-- B y   S e t h   S t e r n   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-06-28T18:49:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/holder-contempt-vote-to-proceed-in-u-s-house-without-talks.html
The U.S. House moved toward the
first vote in history to hold a sitting Cabinet officer in
contempt of Congress as it began debate on citing Attorney
General Eric Holder for his refusal to provide documents related
to a federal gun operation.  California Republican  Darrell Issa , the chairman of the
House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, said no
negotiations were planned before this afternoon’s scheduled
vote, the first time a sitting Cabinet member would be held in
contempt by either chamber of Congress.  The contempt vote would escalate a standoff that began last
year between President  Barack Obama ’s administration and
Republican lawmakers over Fast and Furious, which allowed
illegal gun purchases in the U.S. in an effort to link the
weapons to Mexican drug cartels.  The House is seeking documents describing internal  Justice
Department  discussions about a February 2011 letter to lawmakers
on Fast and Furious that Holder later said mistakenly contained
incorrect information. The documents sought by the panel cover
the 10-month period between the initial letter and a subsequent
one the Justice Department sent to correct the erroneous
statements.  “This is about holding people accountable,”
Representative Richard Nugent, a Florida Republican, said on the
House floor today.  Executive Privilege  Obama has asserted executive privilege over the documents
and declined to turn them over.  “What the Republicans are doing with the motion today is
contemptible,” House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi , a California
Democrat, told reporters today. “This is something that
makes a witch hunt look like a day at the beach” because it is
“based on a false premise” of a cover-up by the Justice
Department.  Pelosi said she supports plans of Congressional Black
Caucus members to walk off the floor to protest the vote yet she
“will stay long enough to vote ’No.’”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  