-- Oldest Pottery Fired 20,000 Years Ago, Findings From China Show
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-28T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/oldest-pottery-fired-20-000-years-ago-findings-from-china-show.html
Prehistoric people in  China  fired
the first pots 20,000 years ago at the peak of the last ice age,
a study shows, adding new evidence that ceramic containers were
invented before humans began farming 10,000 years later.  Carbon-dating by researchers from  Peking University  and
 Harvard University  of bones and charcoal fragments dug up
alongside ceramics at a cave in northern China’s Jiangxi
province found that these were 2,000 to 3,000 years older than
other pottery found in  East Asia  and elsewhere, according to a
study published in the journal  Science  today.  “The long-held view was pottery appeared around the same
period as agriculture and humans adopting settled lifestyles,”
said Wu Xiaohong of the School of Archaeology and Museology at
 Peking University , one of the paper’s authors. “This research
overturns that view.”  The invention of pottery brought a shift in human
subsistence practices and social behaviors, the researchers said
in the paper. As food resources were scarcer in the ice age and
humans used up more energy to generate heat, they may have used
ceramic containers to boil and extract fat from animal bones.  “Humans may have invented pottery to deal with the cold,”
Wu said in a telephone interview from Beijing, adding that her
group of researchers are seeking evidence to back up the theory.
“Another theory is that humans wanted to eat mollusks, such as
snails, and cooking in ceramic containers was the only way to
kill bacteria and make it safe to eat.”  Mollusk shells were uncovered around other excavation
sites, she said.  The earliest pottery may have played more of a social role
among humans, rather than as a “very important economic
technology,” said Gideon Shelach, the Louis Freiberg Professor
of East Asian studies at the  Hebrew University of Jerusalem , who
wrote a commentary accompanying the Science publication.  ‘Brewing Alcohol’  “My idea is that this was used more for social events, as
people were living more densely during the height of the glacial
age because less livable areas were available,” he said in a
telephone interview. “That meant there was more tension and
that required more feasting, so maybe cooking with pottery was
done for better food, and for brewing alcohol.”  Pottery found in East Asia predates agriculture, according
to the evidence found in China and  Japan . Artifacts found in the
 Middle East  postdate the transition to agriculture, which raises 
questions about the regional differences in the development of 
the two regions, Shelach said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  