-- Lombard Odier Says New Money Offsets Undeclared Outflows
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2012-06-29T10:43:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/lombard-odier-to-meet-target-as-swiss-banks-lure-spanish-funds.html
Lombard Odier & Cie., Geneva’s
oldest bank, is set to meet its target for net new money amid
concern about  Europe ’s debt crisis, said Bernard Droux, one of
eight partners with unlimited liability at the firm.  Client inflows will at least match last year’s 7.2 billion
Swiss francs ($7.4 billion), helping to maintain profitability,
Droux said in an interview in Solothurn, Switzerland. The bank
is targeting 7 billion to 8 billion francs, he said.  Geneva “is enjoying nice net new money everywhere, at
least in banks that are big enough to be known by foreigners,”
said Droux, who is also president of a group that promotes the
city as a financial center. Swiss banks are attracting inflows
from the  Middle East ,  Asia ,  South America  and  Spain , he said.  Lombard Odier, which had 142 billion francs of assets under
management at the end of last year, is bidding to attract new
business as a crackdown on  tax evasion  pushes American and
European customers to repatriate funds from offshore accounts.
While Swiss banks will lose some undeclared money, they are
luring money from rich foreigners concerned about the health of
lenders in Spain and other indebted countries, said Droux.  A lot of Spaniards “want their money to be deposited in
Switzerland even though they are fully declared people,” he
said, declining to estimate inflows. “As long as a bank is not
nationalized people are afraid of staying with the bank.”  There hasn’t been a significant influx of funds from  Greece 
during the crisis as wealthy Greeks already held their funds
outside the country and prefer  London , the Channel Islands and
Cyprus to  Switzerland , said Droux.  Undeclared Outflows  Droux expects Switzerland to see an outflow of undeclared
funds over the next two years.  “Sometime in 2013 or 2014 we will have a drop in assets
under management of something like 25 percent of the undeclared
money,” he said.  Switzerland has signed agreements with  Germany , the U.K.
and  Austria , which will impose a levy on assets held offshore in
the past and oblige banks to withhold tax on future income from
wealth held in Switzerland by non-residents.  As much of one-third of private wealth held in Switzerland
may be undeclared and at risk from foreign tax collectors as the
Swiss secrecy advantage erodes, Benedict Hentsch, chairman of
Geneva-based Banque Benedict Hentsch & Cie. SA, said this month.  Immediate Drain  That figure is probably too high, said Droux, adding that a
maximum 15 percent of client money at Lombard Odier and other
private banks is undeclared. He estimates that new taxes may
result in an immediate drain of 5 percent of client funds across
Swiss private banks as money is returned to the treasuries of
other countries.  “It’s very difficult to give exact numbers because clients
may have declared their money without us knowing,” he said.  Declining financial markets, a strong Swiss franc and
rising compliance costs also threaten wealth-management margins
in Switzerland, Droux said.  “We need growth just to maintain profitability,” he said.
“A lot of clients now will have to be addressed in their home
country and it is more expensive than before.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at   gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  