-- London to Get $9.4 Million Theater Near Buckingham Palace
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-06-28T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/london-to-get-9-4-million-new-theater-near-buckingham-palace.html
London is to get what is said to be
its first newly built theater in 30 years.  St. James Theatre , located steps away from  Buckingham
Palace , will have cost more than 6 million pounds ($9.3
million). The theater starts its maiden season in September with
a play written by comedienne and broadcaster Sandi Toksvig, its
managers announced today.  “Bully Boy,” about a young soldier in  Iraq  set to be
court-martialed in connection with the death of an Arab boy,
will be the inaugural show. The venue is on the spot of the
former Westminster Theatre, which was destroyed in a 2002 fire.  The St. James is being built by a group of developers as a
condition for their being granted planning permission for an
adjacent apartment complex. The theater’s managers,
Entertainment Theatres Ltd., will run the 312-seat auditorium
and a studio space for comedy and jazz, private and corporate
events, and the recording of broadcast-quality videos.  “It’s going to take 18 months for the theater to establish
itself,” said Robert Mackintosh, joint chief executive and
creative director, during a media tour last week.  Artistic Director David Gilmore said the new venue fell
into the same broad category as the  Trafalgar Studios , the
 Donmar Warehouse , the  Almeida  or the  Menier Chocolate Factory .  “Artistically, we are trying to find a path where we don’t
overlap with any of them,” he said, standing on the spot of the
St. James’s future stage.  Still partially a building site when shown to reporters
last week, the St. James Theatre will have a foyer with a marble
and oak finish, and a 20-ton marble staircase currently under
construction in  Italy . That will fulfill the planning-permission
requirement of having a designated public work of art.  A bar-brasserie in the foyer area will operate as an all-
day cafe, while a restaurant with 62 covers will offer quality
and preferably British-sourced food.  The theater’s subsequent productions are: “Daddy Long
Legs” (Oct. 31 to Dec. 8), “Cinderella” (Dec. 12, 2012 to
Jan. 26, 2013) and “Our Country’s Good” (Jan. 30 to March 9,
2013).  Tickets will cost 45 pounds at most during the season.  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on art market,  Robert
Heller  on rock music,  Jason Harper  on cars and  Rich Jaroslovsky 
on technology.  To contact the writer of this story:
Farah Nayeri in  London   at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 