-- Hong Kong Protest May Draw 100,000 as Hu Comes for Anniversary
-- B y   S i m o n   L e e
-- 2012-06-29T05:58:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/hong-kong-protest-may-draw-100-000-people-as-new-leader-sworn-in.html
Protesters will march through Hong
Kong on the 15th anniversary of the city’s return to  China  this
July 1, as Chinese President  Hu Jintao  presides over the
inauguration of the city’s new leader Leung Chun-ying.  As many as 100,000 people may join the march through the
city’s Central district to the government headquarters as Hu
attends the swearing in of former property surveyor Leung,
according to James Sung, a political scientist at the  City
University  of Hong Kong.  The worst  income gap  since records were kept in 1971, along
with close ties between government officials and tycoons, have
stoked public anger in the run-up to Hong Kong’s leadership
transition. Beijing’s effort to integrate the city’s economy
more closely with the mainland’s has also raised fears that Hong
Kong is losing its independence.  “People believe that the government hasn’t been able to do
anything” to help improve their lives, said  Joseph Cheng , a
professor of political science at the  City University of Hong
Kong . “That the government refuses to act because it has been
too eager to please the big businesses. This distrust has
spilled over to the new administration.”  Hu arrived in Hong Kong today and lauded the “major
achievements” since the former British colony was returned to
China in 1997. The Chinese president said he wants to tour the
city to understand residents’ lives and expectations.  Full Democracy  The annual protest is a gauge of public opinion in city,
which is governed by a chief executive picked by a panel
comprisig billionaires, lawmakers and professionals. Protesters
will call on Leung to introduce plans for full democracy in
2017, and seek an end to interference in  Hong Kong ’s domestic
affairs by the Chinese government, Eric Lai, a member of the
 Civil Human Rights Front , said in an interview.  Distrust of the Chinese government by the Hong Kong public
rose to the highest level since May 1997, according to a  poll 
conducted between June 4 and 12 by the University of Hong Kong.
The survey of 1,003 adults showed that 37 percent said they
didn’t trust Beijing.  “Leung has never made any promises on when will he start
reforms on democratization,” Lai said.  The demonstration highlights the challenges Leung faces in
balancing demands for greater economic integration with China
and maintaining independence for the city’s 7.1 million
residents. While China has promised universal suffrage for the
city by the end of Leung’s term in 2017, a detailed road map
hasn’t been drawn.  Human Rights  Concerns for  human rights  in China, stoked by the death of
dissident Li Wangyang and the treatment of blind activist  Chen Guangcheng , may spur more people to take part in the march, said
Lee Cheuk-yan, chairman of the Hong Kong-based Alliance in
Support of Patriotic Democratic Movements of China.  “As the relationship between China and Hong Kong gets
closer, if China’s political situation deteriorates, it is hard
to expect there will be improvements in Hong Kong,” Lee said.  Leung, 57, will be sworn in at the Hong Kong Convention and
Exhibition Center as the last leader picked by the panel after a
flag raising ceremony at 8 a.m., with Hu a guest of honor.
Protesters will start their march at 3 p.m.  The city will mark the handover anniversary with fireworks,
a performance by paratroopers from the  People’s Liberation Army ,
and a show with performances by celebrities including actor
 Jackie Chan .  Public Trust  Public trust in Hong Kong government officials has also
taken a knock this year with a  corruption probe  under way
involving former chief secretary Rafael Hui. Leung’s predecessor
 Donald Tsang  is under investigation for taking rides on planes
and yachts with tycoon friends.  Leung also faces criticism from some lawmakers after it was
found that a basement, a gate and other structures were built at
his house without permits. Leung has apologized and started
removing the illegal additions.  “Normally people have a bit of a honeymoon period after
their election,” said  Michael DeGolyer , a political scientist
at the Hong Kong Baptist University. “If this is the honeymoon,
wow, I think we’re going have a rocky marriage here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Lee in Hong Kong at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  