-- Hong Kong Stocks Swing Between Gain, Loss on Europe, U.S.
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   C r y s t a l   C h u i
-- 2012-06-28T04:38:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/hong-kong-stocks-swing-between-gain-loss-on-europe-u-s-.html
Hong Kong  stocks  swung between gains
and losses as optimism about positive U.S. economic reports was
overshadowed by disagreements among European leaders ahead of a
summit on the region’s debt crisis today.  China Shipping Container Lines Co. (2866) , which gets about 23
percent of revenue from Europe, slipped 1.1 percent.  Techtronic
Industries Co. (669) , a maker of Ryobi power tools that counts  North
America  as its biggest market, rose for a fourth day, adding 1.5
percent. Luk Fook Holdings International Ltd. climbed 2.1
percent after the jewelry retailer posted higher full-year
earnings.  The Hang Seng Index added 0.2 percent to 19,213.03 as of
the midday trading break in Hong Kong, having swung between
gains of as much as 0.7 percent and losses of 0.2 percent. The
measure retreated about 11 percent from this year’s high in
February through yesterday amid concern that growth in the U.S.
and China is slowing, and as Europe’s debt crisis spread.  “Market sentiment is still very poor,” said Lewis Wan,
chief investment officer at Pride Investments Group Ltd. in Hong
Kong. “There’s a lack of confidence ahead of the European
summit.”  Stocks in the city climbed yesterday after China announced
plans to increase integration between Hong Kong and mainland
Chinese markets ahead of a visit to the city by President Hu
Jintao this weekend. July 1 marks the 15th anniversary of Hong
Kong’s reversion to Chinese rule.  Europe’s leaders will meet today in Brussels. There’s been
a breakdown in consensus on how to safeguard the governments of
Spain and Italy from surging borrowing costs. German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  is increasingly isolated as French President
 Francois Hollande , Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  and
Spanish Premier Mariano Rajoy unite to push for quicker action.  Chinese Manufacturing  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies
listed in Hong Kong lost 0.4 to 9,419.73. Economic data this
weekend may show China’s manufacturing is contracting. The
Purchasing Managers’ Index compiled by the statistics bureau and
logistics federation may drop to 49.8 this month, falling below
the dividing line of 50 for expansion and contraction, according
to the median estimate of 19 economists in a Bloomberg survey.
The figure is due July 1.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose less than
0.1 percent today. The stock gauge gained 0.9 percent in New
York yesterday as orders for durable goods and the number of
Americans signing contracts to buy an existing home rebounded in
May.  Losses on the  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  dragged the  value  of stocks
in the gauge to 9.9 times estimated earnings on average as of
yesterday, compared with 12.8 times for the  S&P 500  and 10.3
times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index  Futures on Hong Kong’s benchmark stock index expiring this
month gained 0.3 percent to 19,214. The  HSI Volatility Index (VHSI) 
added 0.1 percent to 21.07, indicating options traders expect a
swing of about 6 percent on the gauge during the next 30 days.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Crystal Chui in Hong Kong at 
 tchui4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  