-- Mongolia Mining Bets China Will Double Coal Imports
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2012-07-05T07:44:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/mongolian-mining-bets-china-will-double-coal-imports.html
(Corrects company’s name in headline and first paragraph
in story published June 29.)  Mongolian Mining Corp. (975)  is betting
there’s enough demand from China to support the construction of
an $800 million railway that will double export capacity to the
nation that counts Mongolia as its biggest coal supplier.  Expanding transportation links between the adjacent
countries “will improve the position of Mongolia as the leading
coking coal supplier to China,” Battsengel Gotov, chief
executive officer of MMC, as the company is known, told
reporters in the Mongolian capital of Ulan Bator.  Mongolia, the world’s fastest growing economy, overtook
 Australia  as China’s biggest coking coal supplier last year,
exporting 20 million metric tons of the raw material used to
make steel. MMC is building a 250 kilometer (155 mile) rail to
add 30 million tons of export capacity direct to  China .  “There’s still room for everybody in Mongolia” to mine
and sell commodities, Gotov said from the company’s head office.  MMC shares  rose 3.6 percent to close at HK$4.36 in Hong
Kong compared with a 2.2 percent gain in the benchmark  Hang Seng 
index. The stock has dropped 25 percent this year as coal prices
declined.  Chinese demand has been curbed by slower global growth and
coking coal prices have fallen as much as 15 percent in the
first half from the previous six months, Gotov said.  Prices, which fell to $206 a metric ton in the quarter
ending June 30, may rebound to an average $225 a ton this
financial year, based on the mean estimate of 10 analysts,
steelmakers and mining companies surveyed by Bloomberg in April.
 Anglo American Plc (AAL)  settled coking coal prices at $225 a ton for
the third quarter.  Boosting Output  MMC plans to boost output by about 41 percent to 10 million
tons this year from its Ukhaa Khudag mine at the Tavan Tolgoi
deposit and then to 15 million tons in 2013. It will use about
half the export capacity of its planned railway and will lease
the rest to mining companies, Gotov said. Mongolia will assume
51 percent ownership of the rail after 19 years.  The rail, due for completion in 2015, will halve the time
it takes to transport coal by road from Tavan Tolgoi to China to
between two hours and three hours, he said.  Mongolian Elections  Mongolians, a third of who live below the poverty line in a
nation of 3.1 million people, went to the polls yesterday. The
opposition  Democratic Party  is leading after early counting
though no party has a clear majority, President Tsakhia Elbegdorj said in an interview today.  State-owned miner Erdenes Tavan Tolgoi, or Erdenes TT, is
developing the East Tsankhi part of the 60-billion-metric ton
Tavan Tolgoi deposit, of which MMC’s share accounts for about 4
percent. Erdenes TT is seeking to sell shares to raise $3
billion to finance new railways, roads, and power
infrastructure.  Mongolia has held talks with companies including  Peabody
Energy Corp. (BTU) , OAO Russian Railways, and China’s  Shenhua Group  to
develop the West Tsankhi part of Tavan Tolgoi.  MMC uses some of its production to power an 18-megawatt
plant to supply electricity to the mine and surrounding town.
Roughly 30 kilometers away, MMC is also developing Baruun Naran
mine, which it acquired last June for $464.5 million from a unit
of Kerry Holdings Ltd.  “Once the railway is completed, it will also be seen as
the next profit-generating center,” Gotov said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in  Hong Kong  at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  