-- Top Court Health-Care Ruling Relies on Congress Tax Power
-- B y   L a u r i e   A s s e o
-- 2012-06-28T22:17:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/top-court-health-care-ruling-relies-on-congress-tax-power.html
The U.S. Supreme Court decision
upholding President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law relies on
Congress’s power to impose taxes, not the interstate-commerce
authority that was the focus of most debate.  Chief Justice  John Roberts , appointed by President  George W. Bush , was joined by the court’s four Democratic appointees in
declaring that the Constitution allows Congress to make
Americans pay a penalty if they don’t have health insurance.
That provision is at the core of the law that seeks to expand
health insurance to millions of Americans and reduce costs.  Here are questions and answers about what the justices
said and why:  What does the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act do?  The law requires most people to have insurance by 2014 or
pay a penalty. States will set up insurance exchanges where
people who lack employer-provided insurance can buy coverage.
The law also requires insurers to cover people with pre-existing
health conditions and expands Medicaid coverage for the poor.
Some provisions are already in effect: closing a gap in Medicare
prescription-drug coverage, providing free preventive care such
as flu shots, and letting 2.5 million young adults stay on their
parents’ insurance until age 26.  What was the court’s reason for upholding the insurance
requirement?  Congress has power under the Constitution to “lay and
collect taxes, duties, imposts and excises.” Roberts wrote for
the court that the health-care law’s mandate that people have
insurance or pay a penalty can be viewed as imposing a tax on
those who go without insurance. While the payment is “plainly
designed to expand health insurance coverage,” he said, “taxes
that seek to influence conduct are nothing new.”  Joining Roberts’s reasoning on that point were Justices
Ruth Bader Ginsburg,  Stephen Breyer ,  Sonia Sotomayor  and  Elena Kagan , all nominated by Democratic presidents.  What is the penalty?  The penalty for not having insurance is phased in starting
in 2014, when the minimum coverage requirement takes effect.
The law sets minimum and maximum penalties. In the first year,
the minimum annual penalty is the greater of 1 percent of
 household income  or $95 per adult and $47.50 per child, up to
$285 per family. That grows by 2016 to the greater of 2.5
percent of household income or as much as $2,085 per family.  The maximum annual penalty is capped at the national
average premium for a health-insurance policy that meets
requirements specified in the law.  Why did the court say Congress couldn’t make people buy
insurance under its power to regulate interstate commerce?  Roberts agreed with the four dissenters, all Republican
appointees, that this argument by the Obama administration for
upholding the law wasn’t valid. Congress has the power to
regulate interstate commerce, but a person’s decision not to buy
health insurance doesn’t qualify as commerce, said Roberts and
the dissenters. Therefore, they said the law couldn’t be
justified on those grounds.  The ruling limited the expansion of Medicaid. How and why?  The law seeks to expand the federal-state Medicaid program
to cover people with incomes up to 138 percent of the federal
poverty level. States that didn’t comply with the expansion
could have lost all or part of their federal Medicaid funds.
Under the court’s ruling, states can be required to provide
expanded coverage if they take the new Medicaid money, although
the government can’t revoke states’ existing Medicaid funding if
they refuse to expand coverage.  What did the dissenters say?  Congress can’t make healthy people buy insurance if they
don’t want it, and the expansion of Medicaid also exceeds
federal power, wrote Justices Antonin Scalia,  Anthony Kennedy ,
 Clarence Thomas  and  Samuel Alito . The rest of the health-care
law must fall with those provisions, the justices said.  How did opponents of the health-care law respond to the
decision?  House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican,
said the Republican-controlled chamber will vote July 11 to
repeal the law. House Republicans already have voted 30 times to
eliminate, cut funding or scale back parts or all of the health-
care law. Those efforts haven’t advanced in the Democratic-
controlled Senate. Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney 
also backs repeal of the law and said he would work to do so
“on my first day if elected president of the United States.”  How did health-care company shares react to the ruling?  Hospital companies led by  HCA Holdings Inc. (HCA)  jumped in  New
York  trading, and Medicaid insurers paced by  Molina Healthcare
Inc. (MOH)  rose. Commercial carriers such as  WellPoint Inc. (WLP)  fell in
the face of the law’s new regulations. HCA, the biggest U.S.
hospital chain, based in Nashville, Tennessee, rose 11 percent
to $29.47. Dallas-based  Tenet Healthcare Corp. (THC) , the third-
biggest chain, jumped 5.4 percent to $5.25, while Long Beach,
California-based Molina rose 8.6 percent to $23.16.
Indianapolis-based WellPoint, the second-largest U.S. health
insurer, fell 5.2 percent to $65.90.  What is public opinion about the health-care law?  A plurality of Americans, 43 percent, say they want to
retain the 2010 law with only small modifications, while 15
percent say the measure should be left alone, according to a
Bloomberg National Poll of 1,002 adults taken June 15-18. One-
third say it should be repealed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurie Asseo in Washington at 
 lasseo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  