-- Morgan Stanley Names Ex-FASB Head Robert Herz to Board
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-06-28T14:27:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/morgan-stanley-names-ex-fasb-head-robert-herz-to-board.html
Morgan Stanley (MS) , the sixth-largest
U.S. bank by assets, named former Financial Accounting Standards
Board Chairman Robert Herz to its board of directors, bringing
it to 14 members.  Herz, who led FASB from 2002 to 2010, will join the board
on July 2 and serve on the audit committee, New York-based
Morgan Stanley said today in a statement. He has served on the
board of  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  since June 2011.  Herz, 59, was head of FASB through the aftermath of the
financial crisis and the turmoil that followed the collapse of
Enron Corp. and WorldCom Inc., which focused public and investor
attention on accounting scandals. Morgan Stanley Chief Executive
Officer  James Gorman  earlier this month praised the strength of
his firm’s audit and risk board committees after  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  faced criticism about the makeup of its board following
disclosure of a $2 billion trading loss.  “Herz is a recognized authority on financial reporting,
and we look forward to the insights he will bring that
complement our board,” Laura D. Tyson, chairwoman of the
board’s nominating and governance committee, said in the
statement.  Herz presided over FASB as it pushed for accounting rules
that would force banks to mark assets to market value and
require companies to count stock options as a business expense.
He previously served as a partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
from 1985 to 2002.  Committee Members  Morgan Stanley also announced in a filing today changes to
its board committees that will take effect on July 2. James Owens, the former CEO of  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , will be chairman of
the nominating and governance committee and a member of the risk
committee. Tyson is also joining the risk committee, bringing
that group to five directors.  O. Griffith Sexton, a Columbia Business School professor,
is becoming a member of the operations and technology committee,
while  Klaus Kleinfeld , the  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  CEO who joined the board
this year, was added to the nominating and governance committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  