-- Organic Lets Family Farms Prosper in Industrial-Agriculture Era
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-06-28T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/organic-lets-family-farms-prosper-in-industrial-agriculture-era.html
To make a living as a U.S. farmer
today, you pretty much have two choices. Raise a crop or
livestock and contract with a corporation to buy it. Or start a
small, artisanal operation that caters to the locavore crowd
eager to pay top dollar for garlic scapes and kohlrabi.  Matt and Anne Burkholder chose a different route. Fifteen
years ago, the Dartmouth College sweethearts traded  New
Hampshire ’s White Mountains for  Nebraska ’s Great Plains to take
over land in Cozad, population 4,000, that’s been in Matt’s
family for three generations.  Their 5,000-acre spread barely resembles the alfalfa
operation Matt’s grandfather began in 1948, Bloomberg
Businessweek reports in its July 2 edition. The couple grows
 organic  corn on some fields and genetically modified batches on
others. Their feedlot, where young cattle are fattened up for
slaughter, is industrial-size, yet the 2,700-head herd also has
room to run and other creature comforts.  It’s with that kind of mix, the Burkholders say, that a
family farm can thrive in this era of industrial agriculture.
Where Matt’s dad and grandfather were businessmen who relied on
hired help, Anne says, “Matt and I are very hands-on. We get
dirty every day.”  Organic Switch  The couple’s foray into farming began in the late 1990s,
just as Americans started demanding foods grown without
chemical-laced fertilizers and pesticides. Prices for the
alfalfa long produced by Matt’s dad were being undercut by
cheaper feeds, so Matt —- he runs the crop side of the business
-— switched to organic production and began marketing to organic
egg producers, who pay 30 percent more than he was getting
before.  Adding organic corn to his fields in 2007 helped the bottom
line even more: The all-natural variety can sell for twice what
commodity corn fetches. To keep the crops free of pests, Matt
brought in insect-eating wasps, which cost 90 percent less than
chemicals.  Anne had to get even more creative in overhauling the beef
business, where it’s common to make just $20 in profit after
raising a 1,300-pound animal. Her father-in-law had sold his
steers to big meatpackers, an arrangement that gives farmers
little control over their product and its price.  Anne wanted more say in how her animals are raised,
something she thought consumers were interested in. So she
bought into  U.S. Premium Beef LLC , a cooperative that sells meat
around the world to customers willing to pay higher prices for a
better product -- like beef that’s 100 percent traceable to the
farm where the cow was born.  Choosy Buyers  Anne knows the  provenance  of 90 percent of her cattle --she
buys them as calves from farms near hers -- and keeps birth-to-
slaughter records that choosy buyers require. That means she can
sell a steer to the co-op for $65 to $70 more than a typical
rancher would get, generating an additional $350,000 a year.  The arrangement also leaves Anne free to innovate in other
ways. She had an animal psychologist design a program she likens
to an orientation. In their first week at the feedlot, the
cattle learn when and where to eat, and how to rotate through
the system peacefully. The idea is that order reduces the
animals’ stress, making them less prone to sickness and less
dependent on a regular regimen of antibiotics. That helped cut
drug costs by 50 percent, she says.  Dividing Labor  Dividing the labor means husband and wife are also each
other’s customers. Matt buys manure from Anne to fertilize his
corn, while Anne buys Matt’s excess alfalfa hay for cattle feed.
One year he was short, and “people thought our marriage was in
trouble” when Anne started asking neighbors for hay, Matt
jokes.  Together, the couple’s fiscal 2011 revenue was $8.02
million. Government doesn’t have a big role in the enterprise.
Some years ago a federal loan program helped fund an eco-upgrade
of the plant that turns Matt’s alfalfa grass into pellets. (It
now runs on sawdust instead of natural gas.) But the farm’s
annual crop subsidies of roughly $10,000 in recent years are a
negligible part of total profit.  Last year, Anne began chronicling farm life on a blog. It’s
great to connect with the public, she says. Selling directly to
them —- her long-term plan -— would be even better. “I don’t
have a job,” she says, “if I don’t have a consumer.’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  