-- Hornets Take Forward Anthony Davis With No. 1 NBA Draft Pick
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-06-29T02:59:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/hornets-take-forward-anthony-davis-with-no-1-nba-draft-pick-1-.html
Anthony Davis  was taken with the No.
1 pick in the National Basketball Association draft by the  New
Orleans Hornets , who finished last season with a Western
Conference-low 21 wins.  The NBA champion Miami Heat, selecting 27th, picked
Mississippi State power forward Arnett Moultrie. The runner-up
Oklahoma City Thunder took Baylor’s power forward  Perry Jones  as
the 28th choice.  The Associated Press Player of the Year, Davis led the
University of Kentucky to the national championship in his only
college season. The 6-foot-10 forward averaged 14.2 points, 10.4
rebounds and 4.7 blocks.  “I just want to come in and do the best I can,” Davis
said in a televised interview. “It’s going to be very
difficult.”  Forward Michael Kidd-Gilchrist, Davis’s teammate at
Kentucky, was selected second by the  Charlotte  Bobcats, and
Florida guard Bradley Beal went third to the Washington Wizards
on his 19th birthday. The  Cleveland Cavaliers  picked Syracuse
guard Dion Waiters fourth overall and the  Sacramento Kings 
rounded out the top five with Kansas forward  Thomas Robinson .  “I ain’t stopping for nobody,” said Robinson, “I got
work to do.”  Custody Battle  Robinson is fighting his father and an uncle for custody of
his nine-year-old sister, Jayla, who accompanied him to the
draft, the Kansas City Star reported.  In the space of a month in 2011, Robinson lost his mother,
who raised the two children on her own, to a heart attack and
both his maternal grandparents, the newspaper said.  The Portland Trailblazers, with the sixth pick, selected
Weber State guard Damian Lillard, who was second in scoring in
the nation with 24.5 points per game. North Carolina forward
Harrison Barnes was chosen seventh by the  Golden State Warriors ,
and Washington guard Terrence Ross went eighth to the Toronto
Raptors. The  Detroit Pistons  took Connecticut center Andre
Drummond, a freshman, as the ninth selection. Duke guard Austin
Rivers, the son of Boston Celtics coach  Doc Rivers , went next to
the Hornets.  Davis, 19, is the third consecutive player and fifth in six
years to be selected first after one season in college, joining
Kyrie Irving (2011),  John Wall  (2010),  Derrick Rose  (2008) and
Greg Oden (2007). Davis is guaranteed a minimum salary of $4.3
million under the league’s collective bargaining agreement as
the No. 1 pick in the draft, held tonight in Newark, New Jersey.  One Season  While ESPN analyst Jay Bilas said Davis is the only “sure-
fire star” in this year’s class, he cautioned that he shouldn’t
be considered the next  LeBron James , the top pick in 2003 who
became a three-time league Most Valuable Player and led the
 Miami Heat  to the NBA title this month.  “Davis is separated from the group,” Bilas said on a
media conference call this week. “That doesn’t mean he’s LeBron,
but he is consensus No. 1 in this draft.”  The Hornets finished the lockout-shortened season with a
21-45 record, tied with the Cavaliers for the third-worst mark
in the NBA behind the Bobcats (seven wins) and the Wizards (20).
New Orleans has reached the second round of the playoffs once in
10 years.  The Hornets won the draft lottery on May 30 and last week
cleared space on their roster for Davis by trading 29-year-old
Emeka Okafor and 26-year-old Trevor Ariza to the  Washington
Wizards .  The departure of Okafor, a 6-foot-10 center who started
every game he played for New Orleans last season, will allow
Davis to immediately compete for a starting job.  The Hornets received the No. 46 pick in tonight’s draft in
the deal and also hold the No. 10 selection.  Team Rebuilding  “We’re rebuilding our team and this is one step in our new
direction,” General Manager Dell Demps said in a statement when
the Okafor deal was announced. “This trade will provide an
opportunity for our young players to develop and create
flexibility to add to our core group.”  Davis joins a team with players such as 21-year-old forward
Al-Farouq Aminu, 25-year-old guard Greivis Vasquez and 26-year-
old guard  Jason Smith . Eric Gordon, who averaged a team-high
20.6 points in nine games last season, will be a restricted free
agent on July 1.  The team also has a new owner -- Tom Benson, the owner of
the  National Football League ’s New Orleans Saints -- who
replaced Hornets President Hugh Weber with Saints executives
Dennis Lauscha and Mickey Loomis.  SEC Awards  Davis -- the Player, Freshman and Defensive Player of the
Year in the Southeastern Conference -- has hired a financial
adviser to help manage his money.  He told Bloomberg Radio’s “Taking Stock” in an interview
this week that, at 225 pounds, he needs to add muscle to be
successful in the NBA.  “It would make me become a better player offensively and
defensively,” he said. “I’ve been in the weight room putting
on weight, trying to get stronger to get ready for the season.”  Davis said he won’t feel added pressure being the first
pick in the draft.  “I’m about to play against some of the guys I looked up to
and idolized my whole life,” he said. “But at the same time,
it’s now your job. You have to go out there, play your
hardest.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  