-- Mortgage Rates for U.S. 30-Year Loans Hold at Record-Low 3.66%
-- B y   N o a h   R a y m a n
-- 2012-06-28T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/mortgage-rates-for-u-s-30-year-loans-hold-at-record-low-3-66-.html
Mortgage rates  in the U.S. were
little changed, keeping borrowing costs at the record-low levels
that have helped bolster the housing market.  The average rate for a 30-year fixed mortgage held in the
week ended today at 3.66 percent, the lowest in Freddie Mac
records dating to 1971. The average 15-year rate dropped to 2.94
percent, also a record, from 2.95 percent, the McLean, Virginia-
based mortgage-finance company said today in a statement.  Low borrowing costs are helping to strengthen housing
demand as property prices stabilize. Contracts to buy previously
owned homes rose 5.9 percent last month, matching a two-year
high reached in March, the National Association of Realtors said
yesterday. The S&P/Case Shiller  index  of values in 20 U.S.
cities dropped 1.9 percent in April from a year earlier, the
smallest decline since November 2010.  “We’ve lifted off the bottom,” Ellen Zentner, a senior
U.S. economist at Nomura Securities International Inc. in  New
York , said yesterday in a telephone interview. “We are in a
housing recovery, not a very robust one, but we have seen the
turning point for sales and activity, pretty much nationwide.”  Lennar Corp. (LEN) , the third-largest U.S. homebuilder by
revenue, yesterday reported a surge in fiscal second-quarter
profit as it booked a tax benefit and sales climbed. Orders
jumped 40 percent from a year earlier, the Miami-based company
said.  Purchases of new U.S. houses rose in May to a two-year
high, the Commerce Department said June 25.  Home-loan applications declined in the period ended June
22, according to the  Mortgage Bankers Association . A measure of
 refinancing  dropped 8.3 percent from the prior week, while the
 purchase  gauge fell 1.4 percent, the Washington-based group said
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Rayman in New York at 
 nrayman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  