-- Osborne Pledges Powers to Pursue Criminal Probe Over Libor
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-06-28T13:38:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/osborne-pledges-powers-to-pursue-criminal-probe-over-libor.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said Britain’s financial regulator is looking at whether
it can bring criminal charges over the attempt by banks to
manipulate the inter-bank lending rate, or LIBOR, as he promised
new laws to prevent market abuse.  Osborne said he couldn’t comment whether there are plans to
prosecute executives at  Barclays Plc (BARC)  or other banks after the
London-based lender was fined $451 million for attempting to
manipulate Libor. The Financial Services Authority will “use
every power available to them,” he said.  “We are examining whether strengthening the criminal
sanctions regime for market abuse and market manipulation is
warranted, and if so, we will provide for these powers
quickly,” Osborne told lawmakers in London today. Bringing
criminal charges “is absolutely what the authorities are
looking at.”  Serious Fraud Office investigators are in talks with the
FSA over the rate-rigging scandal, Osborne said. He said the
affair was “a shocking indictment of the culture of banks like
Barclays in the run-up to the financial crisis.” Barclays Chief
Executive Officer  Bob Diamond  has “serious questions to
answer,” he said.  “It is clear that what happened at Barclays, and
potentially other banks, was completely unacceptable, was
systematic of a financial system that elevated greed above all
other concerns, and brought our economy to its knees,” he said.  ‘Deeply Concerning’  Diamond is under pressure from lawmakers to resign after
Prime Minister David Cameron questioned the “deeply concerning
behavior” at the bank and called for directors to explain how
much they knew. Opposition leader  Ed Miliband  and London Mayor
Boris Johnson demanded a criminal investigation.  Andrew Tyrie , the chairman of Parliament’s cross-party
Treasury Committee, said he would summon Diamond to appear
before lawmakers to account for the bank. Former chancellor
 Alistair Darling  told the House of Commons that the FSA has
powers to have any implicated executives fired from the bank.  At stake is the credibility of the decades-old Libor system
and the securities and loan products that rely on it, ranging
from an estimated $554 trillion in interest-rate contracts,
according to the FSA, to mortgage and credit-card payments made
by consumers around the world.  No Bonuses  Diamond and three lieutenants will forgo their bonuses as a
result, Britain’s second-biggest bank by assets said in a
statement yesterday. “A member of senior management”
instructed Barclays’ Libor staff to lower their submissions to
make them match other banks and dispel concern about the
lender’s health, the U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading Commission 
said.  Derivatives traders requested the false submissions in the
Libor and Euribor setting process, as they were “motivated by
profit and sought to benefit Barclays’ trading positions,” the
FSA said. The settlements with the  FSA , the  CFTC  and the U.S.
Department of Justice are the first in an international
investigation into whether banks tried to manipulate Libor to
hide their true cost of borrowing.  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,  UBS AG (UBSN) ,
 ICAP Plc (IAP) ,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and Deutsche Bank AG are
among firms that are being probed by regulators worldwide into
how Libor is set.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  