-- Tour de France Winner May Be British as Wiggins Mimics Armstrong
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-06-28T22:14:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/tour-de-france-winner-may-be-british-as-wiggins-mimics-armstrong.html
Bradley Wiggins is favored to become
the U.K.’s first  Tour de France  winner, and some say he may even
control the race as  Lance Armstrong  used to.  The Briton, who rides for Team Sky, beat defending champion
 Cadel Evans  in the  Criterium du Dauphine  in early June when his
Sky teammates dictated the race’s pace. Their dominance was
similar to that by seven-time winner Armstrong’s U.S. Postal
team from 1999 to 2004, according to Pedro Horrillo, a former
Tour de  France  rider.  “The superiority was the same,” Horrillo, who writes a
column about the race for  Spain ’s El Pais newspaper, said in a
telephone interview. “They acted like they owned the road.”  Team Sky’s Wiggins is a 6-5 chance to win with  U.K.
bookmaker William Hill , while Evans is a 2-1 chance. A
successful $5 bet on Wiggins would yield $6 plus the stake.  The chances of Wiggins, who matched a British-high fourth
place at the 2009 Tour, have improved because Spain’s two-time
champion  Alberto Contador  is suspended for a doping infraction.
Luxembourg’s  Andy Schleck , who inherited Contador’s 2010 title,
is also out injured. The  three-week race , first run in 1903,
covers 2,173 miles (3,497 kilometers) and starts tomorrow with a
3.8-mile prologue in Liege,  Belgium .  Team Sky, bankrolled by  News Corp . and British Sky
Broadcasting Plc, began racing in 2010 on the back of U.K.
success in track cycling. Wiggins, who was born in Belgium and
raised in  London , won two of Britain’s eight cycling gold medals
at the 2008  Olympic Games .  Britain’s Best Chance  Wiggins had the best chance of any Briton ever to win the
Tour de France because of his form and the strength of the Sky
team, teammate  Mark Cavendish  said in an interview. “We can be
confident he’ll put up a very, very good show,” Cavendish said.  Sky riders Chris Froome, Michael Rogers and Richie Porte
led race leader Wiggins up the final climb on the next-to-last
stage of the Dauphine to the Col de Joux Plane. Evans had no
teammates in the nine-man pack.  Wearing sunglasses over expressionless faces, the  Team Sky 
cyclists rode in a line without showing any emotion like U.S.
Postal.  “It’s a symptom of concentration; they were very
focused,” Horrillo said in a phone interview. “It’s not
spectacular but it’s effective.”  Evans only broke free of the group on the descent to
Morzine to gain an 8-second advantage, and Wiggins clinched the
race win by  more than a minute  the next day.  Controls the Pace  Marc Madiot, manager of the  Francaise des Jeux  team, says
the Tour may become dull if Sky controls the pace.  “It’s possible it could be boring for the spectator,”
Madiot said in a phone interview. “Team Sky is there to win the
race, not to thrill the fans.”  Before joining Sky in 2010, Wiggins rode for Francaise des
Jeux and two other French teams:  Credit Agricole  and Cofidis. He
has also competed for the U.S.’s High Road and Garmin among
other teams.  Wiggins, 32, missed last year’s Tour with a broken
collarbone. After recovering, he finished third at the  Vuelta a
Espana , another of the so-called Grand Tours. He says Evans, an
Australian, is also cycling well.  “I am not the favorite for the Tour de France, but I’m one
of the favorites for sure,” Wiggins told the race website,
letour.com.  The tour begins as a new cloud of suspicion surrounds
Armstrong. The U.S. Anti-Doping Agency this month accused him
and five others of engaging in a doping conspiracy from 1998 to
2011. Armstrong says there is no evidence to support USADA’s
claims. The U.S. Attorney ended a criminal investigation into
doping allegations against him in February without filing
charges.  Wiggins’s Advantage  This year’s route favors Wiggins’s talent in against-the-
clock racing because there are 63 miles of time trial -- twice
as much as last year.  That may create a “massive” advantage for Wiggins and
other specialists that others may not be able to pare back,
Movistar team manager Eusebio Unzue said in a statement
previewing the race.  In a race on public roads where crashes or strong winds can
set back a rider’s challenge, Team Sky may not be able to
control everything.  “Sometimes the Tour becomes an illogical race,” Unzue
adds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  