-- House Solyndra Probe Nears Completion
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-06-29T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/house-s-stearns-says-investigation-into-solyndra-nearing-end.html
The Republican-led investigation
into Solyndra LLC, the solar-panel maker that received a $535
million U.S. loan guarantee only to go bankrupt two years later,
is drawing to an end.  Representative  Cliff Stearns , the chairman of the House
Energy Committee’s oversight panel, told reporters yesterday
that he was awaiting certification from the White House that it
had turned over all requested documents relating to Solyndra.  He also wants testimony from  Heather Zichal , President
 Barack Obama ’s climate-change and energy adviser, and Aditya
Kumar, a White House aide when the solar company’s loan
application was being reviewed.  “Now that supposedly we’ve gotten all the documents,
Solyndra could be moved toward closing if the two witnesses were
to testify and we could get the White House counsel to
certify,” said Stearns, a Florida Republican.  Energy Committee Chairman  Fred Upton , a Michigan
Republican, said the final interviews might come within a week,
to be followed by a report from the committee. He wouldn’t
comment about what the investigation has shown.  He and Stearns have suggested the company got its loan from
the Energy Department because of political connections to the
White House.  White House spokesman  Eric Schultz  didn’t respond to an e-
mail yesterday seeking comment.  Obama Fundraiser  Congressional Democrats and the White House have repeatedly
said the loan was made on its merits and not as a political
favor to Obama fundraiser  George Kaiser , an Oklahoma billionaire
whose foundation was the leading investor in the company. Kaiser
told the committee he didn’t lobby for the loan.  The House investigation has been under way since before
Solyndra filed for bankruptcy in September. Upton and Stearns
sent a letter to Energy Secretary Steven Chu about the company’s
financial health in February 2011, seeking documents from the
company and Energy officials in charge of the loan program.  The company’s closing in September marked the start of a
more intensive examination, and more document requests.
Republicans eventually collected tens of thousands of pages of
e-mails and other materials from the White House and Energy
Department and other agencies related to the loan.  Investors also turned over a trove of their own e-mails
relating to Solyndra.  Aides Interviewed  Investigators also have interviewed at least nine
administration officials, all of whom denied White House
influence, and held at least five congressional hearings.  “They’ve shown that these loans are risky,”
Representative  Diana DeGette  of  Colorado , the top-ranking
Democrat on the energy committee’s oversight panel, said of the
Republicans in an interview. “They’ve shown that sometimes they
work and sometimes they fail, and that’s about it. I know they
had hoped to find some smoking gun here, but I don’t think they
did.”  Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  has
spotlighted Solyndra’s failure, saying the company symbolized
Obama’s broader shortcomings to revive the economy.  He visited Solyndra’s shuttered factory last month to make
that point. Obama campaign has noted that as governor of
 Massachusetts , Romney also backed clean-energy companies that
have since failed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  