-- Housing Rebound Accelerated by State Agencies: Mortgages
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-06-28T04:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/housing-rebound-accelerated-by-state-agencies-mortgages.html
Kelly Carlson, 36, said she couldn’t
have afforded her new two-story home in Shoreview,  Minnesota ,
without the $4,500 grant and the mortgage offered through the
state’s Housing Finance Agency.  After four years of renting, Carlson, who earns $54,600 a
year as a technology project coordinator at  Wells Fargo & Co .,
bought the two-bedroom townhouse for $105,350 in May. She got a
3.875 percent, 30-year mortgage and a grant to cover most of the
closing costs. Her daughter Keira Walquist, who turns five years
old in August, has already staked out the loft as her playroom.
“She loves it,” Carlson said by telephone.  State housing agencies are contributing to the nascent
housing recovery in the U.S. by making more grants and loans to
cover costs such as origination fees, third-party appraisals and
insurance premiums that have jumped about 9 percent since the
 U.S. housing collapse  that has brought average  home prices  down
 34 percent  from their July 2006 peak. In the area where Carlson
bought, prices are up 4 percent since hitting their low in March
2011, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller Index for metropolitan
 Minneapolis .  The Minnesota agency expects to increase lending this year
by about 2 percent, while Iowa’s will expand by about 15 percent
and  Maryland ’s by about 30 percent.  That’s boosting the revenue and creditworthiness of the
agencies, some of which also bundle the mortgages into
securities for sale to investors to recoup the cost of down
payment assistance at a profit, said Ping Hsieh, a senior
analyst at Moody’s Investors Service. The mortgage securities
have higher interest rates than conventional loans.  Very Solid  State housing finance agencies have $107 billion in
outstanding tax-free muni debt that’s rated by Moody’s. The debt
is “very solid,” Tim Milway, director at New York-based
BlackRock Inc., which oversees $105 billion of municipal debt,
said in a telephone interview.  The bonds are generally ranked double-A, and are cheaper
compared with other muni debt because the bonds are callable,
said Milway.  “It’s a valuable sector for picking up a little additional
yield without having to take additional credit risk,” he said.
 “If you’re looking to diversify your portfolio within the muni
space, housing would be one spot where you can put your money.”  Housing finance agency debt offers 80 to 100 basis points
more than triple-A rated debt, said Jamie Iselin, who helps
oversee $11 billion as head of municipal fixed-income at New
York-based Neuberger Berman Group LLC. This reflects some
investors’ aversion to anything with housing, although generally
these bonds have strong backing, Iselin said.  ‘Scary Word’  “It’s a scary word for some people,” Iselin said.
“There’s some real value here.”  If interest rates remain steady, state housing finance debt
can outperform the highest-rated bonds that offer less in yield,
Iselin said.  “The additional yield spread that they provide investors
could allow them to outperform high-grade triple-A bonds that
have a much lower yield component of their return,” he said.  A Bank of America Merrill Lynch bond index tied to state
housing agencies has returned 4.3 percent this year after an 8.5
percent gain last year.  Housing agencies in Minnesota, Iowa and Maryland are
lending more to people needing down-payment help than those who
don’t, and officials there said they expect the trend to
continue. Those in  Tennessee ,  South Carolina ,  Louisiana ,  Wyoming 
and  West Virginia  are also seeing increases, said Moody’s Hsieh
in a telephone interview.  Little Competition  “We definitely think it’s going to maintain at these
higher levels especially as the general market stays low as it
is right now,” said Rob Tietz, finance and funding manager for
the Iowa Finance Authority. “It’s not very likely that you’re
going to see the big home lenders go out there and use their own
balance sheet for down-payment assistance for borrowers. We’re
the only game in town as far as that goes.”  This year, 75 percent of the authority’s loans are those
requiring grants for down payments, up from about 50 percent in
previous years, he said. This year, the agency will lend $150
million, a 15 percent increase from last year, he said.  The mission of agencies such as Tietz’s is typically to
help residents with low to moderate incomes afford homes, and
aid can range from grants to loans along with mortgages. The
increase in demand for loans with assistance is “serving to
expand opportunities to those populations who are traditionally
underserved,” such as single people and minorities, said
Michael Haley, assistant commissioner at the  Minnesota Housing
Finance Agency .  Higher Rates  Housing agency mortgages typically charge higher interest
rates than conventional loans. The average rate for a 30-year
fixed mortgage fell to 3.66 percent in the week ended June 21
from 3.71 percent,  Freddie Mac  said in a statement. It was the
lowest in the McLean, Virginia-based mortgage-finance company’s
records dating to 1971. While that’s kept the agencies partially
sidelined since 2008, they are seeing increasing demand as
prospective homebuyers encounter bank restrictions and higher
closing costs.  They’re “formidable,” even for lower-priced homes, Haley
said by telephone. Nationally, closing costs have jumped 8.8
percent to $4,070 on a $200,000 mortgage from 2010, according to
Bankrate Inc.’s annual  survey  in July.  In Minnesota, they’ve risen to 10 percent of the average
purchase price, from 6.5 percent in 2010, Haley said. Higher
mortgage insurance premiums and expenses related to
documentation may be driving the transaction costs, he said. His
agency is seeing mortgages with assistance jump to 73 percent of
all loans this year, compared with 35 percent historically
through 2008.  ‘Really Expensive’  Carlson was surprised when she first was told her closing
costs would total $5,300, a figure that “just seemed really
expensive, and I didn’t understand why,” she said. Ultimately,
the fees were reduced to $4,800, which the grant helped to
cover.  The higher  interest rate  for loans from state agencies
means the debt can be sold at a premium.  “There will be investors who prefer higher coupon MBS
versus the others,” said Moody’s Hsieh.  Recoup Cost  Such premiums can help recoup the cost of the down-payment
assistance and boost programs offered by housing finance
officials. Maryland’s participation in the MBS market “helps by
allowing us to offer lower interest rates” and stimulate the
turnover of foreclosed and short-sale properties, said Bill
Ariano, deputy director of the community development
administration of Maryland’s  Department of Housing and Community
Development . Almost the state’s entire portfolio is mortgages
with assistance, the highest in its history, compared with 75
percent in 2008. Maryland expects to lend over $300 million to
homeowners in 2012, a 30 percent increase from the previous
fiscal year, he said.  The  Iowa  Finance Authority offers mortgages with 3.75
percent and 4.25 percent rates for those needing down payment
assistance, Tietz said. The former gets bundled in a 3.5 percent
pass-through security, while the security for the down payment
assistance mortgages gets a 4 percent rate. Investors therefore
receive an extra 50 basis points, he said.  The agency last month sold a 4 percent pass-through
security forward for July settlement and got an almost 108
dollar price, more than the 102.5 dollar price needed to recoup
the cost of homebuyer help, he said.  “We’re making a lot of money on those trades, which more
than offsets” the down payment assistance, Tietz said.  That goes back into the agency’s work promoting affordable
home ownership. Officials point to examples such as Carlson, who
wanted a stable environment for her and her daughter, who enters
kindergarten later this year.  “As an investment, instead of just renting and giving
someone else my money, it’s nice to own my own property,” she
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  