-- Palm-Oil Exports From Indonesia Set to Advance on Ramadan
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i
-- 2012-06-29T11:33:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/palm-oil-exports-from-indonesia-set-to-extend-advance-on-ramadan.html
Palm-oil  shipments from  Indonesia ,
the world’s largest producer, may climb 9.5 percent in June on
sustained demand before the Muslim fasting month of Ramadan.  Exports are set to climb to 1.5 million metric tons from
1.37 million tons in May, while output will probably be little
changed at 2.1 million tons, according to the median of five
plantation and refining company executives in a Bloomberg News
survey. Inventory will also be little changed at 1.85 million
tons, two of the respondents said.  Futures lost 17 percent from a 13-month high in April as
the debt crisis in  Europe  and the slowing economy in  China , the
largest cooking-oil user, reduced demand, potentially limiting
costs for  Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s largest foodmaker, and curbing
revenues at PT Astra Agro Lestari and  Golden Agri-Resources
Ltd. (GGR) , the second-biggest grower.  “Global demand, either from  India  or other countries, will
usually increase by 15 percent to 20 percent during the festive
seasons,” said Derom Bangun, a deputy chairman at the
Indonesian Palm Oil Board, a group of growers and refiners.
“This will support prices even as the pressure from the
European crisis is still quite strong.”  The holy month of Ramadan starting this year in late July
is a time when consumption of cooking oil usually climbs as
followers break daylong fasts with communal meals. The Eid al-
Fitr festival marks the end of fasting.  Worst Quarter  Indonesia exported 1.37 million tons of palm oil last
month, a 1.4 percent drop from April, according data from the
Indonesia Palm Oil Association. That was lower than the median
estimate of 1.63 million tons from four companies in a Bloomberg
survey published May 31.  Palm oil lost 12 percent this quarter and is set for its
worst performance since the period ended March last year.
September-delivery futures gained 0.7 percent to 3,020 ringgit a
metric ton on the  Malaysia  Derivatives Exchange today.  Soybean
oil  has declined 5 percent this quarter.  Prices are expected to stay at about 2,800 ringgit to 3,000
ringgit until July, as demand from China and India remains
strong, Susanto, head of marketing at the palm oil association,
said June 19.  Cooking-oil imports by India, the second-largest consumer,
climbed for a fourth month in May, surging 35 percent to 896,921
tons from 664,133 tons a year earlier, the Solvent Extractors’
Association of India said June 14. That was higher than the
median estimate of 850,000 tons in a Bloomberg survey of five
processors and brokers.  Lower Tax  Imports of crude palm oil climbed 11 percent to 520,451
tons in May, and refined palm-oil purchases more than doubled to
165,426 tons, the group said.  “The  food industry  is still the main market for palm oil,
so I’m not too worried about any potential decline in demand,”
said Sahat Sinaga, executive director of the Indonesian
Confederation of Vegetable Oil Industries. “As long as people
still need cooking oil and they still like to use palm oil as
the main ingredient, demand will never run out.”  The country’s export-tax structure is making its products
more attractive compared with Malaysia, the second-largest
producer, Sinaga said. He expects refined-palm oil exports will
represent 51 percent of total shipments this year, up from 40
percent last year.  Indonesia cut the tax rate for exports of crude palm oil in
July to 15 percent, a level last seen in January, from 19.5
percent this month, Deddy Saleh, director general of foreign
trade at the Trade Ministry, said June 25. The base price to
calculate the levy was cut to $944 per ton from $1,098, he said.  The government reviews the tax rates and base export prices
every month, based on average rates in  Kuala Lumpur , Rotterdam
and Jakarta. Exporters may delay some shipments to July to
benefit from the lower tax, Joko Supriyono, secretary general at
the palm oil association, said June 20.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  