-- Panasonic to Reform Headquarters, Cut ‘Redundancies’ to Revive
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-06-28T09:36:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/panasonic-to-reform-headquarters-cut-redundancies-to-revive.html
Panasonic Corp. (6752)  will reform its
headquarters and eliminate redundancies to revive the company
after its record loss last year, President Kazuhiro Tsuga said.  “We’ll move swiftly and aggressively,” Tsuga, who took
over as president of the Osaka-based company yesterday, told
reporters in Tokyo today. Panasonic has enough resources to
improve earnings and potential for growth, Tsuga said.  Panasonic, the biggest employer among publicly traded
companies in  Japan  with 330,767 workers, eliminated 36,000 jobs
last fiscal year under Fumio Ohtsubo, who is now chairman. The
maker of Viera televisions has  projected  net income of 50
billion yen ($630 million) for the year that started April 1,
after charges to write down assets related to Sanyo Electric Co.
pushed the company into a 772 billion yen annual loss.  The company’s headquarters, which currently has about 7,000
employees, will narrow its focus to  investor relations  and
managing overall business portfolios after separating business
promotion and other units, he said.  “The smaller the headquarters, the better,” he said.  Panasonic gained 2.1 percent to close at 631 yen in Tokyo
 trading  today before the announcement, trimming its loss this
year to 3.5 percent. The company is valued at 1.5 trillion yen,
compared with 7 trillion yen in April 2006.  The company may re-arrange businesses into four areas, he
said. They are household appliances including  TV sets  and solar
panels, business-use goods such as air-conditioners, mobility
products such as car navigation systems and rechargeable
batteries for electric cars, and personal products such as
compact cameras and shavers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in  Tokyo  at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  