-- Paris Seeks to Erase Sore-Loser Image With Olympic Gold Offer
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2012-06-28T22:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/paris-seeks-to-erase-sore-loser-image-with-olympic-gold-offer.html
Parisians pouted and screamed
“foul” when the French capital lost the bid to host the 2012
 Summer Olympics  to  London , making them look like sore losers.
Now, a tourism body is trying to make amends.  The Paris Ile-de-France tourist board yesterday unveiled a
plan, called “Celebrate Your Victories in Style” to award an
all-expenses-paid trip to Paris for two days to two British
people for every gold medal a U.K. athlete wins at the Summer
 Olympic Games  next month.  “We are really anxious to show that we are happy that the
Olympic Games are taking place in the U.K.,”  Jean-Pierre Blat ,
the tourism body’s head, said in an interview in Paris.  The offer marks a reversal from seven years ago when the
winning bid to host the 2012 Summer Games was announced in
 Singapore . Then, Parisians, starting with Mayor Bertrand Delanoe, attributed the French capital’s failure to “something
other than Olympic principles,” insinuating that the city had
been ousted from its perch as the favorite by unfair means.  Hosting the Olympics would have added 40 billion euros ($50
billion) to the French economy between 2005 and 2019 and created
45,000 permanent jobs through tourism and follow-on sporting
events, a Boston Consulting Group study had said. For Paris, the
defeat had marked its third failed attempt to host the games in
20 years, after losing bids for 1992 and 2008. There hasn’t been
a  Summer Olympics  in  France  since 1924.  The French are now trying to recoup some of the lost
revenue by reaching out to the British, who account for more
visits to France than any other nationality.  Olympic Gaffe  When they lost, the French came across as “very arrogant,
very pretentious,” said Blat. A headline in the French press
that still really eats at him was “Olympic Games: 2 hours, 45
minutes from Paris,” he said.  “I really suffered from the French reaction,” he said.
“We don’t know to what extent it gave a bad impression, and I
know the French -- they’re not like that.”  Anglo-French relations sank to a low when Liberation quoted
then French President  Jacques Chirac  in July 2005 deriding
British cuisine and agriculture. The newspaper quoted him as
saying that the “only thing the British have ever given
European farming is mad cow disease,” and that “you can’t
trust people who cook as badly as” the British.  Blat’s group is betting it can win over those offended by
France’s Olympic gaffe with the contest announced yesterday in
London at the French restaurant Gauthier Soho.  Falling Tourism  The effort comes as the number of British visitors has
started to head south in tandem with the economic crisis cutting
into leisure spending.  British visits to the Paris region fell 12 percent from
2009 to 2010, with 1.9 million coming in 2010 and staying 4.7
million nights. Americans made up the second-biggest number of
tourists to the French capital, although their visits rose 1.8
percent to 1.5 million in 2010, according to the Paris Ile-de-
France regional tourism board.  The large number of British visits in part reflects that
the  English Channel  no longer counts as a moat between the U.K.
and France, Blat said.  “At two-and-a-quarter hours by train, we’re no longer in
the mindset of an international trip,” referring to the current
length of the Eurostar train ride from London’s St. Pancras
station to Paris’s Gare du Nord.  France is the most visited country in the world, receiving
79.5 million tourists last year compared to 62.3 million in the
U.S. and 57.6 million arrivals in  China , according to a May
report by the United National World Tourism Organization.  New Ideas  Companies geared to serve tourists account for about 10
percent of French enterprises. One in five of those are in
Paris, the tourism board said in its report for 2011.  The British also lead the world in repeat visits to France,
Blat said. The group is working on selecting activities and
sites beyond the “Grandes Dames” of Paris tourism such as the
Notre Dame cathedral or the Eiffel Tower, to highlight what the
U.K. winners may have missed on earlier trips, Blat said.  Journalists from organizations including Bloomberg News
were invited to help determine what winners could do: tour the
16th century Fontainebleau chateau, learn to make traditional
macarons -- with no cream filling, according to the Domaines des
Macarons de Reau -- and a dinner cruise on the Seine river.  Contestants enter the competition on the Paris Ile-de-
France Tourist Board’s Facebook page. The federation estimates
between 20 and 30 gold medals for British athletes, budgeting
about 650,000 euros for the winners’ trips, with partners in the
region helping defray costs for food, lodging and tickets.  British Gold  The Federation’s British gold medals estimate is a bit more
ambitious than projections from Daniel Johnson, an economics
professor at Colorado College in  Colorado Springs .  Great Britain 
will probably mount to the top of the podium 20 times, according
to the projections.  Johnson’s model focuses on per-capita income, population
and the advantage of hosting the games or living nearby. Based
on six decades of historical data it purports to have a success
rate of 95 percent for predicting gold medals.  For the Federation, that will mean at least 40 British
visitors to Paris, with the possibility they will want to come
back and tell their friends that the French have long gotten
over their Olympic defeat.  The British must know deep down that the French “aren’t
disagreeable,” Blat said. “They wouldn’t come back if we were
really like that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  