-- Paris Orleans Profit Falls as Firm Seeks to Cut Expenses
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2012-06-28T10:56:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/paris-orleans-profit-falls-as-firm-seeks-to-cut-expenses.html
Paris Orleans (PAOR) , controlled by the
Rothschild banking family, said net income fell 64 percent amid
a slowdown in its core financial advisory business.  Net income dropped to 37.2 million euros ($46.2 million) in
the year to March 31, from 102.4 million euros the previous
year, which included gains tied to consolidating its Paris bank
and selling part of a French asset-management unit, the company
said in a statement today. The group is seeking to cut costs of
about 20 million euros over two to three years, notably in
support functions, and generate about 25 million euros of
savings per year in financial advisory from March 31, 2013.  Revenue for global financial advisory and corporate
banking, which accounts for 67 percent of net banking income at
the group, fell 9 percent on the back of a slowdown in M&A,
restructuring and capital markets advisory in all countries
except for  Germany  and some  emerging markets , the company said.  Takeovers in  Europe  fell 20 percent in the second quarter,
while  Asia  eked out a gain of around 3 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  North America  was the best-
performing market, with dealmaking rising 10 percent to almost
$190 billion from the previous quarter.  Private equity revenue gained 37 percent in the period,
while wealth and asset management revenue fell 5 percent. The
group had 37.1 euros billion in assets under management versus
37.2 billion the previous year.  Paris Orleans agreed to a reorganization that will turn the
company into a French limited partnership while minority holders
in units like Rothschild & Cie. Banque get new ordinary shares
in exchange for their stakes. The plans will simplify the
structure, leave the French and U.K. branches of the bank
unified, and tighten the family’s control over the firm,
overseen by David de Rothschild.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  