-- Paulson Forgoes Prognostication as Greatest Trade Sequel Flops
-- B y   S h e e l a h   K o l h a t k a r
-- 2012-06-28T20:43:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/paulson-forgoes-prognostication-as-greatest-trade-sequel-flops.html
John Paulson , founder of Paulson &
Co., one of the world’s largest  hedge funds , has close-cut black
hair, dark eyes and a soft voice. There’s a fuss when he
arrives, befitting a man who made one of the biggest fortunes in
 Wall Street  history, as his general counsel and PR consultant
jostle for seats next to him.  Paulson’s decision to buy credit-default insurance against
billions of dollars of subprime mortgages before the market
collapsed in 2007 earned him almost $4 billion personally and
transformed him from an obscure  money manager  into a financial
legend, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its July 2 issue. Then
came the kind of disastrous run that can unmake a career. In
2011 he lost billions.  “We clearly stumbled last year,” Paulson says. “We
became overconfident as to the direction of the economy and took
a lot of risk.”  On this June afternoon, Paulson, 56, sits in his midtown
Manhattan offices, surrounded by his dozen or so Alexander
Calder watercolors, which serve as a kind of millionaires’
wallpaper in primary colors. The space isn’t the high-tech
cockpit one imagines for a financial wizard at the levers of the
world’s money flow.  Rather than wall-to-wall monitors and global heat maps,
it’s all cream carpeting and beige walls and looks like it could
belong to any boutique real estate firm or law office, albeit
one with a compulsive neat freak at the helm. Relatively
speaking, it’s a soothing place to confront questions about the
incredible power and wealth one can amass on Wall Street, even
as the rest of the economy struggles; the controversial means
sometimes used to achieve it; and how it’s possible to lose so
much money so quickly.  Avoiding Publicity  Persuading Paulson to discuss these issues isn’t easy. “I
avoid the media,” he says, which is an understatement.  While many people beyond finance have heard his name, he
has never given a television interview, and he says people
rarely recognize him on the street, which he appreciates.
Although, he adds, “I’m not sure that actually helps me. Not
participating might make the media more interested.”  After his success in 2007, the amount of money in his funds
grew to more than $30 billion. Things went swimmingly until 2011
came along. His two largest funds, Paulson Advantage and
Advantage Plus, lost 36 percent and 52 percent that year, and
the red streak has continued into 2012, with Advantage and
Advantage Plus down 6.3 percent and 9.3 percent as of the end of
May.  Projecting Optimism  Paulson is trying to project optimism. “I think we’re back
on track,” he says, “and I’m actually quite excited about our
portfolio.”  Flanked by his jumpy colleagues, Paulson drums his fingers
frantically on the table as he talks, suggesting someone who
feels his time would be better spent doing pretty much anything
else. He sits back in his seat and stops drumming and banging
for a second.  “Sometimes it’s difficult to interpret the markets, so
we’re not going to play a winning hand every day. Our goal is
not to outperform all the time -- that’s not possible. We want
to outperform over time.”  Not everyone is willing to wait. One institutional
investor, whose firm withdrew its money from Paulson’s funds in
2011, says that most hedge funds follow a familiar developmental
pattern. During the first stage, funds often improve quickly,
but they’re also small and therefore difficult for large
institutions to invest in. The second stage is when the fund’s
managers are working hard and have shown some success; that’s
when the upward curve is steepest, and the most astute investors
get in. Stage three, which the institutional investor called
“cresting,” usually comes after the fund has become quite
large and performance starts to drop off.  ‘Stage Four’  By stage four, fund managers are wealthy and acquiring
trophies like baseball teams, says the investor, who asked not
to be identified because it might affect his company’s
relationships with other funds. At stages three and four,
performance tends to deteriorate, though not always, the
investor says. In deciding to pull its money, the investor says
his firm believed Paulson & Co. had arrived at stage three or
four.  Paulson acknowledges that he and his firm made mistakes,
underestimating the crisis in Europe and trying to ride an
economic rebound that never came rather than maintaining the
more conservative strategy he was previously known for. He says
that he’s turning things around and that people who are giving
up on him are making a mistake.  Future Focus  “We had built up a great track record—in 18 years, we only
had two down years, one of which was last year,” Paulson says.
“That drawdown was disappointing, but you can’t think about the
past. You have to think about the future.”  In the early days, the hedge-fund industry was a cul-de-sac
of nerds and misfits who didn’t care for the sclerotic politics
of the big investment banks. Hedge funds are investment pools
that cater to the wealthy and typically charge 1 percent or 2
percent of assets as a management fee and 20 percent of the
annual profits.  The moneymaking potential can be enormous. As Sebastian Mallaby points out in “More Money Than God: Hedge Funds and the
Making of a New Elite” (Penguin Press/Bloomsbury, 2010),
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. paid its chief executive officer,  Lloyd Blankfein , $54 million in 2006, which seems crazy enough. But
the same year the lowest earner on Alpha magazine’s top-25
hedge-fund list made $240 million.  Queens Upbringing  Many funds that began as mini-rogue states in the 1990s,
whose managers wore flip-flops to work, have grown into slick
multibillion-dollar operations that resemble the same investment
banks they broke from.  After a middle-class upbringing in Queens, a degree from
 New York University , and a distinguished showing at  Harvard
Business School  -- he was a Baker Scholar, in the top 5 percent
of his class -- Paulson set out to join the ranks of the
incredibly rich. He worked briefly at Boston Consulting Group
and then with a firm called Odyssey Partners, where he helped
assemble leveraged buyouts. In 1984 he took a job at Bear
Stearns Cos. as an investment banker, then four years later left
for investment firm Gruss & Co. By 1994, Paulson had enough
money to go out on his own.  Risk Arbitrage  He started Paulson & Co. with $2 million of his own and
family and friends’ capital. His focus was risk arbitrage -- the
plodding, almost dorky, method of betting on the shares of
merging companies. Arbitragers are a group of opportunists
generally resented by company managements, and their strategy is
simple: Wait until one company announces that it’s buying
another, rush to purchase the target company’s shares, short the
acquirer’s stock (unless it’s a cash deal), and then earn the
differential between the two share prices when the merger
closes.  It is one of the most conservative investment strategies,
where profits and losses have little to do with the rest of the
market. There are no derivatives and no fancy computer programs
involved. Sometimes the amount earned is as little as 10 cents a
share, but if done enough times and with leverage, it can add up
to something respectable, if not spectacular. The risk is that a
deal might not actually happen as expected, because of some
regulatory hurdle or the poor performance of one of the
companies. If a merger falls apart, the two companies’ stock
prices usually move away from each other, potentially creating
massive losses.  Cracking Jokes  Paulson became known as one of the more aggressive of the
“arbs,” trying to ferret out deals that were likely to
escalate into bidding wars or even divine which companies might
get taken over. When his small firm was one of a dozen or so
tucked inside 277 Park Ave. in  New York City , where I used to
work at the hedge fund next door, he tended to charm and crack
jokes when encountered in the hallway. At the same time, he was
known to deal poorly with disappointment: On occasion, after a
particularly difficult day in the market -- when cigar smoke
could be detected coming from the short-only fund across the
hall -- you could hear Paulson yelling at one of his analysts
for blowing a trade.  His fund did well, growing to $300 million in assets by
2003. He married his assistant Jenny, had two daughters, and
raised more money. When asked today what he thinks made him so
successful, Paulson says that it was a “secret sauce” of
“experience, focus, smarts, and desire.” That and his ability
to find what he and his marketing folks like to call
“asymmetrical trades,” where there is great profit potential
and little risk.  Paolo Pellegrini  Over the course of 2005, 2006, and into 2007, at the urging
of an analyst named Paolo Pellegrini, Paulson looked into
shorting the inflated national real estate market. Pellegrini
crunched data and educated himself and his boss about credit-
default swaps, then an obscure contract one could buy to insure
the value of bonds, which presented one of the few ways to
profit from a potential decline in housing prices. Paulson
fended off skepticism and even hostility from investors who were
confused about what he was up to as he built up huge positions
against billions of dollars worth of mortgage bonds, a play that
formed the basis of the book, “The Greatest Trade Ever”
(Broadway Books, 2009), by Gregory Zuckerman.  It took some time before the crumbling real estate market
translated into hard profits, but it finally did: In 2007 the
firm earned approximately $15 billion across all of its funds,
20 percent of which Paulson got to keep for himself and his
employees. It was a performance one would be hard-pressed to
repeat.  Asymmetrical Return  “We were only able to do that because it was a very
asymmetrical return, so we could take a very large position, and
if we were right it could produce extraordinary profits, but if
we were wrong, we’d barely notice the cost of the premium,”
Paulson says now. “Those types of investments don’t come around
very often.”  Paulson may have a rare analytical gift, but he is either
unwilling or incapable of turning it on himself. When asked what
it was like to go from being an unknown investor to a semi-
celebrity, he pauses for what feels like a long time. He then
starts banging his hands loudly on the table in front of him and
lets out a huge sigh.  “How would you answer that?” he says, turning to the two
men next to him.  “I don’t think you’ve changed or the firm’s changed,” his
PR consultant says hesitantly.  Paulson pauses again. “I’m not sure how the visibility
felt,” he says, “but achieving our investment goals for
ourselves and our investors felt great.”  Distressed Debt  The fund continued to make money in 2008 and 2009 as
Paulson bought up distressed debt in financial companies and
bank and insurance stocks. Resentment also started to build
around him. He was asked to appear before Congress with other
hedge-fund managers, where members of the House Committee on
Oversight and Government Reform demanded to know how he had made
so much money as the economy was falling apart.  “You make a billion dollars, yet your rate can be as low
as 15 percent,” said Representative  Elijah Cummings  (D-Md.) at
one point, referring to taxes. “Do you think that’s fair?”  Paulson, looking annoyed with his arms crossed defensively,
said, “I believe our tax situation is fair,” before suggesting
that teachers and plumbers could buy stocks and enjoy the same
lower long-term tax rates that he does.  By 2010, Paulson’s was one of the largest hedge funds in
the world, with $32 billion spread across five strategies. In
part this was the result of a rush of new investors, but it was
also because of the growth of the firm’s own employees’ money --
including Paulson’s -- which he says now makes up almost 60
percent of the assets under management.  Size Handicap  Size can be a handicap, as  Warren Buffett  seems to note
every year in his annual letter. “Clearly, the bigger you get,
the harder it is to generate alpha,” says Jim Liew, a professor
of hedge fund strategies at New York University’s Stern School
of Business, referring to the ability of a fund to outperform
the market as a whole. “If you look at the largest 10 hedge
funds, five of them won’t be there in 10 years. It’s that
difficult to stay at the top.”  Steven Cohen , the head of the giant hedge fund SAC Capital
Advisors, acknowledged as much in a 2010 article in Vanity Fair
when he said, “We’re not going to generate those larger numbers
now that we are bigger.”  Paulson counters that his fund had more than $30 billion
from 2008 through 2010, some of its best years. “I don’t think
it makes any difference at our current size,” he says.  SEC Claims  On April 16, 2010, the Securities and Exchange Commission
brought a suit against Goldman Sachs over the way that it had
marketed a collateralized-debt obligation called Abacus that was
tied to a group of subprime residential mortgages. In 2007, the
SEC alleged, Paulson had suggested mortgage securities he felt
were likely to experience “credit events,” and Goldman had
bundled them together and sold them to other investors without
telling them that Paulson had helped select the securities or
that he had done so to profit from their decline.     Paulson
paid Goldman $15 million for putting the deal together, and
investors such as foreign banks IKB Deutsche Industriebank and
ABN Amro and New York insurance company ACA Financial Guaranty
allegedly lost a total of $1 billion. (Goldman paid $550 million
to settle the claims and said that it should have disclosed
Paulson’s involvement to investors, according to an SEC press
release.) Paulson and his firm were never accused of any
wrongdoing, but the case did little to help his profile.  Paulson Incensed  According to a person familiar with Paulson’s thinking at
the time who asked not to be identified, Paulson and his team
were incensed over being implicated in the SEC’s case at all.  “Paulson is not the subject of this complaint, made no
representations, and is not the subject of any charges,”
Paulson said in a statement at the time. “Paulson did not
sponsor or initiate Goldman’s Abacus program.”  Paulson himself entered 2011 feeling sure of himself. He
boasted in an investor letter about generating $8.4 billion in
gains, before fees, for investors in the previous year, and he
was dashing off op-eds telling the world what it should do to
fix its economic problems (“Europe needs a firewall to
stabilise markets,” read one exhortation in the Financial
Times). He felt that he was within reach of his lifelong goal of
becoming one of the greatest Wall Street moneymakers of all
time.  Bank Stocks  Paulson had made his fortune through clever yet limited
investments. But now he started making riskier gambles. His
funds built up large holdings of bank stocks, such as Bank of
America Corp.,  Wells Fargo & Co ., JPMorgan Chase & Co., and
Capital One Financial Corp.; gold mining stocks, which were
expected to increase in value in the face of inflation; and
bonds of either the high-yield or distressed variety.  One snapshot of the firm’s growing presence in the debt
markets came in Paulson & Co.’s 2010 year-end report, which
identified newly promoted partner Brad Rosenberg, global head of
fixed-income trading, as having traded over $100 billion of
fixed-income securities. But most of the firm’s big “macro”
investments performed poorly as the market gyrated and the
European economic crisis worsened.  Paulson’s investment in Sino-Forest Corp., a Chinese timber
company that traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange, was a herald
of disaster. According to a June 2011 memo Paulson sent to his
investors, he became interested in Sino-Forest in 2007 after
reading a Bloomberg News article suggesting that the company
might be taken over. There was no dipping his wingtip in: By May
of 2011, Paulson’s Advantage funds were the largest shareholders
in Sino-Forest, with 31 million shares, or 12.5 percent of the
company.  Sino-Forest Plummets  In June, Carson Block, a short-seller who runs a firm
called Muddy Waters Research, issued a negative research report
on Sino-Forest, questioning the company’s financial statements
and accusing it of pretending to own forest lands in China that
it didn’t. Sino-Forest denied the allegations. The stock
plummeted.  Paulson scrambled to get out of his entire position that
month, and the fund realized a loss of C$106 million (about the
equivalent in U.S. dollars). In May 2012, the Ontario Securities
Commission, Canada’s primary financial regulator, filed fraud
charges against Sino-Forest. A former Paulson investor named
Hugh Culverhouse Jr. has since filed a lawsuit in U.S. District
Court in Miami, alleging that Paulson & Co. did not conduct
proper due diligence before making the investment. “We firmly
believe that the lawsuit is completely without merit and that
there is no basis in law or fact for the action,” Paulson’s
firm said in response.  Investor Withdrawals  A number of Paulson’s investors who had piled into the fund
after 2007 have liquidated their holdings, including the Public
Employees Retirement Association of New Mexico, the nonprofit
Ascension Health, the Philadelphia Board of Pensions and
Retirement, and several hedge funds that invest in other hedge
funds.  “We know that about investing with John Paulson. He makes
macroeconomic calls,” says Joelle Mevi, the chief investment
officer of the New Mexico PERA. But “we started to notice a
consistent underperformance of the fund, and we were noticing a
bit of style drift” -- investor-speak for getting into areas
outside one’s expertise. And, Mevi says, “The Sino-Forest issue
was notable.”  “If you’re going to come in and then leave, come in and
leave, I don’t think you’ll reap the benefits of investing with
us,” Paulson says. “Investors that do the best, and have done
the best, are those that stay and compound at above-average
rates over the long term.”  Maligned 1%  As 2011 ground on, millions of Americans lost their homes,
and debates about economic inequality and the paychecks of Wall
Street speculators simmered across the country. Paulson, who had
accumulated a $24.5 million house in Aspen in 2010 and a $41
million spread in Southampton in 2008, became a symbol of the
much maligned 1 percent -- more like 0.001 percent, in his case.
Last fall his 28,500-square-foot Upper East Side townhouse on
East 86th Street, which he purchased for $14.7 million in 2004,
was visited by  Occupy Wall Street , which included him on a list
of targets along with News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch , Koch
Industries head  David Koch , and JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon.  When he’s asked what it was like to have his townhouse
picketed, Paulson displays more emotion than at any other time
during our talk. “I think it’s somewhat misguided,” he says,
growing agitated. “We pay a lot of taxes, especially living in
New York—there’s an almost 13 percent city and state tax rate.
Most jurisdictions would want to have successful companies like
ours located there. I’m sure if we wanted to go to Singapore,
they’d roll out the red carpet to attract us.” He goes on, “We
choose to stay here and then, you know, get yelled at. I think
that’s misdirecting their anger at the wrong place.”  Fund Losses  The Paulson funds ended the year in the red. It is
difficult  to identify the exact amount of money lost, but
according to Paulson’s investor reports, his funds had $13.2
billion less in assets at the end of 2011 than at the end of
2010. But while Paulson experienced one of the worst dollar-
losses in hedge-fund history, his fund’s $22.6 billion gain over
its lifespan was still the third-highest for investors,
according to LCH Investments. According to Forbes, Paulson’s net
worth is $12.5 billion, down from a peak of $16 billion in March
2011.  The 101-page report that Paulson sent to his investors at
the end of the year took a humble tone. The firm had made four
major mistakes, according to Paulson, “overweighting long event
equity,” underestimating Europe’s debt crisis, overestimating
the  U.S. economy , and some plain-old terrible stock picking.  “Our performance in 2011 was clearly unacceptable,” he
wrote. “However, we believe 2011 will be an aberration in our
long-term performance.”  Paulson’s Picks  On May 16, Paulson appeared for the first time at the Ira
Sohn investment conference, an annual ritual in which celebrated
fund managers present ideas for the sake of a children’s
charity. In rock concert style, the agenda tends to be
backloaded, with the best-known acts coming on later -- thus
Paulson was almost last, at 5 p.m. The crowd at  Avery Fisher
Hall  in Manhattan’s  Lincoln Center  noticeably thickened before
he took the stage, which he finally did in a gray suit. In his
quiet, even voice, he walked the audience through several
investments.  One was Caesars Entertainment, a casino owner in which
Paulson is the second-largest shareholder, with 9.87 percent of
the shares outstanding. Another was CVR Energy, a gas-refining
company in which Paulson built up a 9.9 percent stake before it
was bought out by  Carl Icahn . The third investment was AngloGold
Ashanti, a global gold mining company in which Paulson is the
largest single shareholder, with 33 million shares.  Gold Bet  “The stock has not been a good performer,” he conceded at
the conference, before urging everyone in attendance to buy in.
“The share price hasn’t correlated with the gold price.”  Gold is Paulson’s biggest, boldest -- and most simplistic -
- idea in several years: The wild volatility of many gold stocks
is part of the reason for the continuing slide in several
Paulson funds. In addition to the Paulson Gold Funds, which were
launched in 2010, almost a quarter of the Advantage funds were
invested in “gold event” in 2012, according to investor
communications. When Morgan Stanley Smith Barney sent an
internal memo to its financial advisers on April 17 announcing
that it would not accept any more investments for the Paulson
Advantage funds through its HedgePremier platform, gold was
cited as an area of concern.  Many ‘Errors’  During 2011 and into 2012, “the Manager has made a number
of market timing errors,” the memo read. It added that the fund
seemed far too concentrated in gold-mining stocks: “The Funds’
near-term performance is largely dependent upon a single sector
that has generated negative results throughout 2011, and again
in 2012. There does not appear to be an obvious catalyst for
reversal in the near term.”  “We view gold as a currency, not a commodity,” Paulson
says. “Its importance as a currency will continue to increase
as the major central banks around the world continue to print
money.”  He adds that as the market keeps shuddering, demand for
gold will stay high, and soon enough all of his depressed gold
holdings should shoot up. He also thinks that anyone in Greece,
Italy, and France should pull all their money out of the banking
system and purchase gold bars before the Continent collapses.  Traditional Strategy  Paulson says he’s trying to get out of the fortune-telling
business and that his funds are now much less dependent on
reading the economic future: “We’ve gone back to our
traditional strategy, which is operating with smaller amounts of
net exposure, and hedges in the portfolio.”  There are hints that it may be working. After a brutal
April, the downswing in his funds leveled off in May, although
his gold fund continued to slide. His general views on the U.S.
economy would seem to echo what some investors may be feeling
about their Paulson holdings: It’s “doing OK, but it’s not as
strong as people would like.”  Now that he does indeed have more money than God, Paulson
is casting about, trying to figure out how to best deploy his
influence. Like many a Wall Street billionaire before him, he is
wading into politics: He and his employees have been
contributing heavily to House Speaker  John Boehner , and in 2011
he personally donated $1 million to the pro-Mitt Romney super
PAC Restore Our Future. On April 26, Paulson hosted a fundraiser
for the GOP presidential candidate at his New York townhouse.  15-Bedroom Palace  Less than two weeks later, media outlets reported that he’d
spent $49 million purchasing two more properties in Aspen from a
Saudi prince, including a 90-acre plot with a 15-bedroom, 16-
bathroom palace on it. The 56,000-square-foot main building,
which Paulson says he plans to downsize, is larger than the
White House and includes horse stables and a water-treatment
plant. At one point it had been considered the most expensive
private residence for sale in the country, but Paulson acquired
it well below its original $135 million asking price.  He’s ruled out the possibility of a Paulson & Co. initial
public offering any time soon  -- “I don’t think hedge funds
belong as public companies” -- but he says he’d be “very
happy” to see the firm continue after he retires. Which won’t
be anytime soon, by the way.  “I’m still relatively young, you know, being 56,” he
says. “If you look at Soros -- he’s 81, I think. Buffett, he’s
81.”   “How old is Icahn?” Even though he could easily stop
working, he can’t imagine it. “Some people like playing chess,
some like backgammon. This is like a game, and playing games is
fun,” he says, dispensing with any niceties about serving his
clients. “It’s more fun when you win.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheelah Kolhatkar in New York at 
 skolhatkar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bryant Urstadt at 
 burstadt@bloomberg.net  