-- Paul Finds Success Through Obstruction of Senate Bills
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2012-06-28T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/paul-finds-success-through-obstruction-of-senate-bills.html
In an age of voter disgust at
Congress’s inability to get anything done, Senator  Rand Paul  is
finding success through obstruction.  Paul, a Kentucky Republican, is developing a following that
rivals the one devoted to his father, presidential candidate and
Texas Representative  Ron Paul . The younger Paul has done it, in
part, by repeatedly insisting that Senate leaders schedule votes
on amendments he’s pursuing on issues such as abortion or gun
rights -- or he’ll delay major, bipartisan legislation.  This week, as the Senate convened to pass a backlog of
bills before the Fourth of July holiday, Paul demanded a
guaranteed vote first on defining life as starting at
conception, as part of a bill renewing national flood insurance.
Majority Leader  Harry Reid  postponed the debate rather than
yield to what he called in a June 26 floor speech a
“ridiculous” request.  Paul has used similar tactics to try to cut aid to  Egypt 
and  Pakistan , bolster gun rights, reduce union membership among
Washington residents and highlight privacy concerns connected
with proposed changes to a U.S.- Switzerland   tax treaty .  Congress had an approval rating that averaged 14 percent in
Gallup polls over the first six months of this year, hovering
near record lows. For individual lawmakers, there’s much to be
gained at the expense of institutional efficiency.  With his stands, the Kentucky lawmaker is raising his
profile among his state’s residents and voters nationally who
savor Paul’s confrontations with a government they see as too
big and unresponsive, said Gregg Keller, national executive
director of the  American Conservative Union .  ‘Our People’  “He has established himself in a very short time as one of
the very important voices of American conservatism,” Keller
said. “He’s absolutely right on principle and he’s speaking a
language our people understand.”  The Washington-based group gave Paul a 100 percent approval
rating and had him as a featured speaker at its Conservative
Political Action Conference earlier this month in  Chicago .  Last year, Paul helped create the Senate Tea Party Caucus,
a wing of the limited-government political movement that helped
Paul beat Kentucky Secretary of State Trey Grayson, who was
backed by the Republican establishment, in the 2010 primary.  Paul’s tactics sometimes have generated consternation even
among fellow Republicans.  Senator Lindsey Graham  fought Paul when the Kentucky
lawmaker attempted to block an  Iran  sanctions bill. Paul should
realize the amendment strategy sometimes can backfire, Graham
said.  Paul Amendment  “He will use tactics available to every senator to be able
to be heard,” said Graham, a South Carolina Republican. “He
can expect that other people who disagree with him will use
tactics to run him over.”  In the flood insurance fight, Paul refused to agree to a
motion to begin debate on the bill before the full Senate until
his amendment was considered. Without the consent of all
senators, Reid faced the possibility of having to spend a week
on the floor garnering support for debate on the legislation to
begin.  The Paul amendment states that the U.S.  Constitution  grants
a right to life for human beings, which are defined as “each
and every member of the species homo sapiens at all stages of
life, including, but not limited to, the moment of
fertilization,” or cloning or any other start in the process of
creating a human.  ‘Different Style’  The amendment is a “serious” attempt to get the Senate to
vote on a top concern of many Americans, said Moira Bagley, a
Paul spokeswoman.  “It is an important issue that deserves the time of the
Senate to debate,” she said. Also, “the amount of Senate time
taken to address this would be minimal.”  Senator  James Inhofe , an Oklahoma Republican who backs the
amendment’s anti-abortion sentiment and praises Paul, in
general, for doing a “good job,” said he would have proceeded
differently.  “I wouldn’t have done it that way, and there’s no one
who’s more pro-life than I am,” he said. “It’s a different
style, I’d guess you’d say.”  Paul is using options available to all senators and isn’t
causing any hardship to coastal homeowners because the current
flood insurance program doesn’t expire until the end of next
month, Senator Richard Burr said.  “This is the way Democrats and Republicans have been
historically acting,” said Burr, a North Carolina Republican.
“I want to preserve that right” for a single senator to object
to legislation.  Confrontation Fizzles  Paul’s effort to provoke a confrontation fizzled as House
and Senate negotiators yesterday worked to finalize an agreement
to combine the flood insurance bill with highway and student-
loan legislation.  He employs similar tactics in the committees he serves on.  At the request of Washington city officials,  Joseph Lieberman , the Connecticut independent who heads the Senate
 Homeland Security  and Governmental Affairs Committee, on June 26
pulled consideration of a bill to avoid votes on several Paul
amendments. The measure in limbo would give the Washington city
government more say in how it spends money.  The Paul amendments would let Washington residents obtain
concealed weapon permits for handguns; honor such permits from
other states; codify a ban on city-funded abortions; and
prohibit workers from joining a labor union as a precondition
for employment.  Foreign Policy  Several of Paul’s amendments are focused on foreign
affairs.  He successfully got a provision attached to the Iranian
sanctions bill that said the measure couldn’t be interpreted as
an authorization to use force.  At Graham’s insistence, though, President  Barack Obama ’s
vow that he would “take no options off the table” to prevent
Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon also was added.  If he fails to get a vote, Paul doesn’t give up. Before he
was unsuccessful in attaching sanctions against Pakistan to the
farm bill, the senator already was looking ahead to make it part
of a foreign operations spending measure.  “We’re going to fight wherever we can put it on,” he said
on June 13. “We also may try to bring it up individually as a
bill.”  Paul’s proposal would cut off aid to Pakistan as a way to
pressure that government to release a doctor who provided U.S.
officials with intelligence that may have helped them locate
 Osama bin Laden , the al-Qaeda leader who was killed in a May
2011 raid by American special forces.  Pakistani Doctor  The doctor, Shakil Afridi, has been sentenced to 33 years
in prison in Pakistan for ties to a now-defunct militant group,
which Afridi has denied.  An amendment sponsored by Paul to cut off aid to Egypt
failed in April to become part of a bill to overhaul the U.S.
Postal Service. The Paul provision would block $2 billion in aid
until Egypt stops attempting to prosecute pro-democracy workers
who had been detained there earlier this year.  Privacy concerns spurred Paul to refuse to consent to floor
debate on an amendment to a U.S.-Swiss treaty, slowing
Switzerland’s handover of data on thousands of Americans with
bank accounts hidden from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service.  Graham said it might be productive to work together more
with Paul, particularly on their shared goal of reining in
domestic spending.  “He’ll take on anything” such as Social Security,
Medicare and other entitlements, Graham said. “He knows no
fear. I like that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  