-- PBG Chief Executive Wisniewski Steps Down After Bankruptcy
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i   a n d   M a r t a   W a l d o c h
-- 2012-06-28T14:26:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/pbg-chief-executive-wisniewski-steps-down-after-bankruptcy-1-.html
PBG SA (PBG)  Chief Executive Officer Jerzy Wisniewski and Chief Financial Officer Przemyslaw Szkudlarczyk
stepped down after the Polish builder was declared bankrupt.  Wisniewski, who founded the company with his wife in 1994,
and Szkudlarczyk will join PBG’s supervisory board, the
company’s shareholders decided at today’s meeting in Warsaw. The
board may appoint their replacements as early as tomorrow,
Szkudlarczyk said in an interview.  PBG, which specialized in oil and gas engineering, ventured
out of its core business to bid on arena and motorway deals
after Poland was selected to co-host the Euro 2012 soccer
championship, only to see its debt swell on falling margins. The
company built three of the country’s four stadiums for the
tournament that ends on July 1.  The builder is looking for “the quickest way” to sell
assets that are not related to its main activities, including
investments in real estate, Szkudlarczyk told shareholders. PBG
is also talking with a potential strategic investor as it seeks
to resolve its dispute with banks, Wisniewski said.  “The management is convinced that the company’s operations
will continue,” Szkudlarczyk said. “The option of obtaining an
investor is still a possibility.”  PBG’s 1.5 billion zloty ($435 million) of debt includes 825
million zloty in  bonds  making it the biggest corporate zloty
bond bankruptcy, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Its
shares fell 92 percent this year valuing the company at 83.3
million zloty.  After  Poland  won the right to host the European
championships in 2007, PBG’s market value hit a record 5.8
billion zloty, the data shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  