-- Pena Nieto Poised to Return Mexico’s Once-Lofty PRI to Power
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-06-28T14:47:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/pena-nieto-poised-to-return-mexico-s-once-lofty-pri-to-power-1-.html
Mexican presidential front-runner
Enrique Pena Nieto built his campaign on the promise that his
once-dominant party has evolved and can rise above a history of
corruption and cronyism. In four days, voters probably will give
him the chance to prove it.  Polls show Pena Nieto leading his nearest rival by more
than 10 percentage points ahead of the July 1 vote as he seeks
to propel the  Institutional Revolutionary Party , or PRI, to
victory for the first time since 1994. The PRI ruled alone for
71 years until 2000, and Pena Nieto has faced attacks from
rivals and protests warning that he’ll erode civil liberties and
revive corruption that thrived under the previous regime.  While some of the PRI’s older leaders may try to turn back
time, the opening of  Mexico ’s economy over the past two decades
has given rise to younger leaders like the 45-year-old Pena
Nieto, making a return to authoritarian rule unlikely, said
 James Jones , a former U.S. ambassador to Mexico.  “It’s almost impossible for the PRI or anyone to turn back
the clock,” Jones, who served in Mexico City when the  North
American Free Trade Agreement  took effect in 1994, said in a
phone interview from  London . “The institutions of democracy
have become so entrenched that I don’t see them changing.”  Election Pledges  Pena Nieto has led polls since the race began, fueled by
pledges to boost salaries held back by economic growth that
averaged 1.8 percent a year since President  Felipe Calderon  took
office in 2006. That’s half the rate of  Brazil ’s 4.1 percent
average over that period, though Mexico has caught up in the
past two years. The former governor of Mexico state has also
promised to turn the tide in a drug war blamed for more than
47,000 deaths under Calderon.  Pena Nieto had 39.5 percent support in the final poll by
Mexico City-based GEA-ISA taken June 25-27.  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador , 58, who charged fraud after losing to Calderon by less
than a percentage point in 2006, had 24.1 percent support and
Josefina Vazquez Mota, 51, of Calderon’s  National Action Party ,
or  PAN , had 18.9 percent backing. The poll of 1,144 registered
voters had a three percentage-point margin of error.  Stronger Peso  Investors are taking the election in stride. Mexico’s peso
has rallied 3.3 percent in the past six months, the best
performance of 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg. That
compares to a slump of 6.3 percent in the half year prior to the
previous presidential election in 2006, when Lopez Obrador led
many polls with a promise to put the poor first.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch said in a report this week
that the “mere perception that the country is moving forward
under strong leadership” by Pena Nieto could boost confidence
among the 112 million Mexicans and help advance a pro-business
overhaul that proved elusive under Calderon, like easing
Petroleos Mexicanos’ oil monopoly.  While  Europe ’s debt crisis spurred a 13 percent drop in the
MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index of developing nation stocks over the
past three months, Mexico’s IPC index has gained 1.4 percent.
Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg forecast Mexico’s gross domestic
product will expand 3.7 percent in 2012, outpacing growth in
Brazil for a second straight year.  Mexican peso bonds have returned 11 percent in dollar terms
this year, compared with a gain of 2.1 percent for local-
currency emerging-market debt, according to Bank of America.  If elected, Pena Nieto has pledged to raise salaries and
support legislation making it easier to hire and fire workers,
which would lure more companies into the formal economy. He also
said he plans to allow private investment in the oil industry.  Drug War  Pena Nieto has said he will change the emphasis of the drug
war, reducing violence by focusing on the worst crimes such as
murder and kidnapping and eventually return the army to the
barracks. In a Bloomberg interview in November, he rejected as
“nonsense” and “propaganda” accusations by his rivals that
he’ll negotiate with criminal gangs.  “I’m part of a generation that has grown up in a
democracy, and I aspire to be a president who governs respecting
liberties,” Pena Nieto said in a speech in Mexico City on June
24.  Growing ties with the rest of the world over the past two
decades, most notably through Nafta, have made any drift from
current policy unlikely and expose Mexico to greater outside
scrutiny, said Jones, whose Manatt Jones Global Strategies
consultancy helps companies expand in  Latin America .  Student Protests  Any attempt to repress freedoms would also face resistance
from a wary populace after 90,000 students gathered in the
Zocalo, the capital’s main square, to protest against the PRI’s
return earlier this month.  Mexico has changed in other ways as well. While the PRI may
regain the presidency, its grip on power will be checked by an
opposition that controls 12 of Mexico’s 32 states, including
Mexico City. Like Calderon, the next president may also face a
divided Congress.  Institutions like the central bank, media and antitrust
watchdog face less government interference than they did in the
days when PRI presidents would handpick their successor, says
former Foreign Minister Jorge Castaneda.  “To fear an authoritarian restoration would be to deny
everything that we have all achieved over the last 12 years,”
Castaneda, who served as foreign minister under the PAN
government of President Vicente Fox, wrote in an op-ed article
published June 22 on the Los Angeles Times website.  Congress  To push his agenda Pena Nieto will need the support of
Calderon’s party, which makes the race for second place key.
While the latest Mitofsky poll shows the PRI-Green Party
coalition garnering at least 274 of the 500 seats in the lower
house, that’s short of the two-thirds majority needed to amend
the constitution, a move required to end Pemex’s monopoly.  A stronger finish by  Lopez Obrador , who opposes more
private investment in the oil industry, could cost the PAN seats
in Congress. Many of Pena Nieto’s proposals “are not too
different” to ones proposed by Fox and Calderon, JPMorgan Chase
& Co. said in June 22 report.  1968 Massacre  Vazquez Mota has tried to lift her candidacy by reminding
voters of the PRI’s past, citing in a June 10 debate the 1968
massacre in Mexico City’s Tlatelolco Square when the military
killed hundreds of students protesting anti-democratic practices
days before the city hosted the  Olympic Games . Pena Nieto was 2
years old at the time.  Pena Nieto is “a young man with old ways,” she told a
cheering crowd of more than 40,000 at a rally in Mexico City’s
bull ring on June 23. “This candidate represents corruption,
authoritarianism and surrender before organized crime.”  The PRI has continued to be dogged by accusations of
corruption. U.S. federal prosecutors last month filed civil
charges against Tomas Yarrington, a former governor in the
border state of Tamaulipas who allegedly used millions of
dollars in bribes from cartels to invest in Texas real estate.
While Yarrington denies the accusations, the PRI suspended him
and Pena Nieto has said justice must take its course.  Far from foreshadowing challenges for Mexicans’ liberties,
Pena Nieto’s election in a free and fair election would show
that Mexico’s democracy is working because voters are rejecting
PAN policies that escalated drug violence and failed to boost
growth, said Rosalba Laguna, a social work professor at the
National Autonomous University of Mexico.  “The PAN had their chance as an alternative,” Laguna said
in an interview at a PRI rally at Mexico City’s Azteca stadium.
“The PRI has people who know how to govern.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 