-- Petronas Agrees to Buy Canada’s Progress Energy
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-06-28T23:27:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/petronas-agrees-to-buy-canada-s-progress-energy-for-4-7-billion.html
Petroliam Nasional Bhd,  Malaysia ’s
state-owned oil and natural-gas company, agreed to buy  Progress
Energy Resources Corp. (PRQ)  for C$4.8 billion ($4.6 billion), in its
biggest deal as it moves to export Canadian gas to  Asia .  Petronas, as the Kuala Lumpur-based company is known,
offered C$20.45-a-share for Progress Energy, 77 percent more
than its close before the deal. Including convertible
debentures, the deal is valued at about C$5.5 billion, Calgary-
based Progress Energy said in a statement yesterday.  Buying the company gives Petronas Chief Executive Officer
Shamsul Azhar Abbas ownership of the largest holder in the
Montney shale-gas area of British Columbia and full control of
the three Progress Energy fields it bought a stake in last year
as it explores development of a liquefied natural gas export
terminal. Asian buyers have been lured to  North America  by gas
prices that are about 88 percent cheaper.  “The proposed transaction will combine Petronas’s
significant global expertise and leadership in developing LNG
infrastructure with Progress’s extensive experience in
unconventional resource development,” Datuk Anuar Ahmad,
executive vice president of Petronas’s gas and power business,
said in the statement.  Asian Investment  Progress Energy  rose  74 percent to C$20.05 at the close
yesterday in Toronto. It’s a record gain for the company, which
had dropped 13 percent this year.  Petronas joins Asian peers including PetroChina Co.,
Mitsubishi Corp. and Cnooc Ltd. in seeking production in North
America. Alberta gas futures prices were $1.93 per million
British thermal units on June 27.  Japan , the largest LNG
importer,  paid  $16.78 per million Btu including freight costs as
of April 30.  Including debt, Petronas is paying 23 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. That’s 66
percent more than the average of 10 comparable deals announced
since 2003, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The purchase is more than double the company’s biggest
deal, the $2 billion acquisition of a 40 percent stake in Santos
Ltd.’s Gladstone LNG project in  Australia  in 2008.  Progress Energy has 1.9 trillion cubic feet of proved and
probable gas reserves and has 820,000 acres in the Montney
shale-gas area. Petronas’s Shamsul said March 30 he was studying
making an acquisition of more than $5 billion as he wants to
expand the company’s presence in  Canada  and Australia.  LNG Site  The companies said they’ve selected a site at Prince
Rupert, British Columbia, for a potential LNG export terminal
and will conduct feasibility studies. Petronas joins groups led
by Houston-based Apache Corp., Royal Dutch Shell Plc and the
U.K.’s BG Group Plc in the race to export gas from Canada’s West
Coast.  Malaysia was the third-largest exporter of LNG in 2010,
after Qatar and  Indonesia , according to the U.S. Energy
Department.  The board of Progress Energy approved the offer and it has
the support of the company’s senior executives and the Canada
Pension Plan Investment Board, which hold on aggregate about 25
percent of the company’s shares, according to the statement. The
transaction is expected to close Sept. 25, subject to government
approval.  Petronas intends to keep all Progress Energy employees,
according to yesterday’s statement.  Under the Investment Canada Act, the federal government
reviews foreign acquisitions of companies with assets valued at
more than C$330 million, according to the Industry Canada
website. The government has never rejected a takeover of an
energy company.  Precedents Set  “There shouldn’t be any blocks to the deal,” said Michael Harvey, a Calgary-based analyst for  RBC Capital Markets . He
rates Progress Energy shares outperform, the equivalent of a
buy, and owns none. “The shareholders will vote for it and
precedents have been set,” he said.  Petronas has the right to match any superior bid for
Progress Energy, according to the statement. Petronas would get
a C$150 million breakup fee if the deal is terminated.  Petronas was advised by  Bank of America  Corp.’s Merrill
Lynch unit and law firm Norton Rose Canada LLP. Progress Energy
was advised by BMO Capital Markets and its board received an
independent fairness opinion from Scotia Waterous. Burnet,
Duckworth & Palmer LLP is its legal counsel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in  New York  at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  