-- TPG Founder Sees Europe Resolving Crisis Amid Risk of Disaster
-- B y   D y l a n   G r i f f i t h s
-- 2012-06-28T12:28:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/tpg-founder-sees-europe-resolving-crisis-amid-risk-of-disaster.html
Europe’s political leaders will
probably resolve the debt crisis amid the risk that the
situation could “blow up,” said  David Bonderman , co-founder of
private-equity firm TPG Capital.  “The odds are that Europe will figure out a solution, but
there is potential for imminent and short-term disaster,”
Bonderman said today at the SuperReturn  Emerging Markets 
conference in Geneva. “You have to price in event risk.”  Europe’s leaders meet in Brussels today as German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  rejects calls to do more to cut the
borrowing costs of Spain and Italy. Merkel is increasingly
isolated as French President  Francois Hollande , Italian Prime
Minister  Mario Monti  and Spanish Premier  Mariano Rajoy  unite to
push for quicker action to ease the crisis that emerged in
Greece in late 2009.  While the crisis poses the greatest macro challenge to
buyout firms such as Fort Worth, Texas-based TPG, Bonderman said
there is limited opportunity to take advantage of  Europe ’s woes
as governments are unwilling to force asset sales.  “Governments have been reluctant to actually push banks to
mark things to market,” he said. “The result is there are
fewer assets coming out than you would have expected.”  Private-equity transactions declined 41 percent to $53.7
billion in the first quarter, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. TPG, founded in 1992, has about $51.5 billion of
capital under management, according to the firm’s website.  Adjusting Expectations  The two most attractive private-equity markets are the
U.S., which has the most liquidity and where “pricing is not
unreasonable,” and high-growth emerging Asia, said Bonderman.
Most African markets are small and can be hard to exit, he said.  Raising capital is the “dominating factor” at a micro
level, said Bonderman, adding that investors must adjust their
expectations to the zero-interest-rate environment.  “People have to ask themselves in the current environment
whether private equity can continue to return 20 percent?” he
said. “If this continues for a long period of time, the answer
has to be no. In fact, people ought to be happy with 12
percent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dylan Griffiths in Geneva  at 
 dgriffiths1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  