-- Philadelphia Orchestra to Exit Bankruptcy, Lawyer Says
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-06-28T19:05:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/philadelphia-orchestra-to-exit-bankruptcy-lawyer-says.html
The Philadelphia Orchestra
Association, the symphony featured in  Walt Disney ’s
“Fantasia,” won court permission to exit bankruptcy after
cutting musicians’ salaries and benefits by about $4 million a
year, the orchestra’s attorney said.  The 112-year-old symphony has already raised the
$3 million needed to pay debts tied to its bankruptcy, allowing
it to leave court protection sometime next month, Lawrence G. McMichael, with the Philadelphia law firm Dilworth Paxson LLP,
said in an interview today.  “We passed the hat around the community and we got people
to donate,” McMichael said.  Orchestras across the U.S., including the seven biggest,
have been cutting costs to balance the quality of their programs
with what the local communities can afford. Philadelphia’s is
the largest orchestra to file bankruptcy.  Leaving bankruptcy will make it easier for the orchestra to
raise the $5 million needed for normal operations this year,
McMichael said. Orchestras, including Philadelphia’s, typically
rely on donations in addition to ticket sales to pay expenses.  Cost Savings  While in bankruptcy, the orchestra eliminated all its debt
and reduced expenses by $6 million a year. In addition to the
labor savings, the orchestra will pay about $1 million less in
annual rent for its main performance space and save about
$1 million a year after ending its relationship with the
Philadelphia Pops, another orchestra.  The orchestra filed for bankruptcy one year ago in
Philadelphia, partly because of the high cost of musicians’
pensions, according to court papers. Two smaller orchestras, in
Louisville,  Kentucky , and Syracuse, New York, also filed for
bankruptcy amid falling attendance and donations.  Philadelphia is among the seven biggest U.S. orchestras,
measured by budget, according to Judith Kurnick, spokeswoman for
the  League of American Orchestras . The others are based in New
York,  Boston ,  Los Angeles , San Francisco, Cleveland and  Chicago .  Under conductor Leopold Stokowski, the orchestra recorded
the music for Disney’s 1940 animated movie,  Fantasia , the first
feature-length film devoted to celebrating classical music.  The case is In re The Philadelphia Orchestra Association,
11-13098,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Eastern District of
Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  