-- Posco Joins Toyota Top Supplier Group, Challenging Nippon Steel
-- B y   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e ,   M a s u m i   S u g a   a n d   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 2012-06-28T04:59:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/posco-joins-toyota-top-supplier-group-challenging-nippon-steel.html
Posco (005490)  became the first non-Japanese
steelmaker to enter a group of  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) 's closest
suppliers, rivaling domestic auto-sheet providers, including
 Nippon Steel Corp. (5401)   The Japanese unit of the  South Korea ’s biggest steelmaker
was formally accepted into the Kyohokai, whose 222  members  are
the top 1 percent of the carmaker's suppliers, group spokesman
Nakaji Honda said. Posco started supplies to the Japanese
factories of  Asia ’s No. 1 carmaker in 2009 and its plants in
Indonesia and  India  in 2003.  The weakening won has made South Korean products cheaper
than Japanese goods, giving Posco an edge over its Japanese
rivals weighed down by the rise in the yen. Being part of the
top suppliers group will enable Posco to win steady orders from
Toyota, which is lifting production in emerging economies, said
Takeshi Miyao, an analyst at a research firm Carnorama  Japan .  “Toyota is undergoing a paradigm shift in purchasing by
breaking up its existing supply chain as it looks for ways to
lower production costs,” Miyao said. “Posco’s entry will have
a negative impact on Japanese steelmakers.”  Toyota sources parts from more than 40,000 suppliers, Miyao
said. The Kyohokai comprises mostly Japanese companies including
Denso Corp., Aisin Seiki Co. and the nation’s five biggest
steelmakers, according to the group’s website.      Overseas
companies in the group include Delphi Automotive Systems Japan
Ltd., a unit of the U.S. parts supplier separated from  General
Motor Co. (GM) , and a unit of German auto-parts supplier  Robert Bosch
GmbH . Posco is the first South Korean company in the group,
Honda said.  Technology Accepted  “Opening an account with Toyota was the first step for
Posco and the invitation into its suppliers group means its
technology level has been accepted,” Miyao said.  Posco’s sheet shipments to Japanese carmakers will rise
after the merger between Nippon Steel and  Sumitomo Metal
Industries Ltd. (5405)  in October as the buyers will probably reshuffle
suppliers to avoid over-reliance on one company, Chris Kim, an
analyst with Seoul-based Samsung Securities Co., said in a June
21 report. The South Korean mill’s sales may rise more than 1.8
million metric tons, lifting operating profit by 400 billion won
($346 million) in the next two years, he said in the report.  “As the merger would force them to rely on one company for
more than 60 percent of their needs, we believe next year they
will turn more to Posco,” Kim said in the report. “With
Japan’s three major carmakers consuming more than 13 million
tons of steel sheets annually, we believe Posco has huge growth
potential.”  Kim Ji Young, a Seoul-based spokeswoman for Posco,
confirmed the company’s entry into the group. She declined to
specify Posco’s supply volume to Toyota.  Open Procurement  “Regardless of regions or nations, Toyota plans to openly
procure parts from competitive suppliers worldwide,” said
Joichi Tachikawa, a spokesman for the carmaker, based in Toyota
city, Aichi prefecture.  The Japanese currency, which gained more than 50 percent in
the past five years, traded at 79.63 to the dollar as of 9:39
a.m. in  Tokyo . The yen reached a postwar high of 75.35 against
the dollar last year. In contrast, the South Korean won has
weakened about 20 percent in the period and traded at 1,153.80.  Nippon Steel President Shoji Muneoka last month called on
the government to take steps to enable domestic manufacturers to
compete with global rivals “on an equal footing.” The strong
yen, rising energy and labor costs and taxes are hindering the
competitiveness of Japanese companies, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at   msuga@bloomberg.net ;
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  