-- Priced-to-Sell Felda Jumps in IPO Debut: Southeast Asia
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2012-06-28T10:09:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/priced-to-sell-felda-jumps-in-ipo-debut-southeast-asia.html
Felda Global Ventures Holdings Bhd. (FGV) ,
the world’s third-biggest oil palm planter, jumped more than 16
percent in its Kuala Lumpur debut, after raising $3.3 billion in
the biggest initial public offering since  Facebook (FB)  Inc.  That was the best first day of all initial public offerings
above $500 million globally this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The stock surged to as high as 5.46
ringgit ($1.71), before paring gains to close at 5.30 ringgit.  “Foreign investors haven’t been allocated sufficient
shares,” said  Alan Richardson , who helps oversee about $87
billion as a  money manager  at Samsung Asset Management Co. in
Singapore. “An over-demand situation is likely.”  Demand from institutions exceeded supply by more than 40
times during the IPO, Felda Chief Executive Officer Sabri Ahmad
said in an interview on June 20. The plantations group priced
the stock below the top of its indicative range, unlike Facebook
which has slumped since its May debut.  State-controlled Felda could have received more than 4.55
ringgit per share from institutions, though decided not to after
allocating 90 percent of the available stock to Malaysian
subscribers, Sabri said. “We wanted to put something on the
table for them to enjoy,” he said.  With a market capitalization of 19.3 billion ringgit, Felda
will qualify to join the 30-member FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI
Index. The benchmark closed 0.5 percent lower today.  Funds that track the gauge would be obliged to buy the
shares in the open market if they failed to get allocation
during the initial sale.  Resilient Market  “People who didn’t get the shares want to,” said Abdul Jalil Abdul Rasheed, who helps manage $3 billion as chief
executive officer of Aberdeen Islamic Asset Management Sdn. in
 Kuala Lumpur .  Malaysia has withstood a global stocks sell-off brought on
by  Europe ’s debt crisis, which has seen at least $12.3 billion
of first-time sales scrapped or delayed globally since the start
of this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The KLCI index touched an intraday record this week, after
foreign funds were net buyers of shares for an eighth straight
month in May, according to the stock exchange’s website. Felda
Global is ranked the equivalent of buy with an average price
target of 5.53 ringgit by four brokerages  surveyed  by Bloomberg,
including Public Investment Bank Bhd.  “The food business is quite resilient to recession,” said
Sabri in Kuala Lumpur. “As long as China and  India  keep on
buying oils and fats, the demand is there. The debt crisis
shouldn’t have a big impact.”  Cornerstone Investors  State funds including Permodalan Nasional Bhd., Lembaga
Tabung Haji and the Employees Provident Fund Board were among
so-called cornerstone investors for its share sale.  “The strength of the Malaysian IPO market is that you have
a lot of domestic liquidity, which ensures that real demand
cannot fully be satisfied,” said Samsung Asset’s Richardson.  IHH Healthcare Bhd.,  Asia ’s biggest hospital operator, has
similarly signed up local pension funds among its 22 cornerstone
investors, for more than 60 percent of its share sale in Kuala
Lumpur next month. IHH plans to raise about 6.4 billion ringgit,
two people familiar with the matter said June 15.  Felda, which also produces rubber and sugar, reported a 46
percent drop in profit to 192.2 million ringgit for the three
months ended March 31. This was partly because of accounting
changes after a business structure revamp, Chief Financial
Officer Ahmad Tifli Mohd Talha said in a phone interview.  Relative Value  The company remains “quite positive” it can still achieve
its full-year profit target this year, Sabri told reporters in
Kuala Lumpur today, without providing an earnings forecast.  The Felda shares were priced at 14.2 times estimated full-
year earnings, a person familiar with the matter said June 14.
This compares with 14.7 times at local rival  Sime Darby Bhd. (SIME) ,
the world’s largest palm-oil company by acreage, and 9.9 times
at Singapore’s Golden Agri-Resources Ltd., data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Facebook’s 28-year-old founder  Mark Zuckerberg  persuaded
investors to pay about  107 times reported earnings , a higher
price-to-earnings multiple than almost every company in the
 Standard & Poor’s  500 index.  Felda “won’t tank, it won’t be like Facebook,” Lye Thim Loong, who helps manage $500 million at Libra Invest Bhd. in
Kuala Lumpur and subscribed for the Malaysian company’s shares,
said before the debut. “It’s not as expensive.”  Felda, the largest shareholder of sugar refiner  MSM
Malaysia Holdings Bhd. (MSM) , has 355,864 hectares (879,359 acres) of
leased or managed palm and rubber plantations in the Southeast
Asian nation.  It also has land in  Indonesia , as well as overseas palm oil
refining businesses, soybean and canola-crushing operations and
a U.S. oleochemicals plant, the prospectus shows.  Global Ambition  “We want to be a global player,” Sabri said. The company
intends to use part of its IPO’s proceeds to expand its palm oil
upstream operations in Indonesia and venture into  Africa .
Cambodia and Myanmar are being targeted for rubber and sugar
respectively, he said.  The group is part of the Federal Land Development Authority,
a government agency formed in 1956 with World Bank funding to
help steer the rural poor out of poverty by providing them with
land to plant. Key to its creation was Abdul Razak Hussein,
 Malaysia ’s second prime minister and father of current leader
Najib Razak.  Najib, who must call elections by early next year,
announced windfall one-off payments to plantation workers and
their families, known as settlers, amounting to 1.69 billion
ringgit on May 8. A trust will be set up to hold 20 percent of
Felda shares for planters after the IPO so that they can reap
dividends, he said.  “Political patronage will always be high as Felda has over
112,000 settlers who vote in many key rural constituencies,”
Khor Yu Leng, an independent agribusiness analyst, said in an e-
mail interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming in  Singapore  at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net ;
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  