-- Rafael Nadal Ousted at Wimbledon by 100th-Ranked Lukas Rosol
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-06-28T22:03:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/rafael-nadal-ousted-at-wimbledon-by-100th-ranked-lukas-rosol.html
Two-time champion  Rafael Nadal  was
eliminated in the second round of Wimbledon by the 100th-ranked
player in the world, breaking the Spaniard’s streak of five
consecutive finals at the All England Club.  Nadal, 26, the second seed, lost 6-7 (9-11), 6-4, 6-4, 2-6,
6-4 to unseeded Lukas Rosol of the  Czech Republic  on Centre
Court, where the roof was closed for the final set. Rosol, 26,
is the lowest-ranked player to defeat Nadal in one of the four
Grand Slam tennis tournaments. Nadal’s biggest upset loss until
today had been to 69th-ranked  Gilles Muller  in the second round
of Wimbledon in 2005.  “I’m not just surprised, it’s like a miracle,” Rosol, who
had three aces in the final game and 22 in total, said in a
televised interview. “I never expected to play like this.”  Nadal, who has 11 Grand Slam titles, won Wimbledon in 2008
and 2010. He lost in the final in 2006, 2007 and 2011, and
missed the tournament in 2009 because of a knee injury.  “That’s what happens when you play against a player who is
able to hit the ball very hard, hit the ball without thinking
and feeling the pressure,” Nadal said in a news conference.
“When an opponent wants to play like he wanted to play in the
fifth, you are in his hands.”  Double Gone  Nadal had been trying to become the second man since tennis
turned professional in 1968 to win the  French Open  and Wimbledon
in the same year three times. The left-hander won both events in
2008 and 2010, while  Sweden ’s  Bjorn Borg  won them every year
from 1978 to 1980.  It’s the first time since Marat Safin lost in 2002 that a
male No. 2 seed has exited Wimbledon in the second round. The
last second-seeded man to lose in the second round of a Grand
Slam was  Andy Roddick  at the French Open in 2005.  Rosol has never previously reached the main draw at
Wimbledon, having lost in the qualifying rounds in all five
visits to the All England Club.  Nadal, who defeated top-seeded  Novak Djokovic  of  Serbia  in
the final of the French Open for a men’s record seventh title in
Paris, fell behind 4-1 in the first set of his opening-round
match at Wimbledon before defeating  Brazil ’s Thomaz Bellucci.  Rosol’s Resume  Rosol, playing in his sixth Grand Slam event, has never
advanced past the third round of a major tournament. The Czech
lost in the first round of the Australian Open and the second
round of the French Open, the two previous Grand Slam events
this year.  Just before Wimbledon, he reached the third round at
Queen’s Club in London. Rosol also came into the match against
Nadal having won three of his last four matches against left-
handers.  Nadal struggled from the start, saving three set points
before finishing off the first set in a tiebreaker when Rosol
dumped a forehand into the net. Nadal asked for some of his
rackets to be restrung at the end of the first set.  In the second set, Nadal quickly fell behind a service
break as Rosol delivered flat ground strokes and serves of up to
133 miles per hour (214 kilometers per hour). At 5-3 down, Nadal
slipped on the grass as he chased down a shot.  Rosol Leads  After taking the second set, Rosol went a break up at the
start of the third as he continued to dictate play from close to
the baseline with his ground strokes. Nadal hit a forehand long
to hand the Czech player a two-sets-to-one lead.  As light started to fade at the start of the fourth set,
Nadal set up two break points with a lob. He screamed, pumped
his fists and shouted “Vamos!” as he forced Rosol into making
a backhand error after a long baseline exchange to take a 4-2
lead. Nadal evened the match at two sets all with a backhand
winner.  At 8:38 p.m. local time, play was halted for 45 minutes
before the final set to allow the roof to close and the
temperature to settle.  The momentum swung back to Rosol after the delay. He broke
Nadal’s serve in the first game of the final set and didn’t
falter after that, striking a 93 mph forehand winner in the
fourth game and a 99 mph backhand winner in the seventh game
that left Nadal shaking his head.  Serving at 4-3, Rosol produced two aces to hold at love.
Serving for the biggest win of his career at 5-4, Rosol had an
ace, a forehand winner and another ace to set up three match
points. He sunk to the grass after he hit yet another ace to
finish off the victory.  After shaking Nadal’s hand, Rosol sat in his chair and held
his head in his hands as the crowd roared.  “He’s a superstar, I’m very sorry for him,” Rosol said.
“I played unbelievable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in  London  at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  