-- Reckitt’s Durex Enlists Ice-T to Take On Trojan Condoms
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-06-28T13:51:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/reckitt-s-durex-enlists-ice-t-to-take-on-trojan-condoms.html
This week a commercial set to Marvin
Gaye’s “Let’s Get it On” started showing up on Facebook and
other social-media sites. The Durex Performax Intense condom,
the ad vows, “speeds her up” and “slows him down.”  Determined to steal U.S. sales from Trojan -- Americans’
go-to condom brand -- Durex owner  Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc (RB/)  is
inviting celebrity couples including Ice-T and Coco to a “Get
In-Sync” marketing party and plans a barrage of radio and
online ads. At stake is control of a category where U.S. sales
topped $430 million in the year through June 10, according to
SymphonyIRI Group, a market-research firm in  Chicago .  While Durex has become a generic term for condom in much of
 Europe , the brand has only a 15 percent share of the U.S.
market.  Church & Dwight Co.’s (CHD)  Trojan dominates with 69 percent
of sales. At $33.6 million, Trojan’s U.S. advertising budget was
about 26 times as big as Durex’s last year, according to
Nielsen.  “They’re up against the dominant leader,” said Jack
Trout, president of Trout & Partners Ltd., a brand-consulting
firm based in Greenwich,  Connecticut . “That’s a big problem.”  Condoms are one of the oldest products around. Evidence of
condom use dates back to 1220 B.C. in  Egypt , according to
Durex’s website. Since then, materials from linen to fish
bladders have been used as prophylactics until rubber was
introduced in 1843, only to be succeeded by latex in 1930,
according to Durex.  Entertainment Product  Still, the modern condom market is in the midst of a
transformation, going beyond the utilitarian functions of
protecting against pregnancy and disease to a kind of
entertainment product. That’s set the stage for growth. Condom
sales gained 8.1 percent in the 52 weeks through June 10, with
sales in the related category of so-called sexual-enhancement
devices, rising 21 percent to $15.7 million in the same period,
according to SymphonyIRI. The firm’s figures don’t include  Wal-
Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s largest retailer.  Slough, England-based Reckitt Benckiser bought Durex parent
SSL International Plc in late 2010 for about 2.5 billion pounds
($3.9 billion).  “We have aggressive expansion plans for the Durex brand
here in the U.S.,” said Kevin Harshaw, Reckitt Benckiser’s
marketing director of hygiene, personal care and sexual well-
being.  Reckitt Benckiser’s shares gained 6.2 percent this year in
 London  this year through yesterday, while Church & Dwight
climbed 19 percent in  New York . Reckitt Benckiser fell 3 percent
to 3,277 pence at 2:38 p.m. in London, and Church & Dwight slid
0.7 percent to $53.91 in New York.  Cheeky Marketing  Durex marketing is determinedly cheeky in the U.K. --
fornicating rubber balloons; people swooning over vibrating
power drills -- and Reckitt Benckiser is betting that similar
ads will play well with Americans. The company is tripling its
U.S. marketing budget this year to $15 million.  In the U.S., Durex is targeting what Harshaw says is a
forgotten group of people aged 25 to 39 who are in
relationships. The brand also is looking for growth in a broader
market it calls “sexual well-being” that includes such sex
toys as Durex’s new “Ring of Bliss Vibrating Ring.”  Among the top products Durex will push is its Performax
Intense line, a condom with a lubricant that delays the man’s
climax, according to the company.  Durex is working with what it calls “sexfluencers” and
other social-media mavens to promote the brand.  ‘Girl Talk’  A Durex Facebook campaign this year urged participants to
nominate their state’s official sex position and the brand has
sponsored 5,000 “Durex Girl Talk” house-party events, where
attendees can score samples and coupons. The company last year
conducted a “Get a Room” contest -- in which couples shared
their sex stories on Facebook for a chance to win a two-night
stay at a New York hotel -- hosted by Bridget Marquardt of the
“Girls Next Door” reality show.  Trojan is not sitting back. The brand is pushing its own
Trojan Vibrations line, introduced in 2010, including an online
video promising a vibrator “so good, it will blow your hair
back.” The brand also sponsored a demonstration at the  Consumer
Electronics show  last year.  While Trojan isn’t doing anything specific in response to
the Durex campaign, “we are always looking for new ways to
engage with our fans through a number of channels,” Nyla Saleh,
a spokeswoman for Princeton, New Jersey-based Church & Dwight
who works for Edelman, said in an e-mail.  Still, getting Americans to switch brands may be difficult.
Americans tend not to spend a lot of time comparison-shopping
condoms, said Jiri Kulik, a former U.S. marketing chief who now
heads Reckitt Benckiser’s Latin America unit.  “They take whatever they see,” he said, “and then run
away.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  