-- Redemptions Converge With Refundings Fueling Rally: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a   a n d   G i l l i a n   W h i t e
-- 2012-06-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/redemptions-converge-with-refundings-fueling-rally-muni-credit.html
U.S. state and city debt is set to
extend its longest rally in five years as investors put to work
a record wave of cash from bonds that are maturing or being
refinanced.  The $3.7 trillion municipal market is set for a sixth
straight quarterly gain, the longest streak since 2007,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data. The securities
have returned 1.9 percent since March 31. Another three-month
advance would make the rally the best in 11 years.  Local-government debt has joined Treasuries in benefiting
from  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis and signs of slowing
economic growth. Municipal yields are close to the  lowest  since
the 1960s, spurring localities from  Hawaii  to  Florida  to
refinance higher-cost borrowings at the fastest clip since at
least 2007. At the same time, defaults are in decline as revenue
rebounds from the recession that ended in 2009.  “This market has regained a lot of its semi-safe haven
status in the minds of individual investors,” said Chris Mauro,
head U.S. muni strategist at  RBC Capital Markets  in New York.
“The sky didn’t fall in. We’ve had limited cases of defaults.”  Investors are set to receive about $142 billion in the
three months through July from maturing and refunded bonds, a
historic amount, according to Citigroup Inc. The flood has
prompted the biggest addition to municipal mutual funds in three
years, helping depress borrowing costs.  Four Decades  Local-government yields are close to the lowest in a
generation. Twenty-year general obligations  yield  3.95 percent,
compared with an average of 5.88 percent since 1961, according
to a Bond Buyer index.  States and cities have already sold about $108 billion of
bonds to refinance debt this year through June 27, the most for
the period since at least 2007, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
About 59 percent of issuance has been for refinancing, compared
with an average of 40 percent for the previous five years.  The Massachusetts Port Authority, which operates the
Boston-Logan International Airport, plans a refunding sale in
the next two weeks, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Polk
County,  Iowa , and Pocahontas,  Arkansas , also have refunding
sales scheduled.  This week, RBC increased its estimate for total 2012
municipal issuance to $365 billion from $340 billion because of
“abnormally high refunding,” Mauro said. The supply jump
probably won’t boost yields because it’s “just swapping new
bonds for old bonds,” he said.  $180 Billion  Citigroup estimates that new bond sales will trail
principal and coupon payments to investors for a second straight
year. Including issuance for new projects, municipalities have
sold almost $180 billion this year, compared with about $99
billion in the same period of 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  “Supply is actually up a lot this year, but when you drill
into it, refunding supply is up even more,” said Jamie Pagliocco, director of bond managers overseeing $30 billion of
munis at  Fidelity Investments  in Merrimack,  New Hampshire .
“Coupons are being called away and you have to reinvest them in
today’s marketplace at a substantially different yield level.”  This quarter, munis have trailed gains in Treasuries, the
primary haven for investors as European leaders have struggled
to resolve their debt crisis while U.S. job growth has slowed.
Federal debt has earned about 3.2 percent since March 31, Bank
of America data show.  Treasuries Lead  With Treasuries leading the fixed-income rally, the 10-year
benchmark muni yields, at 1.94 percent, are about 120 percent of
those on like-maturity federal debt, Bloomberg Valuation data
show. The ratio, a gauge of relative value between the two asset
classes, has been above 100 percent since mid-May, enhancing the
appeal of munis for investors seeking tax-exempt income.  Investors have added $14.7 billion to municipal-bond mutual
funds in 2012, the most for the period since 2009, Lipper US
Fund Flows data show. That compares with $21 billion withdrawn
over the same period last year, the most since at least 1992,
amid speculation that local-government defaults would climb.  Instead, missed payments have dropped. Thirty-seven issuers
have defaulted through June 26, compared with 57 in the same
period of 2011, according to Municipal Market Advisors.  In a sign of improving fiscal health, state tax collections
rose in the first three months of 2012 for the ninth straight
quarter, according to the Nelson A.  Rockefeller Institute  of
Government in  Albany , New York.  Following are pending sales:  NEW YORK CITY TRANSITIONAL FINANCE AUTHORITY plans to offer
$850 million of Building Aid Revenue Bonds next month, according
to the city’s Office of Management and Budget. The bonds are
secured by state payments to help finance public-school
buildings. Moody’s Investors Service rates the credit Aa3,
fourth-highest. (Added June 28)  MASSACHUSETTS PORT AUTHORITY is set to issue $285 million
in revenue debt as soon as next week, according to an offering
statement. About $120 million will be subject to the alternative
minimum tax, according to the document. (Added June 28)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net ;
Gillian White in New York at 
 gwhite46@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  