-- Republicans Pledge Push for Repeal After Health Ruling
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2012-06-28T21:30:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/republicans-pledge-fresh-push-for-repeal-after-health-ruling.html
Vowing to repeal President  Barack Obama ’s landmark 2010 health-care overhaul, congressional
Republicans said they will try to use the  Supreme Court ’s
decision today to their advantage in the November election.  House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican,
announced that the Republican-controlled chamber would vote
again July 11 to repeal the law upheld by the court today, as
Republicans in both chambers took aim at the taxes and fees in
what they’ve termed “Obamacare.”  “Elections have consequences,” House Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio Republican , said today at a press conference in
Washington. “The American people will make that evident.”  Whatever repeal efforts  House Republicans  make almost
certainly will die in the Senate, where Democrats have control,
and Obama would have the ability to veto such a bill if it
passed both chambers.  The justices, voting 5-4, said Congress has the authority
to require Americans to carry insurance or pay a penalty. That
requirement is at the core of the law, which also requires
insurers to cover people with pre-existing health conditions.
The court limited the law’s extension of the Medicaid program
for the poor by saying the federal government can’t threaten to
withhold existing money from states that don’t fully comply with
the expansion.  Pleased Democrats  Democrats hailed the ruling. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, came to the Senate floor minutes after
it was announced to praise the law as “the greatest single step
in generations toward ensuring access to affordable, quality
health care for every American” and said the decision should
stop repeal efforts.  “Unfortunately, Republicans in Congress continue to target
the rights and benefits guaranteed under this law,” Reid said.
“They would like to give the power of life and death back to
insurance companies. But the United States Supreme Court has
spoken. This matter is settled.”  House Republicans, who passed a bill, 245-189, to repeal
the health-care law in January 2011, were meeting in the Capitol
today to map out their next steps while acknowledging that they
need a Republican majority in the Senate and a Republican
president in the White House to change the law.  “The only way” to “get rid of Obamacare” after today’s
decision “is to elect a Republican House, a Republican Senate
and a Republican president this fall,” said Representative
Steve Chabot, an Ohio Republican.  Emphasizing Taxes  While they didn’t offer immediate details on how they would
proceed after a House vote on repeal, several Republicans said
the court’s decision will give them a boost in the November
election as they emphasize tax increases in the law that will
start taking effect next year.  “Now we will let the American people decide if they want
this huge tax burden,” said Representative  Joe Walsh  of
 Illinois , one of 87 Republican freshmen elected in 2010. “You
have the Democrats and president Obama now supporting a huge
tax.”  The health-care law will have “enormous ramifications for
how Americans file taxes each year going forward,” said Kathy
Pickering, a vice president at  H&R Block Inc. (HRB)  “Today’s ruling
that the individual mandate is a tax underscores how the law is
being enacted through the tax system. Taxpayers will need
additional guidance to understand the real-life implications.”  ‘Disappointed’ Republicans  House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan  of Wisconsin said
Republicans are “disappointed but not deterred” by the court’s
decision. “This just makes the stakes of the next election all
that higher,” Ryan told reporters.  The Republican strategy for winning control of the House
and making gains in the Senate in 2010 was built on criticism on
the health-care law, which also helped to spur the anti-
government  Tea Party  movement. Now, the Republicans may be
counting on the Supreme Court ruling to fire up their base.  House Republicans already have voted 30 times to eliminate,
defund or scale back parts or all of the health-care law, most
recently passing a measure to repeal a 2.3 percent tax on
medical devices set to take effect in January.  McConnell’s Stance  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, said today he would press efforts to do away with
the law, which he said the court’s ruling showed was “a tax.”  “Today’s decision does nothing to diminish the fact that
Obamacare’s mandates, tax hikes, and Medicare cuts should be
repealed and replaced with common sense reforms that lower costs
and that the American people actually want,” McConnell said in
a statement.  On February 2, 2011, all 47 Senate Republicans voted in
favor of repealing the law. The chamber’s 53 Democrats killed
that effort.  The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act requires
people to obtain health insurance or face financial penalties,
and among other things provides subsidies to help people
purchase health insurance on state-level exchanges and expands
coverage of pre-existing conditions.  “There is not a big tax increase,” said Representative
 Henry Waxman , a California Democrat who championed the health
care law. “The only ones that will get taxed are those who will
not buy insurance, but that is a relatively small penalty.”  Legislative Recourse  Joseph Antos , a health policy expert and critic of the law
at the  American Enterprise Institute , a Washington group that
advocates for limited government and free markets, said today in
an interview that House Republicans’ only legislative recourse
is to make good on their promise to hold a vote repealing the
law.  “That might make it out of the House, but it won’t make it
out of the Senate,” Antos said. “It’s dead for this year. If
there’s any recourse, it’s getting their candidate elected
president.”  Democrats, who provided all of votes to pass the health
overhaul in 2010 before losing control of the House in midterm
elections later that year, called the ruling a vindication of
the law and a victory for the health of the American people.  “With this ruling, Americans will benefit from critical
patient protections, lower costs for the middle class, more
coverage for families, and greater accountability for the
 insurance industry ,” House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi , a
California Democrat who was House speaker when the law passed,
said in a statement.  Asked by reporters whether the ruling gives Republicans a
political opening, Pelosi said, “The politics be damned: This
is about what we came here to do.”  ‘Above Politics’  Senator  Charles Schumer  of  New York , the chamber’s third-
ranking Democrat, said in a statement that the ruling affirms
the Supreme Court’s “position as an institution above
politics.”  “Just as Speaker Boehner vowed not to spike the football
if the law was overturned, Republicans should not carry on out
of pique now that the law has been upheld,” Schumer said.  A plurality of Americans, 43 percent, said they wanted to
retain the 2010 law with only small modifications, while 15
percent said the measure should be left alone, according to a
Bloomberg National Poll conducted June 14-18. One-third said the
law should be repealed.  Almost three-fourths of respondents, 71 percent, said
politics would influence the Supreme Court’s decision, with 20
percent saying the court would decide solely on legal merits.
Five justices are Republican appointees, and four were appointed
by Democrats.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  