-- Republicans Fault Obama Oil Plan Environmentalists See as Risky
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-06-29T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/republicans-fault-obama-s-five-year-oil-plan-as-too-restrictive.html
The Obama administration’s latest
five-year oil-leasing plan angered Republicans, who sought to
open more areas for drilling, and environmentalists, who said
drilling may lead to disasters similar to  BP Plc’s (BP/)  2010 spill.  The plan released yesterday by the U.S. Interior Department
scheduled 15 lease sales through 2017, in the Gulf of Mexico and
Arctic waters, while keeping the Atlantic and Pacific coasts off
limits.  “The Obama administration has demonstrated that they will
not allow the safe and responsible development of oil and gas
energy resources off of Virginia’s coast,” Republican Governor
 Bob McDonnell  said in a statement. “Offshore energy exploration
and development would mean thousands of new jobs and millions in
new revenue.”  President Barack Obama has set a target of reducing U.S.
oil imports by a third by 2025 through more domestic oil
production and increased use of natural gas and renewable
resources. Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  has called for more
extensive drilling.  The five-year plan includes 12 sales in the Gulf of Mexico,
an auction in Alaska’s Cook Inlet in 2016, in  Chukchi Sea  in
2016 and in the Beaufort Sea in 2017. The regions hold more than
75 percent of total undiscovered and recoverable oil, according
to the agency.  Safety Risks  “The government keeps promoting risky offshore drilling
that jeopardizes the health of the entire Gulf and Arctic
regions,” said Jacqueline Savitz, vice president for North
America at environmental group Oceana. “This plan sets us up
for another devastating  oil spill , which endangers human lives,
coastal economies and marine life.”  The administration has held two auctions since BP’s Macondo
well blew up in April 2010, killing 11 workers and spewing about
4.9 million of barrels of oil to the Gulf.  An auction on June 20 for leases in the Gulf of Mexico off
the coast of Louisiana, Alabama and Mississippi raised $1.7
billion, with  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  offering the most high bids
at $406.6 million, or 24 percent of all offers, followed by
 Statoil ASA (STL)  with $333.3 million, the Interior Department said.  Industry Demands  Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  said the 2012-2017 plan
responds to demands from the energy industry for additional
leasing, while keeping environmentally sensitive areas off
limits.  “Our plan adopts a regionally tailored approach that
accounts for the distinct needs of the different regions,”
Salazar told reporters in Washington. “The plan takes into
account the range of factors, like resource potential, status of
development and emergency-response structure, regional interest,
and the need for a balanced approach when it comes to the use of
our natural resources.”  The  American Petroleum Institute , representing more than
500 oil and natural gas companies, criticized the plan.  This proposal “will not allow us to realize the full
benefits from safe and responsible development of America’s oil
and natural gas resources,” said Erik Milito, a director at the
Washington-based group. “For example, this plan pushes back the
2015 Beaufort lease sale, where leasing has already occurred.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in  Washington  at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  