-- Republicans Focus Health Law Attack on Taxes After Ruling
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2012-06-29T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/republicans-focus-health-law-attack-on-taxes-after-ruling.html
Republicans in Congress are
recasting President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law as a
significant tax increase imperiling a fragile economy as they
continue efforts to repeal the law after the  Supreme Court 
upheld its core tenets.  Moments after the court’s 5-4  decision  yesterday,
Republican lawmakers and allies including the anti-tax Club for
Growth shifted from attacking the constitutionality of the law’s
requirement that Americans purchase health insurance or pay a
penalty to emphasizing its tax implications for millions of
Americans.  “It’s not really a health-care law, it’s a tax law,” said
Representative  Allen West , a Florida Republican and member of
the  Tea Party  Caucus.  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, said he would redouble efforts to do away with the
law, which he said the court’s ruling showed was “a tax.” The
Republican-aligned Americans for Prosperity, a nonprofit group,
said it is launching a $9 million advertising campaign
characterizing the law as a tax.  Chief Justice  John Roberts  ruled that the individual
mandate was constitutional as an exercise of Congress’s broad
power to levy taxes, not to regulate commerce. Roberts picked up
on a secondary legal argument the administration had made, which
ran counter to its political contention that the penalty wasn’t
a tax.  Medicaid Program  The Supreme Court justices, in their ruling, also limited
the law’s extension of the Medicaid program for the poor by
saying the federal government can’t threaten to withhold
existing money from states that don’t fully comply with the
expansion.  The court’s decision to uphold the core of the law was a
blow to Republican plans to overturn the 2010 Patient Protection
and Affordable Care Act through the court system. Now the battle
to repel Obama’s signature achievement turns to the legislative
front, where Republicans’ best chance of repealing the law
hinges on tying it to the economy and trying to pick up enough
seats to take control of the  U.S. Senate .  The Club for Growth started attacking Indiana Democrat Joe Donnelly, who is running for a U.S. Senate seat, for supporting
“a massive tax increase.”  ‘Rallying Cry’  “Democrats have their victory but Republicans have their
rallying cry,” said Ron Bonjean, a Republican strategist and
former aide to former Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott.
“During such a bad economy, why did the president just put a
health-care tax on the backs of hardworking Americans? That’s
the way they’ll thread the needle.”  House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi  of  California  didn’t
deny that the ruling gives Republicans a political opening.  “The politics be damned, this is about what we came here
to do,” she said.  Other Democrats said Republicans are overplaying the tax
angle.  “This is only a tax burden on free riders and it was a
Republican idea in the first place advanced by  Newt Gingrich  of
all people that free riders should pay their own way,” said Jim Moran of  Virginia .  According to a statement yesterday from Democrats on the
tax-writing House Ways and Means Committee, 98 percent of
Americans won’t be fined for not having insurance because most
people will have access to health care through an employer or
through the law’s exchange system or a public program.  Repeal Vote  House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican,
announced that the Republican-controlled chamber would vote
again July 11 to repeal the law. Whatever repeal efforts House
Republicans make almost certainly will die in the Senate, where
Democrats have control, and Obama would have the ability to veto
such a bill if it passed both chambers.  Congressional Republicans said they’ll use the court ruling
to energize their voting base before the November election.
“The only way” to “get rid of Obamacare” after yesterday’s
decision “is to elect a Republican House, a Republican Senate
and a Republican president this fall,” said Representative
Steve Chabot, an Ohio Republican.  “Now the Tea Party knows what it needs to do,” said Dean
Clancey, vice president for health policy at FreedomWorks, an
umbrella group for the Tea Party movement. “We need to win it
all in November and our mission is clear,” Clancy said in a
telephone interview.  Top Concern  Opinion polls show voters’ top concern is the economy,
which means Republicans run a risk of appearing out of touch
with the nation’s priorities if they keep up efforts to repeal
the health-care law, warned Democrats.  A plurality of Americans, 43 percent, said they wanted to
retain the 2010 law with only small modifications, while 15
percent said the measure should be left alone, according to a
Bloomberg National Poll conducted June 14-18. One-third said the
law should be repealed.  Senator  Charles Schumer  of  New York , the chamber’s third-
ranking Democrat, said Republicans’ repeal plans would backfire
by damaging their efforts to win the Senate majority in
November.  “The more they talk about wanting to come back and repeal
health care instead of focusing on jobs and the economy and the
middle class, the harder it’s going to be for them to ever get
that majority,” Schumer told reporters.  Political Risks  In a floor speech yesterday, Democratic Senator  Tom Harkin 
of  Iowa  warned Republicans about the political risks of pressing
for repeal. “Woe to those who would try to repeal this”
because “the American people will judge you” as being “on the
wrong side of history.”  Democrats control 53 votes to 47 for Republicans in the
Senate. Republicans would need a net gain of four seats to take
control of the chamber with 51 votes. A victory by presidential
candidate  Mitt Romney , the former Massachusetts governor, would
reduce that threshold to three seats as his vice president would
cast tie-breaking votes.  “This just makes the stakes of the next election all that
higher,” House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin
Republican, told reporters yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story: Heidi Przybyla in
Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  