-- Reserve Bank Says India Is Facing Inflation, Growth Risk
-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l   a n d   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2012-06-28T18:31:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/reserve-bank-says-india-is-facing-inflation-growth-risk.html
India is likely to face elevated
inflation risks from supply bottlenecks and lingering threats to
economic expansion, the  Reserve Bank of India  said.  “Threats to stability are posed by the global sovereign
debt problem and  risk aversion , domestic fiscal position,
widening current-account deficit and structural aspects of food
inflation,” the central bank said in its Financial Stability
 Report  released in Mumbai yesterday. While India’s financial
system “remains robust,” challenges to stability have
increased since the last assessment in December 2011.  Growth in Asia’s third-largest economy slowed to a near-
decade low last quarter, hurt by a faltering global recovery,
political gridlock that has deterred investment and price
pressures. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh , who took charge of the
 finance ministry  three days ago, faces a  budget deficit 
requiring record borrowing as well as a trade shortfall as he
tries to revitalize his development agenda.  “Sovereign default concerns and the need for substantial
bank recapitalization in the euro zone have escalated fears of
contagion and recession,” central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said in the report. In India, an “already high fiscal
deficit leaves little room for the government to stimulate the
economy,” he said.  Currency, Stocks  The rupee, which has slumped 21 percent against the dollar
in the past 12 months, strengthened 0.6 percent to 56.8075 per
dollar in Mumbai yesterday. Its tumble threatens to stoke the
cost of imports. The BSE  India  Sensitive Index rose 0.1 percent.  The yield on the 9.15 percent government bonds due November
2024 increased one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to
8.42 percent, according to the central bank’s trading system.
The rate was the highest since June 20.  Subbarao unexpectedly left the Reserve Bank’s benchmark
repurchase rate unchanged at 8 percent on June 18, saying the
following day that Indian inflation exceeds acceptable levels
and that restraining it may require sacrificing economic growth.  Gross domestic product climbed 5.3 percent last quarter
from a year earlier, the slowest pace since 2003. The trade
deficit widened to a record $184.9 billion in the fiscal year
ended March. The government projects unprecedented borrowing of
5.69 trillion rupees ($100 billion) in 2012-2013 to fund its
budget shortfall.  ‘Significantly Skeptical’  “The RBI seems to be significantly skeptical about all the
macroeconomic parameters,” said  Madan Sabnavis , the Mumbai-
based chief economist at Credit Analysis & Research Ltd. “It
may not lower  interest rates  anytime soon.”  The nation’s wholesale prices rose 7.55 percent in May from
a year earlier, compared with 7.23 percent in April, stoked in
part by food costs.  “Inflation risks are likely to remain high, given the
persistence of overall inflation, even in the face of
significant growth slowdown which points to serious supply
bottlenecks and sticky inflation expectations,” the central
bank said in the report.  Singh pledged to restore confidence in India after resuming
control of the finance ministry. He has urged senior officials
to revive investor sentiment.  Subbarao said a recent oil-price drop, if sustained, could
help the economy, adding “the projected normal monsoon and the
inherent resilience of the Indian economy could provide the
needed momentum to growth, provided appropriate policy actions
are initiated to contain the deficits and improve the investment
climate.”  Downgrade Threat  Fitch Ratings  and  Standard & Poor’s  have said they may
strip India of its investment-grade rating, citing risks ranging
from the fiscal shortfall to a current-account deficit that
reached $19.6 billion in the three months through December, the
most in at least six decades.  A potential “downgrade by rating agencies and a
depreciating  exchange rate  may affect capital inflows,” posing
“challenges” for funding the current-account gap, the  Reserve
Bank  said. “Going forward into 2012-2013, downside risks to
growth are likely to persist.”  A change in ratings could affect the availability and cost
of foreign-currency borrowings for Indian banks and companies,
the central bank said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net ;
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  