-- RIM’s Plunge Adds Pressure to ‘Sell, Break Up or Die’
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2012-06-29T20:37:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/rim-reports-loss-as-it-cuts-jobs-delays-blackberry-10-release.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  plunged 19
percent, the biggest decline in more than a year, after posting
a loss and delaying the next BlackBerry operating system,
increasing pressure on the company to find an acquirer.  RIM reported a first-quarter loss yesterday of 37 cents a
share, excluding some items, more than five times bigger than
what analysts had predicted. Sales tumbled 43 percent to $2.8
billion, missing a prediction of $3.05 billion, and the company
said it would cut 5,000 jobs.  The Waterloo, Ontario-based smartphone maker had been
waiting for a release of the BlackBerry 10 in the fall to decide
on its strategic options, betting that the success of the
product would let it avoid a sale, according to two people
familiar with the situation. With no new lineup this year -- and
the next version of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s better-selling iPhone looming
-- RIM may have to seek a buyer now.  “They either sell, break up the company or die,” said
 Matt Thornton , an analyst at Avian Securities LLC in  Boston  who
has a neutral rating on RIM. “It is just a question of when.”  Chief Executive Officer Thorsten Heins said in May that RIM
had hired  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  RBC Capital Markets  to help
evaluate its strategic options, though he said a sale wasn’t the
company’s goal. RIM would prefer to find a partner or license
its operating system. Heins reiterated that notion yesterday,
saying he was “convinced” that RIM has a future as a maker of
hardware and software.  Not Ready  RIM declined to comment on takeover speculation.  “RIM will comment on any detail from its strategic review
when it’s ready,” said Heidi Davidson, a company spokeswoman.  The stock  fell to $7.39 at the close in New York. The
shares have now lost 95 percent of their value since peaking in
mid-2008, cutting the business’s market value to $3.9 billion.  The company has struggled to keep pace with Apple’s iPhone
and devices based on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android platform, spurring
customers to flee the BlackBerry platform. The new BB10 software
-- the linchpin of its comeback plan -- now won’t arrive until
the first quarter of next year, RIM said yesterday. That’s more
than a year later than originally planned.  “The delay increases the likelihood of a sale,” said
 Michael Walkley , an analyst at Canaccord Genuity Inc. in
 Minneapolis . “Even if BB10 launched in the fall against iPhone
5, it would be very, very tough to get consumers to try it
out.”  Microsoft, IBM  Some investors were already pushing RIM to put itself on
the block before the latest results.  “We would like to see a sale of the company or a breakup,
and if a breakup, the sale of each of the parts,” Vic Alboini,
chairman of the Toronto-based investment firm  Jaguar Financial
Corp. (JFC) , said last month. He sees  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  or International
Business Machines Corp. as potential buyers.  “We’re pushing and cajoling RIM to get to the promised
land of a sale or breakup,” he said.  The job cuts will shrink RIM’s workforce by about 30
percent, cutting it from 16,500 to 11,500 by March, RIM said.  The company also reported a pretax writedown of $335
million and expects to post an additional operating loss in the
second quarter. The first-quarter  net loss  was $518 million, or
99 cents a share, compared with a profit of $695 million, or
$1.33, a year earlier.  Cost Savings  The company is trying to save $1 billion in annual
operating costs by eliminating workers and manufacturing sites.
The effort so far has saved RIM $300 million, Chief Financial
Officer Brian Bidulka said yesterday on a conference call. The
company’s cash investments rose to $2.2 billion last quarter,
from $2.1 billion in the previous three months.  Still, future operating losses and severance payments will
force RIM to burn through much of that money, said Walkley, who
has a hold rating on the shares.  The situation may come to a head in the coming months, said
 Brian Blair , an analyst at Wedge Partners Corp. in New York.  “My view is that things get so bad this year and in early
2013 that they get forced into a sale,” he said. “It gets
worse and worse for the next six months, guaranteed.”  RIM can’t expect any assistance from the Canadian
government,  Jim Flaherty , the country’s finance minister, told
reporters today on a conference call.  Choosing a Path  “They need to look at their own options and to choose
their path,” Flaherty said. He said he’s not aware of any
interest from other companies in acquiring RIM.  A takeover of RIM’s size would trigger a review to
determine whether an acquisition is in the national interest. In
2010, Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s government rejected
Melbourne-based  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s $40 billion hostile takeover
of  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.  over concerns that the sale
would cut jobs and  tax revenue .  RIM had previously said that the first of the new
BlackBerry 10 phones would come out in the latter part of this
year, and the product was originally expected in the first
quarter of 2012. Pushing BlackBerry 10 to 2013 means the phones
may come out months later than the iPhone 5 and products built
on Microsoft’s Windows 8 platform.  In the meantime, sales of the existing lineup are slumping.
RIM shipped 7.8 million BlackBerrys and 260,000 PlayBook tablets
in its last fiscal quarter, which ended June 2. A year earlier,
it shipped 13.2 million BlackBerrys and 500,000 PlayBooks.  “The delay may just be the final nail in the coffin,”
said Sameet Kanade, an analyst at Northern Securities in Toronto
who has a sell rating on the stock. “This is not just a
disappointing quarter, but is a big question mark about the
company going forward.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  