-- Risks That Sank Bankia Unseen by Customers Tapped for Ove
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-06-29T15:21:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/risks-that-sank-bankia-unseen-by-customers-tapped-for-ove.html
During the seven years he helped
oversee a lender fated to be embroiled in  Spain ’s biggest bank
rescue, Jose Angel Hidalgo Pitarch, a telecommunications
engineer, says he had little inkling that property loans were
going bad.  “We were never shown any information or ratio that showed
the extent of the real estate problem, or at least with any
sufficient anticipation,” said Hidalgo Pitarch, an account
holder at Bancaja who was selected to serve on the control
committee of the Valencia-based savings bank.  The lender, which helped finance a decade-long building
boom on the Mediterranean coast, merged with six other savings
banks, including 310-year-old  Caja Madrid , to form the Bankia
group in 2010. The group was nationalized this week, less than a
year after its banking unit sold shares to the public, following
an International Monetary Fund report that highlighted its
balance sheet and management weaknesses.  Shareholders in the Bankia group’s listed entity met in
 Valencia  today seeking explanations for what went awry at the
third-biggest Spanish lender, whose troubles helped push Spain
to seek as much as 100 billion euros ($125 billion) in rescue
funds from its European partners.  Shareholders Protest  As shareholders and client groups protested outside the
hall where the meeting took place, the new chairman, Jose Ignacio Goirigolzarri, said in a speech he “profoundly
regretted” their losses. He pledged to turn round the business
by halving the lender’s 60 billion euros of non-yielding assets
and seeking efficiency gains. Goirigolzarri said he will
simplify the group, which owns or partly owns 832 companies.  The stock  rose  as much as 11 percent, and was 1.9 percent
higher at 91.7 cents at 5:11 p.m. in  Madrid  trading, after euro-
area leaders agreed to relax conditions on emergency loans for
Spanish banks. The shares are down  75 percent  since the initial
public offering last July.  Putting account holders in positions of oversight was just
one of the peculiarities of Spain’s cajas, foundation-based
lenders that funded social and cultural programs with profits.
Cajas were overseen by groups including local politicians and
customers as a result of a 1977 law passed after Spain’s
transition to democracy.  On May 25, Goirigolzarri asked the government for 19
billion euros of aid after mounting bad loans left the bank
short of capital.  Boom Bust  “Creating one big good bank from five, six or seven
smaller bad ones was never going to be a good idea,” said
Eduardo Martinez Abascal, a professor of financial management at
the University of Navarra’s IESE business school.  A  Bankia (BKIA)  official in Madrid declined to comment in a phone
interview, as did a Bancaja official in Valencia.  Ill-judged property investments along the coastline of
Valencia, Spain’s third-largest city and a hotspot for the real-
estate boom, and investments in ventures from an amusement park
in the resort of Benidorm to motor sports, had already started
to undermine Bancaja before it joined the merger that formed
Bankia, said Jose Camarasa, a former Socialist party spokesman
in the region’s assembly.  Fish Farm  By 2009, Bancaja had listed 47 companies involved in real
estate as part of its banking group, up from 16 five years
earlier, according to corporate filings.  Among investments listed on the 2011 balance sheet of Banco
de Valencia SA, a lender seized by the government last November
that was previously controlled by Bancaja, was a 68 percent
stake in a fish farm operating hatcheries of Mediterranean sea
bream. The company was preparing to seek creditor protection
after contributing 17 million euros of losses to the bank.  The cocktail of weak risk controls and a regional property
boom in full swing has come under scrutiny in an inquiry by the
Valencian regional assembly into last year’s seizure by the
state of  Caja de Ahorros del Mediterraneo , known as CAM. About
half of CAM’s lending to property developers was in default and
bad loans accounted for 19 percent of its loan book by the time
of the rescue. The government propped up the lender with almost
6 billion euros of capital and loans.  Ballet Dancer  Among the witnesses to appear before the inquiry this month
was Isabel Cambronero, a ballet teacher from Murcia, who ended
up on CAM’s control committee after her name was picked at
random to join the lender’s general assembly.  “If I had to audit the auditors, they should change the
rules because I can’t audit an auditor because I don’t know how
to audit anyone,” Cambronero said in June 11 testimony to the
hearing, posted on the Valencian assembly website.  “In many cases it has been the strategy of the people
we’ve heard from -- including the ballet dancer -- to say that
they didn’t understand what they were doing,” said Angel Luna,
a socialist party deputy on the regional assembly who heard her
testimony.  The unraveling of Bankia has driven Spain’s borrowing costs
to euro-era records on concern the expense of rescuing the
financial system will overwhelm the state. A five-year property
slump has piled up 184 billion euros of what the Bank of Spain
terms “troubled” real-estate assets on lenders’ balance
sheets.  Bankia Probe  Spain’s public prosecutor has begun investigating the
formation of the Bankia group, which combined more than 300
billion euros in assets from the seven savings banks, as well as
the initial sale of stock in Bankia SA last July, an official
for the prosecutor’s office said on June 7.  Bankia raised more than 3 billion euros in the IPO by
 selling shares  to as many as 347,000 investors, most of whom
were its own account holders.  “I want to say sorry to Bankia customers for having sold
them shares based on the information given to me by my
superiors,” Xavier Capallera Gibert, a Bankia branch manager in
Peralada, Spain, said at the  shareholders’ meeting  today.  Bankia’s woes  stem from when its founding cajas piled up
risk during Spain’s property boom, Martinez Abascal said. Risk
controls will also come under scrutiny as  Europe  provides rescue
funds for Spain and its banks, he said.  Among Bancaja’s 197-strong 2009 general assembly, which
named the board and the executive committee, 121 members were
appointed by the regional government, town halls and from among
its staff, while customers held 66 seats.  “The governance of the cajas was a total mess, Abascal
said. “Too often, control was passed into the hands of
politicians and it was the regional political bosses who had the
final say.”  State Embrace  Santiago Pedraz, a judge at the National Court in Madrid,
has passed information on Banco de Valencia to anti-corruption
investigators after the government’s bank rescue fund alleged
fraud at the lender, a court official said in a phone interview.  Bankia fell into the state’s embrace last month after the
May 7 resignation of  Rodrigo Rato , the former International
Monetary Fund managing director who became chairman in 2010. The
government took control of the group by converting 4.5 billion
euros of preferred shares into stock.  Bankia’s parent company, Banco Financiero y de Ahorros,
booked 5.44 billion euros of provisions last year to cover the
deteriorating value of its stakes in Bankia, Bancaja
Inversiones, the holding company for its stake in Banco de
Valencia, and CISA 2011. CISA 2011 is a company wholly-owned by
BFA that includes Bancaja real-estate assets such as undeveloped
building land.  Random Selection  At the end of 2011, the amount of group loans to developers
and builders classed as “doubtful” or at risk of becoming so
was 27.8 billion euros, up from 16.7 billion euros a year
earlier.  On June 9, Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s government said
it would seek European funds to help complete a clean-up of the
banking system after at least three previous attempts since 2010
had failed to do the job.  Hidalgo Pitarch said he took his first step toward an
 oversight role  at Bancaja when he was randomly selected from
among the lender’s account holders to form part of the general
assembly. A savings bank customers’ association in Valencia then
invited him to represent it on Bancaja’s control committee, he
said in a phone interview.  He said he did have some financial know-how from his job as
head of communications services in the town hall of Villarreal,
a municipality near Valencia, where he had prepared budgets. He
said he was never subjected to political pressure in his work on
the control committee.  Board Oversight  The committee’s tasks included making sure that the board
run by then-Chairman Jose Luis Olivas, a former People’s Party
head of the Valencia regional government, was effective, and to
monitor its financial management, according to its  bylaws . It
took on audit committee functions in 2003.  The committee met 14 times in 2009 and shared 74,000 euros
in payments to its 13 members that year, according to its
corporate governance report.  Hidalgo Pitarch, whose parents opened his first Bancaja
account for him as a child, said he was also hit by what
happened at Bankia because he had bought shares in the bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  