-- Roberts Rejects Partisanship in Backing Obama Health Law
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-06-29T01:32:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/roberts-rejects-partisanship-as-court-backs-obama-health-law.html
With a single vote supporting
President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law, Republican-appointed
Chief Justice  John Roberts  asserted his independence and defused
claims that partisanship rules the  Supreme Court .  Roberts joined four Democratic-selected justices to uphold
the biggest change to the U.S. medical system in a half-century.
The law, almost universally rejected by Republicans, is designed
to expand insurance to at least 30 million Americans.  The  ruling  injects nuance into the legacy of a chief
justice who since his 2005 appointment by President  George W. Bush  has led the court’s conservative wing in supporting gun
rights, overturning campaign-finance restrictions and limiting
racial preferences. It came three days after Roberts and Justice
 Anthony Kennedy  joined liberal justices in striking down most of
an  Arizona  law cracking down on illegal immigrants.  “It would appear that he has put the prestige of the court
and the institutional image of the court as nonpartisan above
his ideological values,” said James F. Simon, the former dean
of  New York  Law School and the author of six books about the
Supreme Court, referring to the health-care law.  For Roberts, who worked in President  Ronald Reagan ’s
administration and whose 2005 nomination then-Senator Obama
opposed, the decision upholding the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act almost certainly cut against his political
and policy instincts. His vote helped avert the prospect of an
ideologically divided court undercutting a president’s signature
achievement little more than four months before an election.  Conservative Anchor  In his almost seven years as chief justice, Roberts has
been an anchor of the court’s conservative wing. He also led the
court when it allowed federal abortion restrictions and limited
class-action lawsuits.  Even if Roberts didn’t always go as far as conservative
colleagues  Antonin Scalia  and  Clarence Thomas  wanted, he at
least was moving in the same direction.  “The health-care act case gave him an opportunity to
detach himself from his ‘conservative’ colleagues and, because
of his assignment power, write the opinion himself,” said G.
Edward White, a professor at the  University of Virginia  School
of Law, in an e-mail. “By doing so he looks like less of a
partisan and more of a ‘statesman.’”  Public Disapproval  Roberts’s health-care opinion contained a handful of
nuggets to please opponents of the law. He joined Scalia,
Thomas, Kennedy and  Samuel Alito  in concluding that Congress’s
authority over interstate commerce didn’t let it require people
to get insurance or else pay a penalty.  That didn’t affect the outcome of the case because Roberts
and four other justices said Congress could enact the
requirement by using its ability to impose taxes. Even so, the
commerce-clause reasoning puts new constraints on Congress’s
power in the future.  Roberts also wrote that Congress went too far in its
expansion of the Medicaid program for the poor. Writing for the
court, he said the lawmakers can’t threaten to withhold existing
funds from states that don’t fully comply with the expansion.  Still, he said the high court would be overstepping its
bounds by invalidating the law.  “The court does not express any opinion on the wisdom of
the Affordable Care Act,” he wrote. “Under the Constitution,
that judgment is reserved to the people.”  Political Motives  The ruling comes at a time when the public is quick to
attribute political motives to the court. A Bloomberg National
Poll conducted in March found that three-quarters of Americans
expected the Supreme Court to be influenced by politics in the
health-care ruling.  A New York Times poll conducted May 31-June 3 found that 76
percent of those surveyed believed the justices sometimes let
their personal or political views influence their decisions.  Roberts’s political leanings were clear when he was
selected by Bush to succeed William Rehnquist, the conservative
chief justice for whom Roberts once served as a law clerk.  Memos from his days as a Reagan administration attorney
showed Roberts to be an outspoken, sometimes wisecracking
skeptic of sweeping civil rights laws. As a Supreme Court lawyer
for President  George H.W. Bush , Roberts signed a brief urging
the justices to overturn the landmark Roe v. Wade abortion-
rights decision.  During his confirmation hearing, Roberts assured Democrats
he would have “no agenda” as chief justice, and that “I
prefer to be known as a modest judge.” He likened the job to
being a baseball umpire calling balls and strikes.  Democratic Support  Those words helped win the support of half the chamber’s
Democrats as Roberts won approval 78-22.  Roberts took his seat vowing to seek common ground among
the justices. He found consensus during his first term, when the
court resolved more than half its cases, including fights over
abortion and campaign-finance restrictions, without dissent.  Then things started to change. Over the next five years,
the court resolved most of its highest profile cases on 5-4
votes -- more often than not with Roberts joining Scalia,
Kennedy, Thomas and Alito in the majority.  That ideological divide became a partisan one in 2010, when
Obama appointed  Elena Kagan  to succeed the retiring Justice  John Paul Stevens . The selection meant that, for the first time, the
court’s four Democratic appointees were also its four most
liberal. In the following term, the court divided along partisan
lines in a dozen cases, including a nationwide gender-bias suit
against  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)   Drawing Criticism  Those rulings drew criticism from Democrats, including
Senator Pat Leahy, the Judiciary Committee chairman who
supported Roberts’ nomination. The Vermont Democrat likened
Roberts to a Major League Baseball umpire who had “spoiled a
perfect game by saying somebody was safe when they were
obviously out.”  Now Roberts is the toast of Democrats -- and the bane of at
least some Republicans.  “In this case, at least, the chief justice was acting as
the umpire that he promised to be,” said Senator  Charles Schumer  of New York, the chamber’s third-ranking Democrat. “His
was a welcome display of judicial independence.”  Mathew Staver, who argued a case against the law in
 Virginia , said Roberts was no longer a “reliable interpreter”
of the Constitution. “Roberts mismanaged the case and betrayed
the Constitution by this frankly bizarre ruling,” said Staver,
dean of the Liberty University School of Law.  The ruling “doesn’t tell me anything consistent that
allows me to predict how he thinks and what he thinks,” said
Virginia Attorney General Kenneth Cuccinelli, a Republican who
filed a separate lawsuit challenging the law. “As someone who
deals in the law, I don’t find that to be terribly
encouraging.”  Obama Relationship  The ruling adds a new element to what was already a
complicated relationship between Obama and Roberts, each a
Harvard Law School graduate who rose to the pinnacle of one
branch of government. Their paths crossed in 2005 when then-
Senator Obama of Illinois met with and then voted against
Roberts as chief justice.  The two met again after Obama’s 2008 election when Roberts
invited the president-elect to visit the court. They then shared
an awkward moment at Obama’s inauguration when the normally
smooth-talking Roberts bungled the wording of the oath he was
administering. Roberts and Obama repeated the swearing-in the
next day at the White House to guard against any legal
questions.  The relationship grew tenser in 2010 when, with Roberts and
other justices in attendance, Obama used his  State of the Union 
address to criticize the court’s just-issued ruling allowing
unlimited corporate campaign spending. Roberts and his
colleagues sat stone-faced as Democratic lawmakers stood and
cheered.  ‘Pep Rally’  Roberts later called the annual speech a “political pep
rally” and questioned whether the justices should continue to
go. Even so, the chief justice attended the following year, the
only one of the court’s five Republican appointees to do so.  Now Roberts has become the man who saved Obama’s signature
law -- and prevented the court from splitting along partisan
lines in the biggest case in years.  “There are important cases in which the chief justice has
to put the court’s interests above his own ideological or
jurisprudential views,” said Anne Joseph O’Connell, a professor
at the University of California Berkeley School of Law. “This
was one such case.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  