-- Roberts Chooses Restraint Over History on Obamacare
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2012-06-28T15:59:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/roberts-chooses-restraint-over-history-on-obamacare.html
If the U.S.  Supreme Court  had wanted
to make history, it could have: Striking down the individual
mandate in the health-care law would have been the most weighty
Supreme Court ruling since  Franklin Roosevelt ’s first New Deal
was ruled unconstitutional three-quarters of a century ago.  By upholding the individual mandate -- after honestly
acknowledging that making people buy insurance is a tax -- the
court chose the more cautious course.  In the spirit of Justices Oliver Wendell Holmes and Felix Frankfurter, the court adopted the strategy of judicial
restraint. The man most responsible for this comes as a
surprise: Chief Justice John Roberts, a tried and tested
conservative appointed by  George W. Bush  to the near-universal
plaudits of the right. Roberts said in his confirmation hearings
that he believed in judicial restraint. That has become a
cliche, repeated by every would-be judge raising a right hand
before a Senate committee. When the chips were down, Roberts did
exactly what he had sworn to do under oath. He stayed the
court’s hand and rejected activism.  The court’s explanations were sufficiently complex that CNN
briefly reported the mandate had been struck down. But the core
logic of the holding was a model of analytic clarity. To require
people to buy insurance or else pay a penalty is a tax. The
Constitution gives Congress the power to tax in order to
accomplish its legitimate goals. Calling the mandate what it in
fact is makes this result crystal-clear.  Word Choice  These words sent a direct message to Democratic politicians
who refused to call the mandate a tax: You should have told us
the truth in the first place. Had the mandate been called a tax
from the beginning, all this legal wrangling might never have
occurred. It would have been essentially impossible to argue
that the mandate was unconstitutional if the bill had directly
relied upon the taxing power.  Of course, politicians are unlikely to take this object
lesson seriously. Calling the mandate a tax might have stopped
it from passing. Now, the mandate has been upheld. The
Democrats’ game of bait-and-switch worked -- after a fashion.
Now the drama of the last several months, and the serious worry
about the court striking down the president’s signature domestic
policy achievement, can be conveniently forgotten.  What is most shocking about the outcome is who brought it
about: Roberts, not Justice  Anthony Kennedy , cast the deciding
fifth vote to uphold the law. When Roberts was up for
confirmation, many liberal insiders to the world of the Supreme
Court bar were optimistic that he would be a reasonable and
evenhanded chief: a conservative, of course, but one who played
by the rules. He had little written record to go on, so no
detail was too small to escape comment. While still a lawyer,
Roberts had occasionally participated alongside liberals in the
private, informal moot courts that are part of the preparation
for a Supreme Court argument.  Once he became chief justice, however, Roberts seemed to
many liberals to have reverted to his origins as a clerk for
former Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist and a longtime
supporter of the Federalist Society, a powerful conservative
legal organization. His decisions have for the most part been
consistent with those of Justices Samuel Alito,  Antonin Scalia 
and  Clarence Thomas , the conservative bloc. Together these four
conservatives have won when Kennedy joined them and lost when he
defected to the liberal side.  Historically Important  In the health-care case, Kennedy joined the conservative
dissent. This is itself worthy of comment, because Kennedy has
become a historically important liberal justice through his
opinions on gay rights and on habeas corpus rights for detainees
at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. But Kennedy has remained a conservative
on issues of the government’s power to regulate; and in the end,
after all the guessing about his views, he stuck with that
position here. One can only speculate on what Kennedy might have
done had Roberts not given him the option of joining the
conservatives in dissent.  Roberts did wave the conservative standard on the question
of Congress’s power to regulate commerce, squarely stating that
the regulation of inaction would have been too great an
extension of the Commerce Clause power. Yet he balked at
stopping Congress from imposing a tax. Conservatives who want to
make the health-care plan into a central campaign issue can take
some small solace in that the court has called the individual
mandate a tax. But there will surely be major shock among those
who counted on Roberts to toe the party line, as there is shock
among those liberals who had given up on the vision of Roberts
as a lawyer’s lawyer.  What explains this result? One possibility is that  John
Roberts , former law clerk, former high-powered Supreme Court
litigator and now chief justice, loves the Supreme Court more
than he loves political conservatism. A student of the history
of the court -- and as a participant in history -- Roberts knew
the consequences of striking down the individual mandate: He
would have been attacked by the president and the news media as
the chief of the most activist conservative court since the
1930s. For “the Roberts Court” to become a title of infamy
would have been a sadly negative culmination of a highly
successful career.  Then there is that most old-fashioned of motivations:
principle. Frankfurter, who did more than anyone to popularize
the idea of judicial restraint, was a liberal New Dealer who
became a judicial conservative because he stuck with the
principle of restraint even when liberals had five votes.  Roberts now enters the pantheon of true judicial
conservatives, judges who hold back from activist results no
matter how it affects presidential politics. By helping the
court avoid making history, Roberts’s place in history is
assured.  ( Noah Feldman , a law professor at  Harvard University  and
the author of “Scorpions: The Battles and Triumphs of FDR’s
Great Supreme Court Justices,” is a Bloomberg View columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read commentary on the health-care ruling by  Paula Dwyer , Francis 
Wilkinson, Josh Barro and others at  the Ticker blog .   To contact the writer of this article:
Noah Feldman in Cambridge, Massachusetts, at
 noah_feldman@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 