-- Rock-Star Chairman Not Waiting for New CEO to Start Fixing Aviva
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-06-28T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/rock-star-chairman-not-waiting-for-new-ceo-to-start-fixing-aviva.html
Aviva Plc (AV/) ’s incoming chairman, John McFarlane, had a message for reporters questioning the insurer’s
change of leadership 10 days after the departure of Chief
Executive Officer  Andrew Moss .  “As far as you’re concerned, I’m the CEO,” McFarlane, 65,
said in a brusque Scottish accent on a May 17 conference call.
The suggestion that a strategic review would make it harder to
find a new CEO was “naive” and “clearly ludicrous,” he said.  McFarlane, who sang in a rock group called the Sekrets in
the 1960s, will inherit on July 2 a company beset by the
 European debt crisis  that has underperformed U.K. insurers by 25
percentage points over five years, and has lower capital
reserves than competitors and a sprawling collection of
businesses across the globe. His straight-talking approach has
done it before, helping turn around  Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  and trebling the share price over his 10
years as CEO, investors, friends and ex-colleagues say.  “He’s a pretty straight shooter from my experience,” said
Siobhan McHale, who worked under McFarlane as global head of
culture and change at ANZ Bank. “Through tough times he would
drive accountability and hold people to account. Like most CEOs
he’d be tough if someone was a serial underperformer.”  Strategic Review  McFarlane announced a strategic review on May 8, the same
day Moss, 54, stepped down from the U.K.’s second-biggest
insurer by market value and he is due to announce the results on
July 5, three days after he officially takes over as chairman.
Aviva was down 60 percent during Moss’s five-year tenure and was
the worst performer in the nine-member  FTSE ASX Life Insurance
Index (FALIFE)  in that period. Even so, McFarlane is in no hurry to
appoint a CEO, a process that is scheduled to take the rest of
this year. He is acting chief executive in the meantime.  “I don’t know whether it’s a U.K. phenomenon that there’s
only one important person in a company and that’s the CEO,” he
said on the call. “The board has the ultimate responsibility
for strategy.”  First on the agenda is to improve Aviva’s capital position,
which is lower and more volatile than its peers, according to
Oliver Steel, a London-based analyst at Deutsche Bank AG with a
buy rating on the stock. McFarlane will also consider selling
underperforming assets and has pledged to mend relations with
investors, 54 percent of whom voted down Aviva’s pay plan at its
annual general meeting, precipitating Moss’s departure.  ANZ Bank  McFarlane is being spurred to act by the worsening
sovereign debt crisis in Europe, where Aviva holds about 18
billion pounds ($28 billion) of sovereign debt, more than any
other U.K. insurer. In 1997, he combated similar pressure at ANZ
Bank, which was underperforming competitors, having lent more to
 Asia  than any other Australian bank as the region went through
its debt crisis, ex-colleagues say.  “He took over a bank that had serious cost problems and
had been underperforming for a long time,” said Brian Hartzer,
who was managing director of ANZ Bank’s consumer finance
division under McFarlane. “He reduced costs dramatically, cut
risk exposures and gave the business strategic focus and a
performance ethic.”  McFarlane was born in Dumfries, a market town 15 miles
north of the border with England where Scotland’s national poet
 Robert Burns  died, and educated at Edinburgh University. He
joined  Ford Motor Co. (F)  before moving to  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s U.K.
division, where over an 18-year career at the bank, he rose to
become its chairman.  McFarlane’s Resume  He then spent four years living between London and Hong
Kong, working for  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  before arriving as CEO
at ANZ in  Melbourne . After leaving ANZ Bank he joined  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  as a non-executive director in 2008 after
it received the world’s biggest bank bailout. He stepped down
this year to take the Aviva job, which paid his predecessor,
Colin Sharman, 569,000 pounds in 2011. McFarlane’s pay will be
disclosed in next year’s annual report, Aviva said.  McFarlane said the strategic review will center on Aviva’s
capital reserves, selling assets, improving operational
performance and repairing relations with investors.  “We are looking for a cohesive strategy to emerge, focused
on the strong business units, where they have a competitive
advantage and add value,” said James Lowen, who helps manage 1
billion pounds including Aviva shares at JO Hambro Capital
Management Ltd. in London. “We agree with the outlined new
strategy that it would be positive to increase capital slightly
and reduce its volatility. We would favor asset sales.”  Springsteen Fan  While Aviva’s investors await a change of direction for the
company, they already have a different personality at the helm.
McFarlane, who plays guitar as well as sings, performed Bruce
Springsteen songs at ANZ Bank staff parties and said in 2002 he
preferred going to rock concerts than Australian football
matches. Moss, who wore double-breasted suits, favored gardening
and watching cricket.  McFarlane, who declined to be interviewed for this article
before the investor presentation, has dealt with adversity
before. When he joined Melbourne-based ANZ Bank in 1997, the
lender was losing money in Asia, had the highest costs of any
Australian bank and had lost A$200 million ($201 million)
trading Russian bonds in London.  After four years under McFarlane, ANZ Bank had the lowest
cost-to-income ratio of all of  Australia ’s banks and its return
on equity rose 5 percentage points to 20.1 percent. McFarlane
cut the bank’s lending in Asia to less than $8 billion as he
focused on its Australian customers.  ANZ Rebounds  ANZ “had forays into Asia and lost a lot of money in that
process,” said Will Malcolm, a former ANZ investor who helps
manage $3 billion at Edinburgh-based Standard Life Plc, Aviva’s
10th biggest  shareholder . McFarlane “helped re-establish the
bank’s credibility and that was reflected in the strong
performance of the stock price.”  During McFarlane’s decade in charge of the lender to
September 2007, ANZ Bank  stock  rose 211 percent to A$29.70.
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia , the nation’s biggest lender by
market value, rose 271 percent in that period as the Australian
economy boomed due to Chinese demand for natural resources.  It wasn’t all good news. As part of the bank’s withdrawal
from Asia, McFarlane sold its Indian unit to  Standard Chartered 
for A$2.2 billion in 2000. ANZ Grindlays was one of the three
biggest foreign banks in the world’s second-most populous nation
and increased profit by 27 percent a year in the decade to 2010,
when it made $1.2 billion. ANZ Bank re-entered the Indian market
last year.  McFarlane’s strategic review of Aviva’s 45 businesses will
be “much deeper” than anything carried out under Moss, he said
in May. The company will exit any markets that don’t meet its
targeted returns, McFarlane said.  CEO Candidates  A sale of Aviva’s U.S. business, the 14th biggest annuity
provider in the country according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
if accompanied by disposals of its stake in Dutch insurer  Delta
Lloyd NV (DL)  and several smaller Asian units, would boost its
reserves to 170 percent of the amount required by regulators,
Deutsche Bank’s Steel said. That measure was about 145 percent
in March. It could also be boosted by cutting the dividend,
Steel said.  McFarlane said last month he will tackle these issues
without a CEO. A primary external candidate is Andy Haste, 50,
former  RSA Insurance Group Plc (RSA)  CEO and the top internal one is
Finance Director Pat Regan, 46, according to analysts Barrie Cornes at Panmure Gordon & Co. and Eamonn Flanagan at Shore
Capital Group Ltd.  At ANZ, McFarlane was known for promoting young, internal
candidates to positions of responsibility, suggesting Regan may
be his preferred choice.  ‘Leadership Coach’  “John was willing to give young people an opportunity to
develop in more senior roles, and there are several examples of
his willingness to take a risk with this,” said Elmer Funke Kupper, who worked as managing director for Asia Pacific at ANZ
under McFarlane. “Finding myself in such a role, I found him a
good leadership coach.” Funke Kupper, 46, is now CEO of  ASX
Ltd. (ASX) , operator of Australia’s main stock exchange.  One of McFarlane’s strengths was motivating and retaining
employees, according to McHale, who ran a cultural change
program at ANZ Bank called Breakout, which became a Harvard
Business School case study.  As part of his drive to improve productivity and
accountability, McFarlane once had the firm’s annual report
designed to put a photo of each divisional CEO above the
accounts they managed, according to Hartzer, who is moving from
RBS to Sydney-based Westpac Banking Corp.  “John believes in hiring good people, giving them clear
objectives and letting them get on with it,” he said. “He is
tough but fair on performance, and if you don’t deliver then you
know about it.”  Aviva Cutbacks  McFarlane gave each employee A$1,000 of free shares soon
after joining and regularly organized leadership training
sessions and recreational events for workers, where he would
often play guitar, said McHale, now general manager of culture
and executive learning at  Transfield Services Ltd. (TSE)  One Christmas
he sent a bottle of champagne and a card to employees working on
the Breakout program, according to a  report  on corporate change
by McKinsey & Co.  Such methods may be needed at Aviva, which announced its
heads of Europe,  North America , Russia and  investment management 
were leaving less than a month before Moss stepped down. The
firm, which is also cutting jobs in the U.K. and Ireland,
mistakenly sent an e-mail in April dismissing the entire staff
of Aviva Investors, its 1,300-employee investment unit.  McFarlane has also made mistakes. ANZ Bank, with other
Australian lenders, paid radio broadcasters who had previously
been critical of banks to say positive things about it and the
industry without disclosing the payments in 1999. The “cash for
comment” scandal prompted the Australian Broadcasting Authority
to set out new license conditions for broadcasters.  ‘Seriously Embarrassed’  “I was seriously embarrassed by that, and I have to claim,
of course, I’m as guilty as anybody else here because I sat
through the meetings,” McFarlane said in a 2002 radio  interview 
with the Australian Broadcasting Corp. “The fact that I had
just arrived in Australia and I didn’t know who any of these
people were doesn’t excuse me from what was clearly a wrong type
of decision.”  Another attempt at publicity also went wrong in 2002, when
McFarlane made a low-ball bid to buy 56 rural branches that
National Australia Bank Ltd. had earmarked to be closed. The
offer was called “unrealistic” by NAB. McFarlane said in the
interview with ABC that the bid was “cheeky” and that it was
an attempt to highlight ANZ’s commitment to rural areas.  “On reflection I think I’d handle it a different way
today,” he said. “But underlying it was something real.”  In any case, Aviva’s investors can expect a chairman who
embraces change. Soon after arriving at ANZ Bank, McFarlane was
told by a parking attendant that his flame-red Chrysler Jeep
wasn’t allowed in the bank’s parking lot because the former CEO
had banned red vehicles after his car was damaged by one.  McFarlane said in a 2004 interview he left his Jeep there
for several weeks to make the point that things were going to
change. “I make the rules now,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  