-- Rubenstein Seeks D.C. Home for $2.1 Million Proclamation
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2012-06-28T18:03:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/rubenstein-seeks-d-c-home-for-2-1-million-proclamation.html
Financier and philanthropist  David Rubenstein  said he will lend a copy of the Emancipation
Proclamation signed by  Abraham Lincoln  to a major institution in
Washington.  The co-chief executive officer of the  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  paid
$2.1 million for the rare document in a sale at  Robert A. Siegel
Auction  Galleries Inc. in  New York  on June 26.  “I bought it because I have a general view that Americans
need to know more about our country’s history,” Rubenstein said
in a telephone interview. “I don’t want to put it in my house.
How many people are going to see that?”  The details of where the document will land are still being
worked out, he said. Another copy of the Emancipation
Proclamation owned by Rubenstein is on loan to the White House,
where it’s displayed in the Oval Office.  On Jan. 1, 1863, as the Civil War raged, Lincoln signed the
Emancipation Proclamation, abolishing slavery within the states
that had seceded.  The official copy, featuring his signature and the seal of
the U.S., is at the National Archives. The original, handwritten
by Lincoln, was destroyed in the Chicago Fire of 1871, according
to  Harold Holzer , a Lincoln scholar who has written or edited 42
books about the president.  In 1864, Lincoln signed four dozen printed copies of the
Emancipation Proclamation to raise money for the Union troops.
Priced at $10 apiece, some went unsold, Holzer said.  Rubenstein now owns two of those copies. In 2010, another
copy, once owned by Robert F. Kennedy, fetched $3.8 million at
 Sotheby’s. (BID)   ‘Great Souvenir’  The document Rubenstein bought this week “is one of the
great souvenir copies he signed to benefit the wounded
soldiers,” Holzer said, in a telephone interview. “At the time
they were signed in 1864, the soldiers included African American
soldiers. The Emancipation Proclamation already had a tremendous
impact.”  The 13th Amendment to the Constitution, adopted on Dec. 6,
1865, outlawed slavery throughout the country.  “The army no longer had to do the liberating,” Holzer
said. “It made slavery unconstitutional. It had the same
momentous impact as today’s health-care ruling.”  Rubenstein’s copy of the 13th Amendment was recently on
view at the New-York Historical Society. A copy of the Magna
Carta Rubenstein bought for $21.3 million at Sotheby’s in 2007
is on loan to the  National Archives .  “The documents I buy celebrate freedom,” Rubenstein said.  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars.  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 