-- Rupee Advances Most in Three Weeks on Singh Pledge: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2012-06-28T12:40:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/rupee-advances-most-in-three-weeks-on-singh-pledge-mumbai-mover.html
India ’s rupee gained the most in
three weeks as Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said reviving
investor confidence in the nation is one of his top priorities
after taking charge of the  finance ministry .  The currency was also supported by bigger-than-expected
gains in U.S. housing and durable-goods orders, boosting
confidence in global growth. Those signs of resilience
outweighed concern that a two-day summit that starts today in
Brussels to tackle Europe’s debt crisis won’t yield results
after German Chancellor Angela Merkel hardened her position
against joint euro bonds.  We are awaiting “further clarity on immediate  Reserve Bank 
of India and government moves, as well as developments in the
euro area,” analysts at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., including
Mumbai-based Tushar Poddar, wrote in a report today. “We remain
positive on the rupee on a medium-term basis.”  The rupee advanced 0.6 percent to 56.8075 per dollar in
Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, the biggest
gain since June 7. The currency has dropped 10.4 percent this
quarter, the worst performance since the three months through
September 1991, and has declined 6.6 percent this year. It
touched 57.3275 on June 22, the weakest level on record. While
the rupee may fall further in the “near term”, it will
strengthen to 50 in a year, according to Goldman Sachs.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate
swings used to price options, fell 30 basis points, or 0.30
percentage point, to 11.80 percent.  ‘Challenging Times’  “At the current juncture, we are passing through
challenging times economically,” Singh said in a statement in
 New Delhi  yesterday. “We need to work to get the economy going
again and restart the India growth story. In the short run, we
need to revive investor sentiment, both domestic and
international.” Singh assumed the finance role on June 26 after
 Pranab Mukherjee  resigned to contest presidential elections.  Downside risks to India’s growth are “likely to persist,”
the central bank said in its Financial Stability Report for
September to March, published today. The monetary authority
cited  risk aversion , the  budget deficit , current-account
shortfall and food inflation as some of the threats faced by the
country.  “There is speculation that the government will now
announce strong measures to support the economy and currency,”
said Kamlakar Rao, head of foreign exchange trading at state-run
 Allahabad Bank (ALBK)  in Mumbai. “We saw exporters selling dollars
near the close of trading hours on the view that 57 may be the
best price they can get.”  Three-month onshore currency forwards traded at 57.99 per
dollar, compared with 58.23 yesterday, and offshore non-
deliverable contracts were at 58.13 from 58.29. Forwards are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-
deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  