-- Assad’s Exit Focus of Geneva Meeting as Russia Objects
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-06-29T16:45:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/russia-said-to-make-counter-proposal-to-annan-s-syria-transition.html
Russia heads to tomorrow’s Geneva
meeting on United Nations envoy  Kofi Annan ’s plan for a handover
of power in  Syria  amid conflicting accounts about its
willingness to cut ties to President Bashar al-Assad.  Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  said yesterday that there is
no agreement yet on Assad’s fate. Leaks to the press suggesting
otherwise were an “unscrupulous approach to diplomacy,” he
told reporters in Moscow.  Persuading Assad to step aside and not be part of a
transitional government paving the way for elections is at the
core of Annan’s plan to be discussed at the foreign ministers’
meeting. The outlook for action may depend on whether, as some
diplomats said on condition of anonymity, Russia is prepared to
break with its long-time ally Assad, who is battling a growing
uprising that began in March last year.  “The Russians do not like to have deals they are cutting
in private to be exposed in public” before what they view is
the right time, said Jeff Laurenti, a UN analyst at the Century
Foundation in  New York , in a telephone interview. “They are
very concerned that their so-called partners on the other side
may be leaking it to force their hands to do more than what they
have signaled they were ready to do.”  The Annan document says the interim government may include
members of Assad’s government and opposition and other groups,
although it “would exclude from government those whose
continued presence and participation would undermine the
transition and jeopardize stability and reconciliation.”  The document, obtained today by Bloomberg News, was cited
earlier on a blog by Nabil Abi Saab of Alhurra TV.  Russia Denial  All of the conference invitees, including  Russia , signed
off on the contents of the paper, according to three UN
officials who asked not to be identified because the talks are
being conducted in private.  Russia denied such an understanding. It has made a
different proposal and won’t support any imposed power handover,
according to a Russian Foreign Ministry official, who also asked
not to be identified discussing confidential talks.  Assad said this week that his country is in a state of war.
Syria’s official broadcaster said today that scores of
“terrorists” were killed and many more injured in clashes in
Douma, near Damascus.  The Syrian army bombed cities including Douma, Deir El Zour
and Harasta, and there were protests throughout the country
after Friday prayers, Rami Abdel Rahman of the U.K.-based Syrian
Observatory for  Human Rights  said in an e-mail.  Death Toll  More than 10,000 people have died in the conflict,
according to UN estimates. At least 30 people were killed today,
according to the Local Coordination Committees, an activist
group. The group issued an appeal for members of the Syrian army
to defect, saying that more than 15,000 people have been killed
since the start of the uprising against the Assad regime.  Tensions also have risen with neighboring  Turkey , a member
of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, after Syria shot down
a Turkish warplane that it said violated its territory and
Turkey said was in international airspace, on June 22.  Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  said this week that
Turkey had changed its military rules of engagement after the
incident and that any military element approaching the Turkish
border from Syria could be viewed as a threat and treated as a
military target.  Geneva Agenda  Turkey sent anti-aircraft guns and vehicles equipped with
Stinger surface-to-air missiles to the border,  Hurriyet
newspaper  said today.  Scheduled to attend the Geneva conference are the foreign
ministers of the five permanent UN Security Council members --
 China ,  France , Russia, the U.K., and the U.S. -- as well as
Qatar, Kuwait and  Iraq .  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said countries
attending the meeting on Syria were doing so on the basis of the
plan proposed by Annan.  Clinton said during a visit to  Latvia  yesterday that it was
clear from the invitations to the conference that “people were
coming on the basis of the transition plan.” She will discuss
the issue with Lavrov today in  St. Petersburg .  “A pre-agreed project doesn’t exist,” Lavrov said
yesterday at a news conference with Tunisian Foreign Minister
Rafik Abdessalem in Moscow. “The work on the document
continues.”  Russian Shift  While Russians will stick to their public statements that
foreign powers can’t impose regime change, there has been a
shift in private, according to two UN diplomats speaking on
condition of anonymity. They said Russia is keen to raise its
standing in the region by acting as a peace broker.  “Russians have seen the outcome of just letting Assad
handle this the old-fashioned way and the facts on the ground
speak for themselves,” Laurenti said. They have come to a
realization “he won’t be able to ride it out,” he said.  Russia has become too entrenched in the Syrian conflict to
suddenly make a U-turn and embrace a full regime change, Lilit Gevorgyan, a London-based analyst at IHS Global Insight, said in
an e-mail. Russia will push for a Yemen-style change that will
seek to preserve the backbone of Assad’s government and even
involve the Syrian president’s departure provided that he is not
brought to trial, she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  