-- South Korea Eyes Bigger Fiscal Response to Europe Threat
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-06-29T02:32:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/s-korea-cuts-growth-forecast-cites-protracted-crisis-in-europe.html
South Korea  indicated that it’s
preserving fiscal firepower for worsening economic conditions
after  Europe ’s debt crisis triggered a cut to the nation’s
growth forecast.  The government’s 8.5 trillion won ($7.4 billion) of
economic support measures announced yesterday, including
assistance for small businesses and low-income earners, leaves
room for a bigger response if conditions deteriorate, said Choi
Sang Mok, a director-general at the finance ministry.  Europe’s austerity drive is capping demand for Asian
exports, with surging borrowing costs for  Spain  showing the euro
region has yet to contain its crisis. South Korea’s gross
domestic product may expand 3.3 percent this year, less than a
December estimate of 3.7 percent, the Finance Ministry said
yesterday in Gwacheon, south of Seoul.  “The  European debt crisis  is such a big challenge that
South Korea will have to struggle to meet even the lowered
growth target,” said Kim Nam Hyun, a Seoul-based fixed income
analyst at Eugene Investment & Futures. “The worst may not be
over yet.”  The government also yesterday announced incentives to
attract foreign-currency deposits to banks, a buffer against
volatility in capital flows. The cut to the growth forecast
followed the central bank paring its estimate to 3.5 percent
from 3.7 percent. The finance ministry predicts a 4.3 percent
expansion next year.  Industrial  output  rose a more-than-expected 1.1 percent 
in May from the previous month, according to a report from 
Statistics Korea today.   ‘Long-Term Threat’  “We now perceive the euro zone crisis as a long-term
threat to the South Korean economy,” Finance Minister Bahk Jae
Wan said yesterday. “We need to store up enough fiscal measures
to endure this long journey and build strong economic
fundamentals.”  He said the latest financial measures used money from the
existing budget.  South Korea’s Kospi Index of stocks fell 0.2 percent at
11:27 a.m. in  Seoul , and is down 0.5 percent this year. That
compares with a gain of about 5 percent for  Japan ’s Nikkei 225
Stock Average and 4 percent for  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index.  “South Korea’s growth momentum is weak, but it is faring
well given deteriorating external conditions,” Choi said.
Europe’s crisis “will continue for a long time,” he added.  Reduced Levies  Depositors outside South Korea will be exempt from interest
income tax on foreign-currency savings at the nation’s banks,
the ministry said. Banks will pay reduced levies on their
foreign-currency borrowings if they attract more foreign-
currency deposits, it said.  “The spread of the euro-zone fiscal crisis and belt-
tightening in major advanced economies may slow global economic
growth,” the  finance ministry  said. “Recession in the euro-
zone may deepen amid fiscal tightening and political turmoil
while financial markets show continued jitters.”  South Korea’s inflation this year may be 2.8 percent rather
than a past 3.2 percent prediction, the finance ministry said.  In a bright spot, the government sees stronger employment
growth this year -- 400,000 jobs, up from a previous estimate of
280,000. Services industries such as health care are hiring more
workers than expected to meet increasing demand, the finance
ministry said.  Exports have fallen for three straight months from a year
earlier. South Korean officials also face weakness in the
housing market and the inflationary impact of a drought that’s
brought the driest spell in more than a century to the capital
of Seoul and increased the prices of some foods.  “Consumers are sensitive to price increases in everyday
items, especially food,” Lee Sung Kwon, an economist at Shinhan
Investment Corp. in Seoul, said this week. “Although food
prices account for about 10 percent or less in the  consumer
price index , they’re volatile and tend to have a bigger
impact.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net ;
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  