-- Sasol Sees Profit Gain on Stronger Oil, Weaker Currency
-- B y   C a r l i   C o o k e
-- 2012-06-28T16:35:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/sasol-sees-profit-gain-on-stronger-oil-weaker-currency.html
Sasol Ltd. (SOL) , the world’s largest
producer of motor fuels from coal, forecast higher earnings in
the fiscal year ending this month after  oil prices  rose.  “The high oil price combined with a weakening of the rand-
dollar exchange rate resulted in a 31 percent rise in average
domestic fuel prices,” it said today in a statement. Fixed-cost
gains will be in line with producer-price inflation, it said.  The Johannesburg-based company gets most of its profit from
South African synthetic fuel, or synfuel, operations that use
the company’s proprietary Fischer-Tropsch technology to produce
gasoline and diesel from coal. Sasol is the largest fuel
producer in the country, where prices are regulated based on
factors including oil and currency rates.  Oil has traded at an average $94.99 a barrel since June 30
from $84.41 a year earlier. The rand has averaged 7.78 a dollar
since June 30, 9.9 percent weaker than a year earlier.  “We will deliver solid operational results and increased
earnings for the 2012 financial year,” Sasol said. It reported
profit of 19.8 billion rand ($2.4 billion), or 32.85 rand a
share last year. Excluding one-time items, the earnings were
33.85 rand a share. In comparison, the median  estimate  of 15
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg is for 48.21 rand this year.  Synthetic Fuels  Sasol produced 5.26 million metric tons of synthetic fuels
in  South Africa ’s fiscal year ended in March and expects that to
increase to 7.1 million tons this year. The company, which also
produces fuel from crude oil in a venture with  Total SA (FP) , said it
has stopped buying oil from  Iran . Iran accounted for 20 percent
of input at the Natref refinery in South Africa, Sasol said.  Sasol’s Canadian shale-gas assets showed a “substantial
loss,” it said, adding they’re under pressure partly because of
low gas prices. The company will write off $56.8 million of
capitalized costs after studies showed developing the Mozambican
Njika gas field isn’t economic.  Talisman Energy Inc. won’t proceed with a feasibility study
for a proposed gas-to-fuels plant in  Canada , the company said
separately today. There are “better ways to allocate capital in
support of our strategy,” Calgary-based Talisman said.  The study was part of an accord last year in which Sasol
agreed to spend $2 billion for a stake in Talisman’s Montney
shale-gas fields in British Columbia.  Sasol dropped by 2 percent to 339.69 rand, the lowest since
Oct. 11, by the close of trading in Johannesburg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  