-- HSBC, ANZ May Be Asked to Incorporate Local Units in Singapore
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2012-06-28T13:20:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/hsbc-anz-may-be-asked-to-incorporate-local-units-in-singapore.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., among foreign lenders allowed to
take retail deposits in  Singapore , may have to incorporate a
local subsidiary.  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , ICICI Bank Ltd., Malayan Banking Bhd. and
 State Bank of India , the other financial institutions with so-
called qualifying full bank privileges, may also have to set up
locally-incorporated units in the city-state depending on
several measures including their share of domestic deposits, the
 Monetary Authority of Singapore  said in a statement today.  If locally-incorporated, the banks will have to meet the
country’s more stringent capital requirements, helping solidify
the island’s reputation as a financial hub. Lenders incorporated
in the country will need to meet a minimum common equity Tier 1
capital adequacy ratio of 6.5 percent starting Jan. 1, 2015, the
MAS said in June 2011. That’s 2 percentage points more than the
so-called Basel III rules announced in 2010.  “For QFBs with a significant share of domestic retail
deposits, local incorporation is an additional safeguard for
domestic retail depositors,” MAS said in the statement today.
It can also demonstrate the bank’s commitment to depositors and
other stakeholders, the central bank said.  Among other foreign lenders with QFB privileges,  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  has been locally incorporated since 2004 and  Standard
Chartered Plc  announced on Feb. 29 that it will locally
incorporate its consumer and small and medium enterprises
banking activities in Singapore.  As a next step, if MAS deems local units in Singapore to be
“significantly rooted,” the central bank may give the lender
the option to open 25 additional places of business, 10 of which
can be branches, according to the statement. To determine if a
QFB is “significantly rooted” the MAS will consider a range of
attributes including whether the city-state contributes a
substantial portion of the bank’s profit, or a majority of its
local subsidiary’s board members are Singapore citizens and
permanent residents.  Under existing rules, a QFB can have 25 retail outlets
including branches and automated teller machines.  “MAS will continue to liberalize the domestic banking
sector in a progressive and calibrated manner,” Deputy Prime
Minister  Tharman Shanmugaratnam  said. “We will allow greater
foreign bank participation in Singapore’s domestic financial
system in a way that strengthens financial stability and that
encourages foreign banks to deepen their roots here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  