-- SEC Money Fund Plan, Market Handbook, NRC: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-06-28T12:57:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/sec-money-fund-plan-market-handbook-nrc-compliance.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission was presented with a 337-page staff proposal to
require the $2.5 trillion money-market fund industry to float
share prices or hold more capital and curb redemptions,
according to a person familiar with the proposal.  The proposal may put the SEC on course for a clash among
commissioners and with the industry. The plan won’t advance if
the three commissioners who have already raised concerns about
its impact on money funds hold firm. If SEC Chairman  Mary
Schapiro  wins enough support to release the proposal for public
comment, the agency will face renewed opposition from the U.S.
 Chamber of Commerce  and  Federated Investors Inc.  Chief Executive
 Christopher Donahue , who has threatened to sue if a rule is
ultimately adopted.  SEC staff delivered the measure to the five commissioners
on June 25, two people said. It tracks with provisions Schapiro
outlined in testimony last week before the  Senate Banking
Committee  and includes multiple questions for the public, the
people said. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke and Treasury
Secretary Timothy F. Geithner have sided with Schapiro in her
bid to rewrite money-fund rules.  The two Republican commissioners, Troy Parades and Daniel
Gallagher, are opposed to additional regulation for money-market
funds and  Luis Aguilar , a Democrat, has expressed concern about
the impact on the industry of changes in money-market fund
rules.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment on the
proposal.  For more, click here.  Special Section: Libor Probe  Osborne Says Diamond Has ‘Serious Questions’ to Answer  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne speaks in
the House of Commons in London about the international
investigation into manipulation of the London interbank offered
rate.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  Chief Executive Officer Bob Diamond has
“serious questions” to answer about the bank’s role in
falsifying Libor rate submissions, said Osborne.  For the video, click here.  Barclays Fines May Be ‘Tip of the Iceberg,’ Pitt Says  Former U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman
Harvey Pitt talked about record fines imposed by U.S. and U.K.
regulators against Barclays Plc after the bank admitted it
submitted false London and euro interbank offered rates.  He spoke with  Cory Johnson  and Peter Cook on Bloomberg
Television’s “Taking Stock.”  For more, click here.  Barclays $451 Million Libor Fine Paves Way for Competitors  Barclays Plc’s record $451 million settlement offers a road
map for how U.S. and U.K. authorities will pursue sanctions in a
global investigation of interest rate manipulation that has
ensnared more than a dozen banks.  Barclays traders routinely coordinated with counterparts
from at least four other banks in an attempt to move interest
rate benchmarks, according to documents released yesterday by
the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the U.S. Justice
Department and the U.K. Financial Services Authority. The
benchmarks included the London interbank offered rate, or Libor,
and Euribor, a related euro-denominated rate. In both cases, the
goal was to generate profits on derivatives held by the banks,
the agencies said.  The settlement puts “a great deal of pressure” on other
banks to settle because it creates a precedent, said banks to
settle because somebody has set a precedent,’’ said Jerry W.
Markham, a law professor at Florida International University.  For more, click here.  Barclays CEO Under Pressure to Resign From U.K. Lawmakers  Barclays Plc Chief Executive Officer  Bob Diamond  is under
pressure from U.K. lawmakers to resign after the bank was fined
$451 million for attempting to manipulate the inter-bank lending
rate, known as Libor.  Prime Minister David Cameron said today the bank has
questions to answer, while  Ed Miliband , leader of the opposition
Labour Party, demanded a criminal investigation into the matter.
That call was echoed by London Mayor Boris Johnson.  Barclays, the U.K.’s second-largest bank by assets, said
yesterday that Diamond and three other executives will forgo
their bonuses this year. Investigators concluded that traders at
Barclays lied to make the bank appear secure during the
financial turmoil of 2008 and to make a profit, sometimes
colluding with workers in at least four other banks.  Diamond, who earned as much as 6.3 million pounds in
salary, bonuses and stock awards for 2011 as well as a 5.75
million-pound ($8.9 million) contribution toward his personal
tax bill, used a  BBC speech  last year to call for banks to be
“better citizens.”  For more, click here.  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said to
parliament that the Libor probe showed systemic failures at the
heart of the system.  For more, click here and click here.  Barclays Fine Shows Need to Fund U.S. Regulators, Wolin Says  The Barclays Plc settlements on interbank rates shows the
need for the U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading Commission  and the
Securities and Exchange Commission to be “appropriately
funded,” the Treasury Department’s No. 2 official said.  “When they’re not funded appropriately, there aren’t the
right number of people policing these markets, which need, of
course, to be policed,” Deputy Treasury Secretary Neal Wolin
said yesterday in an interview on CNBC television.  Barclays was fined 290 million pounds ($451.4 million)
after admitting it submitted false London and euro interbank
offered rates. The settlements were reached with the U.K.’s
 Financial Services Authority , the CFTC and the U.S. Department
of Justice.  House Republicans are seeking to cut the CFTC’s fiscal 2013
budget, while Senate Democrats seek to increase it.  Compliance Policy  Trade Groups Set Up Regulation Handbook for Banks, Utilities  Banks including Barclays Plc and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and
utilities such as  RWE AG (RWE)  and  EON AG (EOAN)  will have access to a
financial market regulation handbook by the end of July, a group
of four European trade associations said.  The pan-European manual will set out guidelines for
implementation of four European Union financial trading
regulations in asset classes including energy, Anthony
Belchambers, chief executive officer of the  Futures and Options
Association , said yesterday at a press conference in London.  The global credit freeze and record oil prices of 2008
prompted regulators around the world to bring bilateral over-
the-counter derivatives trading onto transparent platforms such
as the ICE Futures Europe and Nord Pool Spot AS exchanges that
require data disclosure before and after a trade takes place.  The manual will have guidance for implementation of the
Markets in Financial Instruments Directive, known as MiFID, the
Market Abuse Directive, or MAD, the European Market
Infrastructure Regulation, or EMIR, and some aspects of the
Regulation for Energy Market Integrity and Transparency, or
Remit.  The manual is being set up by the Futures and Options
Association, the European Federation of Energy Traders, the
Wholesale Market Brokers Association and the Association of
Private Client and Investment Managers.  EU Plans Illegal Online Gambling Crackdown, Rules on Legal Sites  The European Union will publish an action plan later this
year to rein in illegal and “unregulated” online gambling.  The paper will include measures to clamp down “on the many
illegal websites, often hosted in offshore havens,” that offer
gambling services,  Michel Barnier , the EU internal market chief,
said in a speech in Brussels yesterday.  The European Commission will also propose measures to
regulate and supervise legal gaming sites, Barnier said. The
action plan will be published this fall, he said.  Compliance Action  State Regulators in U.S. Examine Structured Note Sales Practices  A group of U.S. state securities regulators is seeking
information on the sales practices of 10 structured-note issuers
after a similar request from the Securities and Exchange
Commission.  The regulators sent letters to the issuers this month, said
Ronak Patel, co-head of the group for the  North American
Securities Administrators Association . Patel, who is also deputy
securities commissioner of Texas, declined to elaborate since it
is the policy of some states not to confirm or deny ongoing
investigations, he said.  The U.S. structured-note industry, which sells bank bonds
bundled with derivatives for customized bets, has come under
scrutiny from regulators for the securities’ complexity and lack
of  transparency . The SEC asked banks that issue the securities
to boost disclosures to investors in April, including the banks’
own estimates for the securities’ market value at the time of
sale. Some individual states have started investigations.
Florida, Massachusetts and Georgia opened examinations of the
products last year.  State Shuts U.S. College Lead-Generator Aimed at Military  Kentucky Attorney General Jack Conway announced a
multistate settlement to shut down a website called GIBill.com
that drives business to for-profit colleges.  The military-themed website, operated by a Foster City,
California-based company,  QuinStreet Inc. (QNST) , will be turned over
to the government as part of the deal. The company will also pay
a $2.5 million fine.  Conway said in a news release that the company “preyed on
our veterans.”  QuinStreet, in a statement filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission yesterday, said it “does not engage in
deceptive marketing practices and does not believe that its
websites were misleading prior to the agreement.”  Other states participating in the agreement are Alabama,
Arizona, Arkansas, Delaware, Florida, Idaho, Illinois, Iowa,
Kentucky, Massachusetts, Mississippi, Missouri, New York,
Nevada, North Carolina, Ohio, Oregon, South Carolina, Tennessee
and West Virginia, according to Conway’s announcement.  Courts  Falcone Sued by SEC Over Personal Loan, Market Manipulation  Philip Falcone , the founder of hedge fund Harbinger Capital
Partners LLC, was sued by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, a move that could end his plan to run a  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc (BRK/A) .-style holding company if the regulator wins the
case.  Falcone misappropriated client assets, favored selected
investors and manipulated bond prices, the SEC said in its
lawsuit.  The SEC is seeking disgorgement of ill-gotten gains,
unspecified financial penalties and a bar prohibiting Falcone,
49, from serving as an officer or director of any public
company, according to a statement by the agency.  Lew Phelps, a spokesman for New York-based Harbinger, said
he had no immediate comment. Matthew Dontzin, an attorney for
Falcone, said this week that Falcone would contest an SEC
lawsuit involving the allegations.  The SEC action is the second blow in less than two months
for Falcone, a former Harvard hockey center who built a $26
billion hedge fund by 2008 with a successful bet against
subprime mortgages. Having suffered $23 billion in losses and
withdrawals from the peak, Falcone is now fighting to keep
control of his empire. LightSquared Inc., Harbinger Capital’s
biggest investment, filed for bankruptcy in May.  For more, click here.  Bollore Loses Court Challenge Over 21 Million-Euro EU Fine  Bollore SA (BOL) , an investment company controlled by French
billionaire Vincent Bollore, lost a court challenge to a 21
million-euro ($26.2 million) European Union antitrust fine for
fixing the prices on some paper products.  The EU’s General Court rejected the company’s arguments
that the fine should be canceled or reduced because regulators
didn’t respect Bollore’s defense rights in fining its former
Copigraph unit, the Luxembourg-based tribunal said June 26.  Bollore will appeal the ruling to the EU’s highest court,
the European Court of Justice, Michel Calzaroni, an external
spokesman for the company in Paris, said in an e-mail.  France’s Bollore, Papierfabrik August Koehler AG and
Distribuidora Vizcaina de Papeles, known as Divipa, were among
10 companies the European Commission fined a combined 314
million euros in 2001 for rigging prices in the 850 million-euro
market for carbonless paper from 1992 to 1995.  The case is  T-372/10  Bollore v Commission.  Interviews  Hoenig Says Glass-Steagall Revival Necessary  Thomas Hoenig, a Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
board member, who retired as president of the Federal Reserve
Bank of Kansas City before joining the FDIC in April, said a
reinstatement of the Glass-Steagall Act will “prevent another
catastrophe of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.”  Hoenig talked to Kathleen Hays and Vonnie Quinn on “The
Hays Advantage” on Bloomberg Radio on June 26, 2012.  For the audio, click here.  Rehn Says EU Is Seeking to Break Link Between Banks, Governments  European Union  Economic and Monetary Affairs  Commissioner
 Olli Rehn  said officials in the EU are seeking to break a
“negative spiral” caused by links between distressed euro-area
governments and banks.  Rehn made the remarks at a conference yesterday in
Brussels.  He spoke after finance ministers held a conference call on
Spain and Cyprus, the fourth and fifth euro nations to seek
emergency aid following 386 billion euros ($481 billion) in
rescue pledges to Greece, Ireland and Portugal. EU leaders meet
today, their 19th gathering to tackle the debt crisis.  Rehn said European policy makers must examine short-term
actions including steps to ease the connection between
governments and banks.  “We need to be ready to consider more immediate measures
to stabilize financial markets, especially government bond
markets,” he said. “The weakening of the negative links
between the sovereigns and the banks is a key issue in this
respect because, for the moment, we are in a situation where we
have a negative spiral between banking problems and the
sovereign-debt crisis.”  Rehn said debt sharing, an idea supported by distressed
euro governments and opposed by German Chancellor Angela Merkel,
may take years because it would require deeper economic
integration.  For more, click here and click here.  Comings and Goings  NRC Chief Failed to Collaborate, Didn’t Break Rules, Report Says  Nuclear Regulatory Commission Chairman  Gregory Jaczko 
didn’t exceed his authority during the Japan nuclear crisis
though he had frequently intimidated staff who disagreed with
him, the agency’s watchdog said.  Senior executives and commissioners described to the
watchdog instances where “bullying tactics” caused them to
side with Jaczko over their own judgments, according to the
agency’s inspector general in a report released yesterday.  Jaczko, 41, who announced his resignation May 21, has been
criticized by lawmakers, colleagues and watchdog Hubert T. Bell
for bullying employees and mistreating female staff. President
Barack Obama nominated  Allison Macfarlane , a geologist and
expert on atomic waste, to replace him.  “I have felt confident all along that my actions have been
consistent with my responsibilities and authorities as chairman,
and certainly that there was no wrongdoing,” Jaczko said in an
e-mailed statement yesterday. “The report raises nothing new of
substance.”  The report found that Jaczko didn’t violate internal
procedures when he asked the staff to retract a report about the
Japanese accident, and that his November testimony to Congress
was inconsistent with statements delivered to the inspector
general by the NRC staff.  The Senate’s vote on Macfarlane, a geologist and professor
at George Mason University, may come later this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 