-- Serbia’s Dacic Pledges No Return to 1990s as Cabinet Talks Begin
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2012-06-28T15:18:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/serbia-s-dacic-pledges-no-return-to-1990s-as-cabinet-talks-begin.html
Serbia ’s Prime Minister Designate
Ivica Dacic said his Socialist Party is ready to begin talks
with President Tomislav Nikolic’s with the Progressive Party
tomorrow to form a government “soon.”  Dacic, 46, a former colleague of late strongman  Slobodan
Milosevic , pledged there won’t be a “return of the 1990s,” a
decade of Milosevic’s rule marked by a series of wars that
accompanied the violent breakup of the former  Yugoslavia ,
economic collapse and a surge in poverty. Milosevic was handed
over to the war crimes court in The Hague 11 years ago today.  “Dacic has convinced me that his party has garnered a
majority in Parliament,” Nikolic told reporters today in
Belgrade. “Any new government will have the task of improving
standards of living and keeping Serbia on its European Union
path.”  Serbia needs to form a government quickly to ease concern
over its fiscal outlook as the economy teeters on the brink of
recession, according to  Fitch Ratings . It also needs to resume
talks with the  International Monetary Fund  over a $1.3 billion
precautionary loan suspended earlier this year when it became
clear the country would slip on fiscal targets that include
keeping the full-year gap within 4.25 percent of output.  Majority Control  The Socialist Party, which fell from power after
Milosevic’s ouster 12 years ago, placed third in May 6
elections. Nikolic’s Progressive Party and the United Regions of
Serbia will join the new Cabinet, together controlling 131 seats
in the 250-member Parliament.  “Serbia is on the verge of bankruptcy,” the Tanjug news
wire quoted United Regions Party leader  Mladjan Dinkic  as saying
today in Brussels, adding his party expects to lead the finance
and economy ministries.  Dacic will meet the Progressives at 10 a.m. in Belgrade
tomorrow and will hold talks with other parties “in the coming
days” that will focus on a program that aims to “make Serbia
strong, defend the national interests, continue its European
integrations and fight against corruption and organized crime.”  Such a government “represents parties and governing
instincts that default toward yet more ’statist’ solutions,”
Charles Crawford, former U.K. ambassador to Belgrade and a
private consultant and member of the London-based ADRg
Ambassadors LLP, a corporate and government advisory company,
told Bloomberg in e-mailed comments.  “It is difficult to see that working out to Serbia’s
advantage in any policy area: the poorer Serbia gets, the less
credible its aspirations toward the region and European
integration,” he said.  EU Path  Serbia became a candidate for EU membership on March 1
after fulfilling a series of conditions, including the capture
and transfer of  Radovan Karadzic , Ratko Mladic and  Goran Hadzic ,
the three most-wanted war-crimes suspects from the civil wars
that accompanied the breakup of the former Yugoslavia, to the
Hague-based International Criminal Tribunal for the Former
Yugoslavia.  To prove its commitment to further reforms, the Balkan
nation needs to continue to overhaul the judicial system, fight
organized crime and corruption, while the making further
progress in a dialog with its breakaway province of  Kosovo ,
which unilaterally declared independence in 2008.  Respecting the Past  “I will respect our past, work for our future and I will
never allow the return of the 1990s,” Dacic said of a decade
when the Socialists ruled together with Nikolic, who was at the
time deputy leader of the ultra-nationalist Serbian Radical
Party.  The country needs cash to cover the  budget deficit , which
ballooned because of the economic slowdown and campaign-related
spending. Serbia needs to repay about $1.5 billion in maturing
dinar debt by the end of year, with a quarter of that total due
next month.  The fiscal gap reached 7.3 percent in April, public debt
was at 51.1 percent of gross domestic product at the end of
March, exceeding the debt limit of 45 percent, and the current-
account gap of 17 percent of GDP in the same three-month period,
was double the planned 8.5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net 
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  