-- Sharapova, Serena Williams Rebuff Attack on Equal Pay for Women
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-06-28T16:52:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/sharapova-serena-williams-rebuff-attack-on-equal-pay-for-women.html
Former Wimbledon champions  Maria Sharapova  and  Serena Williams  today rejected calls for men's
tennis players to be paid more than women.  The  U.S. Open  was the first major to offer equal prize
money to men and women in 1973, the year 39-time Grand Slam
champion Billie  Jean King  founded the Women’s Tennis
Association. Wimbledon was the last Grand Slam event to follow
suit, in 2007, after a decades-long campaign by King and top
players including five-time champion  Venus Williams .  Women players at Wimbledon this week have been fielding
questions about equal prize money after  Gilles Simon  reignited
the debate. The No. 13 seed told French media that men’s tennis
is “more attractive” to watch and that men play more sets and
therefore should be paid more. He was elected last weekend to a
two-year term on the player council of the men’s tour.  “No matter what anyone says, or the criticisms that we
get, despite everything else I’m sure there are a few more
people that watch my matches than his,” French Open champion
and Wimbledon top seed Sharapova told reporters. She was
speaking after she beat Tsvetana Pironkova of  Bulgaria  in three
sets on Court 1, the second show court at the All England Club.  Simon, who’s never got past the quarterfinals of a major,
earlier today lost his second-round match to  Belgium ’s Xavier Malisse in straight sets on Court 3. In his press conference
afterwards, the Frenchman stood by his comments.  “My point was that I have the feeling that men’s tennis is
actually more interesting than women’s tennis,” Simon said.  ‘Way Hotter’  Serena Williams doesn’t agree.  “Definitely a lot more people are watching Maria than
Simon,” she said after beating Hungarian qualifier Melinda Czink on Centre Court in straight sets.  “She’s way hotter than
he is. Women’s tennis I think is really awesome. It’s a great
fight. We fought for years with  Billie Jean King , and Venus as
well, really set the pattern on what we should do.”  Since winning Wimbledon in 2004 at age 17, Russia’s
Sharapova has become the world’s highest-paid female athlete,
with annual earnings of around $26 million according to Forbes
magazine.  Men play best-of-five sets in the four Grand Slam
tournaments, while women play best-of-three. Williams dismissed
Simon’s claim that therefore women should be paid less.  ‘Progressive Society’  “I started playing tennis at two years old,” Williams, a
13-time major singles champion, said. “I’m sure he started when
he was two years old, as well. I worked just as hard as he did.
I’m sure he continues to work hard as I work hard, as well as
everyone that’s on a professional level. We are all very
professional and all work hard.”  “Tennis, including the Grand Slams, is aligned with our
modern, progressive society when it comes to the principle of
equality,”  Stacey Allaster , chief executive officer and
chairman of the women’s WTA tour, said in an e-mailed statement.
“I can’t believe in this day and age that anyone can still
think otherwise. This type of thinking is exactly why the WTA
was founded and we will always fight for what’s right.”  In an interview in 2010, King said she regretted not having
been able to set up a joint tour for men and women. Several
attempts to join the two were turned down by the men’s tour, she
said. Although the WTA Tour and ATP World Tour held 20 combined
events in 2011, they remain separate entities to this day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon through the London sports desk at
   drossingh@bloomberg.net  