-- Murray, Top-Seeded Sharapova Advance to Third Round at Wimbledon
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-06-28T19:08:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/sharapova-serena-williams-advance-to-third-round-at-wimbledon.html
Maria Sharapova  overcame a scare to
advance to the third round of the Wimbledon tennis tournament
while another former champion,  Serena Williams , also won.
Fourth-seeded  Andy Murray  got past Croatia’s  Ivo Karlovic .  No. 1 seed Sharapova beat Bulgaria’s  Tsvetana Pironkova ,
ranked 38th by the women’s tennis tour, 7-6 (7-3), 6-7 (3-7), 6-
0. Williams fired 10 aces in her victory over Hungarian
qualifier Melinda Czink.  “I started with no motor whatsoever,” Sharapova told
reporters. “I was just on pause. There were just a lot of
things I felt I could have done better.”  Sharapova’s match was suspended for bad light last evening.
Resuming today a set and 3-1 up, the  French Open  champion
started slowly as her opponent leveled at 3-3 before games went
with serve to 6-6 and another tiebreak.  The Russian started the tiebreak with a double-fault, then
fell 4-1 behind after two more double-faults, before Pironkova
extended the lead to 6-1. Sharapova pulled back to 6-3, but
Pironkova wrapped up the set as her opponent hit a groundstroke
too long.  Pironkova lost serve immediately in the third set and
Sharapova, Wimbledon champion in 2004, seized control of the
match, not losing another game.  “She came out firing and I couldn’t get much rhythm,”
Sharapova said. “Luckily I got it together in the third set. I
was a little tentative. I tried not to focus on her game and
concentrate more on mine.”  Karlovic Complains  In the men’s draw, Murray defeated Karlovic 7-5, 6-7 (5-7),
6-2, 7-6 (7-4). The Croat had 17 aces to 11 for 25-year-old
Murray, who has reached the semifinals in the last three
Wimbledons. Karlovic, 33, had 42 unforced errors to 8 for the
British right-hander.  Karlovic was unhappy at the number of faults called against
him.  “Foot faults,” Karlovic told reporters, when asked what
had made the difference in the match. “I don’t know what to
say, but it was a little bit outrageous. In my whole life, ever
since I was eight years old, whole life I didn’t do this many
foot faults. It was like 11.”  Murray is trying to become the first British man since  Fred
Perry  in 1936 to win the title at the All England Club. He’s
hunting for his first Grand Slam title after losing in finals of
the  U.S. Open  and the Australian Open.  Roddick Advances  Also today,  Andy Roddick , a three-time finalist at the All
England Club, defeated Germany’s Bjorn Phau 6-3, 7-6 (7-1), 6-3
in the second round. American Mardy Fish, the 10th seed, beat
Britain’s James Ward in five sets, while  Sam Querrey  plays
Canada’s Milos Raonic.  Rafael Nadal , the second seed from Spain,
is playing Lukas Rosol of the Czech Republic.  There were also wins for Jo-Wilfried Tsonga of France and
Argentina’s Juan Martin del Potro, the fifth and ninth seeds,
respectively.  Williams, a four-time champion, beat the 98th-ranked Czink
6-1, 6-4 on Centre Court. Williams raced through the first set
in 20 minutes as she won 100 percent of the points on her first
serve and struck seven aces.  The second set was less one-sided, as Czink got more serves
in and hit more winners. Williams broke serve in the ninth game.
Serving for the match, she moved to the next round with a
forehand, her 22nd winner.  Williams was last month ousted from the opening round of the
French Open, her first loss at that stage of a Grand Slam event
in her career. The 30-year-old hasn’t won a major title since
Wimbledon in 2010.  Errani Victory  Germany’s Angelique Kerber, the eighth seed, beat Ekaterina Makarova of Russia, while French Open finalist Sara Errani of
Italy, the 10th seed, defeated Britain’s Anne Keothavong.
Christina McHale of the U.S. got past France’s Mathilde
Johansson.  Former top-ranked Ana Ivanovic of Serbia beat Kateryna
Bondarenko of Ukraine and 2010 French Open winner  Francesca
Schiavone  of Italy defeated Kristyna Pliskova of the Czech
Republic. No. 2 seed Victoria Azarenka of Belarus beat Romina
Oprandi of Switzerland in straight sets.  Alejandro Falla of Colombia beat France’s Nicolas Mahut in
five sets. Seventh-seeded  David Ferrer  of Spain defeated Kenny
De Schepper of France, and American  Brian Baker  swept past
Finland’s Jarkko Nieminen. Belgium’s Xavier Malisse upset
France’s  Gilles Simon , the 13th seed, and 16th-seeded Marin
Cilic overcame Poland’s Lukasz Kubot.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  