-- Shire Seen Luring Pfizer to Teva With Lowest Valuation: Real M&A
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   A l e x   B a r i n k a
-- 2012-06-28T19:37:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/shire-seen-luring-pfizer-to-teva-with-lowest-valuation-real-m-a.html
Drugmakers looking for lucrative
treatments for ailments from attention-deficit disorder to
diabetic foot ulcers can now snap up  Shire Plc (SHP)  at its cheapest
valuation relative to earnings in almost six years.  Shire, which has slumped after a generic version of its
Adderall XR drug was approved sooner than analysts projected,
was valued at 16.8 times profit this week, the  lowest  since
October 2006, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The $15.9
billion company now trades for about 30 percent less than the
median for comparable specialty drugmakers, the data show.  While the generic’s approval added to setbacks that have
led analysts to cut earnings estimates for Shire, the Dublin-
based company’s  net income  and revenue are still projected to
climb to records every year through at least 2015, which Chase
Investment Counsel Corp. said could entice buyers. With Shire
now throwing off three times more cash relative to its stock
price than rivals and sales of its best seller Vyvanse forecast
to double by 2015, the drugmaker may attract  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  or  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , according to Lutetia Capital.
 Novartis AG (NOVN)  could also be interested, Barclays Plc said.  “There aren’t many targets like Shire out there,” Jean- Francois Comte, co-founder of Lutetia, a Paris-based hedge fund
that bets on mergers and acquisitions, said in a telephone
interview. For a large  drug company , “Shire would clearly be of
the size to make an impact. You’re clearly buying this company’s
potential to transform research and development into revenues
and margins, and its exceptional  cash flow .”  Specialty Drugs  Jessica Mann, a spokeswoman for Shire, declined to say
whether the company has been approached by potential acquirers
or would welcome an offer.  Shire develops medicines prescribed by specialists,
treatments for rare genetic diseases and therapies for repairing
tissue and skin. Its  sales  have grown at least 15 percent a year
in four of the past five years, with more than 30 percent of its
2011 revenue of $4.2 billion coming from the attention-deficit
hyperactivity disorder drug Adderall XR and its successor
Vyvanse, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company was named as a potential takeover target this
year by Nomura Holdings Inc., Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Exane BNP Paribas, even as the
stock rose to an all-time high of 2,300 pence ($35.85) in
February. Chief Executive Officer Angus Russell said in April
that Shire has “no special defenses” against an unsolicited
bid except its share price.  Stock Decline  Shire’s shares have fallen 21 percent from their February
highs amid setbacks to three of the company’s top five-selling
drugs. The drugmaker in March withdrew its application for U.S.
approval of Replagal, while its Lialda treatment for ulcerative
colitis failed a trial that would have expanded its use. This
week, Shire sank the most in more than nine years after the U.S.
 Food and Drug Administration  approved a copycat version of
Adderall XR two years before analysts expected it.  The  11 percent drop  on June 25 left its shares trading at
 16.8 times  earnings, the lowest level since October 2006,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. At yesterday’s close of
1,812 pence, Shire was valued at almost  17.5 times profit , a 29
percent discount to the median for specialty pharmaceutical
companies with a market capitalization exceeding $1 billion.  Today, Shire fell 1.3 percent to 1,789 pence.  Shire’s lower valuation now “may make it seem attractive
to one of the larger pharmaceutical companies” even after the
FDA’s approval of the Adderall XR generic, Peter Tuz, who helps
manage $700 million as president of Chase Investment Counsel in
Charlottesville,  Virginia , said in a phone interview. “It’s
still a good franchise. It’s a good company and these things
happen to everybody.”  Cash Flow  The drugmaker also has a  free-cash-flow  yield of 6.4
percent, compared with a median of 1.9 percent for global
specialty drugmakers, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Analysts, after cutting their growth estimates for Shire,
still project Shire’s net income will rise 14 percent or more
each year through 2014 to a record $1.4 billion, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. They estimate sales will climb to
highs as well, rising 31 percent to $5.5 billion by 2014 from
$4.2 billion last year, the data show.  Henrietta Theorell, who manages about 4 billion Swedish
kroner ($570 million) at SEB Asset Management in  Stockholm , said
the FDA’s approval of an Adderall XR generic may actually
increase the company’s allure to a potential acquirer by
removing an unknown.  Adderall ‘Clarity’  “Shire has been cited as a takeover target for many years,
but the Adderall patent situation was always cited as a
problem,” Theorell said in a phone interview. “With improved
clarity and the ensuing price decline, it is a more likely
takeover candidate. It has a growing portfolio, ADHD is growing
very nicely and it also has its orphan drug portfolio. That’s an
area people want to get into.”  Shire is seeking to expand the use of its best seller
Vyvanse, which has patent protection through 2023, for major
depressive disorder, schizophrenia and binge eating.  In addition to its ADHD drugs, it generated 30 percent of
revenue from treatments for rare genetic diseases, such as
Elaprase for Hunter syndrome. The company paid $750 million last
year for Advanced Biohealing Inc., gaining the skin substitute
Dermagraft, used to treat diabetic foot ulcers, and has an
implantable spinal pump in development that would deliver its
rare-disease drugs to the brain.  Teva, Pfizer  Teva, the generic drugmaker that already markets a Shire-
authorized copy of Adderall XR and last year bought Cephalon
Inc. for more than $6 billion, may be a potential acquirer,
Lutetia’s Comte said. Pfizer, which lost patent protection on
its cholesterol pill Lipitor in November, could also be
interested in Shire as it seeks new drugs for growth, he said.  “Pfizer would clearly benefit from a growth engine that
would be a significant size,” Comte said. “They have the
ability to do the deal, they probably need the growth and they
haven’t done anything in M&A for a while.”  Yossi Koren, a spokesman for Petach Tikva, Israel-based
Teva, said the company doesn’t comment on rumors and
speculation, as did Joan Campion, a spokeswoman for  New York- 
based Pfizer, the world’s biggest drugmaker.  Novartis may seek a takeover of Shire to obtain new sources
of revenue as the Swiss drugmaker faces the loss of patent
protection on its two best-selling drugs, Diovan and Gleevec,
said  Michael Leuchten , an analyst at Barclays in  London .  Patent Cliff  Diovan, a blood-pressure medication, will go off-patent in
the U.S. this year, while the cancer treatment Gleevec’s patent
is set to expire in 2015, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “If you’re Novartis and you’re looking to make it through
the first patent cliff with Diovan, and as you come out of that
you’re going into another one, which is Gleevec, you need to
find a way to soften that blow,” Leuchten said. “One way to do
it is to buy something that’s not necessarily related to your
existing business, but it’s big enough to soften that second
blow. It’s a financial plug.”  Eric Althoff , a spokesman for Novartis, said the company
doesn’t comment and on rumors and speculation when asked whether
the Basel, Switzerland-based company was interested in Shire.  Any potential deal for Shire would be among the largest in
the industry’s history. With Shire valued at $16 billion
including net debt, a purchase of the company would rank among
the top 15 drug company takeovers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Killing Vyvanse  While Shire is marketing Vyvanse as a replacement for
Adderall XR, it may not live up to expectations as users switch
to the cheaper generic version of the older drug, according to
Peter McDougall, CEO of London-based investment research firm
Druganalyst Ltd., who has followed the  drug industry  for 27
years. Half of the company’s revenue growth over the next five
years is forecast to be generated by Vyvanse, McDougall wrote in
a June 26 note.  “Cheap Adderall will kill Vyvanse growth,” he said in the
note. The news “sent Shire stock into a spiral dive. It has
been a long time coming.”  Even as Shire begins to face generic competition, the
slumping stock price, long patent life of Vyvanse and its
“solid” rare-genetic disease business still make it an
attractive acquisition candidate, said Adrian Howd, an analyst
at Berenberg Bank in London.  “Does the attractiveness of Shire as an M&A target change
considerably on the basis of the news? No,” he said in a phone
interview. “Does the share price of Shire change significantly
on the basis of the news? Yes. So if you look at it that way,
there’s your answer.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Barinka in  New York  at 
 abarinka1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 