-- Shorter, Esperanza Spalding Lead Montreal Jazz Festival
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2012-06-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/shorter-esperanza-spalding-lead-montreal-jazz-festival.html
Harmonica player  Gregoire Maret 
impressed Andre Menard, co-creator of the  Montreal International
Jazz Festival , with the solos he took as a sideman.  “I saw Gregoire play with Pat Metheny’s group at the
festival back in 2005,” said Menard, co-founder of the
Montreal-based events producer  L’Equipe Spectra Inc ., by phone.  This year Maret will be one of the headliners with his
quartet at  Montreal ’s  L’Astral  on Saturday night, a beneficiary
of the festival’s role as a platform for both rising and
established stars.  The 10-day event, which opens today, is one of the largest
of its kind in the world, attracting more than 2.5 million
spectators with more than 600 indoor and outdoor concerts.  This year’s headliners include singer-songwriter  James Taylor , saxophonist Wayne Shorter, Brazilian pianist Eliane
Elias, and two standout bassist-vocalists Esperanza Spalding and
Me’shell Ndegeocello.  Maret said he hopes to build a following for an instrument
more associated with folk music than with jazz.  “The harmonica has some quality that makes it closer to
the human voice than any other instrument,” said the New York-
based Maret by phone. “The emotion and range is something you
can explore on the harmonica.”  Maret, who released a self-titled CD in March, will perform
in Montreal with pianist Federico Gonzalez Pena, bassist  Matt
Brewer  and drummer Clarence Penn.  Three Basses  One of his past musical partners, Marcus Miller, will also
be at the festival. The Grammy Award-winning bassist and
producer ( Miles Davis , Luther Vandross) will join Stanley Clarke
and Victor Wooten as the all-star bass trio  S-M-V .  “One guy takes the extreme lower range of the notes, one
guy takes the top as a guitar would, and the other takes the
middle range,” Miller said by phone. “This project shows
exactly how far the electric bass has come. The electric bass
can be the basis of a trio.”  Menard said he and festival co-founder Alain Simard look
for talent worldwide, resulting in such finds as the Free
Flamenco Trio, made up of pianist  David Pena Dorantes  of  Spain ,
French-Catalonian bass player Renaud Garcia-Fons and Bulgarian
flautist  Theodosii Spassov ; Grammy Award-nominated, California-
raised soul-jazz singer  Gregory Porter ; and alto-sax player
 Pierrick Pedron  from Brittany.  “I saw Pierrick play in a festival in France three years
ago, and I said then that this guy has to play in America,”
Menard said. “When I look at Gregory Porter, I ask who was the
last, great young male jazz vocalist we’ve seen? Most of them
are women. Gregory brings something new to the table.”  (Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars.  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in  New York  at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 