-- Singh Seeks to Restart Growth as Rupee Falls: Economy
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n ,   R i n a   C h a n d r a n   a n d   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2012-06-28T04:33:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/singh-seeks-to-restart-growth-as-rupee-falls-economy.html
Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh 
pledged to restore confidence in  Asia ’s third-largest economy as
he resumed control of the finance ministry after  growth  slowed
to the weakest in almost a decade and the rupee slumped.  Singh, 79, urged senior ministry officials to act quickly
to revive investor sentiment as he assumed the role vacated this
week by  Pranab Mukherjee , who resigned to run for president.
 India  needs to address “problems on the tax front,” as well as
in the mutual funds and insurance industries, he said at a
meeting in  New Delhi  yesterday.  “At the current juncture, we are passing through
challenging times economically,” Singh said in the meeting,
according to a  statement  on the government’s website. “We need
to work to get the economy going again and restart the India
growth story.”  Singh will need to call on his experience in turning around
the economy as finance chief in the 1990s, when India was on the
brink of defaulting on some of its overseas debt. He now faces a
 budget deficit  requiring record borrowing, a paralysis in policy
making that has hurt efforts to spur investment and a faltering
global recovery, which have pushed the rupee to an unprecedented
low and put the country’s investment-grade rating at risk.  “Don’t expect a big change yet,” said  Ramya Suryanarayanan ,
a Singapore-based economist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. “If until
now there were bottlenecks and policy logjams it’s not going to
miraculously disappear.”  Rupee Slumps  The nation’s currency, which touched a record low of
57.3275 per dollar on June 22, declined 0.2 percent to 57.135
yesterday. It is down 21 percent in the past year, the worst
slide among major Asian currencies. The tumble has stoked
 inflation  by making imports costlier.  Indian stock futures gained today on speculation Singh will
take steps to bolster investor confidence and as better-than-
estimated U.S. data eased concerns over global economic growth
and lifted Asian equities. SGX S&P CNX Nifty Index futures for
June delivery, which expire today, rose 0.3 percent to 5,153 at
10:53 a.m. in  Singapore .  Elsewhere in Asia,  Japan  reported retail sales rose more
than economists forecast in May, a sign that  consumer spending 
will help sustain a rebound in the world’s third-largest economy.
 Australia ’s new home sales rose 0.7 percent in May from April,
the Housing Industry Association said.  German Jobs  Germany  will release June jobless data and economists
predict unemployment rose by 3,000 this month, a Bloomberg
survey showed. The U.K. will release first-quarter gross
domestic product figures, which are forecast to show the economy
contracted 0.3 percent, unchanged from May’s estimates. The
European Commission will also publish updated estimates on euro-
area  consumer confidence  for June.  U.S. jobless claims for the week ended June 23, and the
latest estimates for first-quarter GDP are also due.  In other comments on his Twitter Inc. account yesterday,
Singh said India needs to “reverse the climate of pessimism,”
adding that the immediate emphasis of the government is to
manage the balance of payments and boost institutional flows
into India.  The government’s recent setbacks include the suspension in
December of plans to allow foreign companies such as Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. to open supermarkets after an ally of the ruling
coalition objected. India has also foregone investment in the
pension and insurance industries in recent months.  Record Borrowing  The government, which subsidizes items from diesel to
fertilizers, projects record borrowing of 5.69 trillion rupees
($100 billion) in the year through March 2013. It aims to narrow
the budget gap to 5.1 percent of GDP this fiscal year, from 5.76
percent in 2011-2012.  “Talk is cheap, but what he’s able to do will really
matter,” said  Rajeev Malik , a senior economist at CLSA Asia-
Pacific Markets in Singapore. “The litmus test is going to be
the potential fuel-price hikes. Also, what they do with FDI-
related policies, especially retail. And making sure that
project implementation is picking up in infrastructure, and
creating a more enabling environment for business.”  Swedish furniture retailer IKEA last week eased some of the
gloom, saying it wants to open stores in India and may invest as
much as 1.5 billion euros ($1.9 billion). Coca-Cola Co. said
this week the company and its local partners plan to spend $5
billion in the country by 2020.  Still, Singh needs political support to succeed this time
around, said Malik at CLSA.  Fiscal Slippage  “Sure, it gives him an opportunity to do at least a few
things, but political support has to be there,” Malik said.
“Fiscal slippage has been a key problem area and the cause of
multiple macro imbalances. However, not all of these corrective
things are in his control.”  Mukherjee, the ruling Congress party’s nominee for the
presidential poll in July, quit to take part in the election.
Singh will head the  finance ministry  until Mukherjee’s successor
is appointed, according to Pankaj Pachauri, communications
adviser to the prime minister’s office.  The prime minister’s decision to refrain from appointing a
successor immediately implies he “wants to keep the portfolio
with himself for some time to push stalled reforms and lift the
slowing economy in order to boost confidence” said Satish Misra,
an analyst at the New Delhi-based Observer Research Foundation.  Singh headed the finance ministry for five years from 1991.
In his first two months in the job, he devalued the rupee,
tackled government monopolies, cut import tariffs and tax rates,
and let foreign companies take majority stakes in sectors
including automobiles and pharmaceuticals.  Outlook Cut  Liberalization spurred faster growth, including an 8.4
percent expansion in the 12 months ended March 2011, before a
gridlock in policy making contributed to a  slowdown  to 5.3
percent last quarter from a year earlier, a nine-year low.  Inflation accelerated to 7.55 percent in May, and the
central bank signaled this month that price pressures are
crimping scope to cut  interest rates .  Fitch Ratings  and  Standard & Poor’s  have said they may
strip Asia’s third-largest economy of its investment-grade
rating. The nation has struggled to pare spending on subsidies.  Mukherjee’s resignation may lead to a cabinet reshuffle as
Singh tries to revitalize his development agenda to cut poverty.  Home Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram, Commerce Minister
 Anand Sharma , Deputy Chairman of the Planning Commission  Montek Singh Ahluwalia , Chairman of the Prime Minister’s Economic
Advisory Council Chakravarthy Rangarajan and Rural Development
Minister Jairam Ramesh are all probable candidates to replace
Mukherjee, Business Standard newspaper reported June 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net ;
Rina Chandran at   rchandran12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  