-- Tsingtao Jin Quits Two Weeks After Investor Share Sale
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-29T11:40:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/tsingtao-chairman-jin-quits-beermaker-citing-health-reasons.html
Tsingtao Brewery Co. (600600) ,  China ’s
second-largest brewer by market share, reported the resignation
of its chairman less than two weeks after an investor sold a
block of shares 7 percent below market price.  Chairman Jin Zhiguo resigned for health reasons and had no
contact with the investor before the share sale, Tsingtao said
in two separate stock exchange filings yesterday. Jin will be
replaced by President Sun Mingbo, the company said.  Tsingtao, based in the coastal city of Qingdao in Shandong
province, in March pledged to boost growth by expanding
capacity, developing new products and seeking acquisitions. The
stock has dropped in Hong Kong this month as one of the
company’s investors, billionaire Chen Fashu, agreed to sell
shares in the company at a discount.  Tsingtao plunged 7.8 percent, the most in two years, on
June 19 as Chen offered 32 million shares at HK$47 apiece, 7
percent less than the previous closing price of HK$50.55,
according to a copy of a term sheet obtained by Bloomberg.
Tsingtao yesterday said the company “did not have prior
knowledge” of the sale and that Jin has confirmed he had no
contact with Chen before the stake reduction.  The stock dropped 1.3 percent to close at HK$44.05 in  Hong
Kong  trading. The shares, suspended in Hong Kong since June 27,
resumed trading today. The board has agreed to give Jin the
title of “honorary chairman,” the company said.  “Given the long tenure Mr. Jin had with the company, and
the crucial role he played in crafting out its strategy and
development, his step down will likely weigh negatively on
sentiment, at least in the short term,” Bank of America Merrill
Lynch analyst Tina Long wrote in a note to clients.  Profit Increase  Tsingtao, founded by German settlers more than a century
ago in Qingdao, reported a 14 percent increase in 2011 profit on
demand for alcoholic drinks in the world’s most populous nation.  Jin has held roles at Tsingtao including general manager
and president, according to the company’s annual report. He
became president in 2001 and chairman in 2008. Jin is a member
of China’s National People’s Congress, the report said. He quit
because he needs “systematic treatment for personal health
reasons,” the company said.  China’s brewers are battling rising competition and higher
expenses. Tsingtao in March said it faces challenges this year
that include a “weak global economy, slowing domestic
consumption growth, and rising human-resources costs.” Profit
margin at its core businesses narrowed to 33.4 percent from 35.2
percent a year earlier as raw material costs increased, the
company said in March.  China Resources Enterprise Ltd. (291) , which makes Snow beer
through its joint venture with  SABMiller Plc (SAB) , had a 22 percent
share of the China beer market in 2011, according to data from
Euromonitor International. Tsingtao was second with a 14 percent
share.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  