-- Slovenia Not Considering Assistance for Banks, Minister Says
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-06-28T12:03:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/slovenia-not-considering-assistance-for-banks-minister-says-1-.html
Slovenia isn’t considering a banking
bailout “at the moment” after the country’s biggest bank, Nova
Ljubljanska Banka d.d., received a capital increase, Finance
Minister Janez Sustersic said.  “We haven’t thought about specific amounts for possible
aid because we are not considering asking for assistance at the
moment,” Sustersic told reporters in Ljubljana today. “Aid is
one of the options to partially cover bad liabilities at the
banks, but first we have to see how much of those liabilities
are there.”  NLB will get a 381 million-euro ($474 million) capital
boost after the two largest owners, the government and  KBC Groep
NV (KBC) , agreed to increase the capital at the Ljubljana-based lender
by buying contingent-convertible bonds and shares. Prime
Minister  Janez Jansa  said yesterday Slovenia may need to seek a
bailout in July if it fails to adopt legislation to limit public
spending.  Slovenia’s banking industry has been weakened by the
faltering  economy , which is teetering on the brink of its second
recession in three years, pushing more and more companies into
bankruptcy. Lenders in the former Yugoslav nation that adopted
the euro in 2007 are relying on loans from the  European Central
Bank  for liquidity because of limited access to wholesale
funding.  Possible Aid  Sustersic said that possible assistance for Slovenian banks
will be considered after assessing the amount of bad loans they
hold as well as the broader economic environment.  The export-driven economy will probably shrink in the
second quarter as confidence drops and austerity measures cut
demand, the Slovenian central bank said June 14.  Gross domestic product rose 0.2 percent in the first
quarter from the previous three months as household and
government consumption offset slowing exports and a decline in
Investment. GDP shrank 0.2 percent in the period, compared with
a year earlier.  KBC will increase its holding in Nova Ljubljanska to 34
percent from 25 percent after the capital increase, Sustersic
said. The government will hold a 52.6 percent stake after the
transaction. Both owners want a third partner in the Slovenian
financial institution, according to Sustersic.  “We are talking to banks in  Europe , the U.S. and  Asia  as
potential partners for NLB,” Sustersic said today without
naming any specific companies.  -- Editors: James M. Gomez, Alan Crosby  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at  