-- Sprinting, Not Jogging, Sheds More Harmful Belly Fat, Study Says
-- B y   J a s o n   G a l e
-- 2012-06-28T03:29:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/sprinting-not-jogging-sheds-more-harmful-belly-fat-study-says.html
Sprinting, not jogging, helps men
lose harmful belly fat faster, scientists in Sydney found.  Eight-second bursts of sprinting on an exercise bike 
repeated intermittently for 20 minutes helped overweight men 
lose 2 kilograms (4 pounds) of body fat over 12 weeks, 
researchers at the University of New South Wales said today. 
Importantly, there was a 17 percent reduction in fat stored 
around their liver, kidneys and other internal organs that is
associated with an increased risk for cardiovascular disease.  The findings, published in the  Journal of Obesity , add to
evidence that high-intensity exertion may result in greater fat
loss than less vigorous forms of exercise such as jogging. The
research also indicates bouts of sprinting over 20 minutes three
times a week may be enough to spur a significant reduction in
fat, including around the trunk, in overweight young males.  “Sprinting is a very efficient form of exercise and it’s
fun,” said Steve Boutcher, an associate professor in the
university’s school of medical sciences, who led the study.
“Other studies using aerobic exercise, such as continuous
jogging, have found that the amount of exercise needed to
produce a similar decrease in visceral fat was about 7 hours per
week for 14 weeks.”  Two-thirds of U.S. adults are overweight and one-third are
obese, according to the Atlanta-based Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention. The obesity rate may rise to 42 percent
of the  U.S. population  by 2030, the CDC said in a May 7 report.  Adding Muscle  The Sydney researchers randomly allocated 46 inactive men
in their 20s into either an exercise or control group. Those
selected to exercise were required to sprint for 8 seconds on a
stationary bike followed by a 12-second recovery phase in a
training cycle lasting 20 minutes and repeated three times a
week over 12 weeks.  Weight and waist circumference increased in the control
group. While those in the exercise group lost weight, they put
on 1.2 kilograms of muscle in their legs and trunk, according to
the study, which was supported by Diabetes  Australia .  “Participation in regular aerobic exercise typically
results in little or no gain in muscle mass, whereas moderately
hard resistance exercise over months may increase muscle mass,”
Boutcher said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Gale in  Melbourne  at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at   j.gale@bloomberg.net . 