-- Statement by the IMF Mission to Sweden (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2012-06-28T13:31:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/statement-by-the-imf-mission-to-sweden-text-.html
Following is the text of the mission
statement from the  International Monetary Fund  visit to Sweden:  On June 18, 2012, the Executive Board of the International Monetary
Fund (IMF) concluded the Article IV consultation with Sweden.  Background
Sweden’s recovery from the global crisis was swift reflecting its
strong position at the onset of the crisis, a supportive macro policy
response, a flexible exchange rate, and robust demand for its exports
from  Germany ,  Asia , especially  China , and other  emerging markets  as well.
As global demand recovered, Sweden grew just under 6 percent in 2010 and
4 percent in 2011. And reflecting the small negative output gap (estimated
by staff at around ¾ percent for 2011), headline  Consumer Price Index 
(CPI) has remained above the 2 percent target.  But, as elsewhere in the region and Advanced  Europe , momentum has weakened.
After growing by a cumulative 2.1 in the first three quarters of 2011,
Sweden’s GDP declined by 0.1 percentage points on average in the subsequent
two quarters (comprising a contraction of 1.0 percent in Q4, and an expansion
of 0.8 percent in Q1 2012).  And though the level of private consumption has not fallen, its growth
remains lackluster despite resilient employment and incomes into the early
part of 2012--in part reflecting that unemployment remains elevated relative
to the immediate pre-crisis period. Excluding 2008-09, household confidence
is at its lowest since 1996, while household credit growth has slowed by
over 3 percentage points from a year earlier to 5½ percent. Declining wealth
and a low confidence have led to further increases in household saving rates.
At the same time, while both temporary and permanent employment increased in
2010, with permanent jobs numbers now significantly surpassing pre-crisis
levels,  job creation  seems to have slowed.  Macroeconomic policies have been set to support growth. While the temporary
fiscal stimulus measures adopted during the global financial crisis were
phased out, including support to municipalities and county councils and
investments in infrastructure and training, the underlying fiscal stance
remained supportive--notably reflecting the tax reduction for pensioners
in 2011--with staff calculations suggesting that the 2011 outcome fell
short of the 1 percent structural surplus target by 0.8 percentage points.
On the monetary policy side, faced with a benign inflation outlook and an
appreciating krona, the Riksbank lowered the policy rate by 25 basis points
both in December 2011 and February 2012, reflecting the deteriorating
external environment.  The economic outlook remains clouded, and the risks to growth are tilted
to the downside. On staff projections, real GDP growth is expected to drop
from 4 percent in 2011 to 1 percent in 2012, then to rebound to 2 percent
in 2013, broadly tracking projections for activity in Advanced Europe and
somewhat more optimistic than the Riksbank’s projection and consensus (both
around ½ percentage point less, but based on information prior to the
release of the Q1 2012 National Accounts). Key downside risks are a possible
sharp resurgence of strains in the euro area; or/and a “lost decade” of
growth there; and in either context, possible further oil supply shocks.
In this context, international funding markets could also exhibit
significant strains.  Executive Board Assessment
Executive Directors commended  Sweden ’s sustained strong macroeconomic
performance, which has been underpinned by prudent policies and effective
institutions. Nonetheless, Directors noted that significant downside risks
weigh on the near-term outlook, and lingering vulnerabilities call for
adaptive policymaking and further structural and financial reforms.  They welcomed efforts to strengthen the macroprudential framework and
financial sector oversight through tighter capital and liquidity
requirements, and encouraged the authorities to further their cross
border collaboration with regional banking regulators. More broadly,
Directors underscored the importance of strengthening “Pillar 2” of the
Basel supervisory framework, as well as bank resolution and crisis
management arrangements. An accountable macroprudential authority with a
clear stability mandate and decision making structure would also buttress
macrofinancial stability.  They supported the planned modest relaxation of the fiscal stance this year
in the context of rules targeting a structural fiscal surplus over the
business cycle. They agreed that automatic stabilizers should be allowed
to operate unimpeded as activity slows, but a number of Directors saw also
scope for discretionary counter cyclical stimulus in 2013. Directors
considered that better targeted tax and expenditure measures could make
the planned medium term fiscal adjustment more “growth friendly,” and that
the credibility of fiscal plans could be enhanced by greater authority of
the Fiscal Policy Council.  They considered the monetary stance appropriately accommodative, given the
benign inflation outlook and the slack in the economy. Nonetheless, they
encouraged the authorities to adapt policy flexibly as the conjuncture
evolves. In particular, the monetary stance may need to be adjusted rapidly
if external risks materialize, or macroprudential policies may need to be
tightened further once the housing market reflates. Most Directors agreed
that expanding the communication strategy with the publication of projections
based on market interest rates could further boost the credibility of the
monetary and  exchange rate  frameworks.  They commended Sweden’s track record in implementing structural reforms
to boost growth and employment. They welcomed efforts underway to improve
the functioning of the labor market, in particular measures to increase
the absorption of new entrants. Directors agreed that deregulation of the
rental market could stimulate residential investment, reduce shortages,
and improve employment prospects.  SOURCE: International Monetary Fund 