-- Statement by the IMF Mission to Tonga (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2012-06-28T13:55:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/statement-by-the-imf-mission-to-tonga-text-.html
Following is the text of the mission
statement from the  International Monetary Fund  visit to Tonga:  On May 16, 2012, the Executive Board of the International Monetary
Fund (IMF) concluded the Article IV consultation with Tonga.  Background
Tonga’s economy is recovering gradually from the effects of the global
slowdown and the domestic credit crunch, thanks to the pickup in
construction activity and rebound in tourism. However, private consumption
has been anemic due to the decline in remittance inflows. In addition,
banks’ lending standards have remained tight, constraining private
consumption and investment. Real GDP growth is forecast to be around
1½ percent in FY2011/12, led by stronger tourism activity and a continued
fiscal stimulus funded by donor aid and previously contracted concessional
loans.  CPI inflation declined to 2½ percent year-on-year in February 2012,
reflecting mainly stabilization in fuel and food prices as well as
exchange rate appreciation. Inflation is likely to average around 4½
percent in FY2011/12.
The fiscal position has strengthened but vulnerabilities remain.
Generous grant inflows from donors contributed to narrowing the fiscal
deficit to an estimated 2¾ percent of GDP in 2011/12 (from about 6
percent of GDP in FY2010/11). Capital expenditure is expected to be
lower by 2 percentage points of GDP due to the completion of the
reconstruction of the central business district and near completion of
the road projects using the Export-Import Bank of  China  (China EXIM Bank)
loans. Nevertheless, Tonga remains at a “high risk of external debt
distress” according to this year’s World Bank-IMF debt sustainability
analysis.  Buoyant official development assistance helped improve the balance of
payment position, which allowed the National Reserve Bank of Tonga (NRBT)
to let the currency appreciate by 6 percent against the US$ and real
effective terms in 2011 to help curb inflation pressures stemming from
rising fuel and food import prices. The level of reserves increased to
around $130 million as of end-2011, covering more than 6 months of imports
of goods and services.  Monetary conditions have remained accommodative over the past two years,
but with no signs of a pickup in private credit.  Monetary policy  has been
appropriately geared toward encouraging bank lending. The banking system
is adequately capitalized and profitable but credit costs related to the
rise in non-performing loans (NPLs) following the 2004-08 credit bubble
remain high; and banks have continued to restrain credit amidst an uncertain
outlook.  Executive Board Assessment
Executive Directors welcomed Tonga’s recovery from the global crisis but
noted remaining vulnerabilities and a high debt burden. With downside
risks clouding the outlook, Directors emphasized the importance of
strengthening policy buffers and the foundation for faster and more
inclusive growth.  Directors concurred that fiscal consolidation is needed to rebuild the
government’s cash balances and safeguard debt sustainability.
Accordingly, containing the public sector’s wage bill, prioritizing
expenditures, and broadening the tax base remain top policy priorities
for the period ahead. More broadly, Directors encouraged the authorities
to implement their fiscal plans within a medium-term framework and further
improve the quality of public spending to meet Tonga’s development
objectives.  Directors considered the current accommodative monetary policy stance
appropriate in light of the banks’ cautious approach to lending. Taking
note of the staff’s assessment that the  exchange rate  is broadly in line
with fundamentals, Directors agreed that, going forward, the exchange
rate could absorb the bulk of external shocks with official intervention
limited to smoothing operations.  Directors supported steps underway to reduce credit risk and strengthen
financial intermediation. They welcomed recent legislation to improve the
registration of collateral and recommended further financial sector
reforms such as establishing a centralized credit bureau, facilitating
land leases, and enacting a bankruptcy law. Directors also urged the
authorities to continue to resist pressure to administer bank lending
rates.  Directors underscored the importance of removing structural hurdles to
private investment and reducing the cost of doing business, including
through public enterprise reforms. Steps in this direction would lay the
groundwork for broadening the production base and reducing poverty.  SOURCE: International Monetary Fund 