-- State Regulators in U.S. Examine Structured Note Sales
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2012-06-28T21:49:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/state-regulators-in-u-s-examine-structured-note-sales-correct-.html
A group of U.S. state securities
regulators is seeking information on the sales practices of 10
structured-note issuers after a similar request from the
Securities and Exchange Commission.  The regulators sent letters to the issuers in March and
April, said Ronak Patel, co-head of the group for the  North
American Securities Administrators Association . Patel, who is
also deputy securities commissioner of  Texas , declined to
elaborate since it is the policy of some states not to confirm
or deny ongoing investigations, he said.  The U.S. structured-note industry, which sells bank bonds
bundled with derivatives for customized bets, has come under
scrutiny from regulators for the securities’ complexity and lack
of  transparency . Some notes have higher fees than their
potential returns. Banks have sold $19.8 billion of SEC-
registered securities this year and $45.9 billion in 2011, down
from a record $49.5 billion a year earlier, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The SEC asked banks that issue the securities to boost
disclosures to investors in April, including the banks’ own
estimates for the securities’ market value at the time of sale.
The regulator sought the changes in a  letter  to banks it didn’t
identify that was posted on its website April 13. The agency
also asked the issuers to explain how they set up a secondary
market for the notes, how they use the proceeds raised from
sales and how important the business is to their funding needs.  States Investigations  Some individual states have started investigations.
Florida, Massachusetts and  Georgia  opened examinations of the
products last year. In June 2011, Georgia subpoenaed UBS AG,
Morgan Stanley and Ameriprise Financial Inc. in its probe over
whether the firms broke the state’s securities laws in selling
structured notes called reverse convertibles. The securities are
short-term bonds generally sold to individuals that convert into
stock if a company’s share price plummets.  The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority issued a notice
in  January  to guide firms about the supervision of sales of
“complex products,” citing some structured notes as examples.  Derivatives are contracts whose value is derived from
stocks, bonds, currencies and commodities. 