-- Stockton, California, Retirees Feel Shock of Benefit Rollback
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2012-06-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/stockton-california-retirees-feel-shock-of-benefit-rollback.html
For Gary Jones, a retired Stockton,
 California , police officer, getting his brain scanned every four
to six months is essential to monitor an inoperable tumor with a
12 percent survival rate.  On June 26, Jones, who takes nine pills a day to control
facial seizures, urged the City Council to reject a proposal to
end health-care payments for retirees under a budget the city
will use to operate in bankruptcy. He failed.  “I see it as a death sentence,” Jones, a 52-year-old
resident of nearby Manteca, said yesterday by telephone. “If I
can’t get taken care of and the cancer has come back and the
tumor is growing, I’ll never know until it’s too late.”  Stockton, an agricultural center about 80 miles (130
kilometers) east of San Francisco, is poised to become the
largest city to enter  bankruptcy protection  in U.S. history. The
community isn’t alone in trying to cope with escalating retiree
costs. Most U.S. municipalities offer health-care coverage to
retired workers without setting aside enough money to pay for
it, leaving millions of dollars in unfunded obligations.  “Many municipalities currently find themselves in a
situation of having a shrinking tax base combined with an
exploding expense load, which includes debt payments, pension
payments and basic services,” Lawrence Larose, a partner in  New
York  who leads the municipal restructuring legal practice at
Winston & Strawn LLP, said by telephone. “We will see an
increasing number of cities and counties that will have a
difficult time managing their long-term liabilities while
maintaining current services.”  Pay-Go Basis  Most cities have funded health care on a pay-as-you-go
basis, David Hitchcock, senior director at  Standard & Poor’s  in
New York, said yesterday in a telephone interview.  “Almost no cities or counties are advance-funding the
accrued liability,” he said. “What they’re paying is current
retirees’ medical benefits, but they are not setting aside the
money for future retirees that are accruing benefits now.”  Some California cities, including  San Jose  and  San Diego ,
have tackled their retiree costs through ballot measures.  Voters in San Jose, the Silicon Valley home of  Cisco
Systems Inc. (CSCO)  and EBay Inc., this month approved a measure to let
city employees choose whether to pay more and keep existing
pension plans or accept reduced benefits and a higher  retirement
age . The city faces $2.9 billion in unfunded retiree costs,
including health care. A similar measure passed in San Diego.  Unions Warned  Stockton’s decision to stop paying for retiree health-care
coverage is an important message to union members, San Jose
Mayor Chuck Reed said yesterday by telephone.  “It’s an example of how things will go poorly for the
employees and the retirees because they are the ones who get
hammered when cities run out of money or  retirement plans  run
out,” Reed said. “There is a great deal of risk for them if we
don’t get control over costs.”  Stockton’s council this week agreed to a spending plan that
takes effect July 1 and reduces retiree medical benefits by $7.1
million, and eliminates the cover entirely in fiscal 2014.  Having to make the cut was “devastating,” Councilman Paul
Canepa said yesterday in a telephone interview.  “A lot of people think that we’re heartless,” Canepa
said. “It’s really hard to promise something that wasn’t funded
correctly.”  $417 Million  Stockton has a $417 million unfunded liability for retiree
health care, City Manager Bob Deis said June 5 in a memo to the
council. There are almost 1,100 benefit recipients, he said.  Deis told the council this week that the care costs the
city as much as $1 million for each employee.  “So $600,000 to $1 million we’ve committed to for each
employee, and we’ve set aside nothing, zero,” Deis said. “This
liability has grown and grown and grown.”  Stockton’s approach punishes people with little power to
fight back, said Frank Mauro, executive director of the
nonpartisan Fiscal Policy Institute, a nonprofit research
organization based in Latham, New York.  “They’re hurting very vulnerable citizens,” Mauro said
yesterday by telephone. “What can a retiree who’s been retired
for 10 to 15 years already and is living on a fixed income do?”  The Governmental Accounting Standards Board, the Norwalk,
Connecticut-based organization that sets rules for state and
local governments, this week approved changes to curb the use of
overly optimistic assumptions by public officials who oversee
underfunded pensions to diminish the scale of the liabilities in
future decades.  Wide Impact  “The implications of bankruptcy impact the lives of every
citizen, including public employees who are counting on
retirement security for the service they have provided,”  Brad Pacheco , a spokesman for the $226.1 billion  California Public
Employees’ Retirement System , the largest U.S. pension, said
yesterday by e-mail.  “Calpers is committed to work with affected parties to
address pension obligations within our fiduciary responsibility
and the laws we must follow,” Pacheco said.  Mark Baldassare , president of the  Public Policy Institute
of California , said city leaders had believed that real-estate
values would continue to climb, tax receipts would rise and
retirement funds would show year-to-year gains.  “It’s been proven over the last few years that those
things are not a given,” Baldassare, whose nonpartisan
research institute is based in San Francisco, said by telephone.
“It raises questions about what kind of retirement packages
city governments can provide their employees. Stockton is a
dramatic case of this, but many cities are struggling with it.”  Canepa, the Stockton councilman, said people didn’t pay
attention to these details when times were good.  “Where do we go and how do we make it better for the long-
term survival of the city is important to me,” Canepa said.
“But it’s not without pain.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman in New York at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 