-- Sugar Falls From Eight-Week High on Economy; Coffee, Cocoa Drop
-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2012-06-28T19:03:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/sugar-falls-from-eight-week-high-on-economy-coffee-cocoa-drop.html
Sugar futures fell from an eight-
week high on concern that commodity demand will ebb as the
global economy falters. Coffee and cocoa also dropped.  Germany ’s unemployment in June rose for the fourth month
this year, and borrowing costs in Spain and  Italy  approached the
highest in the euro era amid the region’s debt crisis. Sugar
climbed in the previous three days after output in the first
half of June slumped in  Brazil , the world’s biggest producer, as
rain hindered the harvest.  The economic woes “certainly helped pressure prices,”
Christopher Narayanan, the head of agricultural commodity
research at  Societe Generale  in New York, said in an e-mail.  Raw sugar for October delivery dropped 2 percent to settle
at 20.53 cents a pound at 2 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in New
York. Earlier, the price reached 21.39 cents, the highest for a
most-active contract since April 30.  The sweetener has tumbled 14 percent since the end of
March, heading for the biggest quarterly slide in more than a
year.  The Brazilian real slumped to the lowest in five weeks
against the dollar, signaling increased producer selling,  Jack Scoville , a vice president for Price Futures Group, said in a
telephone interview.  Arabica-coffee futures for September delivery declined 1.1
percent to $1.6305 a pound on ICE, extending this year’s plunge
to 28 percent.  The commodity “was unable to escape the grasp of the
macroeconomic environment,” Joe Scaduto, the president of JPS
Commodities LLC, a broker in New York, said in an e-mailed
report.  Cocoa futures for September delivery slid 0.1 percent to
$2,230 a metric ton in New York, the first loss in three days.  In London futures trading, refined sugar and robusta coffee
dropped on NYSE Liffe. Cocoa advanced.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in  New York  at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  