-- Most Swiss Stocks Decline as EU Leaders Meet for Summit
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-06-28T15:54:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/swiss-stocks-fall-before-eu-summit-adecco-swatch-drop.html
Most Swiss stocks declined, snapping
two days of gains, as leaders of the European Union met for a
two-day summit.  Swatch Group AG dropped after a domestic watch group said
it was concerned about the strength of the Swiss franc.  UBS AG (UBSN) ,
Switzerland’s biggest bank, and  Credit Suisse (CSGN)  Group AG paced
losses in financial shares.  Syngenta AG (SYNN)  led advancers.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  retreated 0.2 percent to 5,986.85 at
the close of trade in Zurich after earlier falling as much as
0.7 percent. The benchmark gauge is heading for a 0.9 percent
advance for the first half of the year. It has still dropped 5.6
percent since its 2012 high on March 16 as Spanish sovereign-
bond yields surged and Greece held a second national election.
The broader Swiss Performance Index also fell 0.2 percent today.  “Expectations for the summit are low as it looks set to be
a more formal rehash of the current stalemate where Spain and
Italy and other weaker nations plead for euro bonds and
Germany’s  Angela Merkel  bluntly repeats her opposition,”
Jonathan Sudaria, a dealer at Capital Spreads in London, wrote
in a note to clients.  EU President Herman Van Rompuy, European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  and European Commission President Jose Barroso have prepared a 10-year road map for the euro area,
which they will discuss at today’s summit.  Quicker Action  French President  Francois Hollande , Italian Prime Minister
 Mario Monti  and Spanish Premier Mariano Rajoy are pushing for
quicker action to ease the sovereign-debt crisis. They back the
creation of euro bonds and want to introduce measures that spur
growth.  The Swiss government has said it’s looking at emergency
initiatives such as negative rates and capital controls to
weaken the domestic currency if the euro region’s turmoil
escalates.  Swiss central bank Vice Chairman Jean-Pierre Danthine said
negative interest rates are among the measures that could be
used in a crisis situation.  “As you know, we don’t exclude any measure,” Danthine
said at an event in Zurich today when asked about the possible
use of negative rates. “This is a measure we could consider if
the circumstances warrant it.”  Swatch (UHR) , the biggest maker of Swiss watches, dropped 1.3
percent to 365.10 francs. Cie. Financiere Richemont SA, the
second-largest luxury goods company, slid 1 percent to 50.50
francs.  The Federation of the Swiss Watch Industry said it is
“very concerned” about the strength of the franc, which weighs
on the producers’ margins and sales prices.  Banks Decline  UBS lost 2.8 percent to 10.74 francs. Credit Suisse, the
country’s second-largest lender, slid 3.3 percent to 16.58
francs.  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER) , the Swiss wealth manager
established in 1890, dropped 1 percent to 33.40 francs.  A gauge of European banks fell 2.4 percent, for the biggest
decline among the 19 industry groups in the Stoxx Europe 600
Index.  Syngenta, the world’s largest maker of crop chemicals,
advanced 1.8 percent to 322 francs, for the biggest gain on the
SMI.  Rieter Holding AG (RIEN) , a Swiss manufacturer of textile
machinery, climbed 4.3 percent to 130.70 francs. UBS raised its
recommendation on the stock to buy from neutral, citing the
benefits of growth in Asia that may boost earnings starting in
2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  