-- Swiss, Austrian Wealth Clients Shun Risk as 22% Expect Euro Ruin
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2012-06-28T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/swiss-austrian-wealth-clients-shun-risk-as-22-expect-euro-ruin.html
Private-banking clients in
 Switzerland  and Austria are holding wealth in less risky assets
as confidence in the financial system and the ability of
advisers to secure investment returns remains low, according to
a study by LGT Group and Johannes Kepler University.  “The majority of private-banking clients remain risk-
averse,” Vaduz, Liechtenstein-based bank  LGT Group  and Linz,
Austria-based Kepler University said in a joint report. “The
high level of risk awareness and loss of confidence are
reflected in the high cash share of portfolios.”  The average cash proportion of investments in Austria
doubled to 44 percent, compared with two years ago, after
wealthy individuals sold commodities and other riskier assets,
the study said. It was little changed at 27 percent in
Switzerland, according to the survey of 258 investors across the
two Alpine countries. The share of alternative investments,
including  hedge funds , remains “very moderate,” it said.  In Switzerland, 77 percent of investors described
themselves as “risk averse” or “risk neutral,” compared with
78 percent in Austria. More than half of those surveyed said
confidence in the financial system had been “severely dented,”
while 22 percent expect the euro region to “collapse,” a
scenario that prompted Austrians in particular to ditch their
home-currency holdings in favor of Swiss francs.  ‘Bad Luck’  Respondents said general market trends as well as “good or
bad luck” played a more important role than advisory services
from their bank or the quality of the firm’s products in
determining returns. The most common objective for this year
among respondents is inflation-adjusted capital growth,
according to the report.  Swiss investors reported a negative average return of 3.7
percent for 2011, compared with a positive 0.1 percent among
interviewees from  Austria , the study said. Fifteen percent of
Swiss respondents and 16 percent of Austrians were satisfied
with the return on investments last year, the report showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  