-- U.K. Home Prices Fall as Economic Slump Deepens, Nationwide Says
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-06-28T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/u-k-home-prices-fall-as-economic-slump-deepens-nationwide-says.html
U.K.  house prices  fell in June as
the economy struggled to rebound from a recession and the end of
a tax break continued to weigh on demand,  Nationwide Building
Society  said.  Prices dropped 0.6 percent from May, when they rose 0.2
percent, the Swindon, England-based lender said in an e-mailed
report today. From a year ago, prices fell 1.5 percent to an
average 165,738 pounds ($258,000). The annual decline is the
biggest since August 2009.  Data from the British Bankers’ Association yesterday
showed net mortgage lending fell in May for the first time in at
least 15 years and  approvals for home loans  declined. With the
economy struggling to recover, the Bank of England and the
Treasury will announce within weeks details on a new program to
get banks to boost lending.  “Economic conditions are expected to remain challenging
over the next 12 months,” Nationwide Chief Economist Robert Gardner said in the report. “However, policy makers’ efforts to
bolster the supply of credit to the economy and to help lower
the cost should provide support to demand.”  Lenders granted 30,238 loans to buy homes in May, down from
32,103 in April, according to the BBA. That’s the lowest since
April 2011. While gross mortgage lending rose to 7.9 billion
pounds in May from 7.6 billion pounds, it was below the average
for the previous six months as the housing market “continued to
see subdued activity.”  ‘Stable’ Prices  High unemployment, weak  consumer confidence  and tight
lending conditions are undermining demand for homes in the U.K.
A  Bank of England  survey in March showed lenders expected the
availability of both secured and unsecured credit to households
to decrease in the current quarter.  The current weakness in the housing market may also reflect
the ending of a tax break for first-time buyers in March,
Nationwide said. That exemption, on homes costing less than
250,000 pounds, boosted demand at the start of the year.  On the outlook for property values, Gardner said he expects
to see a “continuation of the pattern experienced over the past
two years, with prices remaining fairly stable over the next 12
months.” Mortgage lender Halifax said on June 7 that  prices
rose 0.5 percent  in May. It forecast little change in prices for
the remainder of the year, citing the “ongoing tough economic
environment.”  Data today may confirm an earlier estimate that the economy
shrank 0.3 percent in the  first quarter , putting the U.K. into
its first double-dip recession since the 1970s. The  Office for
National Statistics  will publish the data at 9:30 a.m. in
 London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  