-- U.K. Banks See Tighter Lending Terms in Third Quarter, BOE Says
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-06-28T08:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/u-k-banks-see-tighter-lending-terms-in-third-quarter-boe-says.html
U.K. households and companies may
face tighter borrowing terms in the third quarter as lenders
pass on higher funding costs, a  Bank of England  survey showed.  Spreads on secured lending to households widened markedly
in the second quarter and are expected to widen significantly in
the third, the central bank in  London  said in its credit
conditions survey. Only large firms escaped a tightening of
borrowing terms in the second quarter and spreads on loans to
firms of all sizes are predicted to rise markedly.  “A further marked widening of spreads was expected across
secured household and corporate lending in the next three
months, as the elevated cost of bank funding is passed through
to borrowers,” the report said. “The outlook for the economy
and tightness in wholesale funding markets” weighed on the
availability of secured credit to households.  The report underlines the strains in financial markets that
are threatening the growth outlook as  Europe ’s debt turmoil
raises bank funding costs. The Bank of England and the Treasury
will announce within weeks details on a new program to get banks
to boost lending.  The survey, taken between May 14 and May 31, found the
overall supply of credit was on balance unchanged in the latest
quarter. The availability of secured credit for households was
expected to be unchanged in the next three months, though
deteriorate “markedly” for borrowers unable to put down a
significant downpayment.  U.K. house prices fell in June as the economy struggled to
rebound from a recession and the end of a tax break continued to
weigh on demand,  Nationwide Building Society  said today. Prices
dropped 0.6 percent from May, and fell 1.5 percent to an average
165,738 pounds ($258,000) the biggest drop since August 2009.  The British Bankers’ Association yesterday reported that
net mortgage lending fell in May for the first time in at least
15 years as home-loan approvals dropped.  The Bank of England’s Financial Policy Committee will
present its semi-annual report on the stability of the financial
system at a press conference in London tomorrow chaired by
Governor  Mervyn King . Officials met last week, and may say that
banks’ liquidity requirements should be eased to spur U.K.
lending.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  