-- U.K. Police Detectives Being Probed Over Dowler Phone Hacking
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-06-28T12:50:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/u-k-police-detectives-being-probed-over-dowler-phone-hacking.html
Britain’s police regulator is
investigating two senior detectives over what they knew about
 News Corp. (NWSA) ’s News of the World tabloid hacking into the mobile
phone of murdered schoolgirl  Milly Dowler  in 2002.  The Independent Police Complaints Commission is probing the
deputy chief constable of Surrey Police over his alleged
knowledge of the hacking, the watchdog said in a statement on
its website today. It’s also investigating a detective
superintendent over what she told the force during a 2006
internal probe into its handling of the Dowler case.  Surrey Police, the force southwest of London that probed
the 2002 abduction and murder of 13-year-old Dowler, knew about
the newspaper’s illegal voice-mail interceptions and failed to
act, U.K. lawmakers probing the  News Corp. scandal  heard earlier
this year.  “The Dowler family welcomes the proper investigation of
what happened at Surrey Police 10 years ago,” their lawyer,
 Mark Lewis , said in an e-mail. “They regret that the passage of
time means that some individuals can now no longer be
investigated.”  Revelations almost a year ago that News of the World
journalists deleted messages from Dowler’s voice mail during the
police probe led to a public outcry, prompting News Corp.
Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  to close the Sunday tabloid, then
Britain’s biggest-selling newspaper. A media-ethics inquiry
started in response to the scandal later heard evidence the
journalists may not have deleted the messages.  Surrey Police said in a  letter to Parliament’s Culture
Committee  in January that the tabloid told police in 2002 that
it accessed Dowler’s voice mail, saying it got her mobile-phone
number and access code from other schoolchildren. The new probe
is the result of a referral to the IPCC from Surrey Police, the
watchdog said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  