-- U.K. Stocks Drop as Barclays Leads Selloff
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-06-28T16:05:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/u-k-stocks-drop-as-spanish-bond-yields-surge.html
U.K. stocks  fell for the fifth day
in six, as bank shares declined after British lawmakers
criticized  Barclays Plc (BARC)  over its manipulation of inter-bank
lending rates.  Barclays contributed the most to the drop in the  FTSE 100
Index (UKX)  as fines levied by the Financial Services Authority
sparked concern the lender will face lawsuits. Ladbrokes Plc
plunged the most since October 2008 after predicting a decrease
in online profit.  The FTSE 100 Index slid 30.86, or 0.6 percent, to 5,493.06
at the close in London. The gauge has still added 4.4 percent
since the 2012 low on June 1 as Greece formed a coalition
government after its second election in six weeks, easing
concern the nation will leave the euro. The broader FTSE All-
Share Index slipped 0.5 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ
Index gained 0.2 percent.  “The FSA will be girding their loins to look at other
areas of potential market abuse, and at other banks,” said
Gerard Lane, a strategist at Shore Capital Group Ltd. in
Liverpool, England. “It’s unclear where this stops.”  Prime Minister  David Cameron  urged Barclays Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Diamond  to show accountability after the bank was
fined $451 million for attempting to manipulate the inter-bank
lending rate, known as Libor.  Ed Miliband, leader of the opposition Labour Party, and
 Boris Johnson , Mayor of London, called for a criminal
investigation into the matter.  EU Summit  European Union leaders will gather at Brussels for a two-
day summit to discuss ways to contain the region’s debt crisis.
Among the proposals to be debated is a 10-year road map drafted
by European Council President  Herman Van Rompuy  for closer
regional integration.  The plan focuses on common banking supervision and deposit
insurance, along with a “criteria-based and phased” move
toward joint debt issuance. The blueprint also suggests the EU
can impose upper limits on annual budgets and debt levels of
euro-area nations.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has rejected the issuance
of joint euro-area bonds as a way of lowering Spain’s borrowing
costs, a proposal backed by French President  Francois Hollande ,
Italian Prime Minister Mario Monti and Spanish Premier Mariano
Rajoy. Merkel met Hollande last night in Paris.  “We have quite a severe disagreement between the French
and the Germans about the way to go forward,” said Lane. “The
problem is fixable, but compromise and clarity don’t appear to
be the name of the game for politicians.”  Spanish Bonds  Spain’s benchmark  10-year bond yield  increased to as much
as 7.013 percent, a one-week high, before trading at 6.929
percent at 5:44 p.m. in Madrid.  Italy paid the most since December to sell 10-year bonds,
pricing the debt to yield at 6.19 percent, up from 6.03 percent
on May 30. The country sold 5.42 billion euros of five- and 10-
year bonds, near the maximum target of 5.5 billion euros.  In the U.K., data showed that disposable income fell for a
second quarter in the first three months of year, when  consumer
spending  fell and the economy shrank.  Disposable income dropped 0.9 percent in the quarter from
the previous three months, the Office for National Statistics
said. Gross domestic product fell 0.3 percent, matching a
previous estimate and the median forecast of 29 economists in a
Bloomberg survey.  U.K.  house prices  dropped 0.6 percent in June, the
Nationwide Building Society said. That compared with economist
forecast for a 0.1 percent gain, according to a Bloomberg News
survey.  Banks Tumble  A  gauge  of London-listed banking shares fell 4.3 percent,
the biggest decrease since November.  Barclays plummeted 16 percent to 165.6 pence, the most
since March 2009 and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  retreated 2.6 percent to
558.2 pence.  Debenhams Plc (DEB)  gained 2 percent to close at 84.95 pence,
after dropping as much as 2.9 percent in intraday trading.  The company today lowered its profit forecast because wet
weather deterred purchases on higher-margin women’s clothing
lines. The gross margin for the year through August will be 0.3
percentage points lower than last year, the company said.
Debenhams had earlier predicted the margin to be “broadly
flat.”  Ladbrokes Plc (LAD) , the U.K. betting-shop operator, tumbled 12
percent to 152.7 pence after saying a decline in online profit
will be worse than forecast.  Mining stocks retreated as copper prices fell in New York
for the second time in three days.  Glencore International Plc (GLEN) 
slipped 1.6 percent to 293.55 pence and  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED) 
slid 1.4 percent to 871.5 pence.  United Utilities Group Plc (UU/) , the U.K.’s largest publicly
traded water company, gained 2.4 percent to 674.5 pence.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. wrote in a note today Veolia Environnement
SA’s 1.24 billion-pound ($1.9 billion) sale of its U.K. unit is
in line with the usual acquisition costs for the industry and
will have “little impact” on water stocks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in  London  at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  