-- U.S. Stocks Pare Losses on Bets Europe Nearing Debt Pact
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2012-06-28T21:12:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/u-s-stock-futures-decline-before-european-union-summit.html
U.S. stocks pared losses in the
final hour of trading amid speculation European leaders were
nearing an agreement to halt contagion from the debt crisis.  After the market close, European Union President Herman Van Rompuysaid leaders agreed to spend 120 billion euros ($149
billion) to stimulate growth.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  tumbled 2.5
percent after the  New York  Times said trading losses from credit
derivatives may total as much as $9 billion, exceeding the
firm’s initial estimate.  Health-care (S5HLTH)  stocks in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.3 percent as the Supreme Court upheld
the core of President Barack Obama’s industry overhaul.  The S&P 500 dropped 0.2 percent to 1,329.04 at 4 p.m. New
York time, paring a loss of as much as 1.4 percent. The  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  slid 24.75 points, or 0.2 percent, to
12,602.26. Volume for exchange-listed stocks in the U.S. was 6.8
billion shares, about in line with the three-month average.  European leaders began a two-day summit in Brussels today
intended to chart a path out of their financial crisis. Stocks
pared losses as German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  canceled a press
briefing and her spokesman said talks on a growth accord were
ongoing.  “Europe has been the driver of this market,” said Walter “Bucky” Hellwig, who helps manage $17 billion at BB&T Wealth
Management in Birmingham, Alabama. “The postponement of a
conference call was a signal for traders to put on more risk.
Another ‘kick the can’ would be viewed as favorable.”  Economic Data  Equities tumbled earlier today as the number of
applications for unemployment benefits hovered last week near
the highest of the year, showing little improvement in the labor
market. The U.S. economy grew 1.9 percent in the first quarter,
reflecting a gain in consumer spending that now shows signs of
cooling as the labor market weakens.  Concern about a worsening of Europe’s debt crisis and a
global slowdown has taken the  S&P 500 (SPX)  down 5.6 percent this
quarter. Technology and financial shares have had the biggest
losses in the period, tumbling at least 9.6 percent.  Financial shares in the S&P 500 dropped 0.2 percent, paring
a loss of as much as 1.9 percent. Barclays Plc’s record $451
million fines for interest rate manipulation sent bank shares
plunging as U.S. and U.K. authorities pursue sanctions in a
global investigation of more than a dozen lenders.  JPMorgan slumped 2.5 percent to $35.88. The New York Times
reported that the lender’s losses have increased in recent weeks
as it sought to exit its holdings, citing unidentified former
traders and executives at the bank.  ‘Major Loss’  JPMorgan won’t have a “major loss” in 2012 following the
lender’s disclosure of losses from credit derivatives that could
amount to more than $2 billion this quarter,  Richard Bove  said.  “We’re not expecting JPM to run a major loss,” Bove, an
analyst with Rochdale Securities LLC, said today in a Bloomberg
Television interview with  Tom Keene . “I don’t believe that
there’s any likelihood that the liquidity of the company is
going to be affected by this.”  Citigroup Inc. (C)  dropped 2.6 percent to $26.39, trimming a
decline of as much as 5.4 percent. The bank is not one of the
lenders being investigated by the U.K.’s Financial Services
Authority for attempting to manipulate the London interbank
offered rate, the company said in an emailed statement today.  Tenet Healthcare Corp. (THC)  led hospitals and Medicaid insurers
higher while commercial health plans led by  WellPoint Inc. (WLP)  fell
after the U.S.  Supreme Court  upheld most of President Barack
Obama’s health-care overhaul.  Tenet Rallies  Tenet, the third-biggest hospital chain, rose 5.4 percent
to $5.25, while Medicaid plan  Molina Healthcare Inc. (MOH)  climbed 8.6
percent to $23.16. Indianapolis-based WellPoint, the second-
largest U.S. health insurer, declined 5.2 percent to $65.90.  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the largest maker of computer-
networking gear, slipped 1.5 percent to $16.48 after Lazard Ltd.
said in a note today that the company may be seeing weaker-than-
expected demand trends.  Family Dollar Stores Inc. (FDO)  slumped 2.8 percent to $67.20.
The owner of more than 7,200  discount shops  in the U.S. narrowed
its fiscal 2012 profit forecast. Rival  Dollar Tree Inc. (DLTR) 
retreated 2.4 percent to $52.18, while  Dollar General Corp. (DG) 
declined 0.5 percent to $53.73.  News Corp. (NWSA)  dropped 1.4 percent to $21.99, after climbing 11
percent over the previous two days. It announced plans to split
into two publicly traded entities focused on publishing and
entertainment after shareholder pressure prompted the biggest
reorganization since  Rupert Murdoch  built the media empire.  In Talks   Genworth Financial Inc. rallied 11 percent to $5.43. The
life insurer and mortgage guarantor surged as hedge fund
Highfields Capital Management LP said it is in talks with
management about increasing the value of its stake.  U.S. executives are tapping into their record pile of cash
for the first time in four years as they drive spending on
plants and equipment to an all-time high.  Cash held by S&P 500 companies, excluding financial
institutions and utilities, fell 1.4 percent to $1.01 trillion
in the first quarter, according to data compiled by  Howard Silverblatt , a New York-based senior index analyst at S&P.
Capital spending, based on 12-month trailing data compiled by
Bloomberg for the entire index, rose 3.3 percent during the same
period and reached a record $66.6 billion last month.  While record-low interest rates may have prompted companies
to build more factories, concern over the European debt crisis
and expiration of Bush-era tax cuts will make executives
reluctant to keep increasing spending, said David Sowerby, a
money manager at Boston-based Loomis Sayles & Co.  ‘Great Concern’  “It will only persist to the extent that companies remain
reasonably confident in the business outlook,” Sowerby, whose
firm oversees about $170 billion, said in a telephone interview.
“With the great concern in Europe as well as the pending
expiration of the tax cuts, you could see a return to rebuilding
cash and less capital expenditure.”  Companies amassed  $1.03 trillion  in cash at the end of last
year after beating analysts’ earnings estimates for 12 straight
quarters, data compiled by S&P and Bloomberg show. Combined
profits by S&P 500 stocks rose 9.9 percent to a record $92.09 a
share in 2011, Bloomberg data show.  Executives are seeking ways to give back money to
shareholders. While share buybacks fell by 6.2 percent to $84.3
billion in the first quarter from a year earlier, dividends
increased by 14 percent to $64.1 billion, S&P data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  