-- U.S. First Quarter Third Gross Domestic Product (Text)
-- B y   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 2012-06-28T12:35:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/u-s-first-quarter-third-gross-domestic-product-text-.html
Following is the text of the Gross
Domestic Product from the Commerce Department.  GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT:  FIRST QUARTER 2012 (THIRD ESTIMATE)  CORPORATE PROFITS:  FIRST QUARTER 2012 (REVISED ESTIMATE)  Real gross domestic product -- the output of goods and
services produced by labor and property located in the  United
States  -- increased at an annual rate of 1.9 percent in the
first quarter of 2012 (that is, from the fourth quarter to the
first quarter), according to the “third” estimate released by
the  Bureau of Economic Analysis .  In the fourth quarter, real
GDP increased 3.0 percent.  The GDP estimate released today is based on more complete
source data than were available for the “second” estimate issued
last month.  In the second estimate, the increase in real GDP
was also 1.9 percent.  The increase in real GDP in the first quarter reflected
positive contributions from personal consumption expenditures
(PCE), exports, residential fixed investment, nonresidential
fixed investment, and private inventory investment that were
partly offset by negative contributions from federal government
spending and state and local government spending.  Imports,
which are a subtraction in the calculation of GDP, increased.  The deceleration in real GDP in the first quarter
primarily reflected decelerations in private inventory
investment and in nonresidential fixed investment that were
partly offset by accelerations in PCE, in exports, and in
residential fixed investment and a deceleration in imports.  Annual Revision of the National Income and Product Accounts  The annual revision of the national income and product
accounts (NIPAs), covering the first quarter of 2009 through the
first quarter of 2012, will be released along with the “advance”
estimate of GDP for the second quarter of 2012 on July 27, 2012.
The August Survey of Current Business will contain an article
that describes the annual revision in detail.  ______________  FOOTNOTE.  Quarterly estimates are expressed at seasonally
adjusted annual rates, unless otherwise specified. Quarter-to-
quarter dollar changes are differences between these published
estimates.  Percent changes are calculated from unrounded data
and are annualized.  “Real” estimates are in chained (2005)
dollars.  Price indexes are chain-type measures.  This news release is available on BEA’s Web site along
with the Technical Note and Highlights related to this release.
For information on revisions, see “Revisions to GDP, GDI, and
Their Major Components.” ______________  Motor vehicle output added 1.16 percentage points to the
first-quarter change in real GDP after adding 0.47 percentage
point to the fourth-quarter change.  Final sales of computers
subtracted 0.05 percentage point from the first-quarter change
in real GDP after adding 0.12 percentage point to the fourth-
quarter change.  The  price index  for gross domestic purchases, which
measures prices paid by U.S. residents, increased 2.6 percent in
the first quarter; this index increased 1.1 percent in the
fourth quarter. Excluding food and energy prices, the price
index for gross domestic purchases increased 2.4 percent in the
first quarter, compared with an increase of 1.2 percent in the
fourth.  Real personal consumption expenditures increased 2.5
percent in the first quarter, compared with an increase of 2.1
percent in the fourth.  Durable goods increased 13.7 percent,
compared with an increase of 16.1 percent.  Nondurable goods
increased 2.1 percent, compared with an increase of 0.8 percent.
Services increased 0.8 percent, compared with an increase of 0.4
percent.  Real nonresidential fixed investment increased 3.1 percent,
compared with an increase of 5.2 percent in the fourth.
Nonresidential structures increased 1.9 percent, in contrast to
a decrease of 0.9 percent.  Equipment and software increased 3.5
percent, compared with an increase of 7.5 percent.  Real
residential fixed investment increased 20.0 percent, compared
with an increase of 11.6 percent.  Real exports of goods and services increased 4.2 percent
in the first quarter, compared with an increase of 2.7 percent
in the fourth.  Real imports of goods and services increased 2.7
percent, compared with an increase of 3.7 percent.  Real federal government consumption expenditures and gross
investment decreased 5.9 percent in the first quarter, compared
with a decrease of 6.9 percent in the fourth.  National defense
decreased 8.3 percent, compared with a decrease of 12.1 percent.
Nondefense decreased 0.8 percent, in contrast to an increase of
4.5 percent.  Real state and local government consumption
expenditures and gross investment decreased 2.7 percent,
compared with a decrease of 2.2 percent.  The change in real private inventories added 0.10
percentage point to the first-quarter change in real GDP, after
adding 1.81 percentage points to the fourth-quarter change.
Private businesses increased inventories $54.4 billion in the
first quarter, following an increase of $52.2 billion in the
fourth quarter and a decrease of $2.0 billion in the third.  Real final sales of domestic product -- GDP less change in
private inventories -- increased 1.8 percent in the first
quarter, compared with an increase of 1.1 percent in the fourth.  Gross domestic purchases  Real gross domestic purchases -- purchases by U.S.
residents of goods and services wherever produced -- increased
1.7 percent in the first quarter, compared with an increase of
3.1 percent in the fourth.  Gross national product  Real gross national product -- the goods and services
produced by the labor and property supplied by U.S. residents --
increased 0.5 percent in the first quarter, compared with an
increase of 1.8 percent in the fourth.  GNP includes, and GDP
excludes, net receipts of income from the rest of the world,
which decreased $44.3 billion in the first quarter after
decreasing $36.7 billion in the fourth; in the first quarter,
receipts decreased $19.6 billion, and payments increased $24.6
billion.  Current-dollar GDP  Current-dollar GDP -- the market value of the nation’s
output of goods and services -- increased 3.9 percent, or $148.4
billion, in the first quarter to a level of $15,467.8 billion.
In the fourth quarter, current-dollar GDP increased 3.8 percent,
or $143.3 billion.  Gross domestic income  Real gross domestic income (GDI), which measures the
output of the economy as the costs incurred and the incomes
earned in the production of GDP, increased 3.1 percent in the
first quarter, compared with an increase of 2.6 percent in the
fourth.  For a given quarter, the estimates of GDP and GDI may
differ for a variety of reasons, including the incorporation of
largely independent source data. However, over longer time spans,
the estimates of GDP and GDI tend to follow similar patterns of
change.  Revisions  The “third” estimate of the first-quarter increase in real
GDP is the same as in the “second” estimate issued last month,
reflecting a downward revision to imports and an upward revision
to nonresidential fixed investment that were offset by downward
revisions to exports, to personal consumption expenditures, and
to private inventory investment.   Corporate Profits  Profits from current production (corporate profits with
inventory valuation and capital consumption adjustments)
decreased $6.4 billion in the first quarter, in contrast to an
increase of $16.8 billion in the fourth quarter.  Current-
production  cash flow  (net cash flow with inventory valuation
adjustment) -- the internal funds available to corporations for
investment -- decreased $123.9 billion in the first quarter, in
contrast to an increase of $44.8 billion in the fourth.  Taxes on corporate income increased $83.3 billion in the
first quarter, in contrast to a decrease of $0.7 billion in the
fourth.  Profits after tax with inventory valuation and capital
consumption adjustments decreased $89.7 billion in the first
quarter, in contrast to an increase of $17.5 billion in the
fourth. Dividends increased $10.1 billion compared with an
increase of $10.3 billion; current-production undistributed
profits decreased $99.8 billion in contrast to an increase of
$7.2 billion.  Domestic profits of financial corporations increased $26.3
billion in the first quarter, compared with an increase of $29.9
billion in the fourth.  Domestic profits of nonfinancial
corporations increased $15.4 billion in the first quarter,
compared with an increase of $28.4 billion in the fourth.  In
the first quarter, real gross value added of nonfinancial
corporations increased 3.8 percent.  Profits per unit of real
product increased, reflecting an increase in unit prices and a
decrease in unit labor costs; unit nonlabor costs were unchanged.  The rest-of-the-world component of profits decreased $48.1
billion in the first quarter, compared with a decrease of $41.5
billion in the fourth.  This measure is calculated as (1)
receipts by U.S. residents of earnings from their foreign
affiliates plus dividends received by U.S. residents from
unaffiliated foreign corporations minus (2) payments by U.S.
affiliates of earnings to their foreign parents plus dividends
paid by U.S. corporations to unaffiliated foreign residents.
The first-quarter decrease was accounted for by an increase in
payments and a decrease in receipts.  Profits before tax with inventory valuation adjustment is
the best available measure of industry profits because estimates
of the capital consumption adjustment by industry do not exist.
This measure reflects depreciation-accounting practices used for
federal income tax returns.  According to this measure, domestic
profits of both financial and nonfinancial corporations
increased.  The increase in nonfinancial industry profits
reflected increases in all major industries; the largest
increases were in manufacturing and in “other” nonfinancial.
Within manufacturing the increase was widespread; the largest
increases were in petroleum and coal products and in “other”
durable goods.  Profits before tax increased $234.3 billion in the first
quarter, in contrast to a decrease of $8.3 billion in the fourth.
The before-tax measure of profits does not reflect, as does
profits from current production, the capital consumption and
inventory valuation adjustments.  These adjustments convert
depreciation of fixed assets and inventory withdrawals reported
on a tax-return, historical-cost basis to the current-cost
measures used in the national income and product accounts.  The
capital consumption adjustment decreased $230.4 billion in the
first quarter (from $100.9 billion to -$129.5 billion), compared
with a decrease of $1.8 billion in the fourth.  The inventory
valuation adjustment decreased $10.4 billion (from -$18.6
billion to -$29.0 billion), in contrast to an increase of $26.9
billion.  The large increase in first-quarter taxes on corporate
income and the large decrease in the first-quarter capital
consumption adjustment mainly reflected the expiration of bonus
depreciation claimed under the Tax Relief, Unemployment
Insurance Reauthorization and Job Creation Act of 2010.  For
detailed data, see the table “Net Effects of the Tax Acts of
2002, 2003, 2008, 2009, and 2010 on Selected Measures of
Corporate Profits” at
www.bea.gov/national/xls/technote_tax_acts.xls.  Profits from
current production are not affected because they do not depend
on the depreciation-accounting practices used for federal income
tax returns; rather they are based on depreciation of fixed
assets valued at current cost and using consistent depreciation
profiles based on used-asset prices.  For more detail on the
effect of the changes in the tax act provisions on the capital
consumption adjustment, see FAQ #999 on the BEA Web site, “Why
does the capital consumption adjustment for domestic business
decline so much in the first quarters of 2011 and 2012?”  Next release -- July 27, 2012, at 8:30 A.M. EDT for:
 Gross Domestic Product:  Second Quarter 2012 (Advance Estimate)  Annual Revision of the National Income and Product Accounts  (First Quarter 2009 through First Quarter 2012)  SOURCE: U.S. Commerce Department,  http://www.bea.gov .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristy Scheuble in Washington at 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  