-- China, Singapore Exempted From U.S. Iran Oil Sanctions
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2012-06-29T08:02:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/u-s-exempts-china-singapore-from-its-iran-oil-sanctions.html
The U.S. said  China  and  Singapore 
have “significantly reduced” their purchases of Iranian oil,
earning exemptions from U.S. financial sanctions that otherwise
would have been imposed yesterday.  China was the biggest importer of Iranian crude last year,
and Singapore is Asia’s oil trading and refining hub. The U.S.
granted renewable, 180-day exemptions on March 20 to Japan and
10 European Union nations. India,  South Korea , Turkey,  South
Africa , Malaysia,  Sri Lanka  and Taiwan won exemptions June 11.  “A total of 20 world economies have now qualified for such
an exception,” Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement. “Their cumulative actions
are a clear demonstration to  Iran ’s government that Iran’s
continued violation of its international nuclear obligations
carries an enormous economic cost.”  China made substantial reductions in imports in the past
six months because of a pricing dispute with Iran early in the
year. It has pledged future cuts, according to a U.S. official
who spoke on condition of anonymity before the announcement.  “China has been importing  crude oil  from Iran through
normal channels based on its economic development needs,” Hong
Lei, a spokesman for the foreign ministry, said today in
Beijing. The purchases are “completely justified and
legitimate,” he said.  Singapore Response  Singapore didn’t import any Iranian oil in 2011, while
purchasing 2.15 million metric tons of crude, condensate and
 fuel oil  from January to May this year, according to data from
International Enterprise Singapore, a division of the country’s
Ministry of Trade and Industry. The nation has pledged steps to
curtail future imports, according to U.S. officials who asked
not to be identified.  “We welcome the U.S. decision,” Singapore’s foreign
ministry said in an e-mailed statement. “Since May 2012, no
Iranian crude oil was imported.”  Crude for August delivery rose as much as $2.26 to $79.95 a
barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange today, rebounding
from the lowest settlement since October. Futures have fallen 23
percent this quarter, heading for the biggest drop since the
final three months of 2008.  Iran is the No. 2 producer in the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries after  Saudi Arabia , and earns more than half
of its government revenue from oil sales, according to the
 International Monetary Fund . The U.S. sanctions are part of
international efforts to pressure Iran to give up elements of
its nuclear program that could support producing nuclear
weapons. Iran says the program is for peaceful energy and
medical purposes.  EU Embargo  An EU ban on Iranian oil imports goes into effect July 1.
The EU collectively was the second-largest buyer of Iranian oil
in the first half of 2011. As a nation, Japan ranked second
behind China, according to the U.S. Energy Department.  Clinton said reduced oil exports are costing Iran almost $8
billion a quarter in lost revenue. That estimate is based on a
drop in crude exports to 1.5 million barrels a day from 2.5
million a day in 2011 as reported by the  International Energy
Agency  in Paris, she said.  Under the U.S. law enacted Dec. 31, financial institutions
in nations that don’t win exemptions may be cut off from the
U.S. financial system if they settle oil trades with Iran’s
central bank.  “Secretary Clinton has assured me that at this time China
has met the significant reduction standard required by the law
and recent precedent to qualify for an exemption from
sanctions,” said Democratic Senator  Robert Menendez  of New
Jersey, who sponsored the legislation with Republican Senator
 Mark Kirk  of Illinois.  Further Reductions  “The Chinese, however, will have to be mindful that the
law requires a significant reduction every 180 days to continue
qualifying for an exemption and that we will expect to see
additional significant reductions by China and other nations,”
he said.  Mark Dubowitz , executive director of the Foundation for
Defense of Democracies in Washington, said the U.S. should seek
further cutbacks.  “Going forward, the administration should require major
reductions in the next round from China and other countries of
30 to 40 percent, which is more than double what was required
this go-around,” he said in an e-mail. “Oil markets are much
more liquid and can manage a more aggressive reduction in
Iranian oil sales as long as the Saudis maintain current
production.”  ‘Total Boycott’  Mark Wallace, chief executive officer of United Against
Nuclear Iran, a New York-based advocacy group, said in an e-mail
that the world oil supply presents a “unique opportunity” for
nations to stop all Iranian oil purchases.  “We call for the total boycott of Iranian oil to isolate
that regime,” he said.  Republican Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen of Florida,
who heads the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said in an e-
mailed statement that the administration granted a “free pass”
to China, which she called “Iran’s biggest enabler.”  “If the administration is willing to give China, a country
that has aided the Iranian regime’s efforts to acquire nuclear
capabilities, a free pass, who is it willing to sanction?” she
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in  St. Petersburg , Russia, at  ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  