-- U.S. Pledges Substitute for Leaded Aviation Gas by 2018
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2012-06-28T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/u-s-pledges-substitute-for-leaded-aviation-gas-by-2018.html
U.S. regulators plan by 2018 to find
a fuel for most piston-engine private planes to replace the
gasoline that’s the nation’s largest source of toxic lead
emissions.  The  Federal Aviation Administration ’s move yesterday,
 posted  on its website, marked the first time the agency has
stated when it wants to approve an unleaded alternative to
leaded gasoline, which powers most U.S. private aircraft 16
years after regulators banned it for cars.  Leaded aviation gasoline was linked in a  study  last year to
elevated levels of the toxic metal in children living near
general-aviation airports.  “Both the FAA and the EPA have known for a long time that
lead is harmful,” Marcie Keever, legal director for Friends of
the Earth, said in a phone interview. “Six more years is just
too long to wait for the public’s health.”  The advocacy group filed suit in March against the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency to force tighter regulation of
lead in aviation gasoline. Private planes accounted for 56.9
percent of U.S. lead emissions in 2008, according to the EPA’s
most recent data.  The FAA’s statement coincided with the release of a  report 
by an agency advisory committee saying it could take years to
fully replace leaded fuel.  Because aviation-gasoline sales have been shrinking for
more than 10 years and certifying that a new fuel is safe could
be expensive, there’s been little economic incentives for oil
refiners, engine manufacturers or plane owners to develop new
fuels, the report concluded.  No Substitute  The effort to test new fuels will cost the FAA an estimated
$57.5 million over the next 11 years, the committee report said.  There’s no current substitute for 100-octane leaded
 aviation fuel  that would work in all aircraft, the committee
concluded.  “The transition may still be years away, but this report
charts a road map that identifies the essential elements that
need to be addressed to make this happen in a way that maintains
safety and the role government should play in minimizing the
total cost,” Eric Byer, vice president of the  National Air
Transportation Association , said in an e-mail statement.  The NATA, an Alexandria, Virginia-based trade group,
represents businesses at airports serving privately owned
aircraft, including fuel sellers.  The FAA, in its website statement, said it’s committed to a
“fiscally responsible action plan.”  The EPA is continuing to gather data on lead emissions near
airports before determining its next steps, Cathy Milbourn, a
spokeswoman for the EPA, said in an e-mail.  110 Airports  Some fuel suppliers and a former aircraft-company
researcher have disputed statements that there’s no substitute
for leaded gas.  Unleaded fuel can work in most existing aircraft, according
to Cesar Gonzalez, former head of engine and fuel research at
 Textron Inc. (TXT) ’s Cessna Aircraft unit. Of the remaining planes,
most can be modified to use unleaded fuel at a modest cost,
Gonzalez said in phone interviews.  Government and industry could also do more to promote
existing unleaded fuel, Kent Misegades, a fuel distributor in
Cary,  North Carolina , and director of a non-profit group that
advocates the alternative gasoline, said in a phone interview.  While most small planes can now fly on high-octane
automobile gasoline that contains no ethanol, the fuel is
available at only about 110 of 5,100 U.S. airports, Misegades
said in a phone interview.  Lead Emissions  An environmental group, the San Francisco-based Center for
Biological Diversity, notified the EPA yesterday that it intends
to sue to force the agency to enforce lead emission standards
for states, according to an e-mail  statement .  The EPA will review the center’s notice, Milbourn said.  Under lead emission standards introduced in 2008, the EPA
required states within three years to submit plans for
implementing the changes. Thirty-four states and two territories
haven’t filed, the group’s release said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  