-- U.S. Home Loan Banks Overexposed in Europe, Audit Finds
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2012-06-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/u-s-home-loan-banks-overexposed-in-europe-audit-finds.html
The U.S. Federal Home Loan Banks’
unsecured lending to foreign institutions skyrocketed last year
as the European sovereign debt crisis intensified, raising
concerns about their risk management, an auditor’s report said
today.  The  Federal Housing Finance Agency , which oversees the 12
regional Home Loan Banks, should tighten limits on such lending
and improve monitoring of whether that lending exceeds the
limits, the FHFA Office of Inspector General said in the report.  “FHFA’s current regulation continues to permit FHLBanks to
build large unsecured credit portfolios that may produce
unreasonable risk,” wrote Richard Parker, director of the
 auditor’s  Office of Policy, Oversight and Review. “FHFA should,
therefore, reassess the counterparty risk limits associated with
its existing regulation.”  Several  Home Loan Banks  last year made short-term loans
totaling about $3 billion to two European banks that had
received government bailouts and were on a credit watch,
according to the report.  Federal Home Loan Banks ’ unsecured lending to foreign banks
peaked in April of 2011 at $101 billion before falling to $41
billion at the end of the year, the audit found.  In a written response, Stephen M. Cross, deputy director of
the FHFA’s division of Federal Home Loan Bank Regulation, said
that unsecured foreign lending had dropped in response to
increased FHFA oversight. “Nevertheless, underwriting of
FHLBank credit to domestic offices of foreign-owned
counterparties was and is a concern to FHFA,” he wrote.  Providing Liquidity  The Home Loan Banks were chartered by Congress in 1932 to
provide liquidity to the U.S. mortgage market. The banks are
also permitted to make unsecured loans to foreign and domestic
financial institutions to enhance revenue under the terms of
their congressional charters.  The FHFA failed to notice that some of the banks had made
loans exceeding regulatory limits, the Office of Inspector
General said. In one case, an unidentified Home Loan Bank using
a manual evaluation system failed to notice that a borrower had
been subject to a credit-rating downgrade, auditors found.  FHFA officials described the agency’s rules governing
unsecured lending as “outdated and overly permissive,”
according to the report.  “Even when an FHLBank operates within the established
limits it can amass the sort of large unsecured credit exposure
that has been the source of considerable regulatory concern,”
the auditors found.  New Rules  The regulator plans to issue new rules governing unsecured
lending by April of next year, Parker said in his written
response to the audit.  The volume of unsecured lending, particularly to foreign
institutions, rose in part to offset a decrease in the Home Loan
Banks’ traditional activities providing funding to domestic
lenders for home mortgages, according to the report.  Home Loan Banks in  Seattle , Topeka, and  Boston , had the
greatest unsecured credit exposure to foreign borrowers, the
audit found.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  