-- U.S. Economy Grew 1.9% in First Quarter on Consumer Spending
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-06-28T12:48:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/u-s-economy-grew-1-9-in-first-quarter-on-consumer-spending.html
The  U.S. economy  grew 1.9 percent in
the first quarter, reflecting a gain in consumer spending that
now shows signs of cooling as the labor market weakens.  The revised gross domestic product reading matched the
increase previously calculated by the government, Commerce
Department figures showed today in Washington. Corporate profits
were revised to show a drop, the first in more than three years.  Slowing sales at companies from  Darden Restaurants Inc. (DRI)  to
 O’Reilly Automotive Inc. (ORLY)  indicate American households are
reluctant to boost their spending, which accounts for about 70
percent of the economy. A struggling job market and slowing
global markets will make it harder to spur the U.S. expansion,
underscoring the concern of Federal Reserve policy makers.  “The economy is really in a difficult spot at the moment,”
said Jeremy Lawson, a senior U.S. economist at BNP Paribas in New
York. “With the labor market weak and the outlook for incomes
weak, it’s hard to see how  consumer spending  can grow solidly.”  The median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
was 1.9 percent following a 3 percent increase in the prior
quarter. Projections of the 75 economists polled ranged from 1.5
percent to 2.3 percent. The government’s GDP estimate is the
third and final for the first quarter.  The number of applications for  unemployment benefits  hovered
last week near the highest level of the year, showing little
improvement in the labor market, another report today showed.  Jobless Claims  Jobless  claims  decreased by 6,000 to 386,000 in the week
ended June 23, in line with the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News, according to data from the Labor
Department. The prior week’s reading was revised up to 392,000
from 387,000, matching an April figure as the steepest of 2012.  Stock-index futures held earlier losses after the reports.
The contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index maturing in
September fell 0.5 percent to 1,319.1 at 8:47 a.m. in  New York  as
investors waited to see if European leaders could formulate news
plans to address the debt crisis during a two-day summit.  The GDP revision reflected a smaller gain in consumer
spending that was offset by a gain in commercial construction and
a smaller trade deficit than previously reported.  Household purchases rose at a 2.5 percent annual pace
compared with a previously reported 2.7 percent gain. The prior
quarter’s rise was 2.1 percent.  Retail Sales  The smallest wage gains in a year and unemployment exceeding
8 percent are taking a toll on shoppers. Retail sales fell 0.2
percent in May, matching the decrease in April, Commerce
Department figures showed earlier this month. Sales excluding  car
dealerships  slumped by the most in two years.  Darden, owner of the Red Lobster,  Olive Garden  and LongHorn
Steakhouse restaurant chains, reported fourth-quarter revenue
that trailed analysts’ estimates because of an unexpected drop in
sales at its older establishments. The company said customers
grew more cautious in May, and it will focus more on
affordability in its promotional offers.  “We saw the consumer get a lot more cautious in May,”
Clarence Otis, chairman and chief executive officer at Darden,
said on a June 22 conference call with analysts. “And that was
not just at Red Lobster, but across the restaurant industry” and
“generally across the overall consumer environment beyond
restaurants.”  Households are trimming purchases of expensive items like
automobiles as the labor market softens. Cars and light trucks
sold at a  13.7 million  annual rate in May, the weakest this year
and down from April’s 14.4 million pace, Ward’s Automotive Group
data showed.  Demand Cools  O’Reilly Automotive, a retailer of auto parts, tools and
accessories, this week said second-quarter profit will be on the
lower end of its forecast range as sales growth was slower than
expected. Same-store sales for the period may increase as much as
2.5 percent, compared with the earlier forecast of as much as 5
percent, it said.  Manufacturing, a mainstay of the economy, also is losing
speed, according to some regional reports. Factories in the
Philadelphia area shrank in June at the fastest pace in almost a
year, while those in the New York region expanded at the slowest
pace in seven months.  At the same time, orders for capital goods rose 1.1 percent
in May, the first increase since February, helping to ease
concern that businesses will retrench amid a global economic
slowdown that’s curbing demand.  No Pickup  Economists at some of the largest banks on  Wall Street  are
forecasting no pickup in growth this quarter. Following
yesterday’s report on durable goods, Bank of America Corp.’s so-
called tracking estimate for GDP -- which captures the latest
data available -- stood at 1.8 percent. Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.’s estimate was 1.6 percent, Morgan Stanley’s was 1.9 percent
and Barclays Plc’s was 1.7 percent.  Today’s report showed corporate profits fell 0.3 percent in
the first quarter from the prior three months, the first decrease
since the fourth quarter of 2008, during the last recession. They
were up 5.5 percent from a year earlier.  The Fed on June 20 pledged to keep its benchmark  interest
rate  near zero until at least through late 2014. The central bank
announced it’ll expand the Operation Twist program to extend the
maturities of assets on its balance sheet, and said it stands
ready to take further action as needed.  “The Committee expects economic growth to remain moderate
over coming quarters and then to pick up very gradually,” policy
makers said in a statement. Fed officials also lowered their
outlook for growth and employment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  