-- U.S.’s $51 Billion Iraq Projects at Risk, Inspector Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-06-29T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/u-s-s-51-billion-iraq-projects-at-risk-inspector-says.html
Billions of dollars in  Iraq 
reconstruction projects may be wasted as the U.S. transfers them
to the Iraqi government, according to a U.S. watchdog.  “There remains a vulnerability that thousands of
projects” completed with $51 billion in American reconstruction
funds “will not be sustained and thus fail to meet their
intended purposes,” Special Inspector for Iraq Reconstruction
Stuart Bowen said yesterday.  “The record of what the U.S. built in Iraq and what we
transferred to Iraqi control is full of holes,” Bowen told a
House oversight panel during a hearing on the transition to
State Department management after the U.S. military withdrawal
in December.  Bowen first warned of a “sustainment gap” in 2007, saying
the Iraqi government wasn’t capable of performing long-term
operation and maintenance of projects funded by U.S. taxpayers.
Today “it remains unclear whether” the State Department “will
engage in any further follow-up,” Bowen said in prepared
testimony.  One reason is that the withdrawal of U.S. forces combined
with violence outside  Baghdad  makes visits to check on projects
risky and costly, he said.  “To make a movement outside the embassy grounds requires
48 hours of notice, three hardened vehicles and a couple of
shooters in each vehicle, and limited time on site to carry out
your mission,” Bowen said.  Guarding Employees  Bowen and other witnesses described as uncertain both the
security situation and the Iraqi goverment’s commitment to
helping maintain a State Department presence. After violence
fell in March to the lowest level since the March 2003 U.S.
invasion, deaths have again increased in Baghdad, Bowen said.  The State Department has about 16,000 personnel in Iraq at
14 sites, including about 14,000 contractors primarily
responsible for providing logistics and protection for the other
employees. The department has said it will reduce that presence
to a total of 11,500 by September 30, 2013. The State Department
and Pentagon are planning to spend $4 billion this year in Iraq
to support the diplomatic presence.  The Iraq government’s commitment to the continued U.S.
presence “has remained unclear,” said Michael Courts, acting
director for international affairs for the U.S. Government
Accountability Office.  The foreign minister’s office “questioned the size,
location and security requirements of U.S. sites” and as of May
hadn’t signed all land-use or operations agreements, he said.  Parked Vehicles  To transport State Department personnel in high-risk areas,
the U.S. Army left behind 60 fortified Mine-Resistant Ambush-
Protected vehicles that protected U.S. and Iraqi troops from
improvised roadside bombs, Courts said.  “The Iraqi government will not allow their use and so
they’re essentially sitting right now,” Courts said.  Patrick Kennedy , under secretary of state for management,
told the panel the vehicles weren’t being used because after
consultation with the Iraqi government the State Department
determined that they “were not ideally suited” to operations
in heavily populated areas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  