-- U.S. Weather Promises Energy Boost as Temperatures Rise
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-06-28T13:08:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/u-s-weather-promises-energy-boost-as-temperatures-rise.html
Chicago  may reach 99 degrees
Fahrenheit (37 Celsius) today and New York City 90 as a heat
wave that set or tied 196 daily temperature records yesterday
moves east, promising to raise energy demand.  Temperatures broke 100 from North Dakota to Texas yesterday
as 138 new daily highs and 58 warmest lows were set or tied
across the Great Plains, according to the  National Climatic Data
Center  in Asheville,  North Carolina . Yesterday’s highest
temperature was 114 in Benkelman, Nebraska.  “A very hot pattern continues over many areas of North
America over the next two weeks,” said  Matt Rogers , president
of Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland .  Ninety to 100-degree temperatures in the large cities and
suburbs of the U.S. East Coast will spike energy demand, raising
prices in spot electricity markets. The forecasts helped boost
natural gas futures to a five-month high yesterday.  Energy demand may rise by 60 percent from Chicago to the
mid-Atlantic states through July 5, said  David Salmon , owner of
Weather Derivatives in Belton,  Missouri . It may be 30 percent
more in New York, Boston and Philadelphia, he said.  The forecasts pushed natural gas for July delivery to
settle at $2.774 per million British thermal units on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday, the highest level since Jan.
11.  Temperatures throughout the East are expected to be about 8
degrees above normal through July 2, Rogers said. It’s possible
Chicago and the Midwest may stay hotter than normal through July
12, he said.  July Prediction  Heat lasting into July may be a portent of things to come,
according to  MDA EarthSat Weather  in Gaithersburg, Maryland. The
company revised its forecast for July to predict the month will
be one of the five warmest since 1950 in the large cities that
use the most energy.  MDA’s new outlook for July has a population-weighted
cooling-degree days value of 380, exceeding both the 30-year and
10-year norms. That will still be cooler than last July’s 412.5,
MDA said.  Cooling-degree days are calculated by subtracting a base
of 65 degrees from the daily average temperature to show energy
demand. Higher values mean warmer weather and more energy being
used to cool homes and businesses.  Temperatures in the central U.S. are being raised by an
area of high pressure, said  Jim Rouiller , a senior energy
meteorologist at Planalytics in Berwyn,  Pennsylvania . Once such
heat domes set up, “they are very hard to move,” he said.  Drought Contributes  Salmon said drought conditions through the region will
exacerbate the heat. An area from northern  California  to  West
Virginia  has some level of drought, according to the  U.S.
Drought Monitor  in Lincoln, Nebraska.  The only parts of the U.S that may have a chance of cooling
are the extreme corners, said Michael Schlacter, chief
meteorologist at Weather 2000 in New York. He said Maine,
Florida, the Pacific Northwest and parts of coastal California
may be cooler while the rest of the U.S. bakes.  Heat warnings extend from Wisconsin and Michigan into
Alabama and Mississippi, according to the  National Weather
Service .  An excessive heat warning has been posted in eastern
Pennsylvania and western  New Jersey , including Philadelphia and
Trenton. An excessive heat watch, meaning the combination of
heat and humidity may make temperatures feel they are as much as
110 degrees, has been posted from Baltimore to Charlottesville,
Virginia, including Washington.  Temperature Forecasts  The high temperature is expected to reach 95 today and 99
tomorrow in Washington, according to the Weather Service. It may
reach 98 in Philadelphia tomorrow, 99 in Newark; 98 in New York
City; and 92 in Boston.  Atlanta is expected to reach 101 tomorrow and 100 through
the weekend. Toronto will be near 90 throughout the weekend,
according to Environment Canada.  For July 1, the normal average temperature in  New York City 
is 76, according to MDA. It’s 72 in Boston; 79 in Washington; 80
in Atlanta; 74 in Chicago; 84 in Houston; 64 in Seattle and 73
in Burbank, California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  