-- Mumbai, Delhi Lead in Need for Water, McKinsey Reports
-- B y   A r c h a n a   C h a u d h a r y   a n d   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e
-- 2012-06-28T10:17:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/mumbai-delhi-to-lead-in-needing-more-water-mckinsey-says.html
Mumbai  and  New Delhi , India’s most
populous cities, may experience the biggest increase in demand
for water among the world’s largest cities from 2010 to 2025,
the McKinsey Global Institute said today.  Water demand in large cities is expected to rise by almost
80 billion cubic meters, or 40 percent more than current urban
global levels and at least 20 times what  New York  consumes
today, McKinsey’s  report  on urbanization said. India, second
only to  China  in population, will account for 15.8 percent of
the municipal water demand growth, it said.  Meeting drinking, industrial and municipal demand as more
people move to cities will require investments in water supplies
and sewage treatment of about $480 billion by 2025, with $200
billion of that from emerging markets, McKinsey said. The 440
emerging market cities cited include 36 from  India , where the
urban population is expected to climb by about three-quarters by
2030, according to a 2010 McKinsey report.  Mumbai, Delhi, India’s third-largest Kolkata, Chennai,
Bangalore and Hyderabad are swelling as more villagers among its
1.2 billion population migrate in search of better jobs. The
nation, where 93 million reside in urban slums, needs to spend
$2.2 trillion improving infrastructure by 2030, McKinsey said.  Fouled Water  A lack of toilets among infrastructure needs costs India at
least $50 billion a year, mostly through premature deaths and
hygiene-related diseases, a World Bank study found. Lost
productivity, illness and other consequences of fouled water and
inadequate wastewater treatment trimmed 6.4 percent from India’s
gross domestic product in 2006, according to the  World Bank ’s
Water and Sanitation Program.  Providing basic services such as water and housing can be
as much as 50 percent cheaper for large Indian cities than in
rural areas, according to the report.  The nation is among those in east and south  Asia  expected
to account for more than half of the increase in the world’s
urban water consumption. These countries may focus almost 75
percent of their infrastructure spending on improving water
supply to cities by 2025, the report said.  The study suggests that companies looking to market
products in India as well as China consider local city clusters
instead of country-specific investments.  The study of what McKinsey calls the biggest growth of
urbanization ever said governments across 600 cities in the
world will need to invest more rapidly in infrastructure to
support growth. Of these, 440 cities in the  emerging markets  may
add 1 billion new consumers to world growth by 2025, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Archana Chaudhary in New Delhi at 
 achaudhary2@bloomberg.net ;
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  