-- Munch London Exhibit Stars Blurry Egomaniac, No ‘Scream’
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2012-06-28T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/munch-london-exhibit-stars-blurry-egomaniac-no-scream-review.html
At the start of the new exhibition,
“Edvard Munch: The Modern Eye,” at  Tate Modern  in  London , you
encounter a blurry fragment of film in which Munch himself
descends some steps and peers at the camera. He was a hard
fellow to get into focus.  A prolific and long-lived artist (he was born in 1863, 10
years after  Van Gogh , and died in 1944), Munch is largely known
for one uncharacteristic masterpiece: “The Scream.” Much of
his life’s work is in the -- for most of us remote --  Munch
Museum  in Oslo. Many areas, especially of his later output, have
scarcely been explored except by intrepid scholars.  The Tate show, which opened yesterday, offers some novel
perspectives on the man and his art. It can’t be said, however,
that it produces a sharp image of either. On the contrary, like
a number of the exhibits, the overall impression is fuzzy.  The exhibition leaves the crucial question -- whether the
artist really was good -- undecided. There are some powerful
paintings on show, and others that look like casual studio
discards. Still, the show also offers some revelations.  This is Munch without “The Scream,” but it introduces us
to Munch, the video artist or, at least, pioneer and amateur
filmmaker. There are also a number of his photographs,
technically erratic, but a lot less cack-handed than his movies
(which resemble those made by toddlers let loose with an
iPhone).  Shaky Camera  He was, like many 19th-century painters, fascinated by
photography and optical technology. A room is devoted to the
idea that the wide-angle vistas in many of his pictures were
inspired, partly at least, by the lens.  Even with Munch’s still photos, though, it’s difficult to
disentangle accidents from intentional effects. “The Yard at
30B Pilestredet” (c.1902) is smudged through double-exposure or
camera shake. This was where Munch’s mother died in 1868, when
he was 5 years old. As the catalog suggests, the image seems as
if it is seen through tears, though the blur may be a mistake.  Munch probably liked the phantoms that were produced by
photographic errors.  “There is something in my pictures that I cannot
overcome,” he confided after a stay in a clinic for nervous
illnesses between 1908 and 1909, “something that is always
transparent and ghostly.” That emotional specter -- fear,
death, sexual anxiety -- is the true subject of his art.  Garden Nude  Another point about Munch’s oeuvre is made clear by the
first and last sections of the show, both devoted to self-
portraits: His work tends to be all about himself. There are
numerous oils, lithographs and snaps of Munch in his studio,
stark naked in his garden, in bed. This preoccupation with self
is shared by Munch’s admirers (compare Tracy Emin). That isn’t
necessarily a criticism, yet it is a limitation.  Munch went on being obsessed by Munch for a long time. He
didn’t necessarily decline. One of his last works “Self-
Portrait Between the Clock and the Bed” (1940-43) is one of his
most powerful. As another section demonstrates, he repeated
certain compositions time and time again over decades.  Perhaps Munch did this because he was emotionally fixated
on the subjects or because, as the catalog theorizes, it was a
useful source of cash. The first version was usually the best.  Munch’s later work often seems scrappy and patchy, like
this exhibition. “Munch: The Modern Eye” does leave you,
though, with the feeling that there’s plenty more to be
discovered about this elusive artist.  “ Edvard Munch : The Modern Eye” is at Tate Modern, London,
through Oct. 14. Information:  http://www.tate.org.uk .  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Zinta Lundborg’s   New York  weekend,
 Jeremy Gerard  on theater and  Lewis Lapham  on history.  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford, in London, at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/martingayford .  To contact the editor responsible for the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 