-- United Technologies Pleads Guilty in Exports to China
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h ,   J o h n   D i l l o n   a n d   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2012-06-28T22:29:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/united-technologies-set-pay-fine-for-exports-to-china.html
United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  pleaded
guilty to violating the Arms Export Control Act and making false
statements in connection with exports of software that  China 
used to develop its first attack helicopter.  The company’s Pratt & Whitney  Canada  unit and its U.S.-
based Hamilton Sundstrand unit will pay more than
$75 million as part of a settlement with the U.S.  Justice
Department  and State Department, according to prosecutors. The
case stemmed from an investigation led by Immigration and
Customs Enforcement, the Justice Department said in a statement.  The company entered the plea, and accepted a deferred-
prosecution agreement, today before U.S. District Judge Warren W. Eginton in Bridgeport,  Connecticut .  “I am hopeful that the conviction of Pratt & Whitney
Canada and the substantial penalty levied against  United
Technologies  and its subsidiaries will deter other companies
from considering similarly ill-conceived business practices,”
the agency’s director,  John Morton , said in a statement.  The U.S. has prohibited exports of U.S. defense articles
and associated technical data to China since 1989 as a result of
the crackdown on student demonstrators in Tianamen Square in
Beijing earlier that year, according to the Justice Department.
Congress imposed a ban on licenses or approvals of defense
articles to China in February 1990, specifically naming
helicopters for inclusion.  ‘National Security’  “Export controls are an integral part of safeguarding U.S.
national security and foreign policy interests,” United
Technologies’ Chief Executive Officer  Louis Chenevert  said in a
statement. “We accept responsibility for these past violations
and we deeply regret they occurred.”  United Technologies fell $1.56, or 2.1 percent, in  New York 
trading, the biggest decline since June 1. The shares posted the
biggest drop in the Standard & Poor’s 500 aerospace and defense
index.  About $20.7 million of the fine will be paid to the Justice
Department, while the remaining $55 million will be paid to the
State Department as part of a separate accord to resolve
outstanding export issues, according to the statement.  As much as $20 million of the fine may be suspended if the
Hartford, Connecticut-based company applies it to “remedial
compliance measures,” the statement says. The companies must
also retain an independent monitor to make sure they comply with
export laws for the next two years.  Continuing Investigation  Although no individuals were charged in the case,
Connecticut U.S. Attorney David Fein said the investigation is
continuing and he wouldn’t rule out the possibility.  China sought to develop a military attack helicopter
starting in the 1980s, and tried to disguise it as a civilian
program after Congress imposed the ban in order to secure
western assistance, the Justice Department said.  The helicopter, the Z-10, is in production and the first
batches were delivered to the Chinese army in 2009 and 2010, the
Justice Department said. The helicopter has weapons including
30-millimeter cannons, anti-tank guided missiles, air-to-air
missiles and unguided rockets.  During the development of the Z-10, each helicopter was
powered by engines supplied by  Pratt & Whitney  Canada, 10 of
which were delivered to China in 2001 and 2002, the Justice
Department said. Pratt & Whitney Canada determined that the
engines didn’t require a U.S. export license because they were
identical to those supplied to China for a commercial
helicopter.  However, the software used to test and operate the engines
was made by Hamilton Sundstrand in the U.S. and required a U.S.
export license because it was modified for a military
helicopter, the Justice Department said.  Attack Helicopters  Pratt & Whitney knew from the start of the project that the
Chinese were developing an attack helicopter and that supplying
it with U.S.-built components would be illegal, the Justice
Department said. Yet the unit failed to tell its parent company
or  Hamilton Sundstrand  about the program until years later “and
purposely turned a blind eye to the helicopter’s military
application,” according to the department.  “PWC’s illegal conduct was driven by profit,” the Justice
Department said. “PWC anticipated that its work on the Z-10
military attack helicopter in China would open the door to a far
more lucrative civilian helicopter market in China, which
according to PWC estimates, was worth as much as $2 billion.”  Hamilton Sundstrand believed it was providing software for
a civilian Chinese helicopter then stopped work on the program
after it learned there might be an export problem, the Justice
Department said. United Technologies also asked Pratt & Whitney
Canada about the exports, yet the unit modified the software on
its own and continued to export it until June 2005.  Investor Group  The companies told the State Department about the program
in July 2006 after an investor group asked United Technologies
about whether Pratt & Whitney’s role in the program might
violate U.S. laws, according to the statement.  Company disclosures contained “numerous false
statements,” including the assertion that the companies were
unaware that the program involved a military helicopter until
2003 or 2004, the Justice Department said.  United has spent more than $30 million since 2006 to
strengthen its export compliance, Chenevert said in the
statement. The company has also settled 576 civil charges with
the State Department, which include more than 800 exports made
from the mid-1990s to 2011, along with making false statements,
the State Department said.  The agreement comes a year after BAE Systems Plc,  Europe ’s
biggest defense company, agreed to pay as much as $79 million to
settle an export regulations case, the largest civil penalty in
U.S. State Department history.  The Homeland Security Department has seen a “significant
increase” in illegal exports of U.S. weapons technology to
China, said Bruce Foucart, special agent in charge of
investigations for the department’s Boston office.  “This is not the first, and in all likelihood won’t be the
last,” Fourcart said at a press conference in Bridgeport today.  The case is U.S. v. United Technologies, 3:12-cr-146, U.S.
District Court, District of Connecticut (Bridgeport).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net ;
 John Dillon  at U.S. District Court in Bridgeport, Connecticut,
at   jdillon@snet.net ;
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  