-- Turkey’s Tweak of Basel Capital Measures Helps Banks, BGC Says
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2012-06-28T08:08:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/turkey-s-tweak-of-basel-capital-measures-helps-banks-bgc-says.html
Turkey’s fine-tuning of the Basel II
capital rules limits their impact on banks, protecting  Turkiye
Is Bankasi (ISATR)  AS,  Turkiye Vakiflar Bankasi TAO (VAKBN)  and  Yapi & Kredi
Bankasi AS (YKBNK)  from falling below required capital requirements,
brokerage BGC Partners said.  The banking regulator’s discretionary implementation of the
rules reduces the negative impact of Basel II on banks’ capital
adequacy ratios by an average of 100 basis points, or 1
percentage point, BGC bank anaylst Muge Dagistan said in an e-
mailed report today.  “The amendments came as a relief especially to Isbank,
Vakifbank and Yapi Kredi Bank as otherwise their CARs would have
faced the risk of falling below the 12% regulatory threshold in
the next 2 years,” Dagistan said.  The banking regulator in Ankara will allow banks to give a
zero percent risk weighting to foreign exchange reserves held at
the central bank, instead of the  Basel II  requirement of 100%,
according to the regulations published in the Official Gazette
today.  The measures will reduce the average capital adequacy ratio
of banks by 0.2 percentage point after they take effect on July
1, an official from the regulator who declined to identified in
line with policy said by telephone yesterday.  Basel II is designed to establish a more comprehensive and
flexible framework for calculating banks’ risk exposures. Turkey
is among countries including China, Indonesia, the U.S. and
Russia yet to fully implement the capital rules, which were due
to be adopted by the end of 2006, the Basel Committee said in a
report in April.  Yapi Kredi, the Turkish bank co-owned by Istanbul-based  Koc
Holding AS (KCHOL)  and Milan-based  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , will be the worst-hit
large bank from the measures “due to its high exposure to
eurobonds, whose risk weighting is increased to 100 percent,”
Dagistan said.  Yapi Kredi said yesterday it was considering selling its
stakes in insurance unit  Yapi Kredi Sigorta AS (YKSGR)  and pensions unit
Yapi Kredi Emeklilik AS, according to a statement to the
exchange. The sale could improve Yapi Kredi’s capital adequacy
ratio by 2 percentage points, Dagistan said.  Turkish banks’ average capital adequacy ratio was 16.4
percent at the end of April, according to data on the
regulator’s website.  Islamic lender  Albaraka Turk Katilim Bankasi AS (ALBRK)  needs an
“imminent rights issue” to abide by the new reguations as its
current ratio of 12.3 percent puts it in danger of falling below
the threshhold, limiting its ability to extend loans, Dagistan
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  