-- Muse Who Dumped Picasso: John Richardson Tours Gagosian
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2012-06-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/muse-who-dumped-picasso-john-richardson-tours-gagosian.html
Picasso biographer  John Richardson 
stopped in front of “Bather Wringing Her Hair,” in which the
artist’s mistress and muse Francoise Gilot appears as an
awkwardly arched nude with her hair twisted in her chubby fists.  “Whenever I see it I think: ‘I’m gonna wash that man right
out of my hair,’” said Richardson, 88, as he recently led
journalists through “Picasso and Francoise Gilot: Paris-
Vallauris, 1943-1953.”  “And that’s what she was doing at that point. She left him
a few months later.”  This is the fourth grand show curated by Richardson for the
Gagosian gallery. Imbedded in the exhibition is a sampling of
paintings and drawings by Gilot, now 90. According to Richardson
she still paints every day. A self-portrait shows a high degree
of competence, though many others in the Cubistic mode suffer by
comparison.  Gilot was 21, Picasso 40 years older, when they met in
Paris in 1943 during the Nazi Occupation. In the following
decade she bore him two children, Claude and Paloma.  In 1953, she became the only woman to ever leave the
artist.  Woman Drawing  “What she wanted to be perceived as was an artist who had
her own style and her own personality,” said Richardson,
patrician and stylish in a navy-blue seersucker suit.  “And Picasso never took her very seriously as a painter
and made terrible jokes about what she did.”  He noted one exception, “Woman Drawing (Francoise)”
painted in 1951. It shows a woman gazing at a piece of paper and
holding a brush or a pen in her hand.  “It’s one of the most important images of Francoise,”
Richardson said. “Suddenly he decides to see her drawing.”  Richardson, who has spent half a century writing about his
friend, pointed out a flower motif that appears in several
paintings, saying that it represents the “hideous tiles” at
the couple’s house in Vallauris in the south of  France .  He stopped in front of a group of striking, mostly black-
and-white lithographs from 1948 featuring images that depict
Gilot wearing a top with puffed Renaissance-style sleeves. The
outfit, in fact, was a “smelly” goat’s-fur coat Picasso
brought back from the World Peace Congress in  Poland  that year,
Richardson said.  Little Monsters  The exhibition also includes many paintings of the
couple’s young children. Most hang in a room Richardson calls
“a nursery.”  “Picasso is the only great master who could paint children
without sentimentalizing them,” he said.  “His children are brats. They are little brutes. They are
mean-spirited, naughty, nasty.”  In “Paloma sur un fond rouge” (1953), the child is
crouching on a red carpet looking menacing despite her pigtails
as she reaches with meaty, blocky fingers for a yellow car.  “Picasso adored Paloma but he does always turn her into a
predatory monster,” Richardson said.  Gilot’s realistic 1952 painting “Les peintres” depicts
three generations of artists, including Picasso, Gilot and
communist painter Edouard Pignon.  “Of course one of the aspects of their life in Vallauris
was that Picasso became a Communist Party member,” Richardson
said. “And although Francoise would rather forget it, she too
is on the roster of the Vallauris Communist Party.”  After Stalin’s death in 1953, Picasso was commissioned to
do a portrait for a communist literary newspaper, Richardson
said. He based it on a photograph of Stalin at the age of 25.  “The Communist Party was furious; it didn’t look like
their beloved generalissimo, the man they revered so much,”
said Richardson. “And that soured Picasso very much on being a
communist.”  “Picasso and  Francoise Gilot : Paris-Vallauris, 1943-1953”
runs through June 30 at 980 Madison Ave.; +1-212-744-2313;
 http://www.gagosian.com .  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars.  To contact the reporters of this story:
Katya Kazakina in  New York  at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 