-- Veolia Sells U.K. Water Unit as Frerot Seeks to Cut Debt
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-06-28T16:00:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/veolia-sells-u-k-water-unit-as-frerot-seeks-to-cut-debt.html
Veolia Environnement SA (VIE)  sold a U.K.
unit to a Morgan Stanley-backed venture for about 1.2 billion
pounds ($1.9 billion) as the French water company cuts debt.  Veolia will retain 10 percent of the U.K. regulated-water
business for at least five years, the Paris-based company said
today in a statement. The purchase is a joint venture between
Infracapital Partners, a fund managed by a unit of  Prudential
Plc (PRU) , and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  Infrastructure Partners.  Veolia Chief Executive Officer Antoine Frerot plans to cut
debt by 3 billion euros ($3.7 billion) by the end of next year
to make the company more profitable. Frerot said last month he
wants to focus on “promising” countries and will pursue asset
sales in the U.S. and U.K.  “This first significant divestment shows that we are
moving in the right direction regarding the implementation of
our strategic plan,” Frerot said in a statement. “The
transformation of Veolia is progressing at a good pace.”  The company rose 1.1 percent to 10.31 euros in Paris.  “Veolia not only needs to lower its costs and save money
but also increase sales,” Bloomberg New Energy Finance water
analyst Dimitra Christakou said from  London . “They can only do
this in the non-regulated markets.”  Veolia Water serves more than 3.5 million people in
southern  England . Its three regional companies have a combined
annual revenue of 274 million pounds and employ about 1,250
people, according to the company’s website.  Management Changes  Frerot has shaken up management of Veolia this year and
nominated new directors in a bid to bolster his position. His
plans for asset sales and debt reduction depart from the
strategy under predecessor  Henri Proglio , still a director, who
expanded Veolia’s operations to 77 countries.  The utility on May 4 reported a 12 percent slump in first-
quarter earnings after a “difficult” economy hurt waste
operations and profit from domestic water contracts. The
European waste-collection business is in decline and margins on
French water contracts are narrowing, Pierre-Francois Riolacci,
Veolia’s vice president in charge of finance, said May 16.  Veolia is targeting a reduction in net debt to less than 12
billion euros from 15 billion euros by the end of 2013. It plans
to sell 5 billion euros of assets this year and next, cut
operating costs by 120 million euros in 2013 and narrow its
geographic reach.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  