-- Verizon Joins Oil Industry to Support Obama on Sea Treaty
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-06-28T15:57:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/verizon-joins-oil-industry-to-support-obama-on-maritime-treaty.html
Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , an
investor in 80 underwater cable systems, and an industry group
for U.S. energy companies have joined President  Barack Obama ’s
administration in support of a global maritime accord.  Ratifying the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of
the Sea will provide certainty for U.S. companies investing in
sometimes contested international waters, trade organizations
told the Senate Foreign Relations Committee in Washington today.  “Some nations have attempted to encroach on the ability of
U.S. operators to deploy, maintain and repair undersea cables,”
Lowell McAdam, chief executive officer of New York-based
Verizon, said at the hearing. Embracing the treaty would give
the U.S. a voice in resolving such disputes, he said.  The 30-year-old treaty is supported by more than 160
nations, and the U.S. is the only industrialized nation missing
from the roster. President  Ronald Reagan  refused to back the
accord unless changes were made to provisions covering mining
for underwater minerals.  The treaty went into effect in 1994 and establishes
economic and navigational rights in the world’s oceans. It also
sets rules for claims to natural resources, including the rare
earths that are used in high-tech equipment, under the sea floor
in international waters.  “Our companies want this treaty -- quite simply, bottom
line -- because it affects their bottom line,” said Senator
 John Kerry , a Massachusetts Democrat and committee chairman.  ‘Energy Interests’  The Law of the Sea Convention “will advance and protect
America’s energy interests,”  Jack Gerard , chief executive
officer of the American Petroleum Institute, a Washington-based
industry group for companies including  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and
 Chevron Corp. (CVX) , said at the hearing.  The treaty broadens the definition of the Continental
Shelf, placing under U.S. jurisdiction as much as 4.1 million
additional square miles of sea in regions including the Arctic,
Gerard said.  China controls more than 90 percent of the world’s
production of rare earths, and ratification would let the U.S.
secure claims to such minerals in regions including the Pacific
Ocean,  Jay Timmons , chief executive officer of the National
Association of Manufacturers, a Washington-based industry group,
said at the hearing.  Corker, Kerry  Senator  Bob Corker , a Tennessee Republican, questioned how
the treaty would improve a company’s claims, when multinational
companies can file claims using operations in nations that have
ratified it. Kerry said that without signing the accord, the
U.S. wouldn’t have access to the dispute-resolution process.  Technology now makes it possible to extract minerals from
deposits beyond the typical 200-mile limit of a nation’s control
of offshore assets and the start of international waters, Deputy
Secretary of State Tom Nides said yesterday in a phone
interview.  “The technology is so much more sophisticated than it was
in the Reagan era, when we last debated the treaty,” he said.
“Other countries can do so much more, which frankly scares
us.”  Opponents including former Defense Secretary  Donald Rumsfeld  have said the treaty creates a global body to oversee
commercial activity, such as undersea mining, that wouldn’t be
accountable to American citizens. U.S. companies would have to
pay a share of their royalties, which may be distributed to
“less productive countries,” Rumsfeld testified to the Senate
panel on June 14.  At a hearing May 23, U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , Defense Secretary Leon Panetta and Joint Chiefs of
Staff Chairman Martin Dempsey urged Senate ratification for
economic and strategic reasons.  Thomas Donohue , CEO of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce,
brought the treaty to Kerry’s attention during a dinner last
year, Kerry said today. Donohue, who also testified, called for
the Senate to support the Law of the Sea Convention.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  