-- Vertex Shares Fall on Unclear Data on Cystic Fibrosis Drug
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 2012-06-28T20:13:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/vertex-drug-combination-aids-lung-function-in-cystic-fibrosis.html
Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX)  fell the
most in more than four years after releasing combination data on
its cystic fibrosis drug that analysts found difficult to
compare.  One group of patients taking a combination of Vertex drugs,
those with two copies of a gene, improved the most, the
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based company said today in a
statement. A second group with one copy of a gene mutation also
had better lung function, though it was smaller.  Vertex released interim data of the combination treatment
in May that it revised three weeks later, saying there was less
benefit than initially thought. The revision in earlier data
owed to a misinterpretation between Vertex and its statistical
analysis vendor, the company said. Today’s announcement is the
final data for the highest dose. That’s not quite comparable to
the previous data, said analyst  Mark Schoenebaum , an analyst
with ISI Group in New York, in an e-mail.  “The company has declined to release the comparable
data,” Schoenebaum said. “This non apples-to-apples disclosure
has created investor doubt that the data are ‘real.”’  Shares of Vertex fell 16 percent to $51.18 at 4 p.m. in New
York trading, the most since Nov. 5, 2007.  Data showed that 55 percent, or 11 of 20, patients given
the combination of the medicines in the highest dose experienced
improvement by at least 5 percentage points after 56 days. That
compares with 9.5 percent, or 2 of 21 patients on placebo.  “This is consistent with the interim data provided in
May,” said Geoff Meacham, an analyst with JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
in a note to investors today.  Patient Improvement  Patients with a homozygous mutation, or two copies of the
most-common cystic fibrosis-related gene mutation, improved 8.6
percent compared with a placebo. About 70,000 people worldwide
have CF, and almost half carry two copies of that mutation.  “The highest dose arm looks good,” wroteSchoenebaum, in
a note released today. He reiterated his “buy” rating on the
stock.  The medicine, dubbed VX-809, was studied in combination
with Kalydeco, Vertex’s approved treatment for cystic fibrosis
patients with a specific gene mutation. Results were from the
second of three stages of human tests generally required for
U.S. regulatory approval.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 