-- Virgin Mobile, Leap Turn to iPhone to Spur Prepaid Market
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-06-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/virgin-mobile-will-open-retail-stores-to-capitalize-on-iphone.html
Virgin Mobile, the pay-as-you-go
carrier owned by  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , plans to open its first 10
retail stores tomorrow in  Chicago , aiming to profit from the
iPhone’s expansion into the prepaid wireless market.  Virgin Mobile will become the second U.S. prepaid service
to offer the  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  device, following the iPhone’s debut at
 Leap Wireless International Inc. (LEAP)  on June 22. The new stores also
mark a strategy shift for Virgin, which has previously relied on
retailers such as RadioShack Corp. and Best Buy Co. to market
its service, said Jeff Auman, a vice president at the carrier.  Pay-as-you-go companies, which let customers get mobile-
phone service without credit checks and long-term contracts, are
trying to reinvigorate the market by offering the iPhone and
other popular smartphones. The industry has seen its growth slow
in recent years, hurt by major carriers rolling out better
phones and more flexible payment plans.  “We think there’s good demand for high-end devices like
the iPhone in the prepaid market,” Sprint Chief Executive
Officer  Dan Hesse  said in an interview. “There’s a
misperception that the prepaid market is only for people that
are economically challenged. That’s not the case. Our
expectation, based on preorders, is that the iPhone will do very
well on Virgin.”  National Rollout  Sprint, which acquired Virgin Mobile in 2009, runs the
decade-old business as a separate brand, with Virgin Group
founder  Richard Branson  serving as the public face of the
company. The carrier will begin selling the iPhone online today,
with the stores opening tomorrow. The 10 Chicago outlets could
lead to a national rollout, the company said.  Prepaid carriers sell phones with smaller subsidies,
forcing customers to pay higher upfront prices. Users then get
the benefit of relatively low rates and no long-term commitment.
Virgin is selling the iPhone 4S for $649 and the older iPhone 4
for $549, with monthly plans running between $30 and $50. Those
prices include a $5 discount if customers sign up for automatic
monthly payments. Leap, meanwhile, is selling the iPhone 4S for
$500, with a $55 monthly plan.  In the first quarter, the iPhone was the best-selling
smartphone at  AT&T Inc. (T) ,  Verizon Wireless  and Sprint, the three
major U.S. carriers. The Apple product represented 54 percent of
all phones sold at AT&T, 32 percent at Verizon and 34 percent at
Sprint, according to BTIG LLC.  Rival Smartphones  The lack of an iPhone has put U.S. prepaid companies at a
disadvantage until now. To satisfy customers’ desire for
Internet-equipped models, they’ve relied on smartphones from
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ,  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  and  ZTE Corp. (763)   Slowing growth in the prepaid market also has contributed
to takeover talk.  MetroPCS (PCS)  Communications Inc., a Richardson,
Texas-based no-contract carrier, has discussed merging with
Deutsche Telekom AG’s T-Mobile USA division, people familiar
with the matter said last month. MetroPCS shares jumped 14
percent on the news.  Overseas, prepaid carriers have already made inroads with
the iPhone. Worldwide, Apple shipped about 4 million prepaid
iPhones in the first quarter, according to  Strategy Analytics .
The shipments added up to about 11 percent of Apple’s total unit
sales of the device, the research firm found. In the U.S., about
28 percent of wireless consumers use prepaid plans, Strategy
Analytics said.  By working with Leap and Virgin Mobile, Apple is “making
the best smartphone available to an even broader market in the
U.S.,” said  Natalie Harrison , a spokeswoman for the Cupertino,
California-based technology company.  Willing Customers?  Leap, based in San Diego, declined to say how the iPhone
has sold in the week since its release. The company would have
to sell 125,000 iPhones per quarter to fulfill its commitment to
Apple -- or about 10 percent of all phones that Leap sells,
according to  Walter Piecyk , an analyst at BTIG in  New York .  John Weber, an analyst at Framingham, Massachusetts-based
IDC, expects the iPhone to increase the prepaid wireless
industry’s growth and expand its customer base. He predicts that
users will grow at a 10 percent clip now, compared with his
previous projection of 7 percent.  “Without a question, it’s likely to boost the prepaid
market,” Weber said.  Still, some of the biggest prepaid carriers remain on the
sidelines. MetroPCS doesn’t sell the iPhone, though that may
change if Apple rolls out a version with long-term evolution
technology -- a network standard that offers speedier service.  “If we were able to see the iPhone in the LTE, we’d
certainly be interested,” MetroPCS President Tom Keys said.  Aiming Lower  MetroPCS has had talks with Apple about the device, Keys
said. For now, the carrier is focused on lower-cost smartphones.
Its goal is to sell a $99 smartphone within six to nine months,
he said.  TracFone Wireless Inc. , owned by America Movil SAB,
operates at the low end of the market and doesn’t have the
iPhone either. It’s beginning to shift to smartphones, though.
Earlier this month TracFone bought Simple Mobile, which lets
consumers use its service with a smartphone they already have.  The largest contract carriers say they don’t expect to feel
an impact from the prepaid iPhone.  “The competitive landscape that makes up the wireless
industry is one in which we compete daily, so this is business
as usual,” said  Brenda Raney , a spokeswoman for  Basking Ridge ,
New Jersey-based Verizon.  Contract Convenience?  Most customers still want the convenience of a two-year
contract, said  Mark Siegel , a spokesman for Dallas-based AT&T.
“We also offer customers a compelling selection of prepaid
plans and devices that work with any budget.”  Prepaid carriers have other challenges. Getting the iPhone
cheap enough to entice customers may require increasing
subsidies -- something the companies have largely avoided until
now. Carriers also have to make commitments with Apple to buy a
certain number of phones. Sprint is on the hook to sell $15.5
billion’s worth, though that includes sales through Virgin
Mobile and the parent company.  “Everyone thinks that the iPhone is the golden ticket, but
it comes with a lot of weight,” said  Will Stofega , an analyst
at IDC. “But it could increase traffic in a store, and give
them a marquee offering.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  