-- Vitro Appeal, Madoff, Kodak, Philly Orchestra: Bankruptcy
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2012-06-28T12:31:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/vitro-appeal-madoff-kodak-philly-orchestra-bankruptcy.html
The trustee for Bernard L. Madoff
Investment Securities Inc. won an appeal yesterday afternoon
that could free $1.025 billion for distribution to creditors
within four months, if there’s no further appeal.  The Madoff trustee sued Tremont Group Holdings Inc.,
Oppenheimer Acquisition Corp., Massachusetts Mutual Life
Insurance Co. and affiliates for $2.1 billion in funds received
directly from the Madoff firm. Oppenheimer owns the Tremont
hedge fund.  The settlement authorized the trustee to recover $1.025
billion cash from the second-largest group of feeder funds that
funneled money into the Madoff Ponzi scheme. In return for the
$1.025 billion payment into escrow, the foreign and domestic
investment funds will receive about $3 billion in approved
customer claims. The settlement was structured so distributions
on the funds’ claims will be paid directly to the funds’
customers.  Investors in other Tremont funds appealed the settlement.
Those funds were so-called net winners which managed to take
more out of the Madoff firm than they invested. Consequently,
they don’t have customer claims against the Madoff firm under a
ruling by the  U.S. Court of Appeals  upheld this week by the U.S.
Supreme Court. In the appeal decided yesterday, they wanted the
settlement set aside so they too could have claims against the
Madoff firm.  Madoff trustee  Irving Picard , Tremont and Mass Mutual all
joined together requesting dismissal of the appeal. U.S.
District Judge George B. Daniels agreed and threw out the appeal
yesterday afternoon.  Daniels said in his 5-page opinion that the other funds
weren’t customers, weren’t even creditors of the Madoff firm,
weren’t aggrieved by the settlement and thus lacked standing, or
the right to appeal.  The funds on the losing side have 30 days to appeal. If
they don’t seek further review in the U.S. Court of Appeals, the
settlement agreement requires holding the $1.025 billion in
escrow for an additional 90 days before it can be distributed to
customers.  Coupled with a decision by the U.S. Supreme Court this week
not to allow an appeal on the method of claim calculation,
yesterday’s victory means Madoff customers are in for
significant distributions in upcoming months.  Appeals have been preventing Picard from distributing most
of about $11 billion collected for the benefit of customers.
About $7.2 billion is being held up because other customers have
a right of appeal until July 16 from court approval of a
forfeiture by the late Jeffry M. Picower.  Picard said he will make distributions in the “near
future.” He didn’t say exactly when or how much.  Peter Madoff ,  Bernie Madoff ’s brother, will plead guilty
tomorrow in federal court, agree to a 10-year prison sentence,
and consent to the forfeiture of $143.1 billion and all his
personal assets. For the Bloomberg story, click here.  The Madoff firm began liquidating in December 2008, with
the appointment of the trustee under the Securities Investor
Protection Act. Bernard Madoff individually went into an
involuntary Chapter 7 liquidation in April 2009. His bankruptcy
case was consolidated with the firm’s liquidation. Madoff is
serving a 150-year prison sentence following a guilty plea.  The Tremont appeal is Picard v. Tremont Group Holdings
Inc., 11-cv-07330, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan). The Madoff liquidation in  bankruptcy court  is
Securities Investor Protection Corp. v. Bernard L. Madoff
Investment Securities Inc., 08-01789,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The criminal case is
U.S. v. Madoff, 09-cr-00213, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  Updates  Vitro Must Have Stay Today or Tomorrow to Halt Asset Seizures  Vitro SAB will be able to appeal directly to the U.S. Court
of Appeals in New Orleans from a ruling on June 13 by a U.S.
bankruptcy judge in Dallas refusing to enforce the glassmaker’s
Mexican reorganization plan in the U.S.  Unless Vitro convinces the appeals court to impose a stay
pending appeal in the next two days, bondholders will be able to
begin seizing assets of the company and subsidiaries after
tomorrow.  Vitro is appealing because a bankruptcy judge in Dallas
ruled that the Mexican reorganization was “manifestly
contrary” to U.S. law and public policy. In the opinion of the
bankruptcy judge, the Mexican plan improperly allowed Vitro
subsidiaries to chop down their guarantees on $1.2 billion in
defaulted bonds without having been in bankruptcy themselves.  Yesterday, the 5th Circuit in New Orleans granted a direct
appeal, allowing the parties to skip an intermediate appeal to a
federal district judge. Vitro came up short because the circuit
court, in the same order yesterday, refused to accelerate the
appeal.  Carolyn King, one of the three circuit judges who made
yesterday’s ruling, would have held oral argument quickly after
the last brief was filed. She also would have called on the
bankruptcy judge “to decide promptly” on additional “strong
objections” the bankruptcy judge said he didn’t reach because
he already found the Mexican reorganization defective.  Until the circuit court accepted the appeal, there was a
watershed hearing scheduled for today in Dallas where Vitro
would have asked District Judge Royal Furgeson to enjoin the
bondholders from attaching assets. The bankruptcy judge refused
to stop attachment of assets after June 29.  On learning that the circuit court granted the direct
appeal, Furgeson canceled today’s hearing, thus requiring Vitro
to move quickly in the circuit court for a stay pending appeal.  Before Furgeson canceled the stay hearing, holders of 60
percent of the defaulted bonds filed papers urging the district
court not to impose a stay. The subsidiaries could fend off
asset seizure by filing their own bankruptcies, the bondholders
argued.  The bondholders urge the courts to follow the general rule
that special circumstances are required before one company’s
bankruptcy becomes reason for halting legal action against a
non-bankrupt affiliate. The bondholders also contend the
subsidiaries could obtain a stay by filing bonds in the lawsuits
in New York State court where the creditors are obtaining
judgments on the defaulted bonds.  Vitro characterized the bankruptcy court’s ruling as
“unprecedented and erroneous.” The bondholders fault the
Mexican plan because it gives them only 40 cents on the dollar
while Vitro’s shareholders retain stock worth $500 million.  For a summary of the bankruptcy court’s June 13 opinion,
click here for the June 14 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  After defeats in courts in Mexico, the bondholders won
their victory in the Vitro parent’s Chapter 15 case in Dallas.
Chapter 15 isn’t a full-blown reorganization like Chapter 11. It
permits a foreign company in bankruptcy abroad to enlist
assistance from the U.S. court to enforce rulings from the home
country.  The appeal in the Circuit Court is  Vitro SAB de CV (VITROA)  v. Ad
Hoc Group of Vitro Noteholders (In re Vitro SAB de CV), 12-
90055, 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (New Orleans). Vitro’s
motion in district court for a stay pending appeal was In re
Vitro SAB de CV, 11-3554, U.S. District Court, Northern District
of Texas (Dallas). The suit in bankruptcy court where the judge
decided not to enforce the Mexican reorganization in the U.S. is
Vitro SAB de CV v. ACP Master Ltd. (In re Vitro SAB de CV), 12-
03027, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Texas
(Dallas). The bondholders’ previous appeal in the circuit court
is Ad Hoc Group of Vitro Noteholders v. Vitro SAB de CV (In re
Vitro SAB de CV), 11-11239, 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals
(New Orleans). The bondholders’ appeal of Chapter 15 recognition
in district court is Ad Hoc Group of Vitro Noteholders v. Vitro
SAB de CV (In re Vitro SAB de CV), 11-02888, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Texas (Dallas). The Chapter 11 case
for U.S. subsidiaries is In re Vitro Asset Corp., 11-32600, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Texas (Dallas). The
Chapter 15 case for the parent is Vitro SAB de CV, 11-33335, in
the same court.  AMR Judge to Decide if Hotel Deal Is a ‘Forward Contract’  Is a long-term contract to provide hotel rooms for airline
crews a “forward contract” that the hotel owner may cancel
despite bankruptcy? That’s a question the bankruptcy judge will
decide in the Chapter 11 reorganization of  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) , the parent
of  American Airlines  Inc.  Hotel operator  HTL Operating LLC , sometimes known as MCM
Elegante Hotel, has a five-year contract to provide hotel rooms
for air crews at the rate of $69 a night. HTL, from Odessa,
Texas, claims the right to terminate the contract, arguing it’s
a forward contract that can be terminated under an exception to
the so-called automatic stay in bankruptcy.  HTL contends it falls within the protection of Section 556
of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, claiming to be a forward contract
merchant because it agrees to provide hotel services in the
future.  AMR will have a chance to respond prior to a hearing on
July 19. If HTL wins, the case could set a precedent where
bankrupt companies may be unable to enforce many contracts to
supply goods or services.  AMR can make several arguments in response. It can point to
the definition of “forward contract merchant” by contending
that hotel rooms aren’t “the subject of dealing in the forward
contract trade.”  Leaders of the pilots’ union agreed to send the company’s
revised offer to the membership for a vote. To accommodate the
time necessary for voting, the bankruptcy judge agreed not to
issue a ruling until Aug. 8 on whether the airline can modify
union contracts with pilots, flight attendants and mechanics.  The proposal will give pilots a 14.8 percent pay increase
over six years along with 13.5 percent of the reorganized
airline. For the Bloomberg story, click here.  Fort Worth, Texas-based AMR listed assets of $24.7 billion
and debt totaling $29.6 billion in the Chapter 11 reorganization
begun in November. American Airlines entered bankruptcy with 600
aircraft in the mainline fleet and another 300 with American
Eagle, the feeder airline.  The case is In re AMR Corp., 11-15463, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Rakoff Tips His Hand on Upcoming Safe-Harbor Case  In footnotes to two recent rulings on other subjects, U.S.
District Judge Jed Rakoff may have tipped his hand that he will
rule in the next few weeks in favor of financial institutions by
expanding the sweep of the so-called safe harbor protecting
swaps from attack in bankruptcy cases.  Rakoff first ruled in September that the safe harbor
contained in Section 546(e) of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code
precludes trustee Irving Picard from suing to recover fictitious
profits taken out of Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC
more than two years before bankruptcy. Picard is taking the
ruling up on appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals in Manhattan,
seeking reversal and the right to sue going back six years.  An affiliate of  ABN Amro  Bank NV persuaded Rakoff to take a
lawsuit out of bankruptcy court dealing with a similar safe
harbor for swaps. In a brief filed this month, the bank wants
Rakoff to dismiss the suit because the money that originally
emanated from Madoff came into its hands as part of a swap
transaction with a so-called feeder fund. The bank argues that
the safe harbor for swaps in Section 546(g) bars the suit
because the money came from a swap.  Although the trustee will file his opposition papers later,
the trustee has already argued that the safe harbor doesn’t
apply because he’s not attempting to void the transaction
between the feeder fund and the bank. Picard says the swap safe
harbor doesn’t apply because he’s going after the bank as a
subsequent recipient of funds fraudulently transferred from the
Madoff firm to the feeder fund.  Picard’s argument is based on the notion that the recovery
he seeks against the bank as a subsequent transferee is made
possible by Section 550. That section isn’t one of the
enumerated sections covered by the safe harbors in Section 546,
the trustee says.  That’s where Rakoff’s footnotes come into play.  In substantially identical language in footnotes in two
short opinions on June 25 and May 15, Rakoff said he “rejects”
the argument that the safe harbor doesn’t apply just because the
trustee isn’t attempting to recover from a swap party on a
fraudulent transfer theory. Without citing authority, Rakoff
said in his footnotes that the safe harbor applies any time the
original transfer would invoke the safe harbor.  In the dispute with AMB Amro, the bank will file a reply
brief on July 25. No date has been set as yet for oral argument
in Rakoff’s court.  The Madoff firm began liquidating in December 2008, with
the appointment of the trustee under the Securities Investor
Protection Act.  Bernard Madoff  individually went into an
involuntary Chapter 7 liquidation in April 2009. His bankruptcy
case was consolidated with the firm’s liquidation. Madoff is
serving a 150-year prison sentence following a guilty plea.  The case involving ABN Amro and swaps is part of Securities
Investor Protection Corp. v. Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities LLC, 12-mc-00115, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan). The Madoff liquidation case is
Securities Investor Protection Corp. v. Bernard L. Madoff
Investment Securities Inc., 08-01789, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The criminal case is
U.S. v. Madoff, 09-cr-00213, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  Kodak to Hold July 26 Hearing to Name Court for Patent Issues  When  Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ)  holds a hearing in bankruptcy court
on July 2 for approval of procedures for selling digital imaging
technology, the bankruptcy judge won’t know yet whether a
federal district judge will take away the right to make
decisions regarding patent disputes.  When Kodak sued  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  this month for a declaration
about ownership of 10 patents, Apple responded by filing a
request for a federal district judge to take the dispute out of
bankruptcy court. Yesterday, U.S. District Judge George B. Daniels called for a hearing on July 26 to decide if making a
patent decision is beyond the competence of the bankruptcy
court.  When the bankruptcy court in New York conducts the hearing
on July 2, there will be objections from high-technology
companies contending he doesn’t have the right to rule on issues
involving technology ownership. The ruling Daniels will make
after the July 26 hearing may decide the extent to which the
bankruptcy court can make rulings on disputes regarding patent
rights in the course of selling Kodak technology.  Companies objecting to having decisions made in bankruptcy
court include  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,  Ricoh Co. Ltd. (7752) ,  Nikon Corp. (7731) ,  Motorola
Solutions Inc. (MSI) , and Apple.  Kodak’s $400 million in 7 percent convertible notes due
2017 traded at 2:36 p.m. on June 27 for 14.179 cents on the
dollar, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Rochester, New York-based Kodak filed for Chapter 11
reorganization in January, listing $5.1 billion in assets and
$6.75 billion in debt. Liabilities for borrowed money, totaling
$1.6 billion, included $100 million on a first-lien revolving
credit and $96 million in outstanding letters of credit. Other
liabilities include $750 million in second-lien notes, $406.1
million in convertible notes, and $252.4 million in senior
unsecured notes. Kodak said trade debt is $425 million.  Kodak’s case is In re Eastman Kodak Co., 12-10202, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  MF Global, Canadian Settlement Brings $60.6 Million  The trustee liquidating MF Global Inc., the defunct
commodity broker, filed papers yesterday for approval of a
settlement to generate $60.6 million for customer with foreign
accounts.  The trustee for the Canadian affiliate was making a $43
million claim against the U.S. broker for funds held for its
customers. At the same time, the U.S. broker was seeking $103.6
million which the Canadian trustee admitted were segregated for
customers.  The two claims will be offset, generating $60.6 million for
distribution to customers of the U.S. brokerage if the
bankruptcy judge in New York approves the settlement at a July
11 hearing. For a Bloomberg story, click here.  The  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)  parent and the commodity
brokerage subsidiary went into separate bankruptcies on Oct. 31.
The holding-company parent is under control a Chapter 11
trustee, while the broker is under control of a separate trustee
selected by the Securities Investor Protection Corp.  The holding company’s Chapter 11 case is In re MF Global
Holdings Ltd., 11-15059, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan). The liquidation of the broker
is In re MF Global Inc., 11-02790, in the same court.  No Creditors Vote Against Philadelphia Orchestra Plan  When the  Philadelphia Orchestra  opens tomorrow’s
confirmation hearing, the ensemble will report to the judge that
not a single creditor voted against approval of the Chapter 11
reorganization plan. If the judge approves the plan by signing a
confirmation order, it will allow the orchestra to exit from
bankruptcy begun in April 2011.  The plan is based on settlements with the musicians’ union,
the musicians’ pension plan, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp.,
and the  Kimmel Center , where the orchestra performs.  Donations from the orchestra’s board will cover the $5.49
million cost of the plan that extinguishes $100 million in debt.
The orchestra incurred $8.9 million in professional fees and
other costs while in Chapter 11.  The orchestra has almost no secured debt. For the $35.5
million claim resulting from termination of the existing
musicians’ pension plan, the pension fund will receive a $1.75
million cash payment under a settlement agreement. The PBGC
receives $1.3 million in installments.  General unsecured creditors are to receive 50 percent in
cash on claims totaling about $555,000.  The orchestra’s Chapter 11 petition stated that assets and
debt were both less than $50 million.  The case is In re The Philadelphia Orchestra Association,
11-13098, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of
Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  Blue Raven to Be Sold July 25 Without Formal Auction  Blue Raven Technology Inc. , a provider of parts and repair
services for consumer electronics and computers, will return to
bankruptcy court in Boston on July 25 for authority to sell the
business for $1.4 million to private-equity investor Leading
Ridge Capital Partners LLC from Rockville, Maryland. Blue Raven
filed for Chapter 11 protection on May 30.  Although there won’t be a formal auction before the sale-
approval hearing, other prospective buyers are invited to make
offers. If Leading Ridge loses out, the bankruptcy judge said he
will award a $50,000 breakup fee.  Based in Wilmington, Massachusetts, Blue Raven had $17.7
million of revenue in 2011.  The petition listed assets of $2.1 million and debt
totaling $8.3 million, including $950,000 in secured claims.  The case is In re Blue Raven Technology Inc., 12-14693,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  Northampton Generating’s Exclusivity Less Than Sought  Northampton Generating Co. LP, the owner of a 112-megawatt
electric generating plant in Northampton, Pennsylvania,
persuaded the bankruptcy judge again to enlarge the time within
which the company has exclusive right to propose a
reorganization plan.  Where Northampton wanted an enlargement of exclusivity by
three months to Sept. 30, the court in Charlotte, North
Carolina, only pushed the deadline out to Aug. 17.  Northampton is now a so-called merchant electric generator
as a result of the termination of a power-purchase agreement
with Metropolitan Edison Co. It is now part of the PJM
Interconnection LLC network. The plant is fueled by waste
products such as waste coal, fiber waste, and tires.  The Charlotte, North Carolina-based company defaulted on
bonds in 2009. Debt includes $73.4 million owing on senior bonds
issued through the Pennsylvania Economic Development Financing
Authority. The Authority also issued junior bonds on which $21.8
million is owing, according to a court filing.  Filed in December, the petition lists assets and debt both
in excess of $100 million. Later, the company filed official
lists showing assets of $205 million and debt totaling $121.5
million, including $95.4 million in secured debt.  The case is In re Northampton Generating Co. LP, 11-33095,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Western District of North Carolina
(Charlotte).  Plum TV Sells Business, Converts Case to Chapter 7  The Chapter 11 reorganization of  Plum TV Inc.  was converted
at the end of last week to a liquidation in Chapter 7 where a
trustee was appointed. The operator of television stations in
resort markets sold the business in April to Media Greenhouse
LLC for $1.17 million cash and debt assumption.  The company said that the remaining $100,000 isn’t
sufficient to pay the costs of the reorganization case and
permit confirming a Chapter 11 plan. There are as much as $3
million in unsecured claims, according to court papers.  Plum filed under Chapter 11 on in January. The television
stations were in Colorado, eastern Long Island, New York;
Martha’s Vineyard and Nantucket, Massachusetts; Miami and Idaho.
The Bronx, New York-based company said assets are $8.6 million,
with liabilities totaling $19 million.  Revenue for 2011 was $6.4 million, producing an $8.4
million net loss, a court filing said.  The case is In re Plum TV Inc., 12-10017, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Daily Podcast  Madoff, Nortel, Apple-Kodak, Coal Mining: Bankruptcy Audio  The U.S. Supreme Court declined to hear appeals arising
from the bankruptcy liquidations of Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities LLC and Nortel Networks Inc. Bloomberg Law’s Lee Pacchia and Bloomberg News bankruptcy columnist Bill Rochelle
discuss how the Madoff decision is significant for the Ponzi
scheme’s customers while the Nortel decision is an important
precedent explaining when a government’s regulatory proceedings
aren’t halted automatically by bankruptcy. The podcast continues
by laying out the significance of the latest skirmish between
Apple Inc. and Eastman Kodak Co. The podcast closes by using
 James River Coal Co. (JRCC)  as the focal point for an analysis of the
coal industry and whether there may be a string of bankruptcies
in coming years. To listen, click here.  Downgrades  Arch Coal Downgraded by Moody’s Second Time Since May  Although  Arch Coal Inc. (ACI)  was downgraded in early May by
Moody’s Investors Service, the producer of thermal and
metallurgical coal from both the Appalachians and the western
U.S. received another strike yesterday from Moody’s.  The new Moody’s corporate grade of B2 is one level below
the downgrade issued in May by  Standard & Poor’s .  Moody’s now gives Arch’s senior unsecured debt a rating of
B3.  St. Louis-based Arch faces the same problems as everyone
else in the coal industry, low prices for natural gas and a warm
winter.  Although Arch’s liquidity will deteriorate, Moody’s
predicts cash will be “sufficient” in the next 12 to 18
months.  Arch is the second-largest U.S. coal producer.  Gas Producer Quicksilver Downgraded to B- by S&P  Quicksilver Resources Inc. (KWK) , a natural gas exploration and
production company, was downgraded again yesterday by Standard &
Poor’s despite a drop issued in early May.  The corporate rating fell another level to B- while the
senior unsecured debt now has a CCC+ rating. The subordinated
debt became CCC.  S&P said that “liquidity could deteriorate materially over
the next 12-18 months” as a consequence of “lower natural gas
liquids pricing assumptions and our lower production estimate.”  The $350 million in 7.125 percent senior subordinated notes
due 2016 last traded yesterday for 79.25 cents on the dollar, to
yield 14.483 percent, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Fort Worth, Texas-based Quicksilver rose 16.3 percent
yesterday to $5.06 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Advance Sheets  Multiple Bankruptcies Add Only 90 Days for Tax Claims  The  Internal Revenue Service  can tag on only one 90-day
extension under Section 507(a)(8) of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code
when deciding if a tax debt is entitled to priority, U.S.
District Judge Carlos Murguia ruled on June 26 in Kansas City.  The case involved individuals who had been in Chapter 7 or
Chapter 13 on four occasions. Although the fourth bankruptcy
culminated in a confirmed Chapter 13 plan, there was a question
about whether a tax debt was entitled to priority. The
bankruptcy judged decided it wasn’t, and Murguia agreed.  The case turned on Section 507(a)(8) where a tax debt has
priority if it was due within three years of bankruptcy. The
three-year look back is extended during a prior bankruptcy,
“plus 90 days.”  The IRS contended 180 days should be added on in view of
two of the prior bankruptcies.  Although other court rulings are sparse, Murguia concluded
that the statute permits adding only 90 days, regardless of the
number of prior bankruptcies.  The case is U.S. v. Montgomery, 11-2107, U.S. District
Court, District of Kansas (Kansas City).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 