-- Vivendi Chief Levy Is Said to Prepare to Step Down
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-06-28T15:41:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/vivendi-said-to-consider-company-breakup.html
Jean-Bernard Levy , the  Vivendi SA (VIV) 
chief executive officer who has resisted investor calls for a
reorganization to revive a  stock trading  near a nine-year low,
is preparing to step down, said people familiar with the matter.  Levy, 57, plans to depart after 10 years at the Paris-based
telecommunications and media company, including seven years at
the helm, said the people, who asked not to be identified before
an announcement. Vivendi’s supervisory board is meeting today to
discuss Levy’s future, said one person.  Vivendi jumped as much as 7.5 percent on the Paris
exchange. Levy has been criticized by shareholders asking for
plans to tackle the low valuation of the owner of  Universal
Music Group , video-game publisher  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI)  and
phone divisions in France, Morocco and  Brazil . Vivendi has been
considering an overhaul of its structure, including a possible
sale of Activision Blizzard and a spinoff of pay-TV unit  Canal
Plus , which is 20 percent owned by  Lagardere SCA (MMB) , people
familiar with the matter have said.  “Levy’s resignation makes it more likely that we’ll see
steps toward structural changes, since he was seen as a defender
of the group’s structure” said Mirko Maier, an analyst at
Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg in Stuttgart,  Germany . “The
likelihood of major asset sales or even a split-up is
increasing.”  News Corp. (NWSA)   News Corp., the media company controlled by  Rupert Murdoch ,
said today it plans to separate into two units after its board
approved a split of publishing assets from entertainment
businesses.  Vivendi rose as much as 1 euro to 14.46 euros and closed
5.5 percent higher at 14.20 euros in Paris.  Vivendi officials didn’t return phone calls and an e-mail
seeking comment.  Michel Combes , the  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  executive who was due
to join Vivendi as head of the SFR French mobile-phone unit on
Aug. 1, will no longer take that role, two people familiar with
the matter said. A Vodafone official declined to comment.  SFR’s top union representative, Geoffroy de Vienne, wrote
in a letter today to Levy, Vivendi Chairman Jean-Rene Fourtou
and personnel chief Stephane Roussel that the management must
come up with an “industrial strategy.” He also said that an
exceptional supervisory board meeting had been called.  Strategy Differences  Levy and Fourtou have disagreed for months over the need to
revamp Vivendi’s structure, people familiar with the situation
said. The CEO resisted major asset sales or a breakup of the
company he helped build up when he acquired Activision Blizzard
and Brazilian phone operator GVT, and negotiated a deal on SFR,
the people said.  The differences between the two executives’ views were
apparent during last weekend’s management summit, and were
exacerbated by a U.S. court decision this week to fine Vivendi
$956 million over a 2001 transaction with Liberty Media Corp.,
they said.  Vivendi’s stock is down 18 percent this year through
yesterday, valuing the company at 17.3 billion euros ($21.5
billion). The shares had fallen more than 30 percent since Levy
announced his latest deal in April 2011 -- the 7.95 billion-euro
buyout of the SFR venture with Vodafone. Cheaper phone packages
from competitor  Iliad SA (ILD)  have since cut into SFR’s profit, and
now Vivendi doesn’t expect earnings for the entire company to
grow again until 2014.  Debt Ratings  Levy joined Vivendi in 2002 as chief operating officer
after an acquisition binge under former CEO Jean-Marie Messier
left it on the brink of collapse. After rising to CEO, Levy
blocked Norwegian investor Alexander Vik’s attempt to break up
the company in 2006.  Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings added pressure
this week by saying Vivendi’s debt ratings could be threatened
unless the company shows it can reduce its liabilities.
Vivendi’s net debt increased to about 12.5 billion euros at the
end of March, nearing the level reached a decade ago.  Fitch yesterday cited potential legal damages related to a
$956 million verdict this week in a U.S. lawsuit over Vivendi’s
2001 purchase from Liberty Media Corp. of a stake in USA
Networks Inc. Vivendi said it would appeal the ruling.  The cost of insuring Vivendi’s bonds using credit-default
swaps fell as much 3 basis points, or 1.6 percent, to 198 basis
points following the news, according to Bloomberg prices. Still,
that cost has increased 15 percent since the beginning of the
year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  EMI Deal  Meanwhile, European regulators have a Sept. 6 deadline to
rule on a bid by  Universal Music  to acquire EMI Group’s
recorded-music business, which they have said would create a
company almost twice the size of the next-largest player in
 Europe . Universal may not be sufficiently constrained by smaller
competitors, customers’ buying power or illegal music downloads,
the EU said when it opened an in-depth probe in March.  Vivendi failed to shed light on its long-term strategy
after a meeting of top executives last weekend outside Paris.
Instead, Levy told a private gathering of investors in  London  on
June 26 that he would focus on cutting costs at SFR, people with
knowledge of the matter said.  Levy and Fourtou already faced calls to change managers and
invite new members to the board at the company’s shareholder
meeting this year.  “Our conglomerate discount has become gigantic, close to
40 percent,” Fourtou said on April 19 in Paris. “We will not
stay idle, and there are no taboos about how we will tackle
this. We will look over our strategy, our perimeter and our
image among investors.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  