-- Vivendi Chief Levy Steps Down After Strategy Differences
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-06-28T19:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/vivendi-chief-levy-steps-down-after-strategy-differences.html
Vivendi SA (VIV)  Chief Executive Officer
 Jean-Bernard Levy , who failed to revive the company’s stock from
a nine-year low, will step down after strategy differences with
the board.  Levy is departing after  10 years  at the telecommunications
and media company, including seven years at the helm, Paris-
based Vivendi said in a statement today after a meeting of its
supervisory board. General Counsel Jean-Francois Dubos was
appointed to head the management board. Vivendi has hired a
headhunter to look for a permanent CEO, said a person with
knowledge of the matter who asked not to be named because the
plan isn’t public.  Vivendi jumped as much as 7.5 percent on the Paris exchange
today after people familiar with the matter told Bloomberg News
that Levy was preparing to step down. The 57-year-old was
criticized by shareholders for failing to tackle the low
valuation of the owner of  Universal Music Group  and phone
divisions in France, Morocco and  Brazil . Vivendi has been
considering an overhaul of its structure, including a possible
sale of video-game publisher  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI)  and a
spinoff of pay-TV unit  Canal Plus , people familiar with the
matter have said.  “Levy’s resignation makes it more likely that we’ll see
steps toward structural changes, since he was seen as a defender
of the group’s structure” said Mirko Maier, an analyst at
Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg in Stuttgart,  Germany . “The
likelihood of major asset sales or even a split-up is
increasing.”  SFR Chief  Vivendi  rose  74.5 cents, or 5.5 percent, to 14.20 euros at
the close of trading on the Paris exchange, paring the stock’s
decline this year to 13 percent and valuing the company at 18.3
billion euros ($22.7 billion).  Michel Combes , the  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  executive who was due
to join Vivendi as head of the SFR French mobile-phone unit on
Aug. 1, will no longer take that role. Instead, Vivendi’s head
of personnel, Stephane Roussel, will become SFR CEO, it said
today.  Levy and supervisory board Chairman Jean-Rene Fourtou have
disagreed for months over the need to revamp Vivendi’s
structure, people familiar with the situation said. The CEO
resisted major asset sales or a breakup of the company he helped
build up when he acquired Activision and Brazilian phone
operator GVT, and negotiated a deal on SFR, the people said.  U.S. Lawsuit  The differences between the two executives’ views were
apparent during last weekend’s management summit, and were
exacerbated by a U.S. court decision this week to fine Vivendi
$956 million over a 2001 transaction with  Liberty Media Corp. (LMCA) ,
they said.  Levy’s departure follows “a divergence of views on the
strategic development of the group,” Vivendi said in its
statement. “The supervisory board wishes to thank Jean-Bernard
Levy for his contribution over the last ten years alongside
Jean-Rene Fourtou.”  Another global media company today bowed to shareholder
pressure for a reorganization.  News Corp. (NWSA) , the media empire
controlled by  Rupert Murdoch , said it plans to separate into two
units after its board approved a split of publishing assets from
entertainment businesses.  Through yesterday, Vivendi shares had fallen more than 30
percent since Levy announced his latest deal in April 2011 --
the 7.95 billion-euro buyout of the SFR venture with Vodafone.
Cheaper phone packages from competitor  Iliad SA (ILD)  have since cut
into SFR’s profit, and now Vivendi doesn’t expect earnings for
the entire company to grow again until 2014.  Debt Ratings  Levy joined Vivendi in 2002 as chief operating officer
after an acquisition binge under former chief  Jean-Marie Messier 
left it on the brink of collapse. After rising to CEO, Levy
blocked Norwegian investor Alexander Vik’s attempt to break up
the company in 2006.  Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings added pressure
this week, saying Vivendi’s debt ratings could be threatened
unless the company shows that it can reduce its liabilities.
Vivendi’s net debt increased to about 12.5 billion euros at the
end of March, nearing the level reached a decade ago.  Fitch yesterday cited potential legal damages related to a
the verdict this week in a U.S. lawsuit over Vivendi’s 2001
purchase from Liberty Media of a stake in USA Networks Inc.
Vivendi said it would appeal the ruling.  EMI Deal  Also weighing on Vivendi’s debt is the takeover of  EMI
Group (EMIS) ’s recorded-music business by  Universal Music . European
regulators have a Sept. 6 deadline to rule on the deal, which
they have said would create a company almost twice the size of
the next-largest player in  Europe . Universal may not be
sufficiently constrained by smaller competitors, customers’
buying power or illegal music downloads, the EU said when it
opened an in-depth probe in March.  Vivendi failed to shed light on its long-term strategy
after a meeting of top executives last weekend outside Paris.
Instead, Levy told a private gathering of investors in  London  on
June 26 that he would focus on cutting costs at SFR, people with
knowledge of the matter said.  SFR’s top union representative, Geoffroy de Vienne, wrote
today in a letter to Levy, Fourtou and Roussel that the
management must come up with an “industrial strategy.”  Levy and Fourtou already faced calls to change managers and
invite new members to the board at Vivendi’s shareholder meeting
earlier this year.  “Our conglomerate discount has become gigantic, close to
40 percent,” Fourtou said on April 19 in Paris. “We will not
stay idle, and there are no taboos about how we will tackle
this. We will look over our strategy, our perimeter and our
image among investors.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  