-- Walnut Place Loses Bid to Revive Bank of America Lawsuit
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-06-28T16:39:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/walnut-place-loses-bid-to-revive-bank-of-america-lawsuit.html
A  New York  appeals court upheld the
dismissal of a lawsuit against  Bank of America Corp.  by
investors seeking the repurchase of defective loans underlying
more than $1 billion in securities.  New York State Supreme Court Justice Barbara Kapnick threw
out the complaint by Walnut Place LLC and related entities in
March, saying the lawsuit was “premature.” An appeals court in
 Manhattan  today upheld the dismissal, saying the complaint was
barred by a clause in pooling and service agreements that
“plainly limits” the right to sue.  Walnut Place sued Bank of America’s Countrywide Home Loans
unit last year, accusing it of making false representations and
warranties about loans backing more than $1 billion in
securities.  Walnut Place is a pseudonym used by hedge fund Baupost
Group LLC, according to Theodore Mirvis, a Bank of America
attorney. Boston-based Baupost, founded by Seth Klarman, is the
“real plaintiff” in the case, Mirvis said at a court hearing.  Elaine Mann, a Baupost spokeswoman, said in March that the
firm doesn’t comment on specific investments.  Walnut Place had said in court papers that it was suing
because  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. , as trustee for
bondholders, “unreasonably failed” to sue Bank of America to
enforce the obligation to repurchase loans.  ‘Premature’ Filing  In her decision, Kapnick said the filing of the lawsuit was
“premature under the circumstances” because it came just days
after BNY Mellon said it needed more time to evaluate the
matter. Walnut Place had directed BNY Mellon to sue Countrywide
over the loans.  In addition, BNY Mellon “did, in fact, act upon” Walnut
Place’s complaints, as demonstrated by an $8.5 billion
settlement with Bank of America and a group of institutional
investors over Countrywide mortgage bonds, Kapnick wrote. That
settlement, which Walnut Place has challenged, awaits court
approval.  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America, and David Grais, a lawyer for
Walnut Place, didn’t immediately respond to messages seeking
comment on today’s decision.  The case is Walnut Place LLC v. Countrywide Home Loans
Inc., 650497-2011, New York State Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  