-- Watpac to Boosts Mining as Slow Building Spurs Pullback
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-06-28T03:44:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/watpac-to-boosts-mining-as-slow-building-spurs-pullback-1-.html
Watpac Ltd. (WTP) , an Australian
construction company, is seeking to capitalize on the nation’s
resources boom by boosting its mining division to about half of
its total revenue from around 30 percent now.  The Brisbane-based company plans property sales of as much
as A$150 million ($151 million) in the next 12 months as it
disposes of land slated for long-term development, acting Chief
Executive Officer Martin Monro said yesterday. The group is
reinvesting the proceeds into the purchase of new equipment
needed to expand its mining unit, he said.  “There were some property assets that for us to realize
full value out of them would have taken a long, long time,”
Monro said in an interview in Sydney. “We’re moving from what
has traditionally been a capital-light business -- construction
-- to the mining part of our business,” with heavy plant and
equipment and labor needs, he said.  Watpac last month said the sales of development assets will
result in a one-time charge of as much as A$90 million before
tax. The group will see profit of about A$16 million in the year
ending June 30, similar to last year, compared with earlier
forecasts for a 20 percent increase, it said this month, partly
as a result of unresolved claims related to its construction and
mining projects.  Its  shares  gained 0.9 percent to 58.5 Australian cents as
of 1:43 p.m. in Sydney.  Property Sales  The company is selling primarily office, retail and
industrial sites in southeast Queensland and Airlie Beach in the
state’s north that it hasn’t received development approvals for,
Monro said.  The timeframe in which the company achieves its mining
target will depend on the return it’s able to extract from the
sizable investments it must make in its mining operations, Monro
said. It aims to focus the expansion of its mining division
within the core areas it’s already in, including gold, copper,
iron-ore and mineral sands, Monro said.  Watpac, builder on the first stage of Frasers Property
 Australia ’s A$2 billion Central Park apartment project in Sydney,
halted a share buyback it announced in December as it injects
capital into its mining division, Monro said. The stock slumped
45 percent this year, compared with the S&P/ASX 200 Index, which
fell 0.1 percent.  Watpac, which is providing mining and crushing services to
at  BC Iron Ltd. (BCI) ’s Nullagine Iron Ore project in  Western
Australia ’s Pilbara region, is unlikely to shift its focus
entirely to mining, Monro said. It’s still seeking opportunities
to grow its property business, with the company likely to bid
for a  mixed-use project  in Brisbane’s city center, he said.  Future Payoff  “The strategy around going into mining is to remove
ourselves from just being exposed to the construction sector in
south-east Queensland,” Monro said. “Investment in mining will
pay dividends for us this year and next, but construction is
still the more profitable business now.”  Monro, who stepped into his temporary role on May 28 when
former managing director Greg Kempton said he was retiring, is
being considered alongside external candidates for a permanent
position at the head of the company, he said. Monro expects the
company’s board to review the candidates in the next two months,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  