-- Yurun to Make Statement on Drop to Six-Year Low: Hong Kong Mover
-- B y   M a r c o   L u i   a n d   B i l l y   C h a n
-- 2012-06-28T08:12:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-28/yurun-to-make-statement-on-drop-to-six-year-low-hong-kong-mover.html
China Yurun Food Group Ltd. (1068)  said it
will make a statement today after the market closes in Hong Kong
regarding its drop to the lowest in almost six years.  China ’s second-largest meat-product supplier  fell  13
percent to HK$6.51, the lowest since October 2006, at the close
of trade in Hong Kong. The benchmark  Hang Seng Index  fell 0.8
percent.  The company’s “large amount of cash on hand” raises
questions because the company also has low interest income and a
high level of bank loans, Sean Zhang, an analyst at SWS Research
Co., wrote in a note to clients today. Yurun reported HK$5.1
billion in cash on hand and bank loans of HK$5.9 billion, Zhang
wrote.  “Yurun requires cash for daily operations including hog
purchases,” Winny Yip, a spokeswoman for the company, said by
phone today. “Terms for bank loans were agreed upon in the
past.”  Yip said the company would make an announcement about the
share price move after the market closes today in  Hong Kong .  Yurun said in its annual report that it was under
“enormous pressure” after the National Business Daily reported
in September reported that meat sold by one of the company’s
units contained clenbuterol, an illegal additive.  The company’s first-quarter profit was “far from reaching
normal levels,” Chairman Zhu Yicai told reporters in March.  Net income dropped 34 percent from a year earlier in 2011,
the company reported in March, while gross profit margin fell
5.8 percentage points to 8.6 percent from a year earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marco Lui in Hong Kong at 
 mlui11@bloomberg.net ;
Billy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 bchan101@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  