-- 
Allot, Teva Lead Record Rout on Growth Outlook: Israel Overnight

-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 
2011-10-02T15:25:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-01/allot-teva-lead-record-rout-on-growth-outlook-israel-overnight.html
Israeli companies listed in the U.S.
posted the biggest quarterly loss on record amid concern that
the global economy may be headed for another recession and
political risk in the  Middle East  is worsening.  The Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index of the largest Israeli
companies traded in New York fell 21 percent in the third
quarter, the worst performance according to data going back to
August 2005. Declines were led by the 47 percent drop in  Allot
Communications Ltd. (ALLT) , the nation’s biggest maker of high-speed
networking equipment, while  Internet Gold-Golden Lines Ltd. (IGLD) , an
internet service provider, fell 46 percent.  The Israel-US 25 Index trailed the Tel Aviv benchmark TA-25
Index, which dropped 12 percent, the worst quarter since June
2010, as companies in the New York gauge depend more on
international sales. The TA-25 Index tumbled 2.2 percent at the
4:30 p.m. close in  Tel Aviv  today, the first trading day since
Sept. 27. A worldwide equity rout erased about $9.2 trillion
from global stocks since the end of June as signs mounted that
the world economy is faltering and concern increased in  Israel 
that Palestinians’ push for statehood would create turmoil.  “There was a bit of a double-whammy -- the most
significant is obviously the global growth concerns,” said
Uriel Goren, head of the international clients desk at Tel Aviv-
based DS Securities & Investments. “People are feeling that the
entire stability of the Middle East is quite shaken right now.”  UN Outlook  The  United Nations Security Council , in its Sept. 30
preliminary discussions about the Palestinian application for
full membership to the world body, decided to have a committee
of experts meet to examine whether the bid fits the criteria for
membership. Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  has been
lobbying allies to oppose the measure and the Obama
administration says it will exercise its veto if the measure
reaches the  Security Council .  Israel joined countries including Turkey and  Brazil  in
reducing borrowing costs last month as the global economy
slumped. The first cut to the benchmark  interest rate  in 2 1/2
years surprised 20 of 22 economists surveyed by Bloomberg, who
forecast the bank would keep rates unchanged as Israel seeks to
tame inflation. More than 400,000 people protested the rising
cost of living in street demonstrations in September.  The shekel weakened 9.2 percent from the end of June
through September, to 3.7486 per dollar, the fourth-best
performance among 10 emerging-market currencies in  Europe , the
Middle East and  Africa .  Overseas Sales  Israeli companies that get most of their sales overseas,
such as  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , are affected more
by the global slowdown than those that depend on domestic
demand, said Gilad Alper, an analyst at Excellence Investments
House in  Ramat Gan , Israel.  Teva’s American depositary receipts, which have the largest
market value among U.S.-listed Israeli companies, slid 23
percent in the third quarter amid concern over the future of its
best-selling multiple sclerosis drug, Copaxone. The drug, which
accounted for 23 percent of second-quarter revenue, faces new
competition from a competing pill made by Novartis AG. Teva’s
biggest market is the U.S. and its performance was also affected
by slower growth in the American economy, Alper said.  The shares of the world’s biggest generic-drug maker jumped
5.7 percent to 140.70 shekels, or the equivalent of $37.53 in
Tel Aviv today. Teva’s  New York  shares were traded at the
steepest premium to its Israeli stock among all companies in the
Bloomberg index on Sept. 30. They rose in each of the last five
trading days, climbing 0.8 percent to $37.22 on Sept. 30, to
widen the gap to $1.70 more than the Israeli shares.  Share Offering  Allot Communications dropped 14 percent, its biggest
decline since Aug. 21, to 37.65 shekels in Tel Aviv, or the
equivalent of $10.04. They plummeted 8.5 percent, the most in
six weeks, to $9.75 on Sept. 30 in the U.S.  Allot fell 47 percent in New York last quarter. The company
announced plans on Aug. 1 to issue 4.5 million new shares, then
said it would put the offering on hold following declines in the
market.  Allot’s decline was mainly caused by the company’s
offering, which would dilute the value of the shares, said Jay Srivatsa, an analyst at Chardan Capital Markets LLC in New York.
A selloff in technology stocks in the U.S. also aggravated the
Allot’s share slump, he said. The Standard and Poor’s 500
Information Technology Index lost 8 percent since the end of
June, the most in five quarters.  “Once the investors start to feel better about the marco
conditions in the economy, as well as start getting more into
the tech names, we’ll start to see a lot of benefits from
that,” Srivatsa said.  Share Valuation  Fundtech Ltd. (FNDT) , the Israeli provider of banking software for
Bank of America Corp. and HSBC Holdings Plc, was the best
performer in the Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index in the third
quarter, gaining 16 percent. The stock surged after GTCR Golder
Rauner LLC, a Chicago-based private-equity firm that owns rival
software maker BankServ, offered to buy the company for a 33
percent premium.  Fundtech rose 0.2 percent to 85.56 shekels, or the
equivalent of $22.82, in Tel Aviv today.  Israel, whose population of 7.7 million is similar to
 Switzerland ’s, has about 60 companies listed on the Nasdaq Stock
Market, the most of any country outside  North America  after
 China .  Israel’s stock market was upgraded to developed market
status by MSCI Inc. in May 2010, the same month the 63-year-old
country was accepted to the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development.  Stocks in the Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index trade at 13
times trailing earnings, compared with a historical average of
27 times. The valuations suggest Israeli stocks are poised for
gains, according to Goren of DS Securities & Investments.  “There will be a rebound, but it will be very much
correlated with global markets,” Goren said. “Companies are
trading at ridiculous valuations. The downside now is much more
limited.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 Lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Cuadros in  Sao Paulo  at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  