-- 
Tampa Bay Shuts Out Texas 9-0; Yankees-Tigers Game Suspended by Rainstorm

-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 
2011-10-01T04:00:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-01/tampa-bay-defeats-texas-9-0-yankees-tigers-suspended-by-rain.html
Catcher Kelly Shoppach drove in five
runs with two homers and rookie Matt Moore threw seven scoreless
innings as the  Tampa Bay Rays  beat the  Texas  Rangers 9-0 in
their American League Division Series. The New York Yankees-
Detroit Tigers playoff game was suspended by rain.  Johnny Damon  added a two-run home run and Moore held the
Rangers to two hits last night for the Rays, who took a 1-0 lead
in the best-of-five first-round series. It was the second Major
League Baseball start for the 22-year-old Moore, who was called
up from the minors earlier this month.  “It is a good way to get your foot in the door,” said
Shoppach, who recalled that he didn’t even know Moore’s first
name when the rookie was promoted. “This is a huge stage. Very
impressed by the way he handled himself.”  The Yankees’ game in  New York  against the Tigers in the
other AL Division Series opener was suspended by rain last night
with the score tied 1-1 after the top of the second inning.  The game at Yankee Stadium, delayed 1 hour, 17 minutes
before it was suspended, will resume today at 8:37 p.m. with the
Yankees coming to bat in the bottom of the second inning. Game 2
has been pushed back to tomorrow.  ‘Hard to Predict’  “We knew it was going to rain, but we didn’t think it was
going to rain this hard,” said Yankee manager Joe Girardi.
“The weather is hard to predict around here. It’s been hard to
predict all year long.”  The Rays made up a nine-game deficit to the  Boston Red Sox 
in the wild-card chase in the final month of the regular season,
and rallied from a 7-0 eighth-inning deficit to defeat the
Yankees two days ago to clinch a playoff spot.  The Rangers, who lost in five games to the  San Francisco
Giants  in last year’s  World Series , defeated the Rays three
games to two in the AL Division Series in 2010. Texas, which led
the major leagues with a .283 team batting average this season,
managed two hits -- a single and a double by Josh Hamilton --
against Moore and two Rays relievers.  Shoppach said he’d never caught Moore until pregame warmups.  “He’s got life on his fastball,” Shoppach said in a
televised interview. “He throws off-speed stuff for strikes. We
were talking about how nasty he was. He was getting some really
bad swings off a really good offense. We were impressed with
him.”  Not Nervous  Moore said he only found out 24 hours earlier that he’d be
starting, and didn’t have time to get nervous.  “I’m glad it was a day game, I didn’t have a lot of time
to think about it,” he said. “I looked up in the fifth and saw
it was 8-0. After that, it was just a matter of throwing strikes
and getting out of the innings.”  Shoppach, who hit .176 during the regular season, hit a
three-run homer in the third inning to put the Rays ahead 6-0
and added a two-run shot in the fifth.  “They keep throwing it where I’m swinging,” Shoppach said.  The National League playoffs begin today. The  Philadelphia
Phillies , who had the best record in the majors this season at
102-60, host the  St. Louis Cardinals , who made up a 10 1/2-game
deficit in the wild-card race to edge the  Atlanta Braves  by one
game. The Arizona Diamondbacks travel to  Milwaukee  to start the
other series.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  