-- 
Anadarko Doesn’t Have to Face Some BP Spill Cleanup Claims

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 
2011-10-01T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-01/anadarko-petroleum-wins-dismissal-of-bp-spill-oil-cleanup-injury-claims.html
Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  won’t have
to face personal injury claims arising from exposure to oil and
other chemicals in the cleanup campaign following the 2010  BP
Plc (BP/)  spill in  Gulf of Mexico .  Anadarko and Mitsui & Co.’s Moex Offshore unit, BP’s
minority partners in the doomed well, can’t be held responsible
for these claims under maritime law, U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  said yesterday. He previously dismissed maritime claims
against the two companies in lawsuits brought by businesses and
individuals alleging economic losses.  “Anadarko and Moex are dismissed as defendants” in these
suits claiming personal injury caused by exposure, Barbier said
in the ruling. The plaintiffs can continue claims for chemical
or oil exposure injuries against other defendants and most can
seek punitive damages, he said.  The Macondo well blowout and the explosion that followed
killed 11 workers and set off the worst offshore  oil spill  in
U.S. history. The accident and spill led to hundreds of lawsuits
against London-based BP and its partners and contractors,
including multiple claims brought by vessel captains, residents
and others exposed to chemicals and oil during the cleanup.  Barbier’s order yesterday dismisses personal injury claims
by cleanup workers and coastal residents or tourists who didn’t
mention a specific health problem resulting from their exposure
to the oil slick or chemical dispersants in their claims against
the spill companies.  Symptoms, Monitoring  “The bottom line is people who were exposed to oil or
dispersants with manifest symptoms have the right to pursue
personal injury damages and request medical monitoring,”  Steve
Herman , a lawyer for spill victims, said yesterday in a phone
interview. “People who may have been exposed but are completely
asymptomatic can’t sue for damages.”  John Christiansen , a spokesman for The Woodlands, Texas-
based Anadarko, declined to comment on the ruling. A Moex
spokesman also declined to comment on it.  The case is In Re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana  ( New Orleans ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 