-- 
Manchester’s Rivals, Newcastle Remain Unbeaten in Premier League Soccer

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-10-01T16:38:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-01/manchester-s-rivals-newcastle-remain-unbeaten-in-premier-league-soccer.html
Manchester United , Manchester City
and Newcastle all won to remain unbeaten in English soccer’s
Premier League.  Manchester United beat Norwich 2-0 and Manchester City won
4-0 at Blackburn, keeping the rivals in the top two spots in the
standings. Newcastle was a 2-1 winner at Wolverhampton to move
up to third place.  Both Manchester teams have 19 points after seven matches,
with defending champion United leading the standings on a
superior goal difference. Newcastle has 15 points to move two
points ahead of Chelsea, which plays at Bolton tomorrow.  Aston Villa also maintained its undefeated start by beating
Wigan 2-0, Liverpool won 2-0 at rival Everton and Sunderland
came from behind to tie West Brom 2-2.  Anderson and  Danny Welbeck  scored in the second half to
give Manchester United the home win at Old Trafford.  Anderson opened the scoring with a header in the 68th
minute, two minutes after Anthony Pilkington shot wide as he
went in alone on United goalkeeper Anders Lindegaard. Pilkington
also hit the goalpost in the 75th minute and Welbeck scored with
three minutes left to clinch the win.  Adam Johnson ,  Mario Balotelli ,  Samir Nasri  and Stefan Savic
scored in Manchester City’s rout of Blackburn. Johnson and
Balotelli had goals three minutes apart in the second half to
give City a 2-0 lead before Nasri and Savic closed the scoring.  Demba Ba and Jonas Gutierrez scored in the first half of
Newcastle’s win at Wolves. The Magpies have four wins and three
draws from seven games.  Penalty  Unbeaten  Aston Villa  beat Wigan on goals from  Gabriel Agbonlahor  and Darren Bent. Villa moves up to sixth place with
11 points from two wins and five ties.  Andy Carroll and Luis Suarez scored as Liverpool beat rival
Everton, which had Jack Rodwell red-carded 23rd minute for a
challenge on Suarez. Everton goalkeeper Tim Howard saved Dirk Kuyt’s penalty kick just before halftime.  Nicklas Bendtner and Ahmed Elmohamady scores as Sunderland
rallied for the home draw with West Brom, which got goals in the
opening five minutes from James Morrison and Shane Long.  Tottenham hosts Arsenal, Fulham plays Queens Park Rangers,
Swansea visits Stoke in tomorrow’s other games.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  