-- 
Australian Businesses See ‘Fiscal Crisis’ Without Tax Changes

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-10-01T01:34:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-01/australian-businesses-sees-fiscal-crisis-without-tax-changes.html
The  Business Council of Australia , a
national lobby group on public policy, urged the government to
simplify the  tax code  or risk plunging the country into a
“fiscal crisis” by the middle of the century.  Australia  will face an annual  budget deficit  for state and
federal governments of 5 percent of economic output, or A$70
billion ($68 billion), in 2050, without tax changes, the council
said in a report today.  “Australia faces an unfolding fiscal crisis,” the
Business Council said. “The sooner Australia gets its tax
system right, the more likely we will be to generate the
economic growth that will support the necessary revenue
generation in the years ahead.”  The council released the report ahead of a government tax
forum scheduled to be held in Canberra on Oct. 4 and Oct. 5.
Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said the focus of the meeting will be on
ways to keep Australia’s government debt under control. Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard  has pledged to return the federal budget
to surplus in 2013, after recording a shortfall of A$47.7
billion in fiscal 2010-11.  An aging population will raise pressure on governments to
pay for increased health-care costs and social programs, and
without cuts in other spending and a change to the tax system,
governments won’t be able to meet those demands, according to
the report.  ‘Inefficient and Uncompetitive’  The current tax system is inefficient and uncompetitive,
the council said.  Australia had an effective corporate tax rate on new
investments of 26 percent in 2010, compared with an average of
18 percent among competitor countries, according to the report.
The top marginal personal income  tax rate  is also uncompetitive
within the Asia-Pacific region, the group said.  The council urged the government to start by abolishing
stamp duties and insurance taxes, which it said are taxes on
transactions that limit mobility of labor and capital and harm
innovation and productivity.  The country should move to reduce its dependence on
personal income and company taxes and become more reliant on
consumption taxes such as for goods and services, the group said.  “This will raise necessary revenue while supporting growth
and investment,” the council said in the report.  Swan already rejected that proposal according to the
 Australian  newspaper.  “It’s a lazy solution” to increase consumption taxes,
Swan told reporters yesterday, according to the newspaper.
“It’s not a path the government is going down.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  