-- 
Yankees, Rangers, Phillies and Brewers Win Baseball Division Series Games

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-10-02T04:37:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-01/brewers-beat-diamondbacks-4-1-in-game-1-of-national-league-division-series.html
Robinson Cano  tied a Yankees
postseason record by driving in six runs as  New York  defeated
the Detroit Tigers 9-3 in the opener of their American League
Division Series.  The  Texas Rangers  defeated the  Tampa Bay Rays  to even the
other AL Division Series at one game apiece. In the National
League, the  Philadelphia Phillies  beat the St. Louis Cardinals
11-6 and the  Milwaukee Brewers  topped the Arizona Diamondbacks
4-1 in the opening games of their playoff series.  At Yankee Stadium, Cano hit a grand slam and added two run-
scoring doubles for the Yankees, who were tied 1-1 with Detroit
midway through the second inning when the game was suspended by
rain on Sept. 30. His six RBIs tied a franchise postseason
record held by Hideki Matsui (Nov. 4, 2009), Bernie Williams
(Oct. 5, 1999) and Bobby Richardson (Oct. 8, 1960).  “I wasn’t looking for a home run, just looking for a pitch
that I can make good contact and get an RBI,” Cano said in a
televised postgame interview.  Ivan Nova allowed two runs on four hits and struck out five
in 6 1/3 innings in relief of CC Sabathia, who threw the first
two innings before the game was stopped two nights ago. Nova, a
rookie, hasn’t lost a game since June 3.  Nova Stays Composed  “I have a lot of confidence in him,”  Brett Gardner , who
scored a run and drove in two, said in a televised interview.
“He maintains his composure out on the mound.”  The Yankees and Tigers play Game 2 today at Yankee Stadium
before moving to  Detroit  for Game 3 tomorrow.  At Rangers Ballpark in Arlington,  Texas , the Rays took a 3-
0 lead in the top of the fourth inning when B.J. Upton scored on
a bases-loaded walk and Matt Joyce hit a two-run homer.  The Rangers responded with five runs in the bottom of the
fourth as  Adrian Beltre  was hit by a pitch with the bases
loaded; Mike Napoli hit a two-run-single; Beltre scored on a
wild pitch, and Napoli crossed home plate on Mitch Moreland’s
groundout.  Ian Kinsler  hit a two-run double in the sixth for a 7-3
lead before Tampa Bay’s Evan Longoria hit a three-run homer to
bring the Rays within one. Moreland then gave the Rangers a two-
run cushion in the eighth with a home run.  “We’re going to their place now and we want to carry a
little momentum,” Moreland said.  Game 3 is scheduled tomorrow in  St. Petersburg ,  Florida .  Phillies Win  At Citizens Bank Park in Philadelphia, Ryan Howard hit a
three-run homer and Raul Ibanez added a two-run shot in the
Phillies’ sixth inning, taking the lead from the Cardinals, who
scored three runs in the first on Lance Berkman’s homer off  Roy Halladay .  After the Phillies built an 11-3 lead, the Cardinals scored
three times in the ninth on a single by Adron Chambers and a
two-run double by Skip Schumaker.  Halladay pitched eight innings, striking out eight while
giving up three hits and three runs for the Phillies, owners of
 Major League Baseball ’s best regular-season record at 102-60.  “Well, it’s not good to be down 0-1, but when you’re the
visiting team the goal is to try to win one of the two games
here and then go back home and see what happens,” Berkman said.  The Cardinals play again at Philadelphia today in Game 2.  Brewers Win  At Miller Park in  Milwaukee , Yovani Gallardo struck out
nine and held the Diamondbacks to four hits and one run in eight
innings. Reliever John Axford pitched a perfect ninth inning.  Jerry Hairston Jr. started the scoring for the Brewers in
the fourth inning, sending home Ryan Braun with a sacrifice fly.
Jonathan Lucroy hit a run-scoring single in the sixth inning and
Prince Fielder completed the Brewers’ scoring with a two-run
homer off starter Ian Kennedy in the seventh at Miller Park in
Milwaukee.  Braun had three hits and threw out a runner at the plate
for the Brewers.  “If your stars don’t produce, you’re putting a lot of
pressure on everybody else to try to pick it up. That’s not how
we rolled this year,” Brewers manager Ron Roenicke told
reporters. “We rolled because Brauny and Prince did their thing
and everybody else fit in well with either getting on base for
them or contributing down in the bottom of the order.”  Ryan Roberts accounted for the Diamondbacks’ only run with
a solo homer to center in the eighth inning.  The Brewers host the Diamondbacks in Game 2 today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  