-- 
Canada Dollar Monthly Drop Is Largest in Almost 3 Years on Economic Woes

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-10-01T04:00:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-01/canada-dollar-drop-is-largest-in-almost-three-years-on-economy.html
Canada ’s dollar depreciated by the
most since October 2008 as concern the global economy is sinking
back into recession spurred a haven rally in the U.S. currency
and dimmed the outlook for commodity prices.  The currency registered weekly and quarterly losses as
volatility increased on speculation European officials haven’t
contained the region’s debt crisis as the prospect of a Greek
default looms. An Oct. 7 government report may show that
Canadian  job creation  is slowing.  “There’s a paranoia in the market,” said Aaron Fennell, a
futures specialist at Bank of Nova Scotia’s ScotiaMcLeod unit,
by phone yesterday from Toronto. “Traders are waiting to see
what happens in  Greece . That’s undermined commodity prices, and
it’s caused a flight to cash, that’s usually U.S. cash, which
pushes up the  U.S. dollar  and brings down the Canadian dollar.”  The Canadian currency ended yesterday at C$1.0503 per U.S.
dollar in Toronto, down 2.2 percent on the week, 7.4 percent on
the month and 9 percent on the quarter. It touched C$1.0504
yesterday, the weakest since Sept. 8, 2010. One Canadian dollar
buys 95.21 U.S. cents.  The loonie, as Canada’s dollar is known for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, advanced to a three-year high
of 94.07 cents on July 29 before plunging along with other risk-
related assets as investors, concerned that a potential Greek
default may spark a run on European banks and send the global
economy into another recession, took refuge in the U.S. dollar
and the yen.  Parity Play  “I don’t think we’re going to spend much time above parity
for the rest of this year,” Fennel said, referring to the
Canadian dollar trading on a one-for-one basis with the U.S.
currency. “Until we actually have a resolution in  Europe , then
we really have this big huge unknown in the marketplace.”  Options trading showed further losses in the currency may
be imminent. The premium charged for the right to buy the U.S.
dollar versus the Canadian dollar in three months over contracts
to sell reached a record 4.235 percentage points yesterday, so
called risk-reversal rates show.  Volatility in the U.S. dollar versus its Canadian
counterpart remained elevated. One-month implied volatility on
the  currency pair  ended yesterday at 14.5 percent, after
climbing Sept. 22 to 16 percent, the highest since May 2010. It
was 10.1 percent on Aug. 31. Implied volatility, which traders
quote and use to set option prices, signals the expected pace of
swings in the underlying currency.  Bonds Drop  Government bonds  fell this week, pushing the 10-year note’s
yield higher by eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to
2.15 percent. Yields climbed for five straight days after
dropping to a record low 1.994 percent on Sept. 23. The price of
the 3.25 percent security maturing in June 2021 dropped 74 cents
to C$109.53.  Canada’s government bonds have returned 7.5 percent this
year, according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index.  Gross domestic product rose 0.3 percent to C$1.26 trillion
($1.2 trillion) in July on a seasonally adjusted basis, matching
the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey with 23 responses,
Statistics Canada said yesterday.  The first monthly report on output for the third quarter
suggested the economy has resumed growth after shrinking in the
April-to-June period. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg last
month predict a third-quarter annualized growth rate of 2
percent, averting a recession.  Jobs Gains  Canadian employers added 15,000 jobs in September after
cutting 5,500 positions in August, according to the median of 23
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That would mean employers added
16,500 jobs in the third quarter, compared with 109,000 in the
second quarter and 82,800 in the first three months of the year.
 Statistics Canada  is due to report the employment data on Oct. 7
at 7 a.m. in Ottawa.  Canada’s federal budget deficit more than tripled in July,
widening during the month to C$1.6 billion, from C$473 million a
year earlier on falling revenue from corporate and sales taxes,
according to a statement released yesterday by Canada’s finance
department. Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  has said the
government’s fiscal projections for the current year remain
consistent with forecasts even amid indications the economy has
slowed.  Crude oil, Canada’s largest export, posted its largest
quarterly decline in New York since the 2008 financial crisis,
17 percent, as signs of slowing growth in  China , the U.S. and
 Germany  heightened concerns that fuel demand will suffer. Crude
for November delivery on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange fell
1.5 percent this week to $78.75 a barrel.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index retreated 2.5 percent and
finished with the biggest quarterly drop since 2008. Equity
losses forced portfolio managers to sell the Canadian dollar to
buy greenbacks for monthly rebalancing of portfolios, according
to  Shane Enright  at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce.  “Month-end flows are dominating,” said Enright,  executive
director  at the bank’s  CIBC World Markets  in Toronto, by e-mail
yesterday. “Also quarter-end, which compounds the volatility.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax, Nova Scotia at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  