-- 
China’s Manufacturing Index Rises for Second Month on New Export Orders

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-01T01:23:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-01/china-s-manufacturing-index-rises-for-second-month-on-new-export-orders.html
A Chinese manufacturing index
advanced for the second month in September, driven by an
increase in new export orders.  The Purchasing Managers’ Index was at 51.2, compared with
50.9 in August, the  China  Federation of Logistics and Purchasing
said in a statement today. The median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey of 13 economists was for a reading of 51.1. A level
above 50 indicates expansion.  Today’s report suggests the world’s second-largest economy
is maintaining momentum amid a campaign by Premier  Wen Jiabao  to
cool inflation that’s included higher  interest rates , lending
curbs and home-purchase limits. Heightened risks of recession in
the U.S. and euro area economies may hurt export growth and
limit the scope for further tightening even as the government
remains focused on stabilizing prices.  “It’s very clear that growth will slow down,” said Shen Jianguang, chief Greater China economist for Mizuho Securities
Asia Ltd. “That’s actually what is desired by the government as
it wants to control inflation,” said, Shen, who has worked for
institutions including the  International Monetary Fund  and
 European Central Bank .  The manufacturing index compiled by the logistics
federation and National Bureau of Statistics is based on a
survey of purchasing managers in more than 820 companies in 20
industries.  The federation’s PMI hasn’t fallen below 50 since February
2009. In contrast, a separate manufacturing index released
yesterday by HSBC Holdings Plc and  Markit Economics  indicated a
third straight month of contraction.  HSBC PMI  HSBC’s index, which reflects a survey of more than 400
companies, is weighted toward small businesses that have been
hit harder by the government’s tightening measures, according to
economists including Bank of America Corp.’s Lu Ting and
Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.’s Liu Li-Gang. The
official PMI, compiled from questions to more than 800 companies
in 20 industries, has a greater focus on larger enterprises,
they say.  China’s benchmark Shanghai Composite Index fell to its
lowest close since April 2009 yesterday on concerns that the
nation’s growth is slowing while  Greece  may default on its debt.
The gauge sank 15 percent in the July-to-September period, the
biggest loss since the second quarter of 2010.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  