-- 
China’s Manufacturing Index Rises to Four-Month High on Jump in Exports

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-01T16:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-01/china-s-manufacturing-index-rises-to-four-month-high-on-jump-in-exports.html
A Chinese manufacturing index
advanced for a second month in September, as a measure of new
export orders rebounded to the highest level since May.  The Purchasing Managers’ Index was at 51.2, compared with
50.9 in August, the  China  Federation of Logistics and Purchasing
said in a statement yesterday. The median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of 13 economists was for a reading of 51.1.
A level above 50 indicates expansion.  September’s manufacturing reading, the highest in four
months, suggests the world’s second-largest economy is
weathering Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s campaign against inflation that
has included higher interest rates, lending curbs and home-
purchase limits. Room for further tightening may be limited by a
heightened risk of recession in the U.S. and euro-area economies
and the impact of that on Chinese exports.  “The PMI should be relatively positive for the market,
which is increasingly receptive to overly bearish calls,” said
Lu Ting, a Hong Kong-based economist at Bank of America Merrill
Lynch. “China’s growth is slowing at a gradual pace,” he said.
“A hard landing is of small probability.”  The manufacturing index compiled by the logistics
federation and National Bureau of Statistics is based on a
survey of purchasing managers in more than 820 companies in 20
industries. It hasn’t fallen below 50 since February 2009.  In contrast, a separate manufacturing index released Sept.
30 by HSBC Holdings Plc and  Markit Economics  indicated a third
straight month of contraction. The reading of 49.9 was unchanged
from August and higher than the preliminary figure of 49.4.  HSBC PMI  HSBC’s index, which reflects a survey of more than 400
companies, is weighted toward small businesses that have been
hit harder by the government’s tightening measures, according to
economists including Merrill Lynch’s Lu and  Australia  and New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd.’s Liu Li-Gang. The official PMI has a
greater focus on larger enterprises, they say.  China’s benchmark Shanghai Composite Index fell on Sept. 30
to its lowest close since April 2009 on concerns that the
nation’s growth is slowing and  Greece  may default on its debt.
The gauge sank 15 percent in the July-to-September period, the
biggest drop since the second quarter of 2010. Chinese markets
are closed next week for the National Day holiday.  The data released yesterday by the logistics federation and
statistics bureau showed that the measure of new export orders
climbed to 50.9 from 48.3 in August. A gauge of input prices
declined to 56.6 from 57.2 and the employment index gained to 51,
the highest level since April.  ‘Good News’  “Good news is that export orders rebounded to above 50 and
the input price index declined,” said Shen Jianguang, chief
Greater China economist for Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. Economic
growth may slow to 9 percent on year in the third quarter, with
the possibility of a “hard landing” still “unlikely,” said
Shen, who previously worked for institutions including the
 International Monetary Fund  and the  European Central Bank .  Fifty-nine percent of respondents in the quarterly
Bloomberg Global Poll of investors, analysts and traders who are
Bloomberg subscribers said economic growth in China may decline
to less than 5 percent annually by 2016. Growth was 9.5 percent
in the second quarter.  Premier Wen, speaking at a banquet Sept. 30 in Beijing
marking the weeklong National Day holiday that celebrates the
start of Communist rule in China in 1949, said that relatively
fast increases in consumer prices have been controlled. The
government aims to keep prices basically stable and to further
implement property control measures and policies for the
construction of social housing projects, he said.  No Policy Easing  Merrill Lynch’s Lu said China has “no reason” to ease
monetary policy at the moment. Inflation in China rose to a
three-year high of 6.5 percent in July before moderating in
August to 6.2 percent. The People’s Bank of China has raised
 interest rates  five times and increased the reserve requirement
nine times in the past 12 months.  The statistics bureau is scheduled to release inflation
data for September on Oct. 14 and gross domestic product figures
for the third quarter on Oct. 18.  China should be prepared for “the worst of a eurozone
crisis,” which could cause a “hard landing” in the nation, Lu
said. The financial woes in  Europe  and the U.S. may also result
in a lower reading for new export orders in October after the
“surprise” level see in September, he said.  “The headwinds in the global economy will be felt by
China’s exporters in the coming months,” Lu said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  