-- 
China Manufacturing Index Rises for Second Month on Exports

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-01T03:46:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-01/china-manufacturing-index-reaches-51-2-in-september-rising-from-august.html
A Chinese manufacturing index
advanced for the second month in September, driven by an
increase in new export orders.  The Purchasing Managers’ Index was at 51.2, compared with
50.9 in August, the China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing
said in a statement today. The median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey of 13 economists was for a reading of 51.1. A level
above 50 indicates expansion.  Today’s report suggests the world’s second-largest economy
is weathering Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s campaign to cool inflation
that has included higher  interest rates , lending curbs and home-
purchase limits. Room for further tightening may be limited by a
heightened risk of recession in the U.S. and euro-area economies
and the impact of that on Chinese exports.  “September’s PMI should provide some support to global
investor confidence, if only at the margin,” said Alistair
Thornton, a Beijing-based economist at IHS Global Insight. “It
is clear that despite the policy-driven slowdown and weakening
eternal climate, there remains significant momentum in the
economy.”  The manufacturing index compiled by the logistics
federation and National Bureau of Statistics is based on a
survey of purchasing managers in more than 820 companies in 20
industries. It hasn’t fallen below 50 since February 2009.  In contrast, a separate manufacturing index released
yesterday by HSBC Holdings Plc and  Markit Economics  indicated a
third straight month of contraction.  HSBC PMI  HSBC’s index, which reflects a survey of more than 400
companies, is weighted toward small businesses that have been
hit harder by the government’s tightening measures, according to
economists including Bank of America Corp.’s Lu Ting and
 Australia  and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.’s Liu Li-Gang. The
official PMI has a greater focus on larger enterprises, they
say.  China’s benchmark Shanghai Composite Index fell yesterday
to its lowest close since April 2009 on concerns that the
nation’s growth is slowing and  Greece  may default on its debt.
The gauge sank 15 percent in the July-to-September period, the
biggest drop since the second quarter of 2010.  Fifty-nine percent of respondents in the quarterly
Bloomberg Global Poll of investors, analysts and traders who are
Bloomberg subscribers said economic growth in  China  may decline
to less than 5 percent annually by 2016. Growth was 9.5 percent
in the second quarter.  Input Prices  The data released today by the logistics federation and
statistics bureau showed that the measure of new export orders
climbed to 50.9 from 48.3 in August. A gauge of input prices
declined to 56.6 from 57.2.  “Good news is that export orders rebounded to above 50 and
the input price index declined,” said Shen Jianguang, chief
Greater China economist for Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. Economic
growth may slow to 9 percent on year in the third quarter, with
the possibility of a “hard landing” still “unlikely,” said
Sheng, who has also worked for institutions including the
 International Monetary Fund  and the  European Central Bank .  Premier Wen, speaking at a banquet late yesterday in
Beijing marking the weeklong National Day holiday that
celebrates the start of Communist rule in China six decades ago,
said the relatively fast increases in the nation’s consumer
prices had been controlled. The government aims to keep consumer
prices basically stable and to further implement property
control measures and policies for the construction of social
housing projects, he said.  Inflation in China rose to a three-year high in July before
moderating in August. The People’s Bank of China has raised
interest rates five times and increased the reserve requirement
nine times in the past 12 months to rein in consumer prices.  The statistics bureau is scheduled to release inflation
data for September on Oct. 14 and gross domestic product figures
for the third quarter on Oct. 18.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  