-- 
China Calls for Internet Crackdown After ‘Prostitute Diary’ Shut

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-01T00:35:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-01/china-calls-for-internet-crackdown-after-prostitute-diary-blog-is-shut.html
China ’s government told its 500
million  Internet users  to stop spreading “malignant tumors”
online or face punishment, the official Xinhua News Agency
reported, citing a Cabinet spokesman it didn’t name.  Users in China must “abide by the law, show self-
discipline and refrain from spreading rumors,” the spokesman
for the State Council’s State Internet Information Office said,
according to Xinhua.  He criticized a so-called prostitute diary on Sina Corp.’s
Weibo microblog that was allegedly written by a 31-year-old man,
who made up stories about working as a 22-year-old prostitute in
Hangzhou, a city in eastern China’s Zhejiang province, Xinhua
said. It attracted more than 250,000 users, Xinhua said.  China’s leaders are grappling with how to manage Twitter-
like online microblogs that spread information difficult for
government censors to control. Several members of the ruling
Communist Party’s Politburo have visited Internet companies in
recent weeks in the wake of a deadly train crash in July. Online
commentators criticized the government’s handling of the case
and spread commentary and photos of the accident at odds with
the official government line.  Xinhua, citing the spokesman, said local authorities and
websites should hold people who “spread rumors” accountable
and “penalize them according to the law.”  China had 195 million microbloggers at the end of June, a
209 percent increase from the end of 2010, Xinhua reported,
citing the  China Internet Network Information Center .  The total number of Internet users in the country is
greater than the populations of all but two countries: India and
China itself.  Chinese Internet stocks tumbled in  New York  trading
yesterday after a top U.S. securities regulator said the
 Department of Justice  is reviewing allegations of accounting
fraud at firms operating out of the Asian nation.  Sina’s shares slid to an eight-month low of $71.61
yesterday in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  