-- 
Euro Slumps in Third Quarter as Debt Crisis, Slowing Economy Damp Demand

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-10-01T04:00:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-01/euro-slumps-in-3rd-quarter-as-crisis-slow-economy-damp-demand.html
The euro had its worst quarter
against the dollar and the yen in more than a year as concern
increased European leaders won’t be able to contain the region’s
debt crisis and  Greece  may default on its debt.  The 17-nation currency slumped against the dollar even as
 Standard & Poor’s  cut its  U.S. debt  rating and as the  Federal
Reserve  set further economic stimulus. The yen rose against all
of its 16 major counterparts as the global economy slowed and
investors sought refuge. The Swiss franc pared a gain against
the euro after the nation’s central bank imposed a currency
ceiling. One in four economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast
the  European Central Bank  will cut interest rates in five days.  “The twin stories driving the markets are still the
European debt crisis and fears of a global economic downturn,”
said  Vassili Serebriakov , a currency strategist at  Wells Fargo &
Co . in  New York . “All signs are still that the markets are very
cautious and risk-averse and that’s helping the dollar and other
safe-haven currencies.”  The euro dropped 7.7 percent to $1.3387, from $1.4502 on
June 30. The shared currency weakened 11.7 percent to 103.12
yen, from 116.84, and touched 101.94 on Sept. 26, the weakest
level since June 2001. The dollar dropped 4.3 percent to 77.06
yen, from 80.56 last quarter.  Euro Pact  An agreement in July by euro area leaders to expand the
role of the European Financial Stability Facility and provide a
second bailout for Greece failed to allay investor concern that
the region’s crisis would spread.  The European Commission this week opposed ideas being
floated by some government officials to get banks to accept
bigger so-called haircuts on Greek debt holdings and doesn’t
want to have talks about any such attempt, an official said this
week on condition of anonymity because the deliberations are
private.  The ECB was forced to start buying the bonds of Italy and
 Spain  in August in an effort to stabilize the nations’ borrowing
costs. The central bank is also lending dollars to euro-area
banks, in coordination with the Fed and other central banks, to
curb liquidity concern.  The dollar rallied against all the major currencies except
for the yen. Demand for the U.S. currency increased after S&P
cut its rating on U.S. debt to AA+ from AAA Aug. 5, causing
stock markets to gyrate and investors to flock to the safety of
Treasuries.  Twist Away  The Fed announced in Sept. 21 it will increase holdings of
longer-maturity Treasuries, in a move known as Operation Twist,
to limit borrowing costs and boost economic growth and jobs
creation.  Yields on U.S. benchmark 10-year notes reached a record low
of 1.6714 percent on Sept. 23.  Demand for haven assets pushed the yen to a post-World War
II record of 75.95 against the dollar Aug. 19, even after  Japan 
intervened in the  currency markets  in August for the third time
in the past 12 months.  The franc dropped for a second month against the euro in
September after the  Swiss National Bank  on Sept. 6 imposed a
ceiling of 1.20 versus the euro and resumed purchases of foreign
currencies to protect exports as the European debt crisis drove
investors toward the relative safety of the Swiss currency. The
franc had rallied 13 percent against the single currency this
year before the ceiling was announced.  Franc Moves  The franc rose 0.3 percent to 1.2157 per euro in the third
quarter and weakened 2.6 percent in September. It dropped 8.1
percent to 90.82 centimes per dollar.  Growth-linked currencies slumped in the third quarter as
the global economy slowed. The Brazilian real, South African
rand and Mexican peso each weakened more than 15 percent against
the dollar since June.  The  International Monetary Fund  said Sept. 20 that the
world’s largest economy will expand 1.5 percent this year, down
from the 2.5 percent projected in June and lowered its forecast
for 2012, citing unresolved debt-reduction and waning confidence
among consumers and businesses.  “There’s been concerns about global growth and then you’ve
got the euro zone’s long-running debt crisis,” said  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst in  Washington  at Travelex Global
Business Payments, a currency-exchange network. “Any type of
concern for the outlook of the global economy tends to lead
investors to higher ground in the dollar and Japanese yen.”  Brazil Rates  The real dropped as the nation’s central bank unexpectedly
cut its benchmark  interest rate  on Aug. 31 to 12 percent from
12.5 percent, citing a “substantial deterioration” in the
global economy. The Brazilian government also imposed a tax on
some investments in foreign-exchange derivatives in a bid to
stem the currency’s rally. The real rallied 20 percent in the
two years through July.  The Brazilian currency fell 20.2 percent to 1.8794 per
dollar, from 1.5633 in the second quarter. South Africa’s rand
lost 19.6 percent to 8.0967 per dollar, from 6.7693, and
Mexico’s peso fell 18.6 percent versus the greenback to 13.8973.  New Zealand’s dollar dropped the most in the past three
months since the last quarter of 2008, when the financial crisis
roiled global markets. S&P and Fitch Ratings downgraded the
nation’s credit rating this week, both citing concern that the
government and household debt is expanding.  The kiwi, as the currency is known, weakened 8.2 percent to
76.14 cents per  U.S. dollar , from 82.92 in the second quarter.  The ECB may cut its benchmark interest rate by at least a
quarter-percentage point from the current rate of 1.5 percent at
its Oct. 6 policy meeting, according to eight of 32 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. The others expect no change.  The central bank has increased its lending rate by 0.5
percentage points twice this year in an effort to curb
inflation. The meeting next week will be the last for President
Jean-Claude Trichet. Bank of  Italy  Governor  Mario Draghi  will
succeed him.  “The European economy has slowed, but it’s not enough to
justify another easing,” said  Richard Franulovich , a senior
currency strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in New York. “A
steady hand from the ECB will probably help the euro a little
bit next week, but it’ll only be a temporary respite from a
lively, very sharp fall.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  