-- 
Freeport, Workers Fail to Resume Talks as Pay Offer Rejected

-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 
2011-10-01T04:21:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-01/freeport-copper-mine-workers-fail-to-resume-talks-as-pay-offer-rejected.html
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) 
and its labor union in  Indonesia  failed to resume talks to end a
strike at the company’s Grasberg mine in Papua as workers turned
down a government-proposed salary increase.  Freeport’s condition for talks to resume was for workers to
accept the government’s offer, Virgo Solossa, head of
organizational affairs at the labor union, said by telephone
today. The government proposed a 25 percent salary increase,
compared with Freeport’s offer of 22 percent, Solossa said.
Ramdani Sirait, a Jakarta-based spokesman at Freeport, didn’t
return two calls to his mobile phone.  “Under the labor law, the salary structure should be based
on inflation or the ability and condition of the company,”
Solossa said. “The government refers to the  mining industry  to
maintain the average rate, and that’s not what the law says.”  Workers in  Peru ,  Chile , Bolivia and Indonesia have gone on
strike at copper, gold and zinc mines this year, seeking
improved conditions and a bigger slice of record profits after
metal prices more than doubled since the end of 2008. The strike
at Grasberg, which has the world’s largest recoverable reserves
of copper, has raised concern it may widen a global metal
deficit and boost prices.  About 8,000 employees, or 70 percent of the Freeport
workforce at Grasberg, started a stoppage on Sept. 15. The
workers initially sought a raise to $35 to $200 an hour from the
current $1.50 to $3.50. Freeport offered a compensation package
that includes basic payment increase of 22 percent over a two-
year period, Freeport’s Sirait said Sept. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  