-- 
German Bond Yields Rise Most in 3 Months Amid Rescue Optimism

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-10-01T06:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-01/german-bond-yields-rise-most-in-3-months-amid-rescue-optimism.html
German benchmark  government bonds 
posted the biggest weekly decline in three months as European
officials stepped up their response to the region’s debt crisis.  Bund yields climbed from near record lows as fourteen of
the 17 euro nations approved expanded powers for the region’s
rescue fund, the European Financial Stability Facility, after
increased pressure from global leaders and investors. Spanish
and Italian bond yields slid even as the  European Central Bank 
was said to scale back government bond purchases.  The rise in yields is partly “due to signs that the policy
makers are making some progress,” said Elwin de Groot, a senior
market economist at Rabobank Nederland in Utrecht. “There’s
still a long way to go but we are at least seeing some
progress.”  German 10-year yields climbed 14 basis points in the week
to 1.89 percent at 5:06 p.m. in  London  yesterday. They dropped
to a record low 1.636 percent on Sept. 23. Two-year rates rose
16 basis points to 0.55 percent.  The borrowing costs of  Italy , Ireland,  Spain ,  Portugal  and
 Greece  all declined in the week as the euro region’s governments
moved to boost the EFSF’s firepower to curb the debt crisis.
Policy makers “finally get it,” Pacific Investment Management
Co.’s Chief Executive Officer Mohamed A. El-Erian said in a
Bloomberg Radio interview on Sept. 27.  Austria  yesterday became the latest country to authorize
the expanded powers for the fund. The countries yet to ratify
the changes are Malta, the Netherlands and Slovakia.  ‘Silly Levels’  Italian 10-year yields slid nine basis points to 5.54
percent and the yield on Spanish debt of a similar maturity fell
eight basis points to 5.13 percent. Portuguese 10-year yields
plunged 86 basis points to 10.95, while the Greek yield dropped
97 basis points to 22.66 percent.  “We just say stay long bunds up until the point at which
you think the periphery is fixed and we think the market’s hopes
will be disappointed on that, therefore you could get to some
very silly levels in 10-year bunds,” said  Harvinder Sian ,
senior interest rate strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc. “If the crisis gets much worse I can see bund yields below
1 percent.”  European Central Bank policy makers meet on Oct 6. in a
week that sees French, German and Spanish debt sales. Traders
are betting the ECB will cut rates by 41 basis points over the
next 12 months, a Credit Suisse Group AG index based on swaps
shows.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Johannesburg at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 