-- 
Icahn Wields $6.5 Million Carrot, $600,000 Stick to Keep Manager

-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 
2011-10-01T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-01/icahn-wields-6-5-million-carrot-600-000-stick-to-keep-manager.html
Billionaire  Carl Icahn , faced with
two executive departures, locked up a third officer with a $6.5
million salary and the threat of having to repay $600,000 should
he hold talks with a rival hedge fund or try to start one.  Vincent Intrieri, who has worked for Icahn since 1998, will
oversee the financier’s operating companies and help manage his
investments, according to a copy of the employment contract
filed yesterday with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. He provided similar services under a previous
agreement with Icahn’s New York-based holding company,  Icahn
Enterprises LP (IEP) , that was set to expire at the end of this year.  A former distressed-debt specialist at Elliott Associates
LP, the New York hedge fund run by  Paul Singer , Intrieri was one
of at least three Icahn executives who participated in the fees
and profits generated by the financier’s hedge fund. One of
those officers left last year to start his own hedge fund and
another is considering doing so, prompting Icahn to seek ways to
keep a tighter hold on talent.  “I can’t stand in their way,” Icahn, 75, said yesterday
in a telephone interview. “But I want to know the employee is
not going to spend half his time thinking about how he can start
his own hedge fund.”  Keith Meister, who was vice chairman and principal
executive officer, departed in August 2010 to start Corvex
Management LP, a hedge fund that raised $250 million from a
single investor, identified by the New York Times as billionaire
 George Soros . Alex Denner, a former Morgan Stanley portfolio
manager who joined Icahn in 2006 to invest in health-care
companies, may leave to start his own fund, people with
knowledge of the plan said last month.  Extension Terms  Under his new contract, Intrieri’s salary will jump to $7.5
million should the agreement be extended beyond its current
expiration date of Dec. 31, 2013. He will also get a bonus of as
much as $937,500 by Oct. 10, the filing says.  Intrieri can’t “seek, negotiate to obtain, solicit,
discuss, arrange for, attempt to arrange for, establish, or
attempt to establish” any employment, consulting or advisory
relationship, an individual proprietorship, venture or any other
activity through which he may obtain compensation, fees, profit
sharing or similar payment, according to the contract. If he
breaches this clause, he must pay Icahn’s firm $600,000 upon
demand, according to the contract.  “I like non-competes,” Icahn said of the terms. “Every
headhunter in the world is calling up our guys all the time.”  $3.28 Million  Since Icahn started his hedge fund in 2004, the firm’s top
executives have received most of their pay by sharing in the
fees and profits generated by the money-management unit.
Intrieri earned $3.28 million in 2010, according to regulatory
filings, under a contract that called for a $400,000 salary and
an annual bonus of as much as $1.25 million.  Icahn said in March he no longer wanted to oversee cash for
clients, citing concerns about the economy and unrest in the
 Middle East . Investors had already withdrawn much of their
capital from his $7 billion fund group, leaving $1.76 billion of
fee-paying assets.  The decision to return outside money was one reason for
revising Intrieri’s contract, Icahn said in the interview, given
that the firm would no longer be earning much in fees.  Intrieri specializes in distressed investing, having served
as the lead partner in the bankruptcy and reorganization group
at the Chicago office of the accounting firm Arthur Andersen LLP
before its collapse. Bankruptcy investing has been a big source
of profits for Icahn, the billionaire said.  “He is my right-hand guy,” Icahn said. “He has done a
hell of a job.”  Intrieri, who didn’t return a telephone call seeking
comment, received an undergraduate degree in accounting from
 Pennsylvania State University  in 1984.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  