-- 
Italian President Sees No Room for Democratic Secession, ‘Grotesque’ State

-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 
2011-10-01T13:33:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-01/italian-president-sees-no-room-for-democratic-secession-grotesque-state.html
Italian President Giorgio Napolitano
said secession advocated by the governing  Northern League 
coalition party would violate the constitution, recalling the
imprisonment of a Sicilian separatist leader in the 1940s.  “Within the constitution and laws, there is no room for a
democratic path to secession,” Napolitano said late yesterday
in Naples in remarks broadcast on Sky TG24 television.  While discussions about fiscal federalism are acceptable,
secession is not, the  Corriere della Sera  daily reported, citing
Napolitano. The president pointed to the arrest of Andrea
Finocchiaro Aprile for seeking to orchestrate Sicily’s secession
in the 1940s, according to the report.  Northern League leader Umberto Bossi has made increasingly
explicit calls for the wealthier northern regions to separate
from the rest of  Italy . The League is one of the parties holding
up Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s government, and its
departure from the coalition would cause a collapse.  La Padania , the Northern League’s official newspaper,
responded to Napolitano today with a full, front-page article
saying “I exist and am Padanian,” referring to the alternative
name for Northern Italy that the League often uses.  In the article, Roberto Calderoli, a party member and
minister for legislative simplification, said Napolitano needs
to consider people’s rights to self-determination. The League
has been on Italy’s political scene for more than 20 years and
has always guaranteed democracy, according to the report.  “Padania does not exist,” Napolitano said yesterday,
according to Corriere. He called the formation of a hypothetical
separate Lombard-Venetian state “grotesque.”  The president’s press service wasn’t immediately available
for comment on the weekend.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 