-- 
New Zealand All Blacks Playmaker Dan Carter Ruled Out of Rugby’s World Cup

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-10-02T06:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-01/new-zealand-all-blacks-playmaker-dan-carter-ruled-out-of-rugby-s-world-cup.html
All Blacks fly-half  Dan Carter , the
leading points scorer in Tests, was ruled out of the rest of the
Rugby  World Cup  in  New Zealand  because of a groin injury.  Carter, 29, tore a tendon in his left groin during kicking
practice yesterday, the New Zealand Rugby Union said. Aaron
Cruden replaces Carter in the squad with  Colin Slade  taking over
as first-choice fly-half, coach  Graham Henry  said.  “It’s devastating for Daniel,” Henry said at a news
conference in Wellington. “He’s been a world-class player for a
long time, probably one of the greatest players ever produced by
this country. This was going to be his pinnacle, the  Rugby World
Cup . This has been a major objective of his for a long time.”  The  top-ranked  All Blacks, who next face  Argentina  on Oct.
9 in the quarterfinals in Auckland, will now try to end their
24-year World Cup title drought without their first-choice
playmaker and goal kicker.  Bookmakers including Sportingbet  Australia  eased their odds
of the host nation winning the 20-nation tournament after
Carter’s injury. Sportingbet rates New Zealand the 17-20
favorite ahead of 6-1 chances Australia and South Africa.  “The All Blacks are still the side to beat but they’re
suddenly looking vulnerable following the loss of their game
breaker,” Sportingbet Australia Chief Executive Officer Michael
Sullivan said in a statement. “After looking invincible the
Kiwis now look well and truly beatable.”  Slade Starts  Slade started at fly-half in today’s 79-15 win over  Canada 
before being shifted to wing in the second half to make way for
 Piri Weepu . The 23-year-old Slade, playing his ninth Test, missed
four of his eight conversion attempts and limped out of the game
with 15 minutes remaining.  “I though Colin played pretty well,” Henry said in a
televised post-match interview. “He hadn’t played a lot of
football so that shows. He needs more and more.”  Carter, who has amassed a record 1,250 points in his 85
Tests for New Zealand, was withdrawn from the game yesterday
after injuring his groin and a medical scan last night revealed
the extent of the damage.  “He has had no history whatsoever of groin problems,” All
Blacks team doctor Deb Robinson said. “It just happened totally
out of the blue. The scan, other than the current injury, is
pristine. For a guy who has played that much rugby and done that
much kicking, that’s quite remarkable really.”  Carter will see a specialist early this week to determine
the next course of treatment for him, with surgery a
possibility, Robinson said.  Cruden Call Up  Cruden, a former New Zealand under-20 captain, made his All
Blacks debut last year and has played six Tests.  “I’ve had quite a bit of contact with him over the last
year and I’m impressed with his mentality and his ability,”
Henry said of Cruden, 22. “He’s captained a lot of sides so
he’s got the ability to guide a side around the track.”  Australia and  South Africa , who are both seeking an
unprecedented third world championship, today called up
replacements for injured players.  Winger Lachie Turner and openside flanker  Matt Hodgson  were
added to the Wallabies’ 30-man squad in place of  Drew Mitchell 
and Wycliff Palu, who were both forced out of the tournament
because of hamstring injuries.  The defending champion Springboks chose full-back Zane
Kirchner to replace Frans Steyn, who will return home for
surgery after injuring his left shoulder in South Africa’s 13-5
win over Samoa two days ago.  “I don’t know how the injury happened,” Steyn, who scored
21 points in four games at his second World Cup, said in a
statement. “It was at a ruck when I was cleaning someone out
late in the game. I was enjoying our campaign and the tournament
and to have it ended like this is very disappointing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  