-- 
Nigeria to Battle Infiltration by ‘Violent’ Foreign Groups

-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 
2011-10-01T11:14:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-01/nigeria-to-battle-infiltration-by-violent-foreign-groups-1-.html
Nigeria  will tighten security to
fight a combination of internal threats and “infiltration by
violent groups from outside our borders,” President  Goodluck Jonathan  said in his independence day speech.  “I have put in place a new and reinvigorated national
security strategy to combat the threat to our safety,” he said
today, according to a copy of his speech e-mailed from Abuja,
the capital. “The current incidents of violence and terror, in
parts of the country, will surely be overcome.”  Authorities in  Africa ’s top oil producer blame a militant
Islamic sect, Boko Haram, which draws inspiration from
 Afghanistan ’s Taliban movement, for a surge in bombings and
attacks in the mainly Muslim north and Abuja since last year.
The group claimed responsibility for the Aug. 26 suicide car-
bombing of the United Nations building in Abuja that killed 23
people.  Boko Haram is trained, funded and equipped by foreign
interests, the Nation newspaper reported on Sept. 29, citing
Lieutenant General Azubuike Ihejirika, the chief of army staff.
Border patrols and security checks have been tightened before
the independence celebrations, police and immigration officials
said the same day.  “Securing our peace and stability will ensure economic
growth and prosperity for all,” Jonathan said.  Nigeria’s economy, the second-biggest in sub-Saharan
Africa, following  South Africa , is growing at 7.8 percent, he
said. Africa’s most populous country, with more than 150 million
people, aims to sustain a growth rate of 8 percent in the
“medium term,” Jonathan said.  All four state-owned refineries, with a combined capacity
of 445,000 barrels of oil a day, are being upgraded and three
new ones are being built, he said, without giving details.
Nigerian scientists have developed eight high-yielding varieties
of cocoa that will boost production in the world’s fourth-
biggest producer, he said.  “We shall strive to make this growth, job creating and
inclusive,” Jonathan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  