-- 
Obama Uses Stories of Four Women to Urge Lawmakers to Approve Jobs Program

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-10-01T10:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-01/obama-uses-personal-stories-to-push-lawmakers-on-jobs-program.html
President  Barack Obama  used the
personal stories of four women to make his case for the passage
of his jobs plan, urging Congress to move quickly.  In his weekly radio and  Internet address , Obama said he
sent lawmakers his $447 billion jobs plan three weeks ago, “and
now I want it back.”  He said that every day he receives letters from Americans
“who expect  Washington  to do something about the problems we
face.” Many of them express support for his package of tax and
spending measures which he announced on Sept. 8, Obama said.  He said 16-year-old Georgia student Destiny Wheeler wrote
him that she wants to go to college, even though her family has
little money to pay for it.  “’The American Jobs act gives me hope that I might start
to receive a better education, that one day job opportunities
will be open for me to grasp, and that one day my personal
American Dream will be reached,’” the president read from the
letter.  Another woman, Cathleen Dixon, attached photographs of a
bridge she drives under every day on the way to drop her
children off at their Chicago school.  Dixon “worries about their safety and writes, ‘I am angry
that in this country of vast resources we claim that we cannot
maintain basic infrastructure,” Obama related. “’How can we
ever hope to preserve or regain our stature in this world if we
cannot find the will to protect our people and take care of our
basic needs?’”  Spurring Hiring  Since Sept. 8 the president has traveled across the nation
to promote his plan, aimed at spurring hiring to trim the
nation’s 9.1 percent unemployment rate. Obama said in today’s
address that the plan is “fully paid for” and would benefit
small businesses and help create jobs by keeping teachers
employed and putting construction crews on the job rebuilding
roads, bridges and schools. It would also include a cut in the
 payroll tax .  He asked Republican lawmakers who oppose the bill to offer
alternatives and say exactly what they oppose in his plan.  “Are they against putting teachers and police officers and
firefighters back on the job?” Obama said. “Are they against
hiring construction workers to rebuild our roads and bridges and
schools? Are they against giving tax cuts to virtually every
worker and small business in America?”  Some Democrats are concerned about the plan’s viability.
Senate Majority Whip  Dick Durbin  of Illinois said this week that
he doesn’t think there are enough votes in his chamber to pass
the legislation.  Spending Provisions  The plan contains spending provisions as well, including a
$105 billion infrastructure proposal for school modernization,
transportation projects and rehabilitation of vacant properties.
The administration also is seeking $35 billion in direct aid to
state and local governments to stem layoffs of educators and
emergency personnel.  In the  Republican radio Address , Representative Morgan Griffith of  Virginia  urged Obama to support legislation that
addresses what he called over-regulation by the federal
government.  “With our economy struggling and red tape still piling up,
these nuisances have become full-blown government barriers to
 job creation ,” Griffith said. He said he doesn’t oppose
“reasonable regulations” to protect public safety and the
environment.  Fewer Rules  Two “unreasonable regulations,” Griffith said, would
raise the cost for cement producers and a second would affect
boilers used by thousands of employers. He said the “costly
burdens” the government wants to impose on cement producers
would lead to the shuttering of about 20 percent of U.S. cement
plants.  As for the boiler rules, “these regulations would impose
billions of dollars in new costs, make many goods and services
more expensive and put more than 200,000 jobs at risk,” he said.  Griffith said job losses in businesses that can’t afford to
keep up with the regulations are “irreversible.”  House Republicans  are working on bills that will limit
“excessive regulations that hamper job creation,” he said,
including bipartisan bills addressing the boiler and cement
regulations.  “The government should go back to the drawing board and
come up with a more reasonable approach that protects the public
without imposing unnecessary costs on employers and workers,”
Griffith said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  