-- 
Obama Urges Supporters to Stick With Him at Fundraising Deadline

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-10-01T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-01/obama-urges-supporters-to-stick-with-him-at-fundraising-deadline.html
President  Barack Obama , in a push to
raise money as the deadline for third-quarter campaign
fundraising arrived, told donors he needs their help as much as
ever to reach his goals for the nation.  While a lot has been accomplished, Obama said last night,
“what we haven’t done is change Washington. And we still have
work to do to make sure that this town is working on behalf of
ordinary folks so that they can start once again believing in
the American dream. Because people have lost confidence in the
capacity of folks to look out for them, as opposed to look out
for themselves or their most powerful patrons. And that’s what
2012’s all about.”  Obama addressed about 60 guests at a campaign event at a
private home in Washington with tickets ranging from $10,000 to
$35,800 each. All the Republican presidential hopefuls will
probably trail him in fundraising, including former
Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , who anticipates taking in
between $13 million and $14 million in the third quarter,
according to a person close to the campaign.  Obama raised $86 million for the combined total of his
campaign and the  Democratic National Committee  in the second
quarter. The campaign and party are targeting a combined goal of
$55 million for the third quarter.  The president told the donors his first-term
accomplishments include the repeal of “don’t ask, don’t tell”
and passage of his health-care law. More must be done to help
the middle class, he said, because Republicans want “to
basically allow the most powerful forces in our society to write
their own rules.  Specific Figures  Obama’s campaign spokesman,  Ben LaBolt , declined to comment
on specific fundraising figures for the third quarter that ended
yesterday. The total is still being tallied and may vary
depending on proceeds from New York fundraisers.  Polls show Romney and Texas Governor  Rick Perry  are the
frontrunners for the Republican presidential nomination, and the
so-called money primary may provide momentum for one of their
candidacies.  Ryan Williams, a Romney campaign spokesman, wouldn’t
comment on specific fundraising estimates, saying only that
officials expect to bring in “considerably less” than the $18
million haul from the second quarter.  Because Perry is the governor of a large state, a former
Republican Governors Association chairman and a new candidate,
“we suspect he will lead the Republican field in fundraising
for this quarter,” Williams said in an e-mail.  Perry Goal  Perry will raise at least $10 million, according to a
person close to the campaign; that would put his fundraising
strength near parity with Romney in the third quarter. As Perry
has slipped in polls after being attacked in back-to-back
debates, it remains to be seen if his fundraising operation can
grow in the next quarter.  Another person close to the campaign said Perry was able to
raise the first $10 million fairly easily, much of it from his
home state. The pace began to slow as questions surfaced about
his positions, particularly on immigration, this person said.
The two people spoke on condition of anonymity because the
campaign hasn’t authorized release of fundraising information.  Perry backed a state law that provided discounted, in-state
college tuition to children of illegal immigrants, a stance
widely criticized by his opponents.  Steffen W. Schmidt, a political science professor at  Iowa
State University , said the pressure on Perry to produce a
competitive fundraising sum is heightened by continued
speculation about the presidential intentions of New Jersey
Republican Governor  Chris Christie .  ‘Christie Fever’  “Perry needs to squash ‘Christie fever,’” he said. “It
is a killer for Perry, that even with him in the race, the GOP
is still looking. If I was a Republican fat cat, I would sit on
my political money until the dust settles.”  Texas Representative  Ron Paul , another Republican contender,
raised more than $5 million in the period, said Campaign
Chairman Jesse Benton in an interview. That tops the $4.5
million Paul brought in last quarter.  Herman Cain , a businessman who beat Perry in the Sept. 24
straw poll in Florida, sent out a tweet yesterday declaring his
“best fundraising week....ever! Thank You! Let’s finish Q3
strong!” Cain raised almost $2.5 million in the second quarter,
which ended June 30. His campaign couldn’t be reached for
comment.  Representative  Michele Bachmann  of Minnesota also sent out
a fundraising appeal, urging her supporters to send money to
prove she is a viable candidate.  Washington  ‘Elite’  “The Washington ‘elite’ are chomping at the bit to see the
numbers our campaign reports,” she wrote. “I need your support
today more than ever.”  Former Utah Governor  Jon Huntsman , who has struggled with
fundraising and in the polls, donated $500,000 to his campaign
during the quarter. His campaign this week also shuttered its
Orlando, Florida, headquarters to save money and invest more in
 New Hampshire . Huntsman has said a strong performance in New
Hampshire’s first-in-the-nation primary is critical to his
presidential aspirations.  “New Hampshire’s always been our top priority,” said Tom
Miller, Huntsman’s spokesman. “We need to be successful in New
Hampshire to make sure we have a head of steam to compete
successfully” elsewhere. The decision to leave  Florida  reflects
“recent poll numbers showing movement in New Hampshire, and the
fact that we wanted to reallocate our resources to take
advantage of that,” he said.  Buffett Headliner  Donors to the Obama campaign gathered last night at a
private event in New York hosted by billionaire  Warren Buffett ,
81, the chairman and chief executive officer of Berkshire
Hathaway Inc.  The Buffett event at the Four Seasons restaurant featured
an economic discussion led by  Austan Goolsbee , a former Obama
economic adviser now at the University of Chicago Booth School
of Business. The event was sold out, with about 100 people
attending the $10,000-a-ticket session.  Romney has raised more than twice as much money from  Wall
Street  as Obama, an edge gained in part by luring away at least
100 donors, mostly investors, who backed the president in 2008,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In 2008, Obama received $15 million from employees in the
securities and investment industry, more than any other
candidate, according to the center. Romney received $5 million.
Some donors who gave to Obama during his 2008 race also gave to
Romney or other Republicans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 Kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  