-- 
Peru Inflation Accelerates in September as Fuel Prices Rise

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-10-01T14:36:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-01/peru-inflation-accelerates-in-september-as-fuel-prices-rise-2-.html
Peruvian consumer prices rose more
than expected last month as climbing fuel prices offset a drop
in the cost of food.  Consumer price growth accelerated to 0.33 percent in
September from 0.27 percent in August, according to a statement
published today in El Peruano, the official gazette. The median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 12 analysts was for a
0.26 percent increase. Annual inflation accelerated to a two-
year high of 3.73 percent from 3.35 percent.  Higher food and energy prices in the first half of the year
pushed the South American country’s monthly inflation rate to a
three-year high of 0.79 percent in July. An average 5 percent
increase in fuel prices will be phased in over two months, the
government said Aug. 25. The monthly inflation rate may slow to
close to zero before year-end as food prices reverse earlier
gains, central bank President Julio Velarde said Sept. 16.  “Inflation would have been lower had it not been for the
fuel price adjustment,” said  Mario Guerrero , an economist at
Scotiabank Peru SA in  Lima . “Soybean, wheat and corn have been
falling in the international market, while better weather has
boosted the supply of local farm produce, leading to lower food
prices.”  Gasoline Prices Up  Gasoline prices increased 2.1 percent last month, bus fares
climbed 1.4 percent and residential electricity costs rose 1.1
percent, the national statistics agency said in an e-mailed
report. Chicken declined 1.1 percent and vegetables fell 1.6
percent.  Peru is a net importer of crude oil, soybeans, corn and
wheat. Food and drink products constitute 38 percent of the
 consumer price index .  The central bank kept its benchmark lending rate unchanged
at 4.25 percent for a fourth month on Sept. 8, citing slower
domestic and global growth. Policy makers next meet Oct. 6. The
bank targets annual inflation of 1 percent to 3 percent.  The sol weakened 0.1 percent last week, closing at 2.7725
per dollar yesterday from 2.7690 on Sept. 23.  Peru’s mining production rose for the first time in three
months in August and fishing output surged, the statistics
agency said in a separate report today. Mining rose 2.3 percent
from a year earlier and fishing climbed 83 percent. A pick-up in
construction activity fueled a 7.3 percent increase in cement
demand, the first increase in three months, while electricity
output rose 9.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 