-- 
Pound Advances Versus Euro on European Debt Concerns; Gilts Fall

-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 
2011-10-01T06:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-01/pound-advances-versus-euro-on-european-debt-concerns-gilts-fall.html
The pound strengthened for a second
straight week against the euro as concern European policy makers
will fail to resolve the region’s sovereign debt crisis spurred
demand for the perceived safety of the British currency.  Sterling gained against all but one of its 16 major peers
tracked by Bloomberg this week amid uncertainty over whether
 Greece  will receive its next round of emergency loans. The pound
strengthened for the first time in six weeks against the dollar,
snapping its longest losing streak in more than a year. U.K
government bonds fell. The  Bank of England  will report its next
 interest-rate  and bond-buying decisions on Oct. 6.  “Investors are looking for an alternative to the euro, and
the pound benefits,” said  Neil Jones , London-based head of
European hedge-fund sales at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. “The
U.K. has a stronger element of flexibility, autonomy and
independence.”  Sterling strengthened 1.5 percent this week versus the euro
to 86.08 pence at 5:11 p.m. in London yesterday. The pound
appreciated 1.1 percent to $1.5619. That’s its first weekly gain
against the dollar since the five days ending Aug. 19. The U.K.
currency appreciated 1.8 percent to 120.46 yen, also its first
weekly increase since Aug. 19.  The pound has gained 3.4 percent in the past three months,
the third-best performer among 10 developed-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. That
pares the 12-month decline to 2.3 percent.  Aid Disbursement  Euro-region finance ministers are unlikely to decide on the
disbursement of the next tranche of aid to Greece when they meet
on Oct. 3 because a report by the  International Monetary Fund ,
 European Central Bank  and European Commission has been delayed,
German Deputy Finance MinisterJoerg Asmussen said Sept. 25.  Bank of England policy makers have indicated they are
becoming more concerned the economic recovery will cool further
and most of them said last month they see expanding stimulus as
“increasingly probable.”  Minutes of last month’s Monetary Policy Committee meeting,
released on Sept. 21, showed members voted 8-1 to maintain the
size of the asset-purchase plan, known as quantitative easing,
at 200 billion pounds. They were unanimous in keeping the
benchmark interest rate at a record low 0.5 percent.  Bank of England Chief Economist  Spencer Dale  said Sept. 29
that policy makers have the tools available to provide
additional “monetary loosening.” MPC member Ben Broadbent said
on Sept. 26 that he was “reasonably close” to voting for more
QE, while  David Miles  said the case for stimulus has become more
“finely balanced.”  Default Risk  The pound “remains supported by the fact that default risk
is virtually non-existent in the U.K. given the BOE’s policy
settings,” said  Stephen Gallo , head of market analysis at
Schneider Foreign Exchange in London. “The U.K. is fine as long
as the BOE can print more money. If they are unable, the pound
and gilts will be in serious trouble.”  Gilts fell as yields near record lows deterred investors.
Ten-year yields rose seven basis points this week to 2.43
percent, while the two-year yield added four basis points to
0.58 percent.  The U.K. Debt Management Office plans to sell an additional
3.25 billion pounds of the benchmark 3.75 percent gilt due in
September 2021 on Oct. 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Jenkins in  London  at 
 Kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  