-- 
Qatar to Invest $1 Billion in European Goldfields to Start Up Greek Mines

-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 
2011-10-01T17:53:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-01/qatar-holdings-to-invest-about-1-billion-in-european-goldfields.html
Qatar Holdings LLC will invest about
$1 billion in  European Goldfields Ltd. (EGU) , the London-listed
company behind one of the biggest gold-mining projects in
 Greece .  Qatar will acquire a 10 percent stake from  Ellaktor SA (ELLAKTOR)  and
will have an option to buy another 5 percent from the Greek
construction company, Ahmad al-Sayed, the chief executive
officer of Qatar Holdings told reporters in Athens today. It
will also provide European Goldfields with a $600 million
financing facility, he said.  The investment comes a year after Greece signed a
memorandum of understanding with Qatar to attract $5 billion of
investment from the Gulf state into Greece’s debt-ravaged
economy. Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos in September
said the economy will contract 5.5 percent in 2011, its third
year of recession, and continue to shrink next year.  “Hopefully this will have a positive impact on the local
economy,” al-Sayed said. By “investing in the company we are
giving them the security of financing to start operating.”  The deal was signed in a ceremony in Athens today in which
Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  and Qatar’s Emir Hamad Bin Khalifa Al Thani were both present. Qatari investment is a
vote of trust in the  Greek economy , Papandreou said after the
signing.  Other recent Qatari investment in Greece includes the
planned merger of  EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA (EUROB)  and Alpha Bank SA to
form Greece’s largest bank, with Qatari-backed Paramount
Services Holding Ltd. holding the biggest stake. Qatar also
plans to develop the site of the former Athens airport.  Qatar Holdings is continuing to look at initiatives to
create new investment opportunities in Greece, al-Sayed said,
without mentioning specific projects.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  