-- 
Rousseff Calls For Lower Interest Rates as Global Economy Slumps

-- B y   F e l i p e   F r i s c h   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-10-01T03:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-01/rousseff-calls-for-lower-interest-rates-as-global-economy-slumps.html
President  Dilma Rousseff  made her
strongest call yet for the central bank to keep reducing
borrowing costs, saying  Brazil  must seize the opportunity
created by the global financial crisis to cut  interest rates .  Rousseff, speaking to business leaders in  Sao Paulo 
yesterday, said it was “inadmissible” for policy makers not to
take into account the possibility of a recession and even a
depression in the global economy. Government efforts to contain
spending are creating space for the central bank to begin a
“cautious” and “responsible” cycle of rate cuts, she said.  “As the financial crisis gets worse, this time we’ll take
advantage of it,” Rousseff said. “We hope, and we can,
initiate a cycle of reductions in the benchmark rate.”  Yields on interest rate futures plunged following
Rousseff’s remarks, with the contract due January 2012 falling
10 basis points to 11.08 percent yesterday. The real weakened
2.1 percent to 1.8794 per  U.S. dollar .  Brazil waited four months after the September 2008 collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. to begin cutting interest
rates. Last month, in contrast, policy makers preemptively
reduced the key rate even as inflation climbed to a six-year
high.  “Brazil this time can’t misjudge what’s going to happen
here as a consequence of what’s happening abroad,” Rousseff
said. “We are opening a space so that the central bank facing
the world crisis, including the threat of deflation and
depression in some advanced economies, can start a cautious
cycle of responsible reductions in interest rates.”  Surprise Rate Cut  The surprise decision of Aug. 31 to cut the Selic rate by a
half-point to 12 percent came a day after Rousseff vowed to take
Brazil on a “new pathway” of lower borrowing costs. That
prompted analysts to speculate central bank President Alexandre Tombini had yielded to political pressure. Policy makers cited a
“substantial deterioration” in the global economy to justify
their decision.  The president’s remarks yesterday echoed comments from the
central bank in its quarterly inflation report Sept. 29 that
“moderate” rate cuts can help shield  Latin America ’s biggest
economy from the European debt crisis without compromising the
government’s inflation targets.  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega , speaking at the same event
as Rousseff yesterday, said Brazil “has all the ammunition” it
needs to bring interest rates closer to levels seen in developed
nations.  The same week the central bank cut the Selic rate, the
government raised by 10 billion reais ($5.3 billion) its target
for the primary  budget surplus  in August, saying a more
restricted fiscal stance can assist the central bank in its
fight against inflation.  Mantega repeated yesterday his and Tombini’s preference to
use monetary policy instead of fiscal stimulus to buffer
Brazil’s economy should the global crisis worsen.  Rousseff also said that Brazil will not manipulate its
 exchange rate , even though the international financial crisis
has heightened the risk that governments will resort to
protectionist trade policies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Felipe Frisch in Sao Paulo at 
 ffrisch1@bloomberg.net 
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  