-- 
Saudi Shares Climb for Third Day in Four as Alinma Bank, Kayan Advance

-- B y   M o u r a d   H a r o u t u n i a n
-- 
2011-10-01T14:34:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-01/saudi-shares-fall-second-day-after-global-markets-oil-drop-sabic-slides.html
Saudi Arabian shares rose for the
third day in four, reversing earlier losses, even as signs of
slowing growth stoked concern global fuel demand will weaken.  Alinma Bank (ALINMA) , an Islamic lender based in  Saudi Arabia , and
 Saudi Kayan Petrochemical Co. (KAYAN) , a unit of  Saudi Basic Industries
Corp. (SABIC) , led the gains, climbing 1.6 percent and 1.5 percent
respectively. The 148-company  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX) 
strengthened less than 0.1 percent to 6,116.71 at the 3:30 p.m.
close in  Riyadh , erasing a drop of as much as 0.6 percent. Three
shares gained for every two that fell.  “Small and mid-cap names with limited international
exposure led the reversal,” said Asim Bukhtiar, an equity
analyst at Riyad Capital said by e-mail. “Investors flooded
into stocks that should not have immediate fallout from global
economic woes and should not report negative surprises when
third-quarter results are announced.”  Alinma rallied the most since since Sept. 13, while Kayan
had its strongest gain in a month, offseting an earlier drop in
the gauge as investors bet a decline in  China ’s purchasing
managers’ index, falling German retail sales and slowing U.S.
consumer will push crude lower. Saudi Arabia, holder of 20
percent of the world’s proven reserves, depends on oil for 86
percent of its revenue. Crude slid $2.94 to $79.20 a barrel in
 New York  yesterday.  “Large-cap names with a wider footprint and customer base
outside of Saudi Arabia remained under pressure,” said
Bukhtiar. Sabic, the world’s biggest petrochemicals maker, lost
0.8 percent, the most since Sept. 12, to 91.75 riyals, after its
unit Sabic Innovative Plastics had its ratings withdrawn by
Moody’s Investors Service. Sabic has a 12 percent weighting in
the index.  Tasnee, Zain  Kayan closed at 17.25 riyals after the company said it
began commercial operations at most of its main plants in Jubail
Industrial City as of today.  National Industrialization Co. (NIC) ,
known as Tasnee, rallied 0.5 percent to 39.60 riyals.  Zain Saudi Arabia, the kingdom’s third-largest mobile-phone
company by market value, retreated the most in three weeks,
falling 2.4 percent, to 6.10 riyals after  Kingdom Holding Co. (KINGDOM) 
and  Bahrain Telecom Co. (BATELCO)  abandoned their offer to purchase a
stake.  Saudi Arabia’s stock exchange is the only Gulf Arab bourse
open on Saturdays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mourad Haroutunian in Riyadh at 
 mharoutunian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at   shajimathew@bloomberg.net  