-- 
Spain’s Socialists, PP Clash Over Taxes Before Election

-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 
2011-10-01T18:24:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-01/spain-s-rajoy-says-people-s-party-would-cut-corporate-taxes.html
Spain’s opposition leader  Mariano Rajoy  said his  People’s Party  will reduce taxes for companies if
it wins the election on Nov. 20, while the ruling Socialists’
Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba pledged more tax to fund healthcare.  “One-person enterprises hiring an employee will be granted
a 3,000-euro ($4,000) tax rebate,” Rajoy said today during a
party meeting in Valencia. Rajoy promised tax breaks for
companies investing to modernize and said the PP will reduce
corporate tax rates for small and medium enterprises, “without
any conditions”.  Speaking in Madrid, Rubalcaba said his party would raise
taxes on tobacco and alcohol to generate 1 billion euros in 2012
to help cut the nation’s healthcare system’s estimated 2
billion-euro deficit next year.  Voters in  Spain , the euro region’s fourth-largest economy,
will head to the polls four months ahead of schedule as mounting
expectations of a Greek default fuel a surge in the country’s
borrowing costs. Polls indicate the PP candidate is most likely
to win, inheriting an unemployment rate of 21 percent and public
finances that showed a shortfall of 9.2 percent of gross
domestic product last year, the region’s highest after Greece
and Ireland.  Healthcare Funding  Rajoy said administrative rules for businesses are too
rigid in Spain and that the elected-government should aim to
make it possible to create a company within 24 hours. Rajoy said
it is the PP’s priority to encourage investment and job creation
because it is the best way to fund health care, education and
pensions.  “If we want to protect the jewel in the welfare state’s
crown, we must ask those who can to make an effort to do so,”
Rubalcaba said during a three-day party conference discussing
the Socialists’ political manifesto. The Socialists’ plan to
preserve “cheap and good healthcare for all,” includes
slashing tax breaks for companies offering private health
insurance to their employees and claiming money from insurers to
repay costs incurred to the state due to accidents, Rubalcaba
said.  Spain’s Socialists argue the wealthy and banks should be
taxed to fund measures to create jobs, boost growth and support
the welfare-state. Party and government officials have accused
the PP’s austerity plans, some of which have already been
implemented by local PP governments in the nation’s 17 semi-
autonomous regions, of “crossing the red line” and threatening
“sacred” rights such as education and healthcare.  Rajoy may win the largest outright majority on record, with
as many as 189 seats in the 350-strong Parliament and a 14.6
percentage-point lead, El Periodico reported on Sept. 26. A poll
commissioned by El Pais, a traditional ally of Socialist
administrations, gave Rajoy a 14.1 percentage-point lead on
Sept. 12 with 44.8 percent of the vote against 30.7 percent for
the Socialists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in  Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mike Harrison at 
 mharrison5@bloomberg.net  