-- 
Springboks Suffer Steyn World Cup Blow; McCaw, Carter Pull Out of Match

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-10-01T05:08:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-01/springboks-steyn-likely-ruled-out-of-world-cup-mccaw-withdraws-from-game.html
South Africa ’s Frans Steyn will
probably miss the rest of the Rugby  World Cup  after injuring his
shoulder in yesterday’s win against Samoa, coach Peter De Villiers said.  Steyn, a utility back, has scored 21 points in four games
at the tournament in  New Zealand  including a 55-meter penalty in
the 13-5 victory over Samoa that sealed the Springboks’ place in
the quarterfinals.  “Frans Steyn is likely to go home,” De Villiers said in
comments distributed by tournament organizers. “His shoulder
isn’t that good. It’s 95 percent that he’s on his way home and
that is a big blow for us.”  Bryan Habana  and fellow winger JP Pietersen are nursing
“battle scars” from the match and  De Villiers  said team
management was “presuming they can recover quick enough to take
their places this coming week.”  New Zealand will be without captain Richie McCaw and fly-
half  Dan Carter  for its final pool game against Canada after
both withdrew on the eve of the match with injuries.  McCaw won’t play because of what he described at a news
conference as a “niggly” foot injury. Carter, who was
initially chosen to take over as skipper, was later withdrawn
after injuring his groin at kicking practice, the New Zealand
Rugby Union said in an e-mailed statement.  “Carter will be further assessed this evening and an
update will be given tomorrow,” the NZRU said in a statement.
“No further updates will be given at this time.”  Colin Slade will now start at fly-half against  Canada , with
hooker Andrew Hore to captain the All Blacks for the first time.
Victor Vito will take over at openside flanker from McCaw.  “I was pretty keen to play against Canada because it’s
important for the team and for all of us that we carry on the
momentum,” McCaw said. “We have a knockout game next week and
I just wanted to make sure it wasn’t niggly heading into that
week.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  