-- 
U.S. Closes $4.75 Billion in Solar Loans Before Program Deadline

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n   a n d   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 
2011-10-01T12:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-01/u-s-closes-4-75-billion-in-solar-loans-before-program-deadline.html
The U.S. Energy Department completed
$4.75 billion in loan guarantees for four solar projects
yesterday, the deadline for a 2005 program funded by the
stimulus act.  Projects being developed by ProLogis Inc.,  SunPower Corp. (SPWRA) ,
and  First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  won U.S. backing, and First Solar and
SunPower immediately sold theirs.  The guarantees come at the end of a month in which the
Energy Department’s program became the center of a political
scandal, said Brett Prior, an analyst at GTM Research in  Boston .
The shift came after Solyndra LLC, a solar company that received
$527 million in backing through the same program, closed its
doors Aug. 31.  “It’s been very successful, and in fact the only rap
against the program until recently was that it was moving too
slowly,” Prior said in an interview yesterday. “Lenders always
assume some risk and Solyndra was a tiny portion of the overall
program.”  During a May 2010 visit to its factory, President  Barack
Obama  said Solyndra showed “the promise of clean energy.” The
Fremont, California-based company received the first guarantee
under the Energy Department’s program, which was funded by
Obama’s 2009 stimulus legislation, and the largest for any
manufacturer. It filed for bankruptcy Sept. 6.  Congressional Scrutiny  Solyndra’s failure prompted congressional scrutiny of the
program. Republicans on the House Energy and Commerce Committee
said the White House applied pressure to expedite the company’s
guarantee, and have used its failure to tar both the loan
guarantee program and Obama’s efforts to promote the renewable
energy industry as an economic driver.  The four projects approved yesterday  join  25 solar, wind
and geothermal companies that have won more than $11.4 billion
in loan backing for projects from  Maine  to  Hawaii , including
Solyndra, which borrowed $527 million against its $535 million
guarantee.  “The loan guarantees have scored a lot more positives than
negatives and will create a lot of jobs as the projects start
moving,” Sanjay Shrestha, an analyst at Lazard Capital Markets
in  New York , said in an interview. “We need a much bigger
program to really expand domestic manufacturing and compete with
 Asia .”  Not all the conditional guarantees were completed before
the deadline expired.  SolarCity Corp., a Foster City, California-based developer
of residential rooftop solar systems, last week said it wouldn’t
be able to complete the $275 million conditional guarantee it
received a day after Solyndra filed for bankruptcy.  The financing would have supported rooftop solar
installations on military housing and office buildings in as
many as 33 states. SolarCity was planning a $1 billion, five-
year program to install 160,000 rooftop photovoltaic systems.  First Solar Projects  First Solar, the largest maker of thin-film solar panels,
said Sept. 22 that its 550-megawatt Topaz Solar Farm in
 California  wouldn’t get a $1.9 billion guarantee because it
couldn’t meet the loan’s conditions by the Sept. 30 deadline. In
addition to the two yesterday, the company won a $967 million
guarantee for a project in  Arizona  in August.  First Solar received guarantees of $646 million for its
230-megawatt  Antelope Valley Solar Ranch 1  project, in Los
Angeles County, and $1.46 billion for its 550-megawatt  Desert
Sunlight  plant, in Riverside County, the Energy Department said
on its website.  Projects Sold  The solar company immediately announced that it had sold
Antelope Valley to Exelon Corp., while NextEra Inc. and General
Electric Co. purchased Desert Sunlight. Exelon said it will
invest as much as much as $1.36 billion in Antelope Valley.
First Solar didn’t give a price for the Desert Sunlight sale.
The company typically sells the projects it develops, and the
guarantees make it easier to find buyers,  Alan Bernheimer , a
company spokesman, said in an interview.  ProLogis (PLD)  Inc., the world’s biggest warehouse owner,
received a partial guarantee covering 80 percent of a $1.4
billion loan to put solar panels on about 750 of its buildings
in 28 states. Bank of America Corp. and  NRG Energy Inc. (NRG)  are
investing in Project Amp, which is expected to have total
capacity of 752 megawatts when complete.  SunPower, which is majority-owned by Total SA, received a
$1.24 billion guarantee for its 250-megawatt California Valley
Solar Ranch project in San Luis Obispo County, and sold it to
NRG Energy Inc. It didn’t give the price.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  