-- 
Libya Forces Tighten Grip Around Qaddafi’s Sirte as NATO Mission Nears End

-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e   a n d   C h r i s   S t e p h e n
-- 
2011-10-02T08:30:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-01/turkey-may-freeze-assets-of-syria-s-assad-libya-s-qaddafi-still-at-large.html
Libyan opposition fighters tightened
their cordon around Sirte, the hometown of Muammar Qaddafi and
one of the country’s last loyalist strongholds, as NATO said it
was preparing to wind down its mission there.  Interim government forces, who have been shelling Qaddafi
loyalists in Sirte backed by NATO air strikes, are seeking a
two-day truce to allow civilians to escape the coastal city. A
family of four was killed by machinegun fire as they fled Sirte
yesterday, the  Associated Press  reported yesterday.  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization’s military mission
is nearing completion and could begin winding down its
involvement in the North African country as soon as this week,
the AP reported. Army General Carter Ham, the top U.S. commander
for  Africa , told the  news agency  that U.S. military chiefs will
likely provide NATO officials in Brussels with their assessments
on  Libya  late in the week.  Qaddafi remains at large. The National Transitional Council
has been working to stabilize the economy and establish
authority over factions that rebelled against the deposed Libyan
leader, including the military council in Misrata, the main
rebel stronghold in the west during the seven-month conflict,
which is leading the Sirte operation.  The formation of an interim Cabinet has been repeatedly
postponed since the NTC took Tripoli, the capital, in late
August. Libya may not have a new interim government for weeks or
months, Mahmoud Jibril, prime minister of the NTC, told
reporters on Sept. 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Tripoli at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 