-- 
Yankees, Tigers Have Game 1 of Their AL Playoff Series Suspended by Rain

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-10-01T04:29:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-01/yankees-tigers-have-game-1-of-their-al-playoff-series-suspended-by-rain.html
The  New York Yankees  and  Detroit
Tigers  may be without the services of their ace pitchers for
several days because Game 1 of their Major League Baseball
playoff series was postponed by rain after 1 1/2 innings.  Justin Verlander  and CC Sabathia won’t come back tonight
when the teams resume play at Yankee Stadium in New York with
the score tied 1-1. Both teams said they’ll pitch their
scheduled Game 2 starters, with rookie Ivan Nova taking over for
the Yankees and Doug Fister going for the Tigers.  Coming into the American League Division Series, both teams
planned to pitch their aces twice if the matchup went a full
five games. The postponement will likely change those plans, as
Verlander and Sabathia -- who ranked 1-2 in the AL in wins this
season -- may not be available again until Game 3.  “It’s not what either club wanted,” Yankees manager  Joe Girardi  said at a news conference. “Both clubs have to deal
with it. The one thing I probably learned as much as any other
this season, you cannot fight Mother Nature.”  Verlander threw 25 pitches in the first inning and Sabathia
tossed 27 over two innings before rain halted play last night.
After a delay of 1 hour, 17 minutes, the game was suspended. It
will resume tonight at 8:37 p.m. New York time with the Yankees
batting in the bottom of the second inning.  “There was so much buildup and anticipation coming into
the game, the playoffs,” said Sabathia, whose 19 wins were
second in the AL behind Verlander’s major league-leading 24.
“To have it rained out is disappointing.”  Series Schedule  The suspension pushes Game 2 back to tomorrow at 3:07 p.m.
and eliminates a travel day in the series. Game 3 is scheduled
for Oct. 3 in  Detroit , with Game 4 the following day.  Tonight’s forecast in New York calls for a 40 percent
chance of showers, according to the  National Weather Service .  “We’re going to have to come up with a plan if we get
rained out,” said  Joe Torre , MLB’s executive vice president of
baseball operations. “We hope the forecast is going to be
better than we were told.”  The Yankees had 22 games affected by weather during the
regular season, including a major league-high nine rainouts.
Last night’s rain cost the Yankees their most dependable
pitcher, as Sabathia was making his eighth Game 1 playoff start,
tied for the second most in baseball history.  “He did look sharp,” Girardi said of Sabathia, who gave
up a first-inning home run to Delmon Young last night and had
four strikeouts. “What are you going to do? There’s nothing we
can do about it now. It’s too late to put a roof on.”  Verlander has won 12 straight decisions for the Tigers,
with his last loss coming on July 15. The Yankees scored their
first-inning run last night without a hit, as  Derek Jeter 
reached base on a strikeout and scored on a groundout.  ‘Marquee Matchup’  “I feel bad for the national audience and the fans that
were here,” Tigers manager Jim Leyland told reporters. “It was
really a marquee matchup. That’s a little sad, but that’s the
way it is.”  The Yankees now turn to Nova, who went 16-4 this season as
a rookie. The Tigers will go with Fister, who was voted the AL
pitcher of the month for September after going 5-0 with a 0.53
earned run average in five starts.  Girardi said  Freddy Garcia  will pitch Game 2 for the
Yankees, while the Tigers will start Max Scherzer. Whether
Sabathia is able to return for Game 3 hasn’t been determined,
though Sabathia said he wants to pitch as soon as he can.  “That’s something we’ll continue to discuss,” Girardi
said. “I’m going to wait to see how he feels Saturday and
Sunday, and then we’ll go from there. The thing is, when CC goes
out there, you want a rested and sharp CC.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski at Yankee Stadium in  New York  at 
8797 or  matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  