-- 
Zaha Hadid Wins Stirling a Second Time, Beats Olympic Velodrome

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-10-01T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-01/zaha-hadid-wins-stirling-prize-a-second-time-beats-2012-olympic-velodrome.html
Zaha Hadid , an Iraqi-born architect,
last night won the U.K.’s RIBA Stirling Prize for the second
straight year, as judges favored her school in Brixton, south
London, to rivals including the  London 2012 Olympics  Velodrome.  Hadid’s Evelyn Grace Academy -- a 36.5 million pound ($57
million) concrete-and-glass structure with a running track
linking the campus gates -- was voted “best new European
building built or designed in the U.K.” Last year’s winner,
also by Hadid, was the MAXXI contemporary-art museum in  Rome .  The academy “is an exceptional example of what can be
achieved when we invest carefully in a well-designed new school
building,” said RIBA President Angela Brady, who chaired the
jury for the  Stirling , the U.K.’s top architecture prize.  “The result -- a highly imaginative, exciting academy that
shows the students, staff and local residents that they are
valued -- is what every school should and could be,” Brady said
in an e-mailed news release.  The other five Stirling nominees were Hopkins Architects,
for the Velodrome; David Chipperfield (the 2007 winner) for the
Folkwang Museum in Essen,  Germany ; the Royal Shakespeare Theatre
in Stratford-Upon-Avon (Bennetts Associates Architects); the
Angel Building in London (by  Allford Hall Monaghan Morris ); and
the An Gaelaras cultural center in Derry,  Northern Ireland 
(O’Donnell and Tuomey).  Hadid in 2004 became the first woman to win the  Pritzker 
Architecture Prize, her profession’s highest accolade. In the
last year, she has inaugurated two other U.K. projects: the 2012
 London  Olympics Aquatic Centre and the Riverside Museum in
Glasgow,  Scotland .  Busson’s Foundation  The Evelyn Grace Academy is constructed on the site of what
was once a garbage-truck depot in Brixton, where the 1981 riots
broke out. Built with government money, it is run by the ARK
Foundation, which was co-founded by financier Arpad Busson.  In an interview at the academy’s inauguration in October
2010, Hadid said the place was “not like a fortress, where you
have a school on the perimeter of the site, and everything
within is not visible.” While there were secure gates, people
outside could “see the activities within.”  Her hope, she said, was that students in an underprivileged
part of London would avoid a “ghettoized and fortified life.”  RIBA stands for Royal Institute of British Architects. The
award was named after architect Sir James Stirling. The winner
receives 20,000 pounds. This year’s awards ceremony was held in
the Magna Science and Adventure Centre in Rotherham, winner of
the 2001 prize. Richard Rogers was the winner in 2009, and in
2008 Hadid’s Austrian ski-lift station was beaten by a housing
project in Cambridge,  England .  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at mhoelterhoff or. 