-- Abbott’s Quarterly Profit Rises on Emerging Market Sales
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z   a n d   S a m u e l   A d a m s
-- 2013-07-17T20:12:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/abbott-s-quarterly-profit-rises-on-emerging-market-sales.html
Abbott Laboratories (ABT) , the largest
maker of heart stents and adult nutritional beverages, said
second-quarter profit climbed 16 percent as sales increased in
 emerging markets  including Russia and China.  Profit from continuing operations rose to $476 million, or
30 cents a share, from $411 million, or 26 cents, a year
earlier, the Abbott Park, Illinois-based company said in a
statement today. Earnings, excluding one-time items, of 46 cents
a share beat by 2 cents the average of 21 analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales in emerging markets rose 13 percent, helping revenue
increase 2.5 percent to $5.45 billion from a year earlier. Sales
in China and Russia grew more than 30 percent each, Chief
Financial Officer Thomas Freyman said on a conference call
today. New products are bolstering Abbott’s performance, said
 Joanne Wuensch , an analyst at BMO Capital Markets in New York,
in a July 15 note. The company has won approval for 45 medicines
in 14 emerging markets, she said.  “Everything appears to be in line, the story appears to be
on track, and EPS was better than expected,” Wuensch said today
in a telephone call. Emerging markets were about 40 percent of
Abbott’s sales, “considerably driving revenue,” she said in a
later e-mail.  Forecast Reiterated  Abbott reiterated its 2013  forecast  excluding one-time
items of $1.98 to $2.04 a share. Net income dropped 72 percent
to $476 million, or 30 cents, from $1.73 billion, or $1.08, a
year earlier, when the company’s drug unit was still included in
results. The drug business was split off into a new company,
 AbbVie Inc. (ABBV) , based in North Chicago, Illinois, on Jan. 1.  “We’ve built a broad emerging market base that serves to
offset volatility in any one market,” Chief Executive Officer
 Miles White  said on the conference call.  Abbott gained less than 1 percent to $35.82 at the close in
New York. The shares have increased 14 percent this year.  “We still expect Abbott’s sales and earnings per share
growth to outpace its MedTech and diversified peers,” said
 Glenn Novarro , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in New York, in
a July 15 note to clients. “Abbott is the fastest-growing large
cap company in our universe. As such, a premium valuation is
justified.”  Abbott retained the original company’s medical devices,
nutritional products, diagnostic tests and generic drugs.
AbbVie, which will report earnings on July 26, kept the brand
name drugs, including the best-selling Humira for rheumatoid
arthritis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net ;
Samuel Adams in  New York  at 
 sadams69@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  