-- Abe Set for Japan Election Win Faces LDP Dissent Risk
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2013-07-18T04:56:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/abe-set-for-japan-election-win-faces-ldp-dissent-as-biggest-risk.html
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
is set to win control of both houses of parliament, giving his
Liberal Democratic Party-led coalition the strongest grip on
power since 2007. Winning the election will be the easy part.  While a government victory in the July 21 upper house
ballot would end  Japan ’s recent experiment with two-party
politics, internal dissent looms within months should slowing
growth undermine the promise of Abenomics. Economists forecast
the economy to contract after an April 2014 sales-tax rise.  With Abe pledging legislation to revamp business regulation
and open Japan’s markets to more competition, his longer-term
legacy will be influenced by how deep-seated the changes are.
Reformer Junichiro Koizumi helmed a similarly strong LDP seven
years ago, only to see his flagship postal reform measure
abandoned and the party sink into internal bickering, with
revolving-door leaders.  “The lifespan of this administration will be determined by
whether he can manage this autumn,” said Jun Iio, professor of
government at the National Graduate Research Institute for
Policy Studies in  Tokyo . “He has only just started work on
economic policies. What he has at the moment is a kind of
advance on their effects.”  The LDP and its coalition partner New Komeito are on track
to win more than 65 of the 121 upper house seats up for grabs,
according to a poll published in the Nikkei newspaper yesterday.
Added to the coalition’s 59 seats in the uncontested half of the
chamber, it will have a majority for the first time since 2007.  Half Century  The Democratic Party of Japan -- which ejected the LDP in
2009 after an almost uninterrupted half century in office only
to lose the lower house again three years later -- will win
fewer than 20 seats, the poll showed. That could reduce it to
its lowest numbers since the party’s formation in 1998. The
paper surveyed 33,831 people on July 14-16 and did not give a
margin of error.  Abe has benefited from an opposition in disarray with the
DPJ undermined by factional splits and an inability to set a
clear policy platform. That has allowed the LDP to paper over
its cracks, including skepticism from Abe’s deputy Taro Aso over
the effectiveness of unprecedented monetary easing. Abe’s party
leadership will be up for contest in September 2015.  “Once we get into a comfortable position there is a danger
that we will become arrogant, full of ourselves and loose in
paying attention,” LDP Secretary-General Shigeru Ishiba told
reporters in Tokyo on July 3.  Growth Slowdown  Japan’s gross domestic product is forecast to contract by
4.4 percent on an annualized basis in the second quarter of
2014, when a 3 percentage point sales-tax increase is scheduled
to take effect, according to the median forecast of 29
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  “We need to set clear priorities for what we plan to do
between autumn and the beginning of next year,” Justice
Minister Sadakazu Tanigaki, a former LDP leader, said in an
interview. If Abe follows a coherent plan, “the way will be
open for a long-lasting administration. If he fails, it may
become difficult to maintain party discipline.”  A poll published by the Mainichi newspaper on July 15 found
support for Abe at 55 percent, down from 70 percent in March.
The paper surveyed 934 people by phone July 13-14 and gave no
margin of error.  Wilderness Years  The LDP, formed in 1955 as a catch-all for non-Communist
politicians, dominated Japanese politics for more than half a
century. Koizumi reinvigorated its support when he took over in
2001, vowing to battle internal opposition. His resignation in
2006 triggered a rapid turnover of premiers weakened by cabinet
gaffes.  Since its 2009 defeat the LDP has better maintained
discipline, allowing Abe to join talks on the U.S.-led Trans-Pacific Partnership trade deal, a policy opposed by many in the
farming lobby that has traditionally backed the LDP.  “There’s a bunch of people in the LDP who are anti-TPP
down the line, but they’re not saying anything,” said Steven Reed, professor of political science at Chuo University in
Tokyo. Election defeat taught the party a lesson in unity, he
said, although it remains to be seen how long that will last.  The LDP’s coalition partner New Komeito is wary of Abe’s
ideas on changing Japan’s pacifist constitution and beefing up
the military in the face of ballooning public debt and social
security payments.  While there is no immediate challenger for the leadership,
advocates of fiscal stimulus like Finance Minister Aso and
former industry minister Toshihiro Nikai could potentially form
a rival focus within the party, Iio said. Aso has said Abe’s 2
percent inflation target will not be easy to achieve.  Opposition Regroup  In the longer term, the opposition parties will regroup due
to public demand for an alternative to the LDP, according to
Ichiro Ozawa, president of the People’s Life Party and former
leader of the DPJ.  “There is a great desire among the Japanese people to have
another option,” he told reporters yesterday. “By the time of
the next general election there will be movement to create this.
There will definitely be another change of administration.”  In the meantime, Abe must work fast if he is to avoid
deflating expectations for his growth plans that have pushed the
Nikkei share average up 43 percent since he took office.  “Abe has a very short window from July 21 until early next
year, when the budget is passed,” said Gerald Curtis, professor
of political science at Columbia University in New York. “If
he’s going to do anything that’s bold it has to happen during
this period.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  