-- Machiavelli’s Political Survival Guide Gets French Update
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2013-07-17T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/machiavelli-s-political-survival-guide-gets-french-update.html
Is “The Prince,” Niccolo Machiavelli’s famous, some might say notorious, primer for
politicians still relevant?  Yes and no, says Percy Kemp, a Beirut-born writer best
known for his espionage novels.  Yes, because, as in Machiavelli’s time, the art of seizing
and maintaining power could be learned. No, because the
political landscape has changed fundamentally since the 1532
publication of the book.  Hence Kemp’s decision to rewrite “Le Prince,” adapted for
the modern world. His subtitle says it all: “Useful Tips for
Our Rulers, Harassed by Events, On How to Exercise Power and
Hold Onto It.”  Since the end of the  Cold War , we’re told, foreign politics
is no longer a game of chess with a clear distinction between
friend and foe. It has become a contest with numerous players
including markets, terrorists and other elusive forces.  As luck would have it, the less the modern prince controls
in this multipolar game, the more he is held responsible for
everything that goes wrong: Epidemics, tsunamis, banking crises,
heat waves, ruptured breast implants -- they’re all blamed on
hapless politicians.  “Events, dear boy, events,” said Harold Macmillan when
someone asked him what he feared most. Without expressly quoting
the former U.K. prime minister, Kemp agrees: Events are the
worst enemies of politicians.  Happy Malcontents  That’s why they desperately try to organize the events
themselves. Summit conferences, royal weddings, international
championships have no other purpose than to keep the malcontents
happy.  That recipe, however, doesn’t always work. The 1972
Olympics in Munich were derailed by a terrorist attack on the
Israeli team. And the fairy tale wedding of Charles and Diana
turned into the royal family’s worst PR disaster.  Does that mean that the politician is completely powerless
against the force of destiny? Not quite, says Kemp. He still got
three weapons -- intelligence, diversion and mystification.  By intelligence, you may have guessed, the spy novelist
means secret information collected by well-trained, unprejudiced
professionals.  The Iraq war could have been avoided, he suggests, if
 George W. Bush  and  Tony Blair  had listened with open minds to
their experts instead of distorting their findings on weapons of
mass destruction.  Stalin’s Scout  Even the best spy cannot avert disaster if his boss doesn’t
believe him -- as happened to Richard Sorge, Stalin’s scout in
 Tokyo : He correctly predicted Hitler’s attack on the  Soviet
Union  only to be dismissed as a fabulist.  Diversion is the high art of finding a scapegoat.  Kemp recommends the Chinese way: After the Wenzhou bullet
train crash in 2011 which killed 40 people and injured 200,
three high officials were fired within 24 hours to placate the
wrath of the people.  Mystification, on the other hand, or spin, as it’s usually
called today, needs more careful handling. It can easily
backfire.  The true colors of Jose Maria Aznar, Spanish prime minister
from 1996 to 2004 and another backer of the  Iraq war , were
quickly revealed when he tried to blame the bombing of a
 commuter train  by Arab terrorists in 2004 on ETA, the Basque
separatist organization. He was promptly voted out of office.  Mystification, says Kemp, used to be easier. We still
believe that the Greeks attacked Troy because of Helen’s affair
with Paris, not because of the city’s immense riches, and that
Richard III was an evil king who deserved to be dethroned and
killed.  No wonder: The Greeks and the Tudors had talented spin
doctors like Homer and Shakespeare.  “Le Prince” is published by Editions du Seuil (140 pages,
15 euros).  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars,  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on technology,  Richard Vines  on food and  James
Russell  on architecture.  To contact the writer of this review:
Jorg von Uthmann at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at  mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 