-- Ahmadinejad Departure in Iran Means Moving Desk Down Hall
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-07-17T16:53:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/ahmadinejad-creates-new-iran-office-to-keep-a-presence.html
Iran ’s outgoing President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad ordered the creation of an agency in the
presidential office in an effort to retain a presence even after
his successor, Hassan Rohani, takes over.  The new “Former President’s Office” was outlined in a
June 22 directive from Gholam-Hossein Elham, Ahmadinejad’s
deputy for human resources in the presidency, Tehran-based
newspapers  Shargh  and  Donya-e-Eqtesad  said.  The office will be staffed by 25 people, consisting of a
director, experts and others in charge of coordination and
communication, Donya said. They will plan meetings with
officials at home and abroad and with legislative and judicial
bodies, it said. The office’s activities may overlap with the
new president’s work, Shargh said.  “Iran is a country of second chances,” said Suzanne
Maloney, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution’s Saban
Center for Middle East Policy in  Washington  in a telephone
interview. “It’d be out of character for Ahmadinejad to fade
quietly into the woodwork.”  The reports were acknowledged by an official from the
presidential office, though he remained vague on the plan.  “In line with the law, the president and his vice
president can have personal offices once their term ends,”
Hamid Baghaei, the president’s deputy for executive affairs,
told reporters today in Tehran, according to the state-run
 Reporters’ Club .  Previous Home  “It doesn’t matter where the president will be
stationed,” Baghaei said. “It is planned for the president,
based on the request he’ll make, to have an office at his
disposal so as to carry out his work and resolve issues.”  At the end of his cabinet meeting today, Ahmadinejad
answered a reporter’s question on whether he would stay in the
presidential office by saying, “I am in the midst of moving
back to my previous home” in northeastern Tehran, state-run
 Fars  reported.  Ahmadinejad has fallen out of favor with Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, the country’s highest authority. Ahmadinejad’s second
term, which started in 2009, was fraught with quarrels involving
top officials, and a widening circle of critics accused him of
careless economic management and reckless rhetoric. During his
eight-year presidency, he stoked tensions with the West over
Iran’s nuclear program. The United Nations, U.S. and European
Union subsequently imposed sanctions.  Former Presidents  Previous ex-presidents have stayed active politically. Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, who was president for two terms from
1989 to 1997, heads the Expediency Council, a political
consultative body to resolve disputes between parliament and the
12-man Guardian Council. Rafsanjani, was a presidential
candidate in 2005 and 2013.  Mohammad Khatami, president between 1997 to 2005,
contemplated running in the 2009 Iranian presidential election
before giving his support to the reformist candidate Mir Hossein Mousavi who remains under house arrest. He supported Rohani in
2013 elections.  “Ahmadinejad has some popular support within the country
and I’m skeptical that he is a spent force,” Maloney said. “I
would not write him off.”  Days ahead of the Aug. 3 inauguration of Rohani,
Ahmadinejad has indicated he has plans beyond a smooth handover
to the next government, Shargh said.  “Ahmadinejad’s character shows that he isn’t someone who
will easily step away from power,” today’s Shargh report quoted
Ahmad Khorshidi-Azad, the father of Ahmadinejad’s son-in-law, as
having said. “He will do all he can to maintain power.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  