-- Tainted Nuts Spark FDA to Examine Growing Salmonella Risk
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-07-17T16:12:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/tainted-nuts-spark-fda-to-examine-growing-salmonella-risk.html
Four years after salmonella-tainted
peanuts were linked to nine deaths and sparked one of the
largest U.S. recalls, regulators began a health  risk assessment 
of other nuts that have become susceptible to contamination.  The  Food and Drug Administration  wants to know why
salmonella, which isn’t common in low-moisture foods like tree
nuts, has been repeatedly linked to recalls of almonds, cashews
and pistachios. Companies led by  Diamond Foods Inc. (DMND)  and  Kraft
Foods Group Inc. (KRFT) , which makes Planters, are being asked to
review salmonella prevention efforts so the agency can determine
how to reduce the health risk, the FDA said today in a  filing .  In the past week, two closely held companies, Western
Mixers Inc. and Torn & Glasser Inc., recalled pistachios because
of salmonella, according to the FDA’s website. The agency didn’t
single out any producers in its filing today, only referring
broadly to recalls from 2009 to 2012 for pine nuts, pistachios,
shelled hazelnuts, walnuts, cashews and macadamias.  “These outbreaks, published reports of salmonella in tree
nuts destined for human consumption and recalls emphasize the
need to assess the risk of salmonellosis associated with tree
nuts intended for human consumption, and to evaluate the
appropriate risk-based preventive controls,” the FDA said.  Salmonella is the most common foodborne infection in the
U.S. and is commonly passed from the feces of chickens or other
animals to contaminate water and produce. Contamination can lead
to diarrhea, fever and abdominal cramps in humans.  Low Moisture  Low-moisture foods don’t support salmonella growth yet
small amounts of the pathogen can be present in raw nuts because
of the nature of the cultivation and harvesting, the Washington-based Grocery Manufacturers Association said in a 2010 industry
 handbook . Salmonella has emerged as a concern in the  food
industry  after the pathogen was found in peanut butter in 2007
and 2009, the association said.  The sequence of events that led to the recent salmonella
outbreaks from tree nuts isn’t fully understood, the FDA said.
The agency is asking the industry, consumer groups and other
experts to provide scientific data relevant to the risk
assessment.  Salmonella bacteria causes salmonellosis, of which about
42,000 cases are reported each year and 400 people die from the
infection, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, said
on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  