-- Air-Traffic Upgrade Harmed by U.S. Budget Cuts: FAA Chief
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-07-17T16:09:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/air-traffic-upgrade-harmed-by-u-s-budget-cuts-faa-chief.html
The U.S. switch to satellite-based
air-traffic control systems known as NextGen would be put in
jeopardy if a House budget proposal becomes law, an aviation
regulator and a government watchdog told a panel of lawmakers.  The Republican-controlled House Appropriations Committee
has passed a proposed 2014 budget for the  Federal Aviation
Administration  that would force the agency to delay NextGen
funding to keep the current system operating, FAA Administrator
Michael Huerta said at a House aviation subcommittee hearing
today.  “Our understanding is at those funding levels, the agency
would be required to constrain its efforts greatly in regards to
NextGen,” Calvin Scovel, the Transportation Department’s
inspector general, said at the hearing.  The comments provided the first indication of how President
 Barack Obama ’s administration views the House plan for the FAA.
The proposal would provide the lowest funding for FAA facilities
and equipment since 2000, Huerta said. A Senate budget proposal
provides more money.  The FAA budget passed by the House Appropriations Committee
last month calls for spending $756 million less than the
agency’s current $16 billion level, according to the committee’s
website. It would cut more than $100 million beyond the level
required this year under automatic cuts known as sequestration,
according to the committee.  Sequester Cuts  Sequestration cuts imposed this year have already stalled
improvements to flight routes in some large U.S. metro areas,
part of the $42 billion NextGen plan, Huerta and Scovel told the
committee.  Work on that NextGen component, known as the Metroplex
initiative, has been pushed back due to the forced cuts, Scovel
said.  “The sequester and future funding unpredictability
requires the FAA to make sizable budget cuts that affect our
operations and our future,” Huerta said.  While Congress and Obama completed legislation April 27 to
stave off furloughs of air-traffic controllers, which had
triggered flight delays, today’s testimony today showed the
agency has cut in other areas.  The Metroplex program, designed to bring improvements to
some of the U.S.’s most delayed airports, is an early step in
the decades-long program to modernize the air-traffic system.
The FAA is developing more efficient routes for airlines using
satellite technology, which will save fuel and allow more
flights, according to the agency.  GPS Tracking  Huerta said a lack of predictable long-term funding had
hurt the agency’s ability to plan for NextGen, which will
replace radar with global-positioning tracking of planes.  “While we are grateful that Congress passed budgetary
flexibility for FAA to provide for a temporary solution to the
FAA furloughs, this stop-gap measure does not end the ongoing
challenges the sequester presents,” he said.  The FAA was required to cut $637 million by Sept. 30 from
its $16 billion budget under sequestration. Congress approved
the use of $253 million in funds intended for airport
construction to allow the agency to avoid having to require its
employees to take unpaid days off.  Scovel told the committee that the FAA’s  NextGen  efforts
were also being slowed by the agency’s lack of planning and
technology programs that have been delayed.  At six busy airports -- including  New York ’s LaGuardia,
Newark Liberty International and John F. Kennedy International -
- only 3 percent of eligible flights are making use of new
precision-flight routes, Scovel said.  It’s been difficult for controllers to assign aircraft the
new routes when they are mixed in with planes that aren’t
equipped to fly them, he said. In some cases, controllers need
new technology before they can clear planes to fly the routes,
he said.  In some cases, airlines have grown frustrated that they
paid to install equipment on their planes that they can’t use,
Scovel said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  