-- Talks to Expand Technology Pact Collapse
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-07-17T21:39:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/talks-to-expand-technology-pact-collapse.html
Negotiations among dozens of nations
aimed at eliminating duties on some electronic devices collapsed
after China proposed excluding many items from the talks.  “The  United States  is extremely disappointed that it
became necessary to suspend negotiations,” U.S. Trade
Representative  Michael Froman  said yesterday in a statement on
the Information Technology Agreement. “A diverse group of
members participating in the negotiations determined that
China’s current position makes progress impossible at this
stage.”  China and the U.S., the world’s two largest economies, are
among members of the Geneva-based  World Trade Organization 
seeking to expand the agreement, signed in 1996 before the
introduction of smartphones, tablet computers and a range of
other electronics goods. The accord being negotiated would
update the list of goods that receive duty-free treatment.  The talks in Geneva failed as President  Barack Obama ’s
administration confronts China with accusations that it’s behind
a campaign to hack into U.S. agencies and corporations to steal
 trade secrets  and potentially disrupt power grids and
telecommunications networks. The accusations were delivered at a
July 8 meeting of a U.S.-China cybersecurity group, according to
an official who attended the session who asked to remain
unidentified.  A spokesman from the Chinese Embassy in Washington didn’t
immediately return a call yesterday seeking comment on Froman’s
statement.  Removal Request  China this week urged removal of 106 products from a list
of 260 goods that would receive duty-free treatment, John Neuffer, senior vice president for global policy at the
 Information Technology Industry Council , said in a July 15 blog
post. Neuffer is in Geneva for the talks. The council represents
companies including  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  of Cupertino and  Facebook Inc. (FB)  of
 Menlo Park  in California.  “China is the world’s largest exporter of IT products and
will benefit enormously from this tariff elimination
initiative,” Neuffer said yesterday in a blog post. “It should
not be allowed to continue to keep a wide swath of tariffs in
place that make it difficult for innovative, affordable tech
products from the United States and around the world to enter
the Chinese market.”  The 1996 agreement, which covered about $2 trillion in
global exports, applies to goods including some computers and
telecommunications equipment, according to a June 2012 report by
Bloomberg Government senior global business and trade analyst
Ken Monahan. It excludes some goods such as MP3 players and
video-game consoles such as Microsoft Corp.’s Xbox 360, it said.  “Concluding a deal this year is at risk, and it’s unclear
what the next steps are at this point,” due to the collapse of
the talks, Monahan said in an interview yesterday. There’s no
longer clarity about what will be on the expanded list, he said.  “We are hopeful that  China  will carefully consider the
concerns it heard this week from many of its negotiating
partners, and revise its position in a way that will allow the
prompt resumption of the negotiations,” Froman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  