-- All-Star Game TV Ratings Match 2012 With Increase in New York
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-07-17T16:00:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/all-star-game-tv-ratings-match-2012-with-increase-in-new-york.html
The lowest-scoring Major League
Baseball All-Star Game in 23 years drew a major-market rating of
8.1 on Fox, matching the 2012 game, as viewership in the host
city of New York jumped 16 percent.  The  American League ’s 3-0 win last night at the New York
Mets’ Citi Field was seen on the  News Corp. (NWSA)  network in 8.1
percent of U.S. homes in the top 56 metered markets, MLB said in
an e-mailed release citing  Nielsen Media Research .  With New York Mets pitcher Matt Harvey starting and Yankees
relief pitcher  Mariano Rivera  making his final All-Star
appearance before he retires, the New York rating was 11.3,
according to the release.  Total viewership numbers for the game haven’t been
released. The All-Star Game attracted a record-low audience for
Fox for three consecutive years before last night’s game,
according to the final ratings.  Ten AL pitchers combined to allow three hits with eight
strikeouts last night, backed by runs batted in from  Jose Bautista , J.J. Hardy and Jason Kipnis. It was the American
League’s first win in four years, and the lowest-scoring All-Star Game since the AL’s 2-0 win in 1990.  Viewership rose 7 percent toward the end of the game, when
Rivera entered to a standing ovation from fans and players and
pitched a scoreless eighth inning, Fox spokesman  Lou D’Ermilio 
said on his Twitter account. A 13-time All-Star and five-time
World Series champion, Rivera has said that he is retiring after
this season. He was named the game’s Most Valuable Player.  This year’s highest local rating was in Detroit, at 20.3,
where American League starting pitcher Max Scherzer plays for
the Tigers. The game drew a 12.6 rating in Baltimore, a 70
percent increase from 2012, as five Orioles were chosen for the
AL team.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  