-- AmEx Record Profit Tops Estimates as Credit-Card Spending Climbs
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-07-18T04:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/american-express-profit-beats-estimates-as-card-spending-climbs.html
American Express Co. (AXP) , the biggest
credit-card issuer by purchases, posted a record profit in the
second quarter, exceeding analysts’ estimates, as customer
spending increased.  Net income  rose 4.9 percent to $1.41 billion, or $1.27 a
share, from $1.34 billion, or $1.15, a year earlier, the New
York-based lender said yesterday in a statement. The average
estimate of 26 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was $1.22.  Chief Executive Officer Kenneth I. Chenault is trimming the
firm’s workforce to contain expenses and investing in new
products such as a prepaid card sold by  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  to
broaden the lender’s reach beyond more affluent customers.  “We are well on track with the restructuring and related
initiatives that we announced earlier this year,” Chenault said
in the statement. “They are helping us contain expense growth
and that, in turn, is giving us the flexibility to make
substantial investments designed to grow the business and expand
into newer segments.”  American Express dropped the most in a year yesterday,
falling as much as 4.7 percent on an intraday basis, after some
analysts said a European Commission proposal to cap bank-card
fees would crimp profit. The shares pared losses, declining 1.9
percent to $76.80 after the company said the impact would be
limited. The stock gained 34 percent this year.  “American Express has been in touch with senior
policymakers at the commission and will continue to represent
its positions vigorously throughout the process,” Chief
Financial Officer Dan Henry said on a conference call.  Revenue Miss  Second-quarter net revenue rose 3.5 percent to $8.25
billion, missing the $8.28 billion average estimate of analysts
in the Bloomberg survey. Consumer spending in the U.S., where
AmEx gets about 70 percent of its revenue,  climbed  at a 1.5
percent annualized rate in the second quarter and retail sales
rose 0.4 percent in June, less than forecast, according to
Commerce Department figures this week.  Worldwide card spending, or billed business, advanced 7.3
percent to $237.7 billion, according to a  financial supplement .
Customers spent an average of $4,097 in the quarter, a 3.8
percent increase from a year earlier, when AmEx had fewer cards
outstanding. Expenses rose 0.6 percent to $5.66 billion, within
Chenault’s 3 percent growth threshold.  Global Network Services, a unit that licenses other banks
to issue AmEx-branded cards, would be directly affected by the
European Commission proposal, Henry said. GNS purchase volume in
European Union markets accounted for less than 15 percent of the
$100 billion spent on AmEx cards last year in Europe, the Middle
East and  Africa , he said. Total worldwide spending in 2012 was
$888.4 billion, according to the firm’s  annual report .  Travel Services  Second-quarter U.S. card income climbed 3.5 percent to $743
million and international card income rose 17 percent to $208
million, according to the statement.  The 5,400 job cuts announced in January mainly affect
travel services as consumers and businesses rely more on digital
technology for bookings. Travel commissions and fees declined 5
percent to $495 million in the period amid a slide in worldwide
sales, AmEx said.  Write-offs for loans deemed uncollectible averaged 1.97
percent for AmEx in the second quarter, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Loans at least 30 days overdue, a signal
of future defaults, averaged 1.1 percent, the lowest among the
six biggest U.S. credit-card issuers, the data show.  No Hurry  Chenault, 62, who said April 15 that he’s in no hurry to
retire, is overseeing a transition in senior management. That
same day, Ed Gilligan, 54, was promoted to president from vice
chairman, rekindling questions about succession plans. Last
month, AmEx appointed  McKesson Corp. (MCK) ’s Jeffrey C. Campbell to
succeed Henry, who’s retiring after more than 20 years with the
lender.  Former International Business Machines Corp. CEO Samuel J. Palmisano and ex- Areva SA (AREVA)  chief Anne Lauvergeon joined AmEx’s
board in March. Palmisano, 61, serves on the governance and
compensation committees, and Lauvergeon, 53, is a member of the
audit and public responsibility committees.  Palmisano is a senior adviser to Bloomberg LP, the parent
of Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  New York  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  