-- American Express Drops on Proposed EU Cap to Retail Fees
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2013-07-17T18:05:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/american-express-drops-on-proposed-eu-cap-to-retail-fees.html
American Express Co. (AXP) , the biggest
U.S. credit-card issuer by purchases, dropped the  most  in a year
after Wall Street analysts said a European Union proposal would
cut profits. Shares pared losses after the company said the
impact would be limited.  The stock slid 2.6 percent to $76.25 at 1:34 p.m. in  New
York  after an early decline of as much as 4.7 percent, the
biggest intraday drop since last July. The lender is today’s
 worst performer  in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average. (INDU)   The European Commission, the 28-nation EU’s executive arm,
will propose that so-called swipe fees, or interchange, paid by
retailers on bank-card transactions should be capped at 0.2
percent for debit payments and 0.3 percent for credit, according
to draft plans obtained by  Bloomberg News . The proposed rules
won’t affect most of AmEx’s business, the lender said in a
statement that helped ease the drop in its shares.  “Our proprietary consumer and corporate-card businesses
are not covered by the proposed pricing caps,” New York-based
AmEx said in the statement. The fee AmEx charges retailers for
accepting its cards, the so-called merchant-discount rate that
averages about 2.5 percent per transaction, “would not be
regulated,” the lender said.  ‘Head Fake’  The proposal would reduce AmEx’s earnings per share by
about 3.7 percent because the company gets 11 percent of its
business from  Europe , Morgan Stanley analysts wrote in a
research note. Credit Suisse Group AG analysts said the plan
would hurt American Express more than  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  or Visa
Europe Ltd., which already had agreed to provisionally cap some
fees.  Donald Fandetti , an analyst at Citigroup Inc., described
the reaction to the European Commission’s proposal as a “head
fake,” according to a note he published after the shares
declined and AmEx issued its statement. In a report to clients
before trading opened on the New York Stock Exchange, Fandetti
advised clients to buy the shares if they fall “as the market
could overshoot on misinformation and confusion.”  EU antitrust regulators have targeted credit- and debit-card fees for a decade, saying that the way the charges are set
is anti-competitive. Retailers oppose the fees associated with
accepting credit and debit cards. Authorities this year started
a probe into MasterCard’s charges on foreign-card transactions.  American Express is scheduled to report second-quarter
results today after U.S. markets close.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  