-- Thames Water Demand Surges as Londoners Guzzle Water in Heatwave
-- B y   M o r g a n e   L a p e y r e
-- 2013-07-17T16:39:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/thames-water-demand-surges-as-londoners-guzzle-water-in-heatwave.html
The U.K.’s longest heat wave in
seven years boosted demand for tap water, with  Thames Water
Utilities Ltd . providing the equivalent of 160 Olympic-sized
swimming pools more per day in water to its customers.  The main supplier of tap water to  London  and the Thames
Valley increased daily output 15 percent to 3 billion liters
(7.92 million gallons), it said today. Temperatures in the U.K.
have climbed above 28 degrees Celsius (82 degrees Fahrenheit)
for 11 days, the longest hot spell since 2006, according to the
Met Office.  “While we are currently a million miles away from a
drought, our treatment works are being cranked up a notch to
keep pace with the spikes in demand,” Jerry White, head of
water for Thames Water, said on the company’s website.  The temperature in the nation’s capital reached a high of
30 degrees at 4 p.m. today, according to the Met Office, the
country’s meteorological office. Temperatures are forecast by
the  BBC  to cool during the next weekend before rising again the
week of July 22.  Grass fires in the first half of this month have quadrupled
from the same period last year to 21 a day, the London Fire
Brigade reported today on its website. The Met Office today
issued a health warning for vulnerable people for the next 36
hours.  Heat-related deaths usually occur when temperatures reach
25 degrees Celsius and over, according to the National Health
Service’s heatwave plan for this year.  Kemble Water Holdings Ltd.’s Thames Water unit, with 14
million customers in the London area, is the U.K.’s largest
water supplier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Morgane Lapeyre in London at 
 mlapeyre@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  