-- Hamptons Scene: Filicia, Colicchio, Ripert Feed Urbanites
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2013-07-17T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/hamptons-scene-filicia-colicchio-ripert-feed-urbanites.html
Did you come to the Hamptons to eat
at a  New York  City restaurant? Thank you, Almond and Bobby
Van’s, Sant Ambroeus, Delmonico’s.  Try homegrown, not on a main drag but in a farmhouse with a
roadside garden on Sag Harbor Turnpike. Fresh Hamptons is a
healthful restaurant, the kind that uses coconut oil to cook
greens, coats fish in hemp-flour crust and offers gluten-free,
raw and vegan options. The raspberry vinaigrette is made with
fruit from the garden. Todd Jacobs is chef.  A green, blue and pink painting of Gandhi pops in a dining
room of warm, dark wood in a space that hasn’t changed much
since it was Bruce Buschel’s  Southfork Kitchen . Catch a glimpse
of the pink sky at sunset through the windows.  The tables are without cloths. I sat at the bar, with a
chef’s cutting mat at my place. Chalk boards in the bathrooms
are filled with kudos for the food and the phone number to call
for takeout. A glowing blonde stopped in to pick up roasted
chicken and a pink mocktail with pear puree.  Things are done a little differently here. Protein is
ordered by the quarter-, half- or whole pound. My quarter-pound
of oven-baked blue fish with lemon and pepper arrived in a bowl
by itself, looking rather lonesome. It had a rich smoky taste
but after a few bites I got bored. So I mixed in the quinoa and
sugar snap peas I’d ordered on the side, which worked because
none of the flavors were too strong.  My company at the bar included two white-haired men eating
cold soup and two attractive young couples drinking a bottle of
rose.  Holiday House  Iris Dankner was dining with friends to celebrate Holiday
House, an interior-design show house she organized, which is
open for touring until Sunday.  We’d spent the afternoon together at the house in
Bridgehampton, off Brick Kiln Road. Things I wanted to take
home: the cornflower blue/batik fabric by Aerin on the living-room couch, in Mabley Handler’s room; the entire laundry room
with two sets of washer/dryers, and the rope chandeliers in Thom
Filicia’s den. (Filicia signs copies of his book at the house
Thursday night.)  Proceeds will be about $100,000 for the  Breast Cancer
Research Foundation , Dankner said, so I raised my $16 cocktail to
her. It was a Tiptoe through the Garden of Good and Evil, made
of organic tomato vodka, tomato consomme (the recipe calls for
10 pounds of tomatoes, Tabasco, coriander), basil and garlic
salt. It’s a very light Bloody Mary with a sophisticated look in
a martini glass.  I took a speed tour of other restaurants at the Dan’s Taste
of Two Forks Saturday night.  The Gigshack  I imagined a fun night out with friends tasting a tuna
taquito from 668 The Gigshack, based in Montauk. It was a
generous helping of spicy tuna tartar served in a wonton-style
taco shell with a big slice of avocado and greens.  Also from Montauk came quinoa salad from Sea Grille
restaurant at Gurney’s Inn, full of flavor with lentils and
chickpeas, tomatoes and carrots.  The eggplant was cooked just right in Osteria Salina’s
caponata on crostini.  As for dessert, the Mexican chocolate spice ice cream in a
mini sugar cone from Joe & Liza’s Ice Cream in Sag Harbor was
“the best ice cream I’ve ever tasted” my sister declared. We
were both glad we’d saved room.  I liked the cucumber white wine mint sorbet by the
Sorbabes, but my favorite was fresh peaches and strained Greek
yogurt on top of ginger oat cookies from Anke’s Fit Bakery. This
one you’ll have to make yourself; the cookies are available at
the Juicy Naam, Springs General Store and Jack’s Stir Brew.  Chefs & Champagne  The next big tasting event is Chefs & Champagne organized
by the James Beard Foundation, featuring chefs from Hoboken to
Sag Harbor and beyond. The event is at Wolffer Estate on
Saturday night. Jacobs, the chef at Fresh Hamptons, is set to
serve  Long Island  duckling breast with wild greens.  Sunday is  Taste of Montauk  organized by the Chamber of
Commerce. East by Northeast is serving lobster gazpacho, the
Coast will offer spicy fluke sushi with scallions. Theo Foscolo
will make root beer floats with his small-batch Miss Lady Root
Beer. Local vineyard Macari and five others will pour.  On July 28,  Tom Colicchio ’s restaurant at Topping Rose
House and Matthew Michel of the Rolling in Dough Pizza truck
will be at Meet the Chefs to benefit the Hayground School in
Bridgehampton. The elite, $1,000 ticket is a dinner afterward at
the home of Toni Ross, of Nick & Toni’s, honoring Le Bernardin’s
 Eric Ripert .  Or you could cook at home. Get out of the Citarella rut and
head to Round Swamp Farm on Three Mile Harbor Road. The market
is stocked with the farm’s own golden beets and carrots. Pick up
fish from the seafood counter, olive oil, and decadent homemade
brownies that taste like chocolate molten cake, all in a store
the size of a New York studio, with a much bigger parking lot.  ( Amanda Gordon  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include Laurie Muchnick on  books ,  Warwick
Thompson  on London theater.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at 
 agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  