-- Land Securities Vacancies Steady as London Demand Rises
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2013-07-17T07:58:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/land-securities-vacancy-rate-stays-steady-as-london-demand-rises.html
Land Securities Group Plc (LAND) , the
U.K.’s largest real estate investment trust by market value,
said vacancies at its properties were little changed as demand
for stores and offices in London grew.  Vacancies were 2 percent in the quarter ending June 30,
about the same as the previous three months, the London-based
company said in a statement today. Retail properties were 97.2
percent leased, and the number of visitors to Land Securities’
malls fell 2.9 percent from a year earlier. Stores with tenants
in administration, a U.K. form of bankruptcy, accounted for 1.2
percent of vacancies, compared with 1.3 percent in the first
quarter.  “The retail markets across the U.K., they remain pretty
difficult,” Chief Executive Officer Rob Noel said in an
interview. “We’re working very hard to keep the portfolio full,
which we are, because we’re in the right places, but it’s a
tough game.”  Britain’s commercial property market is improving as
lenders become more willing to provide credit and overseas real
estate buyers look beyond the  London  area, research firm
Investment Property Databank Ltd. said earlier this month. Ernst
& Young’s Item Club on July 15 raised its U.K. economic-growth
forecast for this year to 1.1 percent from 0.6 percent in April
on expectations of a pickup in  consumer spending , which may
boost demand for retail space.  Demand for stores and office buildings in the U.K. capital
is increasing, Noel said in the statement. Three stores being
developed next to Piccadilly Lights in central London have been
pre-leased to Barclays Plc, Gap Inc. and Alliance Boots Plc,
according to the statement.  Land Securities won local-government approval on July 9 for
what could be its most profitable development project, a plan to
turn an  office tower  in London’s Victoria neighborhood into 206
apartments. No decision has been made on whether to bring in a
partner to develop the property, Noel said by phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  