-- Mantega Cancels G-20 Trip as Budget Cuts Trump Currency Wars
-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n   a n d   M a r i a   L u i z a   R a b e l l o
-- 2013-07-17T15:47:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/mantega-cancels-g-20-trip-as-budget-cuts-trump-currency-wars.html
Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  canceled his participation at a meeting of finance
chiefs from the world’s biggest economies as he focuses on
restoring investor confidence in the government’s fiscal
accounts.  Mantega, who was scheduled to travel today to Moscow for
the Group of 20 meetings, will instead meet President Dilma Rousseff to discuss  government spending  cuts to meet budget
targets and slow inflation, according to a  Finance Ministry 
press office spokesman, who asked not to be named because of
internal policy.  Standard & Poor’s  last month lowered its outlook for
Brazil’s BBB credit rating, citing a loss of credibility in the
government’s fiscal accounts. Rousseff pledged last month to
keep a lid on spending to help control inflation at the same
time she vowed to improve health, education and public
transportation in response to the country’s biggest street
protests in more than two decades.  Members of the government’s economic team are divided on
the size of eventual spending cuts, with some officials
expressing concern it could damp economic growth, O Estado de S.
Paulo newspaper reported today. Last week, Mantega said that
budget cuts wouldn’t surpass 15 billion reais ($6.7 billion).  Latin America ’s biggest economy is forecast to expand 2.31
percent this year, according to a central bank survey of
economists published yesterday.  Currency War  Mantega in recent years has used the G-20 as a forum to
criticize the monetary policy of advanced nations for flooding
the global economy with liquidity that has pushed up the value
of emerging market currencies.  In the past three months, as the real has plunged more than
any other major currency in response to speculation the  Federal
Reserve  will curtail its program of $85 billion in monthly bond
purchases, he’s begun unwinding  capital controls  intended to
protect Brazil from what he’s called the “global currency
wars.”  The real fell 10.8 percent in since April 14, the second-biggest decline among the 16 most-traded currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. The currency rose 0.8 percent to 2.2351 per  U.S.
dollar  at 12:45 p.m. local time.  Mantega, who last November skipped a G-20 summit meeting in
Mexico City, will be represented by the Finance Ministry’s chief
international negotiator, Carlos Cozendey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Goodman in Bogota at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Luiza Rabello in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  