-- Lap Dances Targeted by Philadelphia for Amusement Revenue
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2013-07-17T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/lap-dances-targeted-by-philadelphia-for-amusement-revenue-taxes.html
It’s one thing to watch a scantily
clad woman twirl around poles. It’s another to pay her to
undulate over your lap.  That’s the stance Philadelphia is taking with at least two
strip clubs, Club Risque and Cheerleaders. The nation’s fifth-largest city, which taxes the establishments’ entrance fees, is
trying to collect levies on lap dances as well.  The city is pressing its case as it hires a revenue
collection officer and goes after delinquent property tax, which
is fifth-highest among U.S. cities surveyed last month by Pew
Charitable Trusts. Mayor Michael Nutter has pledged an extra $28
million to the school district -- which has a $304 million
deficit -- from improved collections.  “It’s smart business” to apply the tax code to erotic
dancing, said Michael Gillen, director of the tax accounting
group at Duane Morris LLP in Philadelphia. “They have to be
foolish not to expand their reach.”  New York  and other cities also are trying to collect more
revenue as they recover from the worst recession since the Great
Depression and they are looking in innovative places.  The adult-entertainment industry has waged and lost several
taxation battles. New York in October rejected a bid by “Nite
Moves,” a strip club, to get a break on the grounds that it
provided musical art performances. The Texas Supreme Court three
years ago upheld a per-customer tax in nude businesses that
serve alcohol.  Pay Up  At issue in Philadelphia is a 5 percent tax that applies to
any amusement in the city, including concerts, movies and strip-club entry fees. The city collected $21.9 million in those taxes
in the fiscal year that ended in July 2012, documents show.  Now the city says lap dances are distinct amusements and
should be taxed, according to George Bochetto, a Philadelphia
lawyer representing the two clubs.  Philadelphia sent a $486,483 bill covering lap dances
performed at Cheerleaders and charged Club Risque $320,540,
according to documents provided by Bochetto. The city is seeking
principal, interest and penalties over three years.  It’s not clear how much the city would reap from collecting
lap-dance levies from every club, of which there are dozens.  Dirty Santa  At Club Risque, which is advertising a Christmas in July
party next week featuring “naughty elves,” lap dances start at
$20 and can cost $200 in a semi-private area. The club already
pays the amusement tax on entry fees as high as $15, depending
on the day and time, according to the documents.  Bochetto says the city’s approach isn’t fair, arguing that
a personal performance doesn’t constitute a separate amusement
and shouldn’t be taxed. He’s challenging the city’s tax
assessment on behalf of the two clubs.  Bochetto said he will press his clients’ appeal in front of
a city tax board next week and said he’ll go to court if needed.
In papers filed with the city, he said dancers pay their own
taxes and provide their own costumes and props. In exchange for
security, the performers give the businesses a percentage of
their earnings at the end of each shift.  “The city started saying, ‘OK, we need more money, and
here, maybe, is a way we can scare up some more money without
having to raise anybody’s taxes’,” Bochetto said.  Mark McDonald, a spokesman for Nutter, wouldn’t say how
many strip clubs it’s trying to tax for lap dances.  McDonald also declined to comment on the bills for
Cheerleaders and Club Risque.  Afternoon Shift  The city and school district are owed $515.4 million in
delinquent taxes and penalties, according to a report last month
from the Pew Charitable Trusts, a Philadelphia-based research
and public policy group. Pew surveyed the nation’s most populous
metropolitan areas and six others that, like Philadelphia, have
poverty rates of more than 25 percent.  At Cheerleaders yesterday afternoon, one customer sat at
the bar chatting with a dancer in a lacy black top as a woman in
a blue G-string gyrated on a stage. Stale smoke hung in the air.  Outside, John Adams, 33, of Philadelphia, a former manager
at another strip club in the city, said applying the fees is a
“horrible” idea.  “It’s going to be impossible to regulate,” Adams said,
adding that prices can vary widely. “Sometimes it’s negotiated.
Sometimes, a woman just sits on your lap.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  