-- Apple, AT&T, Microsoft Stink Less: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2013-07-17T21:29:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/apple-at-t-microsoft-stink-less-rich-jaroslovsky.html
It’s hard for a company that’s
improved a pilloried product to announce to the world, “Hey, we
stink less than we used to.” So,  Apple (AAPL) ,  AT&T (T)  and Microsoft, I’m
here to do it for you.  With relatively little fanfare, the three tech giants have
significantly improved offerings that, in their earlier forms,
earned scathing criticism and damaged reputations: AT&T’s voice
service, Apple Maps and Windows 8.  The best thing that ever happened to AT&T Mobility was also
the worst: the four years it held exclusive U.S. rights to
Apple’s iPhone.  From a business standpoint, it was undoubtedly a winner,
bringing millions of customers. From a user standpoint, it was a
disaster.  AT&T’s network was overwhelmed by the bandwidth-munching
hordes of iPhone users, giving it a well-deserved reputation for
uncompleted and dropped calls and making it the butt of  late-night TV humor .  AT&T “literally got crushed by the iPhone, and public
perception was even worse,” says Bill Moore, president and
chief executive officer of  RootMetrics , a Bellevue, Washington-based firm that uses crowd-sourced data to help measure wireless
carriers’ performance.  Carrier Choice  Over the last several years, AT&T has poured tens of
billions of dollars into improving its network. Meanwhile, the
2011 end of its exclusive deal gave iPhone users a choice of
carriers. Verizon Wireless,  Sprint (S)  and most recently T-Mobile US
now offer the iPhone to their customers.  In recent months, I began noticing that the number of
dropped and uncompleted calls in the San Francisco Bay Area was
diminishing. Even that long-time dead spot on the waterfront
embarrassingly close to AT&T Park, home of baseball’s San
Francisco Giants, finally had service.  The improvement isn’t an illusion, says Moore, nor is it
limited to just a couple of high-visibility markets like San
Francisco and New York. According to RootMetrics data, the
number of dropped calls on the AT&T network fell by more than
half in the first six months of 2013 from a year earlier.  By most quality measures, AT&T still remains well behind
 Verizon. (VZ)  Of 125 markets surveyed by RootMetrics, Verizon is
either top-rated for voice service or shares the top spot in 68
markets, to 42 for AT&T.  Still, you can’t deny the progress. And if you don’t
believe me, just drive down to AT&T Park.  Apple Maps  Here’s more good news: You can now trust Apple Maps to get
you there. Last September, when I reviewed the app introduced
with the iPhone 5, the area around the ballpark was one of those
where Apple’s mapping service became confused.  At least the park showed up on the map. Immediately after
launching the app, Apple was flooded by complaints about missing
landmarks, sparse and  misplaced  points of  interest  and puzzling
suggested routes to intended destinations.  The result: A humiliating public apology from Chief
Executive Officer  Tim Cook  and an unexpected opportunity for
Google. Apple’s arch-rival plunged into the breach with a
terrific app, which it just updated with a bunch of new features
for both Apple users and phones and tablets running Google’s own
Android operating system.  Flyovers  Since the initial firestorm, the company has addressed
Apple Maps’ most glaring issues. There are now many more points
of interest. Three-dimensional flyover views have been added for
lots of cities, including Honolulu, Glasgow and Paris. Whole
countries have been made over, notably  Japan .  Most of the changes have been made with little fanfare.
Apple executives caution they aren’t hanging any “Mission
Accomplished” banners just yet. Cook’s most recent comment, at
a conference in May, was that Maps was “greatly improved, but
we’re not there yet.”  That’s about right.  Google (GOOG)  Maps, with its multi-year head
start, is still far better for things like public transit and
traffic information. But Apple Maps is making headway. It always
was beautiful and easy to use. Now it actually works.  Plummeting PCs  In Microsoft’s case, many  critics  point to Windows 8 as a
major reason why PC shipments are plummeting -- down 10.9
percent in the second quarter from a year earlier, according to
the Gartner Group.  Whether that’s fair, Windows 8’s attempt to be all things
to all users has proven to be a problem. Its colorful, tiled
Start screen is supposed to bring Windows into the era of
tablets and touch screens -- but makes little sense for existing
owners or buyers of non-touch PCs.  Microsoft (MSFT)  is preparing to release an update this fall,
Windows 8.1, that begins to remedy some of the problems. For one
thing, it allows users to bypass the Start screen and boot
directly into the desktop, a step-saver for people who still
mostly use traditional Windows programs.  It also resurrects the traditional Start button -- sort of.
The button is now back, though instead of opening a menu of
programs and documents, it throws you back to the Start screen.
A right-click summons a list of shortcuts to various
housekeeping functions like network connections and power
options.  I’ll have a fuller look at Windows 8.1 once it’s released
in final form, probably this fall. In the meantime, Microsoft --
like Apple and AT&T -- deserves some credit for acknowledging
user pain points, and doing something about them.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include Jason Harper on  cars  and Amanda
Gordon on  Scene .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Jaroslovsky in San Francisco at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .
On Twitter:  www.twitter.com/richjaro .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 