-- ArcelorMittal Scraps India Steel Mill on Delays, Land Disputes
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2013-07-17T16:24:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/arcelormittal-scraps-india-steel-mill-on-delays-land-disputes.html
ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s biggest
steelmaker, scrapped plans to build a 12 million-ton-a-year mill
in  India ’s eastern state of Odisha after delays in getting land
and mining permits for iron ore made the project unviable.  Posco of South Korea said a day earlier that the steelmaker
is exiting a project in the southern state of Karnataka, citing
similar reasons as today’s by ArcelorMittal. ArcelorMittal’s
projects in Karnataka and the eastern state of Jharkhand are
making steady progress, the Luxembourg-based company said in an
e-mailed statement.  The high-profile exits undermine India’s efforts to secure
foreign investment in order to narrow the current account
deficit and bolster the currency, which declined to a record
this month. Steelmakers have faced land disputes and
bureaucratic delays in granting permits amid slowing demand.  “India is no longer an attractive destination for
steelmakers,” said Prasad Baji, an analyst at Edelweiss
Financial Services in Mumbai. “Consumption is not growing as
expected and getting a mine has become extremely messy.”  The nation’s demand for the alloy in the three months ended
June 30 rose at the slowest pace in five years as construction
slowed and customers deferred purchases of houses and cars due
to high interest rates. Steel consumption advanced 0.2 percent
to 17.8 million metric tons.  Globally, steelmakers face declining profitability amid the
economic slowdown.  Posco (005490) , South Korea’s biggest steelmaker, in
April reported a worse-than-estimated profit for the first
quarter, reflecting depressed prices. ArcelorMittal reported its
third quarterly loss in a row in the first quarter.  ArcelorMittal is building a 12 million-ton-a-year mill in
Jharkhand and another with half that capacity in Karnataka.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in New Delhi at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  