-- Mariano Rivera Wins All-Star MVP as AL Breaks Losing Streak
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-07-17T04:36:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/mariano-rivera-wins-all-star-game-mvp-as-al-snaps-losing-streak.html
Mariano Rivera  helped the American
League end a three-year losing streak in his final appearance in
 Major League Baseball ’s All-Star Game, combining with nine other
pitchers to limit the National League to three hits in a 3-0
victory at New York’s Citi Field.  The 43-year-old Rivera, who’s said he’s retiring after the
season, entered last night’s game in the eighth inning to a
standing ovation -- from both fans and fellow players -- and
retired all three batters he faced.  “It’s been a privilege,” Rivera told the crowd after
receiving the All-Star Most Valuable Player trophy and a car in
a post-game ceremony. “I couldn’t be more happy.”  While Rivera didn’t extend his All-Star record of four
saves, he helped the AL finish off a win that gives its champion
home-field advantage in the  World Series .  Since MLB decided in 2003 that its All-Star Game would
determine home-field advantage, the winning league is 7-3 in the
World Series. That includes the last four champions. World
Series participants with home-field advantage have won 25 of the
past 32 titles dating back to 1980.  The AL, after losing 8-0 in last year’s All-Star Game in
Kansas City and being held to a total of two runs over the past
three years, scored single runs in the fourth and fifth innings
following leadoff doubles. Meantime, the NL’s three hits -- one
by  David Wright  of the host  New York Mets  -- were just one more
than the record low of two by the NL in 1990.  It marked the first time in the All-Star Game’s history,
which dates back to 1933, there were back-to-back shutouts.  New York  It was also the ninth All-Star Game held in New York, the
most of any city. Tom Seaver, whose 198 wins are the most in
Mets’ history, threw out the ceremonial first pitch and then
turned the ball over to current Mets ace Matt Harvey, who
started the game for the NL and allowed one hit over two
scoreless innings, with three strikeouts.  The 24-year-old right-hander was the 11th pitcher to start
an All-Star Game in his home ballpark and the first since  Roger Clemens  did it for the Houston Astros in 2004. Harvey was the
youngest All-Star starting pitcher since former Mets pitcher
 Dwight Gooden , who was 23 at the 1988 game.  “It being in New York and starting, as a kid I don’t think
you could have dreamed of doing something like that,” Harvey
said. “It was a tremendous honor.”  Harvey worked out of early trouble, as he allowed a leadoff
double to Los Angeles Angels outfielder Mike Trout and then hit
Robinson Cano near the knee with a pitch, forcing the  New York
Yankees ’ second baseman to leave the game. Harvey, who leads the
NL in strikeouts at the All-Star break, came back to strike out
two of the next three batters, including  Miguel Cabrera  of the
 Detroit Tigers , to end the threat.  AL Runs  The AL took a 1-0 lead in the fourth inning when Cabrera
led off with a double off losing pitcher Patrick Corbin of the
 Arizona  Diamondbacks, moved to third on a single by Chris Davis
of the Baltimore Orioles and scored on a sacrifice fly.  Adam Jones  of the Orioles led off the fifth with a double
off the  Philadelphia Phillies ’  Cliff Lee , went to third on a
single by  Joe Mauer  of the Minnesota Twins and scored on a
groundout to give the AL a 2-0 lead. In the eighth inning,
Kansas City Royals catcher Salvador Perez led off with a single
and scored on a double by the Cleveland Indians’ Jason Kipnis.  Rivera, whose 638 regular-season saves are the most in
baseball history, entered the game in the bottom of the eighth,
jogging onto an empty field to Metallica’s “Enter Sandman.”
Rivera received a standing ovation from the crowd of 45,186,
while fellow All-Stars from both teams stood outside their
dugouts and applauded him for more than a minute.  Unplanned Tribute  Rivera tipped his cap and gave gestures of thanks to both
fans and players before retiring the side in order.  Tigers outfielder Torii Hunter said the players’ tribute to
Rivera was unplanned.  “We all just kind of did it together,” Hunter said in the
AL clubhouse. “It was special. It was his moment. Yeah, we’re
here for the All-Star Game and we’re happy, but Mariano is well
respected in the game, not only for what he does on the field
but for the person he is off it.”  Joe Nathan  of the  Texas Rangers , who once played for Stony
Brook University on Long Island, New York, pitched the ninth
inning for the AL and allowed a two-out double by Paul
Goldschmidt of the Diamondbacks before retiring Pedro Alvarez of
the Pittsburgh Pirates on a pop-up to end the game.  The AL, which had gone 12-0-1 from 1998-2009 before their
recent skid, now holds a 44-38-2 lead in the series.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  