-- Arthur Sues Cricket Australia Over Firing as Team Coach
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-07-17T03:45:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/arthur-sues-cricket-australia-over-firing-as-team-coach.html
Mickey Arthur, the first overseas-born coach of  Australia ’s national cricket team, said he sued
Cricket Australia for being “sacked and scapegoated,” as
details of his claim were leaked.  Harmers Workplace Lawyers  said in a joint statement with
Arthur the complaint was filed last week with the Fair Work
Commission in Sydney. Arthur was fired June 24 and replaced with
Darren Lehmann 16 days before the start of the Ashes series,
which resumes tomorrow at Lord’s in  London  with Australia
trailing  England  1-0.  “The grounds include racial discrimination,” the legal
firm and Arthur said in the statement. A private conciliation
between the parties has been scheduled for next week, according
to the statement.  The 45-year-old Arthur, who had two years to run on his
contract, is seeking as much as A$4 million ($3.7 million) in
compensation, claiming discrimination because he was South
African and “didn’t understand the Australian way,” Channel
Seven reported yesterday, citing the filings.  Melbourne-based Cricket Australia said in a statement
yesterday that it’s “confident in its position on this matter
and is sure it will get resolved in an appropriate manner.”  Arthur said he was “extremely upset and disappointed”
after the confidential documents, which Channel Seven said
outlined “major tension” between Australia captain  Michael Clarke  and his former deputy  Shane Watson , were leaked. The Fair
Work Commission said it’s not allowed by law to disclose the
details of the documents.  Sensitive Matters  “The matters raised in my application to the FWC
concerning issues within the Australian cricket team are very
sensitive, which is why I was at pains to keep them
confidential,” Arthur said. “I have kept them confidential,
unfortunately others have now made them public.”  Arthur, who was contracted until the end of the 2015
Cricket  World Cup , was replaced because of Australia’s
“struggles both on and off the field” during this year’s tour
of  India  and the Champions Trophy tournament, Cricket Australia
said at the time of his dismissal. The governing body said
Arthur was ultimately responsible for the team’s failure to
improve its discipline, consistency of behavior and
accountability for performance.  Arthur was hired in November 2011 and led the team to 10
wins, six losses and three draws in 19 Tests. His tenure was
marked by discipline breaches in the squad, the latest being
batsman  David Warner ’s suspension last month for punching
England’s Joe Root in a bar.  Players Dropped  In March, Watson was among four players dropped for the
third Test in India for failing to submit feedback on how they
and the squad could improve. Watson returned to skipper
Australia in the fourth match in place of the injured Clarke and
the team was swept 4-0.  The 14-run defeat to England in the Ashes opener three days
ago was Australia’s fifth straight loss in elite five-day
matches, its worst run since losing six in a row in 1984.  Wicketkeeper  Brad Haddin , who took over as vice-captain
after Watson relinquished the role in April, said yesterday at a
news conference that there was no feud in the squad.  “The Australian dressing room is fine,” Haddin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  