-- Asian Stock Futures Climb as Bernanke Eases Concerns on Tapering
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-07-17T23:08:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/asian-stock-futures-climb-as-bernanke-eases-concerns-on-tapering.html
Asian equity futures rose,
indicating the regional benchmark may return to a two-month
high, after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke allayed
concern the U.S. is planning to curb stimulus.  American Depositary Receipts of BHP Billiton Ltd., the
world’s biggest mining company, climbed 0.5 percent from
yesterday’s close of trading in Sydney as metals prices
advanced. ADRs of Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd., the largest cargo
and freight carrier, gained 0.2 percent from the close in Hong
Kong. Shares of  TDK Corp. (6762)  may be active in  Tokyo  after the
Nikkei newspaper reported profit at the manufacturer of
electronic parts fell 50 percent.  Futures on  Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  expiring in
September closed at 14,670 in  Chicago  yesterday, up from 14,600
at the close in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at
14,660 in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on  Australia ’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index advanced 0.5 percent and New Zealand’s NZX 50
Index rose 0.1 percent. Futures on Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index
gained 0.5 percent.  Bernanke “struck a perfect accord between the doves and
the hawks,” Evan Lucas, a Melbourne-based market strategist at
IG Markets Ltd., a provider of trading services for equities,
currencies and commodities, said in a telephone interview.
“He’s got the language right to keep the market happy. It puts
a lot of minds at ease and you’ll certainly sees risk assets on
a far better footing.”  Futures contracts on the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index
of mainland Chinese companies trading in Hong Kong advanced 0.6
percent. The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. rose 1 percent in New York yesterday.  Bernanke Testimony  The Fed’s asset purchases “are by no means on a preset
course” and could even be expanded should economic conditions
warrant, Bernanke said in prepared testimony to the House
Financial Services Committee yesterday.  Weekly U.S. jobless claims data due today will help
investors assess the outlook for the Fed’s $85 billion-a-month
bond buying program, which has contained increases in borrowing
costs and stoked global equity gains over the past three years.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index, the benchmark regional
equities gauge, rose 5 percent this year through yesterday, with
consumer discretionary stocks leading the gain and energy shares
falling the most among the 10 industry groups on the measure.
The gauge is trading within 0.1 percent of the 135.96 level
reached July 16, the highest mark since May 29.  That left the index trading at 13.3 times estimated
earnings compared with 15.2 for the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) 
and 13.3 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed today. The S&P 500 rose 0.3 percent yesterday after
Bernanke’s testimony, having fallen from a record high the
previous day.  The S&P GSCI Spot Index of raw materials prices added 0.1
percent yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  