-- U.S. Stocks Advance on Jobless Claims, Dollar Strengthens
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   A l e x   B a r i n k a
-- 2013-07-18T21:39:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/asian-futures-rise-as-bernanke-damps-qe-tapering-concerns.html
U.S. stocks rose, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to an intraday record, amid better-than-forecast  earnings  and data on jobless claims and
Philadelphia-area manufacturing that bolstered optimism in the
economy. Treasuries retreated while the dollar rose.  The S&P 500 added 0.5 percent to 1,689.38. at 4 p.m. in  New
York . The Bloomberg  Dollar Index  added 0.2 percent as the U.S.
currency strengthened against 12 of 16 major peers. The yen
weakened versus 15 amid bets Group of 20 finance officials will
endorse Japan’s monetary easing. Canada’s dollar rallied on a
jump in wholesale sales. Ten-year Treasury yields added five
basis points to 2.54 percent after declining for three straight
days. Oil rose to an almost 16-month high, climbing 1.5 percent
to $108.04 a barrel.  The S&P 500 opened higher after government data showed
jobless claims declined by 24,000 to 334,000 last week, the
fewest since early May and less than the median economist
estimate. Stocks extended gains as the Federal Reserve Bank of
Philadelphia’s general economic index surged to a two-year high.
Russian Deputy Finance Minister Sergei Storchak said the G-20,
which meets this weekend, probably won’t call for a tapering of
stimulus in nations including Japan.  “Jobless claims were a little bit better than expected
which gives some comfort,”  Richard Sichel , who oversees about
$1.9 billion as chief investment officer at Philadelphia Trust
Co., said by phone. “And then you have earnings rolling full
steam now so it becomes a stock-by-stock market.”  U.S. Movers  Among U.S. stocks moving on earnings news today,
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  climbed 1.8 percent as the
biggest computer-services company raised its annual forecast.
UnitedHealth Group Inc. jumped 6.5 percent, the most since 2011
on a closing basis, to a record after profit beat estimates as a
Brazilian acquisition and gains in U.S. health-insurance plans
swelled enrollment by 25 percent.  Intel Corp. (INTC)  slid 3.8 percent
after the largest semiconductor maker released sales forecasts
yesterday that fell short of some analysts’ estimates.  Morgan Stanley rose 4.4 percent after profit topped
estimates. Of the 82 index members that have released earnings
so far in the reporting season, 73 percent have topped analysts’
profit projections, and 52 percent have beaten on sales,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Some 32 companies in
the  S&P 500  are reporting results today.  Fed stimulus and better-than-forecast corporate earnings
have fueled a surge in stocks worldwide, with the S&P 500
jumping about 150 percent from its March 2009 low. Today’s rally
pushed the index’s valuation to 15.3 times estimated 2013
earnings, the highest since April 2010.  Fund Flows  Equity exchange-traded funds and mutual funds are
attracting money at the fastest rate since January. Investors
put about $27 billion to equity ETFs so far this month after
$19.1 million of withdrawals in June, according to Bloomberg
data tracking about 1,500 securities. Mutual funds that invest
in U.S. shares had $4.55 billion of inflows during the week
through July 10, ending seven consecutive weeks of withdrawals,
according to data from the  Investment Company Institute  released
yesterday.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  spoke to lawmakers in the
Senate today as investors assess the outlook for the Fed’s $85
billion-a-month bond-buying program, which capped increases in
borrowing costs and stoked a 33 percent jump in global equities
in the past three years. Stocks rallied yesterday as Bernanke
told a House committee that there was no preset course for the
central bank’s asset purchases, tempering speculation that the
central bank would begin to taper stimulus as early as
September.  Fed Volatility  Speculation about the Fed’s plans for quantitative easing
have whipsawed markets in recent months, leading to a 5.8
percent dip and recovery in the S&P 500 since May, when Bernanke
first told Congress that reducing bond purchases was possible
this year. Ten-year Treasury yields jumped more than a full
percentage point from 1.63 percent at the beginning of May to
2.74 percent on July 5.  Bernanke told senators that one reason for the recent rise
in long-term  interest rates  is the unwinding of leveraged and
“excessively risky” investing.  “It’s probably a good thing to have that happen although
the tightening that’s associated with that is unwelcome,” he
said in response to a question from the Senate Banking Committee
today in Washington.  The U.S. sold 10-year Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities at a positive yield for the first time since November
2011 with investors unwilling to pay a premium to guard against
the threat of rising consumer prices.  ‘Very Cheap’  The $15 billion in TIPS were auctioned at what’s known as a
high yield of 0.384 percent, compared with a forecast of 0.395
percent, the average estimate in a survey of seven of the
 Federal Reserve ’s 21 primary dealers that are required to bid on
U.S. debt sales. The last nine sales of the securities were at
negative yields.  “TIPS got to very cheap levels relative to fundamentals
and are now starting to offer some value” said Michael Pond,
head of global inflation-linked research at Barclays PLC, one of
21 primary dealers that are obligated to bid at U.S. government
debt auctions. “The Fed has brought the dual back to the dual
mandate by increasing communication around inflation, which
should bolster the idea that the Fed is serious about pushing
inflation up.”  Commodity Leaders  West Texas Intermediate discount to Brent narrowed
to less than $1 for the first time since 2010 as inventories
decreased at Cushing,  Oklahoma , a major U.S. hub.  A 5 percent jump in natural gas and gains of more than 1
percent in cotton, oil and cocoa led the S&P GSCI Index of 24
commodities to a 0.7 percent gain and its highest level since
April. Natural gas futures reached an almost one-month high
after U.S. stockpiles climbed by less than forecast last week.  Gold futures advanced for the third time in four days on
signs of increasing physical purchases. Tanaka Kikinzoku Kogyo
K.K., Japan’s biggest gold retailer, said today its sales rose
threefold in the second quarter from the previous three months,
as lower prices attracted consumers. There are signs of firming
demand from China to Japan, Barclays wrote in a July 15 report.
Through yesterday, prices rebounded 8.4 percent since reaching a
34-month low on June 28 as the decline spurred more buying of
coins, bars and jewelry.  The yen’s drop extended yesterday’s 0.5 percent decline
versus its U.S. counterpart. The Bloomberg Dollar Index, a gauge
of the greenback against 10 peers, climbed for a second day.  Yen Prediction  “We see the yen weakening further,” said Kengo Suzuki,
the chief currency strategist at Mizuho Securities Co. in  Tokyo ,
a unit of Japan’s third-biggest bank by market value. “Japan’s
monetary policy is tilted toward further accommodation.”  The Aussie dollar slid 0.7 percent to 91.71 U.S. cents,
while the country’s 10-year yield sank as much as nine basis
points to 3.65 percent, a level not seen since June 20.
Australia’s business confidence index for the next three months
dropped to minus 1 in the second quarter from 2 in the previous
three-month period, National Australia Bank Ltd. said in a
survey released today.  The Canadian dollar rose against all 16 of its most-traded
peers, gaining momentum from signs a sluggish economic recovery
is gaining momentum. The loonie erased a loss against its U.S.
counterpart after Canadian wholesale sales rose at the fastest
pace in more than two years in May, reaching a record on sales
of fertilizer and food.  Corporate Bonds  The cost of insuring against losses on corporate bonds
dropped. The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of credit-default swaps
on 125 investment-grade companies declined almost 4 basis point
to 101.7, the lowest since May.  Four shares  advanced  for each that declined in the Stoxx
600. Ericsson fell 4.8 percent after second-quarter sales missed
estimates. Akzo Nobel NV slid 8 percent, the most since 2008, as
Europe’s largest paintmaker reported declining earnings and
sales.  Publicis Groupe SA (PUB) , the world’s third-biggest advertising
company, climbed 3.4 percent in Paris trading as first-half
profit rose 15 percent. WPP Plc, the biggest advertising
company, advanced 3.6 percent.  The volume of shares changing hands in Stoxx 600 companies
was 4.5 percent less than the 30-day average, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Emerging Markets  Russia’s  Micex index (INDEXCF)  sank 1.1 percent, the most in four
weeks, after a court sentenced Alexey Navalny, an opposition
leader and critic of President  Vladimir Putin , to five years in
prison. The benchmark Micex Index snapped a five-day winning
streak.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index fell 0.3 percent for the
first drop in eight days, snapping the longest winning streak
since January. Benchmark indexes in  South Korea  and Taiwan
dropped at least 0.6 percent, while India’s Sensex index
advanced 0.9 percent.  Argentine bonds rallied the most in four months on
speculation the  International Monetary Fund  is considering
supporting Argentina in its request to have the U.S.  Supreme
Court  review its case with defaulted bondholders. IMF Managing
Director  Christine Lagarde  will ask the fund’s executive board
to submit a friend-of-the-court brief in support of Argentina’s
June 24 petition to the Supreme Court to take a case involving
holdout creditors from the nation’s $95 billion default in 2001,
two people familiar with the request said.  The Shanghai Composite Index slid 1.1 percent and has lost
2.1 percent in two days. The IMF said yesterday China’s economic
growth may trail forecasts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Barinka in New York at 
 abarinka2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  