-- Asiana Sued by Two Passengers in San Francisco Crash
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-07-17T11:53:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/asiana-sued-by-two-passengers-in-san-francisco-crash.html
Asiana Airlines Inc. (020560)  was sued for
negligence by two passengers on the plane that crashed while
landing at San Francisco International Airport on July 6,
killing three people and injuring 181 others.  Younga Jun Machorro, her son Benjamin Hyo-in Machorro, and
her husband Hector Machorro, who wasn’t on the flight, claimed
the plane’s pilots failed to observe fundamental procedures for
a visual landing approach, monitor flight conditions and react
to those conditions, according to a complaint filed July 15 in
federal court in San Francisco.  “The Asiana crash occurred due to the gross negligence and
recklessness of the Asiana flight crew,” Michael Verna, the
Machorros’ attorney, said in the complaint.  The family members, who reside in the San Francisco area,
seek at least $5 million in damages. The Machorros purchased
their tickets in the San Francisco area and were flying home,
according to the complaint.  Younga Machorro and her son suffered extreme bodily and
mental injuries and Hector Machorro lost the comfort and
consortium of his wife, Verna said in the complaint.  The Asiana Boeing Co. 777 struck a seawall short of a
runway, slammed to the ground and spun off the tarmac. The
flight from  Seoul  had 307 people on board, including 16 crew
members. About 141 passengers were from China, 77 from South
Korea and 61 from the U.S.  The Machorros’ lawsuit is  governed by the Montreal
Convention, Verna said in the complaint. The treaty states the
place where cases may be handled is based on factors including a
passenger’s final destination.  The case is Machorro v. Asiana Airlines, 13-cv-03286, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  California  (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  