-- ASML Raises 2013 Sales Forecast as Profit Beats Estimates
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-07-17T07:59:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/asml-raises-2013-sales-forecast-as-profit-beats-estimates.html
ASML Holding NV (ASML) , Europe’s largest
semiconductor-equipment supplier, raised its full-year sales
target as increased spending by memory-chip producers helped
second-quarter profit beat analyst estimates.  Revenue this year, excluding the acquisition of light-source manufacturer Cymer Inc., will probably rise 5.7 percent
to 5 billion euros ($6.6 billion), Veldhoven, Netherlands-based
ASML said today in a statement. That compares with a forecast
reiterated in April that sales would match the 4.73 billion
euros posted in 2012.  Micron Technology Inc. (MU) , one of ASML’s main memory
customers, reported its first quarterly profit since 2011 last
month as the U.S. maker of dynamic random access memory and Nand
flash memory chips benefited from industry price increases. In
April, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., the world’s
largest contract maker of chips, forecast record quarterly sales
and raised its spending plan amid rising smartphone demand.  ASLM’s sales-forecast increase “is largely driven by the
fact that our memory customers, especially our DRAM customers,
are coming back,” Chief Executive Officer Peter Wennink said
today in an online video statement.  Earlier Forecast  Second-quarter net income, excluding Cymer, climbed to 239
million euros from 96 million euros in the previous three
months, exceeding the 207 million-euros average of 13 analyst
estimates  compiled  by Bloomberg. Sales increased to 1.16 billion
euros from 892 million euros in the first quarter, the company
said. In April, ASML forecast second-quarter sales of about 1.1
billion euros.  ASML  climbed  as much as 2 percent to 67.79 euros and was
trading up 1.1 percent at 67.21 euros as of 9:56 a.m. in
Amsterdam, headed for the highest level since the company’s
March 1995 initial public offering, based on closing prices.
ASML was the best-performing stock on the 18-company Euro Stoxx
Technology Index today.  “The increase in sales target is positive and they may
still have room to boost it up to 5.2 billion euros,” Lee Simpson, a London-based analyst at Jefferies LLC, said by phone
today. “What also catches the eye is that the order book is
quite strong. The second half of the year will probably be
solid, and this buildup should continue into the first half of
2014.”  Cymer Acquisition  The Dutch company completed the 1.95 billion-euro purchase
of San Diego-based Cymer in May, its biggest deal ever, to
expand in extreme ultraviolet lithography technology, or EUV.  ASML forecast today that third-quarter net sales will total
about 1.3 billion euros, including Cymer. Second-quarter orders
climbed from the previous three months to 1.07 billion euros
from 715 million euros, the company said. That compares with
analyst estimates of 1.04 billion euros at Kepler Cheuvreux and
1.2 billion euros at Exane BNP Paribas.  ASML named Wennink as CEO in April, shifting him from the
finance director position, and said it plans to return cash to
shareholders as it repurchases as much as 1 billion euros of
stock. Eric Meurice, whose contract as CEO was set to end next
year, gave up that job July 1 and became chairman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  