-- Tata Consultancy Growth Slows as Europe Clients Hold Back
-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l   a n d   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 2013-07-18T04:26:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/tata-consultancy-growth-slows-as-europe-clients-hold-back.html
Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) ,
Asia’s largest software exporter by market value, is poised to
report its weakest revenue growth since 2010 as six quarters of
recession in Europe slows demand for its services.  Sales at the Mumbai-based company will climb 19 percent in
the fiscal first quarter ended June to 176.3 billion rupees ($3
billion), the median of 38 analysts’  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. That will be the slowest pace since the three months
through June 2010. Tata Consultancy, also known as TCS, will
report earnings today. Europe contributed 27 percent of TCS’s
sales in the year ended March, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  TCS may join larger competitor  Accenture Plc (ACN)  in signaling
customers in Europe are putting off technology services spending
as the region’s economy struggles to recover from its debt
crisis. Information technology companies with sizeable business
in Europe may post depressed earnings in the June quarter,
according to Anurag Rana, an analyst at Bloomberg Industries.  “The spending that is coming through isn’t giving
opportunity to companies to grow” in Europe, said Amit Aggarwal, an analyst at SPA Securities Ltd. in Mumbai. Only
companies such as  Wipro Ltd. (WPRO)  and  HCL Technologies Ltd. (HCLT) , “which
have significant footprint in the infrastructure management
service business, will show growth in Europe.”  Sales expansion in  continental Europe  at TCS slowed to 21
percent in the year ended March, from a 42 percent pace in the
previous 12 months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Slightly Worse’  The euro-area economy is forecast to have stagnated in the
second quarter after a contraction in the first three months of
the year that extended its recession into a sixth quarter.
Recent reports showed European car sales slumped to a two-decade
low, German investor confidence unexpectedly dropped and euro-area exports fell, adding to signs that the region is struggling
to emerge from the recession.  “The situation in Europe is not even slightly better. It’s
probably slightly worse,” Accenture Chief Executive Officer
Pierre Nanterme said on a conference call June 27 after the
company forecast sales that trailed analysts’ estimates. “So
the mood with our clients over there is still to be thoughtful
and be very mindful about the way they invest.”  ‘Under Pressure’  Infosys Ltd. (INFO) , India’s second-largest software exporter,
last week said increased competition for large outsourcing deals
was also adding pressure on services providers to cut prices.
“Discretionary spending is under pressure for small projects in
Europe,” Chief Executive Officer S.D. Shibulal said on a
conference call.  Shares of Infosys surged the most in six months in Mumbai
trading July 12 after the company’s sales forecast in dollar
terms beat analyst estimates. The Bangalore-based company
reiterated full-year dollar revenue will increase by 6 percent
to 10 percent. Ten analysts in a Bloomberg News survey predicted
Infosys would cut the top end of its  guidance  to 7.5 percent.  Tata Consultancy fell 0.1 percent to 1,677.3 rupees at 9:53
a.m. in Mumbai. Infosys has gained 19 percent in the period
while the benchmark S&P BSE Sensex has added 2.7 percent.  TCS will report today net income climbed 14 percent last
quarter to 37.4 billion rupees, according to the median of 38
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Deal Pipeline’  “As  India ’s largest and most-experienced IT services firm,
TCS is well-positioned to benefit from the growing demand for
offshore IT services,” Kolkata-based Ashika Stock Broking Ltd.
wrote in a research note last month. “As per its current deal
pipeline and interaction with its clients, TCS is witnessing an
uptick in discretionary IT projects,” the securities company
wrote.  The Indian rupee declined 8.6 percent against the dollar in
the April-June period, helping cut the cost of the country’s
computer services to overseas buyers. Still, other cross-currency movements damped overall revenue gains, according to
analysts.  “This will have an adverse impact on reported U.S. dollar
revenue numbers by 56 basis points to 111 basis points for” the
country’s largest information technology companies, Pratik Gandhi, an analyst at IDBI Capital Market Services Ltd., wrote
in a note to investors on July 4. Investors will be looking for
commentary from TCS on “demand environment, pricing,
discretionary spend, new deal wins, hiring target and U.S.
immigration bill,” Gandhi wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net ;
Kartikay Mehrotra in New Delhi at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Fenner at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net  