-- Aussie Snaps Biggest 2-Day Gain Since 2011 Amid Rate Speculation
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2013-07-17T07:10:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/aussie-holds-biggest-two-day-gain-since-2011-before-bernanke.html
The Australian dollar snapped its
biggest consecutive two-day gain since November 2011 on
speculation the  Reserve Bank  may cut  interest rates  to a record
next month and  China’s economy  will slow.  New Zealand’s kiwi dollar also weakened as Chinese stocks
headed for the first decline in three days, damping demand for
higher-yielding assets. Declines in both currencies were limited
amid speculation Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will
signal the  U.S. economy  still requires accommodative monetary
policy when he addresses Congress today.  “There are still some downside risks for the Aussie,”
said Janu Chan, a Sydney-based economist at St. George Bank Ltd.
“There’s a number of factors supporting that -- the RBA is
talking the currency down, the prospect for another rate cut,
and additionally the uncertainty around  China .’  The Australian currency fell 0.6 percent to 91.98 U.S.
cents as of 5:08 p.m. in Sydney following a 2.3 percent, two-day
gain. It fetched 91.59 yen from 91.69. New Zealand’s dollar
slipped 0.6 percent to 78.48 U.S. cents and bought 78.16 yen
from 78.22.  The Shanghai Composite Index fell 1 percent today.  China Growth  Chinese Premier  Li Keqiang  said the nation will seek to
keep economic growth, employment and inflation within limits,
avoiding ‘‘wide fluctuations,” without elaborating on what the
government deems acceptable. The comments came at a forum of
advisers and executives yesterday, according to a summary of the
event published on the government’s website.  Gross domestic product in the world’s second-largest
economy slowed for a second quarter as growth in factory output
and fixed-asset investment weakened, reports showed July 15.  The Aussie surged yesterday after minutes of the Reserve
Bank of  Australia ’s last meeting showed policy makers’ inflation
outlook is being affected by recent currency declines. The
nation’s statistics bureau will release second-quarter inflation
figures on July 24.  “There’s very important inflation data next week, so
there’s limited scope for the market to unwind RBA expectations
in the near term,” said  Tony Morriss , the head of interest-rate
research at  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  in
Sydney. “The currency was mentioned numerous times in the
minutes, and our sense is of a growing sense of comfort that
this recent fall in the Australian dollar will be sustained, and
that will mean that monetary conditions will have been eased
quite a lot in Australia.”  Rates Outlook  Traders are still pricing in about a 50 percent chance the
RBA will reduce borrowing costs from an all-time low by a
quarter percentage point to 2.5 percent next month, according to
 interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg.  The local dollar has lost 9.4 percent over the past three
months, the biggest drop among 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes.  New Zealand ’s
dollar fell 5.3 percent.  Declines in both currencies were limited before Bernanke
has a chance to use testimony to Congress to drive home his
message that winding down asset purchases won’t presage an
increase in the Fed’s benchmark interest rate.  He said last month the central bank may begin to slow its
$85 billion in monthly bond purchases this year and end them in
2014 if economic growth meets policy makers’ goals. The Fed
chairman said on July 10 that the U.S. needs “highly
accommodative monetary policy for the foreseeable future.”  “We’re seeing a lot of consolidation in the greenback as
investors are wary that Mr. Bernanke is going to wear his dovish
cap,” said Andrew May, a sales trader at CMC Markets in
Auckland. “That’s moved an incredible amount of attraction back
to the resources sector, mainly the kiwi and the Aussie.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  