-- Australia’s FIIG Plans Third Bond Deal With G8 Education Notes
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   P u r v i s
-- 2013-07-17T08:26:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/australia-s-fiig-plans-third-bond-deal-with-g8-education-notes.html
FIIG Securities Ltd., an Australian
fixed-income specialist, is arranging its third bond with at
least A$30 million ($28 million) of notes offered by  G8
Education Ltd. (GEM)   The six-year senior unsecured securities, which are
unrated, will be issued by the end of August, according to a
regulatory filing from G8 Education, a provider of child-care
services. FIIG has previously managed offerings for  Silver Chef
Ltd. (SIV) , which provides rental finance for food service equipment,
and unlisted Mackay Sugar. Its transactions to date have been
unrated, according to Andrew Gordon, the arranger’s director of
fixed-income origination.  The earlier transactions have “encouraged many other
companies to consider a wholesale  bond issue  to professional and
sophisticated investors who include high-net worth individuals
and self-managed superannuation funds,” Gordon said in a
telephone interview. “This is something of a unique funding
channel for borrowers in  Australia .”  Silver Chef sold A$30 million of five-year notes in
September 2012, while Queensland-based Mackay Sugar priced A$50
million of five-year bonds in March this year.  The proposed G8 Education deal comes amid renewed signs of
activity in Australian corporate bond issuance. Perth Airport
Pty yesterday priced A$150 million of notes in the first sale of
bonds by a non-financial company since comments last month by
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  about the possible
tapering of stimulus measures roiled global markets.  Gold Coast  G8 Education plans to discuss the transaction with
investors next week, said Gordon, who declined to give price
indications. The child care company, based on Queensland’s  Gold
Coast , expects earnings before interest and tax exceeding A$17.1
million for the six months ended June 30, 2013, it said in a
separate statement today.  “The proceeds of the note offering will only be used to
fund future acquisitions that meet the company’s acquisition
metrics,” G8 Managing Director Chris Scott said in the bond
transaction announcement today. “This offering is in line with
G8 Education’s diligent approach to  capital management .”  The company last month announced that it had agreed to
acquire 17 childcare and education centers for as much as A$24
million and that it would boost its dividend to 12 cents per
share, a 20 percent increase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Purvis in Sydney at 
 bpurvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  