-- Australia’s Rudd Abandons Canberra Home Sale as Market Declines
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-07-17T05:17:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/australia-s-rudd-abandons-canberra-home-sale-as-market-declines.html
Australian Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd 
has abandoned plans to sell his five-bedroom house in Canberra
for A$2.25 million ($2.08 million) following seven weeks on the
market.  The house in the suburb of Yarralumla, a five-minute drive
from  Australia ’s Parliament House, was leased to tenants this
week, said Shane Killalea, an agent at broker Peter Blackshaw
Canberra, who marketed the property. The 465-square-meter
(5,005-square-foot) home was first listed for sale on May 29.  “It’s been taken off the market,” Killalea said. “The
tenants offered good rent,” he said, declining to give details
of the rental rate.  Uncertainty about the outcome of a federal election that
must be held this year is keeping buyers wary with  home prices 
in the nation’s capital down 1.6 percent in the second quarter,
according to the RP Data-Rismark home value index. Rudd, who
first became prime minister in 2007, returned to power last
month when he defeated  Julia Gillard  in a Labor leadership vote
three years after she toppled him in a party coup.  Rudd, 55, and his wife, Therese Rein, bought the property,
which includes a swimming pool, outdoor entertainment area and
four bathrooms, for A$2.175 million in September 2010, according
to  allhomes.com.au , a real estate website. They moved out at the
end of 2011 after their son Marcus completed his schooling in
Canberra, Rudd’s office said in an e-mailed statement on May 31.  Two spokesmen for the prime minister said today they
weren’t immediately aware of the status of the house.  The property, which was occupied by tenants until mid-June,
had been open for inspection six times before it was taken off
the market, Killalea said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  