-- Australia Carbon Link May Spur EU Panel, Accenture Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-07-17T15:45:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/australia-emissions-link-may-spur-eu-carbon-bank-accenture-says.html
Linking with  Australia ’s carbon
market may spur the European Union to set up an independent
panel to help manage demand and supply in its own program,
improving governance, according to  Accenture Plc. (ACN)   The structure would need to be independent of nations while
including input from governments and national or European
agencies, Mauricio Bermudez Neubauer, a London-based lead
consultant on carbon markets at Accenture, said July 15 in a
phone interview.  “It needs to be something like a central bank,” he said.
“If the EU is talking about linking up with Australia, there
has to be a degree of harmonization.”  The Australian Climate Change Authority, established a year
ago, provides independent advice on the operation of that
nation’s carbon price and its emission caps. Discussions to link
the European and Australian carbon markets were speeding up,
 Connie Hedegaard , EU climate commissioner, said yesterday on her
Twitter Inc. account. The regulator was exploring whether the
two markets may be able to form an interim link in July 2014, a
year earlier than previously planned, said Isaac Valero-Ladron,
Hedegaard’s spokesman.  The EU is seeking to change the structure of its carbon
market after a build up of a surplus equivalent to a year’s
supply. Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta said yesterday the
chances of the U.K. leaving the EU are being underestimated by
members, who should start planning now for the changes needed to
keep the group intact.  “The current political context may not be the best for EU-wide structures,” Bermudez Neubauer said. “But if you want to
set this up for future decades, you need to set it up right.”  ‘Unfounded Speculation’  The need for a bank was “unfounded speculation,” Valero-Ladron said today. Consultations with stakeholders in the market
“indicated that there is no appetite for an institution trying
to manage the carbon price,” he said.  “Quite a few stakeholders expressed support for a
mechanism to make auction supply more flexible and this is what
the commission is considering in more detail now,” he said.  The U.K. has the Committee on  Climate Change  that advises
on carbon budgets in that nation. In the EU, the Brussels-based
commission proposes carbon-market laws, helps oversee them and
publishes emissions data. It also leads the bloc in
international climate negotiations.  The EU should consider a central carbon bank, whose role
would be to help manage imbalances between supply and demand in
the system, Oeystein Loeseth, chief executive officer of
Vattenfall AB,  Europe ’s biggest emitter after  RWE AG (RWE) , said by
telephone July 3.  Price Advances  “That’s one of the solutions that can work,” he said.  EU emission allowances for December rose 3 cents today to
4.16 euros ($5.45) a metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in  London  at 4:02 p.m. The contract was at a record
34.91 euros a ton in June 2008.  Carbon prices need to rise beyond 20 euros a ton to help
shift power output away from coal and toward natural gas and
non-fossil fuels, Loeseth said. The central carbon bank could
help manage the transition and balance the need to keep
emissions falling on the one hand and costs down on the other,
he said. “That’s the most economical way for society. You will
avoid taking the most costly energy sources first,” he said.  The European Federation of Energy Traders  said  in February
the EU should consider “exploring the feasibility of following
the example of the Australian emissions trading system; the
rolling five-year cap might provide both market certainty and
flexibility to adjusting to changing macro-economic
conditions.”  Similar structures are also compatible with cap-and-trade
legislation that stalled in the  U.S. Senate  after narrowly
passing the house in 2009, Bermudez Neubauer said.  “Supply adjustments and price management mechanisms are
the direction of travel,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  