-- Baker Botts, Gibson Dunn, Davis Polk: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-07-19T14:09:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/baker-botts-gibson-dunn-davis-polk-business-of-law.html
A team of 14 lawyers from Norton
Rose Fulbright LLP, including eight transactional and dispute
partners, joined  Baker Botts  LLP’s offices in Dubai,  Abu Dhabi 
and  Riyadh , Saudi Arabia.  Those moving yesterday include John Lonsberg, who was
Fulbright & Jaworski’s partner in charge of the  Middle East 
practice and who established the firm’s presence in the region
when he joined Fulbright in 2005. Also joining Baker Botts are
partners Mark Bisch, Jonathan Sutcliffe, Joseph Colagiovanni,
Hassan Elsayed, Richard Devine and Philip Punwar in Dubai, and
Sam Eversman in Riyadh.  “This team -- considered ‘go-to’ choices for any business
requiring legal counsel in the Middle East -- has extensive
experience in the region over a wide range of industry segments
and practice areas that goes back for more than 30 years,”
Baker Botts managing partner  Andrew Baker  said in a statement.  The lawyers joining Baker Botts focus primarily on
corporate and commercial transactions, regulatory and
compliance, project finance, international arbitration and
dispute-resolution, and local law. They also handle antibribery
and corporate compliance and internal investigations matters,
the firm said.  Baker Botts now has 40 lawyers in its Middle East offices.
The firm formed an alliance with the International Legal Group
in Kuwait this year, adding to its regional capacity.  U.K firm Norton Rose and Fulbright & Jaworski LLP
officially combined in June creating a 3,800 lawyer firm. The
firm has about 50 Middle East-based lawyers, according to a firm
spokesman.  “While our combined firms are highly complementary, any
combination of organizations brings inevitable changes in
leadership and responsibilities and some overlap, and we
understand that not all individuals will embrace those
changes,” Kenneth Stewart, managing partner of  Norton Rose 
Fulbright’s U.S. member firm said in a statement. “We wish our
former partners in the Middle East our best.”  Since the combination, Norton Rose has also seen some
defections in Los Angeles. Last month, Pepper Hamilton LLP hired
health-care partner Mark A. Kadzielski, who had headed the
firm’s West Coast health law practice, along with four other
lawyers.  This month, Winston & Strawn LLP added three partners and
three other attorneys, including Marcus A. Torrano, who was
formerly the head of Norton Rose’s Los Angeles labor-and-employment practice.  Baker Botts has more than 700 lawyers in 14 offices in the
U.S., Europe,  China  and the Middle East.  News  SEC Enforcement Unit’s Lench Leaves Agency After 23 Years  Kenneth Lench , chief of the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission enforcement unit that built cases against Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , is stepping down
after more than 23 years at the agency.  Lench, who led investigations related to subprime-mortgage
products that fueled the 2008 credit crisis, will leave the SEC
for private industry at the end of this month, the agency said
yesterday in a statement. Cases Lench handled yielded about $1.7
billion in recovery for harmed investors, the SEC said.  “Ken’s determination to always seek the right answers and
his devotion to protecting investors by working tirelessly with
his staff and colleagues made everyone around him better,”
George Canellos, co-director of the SEC enforcement unit, said
in the statement. “The enforcement division is stronger today
because of Ken’s unwavering leadership.”  Lench was tapped to head the structured and new financial
products unit in 2010, when it was formed in then-enforcement
director  Robert Khuzami ’s overhaul of the division. The group
led the highest-profile cases stemming from the mortgage-market
collapse that brought down Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and
forced taxpayer bailouts for the biggest U.S. banks.  Reid Muoio, Lench’s deputy, will lead the structured
products unit until a new chief is named, the SEC said.  Deals  Gibson Dunn Advises Bally on $1.3 Billion SHFL Gaming Deal  Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP is advising  Bally Technologies
Inc. (BYI) , which agreed to buy  SHFL (SHFL)  Entertainment Inc. for about $1.3
billion in a deal that combines two complementary gambling-technology companies. Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP
is advising SHFL.  Gibson Dunn ’s team is led by  Los Angeles  corporate partner
Jeffrey Le Sage and includes corporate partner Candice Choh,
finance partner Cromwell Montgomery, benefits partner Sean
Feller, antitrust partner John Herfort, antitrust partner Adam
Di Vincenzo, and tax partner Dora Arash.  Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP acted as
counsel to Goldman Sachs Group Inc., financial adviser to Bally
on the deal, with a team led by corporate partner Philip Richter.  The Skadden team included partners Howard Ellin and Richard Witzel, mergers and acquisitions; David Rievman, tax; Stephanie Teicher, banking; Bruce Goldner, intellectual property and
technology; Regina Olshan, executive compensation and benefits;
Clifford Aronson, antitrust; and Maura Barry Grinalds,
litigation.  The offer of $23.25 a share is 24 percent higher than
SHFL’s closing price July 15. The transaction was unanimously
approved by both boards, the Las Vegas-based companies said
yesterday in a statement.  Bally, whose products include  slot machines  and lottery
systems, will get access to key markets including Australia and
strengthen its offering in Asia. Adding SHFL will also help
Bally provide its customers with a suite of gambling products
for the entire casino floor.  For more, click here.  Firm News  Akin Gump Will Shift Firm Structure to All-Capital Partnership  Akin Gump  Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP said it will change to
an all-capital partnership structure in January 2014.  “Following multiple discussions with partners throughout
the firm and a thorough evaluation of standard industry
practices, we concluded that it is beneficial for all partners
to have a stake in the firm’s success,” Akin Gump Chairwoman
Kim Koopersmith said in a statement yesterday. “This shift will
also help further strengthen the firm’s financial position in
both the short term and long term.”  All partners, including income partners, will contribute
capital on a graduated basis. The shift will give the firm “a
multitiered compensation system that is a combination of
guaranteed and variable compensation, with gradually increasing
degrees of ownership,” according to the statement.  Akin Gump has more than 850 lawyers in the U.S., Europe,
Asia and the Middle East.  Moves  Former Davis Polk Partner Named GC at NBCUniversal  Former  Davis Polk  & Wardwell LLP litigation partner
Kimberley D. Harris was named as general counsel at
NBCUniversal, the company said in a statement.  Harris succeeds Rick Cotton, who has held the position
since 2004. Cotton will take over the post of senior counselor
for IP protection, working on antipiracy matters at NBCUniversal
and parent Comcast Corp.  Her appointment is effective Sept. 3. She will report to
Steve Burke, chief executive officer of NBCUniversal.  In her new position, Harris will provide legal advice to
the NBCUniversal senior management team and supervise the law
department, which handles legal matters for the company’s film
studio, two broadcast networks, 18 cable channels, digital sites
and theme-park operations, the company said. She will also
coordinate its global regulatory and legislative agenda.  At Davis Polk, Harris handled investigations by the U.S.
Justice Department, the Securities and Exchange Commission and
Congress, the company said. From 2010 to 2012, she worked in the
White House Counsel’s Office, most recently as deputy counsel
and deputy assistant to the president.  BuckleySandler Hires Two Litigators to Open Chicago Office  BuckleySandler LLP announced that class-action defense
litigator Richard E. Gottlieb, former head of Dykema Gossett
PLLC’s financial industry group and chairman of the firm’s
national consumer financial services practice, has joined the
firm as a partner. Fredrick S. Levin, a class-action and
securities litigator will also be joining as a partner from
Dykema, along with an associate.  Gottlieb and Levin will work out of BuckleySandler’s Los
Angeles and soon-to-be-opened Chicago office, the firm said.  “Richard and I have worked together on client matters for
almost 20 years.” Andrew L. Sandler, chairman and executive
partner of BuckleySandler, said in a statement. “He is one of
the country’s most accomplished class-action litigators serving
banks, mortgage companies and other consumer financial services
firms, and we are fortunate to have him join our team,”  Gottlieb has experience primarily in the defense of class
actions alleging false or deceptive lending practices and
statutory consumer lending violations. He also has experience in
arbitrations, regulatory matters and administrative proceedings.  Levin’s practice has focused on defending financial
institutions in consumer and securities class-action litigation.  BuckleySandler has almost 150 lawyers in Washington, New
York, Los Angeles and Orange County, California.  Asia Pacific Attorney Shao-Ying Mautner Joins Foley in Shanghai  Shao-Ying Mautner joined Foley & Lardner LLP as a partner
and chief representative of the firm’s Shanghai office and a
member of the firm’s transactional and securities and China
practices.  Mautner joined Foley from a Hong Kong-based legal
consulting firm that she founded in 2010. In that role, she
advised clients on business operations in China, managed major
transactional and litigation matters and often acted as interim
general counsel for clients, the firm said.  Mautner specializes in advising multinational companies on
mergers, acquisitions and other major transactional and complex
litigation matters in China. She also provides legal support to
clients’ day-to-day operations in China, including business
structuring, distribution strategy, manufacturing and supply-chain activities, and other matters, according to the firm.  “Shao-Ying has a well-earned reputation as a top general
counsel in the region, and her wealth of hands-on experience in
the China business market is a perfect addition to our talented
team,” said Richard Florsheim, chairman of Foley’s China
practice.  Foley & Lardner has approximately 900 attorneys in 21
offices in the U.S., Brussels and Asia.  Katten Brings on Leading Corporate Attorney Claudia Allen  Katten Muchin Rosenman LLP announced that corporate
attorney Claudia H. Allen has joined the firm as partner in
Chicago and co-chair of the corporate governance practice, along
with firm partner Herb Wander. She formerly headed the corporate
governance practice at Neal, Gerber & Eisenberg LLP.  Allen counsels directors, board committees, management and
shareholders on emerging governance issues, effective governance
practices and fiduciary duties, as well as compliance with the
Dodd-Frank and Sarbanes-Oxley Acts and related rules and stock
exchange listing standards.  Katten has more than 600 attorneys in the U.S. and in
London and Shanghai.  Duane Morris Boston Office Adds Corporate Partner Lourie  Duane Morris LLP announced that corporate lawyer Jonathan Lourie has joined the firm as a partner in its Boston office. He
was previously at Edwards Wildman Palmer LLP.  Lourie’s practice focuses on technology-based companies. He
has experience in licensing, joint ventures and collaborations
in the field of life sciences. Lourie also advises companies and
people on technology transfers, venture capital transactions,
mergers and acquisitions, bankruptcy acquisitions, specialized
lending, international law and  securities law , the firm said.  Duane Morris has more than 700 attorneys in 24 offices in
the U.S., London and Asia.  Corporate and Tax Partner Joins Burr & Forman in Atlanta  Burr & Forman LLP announced that Chester J. Hosch has
joined the firm as an Atlanta-based partner in the corporate and
tax practice group. Hosch previously worked as a partner at
Schreeder, Wheeler & Flint LLP.  Hosch has experience in mergers and acquisitions, corporate
finance and taxation. He represents clients involved in health
care, manufacturing and technology in commercial transactions,
securities matters and financings, the firm said. He also has
assisted clients in material acquisitions and divestitures and
in supervising reporting with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  Burr & Forman has almost 300 attorneys and nine U.S.
offices.  Video  Porn Copyright Trolls Receive Punitive Sanctions  Morgan Pietz, a Los Angeles copyright lawyer, talks with
Bloomberg Law’s Spencer Mazyck about fighting Chicago-based
Prenda Law Inc. in federal court for its abusive copyright
infringement litigation tactics.  Since 2010, Prenda Law, under various names, has initiated
hundreds of copyright infringement lawsuits, accusing defendants
of unauthorized downloading of adult films copyrighted by the
 law firm .  In May 2013, U.S. District Judge Otis Wright issued
punitive sanctions against Prenda Law under the court’s inherent
supervisory authority.  Pietz, in this “Rainmakers” episode, also discusses the
court’s rationale for sanctioning the copyright-trolling group
of lawyers.  This is a Bloomberg podcast. To download, watch or listen
to this report now, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  