-- Bank of Canada Keeps Its Benchmark Interest Rate at 1% (Text)
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-07-17T14:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/bank-of-canada-keeps-its-benchmark-interest-rate-at-1-text-.html
Following is the text accompanying
the  Bank of Canada ’s decision to leave its benchmark overnight
rate target at 1 percent. The statement was released today in
Ottawa.  The Bank of Canada today announced that it is maintaining
its target for the overnight rate at 1 per cent. The  Bank Rate  is
correspondingly 1 1/4 per cent and the deposit rate is 3/4 per
cent.  Global economic growth remains modest, although the pace of
economic activity varies significantly across the major
economies. The U.S. economic expansion is proceeding at a
moderate pace, with the continued strengthening in private demand
being partly offset by the impact of fiscal consolidation. In
 Japan , fiscal and monetary policy stimulus is contributing to a
rapid recovery in economic growth. In contrast, economic activity
in the euro area remains weak. While stronger than in the
advanced economies, real GDP growth in  China  and other emerging
market economies has slowed, exerting downward pressure on global
commodity prices and, as a consequence, the Bank has downgraded
slightly its global growth forecast. The global economy is still
expected to pick up in 2014 and 2015.  In  Canada , economic growth is expected to be choppy in the
near term, owing to unusual temporary factors, although the
overall outlook is little changed from the Bank’s projection in
its April Monetary Policy Report (MPR). Annual GDP growth is
projected to average 1.8 per cent in 2013 and 2.7 per cent in
both 2014 and 2015, supported by very accommodative financial
conditions. Despite ongoing competitiveness challenges, exports
are projected to gather momentum, which should boost confidence
and lead to increasingly solid growth in business investment. The
economy will also be supported by continued growth in  consumer
spending , while further modest declines in residential investment
are expected. Growth in real GDP is projected to be sufficient to
absorb the current material excess capacity in the economy,
closing the output gap around mid-2015, as projected in the April
MPR.  Inflation has been low in recent months and is expected to
remain subdued in the near term. The weakness in  core inflation 
reflects persistent material excess capacity, heightened
competitive pressures on retailers, relatively subdued wage
increases, and some temporary sector-specific factors. Total CPI
inflation has also been restrained by declining mortgage interest
costs. As the economy gradually returns to full capacity and with
inflation expectations well-anchored, both core and total CPI
inflation are expected to return to 2 per cent around mid-2015.  Against this backdrop, the Bank has decided to maintain the
target for the overnight rate at 1 per cent.  As long as there is
significant slack in the Canadian economy, the inflation outlook
remains muted, and imbalances in the household sector continue to
evolve constructively, the considerable monetary policy stimulus
currently in place will remain appropriate. Over time, as the
normalization of these conditions unfolds, a gradual
normalization of policy interest rates can also be expected,
consistent with achieving the 2 per cent inflation target.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  