-- Bankers Chill With Comfort Food, Moet House Champagne
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2013-07-17T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/bankers-chill-with-comfort-food-moet-house-champagne.html
An area of London that each day
draws thousands of bankers, traders and other well-paid people
with large appetites should have many good restaurants.  So how come there isn’t more choice when it comes to eating
out in the Square Mile? While the City financial district isn’t
a culinary desert, nor is it a dining destination.  Restaurants come and go. The Hakkasan-owned Chrysan, which
closed recently, lasted only a few months. Even successful
establishments such as Galvin La Chapelle and L’Anima are
feeling the squeeze of tightening expense accounts.  New to the mix are the two restaurants at the  South Place
Hotel  and they are very good indeed. Angler and 3 South Place
Bar & Grill don’t attempt to push any gastronomic boundaries.
The chefs create attractive dishes with good, seasonal
ingredients and then serve them without fuss.  The grill is well suited to the City, with lots of steaks
and pies and as much comfort food as you need when you don’t
know where your next million is coming from. But there’s an
attention to detail that dispels cynicism: 3 South Place is
better than it needs to be when diners have limited choice.  The prawn cocktail is generous in portion size and flavor,
while the Kashmiri curry is filled with Welsh lamb shoulder that
has been braised for 36 hours. It is just so good that you’d be
happy to try it anywhere. It tastes even better in the City.  Executive Chef Tony Fleming has worked with Marco Pierre White and focuses on sourcing the best produce. Nowhere is
freshness more important than with fish, and Angler is as good
as anywhere in this part of  London .  Lunch Bargain  You might start a meal with a dense and deeply flavored
soup with croutons and gruyere and then move on to something a
little more exotic, such as roast brill with brown shrimp,
capers, butter and parsley, which costs 26.50 pounds ($41). The
daily specials are probably more of a temptation. It’s the set
lunch that is the real steal, at 25 pounds for two courses.  Recently, I enjoyed slow-cooked lamb breast, pea puree,
anchovy mayonnaise, confit cherry tomatoes, followed by pan-fried bream, prawn and potato saute, baby fennel and lime salad.
The dishes are balanced without being boring or timid.  The room is light and bright and there’s an outdoor terrace
that is great for drinks in the afternoon or evening. At least I
thought that was the case until a sunny day when the service
came to a standstill and one customer was reduced to walking
into the bar to plead for a drink.  On the other hand, two staff members did find time to
discuss whether one should resign by letter or by e-mail. Let me
save them the trouble. D&D London: A resignation is imminent and
I suggest hiring two replacements as the terrace is
understaffed.  Corporate Ambiance  Angler doesn’t quite escape the corporate ambience it
shares with other outlets of D&D -- the former Conran
Restaurants -- such as Coq d’Argent. I don’t blame D&D. I blame
us, the customers: We’re all there in our suits, checking our
BlackBerrys and talking about work. South Place has just about
doubled the number of good restaurants in this part of the City.  (D&D split with Conran in April when LDC, the private
equity arm of Lloyds Banking Group, led a 50 million-pound
management buyout of the group.)  There’s one reason to hold onto your cynicism: the wine
list. Any restaurant that serves  Moet & Chandon  as the house
Champagne looks focused on fattening the bottom line. The list
 http://bit.ly/ZT1VD6  is ungenerous. To make a single comparison,
2009 Blanc Fume de Pouilly, Silex, Domaine Didier Dagueneau is
195 pounds, compared with 140 pounds at Hawksmoor
( http://thehawksmoor.com/wp-content/uploads/menus/SF-WINE.pdf .)  If greed is good, this is the Mother Teresa of wine lists.  Cheers.  The Bloomberg Questions  Cost? About 30 pounds for food, a la carte; watch out for
the generous set menus.  Sound level? About 75 decibels in the grill and 70 in
Angler.  Inside tip? There’s a secret bar in the hotel.  Special feature? It’s a hotel in the City  Date place? See answer to previous question.  Rating? *** for the food.  Will I be back? Yes.  3 South Place, Eldon Street, London, EC2M 2AF. Information:
 http://www.southplacehotel.com/  or +44-20-3215-1270.  Sound-Level Chart (in decibels): 65-70: Office noise. 70-75: Starbucks. 75-80: London street. 80-85: Alarm clock at
closest range. 85-90: Passing bus. 85-95: Tube train.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars,  Jorg von 
Uthmann  on Paris culture,  Rich Jaroslovsky  on technology and 
 James Russell  on architecture.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 