-- Bank of America Estimates Leverage Ratio Was 4.9% to 5%
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2013-07-17T11:32:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/bank-of-america-estimates-leverage-ratio-was-4-9-to-5-.html
Bank of America Corp. , the second-largest U.S. bank, estimated that its ratio of capital to total
assets was between 4.9 percent and 5 percent in the second
quarter, near the proposed minimum.  The bank disclosed the so-called supplementary  leverage
ratio  with its second-quarter earnings today. The Charlotte,
North Carolina-based bank didn’t estimate the ratio for its
federally insured deposit-taking subsidiary.  Under the U.S. plan introduced last week, the parent
companies of eight of the largest banks, including Bank of
America, would need  capital  equal to 5 percent of assets and
their bank subsidiaries would require 6 percent.  The U.S. proposal surpasses the 3 percent global minimum
that the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  approved to help
prevent another financial crisis. The changes would force
lenders to fund more assets with capital that can absorb losses
instead of with borrowed money.  The higher threshold could complicate efforts by Chief
Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  to increase dividends.
Lenders that don’t reach the minimum in time could face curbs on
bonuses, stock buybacks and payouts to shareholders. While banks
would have until the end of 2017 to comply, some may have to
retain earnings to meet the goals.  One Cent  Bank of America slashed its quarterly  dividend  to a token 1
cent to conserve capital in 2009 after taking a $45 billion U.S.
bailout. The funds were repaid later that year and Moynihan, 53,
vowed to rebuild capital, only to see regulators block his
request for a higher dividend in March 2011. The bank did get
Federal Reserve approval in March to buy back as much as $5
billion of stock.  Citigroup Inc., the third-biggest  U.S. bank , said its ratio
averaged 4.9 percent in the second quarter and in June exceeded
the 5 percent minimum that U.S. regulators proposed last week.
The New York-based company hasn’t calculated a ratio for its
deposit-taking unit, CFO John Gerspach said July 15. He said the
ratio was about 6 percent in March.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the largest home lender, exceeds both
minimums, CEO  John Stumpf  said last week. Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. said it’s “very comfortable” with its ability to meet the
new U.S. minimum, without giving the current level.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest U.S. bank, said last week
that both its holding company, which had a 4.7 percent ratio,
and deposit-taking subsidiary fall short of the proposed
minimums. CEO  Jamie Dimon  criticized the plan for going further
than international requirements.  “If one is 3 percent and one is 6 percent, that becomes
just too big, and over time it can have huge competitive
effects,” Dimon said on a July 12 conference call. “We always
ran with higher capital and liquidity than most of our
competitors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in  New York  at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christine Harper at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  