-- Banorte Jumps as $2.5 Billion Sale Sells Out: Mexico City Mover
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-07-17T19:02:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/banorte-jumps-as-2-5-billion-sale-sells-out-mexico-city-mover.html
Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB,
 Mexico ’s third-largest bank, jumped the most since 2009 after
raising 32 billion pesos ($2.5 billion) in a share sale where
investor demand was more than three times the amount offered.  Banorte  jumped  9.9 percent to 79.20 pesos at 12:52 p.m. in
Mexico City trading. It was the biggest gainer on Mexico’s
benchmark IPC index, which rose 0.6 percent.  The bank’s follow-on equity offering yesterday attracted
about $8.5 billion of investor orders, or more than three times
the amount sold, according to a statement late yesterday. The
shares priced at 71.50 pesos each, a 1 percent discount to
yesterday’s close. That compares with an average 4 percent
discount for the six other Mexican follow-on offerings this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It was a very successful placement,” Gerardo Sienra, a
trader at Intercam Casa de Bolsa SA, said in a telephone
interview from Mexico City.  Banorte’s sale was Mexico’s biggest equity transaction
since September, when Grupo Financiero Santander Mexico SAB, the
country’s fourth-largest bank, raised $4.1 billion in an initial
public offering.  Investors have poured money into Mexican stocks in a bet
that  Latin America ’s second-biggest economy stands to benefit
from President Enrique Pena Nieto’s proposal to open the state-controlled  energy industry  to private companies.  The Banorte offering pushed equity issuance in Mexico to a
record $9.18 billion this year, more than six times the total in
the same period last year and surpassing the previous full-year
record of $9.02 billion set in 2012.  Shares Multiple  Banorte shares had tumbled in the three days leading up to
the sale, leaving them at a valuation of 12.4 times projected
earnings as of yesterday’s close. That was below their average
13.8 times multiple over the past three years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Some investors had sold borrowed shares in the run-up to
the offering, putting pressure on Banorte’s stock price, Sienra
said.  “The sellers are gone now, and after the price adjustment,
Banorte’s multiples look attractive at these levels,” Sienra
said.  After today’s jump in price, the shares are trading at 13.7
times projected earnings.  Banorte has said it will use the proceeds from the sale to
help pay back $800 million borrowed this year to buy a stake in
 Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) ’s pension fund unit, as well
as to finance the planned acquisition of a stake in Seguros
Banorte Generali and Pensiones Banorte Generali. An additional
$325 million will help pay for the repurchase of a stake in the
lender from International Finance Corp.  Banorte, JPMorgan Chase & Co., Morgan Stanley, Bank of
America Corp., Grupo BTG Pactual, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
Banco Itau BBA SA and Mitsubishi UFJ Securities USA Inc. helped
carry out the transaction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  