-- Ben Bernanke’s Quixotic Quest for Clarity
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-07-17T18:53:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/ben-bernanke-s-quixotic-quest-for-clarity.html
If Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  thought that helping investors to understand Fed policy
was going to be easy, the past few weeks have disabused him of
that notion. Comments he made last month unsettled financial
markets and caused interest rates to spike -- an effect  he
hadn’t intended . Since then, he’s been trying to repair the
damage.  Signs are that he made some progress in his semiannual
testimony to Congress, which began today and continues tomorrow.
Long-term interest rates eased a little as he reaffirmed the
Fed’s commitment to maintain monetary stimulus. That’s fine, but
Bernanke’s struggle to be understood raises the question of
whether his dedication to transparency and “forward guidance” is
wise.  It’s worth remembering that this approach is new. Judging
by  his speeches , Bernanke  sees it  as his distinctive
contribution to the art and science of central banking. The
previous generation of central bankers made a point of keeping
markets in the dark about their interest-rate intentions.  Alan Greenspan  took pride in his turgid opacity; he once quipped, “If
you think you understood me, it’s because I misspoke.” The
prevailing theory was that interest-rate changes were more
effective if they took markets by surprise.  Such thinking is now out. Increasingly, guidance is
preferred and surprises are frowned upon. Bernanke is the most
influential exponent of this thinking, but  Mark Carney , the new
governor of the  Bank of England , pioneered it while running the
 Bank of Canada , and  Mario Draghi , president of the  European
Central Bank , is moving tentatively in the same direction --
recently promising, in the manner of Bernanke, to keep interest
rates very low for “an extended period.”  The essential difficulty in all this is that the markets’
appetite for information is limitless, and any central bank’s
ability to satisfy it is limited -- both by economic uncertainty
and by disagreement within central banks about the proper
policy.  If a central banker says, “for an extended period,” the
markets want to know, “How extended?” (Draghi tried to say more
about that, then the ECB had to walk back the clarification.)
Bernanke has attached various numbers for inflation and
unemployment to his predictions for  short-term interest rates 
and asset purchases, but that’s not good enough, either. For
example, he  said last month  that 6.5 percent is the  unemployment
rate  at which the Fed might start raising short-term  interest
rates  -- but then again might not. It’s a “threshold” that would
cause the Fed to reconsider its policy, you see, not a “trigger”
that would force a change.  In the same vein, the great exponent of forward guidance
this week told Congress that the Fed’s  asset purchases  “are by
no means on a preset course.” He meant that everything depends
on how the recovery evolves. But the markets knew that anyway.
If central banks can’t or won’t bind themselves, more
information doesn’t necessarily narrow the range of uncertainty.  Forward guidance can work as advertised when the central
bank makes clear promises it intends to keep. A simpler approach
that avoids multiple targets and triggers -- sorry, thresholds -
- would work better. Forward guidance that has to be elaborated
and refined every time a central banker speaks is, at best,
useless.  Forward guidance could be worse than useless if it comes to
be seen as a substitute for actual changes in policy. There’s a
hint of this possibility in the U.K., where some expect Carney
to rely less on quantitative easing and more on forward guidance
about interest rates. Take this thinking too far, and forward
guidance becomes mere bluffing -- which is destabilizing,
because markets are apt to call any policy maker’s bluff. In
central banking, as in most things, actions still speak louder
than words.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 