-- Bernanke’s Testimony to House Financial Services Panel (Text)
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M u r r a y
-- 2013-07-17T12:30:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/bernanke-s-testimony-to-house-financial-services-panel-text-.html
The following is a reformatted
version of the text of the prepared remarks of Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke to the House Financial Services
Committee today in  Washington .  Chairman Hensarling, Ranking Member Waters, and other
members of the Committee, I am pleased to present the Federal
Reserve’s semiannual Monetary Policy Report to the Congress. I
will discuss current economic conditions and the outlook and
then turn to monetary policy. I’ll finish with a short summary
of our ongoing work on regulatory reform.  The Economic Outlook  The economic recovery has continued at a moderate pace in
recent quarters despite the strong headwinds created by federal
fiscal policy.  Housing has contributed significantly to recent gains in
economic activity. Home sales, house prices, and residential
construction have moved up over the past year, supported by low
mortgage rates and improved confidence in both the housing
market and the economy. Rising housing construction and home
sales are adding to job growth, and substantial increases in
home prices are bolstering household finances and consumer
spending while reducing the number of homeowners with underwater
mortgages. Housing activity and prices seem likely to continue
to recover, notwithstanding the recent increases in mortgage
rates, but it will be important to monitor developments in this
sector carefully.  Conditions in the labor market are improving gradually. The
unemployment rate stood at 7.6 percent in June, about a half
percentage point lower than in the months before the Federal
Open Market Committee (FOMC) initiated its current asset
purchase program in September. Nonfarm payroll employment has
increased by an average of about 200,000 jobs per month so far
this year. Despite these gains, the jobs situation is far from
satisfactory, as the unemployment rate remains well above its
longer-run normal level, and rates of underemployment and long-term unemployment are still much too high.  Meanwhile, consumer price inflation has been running below
the Committee’s longer-run objective of 2 percent. The price
index for personal consumption expenditures rose only 1 percent
over the year ending in May. This softness reflects in part some
factors that are likely to be transitory. Moreover, measures of
longer-term inflation expectations have generally remained
stable, which should help move inflation back up toward 2
percent. However, the Committee is certainly aware that very low
inflation poses risks to economic performance -- for example, by
raising the real cost of capital investment -- and increases the
risk of outright deflation. Consequently, we will monitor this
situation closely as well, and we will act as needed to ensure
that inflation moves back toward our 2 percent objective over
time.  At the June FOMC meeting, my colleagues and I projected
that economic growth would pick up in coming quarters, resulting
in gradual progress toward the levels of unemployment and
inflation consistent with the Federal Reserve’s statutory
mandate to foster maximum employment and price stability.
Specifically, most participants saw real GDP growth beginning to
step up during the second half of this year, eventually reaching
a pace between 2.9 and 3.6 percent in 2015. They projected the
unemployment rate to decline to between 5.8 and 6.2 percent by
the final quarter of 2015. And they saw inflation gradually
increasing toward the Committee’s 2 percent objective.(1)  The pickup in economic growth projected by most Committee
participants partly reflects their view that federal fiscal
policy will exert somewhat less drag over time, as the effects
of the tax increases and the spending sequestration diminish.
The Committee also believes that risks to the economy have
diminished since the fall, reflecting some easing of financial
stresses in Europe, the gains in housing and labor markets that
I mentioned earlier, the better budgetary positions of state and
local governments, and stronger household and business balance
sheets. That said, the risks remain that tight federal fiscal
policy will restrain economic growth over the next few quarters
by more than we currently expect, or that the debate concerning
other fiscal policy issues, such as the status of the debt
ceiling, will evolve in a way that could hamper the recovery.
More generally, with the recovery still proceeding at only a
moderate pace, the economy remains vulnerable to unanticipated
shocks, including the possibility that global economic growth
may be slower than currently anticipated.  Monetary Policy  With unemployment still high and declining only gradually,
and with inflation running below the Committee’s longer-run
objective, a highly accommodative monetary policy will remain
appropriate for the foreseeable future.  In normal circumstances, the Committee’s basic tool for
providing monetary accommodation is its target for the federal
funds rate. However, the target range for the federal funds rate
has been close to zero since late 2008 and cannot be reduced
meaningfully further. Instead, we are providing additional
policy accommodation through two distinct yet complementary
policy tools. The first tool is expanding the Federal Reserve’s
portfolio of longer-term Treasury securities and agency
mortgage-backed securities (MBS); we are currently purchasing
$40 billion per month in agency MBS and $45 billion per month in
Treasuries. The second tool is “forward guidance” about the
Committee’s plans for setting the federal funds rate target over
the medium term.  Within our overall policy framework, we think of these two
tools as having somewhat different roles. We are using asset
purchases and the resulting expansion of the Federal Reserve’s
balance sheet primarily to increase the near-term momentum of
the economy, with the specific goal of achieving a substantial
improvement in the outlook for the labor market in a context of
price stability. We have made some progress toward this goal,
and, with inflation subdued, we intend to continue our purchases
until a substantial improvement in the labor market outlook has
been realized. In addition, even after purchases end, the
Federal Reserve will be holding its stock of Treasury and agency
securities off the market and reinvesting the proceeds from
maturing securities, which will continue to put downward
pressure on longer-term interest rates, support mortgage
markets, and help to make broader financial conditions more
accommodative.  We are relying on near-zero short-term interest rates,
together with our forward guidance that rates will continue to
be exceptionally low -- our second tool -- to help maintain a
high degree of monetary accommodation for an extended period
after asset purchases end, even as the economic recovery
strengthens and unemployment declines toward more-normal levels.
In appropriate combination, these two tools can provide the high
level of policy accommodation needed to promote a stronger
economic recovery with price stability.  In the interest of transparency, Committee participants
agreed in June that it would be helpful to lay out more details
about our thinking regarding the asset purchase program--
specifically, to provide additional information on our
assessment of progress to date, as well as of the likely
trajectory of the program if the economy evolves as projected.
This agreement to provide additional information did not reflect
a change in policy.  The Committee’s decisions regarding the asset purchase
program (and the overall stance of monetary policy) depend on
our assessment of the economic outlook and of the cumulative
progress toward our objectives. Of course, economic forecasts
must be revised when new information arrives and are thus
necessarily provisional. As I noted, the economic outcomes that
Committee participants saw as most likely in their June
projections involved continuing gains in labor markets,
supported by moderate growth that picks up over the next several
quarters as the restraint from fiscal policy diminishes.
Committee participants also saw inflation moving back toward our
2 percent objective over time. If the incoming data were to be
broadly consistent with these projections, we anticipated that
it would be appropriate to begin to moderate the monthly pace of
purchases later this year. And if the subsequent data continued
to confirm this pattern of ongoing economic improvement and
normalizing inflation, we expected to continue to reduce the
pace of purchases in measured steps through the first half of
next year, ending them around midyear. At that point, if the
economy had evolved along the lines we anticipated, the recovery
would have gained further momentum, unemployment would be in the
vicinity of 7 percent, and inflation would be moving toward our
2 percent objective. Such outcomes would be fully consistent
with the goals of the asset purchase program that we established
in September.  I emphasize that, because our asset purchases depend on
economic and financial developments, they are by no means on a
preset course. On the one hand, if economic conditions were to
improve faster than expected, and inflation appeared to be
rising decisively back toward our objective, the pace of asset
purchases could be reduced somewhat more quickly. On the other
hand, if the outlook for employment were to become relatively
less favorable, if inflation did not appear to be moving back
toward 2 percent, or if financial conditions -- which have
tightened recently -- were judged to be insufficiently
accommodative to allow us to attain our mandated objectives, the
current pace of purchases could be maintained for longer.
Indeed, if needed, the Committee would be prepared to employ all
of its tools, including an increase the pace of purchases for a
time, to promote a return to maximum employment in a context of
price stability.  As I noted, the second tool the Committee is using to
support the recovery is forward guidance regarding the path of
the federal funds rate. The Committee has said it intends to
maintain a high degree of monetary accommodation for a
considerable time after the asset purchase program ends and the
economic recovery strengthens. In particular, the Committee
anticipates that its current exceptionally low target range for
the federal funds rate will be appropriate at least as long as
the unemployment rate remains above 6-1/2 percent and inflation
and inflation expectations remain well behaved in the sense
described in the FOMC’s statement.  As I have observed on several occasions, the phrase “at
least as long as” is a key component of the policy rate
guidance. These words indicate that the specific numbers for
unemployment and inflation in the guidance are thresholds, not
triggers. Reaching one of the thresholds would not automatically
result in an increase in the federal funds rate target; rather,
it would lead the Committee to consider whether the outlook for
the labor market, inflation, and the broader economy justified
such an increase. For example, if a substantial part of the
reductions in measured unemployment were judged to reflect
cyclical declines in labor force participation rather than gains
in employment, the Committee would be unlikely to view a decline
in unemployment to 6-1/2 percent as a sufficient reason to raise
its target for the federal funds rate. Likewise, the Committee
would be unlikely to raise the funds rate if inflation remained
persistently below our longer-run objective. Moreover, so long
as the economy remains short of maximum employment, inflation
remains near our longer-run objective, and inflation
expectations remain well anchored, increases in the target for
the federal funds rate, once they begin, are likely to be
gradual.  Regulatory Reform  I will finish by providing you with a brief update on
progress on reforms to reduce the systemic risk of the largest
financial firms. As Governor Tarullo discussed in his testimony
last week before the Senate Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs
Committee, the Federal Reserve, with the other federal banking
agencies, adopted a final rule earlier this month to implement
the Basel III capital reforms.(2) The final rule increases the
quantity and quality of required regulatory capital by
establishing a new minimum common equity tier 1 capital ratio
and implementing a capital conservation buffer. The rule also
contains a supplementary leverage ratio and a countercyclical
capital buffer that apply only to large and internationally
active banking organizations, consistent with their systemic
importance. In addition, the Federal Reserve will propose
capital surcharges on firms that pose the greatest systemic risk
and will issue a proposal to implement the Basel III
quantitative liquidity requirements as they are phased in over
the next few years. The Federal Reserve is considering further
measures to strengthen the capital positions of large,
internationally active banks, including the proposed rule issued
last week that would increase the required leverage ratios for
such firms.(3)  The Fed also is working to finalize the enhanced prudential
standards set out in sections 165 and 166 of the Dodd-Frank Act.
Among these standards, rules relating to stress testing and
resolution planning already are in place, and we have been
actively engaged in stress tests and reviewing the “first-wave”
resolution plans. In coordination with other agencies, we have
made significant progress on the key substantive issues relating
to the Volcker rule and are hoping to complete it by year-end.
Finally, the Federal Reserve is preparing to regulate and
supervise systemically important nonbank financial firms. Last
week, the Financial Stability Oversight Council designated two
nonbank financial firms; it has proposed the designation of a
third firm, which has requested a hearing before the council.(4)  We are developing a supervisory and regulatory framework
that can be tailored to each firm’s business mix, risk profile,
and systemic footprint, consistent with the Collins amendment
and other legal requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act. Thank
you. I would be pleased to take your questions.  Footnotes:
1 -- These projections reflect FOMC participants’ assessments
based on their individual judgments regarding appropriate
monetary policy.  2 -- See Daniel K. Tarullo (2013), “Dodd-Frank Implementation,”
statement before the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs, U.S. Senate, July 11,
www.federalreserve.gov/newsevents/testimony/tarullo20130711a.htm
; and Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (2013),
“Federal Reserve Board Approves Final Rule to Help Ensure Banks
Maintain Strong Capital Positions,” press release, July 2,
www.federalreserve.gov/newsevents/press/bcreg/20130702a.htm.  3 -- See Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System,
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency (2013), “Agencies Adopt
Supplementary Leverage Ratio Notice of Proposed Rulemaking,”
joint press release, July 9,
www.federalreserve.gov/newsevents/press/bcreg/20130709a.htm.  4 -- U.S. Department of the Treasury (2013), “Financial
Stability Oversight Council Makes First Nonbank Financial
Company Designations to Address Potential Threats to Financial
Stability,” press release, July 9,
www.treasury.gov/press-center/pressreleases/Pages/jl2004.aspx.
 