-- Bernanke Says Fed Weighs Higher Capital Levels for Large Banks
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-07-17T12:31:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/bernanke-says-fed-weighs-higher-capital-levels-for-large-banks.html
Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank is weighing additional measures
to strengthen capital standards for the biggest banks, including
a leverage ratio.  Capital standards at the biggest U.S. lenders would rise to
5 percent of assets for parent companies and 6 percent for their
banking units under a July 9 proposal by U.S. officials that
goes beyond rules approved by international regulators.  “The Federal Reserve is considering further measures to
strengthen the capital positions of large, internationally
active banks, including the proposed rule issued last week that
would increase the required leverage ratios for such firms,”
Bernanke said today in testimony prepared for delivery at a
House Financial Services Committee hearing.  Bankers and regulators are tangling over how high capital
standards must be to prevent a repeat of the 2008 financial
crisis. The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  set the floor
for capital at a flat 3 percent of assets in 2010, regardless of
how risky bankers consider their holdings.  The Fed “will propose capital surcharges on firms that
pose the greatest systemic risk and will issue a proposal to
implement the Basel III quantitative liquidity requirements as
they are phased in over the next few years,” Bernanke said.  The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency said last
week that leverage ratios would be pegged 2 percentage points
above the 3 percent international minimum for holding companies.
Capital at U.S.-backed deposit and lending units must be twice
the world standard at 6 percent, the OCC said.  ‘Significant Progress’  “In coordination with other agencies, we have made
significant progress on the key substantive issues relating to
the Volcker rule and are hoping to complete it by year-end,”
Bernanke said, referring to a measure that would ban proprietary
trading at banks.  Fed Governor  Daniel Tarullo  has said this leverage ratio is
too low, and U.S. agencies have proposed doubling the amount for
banking operations and a 5 percent threshold for their parent
companies.  The leverage ratio is meant to be stricter and more
transparent than existing standards. Those rules allow bankers
to sort their assets according to risk and hold less capital to
cover holdings they deem less dangerous, such as government
debt.  The risk-weighted  capital ratios  were set at 7 percent of
assets for all banks, plus another 1 percent to 2.5 percent for
lenders whose failure might threaten the entire financial
system.  Regulators became skeptical of the complex formulas behind
risk weightings after the financial crisis and instead demanded
a flat minimum amount of capital to back assets regardless of
the perceived risk. Banks will still have to meet the risk-based
standard, with the two capital gauges complementing each other,
according to regulators.  The Basel rules were created by a committee of central
bankers and regulators from 27 nations to improve and
standardize safety guidelines that govern the world’s lenders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  