-- Bharara Says U.S. Has Time to Bring Insider Trading Cases
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-07-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/bharara-says-u-s-has-time-to-bring-insider-trading-cases.html
When is a five-year statute of
limitations for securities fraud not five years? When it’s six
years, or 10 years, or never, according to  Manhattan  U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara.  The government’s chief prosecutor of Wall Street crimes,
Bharara was asked by CNBC’s  Jim Cramer  about his investigation
of SAC Capital Advisors LP and its founder  Steven A. Cohen  at a
conference yesterday in  New York .  “My understanding is that if you are going to bring some
of the cases, the statute of limitations is up, so if you don’t
do it this afternoon, is it over?” Cramer said.  Cramer was referring to a five-year deadline to file
securities fraud charges against anyone tied to allegedly
illicit trades by former SAC fund manager Mathew Martoma in late
July 2008.  No, Bharara said, declining to discuss SAC or Cohen.
Prosecutors bringing an insider trading case aren’t limited to a
five-year deadline and have years to bring conspiracy charges.
Bharara said prosecutors have a “variety of options” which can
give the government years to file charges.  “There are a lot of armchair lawyers and armchair
prosecutors who think that they know what the legal theories are
that we can pursue and what statute of limitations issues are
and often they are quite wrong,” said Bharara, speaking at the
CNBC Institutional Investor Delivering Alpha conference in New
York.  Dodd-Frank  The Dodd-Frank Act, passed in 2010, gives U.S. prosecutors
as long as six years to bring  securities fraud  charges, Bharara
said. Federal prosecutors can also use a conspiracy charge to
bring a case involving a continuing pattern of misconduct that
spans years, and while prosecutors normally have a five-year
deadline to bring mail fraud and  wire fraud  charges, the
deadline can be pushed to 10 years if the crimes affect a
financial institution, he said.  “A lot of people thought the statute of limitations is
five years in particular cases, but a bank fraud statute has a
statute of limitations of 10 years,” Bharara said. “If you’re
talking about wire fraud and mail fraud, which is specifically
five years, but if it affects a financial institution, it’s 10
years.”  Bharara, whose office has charged more than 80 people with
 insider trading  and won convictions against 73 portfolio
managers, hedge fund analysts and employees at publicly traded
companies, today refused to discuss any specific investigation.  Open-Ended  Bharara said the time limit for bringing conspiracy charges
could be open-ended if prosecutors can show continuing
misconduct.  “If you’re talking about ongoing misconduct, the
conspiracy theory elongates the statute, which people have not
appreciated, as far as I can tell,” Bharara said.  The government could also get around any five-year deadline
by using a charge of conspiracy if they find evidence that steps
were taken to further an insider-trading scheme after the trades
occurred, said Doug Burns, a former federal prosecutor in New
York. Prosecutors could also link a string of new insider-trading acts with an old act, calling it one continuing
conspiracy to get around any statutory deadlines.  “You can think of conspiracy as a wheel, with each prong
is a spoke of that hub” Burns said. “The government very often
can bring a multi-prong conspiracy and as long as one of prongs
occurs within the statute of limitations, and viewed as one
ongoing conspiracy, it avoids any statute of limitations issue.
The government has tremendous leeway to fashion a conspiracy to
include ongoing conduct.”  May Subpoenas  In May, prosecutors in Bharara’s office issued grand jury
subpoenas to Cohen and five SAC executives, a person familiar
with the matter said.  As part of their probe into SAC, prosecutors have
interviewed Tom Conheeney, SAC’s president; Steve Kessler, head
of compliance; Phillipp Villhauer, head trader; and Chief
Operating Officer Solomon Kumin, according to a second person
familiar with the matter. Cohen declined to testify before the
grand jury, said three people familiar with the matter. Cohen
has denied any wrongdoing.  “People shouldn’t be waiting for time to run out. That’s
not a good way to behave,” said Bharara, who told Cramer that
he doesn’t “even wear a watch.”  Martoma Charged  Martoma was charged by Bharara’s office in November,
accused of helping the hedge fund make $276 million by trading
in shares of Elan Corp. and Wyeth LLC, using illegal tips about
a drug to treat  Alzheimer’s disease .  When Martoma learned the companies would report negative
data on the drug, he had a 20-minute phone call with Cohen,
according to a civil complaint by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. The hedge fund owner, at Martoma’s
recommendation, sold off almost all of the fund’s $700 million
position in Elan and Wyeth, then sold the stock short,
prosecutors claimed. Martoma, who has pleaded not guilty, is
scheduled to go to trial on those charges in November.  In March,  Stamford , Connecticut-based SAC reached a record
$602 million settlement with the SEC, in which the $15 billion
fund neither admitted nor denied fault. A federal judge in New
York in April conditionally approved the accord.  Retroactive  Bharara wouldn’t address Cramer’s questions about the SAC
investigation and didn’t say today if Dodd-Frank, passed in 2010
could be retroactively applied to trades such as Martoma’s that
occurred in 2008. His office declined to comment when asked
about the issue.  Daniel Richman, a former federal prosecutor and a professor
at  Columbia Law School  in New York, said that the six-year
deadline under Dodd-Frank can’t be applied to crimes that
occurred before it was passed. However he said prosecutors could
still get around a five-year deadline by charging new crimes.  “Prosecutors have two ways to push against a limitations
period,” Richman said in a telephone interview. “They can
frame the fraudulent scheme, the conspiracy, or the racketeering
pattern as extending far beyond the big payout or key meeting.
And they can identify new crimes, like regulatory filings, false
statements or monetary transactions--that relate to, or involve
the proceeds of past crimes.”  Cramer asked Bharara about stories declaring that the
government has reached a deal with Cohen and won’t prosecute
him.  Elephant in Room  “Let’s use the elephant in the room -- that’s  Steve Cohen 
-- that you’ve made a deal and that deal is that there will not
be a prosecution?” Cramer asked.  Bharara said he wouldn’t discuss Cohen’s case and said they
were news stories of people “dealing in speculation.”  “I sent an e-mail to folks in recent times saying I don’t
understand how this is being reported because I’m pretty
confident that I’m the one making this decision, and I’m pretty
confident that I haven’t made a decision on this, so I don’t
know how it’s being reported that way.”  Bharara said that if a chief executive gets a call from his
office informing them they’re under federal investigation, they
should be prepared to cooperate with the government. He said the
executive might want to check whether or not the individual
“has an extra pair of underwear.”  “The most important thing to think about doing at that
moment is to think about how forthcoming you should be in and to
cooperate, because the history is that those who come forward
and are voluntary with information do better than those who
don’t,” he said.  The case is U.S. v. Martoma, 12-cr-00973, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  