-- Billionaire Icahn ‘Definitely’ Has a Candidate for Dell CEO
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2013-07-17T23:41:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/billionaire-icahn-definitely-has-a-candidate-for-dell-ceo.html
Billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  said
he “definitely” has a candidate in mind to be  Dell Inc. (DELL) ’s
chief executive officer if he succeeds in his fight for the
personal-computer maker.  “You can believe that we’re going to do whatever it takes
to get someone,” Icahn said today at the CNBC Institutional
Investor Delivering Alpha Conference in New York, citing past
successes replacing management at Biogen Idec Inc. and Motorola.
Icahn didn’t elaborate on the possible candidate to lead Dell.  Icahn, who holds an 8.7 percent  stake  in Dell, has been
agitating to force founder Michael Dell and buyout partner
Silver Lake Management LLC to sweeten their $13.65-a-share offer
to take the computer maker private. His rival offer of $14 would
allow Dell shareholders to retain equity in a publicly traded
portion of the company, plus a warrant that could be exchanged
for additional stock should Dell climb higher than $20.  Dell shareholders are scheduled to vote on the offers
tomorrow. While CEO Dell and  Silver Lake  consider their offer
best and final, according to people familiar with the situation,
the special committee of Dell’s board hasn’t been formally told
as much by the buyers, and believes the group has room to raise
the offer, another person said. The committee is contemplating
delaying the shareholder vote by about a week to seek a higher
bid or more time to win support for the deal, that person said.  ‘My Worry’  “If Dell raises -- my worry is if he does raise, that some
of the big institutions might go over to him,” Icahn said.
“I’m really happy he didn’t, but we’ll see what happens.”  Dell shares rose 1.1 percent today to $12.88 at the close
in New York, giving the  Round Rock , Texas-based company a market
capitalization of about $22.6 billion.  Icahn and Southeastern Asset Management Inc., which holds a
3.98 percent Dell stake, urged the board not to postpone the
vote in an open letter to shareholders today.  Separately, T. Rowe Price Group Inc., which holds 4.1
percent, reiterated its opposition to the Dell-Silver Lake offer
earlier this week, saying the buyout doesn’t “reflect the value
of Dell.” To succeed, the buyout needs to win approval from a
majority of holders excluding  Michael Dell , who has about a 16
percent stake.  Investors opposed to the transaction own more than 20
percent of Dell shares, according to a report last week from
shareholder adviser Glass Lewis & Co., which is backing Dell’s
bid with Silver Lake. Opponents may also include Harris
Associates LP, Yacktman Asset Management Co. and Pzena
Investment Management Inc., according to the report.  “I believe this will go to a proxy fight, and I think I
can win that proxy fight,” Icahn said. “I would like to own
the company,” Icahn said. “The most money I’ve ever made is
when we control these companies, when we get into them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in  New York  at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  