-- Billionaire Sawiris Wins U.K. Lawsuit Over $88 Million Deal Fee
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-07-17T12:40:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/billionaire-sawiris-wins-u-k-lawsuit-over-88-million-deal-fee.html
Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris 
won a lawsuit at the U.K.’s highest court over a 67 million euro
($88 million) brokerage fee against Alessandro Benedetti, an
Italian businessman.  Benedetti overcharged Sawiris by 31 million euros for
advice on the purchase of Wind Telecomunicazioni SpA, based on
market rates for deal advice, judges at the U.K.’s  Supreme Court 
said in a decision published today. Benedetti had challenged a
lower court ruling from 2010 that reduced his fee to 36 million
euros.  “Since that figure is significantly greater than the
market value of the services rendered, namely 36.3 million
euros, it follows that he is not entitled to any further
payment,” David Neuberger, one of the judges, said in the
ruling.  Benedetti originally sought a 3.7 billion-euro stake in
Rome-based Weather Investments II Sarl, the  investment company 
used to take control of Wind Telecomunicazioni, in an
unsuccessful court battle in 2009. Weather purchased 63 percent
of Wind Telecomunicazioni for 3 billion euros in a 2005
transaction and took on about 7 billion euros of debt, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “My family and I are very happy with the Supreme Court’s
decision that puts an end to this dispute once and for all,”
Sawiris, the chairman of Cairo-based Orascom Telecom Media &
Technology SAE, said in an e-mailed statement.  Sasha Radoja, a spokeswoman for Benedetti’s lawyers at
Herbert Smith Freehills LLP, didn’t immediately respond to a
phone call seeking comment.  The case is  Benedetti v. Sawiris,  High Court  of Justice
Chancery Division, HC07C2262.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 