-- BNY Mellon Opposes Central Bank Cash in Ratios, CFO Says
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-07-17T20:12:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/bny-mellon-opposes-central-bank-cash-in-ratios-cfo-says.html
Top executives at  Bank of New York
Mellon Corp.  said it doesn’t make sense for U.S. regulators to
include cash held at central banks as part of its  balance sheet .  “There are good arguments that central bank cash and
certain government-guaranteed debt should not be included and
that would have a major impact on us,” BNY Mellon Chief
Financial Officer Todd Gibbons said today during a conference
call with analysts and investors. The New York-based firm has
more than $200 billion of cash and government-backed securities
on its $360 billion balance sheet, he said.  BNY Mellon was one of eight large U.S. banks told by
regulators on July 9 they needed to meet higher  capital
requirements  by 2018. The holding companies would need to retain
capital equal to at least 5 percent of assets, and their banking
units would have to hold a minimum of 6 percent, under the
proposal.  “It’s kind of perverse to think that we have to hold
capital against cash that we hold at central banks,” BNY Mellon
Chief Executive Officer  Gerald Hassell  said today during the
call.  A July 10 research note from Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
estimated that BNY Mellon would fall short under both measures.
The bank could easily come into compliance with the rules by
selling some of the securities on its balance sheet,  Richard Bove , an analyst with Rafferty Capital Markets LLC, said in a
telephone interview before BNY Mellon’s earnings were announced
today.  BNY Mellon will discuss what’s included in the ratios with
regulators, and potentially engage clients in the discussions,
Gibbons said today in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  