-- BNY Mellon Hits Highest Since 2011 After Earnings
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s   a n d   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2013-07-17T20:47:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/bny-mellon-profit-rises-79-as-stock-market-rally-boosts-assets.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp. , the
world’s largest custody bank, rose to its highest price in more
than two years after first-quarter earnings beat analysts’
estimates.  Net  income  rose 79 percent to $833 million, or 71 cents a
share, from $466 million, or 39 cents, a year earlier, as a
stock-market rally boosted fees for overseeing client assets.
 BNY Mellon  beat the 59-cent-a-share  average estimate  of 15
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Rising markets and investor deposits lifted fees for
servicing and managing client money during the quarter. Chief
Executive Officer  Gerald Hassell  has been focused on increasing
the assets the bank oversees, cutting costs and raising prices
to existing customers to combat the impact of lower interest
rates. In 2011, Hassell trimmed jobs and set a target to save as
much as $700 million by 2015 through operational improvements.  “They put up a very solid quarter,”  Gerard Cassidy , an
analyst with  RBC Capital Markets , said today in a telephone
interview. “Rising rates moving forward will be positive for
them.”  BNY Mellon  shares  rose 1.9 percent to close at $30.92, the
highest price since Feb. 18, 2011. They earlier increased as
much as 4.7 percent, the biggest jump since October 2012. The
shares gained 20 percent this year, compared with the 48 percent
increase at Boston-based  State Street Corp. (STT)  and the 18 percent
advance by Chicago-based  Northern Trust Corp. (NTRS)   Northern Trust  Custody banks keep records, track performance and lend
securities for institutional investors. They also manage
investments for individuals and institutions.  Northern Trust, the third-largest independent U.S. custody
bank, said today that second-quarter profit rose 6.2 percent to
$187.9 million, or 78 cents a share, from $176.9 million, or 73
cents, a year earlier. Earnings missed the 83-cents-a-share
average estimate of fifteen analysts surveyed by Bloomberg,
sending shares down by the most since Jan. 16.  Higher-than-anticipated expenses “lowered earnings per
share by about 4 cents compared to the market expectation,”
 Marty Mosby , an analyst at Guggenheim Securities LLC in  Memphis ,
 Tennessee , said in an e-mailed statement.  Assets Rise  At BNY Mellon, assets under custody rose 4 percent to $26.2
trillion compared with a year earlier, while falling about 0.4
percent compared with the prior quarter because of lower values
in the fixed-income market. Assets under management increased by
10 percent to $1.43 trillion compared with a year earlier, and
rose 0.2 percent from the previous quarter as investors
deposited $21 billion into liability-driven investments, equity
and bond funds.  Investment-servicing fees rose 4.4 percent from a year
earlier and investment-management fees increased 6.4 percent as
the market rally lifted assets and the bank won new business.
Revenue increased 11 percent to $4 billion on higher assets and
fees.  Profit in this year’s second quarter included an after-tax
gain of $109 million, or 9 cents a share, related to an equity
investment.  The MSCI All Country World Index  rose  14 percent in the 12
months ended June 28, and fell 1.2 percent in the second
quarter. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 18 percent in the
12 months ended June 28, and increased 2.4 percent in the second
quarter.  Capital Requirements  BNY Mellon was one of eight large U.S. banks told by
regulators on July 9 they needed to meet higher  capital
requirements  by 2018. The firms would need to retain capital
equal to at least 5 percent of assets, and their banking units
would have to hold a minimum of 6 percent, under the proposal.  A July 10 research note from Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
estimated that BNY Mellon would fall short under both measures.
The bank could easily come into compliance with the rules by
selling some of the securities on its balance sheet,  Richard
Bove , an analyst with Rafferty Capital Markets LLC, said in a
telephone interview before the earnings were announced.  “The easiest thing to do is nothing” since the  Federal
Reserve ’s monetary policy has resulted in cash sitting on the
bank’s balance sheet that would be reinvested as interest rates
rise, Todd Gibbons, BNY Mellon’s chief financial officer, said
today in a telephone interview. He said the rules are uncertain
and changing, so it’s difficult for the firm to actually
calculate the ratio.  BNY Mellon’s Hassell and Gibbbons said today in a
conference call with analysts that it doesn’t make sense for
U.S. regulators to include cash held at central banks as part of
its balance sheet.  “It’s kind of perverse to think that we have to hold
capital against cash that we hold at central banks,” Hassell
said.  BNY Mellon has struggled to boost profit over the past two
years as near-zero  interest rates  have held down revenue from
 securities lending , cut income from its investment portfolio and
forced it to waive fees on money funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  