-- Boeing 787 Doesn’t Face Grounding on Fire, EU Agency Says
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l   a n d   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2013-07-17T22:31:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/boeing-787-doesn-t-face-grounding-on-fire-eu-agency-says.html
Boeing Co. (BA) ’s 787 Dreamliner jets,
grounded this year when batteries overheated, face no immediate
threat of being parked again after an onboard fire at London’s
Heathrow airport, the European Aviation Safety Agency said.  The world’s largest planemaker also has signaled that it
doesn’t expect a grounding order because of the July 12 blaze on
the Ethiopian Airlines Enterprise Dreamliner, according to an
official at a 787 customer who asked not to be identified
because the details aren’t public.  Those assessments were offered yesterday as Boeing and
Dreamliner operators including  Japan ’s  ANA Holdings Inc. (9202)  awaited
a report from the U.K. Air Accidents Investigation Branch on the
incident. It was the most-serious setback for Boeing’s marquee
jet since regulators ordered the global 787 fleet idled for
three months to fix lithium-ion battery meltdowns.  “It’s too early to say if the aircraft could be
grounded,” said Dominique Fouda, a spokesman for Cologne,
Germany-based EASA, which is providing advice to U.K. officials.
“We’re prepared to take action in our area of responsibility in
case it is demonstrated that there is an unsafe condition, which
is not the case so far.”  Honeywell International Inc. (HON) , maker of an emergency beacon
situated close to where the blaze occurred on the empty 787, is
assisting the AAIB inquiry, as are Chicago-based Boeing, U.S.
safety specialists and Ethiopian Airlines, which continues to
operate its three other Dreamliners.  Initial Review  The U.K. safety agency said it had no further comment
yesterday on the status of the fire probe. An initial review
showed no “direct causal” link between the fire and the
earlier battery faults, the  AAIB  said July 13.  Richard Aboulafia , an aerospace consultant, cautioned
against drawing conclusions about what caused the latest blaze
until regulators issue their findings. “I think it’s still wide
open,” he said in a telephone interview.  The 3-pound, 3-ounce (1.5 kilogram) Honeywell transmitter,
encased in an aluminum alloy box, seems an unlikely cause for a
blaze hot enough to have scorched the Dreamliner’s composite
skin, said Aboulafia, a vice president at Fairfax, Virginia-based Teal Group.  Boeing isn’t commenting on discussions with customers or
the U.K. inquiry, said Doug Alder, a spokesman. The shares rose
0.5 percent yesterday to $104.79, leaving them short of the pre-fire peak of $106.88 on July 11 that marked the highest close
since July 2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Transmitter Removal?  Alder also declined to comment on a Wall Street Journal
report, which cited a person it didn’t identify, that U.K.
regulators may suggest removing the emergency locator
transmitter from 787s as a precautionary measure while the
investigation continues.  While Honeywell would support regulators if they back the
devices’ temporary removal, it hasn’t gotten instructions to do
so, Steve Brecken, a spokesman, said in an e-mail to  Bloomberg
News  in response to that report. The shares of the  Morris
Township , New Jersey-based company gained 0.5 percent to $82.44.  “We haven’t heard of anyone being invited by the AAIB to
participate in the investigation but Honeywell,” Michel Merluzeau, a consultant at G2 Solutions in Kirkland,  Washington ,
said in a phone interview. The fire probably will “turn out to
be a serious event that fortunately has no significant impact on
the continuing return to normality with the 787’s production.”  Order Book  Boeing had delivered 66 Dreamliners to 11 airlines and a
leasing company through June, including six to  United Airlines ,
the world’s largest carrier and a unit of  United Continental
Holdings Inc. (UAL)  The 787, which has a list price of $206.8 million
in its cheapest version, has won 930 firm orders.  Ethiopian has seen no recurrence of the 787 problem in its
other planes, the Addis Ababa-based carrier said yesterday in
response to questions. United, Thomson Airways, LOT Polish
Airlines SA, ANA and Air India Ltd. also were among carriers
reporting that Dreamliner service continued as normal.  Indian authorities are in touch with Boeing over the
Heathrow incident, Civil Aviation Minister Ajit Singh said
yesterday in an interview in  New Delhi , while  China ’s  Hainan
Airlines Co. (600221)  said it also was in contact with the planemaker.
Hainan Airlines received the first of 10 Dreamliners on July 4.  Australia ’s  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) , which is due to receive
the first of 14 787s in September for its budget carrier
Jetstar, said it’s awaiting the outcome of the investigation.  “Jetstar has been briefed by Boeing,” a spokesman, Andrew McGinnes, said by e-mail. “Our first priority will always be
ensuring these aircraft are completely safe to fly.”  The delivery date for the first Jetstar 787 was put back a
month from a target of August after the earlier grounding.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in  London  at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  