-- Boeing Maritime Jet Gains Favor in Australia, Paring Drone Need
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-07-17T12:44:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/boeing-maritime-jet-gains-favor-in-australia-paring-drone-need.html
Australia  plans to buy more  Boeing
Co. (BA)  P-8 Poseidon maritime patrol jets than initially projected
to replace planes dating from the 1970s, reducing its
requirement for drones built by  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)   Funding for the purchase will be sought next year, with
talks under way about the exact mix of P-8s and MQ-4C Triton
unmanned aircraft, the head of the  Royal Australian Air Force ,
Air Marshal Geoff Brown, said in an interview in London.  Australia currently uses 18  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  AP-3C
Orions upgraded a decade ago to hunt submarines, monitor ship
traffic and aid in rescue missions, with some planes also
deployed in combat operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. While it
had planned to acquire eight aircraft and seven drones, the
number of P-8s could now reach into double figures, Brown said.  “We are making an argument that a larger number of P-8s
would be better,” he said. “I am not looking for more dollars,
I am just looking at where we spend the money.”  While the P-8 -- a Boeing 737 airliner modified to carry
gear that can detect submerged submarines, drop torpedoes and
fire weapons -- is more capable than the AP-3C, wider global
demands mean a substantial fleet is required, Brown said.  The shift in thinking toward P-8s, currently operated by
the U.S. Navy and Indian air force, doesn’t mean drones such as
the Triton, a version of the U.S. Air Force’s Global Hawk that’s
also used by the U.S. Navy -- are out of favor, he said.  “I’m still a great supporter of unmanned air systems,”
Brown said, adding that the Triton, while lacking weapons, would
be able to monitor far greater areas than an aircraft.  JSF ‘Confidence’  Brown said he also expects the RAAF to examine requirements
for smaller drones once operations in  Afghanistan  cease, to be
purchased outright or under a fee-for-service arrangement.  Australia deploys Israel Aerospace Industries Ltd. Heron
unmanned aircraft in that role and may replace them with larger
Heron-TPs, also built by the Tel Aviv company, or Reaper drones
from San Diego-based General Atomics Aeronautical Systems Inc.  Among other impending orders is one for Lockheed Martin’s
F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, of which Australia has bought 14 of
72 it plans to take with the aim of reaching operational status
by 2020, two years before Boeing Co. F/A-18 Hornets are retired.  The country has acquired 24 newer F/A-18E/F Super Hornets
as a gap filler, while planning to add 12 EA-18G Growlers -- a
version of the same aircraft used for electronic warfare.  Additional Super Hornet purchases are unlikely given
“increasing confidence” in the F-35 schedule, Brown said.  The initial JSFs will establish three combat squadrons and
a training unit, and Australia retains a long-term objective of
fielding 100 of the planes, with an order decision likely after
2020 when the Super Hornets will need retiring or upgrading.  Brown said that while he’s a backer of the F-35, he’s
frustrated by delays in arming the plane with an anti-ship
weapon, regarded as central to Australian requirements.  “A maritime strike missile is an important weapon for
us,” he said. “If there was any part of the program I have
been disappointed with it has been the slowness to address the
maritime strike weapon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in  London  at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  