-- BofA Expects Less Damage From Weaker Mortgage Market
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2013-07-17T15:28:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/bofa-expects-less-pain-from-weaker-mortgage-market-than-rivals.html
(Corrects to show CFO spoke in separate conference calls
starting from the second paragraph.)  Bank of America Corp . expects to
suffer less damage than its biggest rivals as higher interest
rates drive down mortgage lending this year.  “While clearly rates can have an impact, I’m not sure
we’ve seen quite the magnitude of the impact some others
discussed,” Chief Financial Officer  Bruce Thompson  told
reporters today after the company reported quarterly results.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the biggest U.S. home lender, and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , ranked second, have said mortgage lending
will slide in the second half of this year as refinancings wane,
and JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  warned the
effect could be dramatic. Bank of America’s pending mortgages
dropped 5 percent at the end of the second quarter from three
months earlier, Thompson said.  The bank has sought to rebuild market share into the “high
single digits” and continued to add mortgage loan officers in
branches and more people in sales and fulfillment, Thompson told
investors during a conference call. First-time home buyers may
offset some of the decline in refinancings if higher  interest
rates  are driven by an improving economy, he said.  “To the extent that the economy’s performing well, people
have jobs and  home prices  are going up, you will tend to see
people looking to purchase a home for the first time and that
benefits us,” Thompson told reporters. If rates rise, “you
tend to see less refinancing activity and so those revenues that
come out of refinancing are less. And the net of that is always
very difficult to predict.”  Second-quarter profit rose 63 percent company-wide, the
Charlotte, North Carolina-based company reported today. Bank of
America ranks second by assets among U.S. lenders, and had been
the largest mortgage lender after buying Countrywide Financial
Corp. as the 2008 financial crisis gathered steam. The bank
backed away from the market as it dealt with claims tied to
faulty home loans and mortgages.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rick Green in  New York  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  