-- BofA Sustains Equity Hit on Mortgage-Bond Value Decline
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-07-17T22:50:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/bofa-sustains-equity-hit-on-mortgage-bond-value-decline.html
Bank of America Corp. ’s shareholder
equity declined in the second quarter as the company’s bond
portfolio took the biggest hit from rising interest rates among
top lenders.  The second-largest U.S. bank by assets reported a $4.22
billion drop in a measure of equity that includes changes in
bond holdings, currency translations and pension adjustments.
The bulk was from unrealized losses in the securities portfolio,
including a $5.73 billion decline in the value of government-backed mortgage securities, according to figures on the
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank’s website today.  Investors are watching equity levels at the largest U.S.
banks after a  jump  in interest rates during the quarter eroded
bond values. While JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  Wells Fargo (WFC)  & Co. and
Citigroup Inc. also sustained losses on their securities, they
earned enough to compensate for the declines and boost equity.  Bank of America, run by Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , said total shareholder equity, which includes common
and preferred stock and retained earnings, fell to $231 billion
at the end of June from $237.3 billion at the end of March. That
included $4.01 billion in profit during the quarter, a 63
percent increase from a year earlier.  The lender redeemed $5.5 billion of preferred stock in the
period, which also helped trim shareholder equity. Common stock
and paid-in capital dropped as well.  Paper Losses  Accounting rules require banks to record unrealized gains
and losses from securities marked as “available-for-sale”
under accumulated other comprehensive income, or AOCI. Those are
excluded from net income and instead counted in balance sheet
equity.  Unrealized gains and losses are sometimes called paper
gains and losses because they reflect changes in values recorded
on a firm’s accounts that don’t result in cash changing hands.  Bank of America’s AOCI loss more than doubled to $7.71
billion at the end of June from $3.49 billion on March 31,
according to figures released on the bank’s website.  Under rules proposed by the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision, known as Basel III, the regulatory capital measure
known as Tier 1 common equity will also incorporate changes to
AOCI. A steep enough drop could push a bank below the minimum
ratio and force it to raise capital.  Agency MBS  Bank of America reported total unrealized losses on its
available-for-sale bond portfolio of $1.03 billion at the end of
June, a swing from $5.54 billion in paper gains three months
earlier, figures on the  supplement  included with second-quarter
earnings show.  Within the portfolio, agency mortgage-backed securities
swung to a net paper loss of $2.3 billion on June 30 from a
$3.43 billion net unrealized gain at the end of March.  The lender also booked $457 million in income, the most in
at least a year, by selling debt securities during the quarter.  Total paper gains on Wells Fargo’s securities fell to $5.1
billion at the end of June from $11.2 billion in March. That led
the San Francisco-based bank, the largest U.S. home lender, to
report a $3.35 billion hit to AOCI.  JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. bank by assets, sustained a $3.1
billion decline in AOCI and Citigroup, the third-biggest, had a
$2.1 billion deduction. Both are based in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  