-- BP Bid for Spill Payment Freeze Gets Friday Court Hearing
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-07-17T16:10:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/bp-bid-for-spill-payment-freeze-gets-friday-court-hearing.html
  BP Plc (BP/) ’s request to temporarily
halt payments from the court-supervised settlement program set
up after the 2010  Gulf of Mexico  oil spill will be considered at
a hearing this week.  BP yesterday asked U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  to
suspend payments while  Louis Freeh , former director of the
 Federal Bureau  of Investigation, probes possible misconduct in
the claims program. Barbier set a hearing on the motion for July
19 in federal court in New Orleans, ordering responses to
London-based BP’s claims to be filed by tomorrow.  Barbier ordered the investigation by Freeh on July 2, after
a staff attorney at the program was suspended for allegedly
taking fees from law firms while processing their clients’
claims from the oil spill settlement.  The program is paying an average of more than $73 million a
week and “it would be impractical if not impossible to recover
all tainted payments” made during the investigation, BP said in
its filing yesterday. An injunction freezing payments “is the
only way to ensure that BP is not further irreparably harmed”
by paying awards that may be “tainted by improprieties,”
according to the filing.  Nick Gagliano, spokesman for claims administrator Patrick
Juneau, didn’t immediately return a call for comment.  ‘Adequate Diligence’  BP alleged in yesterday’s filing that Juneau hired key
people for the program “without performing adequate
diligence.” Two of the settlement program’s “three senior
legal counsel recently were terminated after apparently
intervening in the processing of claims in which they appear to
have had a financial stake,” BP said.  BP is also battling Juneau over what the company has called
his misinterpretation of settlement terms. BP contends this
interpretation has resulted in the payment of hundreds of
millions of dollars in claims for “fictitious” losses.  Barbier has three times rejected BP’s request to force
Juneau to adopt the interpretation the company prefers. A U.S.
appeals court heard arguments in the dispute July 8, and a
decision is pending.  The case is In Re: Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana ( New Orleans ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  