-- Bunds Underperform Treasuries After Fed Says Tapering Not Preset
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2013-07-17T15:19:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/bunds-underperform-treasuries-after-fed-says-tapering-not-preset.html
German 10-year  government bonds 
underperformed U.S. Treasuries after Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  damped speculation the U.S. central bank is
close to ending its asset-purchase program.  The additional yield investors demand to hold 10-year
Treasuries instead of similar-maturity bunds shrank to the least
in almost two weeks after Bernanke said purchases “are by no
means on a preset course” and could be reduced more quickly or
expanded as economic conditions warrant.  Spain ’s bonds snapped a
three-day advance before the country auctions debt tomorrow.  “Treasuries have more of a chance to benefit from a dovish
Bernanke than bunds,” said  David Schnautz , a fixed income
strategist at Commerzbank AG in  New York . “When exactly we’ll
start seeing the tapering kick off, and in what incremental
steps, will shape intraday valuations. In the bigger scheme of
things, it’s clear that the Fed is way closer to the exit door”
than the  European Central Bank , he said.  Germany’s 10-year bund yield was little changed at 1.54
percent at 4:18 p.m. London time, after rising as much as four
basis points. The price of the 1.5 percent bond due in May 2023
was 99.67. Two-year notes yielded 0.08 percent.  The yield  spread  between Treasury 10-year notes and German
bunds narrowed five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to
93 basis points, the least since July 4 based on closing prices
compiled by Bloomberg.  The gap had widened the most since 2006 earlier this month
after Bernanke outlined on June 19 a possible timetable for
tapering asset purchases. The spread increased to 102 basis
points on July 12.  Bernanke Testimony  “The current pace of purchases could be maintained for
longer” if inflation remained too low, the outlook for
employment became less favorable or “financial conditions --
which have tightened recently -- were judged to be
insufficiently accommodative to allow us to attain our mandated
objectives,” Bernanke said today in prepared testimony to the
House Financial Services Committee.  Investors should favor bunds and expect the spread to widen
to 150 basis points, according to Alessandro Giansanti, a senior
rate strategist at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam.  “The movement has been very fast, because the last 40
percent of the widening has happened over the last month,
therefore a short-term reversal leg can’t be ruled out,”
Giansanti wrote in a client note. “Nevertheless, we suggest to
take advantage of any re-tightening in the spread to open long
positions at more attractive levels.”  Different Situation  Commerzbank’s Schnautz also recommended investors buy bunds
over Treasuries as “the situation is very much different in the
euro zone compared to the U.S.” and the ECB may introduce
further stimulus even as the Fed reduces its program.  Germany  sold 3.19 billion euros ($4.18 billion) of 10-year
securities at an average yield of 1.57 percent, up from 1.55
percent on June 19. That compares with a  record-low  1.28 percent
set at an auction on April 17.  Spain’s 10-year yields increased four basis points to 4.73
percent. The nation is scheduled to sell securities due between
2016 and 2023 tomorrow.  Volatility on Finnish bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today followed by those of Austria and  Portugal ,
according to measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between
two- and 10-year securities, and credit-default swaps.  Portugal’s borrowing costs increased to the highest since
October at an auction of 1.2 billion euros of 12-month bills.  The securities due in July 2014 were allotted at an average
yield of 1.72 percent, the debt management agency said. That
compares with 1.232 percent at a previous auction of 12-month
bills on May 15, and is the highest since Portugal sold the
securities at a rate of 2.1 percent on Oct. 17.  The nation’s two-year note yield fell for a third day,
dropping eight basis points to 5.36 percent. The rate on 10-year
bonds increased five basis points to 7.20 percent.  German bonds handed investors a loss of 0.7 percent this
year through yesterday, according to Bloomberg World Bond
Indexes. Treasuries dropped 2.5 percent, while Spanish
securities returned 5.8 percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  