-- Canadian Crudes Gain as U.S. Refinery Demand Hits 8-Year High
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-07-17T22:31:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/canadian-crudes-gain-as-u-s-refinery-demand-hits-8-year-high.html
Canadian crudes strengthened on the
 spot market  as U.S. refinery demand hit an eight-year high and
supplies fell for the third straight week. The Syncrude project
in  Alberta  was said to cut production estimates for July and
August.  U.S. refinery crude oil  inputs  reached 16.2 million barrels
a day last week, the highest level since August 2005, the Energy
Information Administration said today. U.S. domestic output plus
imports fell short of that amount at 15.2 million barrels a day.  Total U.S. stockpiles slipped to the lowest level since
January as 6.9 million barrels were withdrawn from storage.
Supplies in the Midwest, or PADD 2 region, where most Canadian
imports are received, sank 1.41 million barrels to 110.2
million, the fewest since Dec. 7.  “The Midwest is short crude following  Canada  flooding and
refinery restarts,” Adam Longson, an analyst with Morgan
Stanley in  New York , said in a note to clients this week.
“Canada is slowly returning and the pace of draws should slow
as early as next week.”  Western Canada Select for August delivery strengthened 95
cents a barrel to a $15.50-discount to U.S. benchmark West Texas
Intermediate oil, according to Calgary oil broker Net Energy
Inc. September delivery of the heavy bitumen blend gained 85
cents to a $20.75 discount.  Syncrude Reduction  The Syncrude oil-sands project in Alberta will produce a
total of 1.1 million barrels less than expected in July and
August, according to two people familiar with the matter, who
asked not to be identified because the information wasn’t
public.  August deliveries of Syncrude, a synthetic light oil from
oil-sands bitumen, rose 55 cents to $3.50 premium to WTI, Net
Energy said. July contracts surged by $3.25 a barrel to a $8.25
premium.  Supplies from Canada, the U.S.’s largest source of imports,
have been limited since record flooding in Alberta last month
shut down pipelines. The country’s largest oil producer,  Suncor
Energy Inc. (SU) , said yesterday it was back to full production.  Enbridge (ENB)  idled its oil-sands systems on June 22 after heavy
rain caused the ground to shift under Line 37, which leaked
1,300 barrels of oil from Nexen Inc.’s Long Lake project. The
northern portion of the Athabasca pipeline from Fort McMurray,
home of Suncor’s oil-sands operations, was returned to full
pressure as of July 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  