-- Canada Dollar Erases Loss as Bernanke Says Stimulus Data-Linked
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 2013-07-17T13:00:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/canada-dollar-erases-loss-as-bernanke-says-stimulus-data-linked.html
The Canadian dollar erased a loss
after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said curtailing
the central bank’s asset purchases remains linked to indications
of economic improvement.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, was little
changed at almost a three-week high before the first interest-rate announcement at 10 a.m. by Bank of  Canada  Governor Stephen
Poloz. Canada’s central bank will retain year-old language
crafted by his predecessor Mark Carney that indicates the next
move in the overnight policy rate will be upward, according to
all but one of 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “He injected uncertainty into the markets that are
tempering the recent bullishness in the U.S. dollar, and that
view is supportive of Canada’s currency,”  Joe Manimbo , a market
analyst at Western Union Business Solutions, a unit of Western
Union Co., said by phone from  Washington  about Bernanke. On
Poloz, he said “we’ll have to see whether or not he toes that
subtle hawkish stance.”  The loonie was little changed at C$1.0371 per U.S. dollar
at 8:53 a.m. in Toronto. It reached C$1.0326 on July 11, the
strongest level since June 20. One loonie buys 96.42 U.S. cents.  The Bank of Canada will keep its benchmark interest rate at
1 percent, according to a Bloomberg survey of 20 economists.  The Fed chairman’s remarks highlight the Federal Open
Market Committee’s desire to assure that the economy and labor
markets have sufficient momentum before reducing its $85 billion
in monthly bond purchases. An increase in borrowing costs since
the chairman first started discussing tapering purchases
threatens to slow the four-year expansion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in London at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  