-- Canadian Dollar Falls as Poloz Says Economy Remains Sluggish
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r   a n d   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-07-17T21:07:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/canadian-dollar-falls-as-poloz-says-economy-remains-sluggish.html
The Canadian dollar fell as Bank of
 Canada  Governor Stephen Poloz said the nation’s economy has
significant slack and inflation remains muted, pushing back the
potential for an interest-rate increase.  The currency weakened against the majority of its 16 most-traded peers as policy makers kept Canada’s benchmark rate on
overnight loans at 1 percent for the 23rd consecutive
announcement, as forecast by all 20 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey. Poloz tied higher rates to barometers of economic
health and said tighter policy can be expected “over time,”
retaining the bias that has been included in every policy
statement since April 17, 2012. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  said curtailing the U.S. central bank’s asset purchases
remains linked to indications of economic improvement.  Poloz “gave you a Fed-esque type statement that
essentially said ’we’re data dependent,’” said  Adrian Miller ,
the director of fixed-income strategies at GMP Securities LLC,
by phone from  New York . “For the Canadian market, it injects a
higher level of uncertainty and volatility.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known, fell 0.4
percent to C$1.0405 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. One
loonie buys 96.11 U.S. cents.  Bonds Rally  Canada’s 10-year benchmark  government bonds  rose, pushing
the yield down four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to
2.37 percent, after touching the lowest level since June 21. The
1.5 percent security maturing in June 2023 added 31 cents to
C$92.41.  The Bank of Canada will provide additional details tomorrow
about a two-year debt sale scheduled for July 24.  In his first rate decision since taking office June 3,
Poloz indicated he will extend a pause in  interest rates  since
September 2010 until he sees more durable signs of an economic
recovery. “As long as there is significant slack in the
Canadian economy, the inflation outlook remains muted, and
imbalances in the household sector continue to evolve
constructively, the considerable monetary policy stimulus
currently in place will remain appropriate,” according to the
statement.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. pushed back its forecast for a policy
rate increase by three months to the fourth quarter of 2014,
citing “nuanced” wording changes “that appear to be slightly
more dovish than previously,” senior economist Sandy Batten
said in an e-mail.  Economic Outlook  Poloz is counting on exports and business investment to
accelerate growth in the world’s 11th-largest economy through
2015 with consumers weighed down by near-record debts.  “He is a more dovish  Bank of Canada  governor and more
realistic, given the state of the Canadian economy,” Eimear Daly, a currency-market analyst at Monex Europe Ltd., said by
phone from  London , “When he was talking about normalization of
policy he was saying that it will happen over a long time.”  Monex forecast the currency will reach C$1.03 by end of
September and C$1.06 by year-end.  The Bank of Canada raised its economic growth forecast for
this year to 1.8 percent from an April prediction of 1.5
percent, while lowering the 2014 projection to 2.7 percent from
2.8 percent. Both figures exceed Bloomberg consensus forecasts
of 1.7 percent and 2.4 percent.  Fed Policy  The Fed chairman’s congressional testimony highlighted the
 Federal Open Market Committee ’s desire to assure that the
economy and labor markets have sufficient momentum before
reducing its $85 billion in monthly bond purchases. An increase
in borrowing costs since the chairman first started discussing
tapering purchases threatens to slow the four-year expansion.  Foreign investors bought Canadian securities at a reduced
pace in May from a month earlier as they sold government bonds
and curbed demand for stocks and company debt.  Purchases totaled C$6.74 billion ($6.49 billion) during the
month, from C$14.91 billion in April,  Statistics Canada  said
today in Ottawa. Purchases of money market instruments and bonds
fell to C$5.54 billion, from C$12.75 billion the previous month,
as non-resident investors sold C$3.50 billion of federal and
provincial bonds.  The loonie has gained 0.8 percent in the past three months
against nine developed-nation currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Index. The euro led gainers with
a 3 percent jump followed by the  U.S. dollar ’s 2.4 percent
increase.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in London at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  