-- Cano’s MLB All-Star Game Ends Early After Getting Hit by Harvey
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-07-17T04:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/cano-s-mlb-all-star-game-ends-early-after-getting-hit-by-harvey.html
The  New York Yankees  couldn’t even
escape injury at  Major League Baseball ’s All-Star Game. Robinson Cano’s night ended after he was hit near his right knee on the
third pitch of the game.  Cano limped off the field during the first inning and was
replaced by fellow second baseman  Dustin Pedroia  of the  Boston
Red Sox . Cano said he suffered a bruised quadriceps muscle that
tightened up on him one batter after being hit by a fastball
from New York Mets pitcher Matt Harvey, and left the game at New
York’s Citi Field as a precaution.  Cano’s American League team went on to defeat the National
League 3-0.  “That’s like any kid’s dream come true, playing in front
of the hometown crowd, and to leave after two pitches, that’s
disappointing,” Cano told reporters. “It felt a little tight
and I didn’t want to take any chances to make it worse. This is
an All-Star Game, you’re playing for the fans, but at the same
time you have to be smart.”  Cano leads the Yankees with a .302 batting average, 53 runs
scored, 21 home runs and 65 runs batted in at the All-Star
break. He’s played in all 95 games for a Yankees team that had
 Derek Jeter ,  Alex Rodriguez ,  Mark Teixeira  and Curtis Granderson
total 16 hits during the first half due to injuries.  Cano said he wasn’t in any pain and hopes to play in the
Yankees’ next game, on July 19 in Boston against the American
League East-leading Red Sox. X-rays taken at Citi Field last
night showed no damage other than the bruise and Cano said he
was told to ice and rest the injury.  After Mike Trout of the Los Angeles Angels led off the game
with a double on the first pitch, Cano was struck by a 96 mile-per-hour (154 kilometer-per-hour) pitch from Harvey. Cano said
Harvey apologized after the inning.  “He said, ‘My bad,’ and I said, ‘No problem,’’ Cano said.
‘‘I know he doesn’t want to hit nobody. It’s part of the game.”  The Yankees trail the  Red Sox  by six games in the AL East
heading into the second half of the season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  