-- Carney Unites BOE on QE as Rate Guidance Review Looms: Economy
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-07-17T10:47:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/carney-unites-boe-on-stimulus-as-minority-favors-mixed-strategy.html
Bank of England Governor  Mark Carney 
united officials to vote unanimously as  Paul Fisher  and  David Miles  dropped their call for more stimulus in favor of a “mixed
strategy” involving guidance on the path of interest rates.  At Carney’s debut decision, the Monetary Policy Committee
voted 9-0 to keep its  bond-purchase program  at 375 billion
pounds ($570 billion). All nine also wanted to keep the key
 interest rate  at a record-low 0.5 percent, according to the
minutes of their July 3-4 meeting published today in  London . A
separate report showed jobless claims fell more than economists
forecast in June.  Carney joined the BOE on July 1 and took a first step
toward forward guidance this month, saying the central bank will
keep  rates  low for longer than investors were betting. The MPC
is scheduled to publish a review of how to steer market
expectations next month and it said today the analysis would
have an “important bearing” on discussions in August.  “Given the already large size of the asset purchase
program, there was merit in pursuing a mixed strategy with
regards to the different policy instruments,” the minutes said.
“The committee’s August response to the requirement in its
remit to assess the merits of forward guidance and intermediate
thresholds would shed light on both the quantum of additional
stimulus required and the form it should take.”  The pound erased its decline against the dollar. It rose
0.4 percent to $1.5213 as of 11:44 a.m. London time, having
earlier reached $1.5246. Gilts fell, pushing the 10-year yield
up 7 basis points to 2.33 percent.  Jobless Claims  For the MPC members who said the current policy setting was
appropriate, “developments on the month had signalled that the
recovery was becoming more firmly established.” Data today
showed  U.K. jobless claims  fell 21,200 in June, the most in
three years. Economists forecast a decline of 8,000 based on the
median of 23 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Claims have fallen for eight straight months, taking the
jobless rate to 4.4 percent, the lowest since December 2010.
Based on International Labour Organisation standards, the
 unemployment rate  in the three months through May was unchanged
at 7.8 percent.  Still, the report underlined the pressure on households,
with  average earnings  growing just 1.7 percent at a time when
inflation is running at 2.9 percent. Excluding bonuses payment,
annual pay growth was 1 percent.  Unanimous Vote  Carney’s vote against QE further sets him apart from his
predecessor,  Mervyn King , whose attempt to increase stimulus was
foiled by an MPC majority citing rising inflation expectations.
The two other MPC members voting in recent months for more
stimulus, Miles and Fisher, both dropped their call for a 25
billion-pound expansion.  The July 4 outcome was the first unanimous vote for the
panel since October 2012. In a Bloomberg survey of 20 economists
published on July 12, only Investec Securities forecast a 9-0
vote. Fifteen predicted a 7-2 split.  Simon Hayes , an economist at Barclays Plc in London, said
while the outcome was a surprise, it doesn’t rule out the
resumption of QE at a later date.  “It appears that the dovish members of the MPC have agreed
to a more holistic discussion of policy options ahead of the
August decision,” Hayes said. “The minutes make it clear that
the doves reserve the right to reinstate their QE votes if they
consider forward guidance to be insufficiently stimulatory.”  Fed Spillovers  The MPC said in the minutes that an increase in market
interest rates prompted by a change of stance by the U.S.
Federal Reserve “represented an unwelcome tightening in
monetary conditions that, were it to persist, would risk
hampering the emerging recovery.”  “Given that, the committee agreed that it was important to
communicate” that the market’s view on interest rates wasn’t
justified, it said.  Bond yields surged after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  laid
out a potential timeline on June 19 for policy makers to begin
slowing monthly bond purchases this year. In response, the BOE
said July 4 that the “implied rise in the expected future path
of  bank rate  was not warranted by the recent developments in the
domestic economy.”  Bernanke is due to appear before Congress today on the
Fed’s semi-annual monetary policy report. Treasury 10-year note
yields rose 1 basis point to 2.54 percent. They touched 2.51
percent yesterday, the lowest since July 5.  Housing Starts  Also in the U.S., the Commerce Department will publish
 housing starts  for June and the Fed releases its analysis of
current economic conditions known as the  Beige Book . Economists
forecast that starts climbed 5 percent to a 960,000 annualized
rate.  At the BOE, the majority of the committee said that there
was “reason to be believe that the recovery might gain pace in
the second half of the year as confidence improved.”  After returning to growth in the first quarter, Britain’s
economy has shown some signs of gaining strength. Measures of
services, manufacturing and construction all improved in June,
while the National Institute of Economic and Social Research
estimates  economic growth  accelerated to 0.6 percent in the
second quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  