-- Chanos Says Shake Shack Saved Sons From All-Star Cabrera’s Bat
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2013-07-18T04:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/chanos-says-shake-shack-saved-sons-from-cabrera-s-all-star-bat.html
Jim Chanos , who oversees $6 billion
as the founder of Kynikos Associates Ltd., said Danny Meyer’s
hamburgers might have saved his two sons from getting struck by
a bat that slipped out of  Miguel Cabrera ’s hands during  Major
League Baseball ’s All-Star Game.  The bat flew into the stands down the third-base line after
a swing and miss by the Detroit Tigers’ All-Star third baseman
during the fourth inning two nights ago. It flew over about 10
rows of fans before hitting the empty seats next to Chanos, who
was seen dodging the projectile on the television broadcast by
News Corp.’s Fox network.  Chanos, the  money manager  who rose to fame shorting Enron
Corp., said his sons weren’t in their seats at the time because
they were grabbing food at Meyer’s Shake Shack stand at New
York’s Citi Field, home of the Mets.  “Luckily they got up to get a burger, so the bat landed
where they were sitting instead,” Chanos said in an interview
today at the CNBC Institutional Investor Delivering Alpha
Conference. “I e-mailed  Danny Meyer  and said his burger had
saved my sons.”  Meyer is the chief executive officer of Shake Shack’s
parent company, Union Square Hospitality Group. His other
restaurants include Gramercy Tavern, the Modern and North End
Grill, all in New York.  Chanos’s sons might have missed out on a valuable piece of
baseball memorabilia. Cabrera was the American League’s Most
Valuable Player last season after becoming the first major
leaguer in 45 years to lead his league in batting average, home
runs and runs batted in.  A bat easily documented to have been used by Cabrera in the
All-Star Game might be worth up to $5,000, said Ken Goldin, the
founder of West Berlin, New Jersey-based Goldin Auctions.  A boy wearing a  New York  Yankees jersey ended up with the
bat.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  