-- Charity’s Largest-Ever Lung Cancer Effort Seeks Causes
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2013-07-17T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/charity-s-largest-ever-lung-cancer-effort-seeks-causes.html
Cancer Research UK  is making its
biggest single investment ever in the study of lung cancer in an
effort to identify the genetic mutations suspected to be
involved in the spread of the disease.  The nine-year trial called TRACERx will cost about 14
million pounds ($21.3 million) and enroll 850 newly diagnosed
patients from across the country. Samples of their tumors will
be taken before and after surgery and later if the disease
returns. Genetic changes from different parts of the tumor and
between patients will be studied, as will the effect of
treatment on the disease.  “Lung cancer is where we’ve made relatively little
progress,” Harpal Kumar, the charity’s chief executive officer,
told reporters at a briefing in London yesterday. ’’We are much
better at picking up breast cancers.’’  At least two pharmaceutical companies are talking to the
charity about including patients from the trial in their own
drug-development programs,  Charles Swanton , lead researcher at
Cancer Research UK’s London Research Institute and  University
College London , said yesterday. He declined to name the
companies as they haven’t signed any agreement to work together.  About 42,000 people are diagnosed in the U.K. with lung
cancer each year and almost 35,000 die from it, making it the
most common cause of cancer death in the U.K., Kumar said. Less
than 10 percent of patients survive five years beyond diagnosis
as more than two-thirds of cases are discovered at a late stage,
the charity said.  While eight out of 10 lung cancers are caused by smoking,
more cases are being discovered in non-smokers as smoking rates
decline, Kumar said. Lung cancer has more genetic mutations than
any other type of cancer, Swanton said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in  London  at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  