-- China Downside Risks Increasing for Economic Growth: IMF
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-17T16:18:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/china-downside-risks-increasing-for-economic-growth-imf-says.html
The  International Monetary Fund  said
risks are increasing that  China ’s economic  growth  this year will
fall short of the lender’s forecast as it urged the nation to
follow through on policy reforms to sustain expansion.  “Downside risks” to the IMF’s 7.75 percent growth
estimate have risen after a gauge of manufacturing weakened in
June, the Washington-based fund said yesterday in its annual
assessment of  China’s economy . The report, which forecasts a
second-half pickup, doesn’t reflect July 15 government data
showing  expansion  slowed to 7.5 percent last quarter.  The world’s second-biggest economy is becoming increasingly
vulnerable to risks from an expansion of non-traditional sources
of credit and borrowing by local governments, the IMF said.
Premier  Li Keqiang  said this month that the nation should press
forward with restructuring as long as growth and employment stay
above unspecified limits.  “The growth outlook is clouded by mounting domestic
vulnerabilities in the financial, fiscal and real estate
sectors,” the IMF’s Executive Board said in a statement
accompanying the staff report. IMF officials “underscored the
importance of transitioning to a new growth path that is more
consumption-based, inclusive, and environmentally friendly.”  The IMF in May lowered its forecast for China’s growth to
about 7.75 percent for this year and next. That’s higher than
the 7.6 percent median estimate of 60 economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News  over the past month. China should use “on-budget
fiscal stimulus” to support the economy if expansion slows too
much below the government’s goal, the IMF said.  No Risk  That isn’t called for yet, mission chief Markus Rodlauer
said on a conference call yesterday.  “While there has been a moderate slowdown recently, the
current data in our view do not suggest a further stimulus is
needed at this juncture,” Rodlauer said.  The lender last week cut its projection for global growth
to 3.1 percent this year from a 3.3 percent forecast in April.  The fund repeated its assessment that the  yuan  is
“moderately undervalued against a broad basket of currencies”
and recommended China widen the yuan’s daily trading limits and
“make the central parity better reflect market conditions.”  China responded that the economy is “still on track to
achieve the 7.5 percent growth target this year, with monetary
and fiscal policies being well-placed to help smooth the
structural adjustment in the economy,” according to an
accompanying statement by Tao Zhang, the nation’s IMF executive
director.  Exchange Rate  Zhang also reiterated China’s stance that the yuan is
“close to its equilibrium level” and said the government has
committed to increase the flexibility of the  exchange rate .  The yuan has strengthened about 1.6 percent against the
 U.S. dollar  this year, the only increase out of 11 major Asian
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The IMF said the shift to less-regulated parts of the
system “poses risks to financial stability,” with the risk
that wealth-management and trust products “could over time
evolve into a systemic threat.”  Increasing local-government debt risks also raises the
chance of a “disorderly adjustment” in regional spending that
would drag down growth and spill over around the world, the IMF
said. The nation should avoid excess supply or policy missteps
in the real estate market that “could trigger an abrupt
investment decline” or sharp drop in prices, the fund said.  ‘Raising Vulnerabilities’  “China has maintained robust growth since the global
crisis, but the heavy reliance on credit and investment to
sustain activity is raising vulnerabilities,” the IMF said in
its report.  The fund called on China to move toward using money-market
interest rates, instead of bank  lending  and deposit rates, as
the primary tool of monetary policy. The central bank should
start by “establishing a stable short-term  interest rate ” such
as the seven-day or overnight interbank repurchase rate, the IMF
said.  Last month’s cash crunch, when interbank  rates  spiked to
the highest on record, was designed to signal the central bank’s
intention to rein in non-traditional credit growth, though the
situation was “exacerbated by uncertainty and a stronger
reaction by banks than anticipated,” the IMF said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Scott Lanman in Beijing at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  