-- China Resources Calls Media Reports on Purchase ‘Slander’
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-17T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/china-resources-power-falls-after-report-of-overpayment-in-deal.html
The parent of  China Resources Power
Holdings Co. (836)  said media reports on a purchase for which the unit
allegedly overpaid are full of “speculation, assumption and
malicious slander.”  The reputation of the company and its leader have been
“negatively affected” by the reports, Hong Kong-based China
Resources Holdings Co. said in a  statement  on its website
yesterday. The company said it reserves the right to pursue
legal remedies over words and actions that denigrate and slander
its reputation.  Hong Kong-listed China Resources Power fell the most in
more than two months yesterday after the official Xinhua  News
Agency  posted a letter on its website by one of its reporters
that said the power generator and the chairman of its state-owned parent intentionally overpaid for a 2010 purchase.  The shares fell 10 percent to close at HK$17.98, their
biggest drop since May 10. The city’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index 
was little changed. China Resources Power is unaware of the
reason for the change, it said in a statement to the  Hong Kong 
stock exchange yesterday.  The  letter  written by Xinhua reporter Wang Wenzhi said the
parent’s Chairman Song Lin overpaid when China Resources Power
spent 7.9 billion yuan ($1.3 billion) for an 80 percent stake in
coal-mine assets in Shanxi province that another party valued at
half the price, according to the letter.  “It’s rare for a state-owned news agency or its reporter
to take on another state-owned company in such a dramatic way,”
said Shi Yan, an analyst at UOB-Kay Hian Ltd. in  Shanghai .
“Some investors could just be too scared to continue to hold
the stock.”  Reporter’s Letter  Xinhua reporter Wang’s letter was first posted at
Xinhuanews.net and later picked up by Chinese news portals
including Sina.com and Sohu.com. He wrote that another company
had offered 5.2 billion  yuan  for the entire asset a few months
before the China Resources bid.  “Chairman Song Lin and other senior management
intentionally overpaid Shanxi Jinye Group’s assets in a 10
billion-yuan acquisition in 2010, causing billions of yuan of
losses in state-owned assets,” Wang wrote in the letter. He
didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment yesterday.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aibing Guo in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net ;
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Monahan at 
 amonahan@bloomberg.net  