-- China’s Stocks Retreat as Volatility Jumps to 3-Yr High
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-17T07:42:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/china-s-stock-index-futures-rise-before-foreign-investment-data.html
China’s stocks  fell for the first
time in three days, led by liquor companies and brokerages, as a
gauge of volatility in the benchmark index jumped to the highest
level since December 2010.  Kweichow Moutai Co. (600519) , the biggest liquor company by market
value, slumped to a three-week low after UBS AG said it sees
downward price pressure on alcoholic products.  Citic Securities
Co. (600030)  and  China  Citic Bank Corp. slid more than 2 percent,
dragging down a measure of financial companies. A gauge of real-estate developers rebounded after the Xinhua News Agency said
the government is poised to remove a ban on refinancing.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell 1 percent to 2,044.92 at
the close, after rising as much as 0.5 percent. Its 30-day
 volatility  was at 26.8 today, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The CSI 300 Index dropped 1.5 percent to 2,282.84.
The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  advanced 0.7 percent.  “Investors are divided over whether the government can
really prevent economic growth from slumping further in the
second half,” said  Li Jun , a strategist at Central China
Securities Co. in  Shanghai . “Trading is volatile.”  The Shanghai Composite has fallen 9.9 percent this year as
data from industrial production to exports pointed to a slowdown
in the economy and as money-market rates reached record highs
last month. The measure trades at 8.4 times 12-month projected
profit after valuations fell in June to the lowest level in at
least five years, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Liquor Stocks  A measure of consumer-staples stocks in the CSI 300 slumped
2.4 percent, the biggest decline among the 10 industry groups.
Kweichow Moutai fell 2.1 percent to 186.92  yuan .  Wuliangye Yibin
Co. (000858) , China’s second-biggest liquor maker by market value, lost 2
percent to 20.12 yuan. Luzhou Laojiao Co. slid 2.2 percent to
24.07 yuan.  Liquor makers’ earnings growth will be less than 20 percent
this year and mid-priced alcohol will be most affected by online
shopping, Wang Peng, an analyst at UBS, said at a briefing in
Shanghai today.  Premier  Li Keqiang  said yesterday the government will seek
to keep economic growth, employment and inflation within limits,
avoiding “wide fluctuations.”  China will focus on restructuring when the economy runs
within the limits of growth and inflation, shifting to
stabilizing growth or preventing inflation when those limits are
approached, he said. Li’s comments were the first made public
since the National Bureau of Statistics reported that economic
growth slowed for a second quarter.  Economic Risks  Deutsche Bank AG co-Chief Executive Officer Anshu Jain said
policy makers’ efforts to bolster domestic consumption and
reduce dependence on the government’s infrastructure spending
pose some risks.  “It’s the right strategy for them in the long run,” Jain
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s Haslinda Amin
today in  Singapore . Still, “if there is something to watch
closely in China, it would be the implications of that shift
from infrastructure spending.”  Citic Securities, China’s biggest listed brokerage, sank 3
percent to 10.64 yuan. Citic Bank, the banking unit of the
nation’s largest investment company, fell 2.3 percent to 3.82
yuan.  China Life Insurance Co. (601628) , the country’s biggest insurer,
lost 1.6 percent to 13.54 yuan.  Foreign direct investment in China rose to a record $14.39
billion yuan last month, according to the Ministry of Commerce.
The 20 percent growth compared with the estimate of a 0.7
percent gain in Bloomberg survey and the 0.3 percent May gain.  Whether FDI has recovered can’t be concluded from the June
data alone, ministry spokesman Shen Danyang said in Beijing. FDI
growth may be “relatively stable” in the second half of the
year, he said.  Developers’ Financing  The Shanghai Composite’s property index rebounded 0.6
percent, reversing a loss of as much as 1.4 percent, after a
report from the Xinhua News Agency said the removal of a ban on
fund-raising for developers looks certain. Real-estate stocks
fell earlier today after the government said it’s studying
expanding property taxes.  Financial Street Holdings Co. added 0.4 percent to 5.15
yuan. CityChamp Dartong Co. gained 1.2 percent to 8.64 yuan.  The Bloomberg China-US 55 Index, the measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese companies, added 0.5 percent in  New
York  yesterday.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  