-- China’s Thinning Margins Has Marubeni Betting on U.S. Growth
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r   a n d   I c h i r o   S u z u k i
-- 2013-07-18T07:21:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/china-s-thinning-margins-has-marubeni-betting-on-u-s-for-growth.html
China’s economic slowdown could be
worse than official forecasts and a recovery may not come before
2014, according to the chairman of  Marubeni Corp. (8002) ,  Japan ’s
biggest power and agriculture trading company.  Thinning cargo volumes and trading margins suggest China’s
gross domestic product may be expanding at less than the
announced 7.5 percent in the second quarter, Teruo Asada said in
an interview in  Tokyo , making the U.S. a better prospect for the
trader’s expansion.  “The Chinese economy will come back, but it will take
time,” possibly not until spring next year, because domestic
firms prioritize employment over efficiency and have created
overcapacity, Asada said. As Marubeni looks to expand its
agriculture, energy and mining business, “the first great
opportunity exists in the U.S. frankly speaking, it’s not China,
not  India .”  Expansion in China, the largest economy after the U.S., is
forecast to drop to the slowest in two decades amid a crackdown
on credit. U.S. growth may accelerate next year to the highest
since 2006 as  consumer confidence  firms, boosted by cheap gas
from shale rock and a resurgent stock market that closed at a
record high this week.  Once seen as a key market, China’s appeal for Japanese
trading houses, the nation’s biggest overseas investors, is also
complicated by political tensions between the two nations over
territorial claims last year. Anti-Japan demonstrations in China
in 2012 froze local output at factories of Japanese
manufacturers including  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  for several months.  Best Course  The best course for China would be to raise its economic
growth to 8 percent to 8.5 percent, which should satisfy both
Chinese and foreign businesses, as well as the nation’s people,
Asada said.  Marubeni rose 1.9 percent to 734 yen today, the  most in two
weeks , more than the 0.7 percent rise in the benchmark Topix
index. The stock has gained 20 percent this year to raise the
trader’s value to 1.28 trillion yen ($12.8 billion).  Marubeni relies on overseas sales for more than 80 percent
of its turnover, of which a third comes from the U.S., according
to Asada. The trader this month completed its biggest purchase,
the $2.7 billion acquisition of Gavilon Group LLC, cementing
itself as the largest soybean supplier to China.  Aside from Gavilon,  the U.S. assets  of Marubeni include oil
and gas fields in the  Gulf of Mexico , as well as factories to
make aircraft components and conveyor belts. In China, the
trader has auto-leasing, housing development,  animal feed  and
textile businesses.  Soybean Imports  Now Marubeni wants to expand sales of corn, soybeans and
wheat to markets in North Africa such as  Egypt , and in  Saudi
Arabia  and Southeast Asia. The trader will handle 55 million
metric tons of grain a year with the Gavilon acquisition as it
seeks to mount a challenge to global market leader Cargill Inc.  “We have to develop new markets as soon as possible after
the synergies with Gavilon,” Asada said. “Our advantage is
that we will be able to close in the supply side which Gavilon
holds in the U.S.”  Gavilon will also help Marubeni improve sourcing of grains
from  Russia  and eastern  Europe , and the trader wants new supply
channels of wheat from  Australia , he said. Marubeni last year
supplied about 20 percent of  China ’s 55 million tons of soybean
imports and its market share is growing, he said.  Grain demand is the “exception” to China’s oversupply in
resources, and shortages in soybeans will spread to corn in the
“very near future,” Asada said.  In terms of energy, Marubeni, which evaluates more than 200
acquisitions and mergers at any one time, seeks to build a full-cycle North American gas production chain from extraction of the
fuel from shale rocks to processing, separation, and
petrochemical facilities, as well as the transport of liquefied
natural gas to South America and other regions, Asada said.  Shale Gas  The trading company, the fifth-largest by profit in Japan,
is currently considering investments in shale gas assets on the
east coast of the U.S., he said.  Marubeni is planning to boost daily oil output to as much
as 70,000 barrels from 40,000 barrels within two years to three
years, mostly from U.S. and U.K. assets, Asada said.  The Tokyo-based trader, which traces its roots to the 19th
century, announced in May a 1.1 trillion yen ($11 billion)
investment plan through March 2016. Non-resource assets will
account for about 60 percent of the investments, Marubeni said.  Marubeni, which owns more than 10,000 megawatts of power
capacity globally, plans to add more generation assets in Europe
and  North America  to balance its portfolio in the industry,
Asada said. About 75 percent of Marubeni’s electricity assets
are currently in Southeast Asia and the  Middle East , he said.  European Target  “Our target is Europe and a big increase in the U.S. and
entry into South America for the IPP business,” Asada said,
referring to the independent power producer model. European
energy firms are under presser from lenders to sell part of
their assets and have made offers to Marubeni, he said.  Where the trading company is slowing its investments for
now is Australian resources and Chile’s copper mines due to the
high operating costs in both regions, Asada said.  The exception is Marubeni’s first iron ore mine which it
plans together with billionaire  Gina Rinehart ’s Hancock
Prospecting Pty. The 1 trillion yen Roy Hill project has an
“unbelievable” break-even point, Asada, who was Marubeni’s
chief executive officer for five years until this April, said.  “The operating costs including labor costs in Australia
are gradually decreasing,” but they will take another two years
to three years to “normalize,” Asada said.  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  is Japan’s biggest trading company by
profit and market value.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
 Ichiro Suzuki  in Tokyo at 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  