-- China Detains Activist Seeking Asset Disclosure, Lawyer Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-17T05:41:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/china-detains-activist-who-sought-asset-disclosure-lawyer-says.html
A Chinese  human-rights  lawyer who
called on the government to release activists arrested for
seeking asset disclosure has himself been detained, according to
a colleague.  Xu Zhiyong was detained yesterday on accusations that he
brought together a crowd to disturb public order, according to a
copy of a detention notice forwarded by his colleague and fellow
lawyer, Teng Biao.  The detention may reflect the limits of Communist Party
tolerance for scrutiny even as leaders call for a crackdown on
corruption and more public supervision. Even as some regions
have started pilot programs toward asset disclosure, top Chinese
officials aren’t required to reveal or account for their wealth.  “While the government is willing to show its efforts on
corruption by detaining and prosecuting a few high-profile
cases, it’s not really very serious on systematically stamping
out corruption,” Maya Wang, Asia researcher at  Human Rights
Watch  in  Hong Kong , said in a telephone interview.  Wang said Xu helped start a group called the New Citizens’
Movement that met across the country with the aim of fighting
corruption and seeking greater asset disclosure. About 15 people
have been detained since the start of April for those demands,
she said.  A call to the spokesman’s office of the Public Security
Ministry rang unanswered today. Xu and Teng had both signed an
letter seeking the release of the activists, the New York-based
group Human Rights in  China  said in a statement yesterday.  Four Activists  Four activists were detained in March after displaying
banners in public with slogans advocating asset disclosure,
according to New York-based Human Rights Watch. It said Xu was
arrested in July 2009 for allegedly evading tax payments on a
grant from  Yale University , and released a month later.  In June last year,  Bloomberg News  reported that the wealth
of Xi Jinping’s extended family included investments in
companies with total assets of $376 million; Hong Kong real
estate worth $55.6 million; and an 18 percent indirect stake in
a rare-earths company with $1.73 billion in assets. The  New York 
Times reported in October that the family of former Premier  Wen
Jiabao  had controlled assets of at least $2.7 billion.  In May, the Communist Party fired a vice chairman of the
country’s economic planning agency who was suspected of
disciplinary violations after a Chinese journalist posted
allegations of improper business dealings. China’s former
railway minister was given a suspended death sentence earlier
this month for abuse of power and taking bribes.  Premier  Li Keqiang  said in March that officials should
“give up all thought” of making money. He said the government
“will readily accept the supervision of all society and the
media.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  