-- China Pledges Drug Sector Crackdown Amid Glaxo Bribes Probe
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-17T06:41:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/china-urges-scrutiny-of-foreign-firms-as-glaxo-probed-for-bribes.html
China ’s food and drugs regulator
pledged to crack down on illegal activities in the nation’s
pharmaceutical industry after a  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  executive
described on national television how he used bribes to boost the
company’s sales.  The  Food and Drug Administration  is conducting a six-month
probe targeting fake drugs, unauthorized medicine sales and 
forged receipts, Yan Jiangying, a spokeswoman for the agency, 
told reporters in Beijing today. Regulators will also target 
bribery, she said, without specifically commenting on Glaxo, 
which Chinese police have accused of funneling payments to 
government officials and doctors to boost its drug sales.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM)  are among companies that
have been forced to apologize to Chinese consumers this year as
Chinese authorities seek to assuage public anger prompted by
scandals including contaminated milk powder and the sale of rat
meat as mutton. State media have also used the case involving
Glaxo as evidence for the need to rein in corporate misbehavior.  State-owned broadcaster  China Central Television  aired a
prime-time segment yesterday detailing how executives at the
U.K. drugmaker used a travel agency to funnel bribes to
government officials. The CCTV report featured Liang Hong,
operations manager for Glaxo China, explaining how executives
passed bribes to drug regulators, pricing officials at the
 National Development and Reform Commission  and hospital
officials. Chinese police detained four of Glaxo’s executives,
including Liang, as part of their investigation that began last
month.  Greater Scrutiny  China’s Communist Party called for greater scrutiny of
foreign companies operating in the world’s second-largest
economy. A commentary in today’s People’s Daily, the party’s
official newspaper, said cracking down on commercial bribery by
foreign companies “has great meaning for protecting economic
market order and maintaining a fair, competitive environment.”  The commentary was attributed to Zhong Sheng, who wasn’t
identified further. The name in Chinese is a homonym for “voice
of China.”  China is investigating at least four multinational
drugmakers as it widens its probe of Glaxo, according to Wendy
Wysong, the head of anti-corruption practice in Asia-Pacific at
law firm  Clifford Chance .  Novartis AG (NOVN)  hasn’t been contacted by Chinese authorities
with regards to the bribery probe,  Joe Jimenez , the Basel,
Switzerland-based drugmaker’s chief executive officer, said in
an earnings call with reporters today. Neither Novartis, nor any
other foreign drug companies apart from Glaxo, has been named so
far by Chinese authorities in connection with the investigation.  Medical Bribery  It’s time to put medical bribery “to the knife,” said a
separate commentary in today’s People’s Daily. Now is the time
to act as China deepens reform of the nation’s medical industry,
according to the article attributed to Wang Zhuoming, who wasn’t
further identified.  The China Daily newspaper said in an editorial today that
Glaxo’s case should serve as a warning to foreign and Chinese
companies that they must obey the law. The “bad apples”
involved in the allegations should “receive the punishment they
deserve,” the newspaper said.  The London-based drugmaker said earlier this week that it’s
cooperating with Chinese authorities and reviewing all historic
transactions with travel agencies. Glaxo said it was “deeply
concerned and disappointed” by the allegations.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Regina Tan in Beijing at 
 rtan87@bloomberg.net ;
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net ;
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  