-- China’s Money Rate Declines a Fourth Day on Maturing PBOC Bills
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2013-07-17T02:32:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/china-s-money-rate-declines-a-fourth-day-on-maturing-pboc-bills.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
declined for a fourth day on optimism bill redemptions by the
central bank will boost cash in the financial system.  About 160 billion  yuan  ($26 billion) of such securities are
due this week, after none matured last week, according to Chen Qi, a Shanghai-based strategist at UBS Securities Co. The
People’s Bank of China gauged demand for offerings of 91-day
bills, 28-day repurchase contracts and 14-day reverse-repo
agreements tomorrow, according to a trader at a primary dealer
required to bid at the auctions.  “The PBOC is continuing to suspend open-market operations,
allowing maturing bills to flow into the system,” Chen said.
“The maturing amount this week is quite big. Still, the outlook
for liquidity is cautious as policy makers aren’t likely to
inject funds.”  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, fell 11 basis points, or 0.11 percentage
point, to 3.60 percent at 10:04 a.m. in  Shanghai , according to a
weighted average compiled by the National Interbank Funding
Center. The one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed cost needed
to receive the floating seven-day repo rate, decreased two basis
points to 3.85 percent.  Premier  Li Keqiang  said China will seek to keep economic
growth, employment and inflation within limits, avoiding “wide
fluctuations,” without elaborating on what the government deems
acceptable. China should also develop a “scientific
macroeconomic policy framework” to offer markets “stable
predictability,” Li told a forum of advisers and executives
yesterday, according to a summary of the event published on the
government’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  