-- China’s Easy Money Flows Abroad as Credit Squeeze Hurts
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-18T07:31:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/china-s-easy-money-flows-abroad-as-credit-squeeze-hurts-at-home.html
As  China ’s cash squeeze claims
victims across the nation -- from a bailout-seeking shipyard to
a solar-panel maker missing a bond payment -- there are places
where Chinese money remains cheap and plentiful. Like Nigeria.  China Development Bank Corp. and  Export-Import Bank of
China  are lending billions of yuan to some of the world’s
riskiest regimes at interest rates hundreds of basis points
below the  cheapest commercial loans  available at home. That
lending in turn generates overseas contracts to build airports,
roads and shopping malls for state-owned Chinese companies that
are mired in debt.  “As opportunities go down and risks go up at home, these
policy banks have gained a lot of power and they want to sustain
themselves,”  Kevin Gallagher , a professor at  Boston University  
and author of the 2010 book “The Dragon in the Room” about 
Chinese investment in  Latin America , said in a telephone 
interview. “The majority of the countries that are getting the 
finance are countries with bond spreads that are through the 
roof.”  CDB, with a loan book more than three times the size of the
 World Bank ’s, and China Eximbank are wholly owned by the state
with a mandate to support Chinese foreign policy. Officials from
the lenders accompany the nation’s leaders across the globe
dispensing funds to forge ties from  Costa Rica  to Russia,
helping secure supplies of oil, gas and minerals and creating
work for some of China’s biggest state-owned enterprises.  Mexican Credit  Last month in Latin America, President  Xi Jinping  pledged
to lend $3 billion to 10 Caribbean nations, CDB offered a $900
million loan to build a refinery in Costa Rica, and Mexican oil
company  Petroleos Mexicanos  received a $1 billion line of credit
from China Eximbank. Separately, China Development Bank made a
$4.02 billion loan to  Venezuela ’s state-owned oil producer.  In the four weeks since China’s seven-day repurchase rate,
a gauge of interbank funding availability, rose to the highest
level since 2003, the two Beijing-based banks financed a $700
million airport and retail complex in Khartoum,  Sudan ;  loaned 
Russian oil producer OAO Rosneft $2 billion; provided $334
million in funds for a Balkan highway; gave a $100 million line
of credit to a Nigerian bank and $500 million to build four
airport terminals in the west African nation; and pledged as
much as $10 billion for infrastructure projects in Ivory Coast.  Hua Chunying, a spokeswoman for China’s foreign ministry,
declined to comment on China’s international lending by policy
banks. Calls to the policy banks’ press offices were unanswered.  Building Bridges  In many cases China is seeking to secure energy supplies.
In Venezuela, Brazil, Ecuador and Russia,  China Development Bank 
loans are paid for with oil shipments to China.  In other cases, the loans bring business for Chinese
companies. Nigerian trade and investment minister Olusegun Aganga, speaking to reporters on July 12 in Beijing, said China
Eximbank’s loan to build the airport terminals was given at
concessionary rates to create contracts for Chinese companies.  The loan has a 2 percent interest rate and a 22-year
repayment period, Nigerian Aviation Minister Stella Oduah said
in Abuja on July 3. “It’s almost free money,” she said.  Even China Eximbank itself, which is financed by bonds,
can’t borrow money that cheaply. This month it  sold  26 billion
yuan in bonds carrying  interest rates  ranging from 4 percent to
4.15 percent, according to company documents.  While Aganga and Nigerian President Goodluck Jonathan were
in Beijing, they signed an agreement with Power Construction
Corp. of China that may lead within a year to a $20 billion
project for 20,000 megawatts of electricity capacity in Nigeria,
with the Chinese company recouping the investment by selling
power to the grid, Aganga said.  Making Friends  “It’s not about aid anymore,” Aganga said. “Nigeria is
one country everyone wants to be friends with today.”  Things are less friendly in Ordos in  Inner Mongolia , where
mile after mile of vacant or unfinished apartment blocks stretch
across the city. Erdos Dongsheng City Construction Development &
Investment Group Co., owned by the local government, racked up
10.5 billion  yuan  in total debt by the end of 2010, a more than
15-fold rise in two years, according to its bond prospectus.
Municipal revenue fell 15.8 percent in Jan.-May from a year
earlier, according to official statistics.  China Rongsheng Heavy Industries Group Holdings Co., owner
of the nation’s biggest shipyard outside state control, said on
July 5 it was seeking financial help from the government after
orders plunged. China Rongsheng hasn’t sold bonds.  Solar-panel maker LDK Solar Co. in Xinyu said in April it
was unable to fully pay $23.8 million of dollar-denominated
convertible bonds. Last month LDK said it would restructure
another $240 million in debt owed to lenders including CDB and
 China Construction Bank Corp. (939)  LDK’s shares  plunged  66 percent
last year amid a global glut in solar panel capacity.  Policy Bonds  In the middle of this squeeze, the policy banks remain
unscathed. On July 9, China Development Bank sold nine-month
bonds at 4.37 percent -- 163 basis points below the central
bank’s one-year bank lending rate. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.  “Policy banks are essentially buying business for Chinese
construction firms overseas by effectively subsidizing the
substantial political risk in those countries,” said Patrick Chovanec, New York-based chief strategist at Silvercrest Asset
Management Group LLC and a former Tsinghua University professor.
“The immediate effect doesn’t conflict with efforts to rein in
domestic credit, so maybe that’s why you see overseas lending
going full speed ahead.”  The state-owned companies that are CDB and Eximbank’s
global partners also can tap bond markets at low interest rates.
Shandong Hi-Speed Group Co., which is helping build the Balkan
highway from Belgrade to Montenegro, sold 2.5 billion yuan in
two-year bonds in May with a 4.95 percent coupon.  First Step  Shandong Hi-Speed, originally set up to lace the home
province of philosopher Confucius with expressways, has projects
in East Timor, the Bahamas, Sudan, Iraq, Vietnam, Chad, Pakistan
and the Congo, according to its website. The company’s profit
fell and  total liabilities  surged by a third last year to 160.7
billion yuan.  It’s the same story for the state-owned Chinese company
building Khartoum’s airport with help from an Eximbank loan. Its
parent,  China Communications Construction Co. (1800) , with bank and
bond debt of 102.8 billion yuan at the end of March, sold 2
billion yuan in bonds in May at a 3.85 percent coupon.  Across the continent in Ivory Coast, the unit is expanding
the port of Abidjan, part of a package of loans that are mostly
from Eximbank, the country’s Planning Minister Albert Mabri Toikeusse said on July 10.  Cash Decline  At the end of last year, China Communication Construction
had yet to tap 515.8 billion yuan in lines of credit offered by
four Chinese commercial banks. The company’s cash on hand fell
by 12.7 billion yuan in the first three months of the year,
according to its May bond prospectus.  While Moody’s Investors Service Inc. and  Standard & Poor’s 
give China the fourth-highest investment grade, Nigeria, Serbia
and Venezuela all have junk ratings. Sudan, wracked by decades
of civil war that resulted in the secession of South Sudan in
2011, has no rating. Ivory Coast defaulted on dollar bonds two
years ago.  “The recent spate of overseas deals by China Eximbank and
China Development Bank are consistent with both banks’ missions
to facilitate the international expansion of Chinese
companies,” Erica Downs, a fellow at the  Brookings Institution 
in Washington who studies China’s energy and foreign policies,
wrote in an e-mail.  Outbound Investment  The press offices of China Communications Construction and
Shandong Hi-Speed didn’t answer calls seeking comment.  China’s total outbound investment during 2011-2015 may be
worth $550 billion, Xinhua News Agency reported on July 12,
citing Huo Jianguo, director of the Chinese Academy of
International Trade and Economic Cooperation under the Ministry
of Commerce.  China’s cheap money also buys friends, with loans and aid
from the state banks helping cement political ties. Venezuela
has taken in more than $40 billion in loans from China since
2008, most from China Development Bank, that it pays back with
oil shipments. Earlier this year Venezuelan President  Nicolas Maduro   pledged  100 years of friendship with China to visiting
Chinese officials attending the funeral of President  Hugo Chavez ,
who died in March.  “Building political goodwill probably is not the primary
purpose of the loans but may very well be a secondary one,”
said Downs at the Brookings Institution. “After all, supporting
China’s diplomacy is part of both banks’ mandates.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  