-- CIA Cover-Up Suit Over Scientist's Fatal Fall Dismissed
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-07-17T15:09:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/cia-cover-up-suit-over-scientist-s-fatal-fall-dismissed.html
A lawsuit accusing Central
Intelligence Agency employees of murdering military scientist
Frank Olson in 1953 after he raised concerns about testing
chemical and biological weapons on people without their consent
was dismissed.  The suit, brought by Olson’s family in federal court in
 Washington , was filed too late and is barred under an earlier
settlement, a judge ruled today. Eric and Nils Olson alleged
their father, who the CIA admitted was given LSD a few days
before his death, didn’t jump from a 13th floor window of the
Statler Hotel in  New York , but rather was pushed.  “While the court must limit its analysis to the four
corners of the complaint, the skeptical reader may wish to know
that the public record supports many of the allegations that
follow, farfetched as they may sound,” U.S. District Judge
James Boasberg said in the ruling.  Olson’s family has tried to piece together the
circumstances surrounding Frank Olson’s death ever since a 1975
government report on CIA activities in the U.S. said he
committed suicide after being given LSD without his knowledge.
They claim the agency has covered up the cause of their father’s
death for almost six decades.  In 1976, the Olsons threatened to sue the government unless
they received answers and a financial settlement, according to
the complaint.  Negligent Supervision  Their lawsuit, filed Nov. 28, included one claim of
negligent supervision by the agency. Each member of Olson’s
family was paid $187,500 as part of a settlement, according the
complaint.  Scott Gilbert, a lawyer for the Olson family at Gilbert LLP
in Washington, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail message
seeking comment on the decision.  The case is Olson v. U.S., 12-cv-01924, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  