-- CME’s Duffy Warns Senate That Proposed CFTC Rule to Hurt Brokers
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2013-07-17T18:58:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/cme-s-duffy-warns-senate-that-proposed-cftc-rule-to-hurt-brokers.html
A proposed U.S. rule meant to
protect futures customers’ money in a collapse like MF Global
Holdings Ltd. could “fundamentally change” how the market
functions, according to Terrence Duffy, executive chairman of
 CME Group (CME)  Inc.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission proposal that
futures brokerages set aside enough of their own money to cover
customers’ collateral deficits throughout the day may end up
driving clients from the market and companies out of business,
the Futures Industry Association and two Chicago firms,
Rosenthal Collins Group LLC and RJ O’Brien & Associates LLC,
told the agency earlier this year.  The proposal is part of a series of regulatory changes
designed to increase confidence in the futures industry after it
suffered two of its largest failures in the last two years. MF
Global collapsed in 2011 and reported a shortfall of $1.6
billion in customer funds. Russell Wasendorf Sr., founder and
CEO of futures brokerage Peregrine Financial Group Inc., was
sentenced in January to 50 years in prison after being convicted
of stealing more than $215 million from his customers.  While CME Group, owner of the world’s largest futures
market, supports improving customer protections, “if a proposed
‘protective’ measure is so expensive or its impact on market
structure is so severe that customers cannot effectively use
 futures markets  to mitigate risk or discover prices, the reason
to implement that measure needs to be re-examined,” Duffy said
in prepared testimony today for a Senate Committee on
Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry hearing on reauthorizing the
CFTC.  Tougher Standards  “It does not appear that any system currently exists or
could be constructed in the near future that will permit FCMs to
accurately calculate customer margin deficiencies, continuously
in real-time,” Duffy said, referring to brokerages as futures
commission merchants, or FCMs.  The proposal is still being considered by the CFTC,  Steve
Adamske , a spokesman, said in an e-mail. He declined to comment
on the criticism of the measure.  The CFTC regulation, released in November, includes tougher
auditing standards and disclosure of brokerage risks to clients.
The rules also describe how self-regulatory organizations
including the  National Futures Association  and CME Group should
monitor brokerages to ensure customer funds are segregated.  To protect customer funds, the CFTC proposed a change in
how collateral is kept. Futures customers back their trades by
putting up collateral. When a position moves against them,
clients must post variation margin, which can only be in the
form of cash. Futures brokerages typically call for the
variation margin overnight to be posted by the beginning of the
next day.  Residual Interest  Under the proposal, futures brokerages must at all times of
the day keep enough of their own proprietary money, or so-called
residual interest, on hand to cover all deficits from their
customers, whose positions can be in deficit prior to the margin
call. The CFTC said the proposal would avoid the potential that
brokerages would use end-of-day balancing to “obscure a
shortfall.”  That change would tie up additional capital and would
probably lead to increased costs for clients, according to the
brokerages.  The change would mean that some firms “will not be able to
survive,” and may cost the industry and clients tens of
billions of dollars, Mike Dawley, a  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
managing director and chairman of the industry-backed FIA, said
at a CFTC roundtable Feb. 5. “We can’t underestimate and under-appreciate how big of a deal that is,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 