-- Cold Showers Expose Budget Pinch as Ukraine Coffers Run Dry
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 2013-07-18T15:58:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/cold-showers-expose-budget-squeeze-as-ukraine-s-coffers-run-dry.html
Ukrainians are used to a few days a
year without hot water as sizzling summer temperatures give the
nation’s state-run utilities a chance to fix leaky pipes. This
year, the stoppages have stretched into months.  “It’s like living in the middle ages,” said Olga
Tymofeyshyna, a 25-year-old bank worker from Kamyanets-Podilsky,
about 50 miles from the border with Moldova. “Because of the
government’s inability to pay its bills we’re suffering from a
lack of basic services. We’re very angry.”  In addition to hot-water shortages, street cleaners in the
western town of Stryi threatened to block one of the former
Soviet republic’s busiest highways this month, complaining they
hadn’t been paid since April. In nearby Lviv,  Ukraine ’s seventh-biggest city, the treasury has blocked cash for school
renovations, including money donated by parents.  Ukraine, which was awarded more financial aid than any
eastern European nation in the past five years, is struggling to
recover from its second  recession  in four years and is “one
step away” from a balance-of-payments crisis,  Capital Economics 
Ltd. says. The fiscal gap has more than tripled from 2012, while
cash in the treasury’s budget-spending account has plunged to a
decade low. Months of talks have failed to bring a new bailout.  ‘Tricky Situation’  “It’s a tricky situation -- revenue can’t meet spending
because the budget assumes unreal growth,” said Alexander
Valchychen, chief economist at ICU investment bank in the
capital, Kiev. “The cash balance at the government’s treasury
account is chronically low.”  Ukraine’s fiscal gap widened to 22.5 billion hryvnia ($2.8
billion) in the first six months of the year from 6.7 billion
hryvnia in the same period of 2012, the  Finance Ministry  said
this week.  The budget is based on projected economic growth of 3.4
percent, while the  European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development  forecasts a 0.5 percent contraction as  Europe ’s debt
crisis curbs demand for steel, Ukraine’s main export earner.  Ukraine’s economy shrank 1.1 percent in the first quarter
from the same period a year ago, while industrial production
fell for the twelfth months in a row in June, sliding 5.7
percent, according to the state statistics data.  ‘Isn’t Easy’  The budget’s growth assumption will be revised once results
are in for the first nine months of the year, Halyna Pakhachuk,
head of the Finance Ministry’s debt department, told reporters
July 16 in Kiev. Fulfilling the existing budget “isn’t easy,”
she said.  The State Treasury’s account balance dwindled to 3.8
billion hryvnia as of July 1, the lowest level for that month
since 2003, according to its  website . Wage arrears jumped 11
percent from the previous month in May to 421.5 million hryvnia,
Trade Union Federation data show.  Residents of Ivano-Frankivsk, a town in western Ukraine,
where cash to fix roofs and overhaul apartment elevators hasn’t
been received from the government, have taken matters into their
own hands.  “Treasury! You owe Ivano-Frankivsk 2.6 million hryvnia for
hospital repairs,” reads one of several red-and-yellow
 billboards  erected next to streets and signed by the “town
inhabitants.”  ‘Desirable’ Spending  Reports of unpaid bills are false, the Treasury said July
12 by e-mail. Allocation of budget funds is being carried out in
accordance with the law, the Finance Ministry said July 8 in a
statement on its website.  Far from acknowledging spending delays, President  Viktor Yanukovych , who faces re-election in 2015, said last month that
it’s “desirable” for budget expenditure to be increased,
calling for a mid-year review of the budget. Lawmakers began
their summer break last week without fulfilling his wish.  Yanukovych instructed the government today to find
resources to purchase ambulances and increase premiums to
emergency doctors by Sept. 2. It should also ensure funding for
a Yanukovych social program for children is maintained,
according to a statement on the presidential website.  Ukraine has sold $2.3 billion of Eurobonds this year to
stave off a third International Monetary Fund bailout in four
years, with the government refusing to meet demands by the
Washington-based lender to cut energy subsidies that damage
state finances.  Reserves Plunge  The yield on the government’s dollar bond due 2023 has
risen to 9.327 percent from 7.599 percent when it was sold in
April, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The cost to insure state
debt against non-payment for five years using credit-default
swaps has surged to 796 basis points from 627 points at the
start of the year, behind only  Greece  and Cyprus in Europe.  Reserves at the central bank fell to a six-year low of
$23.1 billion in June as Ukraine repaid $1.1 billion of
Eurobonds. The slump “serves as a reminder that Ukraine’s
fragile external position continues to keep it one step away
from a full-blown balance-of-payments crisis,” London-based
Capital Economics wrote July 8 in an e-mailed note to clients.  The consequences are starting to be felt in Kiev.  Pavlo Golov, a teacher at the capital’s  National University 
of Theater, Cinema and Television, is still awaiting his
vacation pay, which is usually disbursed July 1.  “The accounts department blames the treasury and told me
they don’t know when the money will be paid or whether it will
come all at once or in chunks,” according to Golov, 28. “They
said I must wait and need to be patient.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  