-- Copper Treatment Costs Seen Higher on Increased Supply of Ore
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-07-17T13:08:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/copper-treatment-costs-seen-higher-on-increased-supply-of-ore.html
The cost of treating and refining
copper ore rose in the past month amid increased supplies from
mines, according to  Aurubis AG (NDA) , the world’s second-biggest
producer of refined metal.  Spot fees are now “well above” $80 a metric ton to treat
concentrate and 8 cents a pound to refine metal, Michaela Hessling, a spokeswoman for the Hamburg-based company, said
today by e-mail. That compares with levels of about $70 and 7
cents last month, she said.  Processing costs increase when ore supplies expand or
smelting capacity shrinks. Smelter closings for scheduled
maintenance also helped to lift the fees by reducing demand for
concentrate, partly processed ore that’s shipped from mines,
according to Hessling.  Concentrate production will expand 2.6 percent to 17.1
million tons this year, Morgan Stanley said this month in a
report. That will exceed demand by 53,300 tons, the bank said.  Rio Tinto Group made the first commercial copper shipment
this month from its Oyu Tolgoi mine in Mongolia and said
yesterday second-quarter production of mined copper gained 10
percent in annual terms. Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.
resumed concentrate deliveries from Grasberg in  Indonesia , where
a fatal accident in May interrupted activity.  Aurubis has said it will shut its Hamburg smelter as early
as September for seven weeks, reducing treating by 150,000 tons.
 Boliden AB (BOL) , a Swedish producer of industrial metals, closed
smelters including its Roennskaer copper plant for maintenance
last quarter. KGHM Polska Miedz SA said last week its Glogow
smelter would close July 14 for three months.  Aurubis produces about 1 million tons a year of cathode, a
refined form of copper, from both scrap metal and concentrate,
according to the company’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  