-- Coronavirus Not Global Health Emergency, WHO Panel Says
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-07-17T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/coronavirus-not-global-health-emergency-who-panel-says.html
The coronavirus that has killed 45
people, mostly in  Saudi Arabia , doesn’t pose a global health
emergency, a World Health Organization advisory committee said.  The WHO’s emergency committee, comprising public health
experts from outside the United Nations agency, decided
unanimously yesterday that Middle East respiratory syndrome
coronavirus, or MERS-CoV, doesn’t meet the conditions to be
classified a public health emergency of international concern,
the WHO said in a statement.  The 15-member committee, including Saudi Arabia’s deputy
health minister Ziad Memish and officials from six other
predominantly  Muslim countries , met via teleconference for the
second time to assess the threat posed by the virus, especially
as millions of visitors prepare to visit the kingdom for the
annual Hajj pilgrimage.  “They’re not saying this is not important, they’re not
saying let’s just now move onto other things,” Keiji Fukuda,
the WHO’s assistant director-general for health security and
environment, said yesterday at the agency’s headquarters in
Geneva after the panel’s decision. “Declarations and events
have to be proportional to each other. Otherwise you begin to
lose credibility.”  The previously unknown virus has infected at least 82
people and killed 45 since September, according to the WHO.
Saudi Arabia’s health ministry reported two more cases yesterday
that aren’t included in the WHO’s total.  Global Concern  While most cases have been detected in the kingdom,
infections in the U.K., France,  Germany  and  Italy  have sparked
concern of a global outbreak like the epidemic of severe acute
respiratory syndrome in 2003. Scientists still don’t know where
the new virus came from or how it’s spreading.  “There are a number of hypotheses, there are a number of
possibilities, but we’re still unable to say it’s this animal
species or that animal species which is the reservoir,” Fukuda
said.  The WHO plans to offer guidelines for people planning to
travel to Saudi Arabia for the Hajj in the next few days, but
doesn’t plan to recommend any restrictions on travel, he said.  Millions of visitors are expected in Mecca for the annual
Hajj pilgrimage in October. The Saudi government last month
asked visitors to postpone traveling to the country for Hajj,
citing construction at the city’s Grand Mosque, according to
Arab News.  While the new virus is related to the one that started the
SARS outbreak a decade ago, it’s less transmissible and probably
won’t cause a global pandemic, researchers from  France ’s Pasteur
Institute wrote in The Lancet journal earlier this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  