-- CPFL Leans on Esteves to Revive Renovaveis IPO: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i   a n d   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2013-07-17T14:43:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/cpfl-leans-on-esteves-to-revive-renovaveis-ipo-corporate-brazil.html
Utility  CPFL Energia SA (CPFE3)  is depending
on billionaire  Andre Esteves ’s Grupo BTG Pactual to raise at
least 899 million reais ($400 million) at an initial public
offering of its renewable-energy developer as investors shy away
from Brazilian stocks.  CPFL Energias Renovaveis SA (CPRE3) , which shelved an IPO last
year, and its shareholders are seeking to sell at least 71.9
million shares for 12.51 reais to 15.01 reais each, according to
a prospectus on its website. The developer of clean-energy
projects from wind farms to forest biomass plants said it plans
to release the deal’s results today. Investment bank BTG
Pactual, the leading underwriter in the offer, agreed to buy as
many as 40 million shares for 12.51 reais each should demand
fall short, the company said.  The pledge from BTG, along with a similar commitment from
 Banco do Brasil SA (BBAS3)  pension fund Previ to buy 31.9 million
shares, is crucial to ensure the offer succeeds after two other
deals were postponed last month. Airline Azul Linhas Aereas
Brasileiras SA and cement maker Votorantim Cimentos SA delayed
IPOs after  Brazil ’s sluggish growth, accelerating inflation and
weakening currency pushed the Ibovespa benchmark stock gauge
down 23 percent in 2013, erasing $248 billion in market value.  “If a bank is guaranteeing to buy a large portion of an
offering, investors will take this as a good sign,” Vitor Leonardo de Siqueira Sousa, an equity analyst at Mexico City-based brokerage firm Corporativo GBM SAB de CV, said by
telephone. “Now that the dust has settled a bit after last
year, I think things will go well.”  Global Turmoil  The company, known as CPFL Renovaveis, suspended an IPO
last year because of the turmoil in global markets that followed
the speculation that  Greece  could default on its debt and leave
the euro area, Investor Relations Director Eduardo Takeiti said
in a July 3 interview in Sao Paulo. The offering is more likely
to go ahead today because it has two of the country’s biggest
investors backing the deal, he said at the time.  CPFL Renovaveis is also better positioned to sell shares
than it was in 2012 because more of its projects are producing
electricity and generating revenue now, Takeiti said. It has
almost doubled generation capacity to 1,153 megawatts since its
August 2011 inception as a joint venture between CPFL Energia’s
renewable-energy assets and local developer ERSA Energias
Renovaveis. The company has 582 megawatts of capacity under
construction, including 18 wind farms.  Press officials at BTG and Previ didn’t respond to phone
calls and e-mails from Bloomberg News seeking comment on the
deal. An official at CPFL Renovaveis declined to comment.  Share Rally  A 10-month surge in shares of  Renova Energia SA (RNEW11) , Brazil’s
only publicly traded developer that focuses on wind farms, may
bolster investors’ confidence in CPFL Renovaveis as the rival
bucks a rout of hydro-power utility stocks, Maria Gabriela da Rocha Oliveira, a Sao Paulo-based analyst at Bloomberg New
Energy Finance, said yesterday in a telephone interview.  Renova has jumped 56 percent in Sao Paulo since Sept. 11,
when President  Dilma Rousseff  announced a plan to force large
hydro-power companies to cut rates in exchange for license
renewals that sent their shares plunging. State-run Centrais
Eletricas Brasileiras SA, which holds most of the power dam
permits being renewed under Rousseff’s plan, dropped 48 percent
over the same span and CPFL Renovaveis’s parent lost 7.4
percent.  “Up until recently, investment in renewable energy was
basically just asset financing,” Oliveira said. “Having more
companies going public shows that the market is maturing and
aligning with other clean energy markets around the world.”  A press official for Renova Energia declined to comment on
the company’s share performance when contacted by  Bloomberg
News .  Major Shareholders  While BTG’s support may help CPFL Renovaveis sell the
shares, the deal may not attract some investors because most of
the funds will go to major shareholders instead of the company
itself, said Rodolfo Amstalden, an equity analyst at consulting
firm Empiricus Research.  The company is seeking to raise at least 350 million reais
by selling 28 million new shares, while major shareholders
including funds managed by private equity firm Patria
Investimentos SA are selling 43.9 million shares valued at 550
million reais, based on the lower end of the offering’s target.  “Considering the size of its investment plan, the money
being raised by the company itself is not very relevant,”
Amstalden said by phone from  Sao Paulo . “It’s a deal that’s
more interesting for the shareholders, which will end up raising
more money than the company.”  CPFL Renovaveis is investing 1.1 billion reais this year to
expand its power generation capacity, according to the
offering’s prospectus.  The wind power developer “is a serious company with a
strong brand and large pipeline” of renewable-energy projects,
Corporativo’s Sousa said. “I think this offering will go
ahead.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net ;
Stephan Nielsen in Sao Paulo at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  