-- Credit Suisse Sued by Highland Capital Over Resort Loans
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-07-18T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/credit-suisse-sued-for-350-million-over-resort-loans.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  was sued for
more than $350 million by entities of Highland Capital
Management LP who claim it marketed loans for high-end
residential communities including the Yellowstone Club in
 Montana  based on unreasonable and deceptive appraisals.  The dispute stems from dividend capitalization loans for
Yellowstone, the Turtle Bay Resort in  Hawaii , the Park Highlands
Master Planned Community in North Las Vegas, Ginn Clubs &
Resorts and Rhodes Homes, according to a court filing July 16 in
New York State Supreme Court in  Manhattan .  The plaintiffs, Allenby LLC and Haygood LLC, were assigned
the claims by managed investment funds that participated as
lenders to the loans, according to the suit. They accused
Zurich-based Credit Suisse of using “compliant stooges in two
global appraisal firms” to overvalue the communities that
secured the loans to persuade the lenders to invest.  “Armed with these bogus appraisals, Credit Suisse duped
the lenders into investing hundreds of millions of dollars in
under-collateralized loans that eventually imploded,” according
to the plaintiffs.  Highland Capital Management, the Dallas-based debt manager,
and entities connected to it are behind the lawsuit, Drew Benson, a spokesman for Credit Suisse in  New York , said in an e-mail. Benson called the claims an “unfounded attempt by a
sophisticated investor to misuse the legal system to recover
losses” and said the bank will fight the lawsuit.  Same Court  Credit Suisse sued entities of Highland Capital in the same
court yesterday, accusing them of failing to honor commitments
to purchase and pay for interests in commercial loans, which the
bank said has cost Credit Suisse Loan Funding LLC and its Cayman
Islands branch tens of millions of dollars in damages.  The lawsuits involve different properties but similar types
of properties and investments, Benson said.  The suit involves a series of trades made between May and
July 2008 whereby Credit Suisse agreed to buy parts of
commercial loans with a face value of more than $78 million, and
Highland hasn’t paid the amounts owed on the loans or interest,
according to the suit.  Highland Capital Management declined to comment on both
suits, Stefan Prelog of Walek & Associates, which handles media
inquiries for the company, said in an e-mail.  Former timber baron Tim Blixseth and his ex-wife,  Edra Blixseth , founded the Yellowstone Club, near Big Sky, Montana,
in 2000 as a ski resort for millionaires looking for vacation
homes. Members paid a combined total of $205 million for 72
properties in 2005 alone.  Personal Use  The couple took cash for their personal use from a $375
million loan arranged by Credit Suisse that year, according to a
court ruling by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Ralph B. Kirscher in
Montana. Finances at the club deteriorated thereafter, and the
club eventually went bankrupt, Kirscher found.  Sam Byrne’s buyout firm, Boston-based CrossHarbor Capital
Partners LLC, acquired the club out of bankruptcy for $115
million in 2009. Members include Microsoft Corp. Chairman  Bill
Gates  and singer  Justin Timberlake , and prices range from more
than $2 million for a condominium to $18 million for a 350-acre
ranch.  The cases are Allenby LLC v. Credit Suisse AG, 652491/2013;
and Credit Suisse Loan Funding LLC v. Highland Crusader Offshore
Partners LLP, 652492/2013, New York State Supreme Court, New
York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  