-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Fall as Bernanke Says Purchases Not Preset
-- B y   S c o t t   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-07-17T20:47:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/credit-swaps-in-u-s-fall-as-bernanke-says-purchases-not-preset.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk fell to the lowest level since May after Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank’s bond purchases
“are by no means on a preset course.”  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, decreased 2
basis points to a mid-price of 76 basis points at 4:40 p.m. in
 New York , the lowest since May 28, according to prices compiled
by Bloomberg.  The Fed’s $85 billion of monthly bond purchases, intended
to bolster the economy, could be reduced more quickly or
expanded as economic conditions warrant, Bernanke said today to
the House Financial Services Committee. Investors have been
looking for indications as to when the central bank will begin
scaling back the  stimulus  measures.  “Because our asset purchases depend on economic and
financial developments, they are by no means on a preset
course,” Bernanke said in the testimony. “With unemployment
still high and declining only gradually, and with inflation
running below the committee’s longer-run objective, a highly
accommodative monetary policy will remain appropriate for the
foreseeable future.”  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Bond Purchases  Bernanke helped ease investor concern by stressing that
tapering would depend on economic data, according to  William Larkin , a fixed-income portfolio manager with Cabot Money
Management in Salem,  Massachusetts .  “If there is a slight growth slowdown going into September
because of a sequester and the Fed isn’t putting the line in the
sand on when they are going to slow bond purchases, that may
feed into investors continuing to reach for higher yields,”
Larkin said today in a telephone interview.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index fell 12 basis points to 362.4 basis points, the
lowest since May 23, Bloomberg prices show.  The  U.S. economy  maintained a “modest to moderate pace”
of growth in recent weeks, the Fed said today in its Beige Book
business survey.  New housing starts fell in June to the lowest level in
almost a year. Work began on 836,000 houses at an annualized
rate, the least since August and down 9.9 percent from a revised
928,000 pace in May, figures from the Commerce Department showed
today in  Washington .  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt widened 1.5 basis points to 545.6 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and less than BBB- at  Standard
& Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Harrison in New York at 
 sharrison52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  