-- Crude Fluctuates Before Inventory Report From EIA
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2013-07-17T13:36:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/crude-fluctuates-before-inventory-report-from-eia.html
West Texas Intermediate crude
fluctuated before government data that may show inventories
dropped and as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the
pace of bond purchases was not on a preset course.  Prices were little changed as the Energy Information
Administration will probably say that  stockpiles  fell by 2
million barrels last week, a Bloomberg survey showed. The
central bank’s asset purchases may be reduced more quickly or
expanded as economic conditions warrant, Bernanke said in
prepared testimony before the House Financial Services
Committee.  “We need to see a pretty sizable draw to get the rally
started up again,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker
at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “The big fear in
the market is that the Fed pulls back on its stimulus.”  WTI for August delivery slid 8 cents to $105.92 a barrel at
9:08 a.m. on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The volume of all
futures traded was 1.6 percent below the 100-day average.  Brent for September settlement gained 4 cents to $108.18 on
the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Volume was 19
percent below the 100-day average.  Crude stockpiles probably dropped in the seven days ended
July 12 to 371.9 million barrels, following a decline of 20.2
million in the prior two weeks, according to the Bloomberg
survey. The  American Petroleum Institute  said yesterday that
supplies dropped 2.6 million barrels, according to a person
familiar with the report.  ‘Might Retest’  “We did have a draw in crude from the API report
yesterday,” McGillian said. “If we get that confirmed from the
EIA, the market might try to retest recent highs.”  The API began releasing its weekly supply statistics on a
subscription basis this month. The industry group collects
information on a voluntary basis from operators of refineries,
bulk terminals and pipelines. The government requires that
reports be filed with the EIA for its weekly survey.  If the economy improved faster than expected, and inflation
rose “decisively” back toward the central bank’s 2 percent
target, “the pace of asset purchases could be reduced somewhat
more quickly,” Bernanke said. He has said the Fed may start
reducing $85 billion in monthly bond purchases, known as
quantitative easing, later this year.  “People are going to realize that tapering of quantitative
easing is on the cards, and there’s not going to be an escape
from this,” said Hakan Kocayusufpasaoglu, chief investment
officer at Archbridge Capital AG, a Zug, Switzerland-based hedge
fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in  New York  at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  