-- Danish Banking Outlook Is Negative on Loan Losses, Moody’s Says
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-07-17T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/danish-banking-outlook-is-negative-on-loan-losses-moody-s-says.html
The outlook on  Denmark ’s banking
industry remains negative as lenders face the risk of more bad
loans before economic recovery takes hold and property prices
improve, Moody’s Investors Service said.  The outlook for larger banks is stable, while mortgage
lenders and banks most reliant on market funding have negative
prospects, Kim Bergoe, vice president and senior credit officer
at Moody’s, said in a report published today. The outlook for
the banking industry has been negative since November 2008.  Denmark’s $320 billion economy is lagging behind its
Scandinavian neighbors as consumers struggle to emerge from a
burst property bubble that drove more than a dozen banks into
insolvency since 2008. Private spending, which makes up half of
the Danish economy, grew 0.1 percent in the first quarter as
gross domestic product stalled. Household debt reached a record
315 percent of disposable incomes last year, the International
Monetary Fund estimates.  “Loan losses could start to rise again as economic growth
remains slow,” Bergoe said in an interview. “The uncertainty
around  credit quality , and hence earnings, remains too big for
us to move to a stable outlook.”  Denmark’s government, the central bank and the country’s
biggest lender  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  have all cut growth forecasts for
this year since May 27. The government and central bank expect
0.5 percent growth in 2013, while Danske Bank sees GDP expanding
0.1 percent. The forecasters kept their 2014 estimates unchanged
in the 1.4 percent to 1.7 percent range.  Falling Loan Losses  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , the Nordic region’s biggest lender,
yesterday said net loan losses at its Danish retail unit fell 10
percent to 77 million euros ($101 million) in the three months
through June compared with the first quarter. It marked the
 third consecutive quarter  of declines in loan losses.  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA)  said operating profit at its
Danish branch network more than doubled to 194 million kronor
($29.5 million) in the second quarter from a year earlier as
loan losses slumped an annual 68 percent to 37 million kronor.  “We’re seeing a turnaround but a slow one” in Denmark,
Nordea’s Chief Executive Officer  Christian Clausen  said in a
phone interview from  Stockholm  on July 17. “We’re seeing
consumer sentiment going up and that, combined with the housing
market” recovery, “points toward an improvement,” he said.  While loan losses at Nordea’s Danish unit may fluctuate in
coming quarters, they are likely to be lower in 2014 as a whole
than this year, Clausen said.  ‘Right Direction’  Apartment prices in Denmark rose 7.3 percent in the 12
months through April while  house prices  gained 2.6 percent, the
statistics office said on July 3. That will reduce the need for
writedowns on loans and allow lenders to cancel earlier
provisions for loan losses, Christian Hede, a senior equity
analyst at Silkeborg, Denmark-based  Jyske Bank A/S (JYSK) , said.  Bergoe said Moody’s was cautious on the Danish  property
market  after a very long streak of falling prices and that it
needs “to see if things develop in the right direction over
time to be sure we’re seeing a trend, not just fluctuations.”  Moody’s said small and medium-sized companies will remain
the main source of loan losses to banks. Local lenders are more
vulnerable to losses than larger banks as they are exposed to
local industries such as farming, Moody’s said.  “Danske Bank and others may report the same trends as
Nordea and Handelsbanken, but pockets of weaknesses will remain
and some banks will move in the other direction,” Jyske Bank’s
Hede said. One such bank “could be  Sydbank A/S (SYDB) , as the economy
isn’t doing too well in southern Jutland and they have farm
exposures.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  