-- Danske Gains as Danish Banking Market Improves: Copenhagen Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-07-17T09:20:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/danske-gains-as-danish-banking-market-improves-copenhagen-mover.html
Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , Denmark’s largest
lender, gained the most among Copenhagen’s benchmark stocks as
quarterly reports from  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  and  Svenska Handelsbanken
AB (SHBA)  showed banking conditions in Denmark are improving.  Danske Bank rose as much as  1.1 percent  to 102 kroner in
the Danish capital, making it the best performing stock on the
Nasdaq OMX Copenhagen 20 Index. The shares gained 0.8 percent to
101.7 kroner at 11:03 a.m. local time, with trading volumes at
12 percent of the daily average in the past three months.  Nordea’s net loan losses at its Danish retail unit fell for
a third consecutive quarter, dropping to 77 million euros ($101
million) in the three months through June from 86 million euros
in the first quarter. The bank had a total profit of 772 million
euros. Operating profit at  Handelsbanken’s branches  in  Denmark 
more than doubled to 194 million kronor ($29.4 million) in the
second quarter as loan losses slumped 67 percent to 37 million
kronor from the same period a year earlier.  “There were no negative surprises in today’s reports from
Handelsbanken and Nordea as loan losses in Denmark continued to
decline,” Christian Hede, a Silkeborg, Denmark-based analyst at
Jyske Bank A/S, said in a telephone interview. “It confirms
that the Danish economy is moving in the right direction.”  Danske, which operates Denmark’s biggest retail bank
network and second-largest mortgage lender, held a 27.5 percent
share of total Danish lending at the end of March, according to
Danske Bank. Denmark’s economy stagnated in the first quarter
after businesses invested less and government spending dropped.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  