-- Del Monte Pacific Seen as Target for Suntory: Real M&A
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2013-07-18T10:05:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/del-monte-pacific-seen-as-target-for-suntory-real-m-a.html
Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd.’s (2587)  plan
to spend more on takeovers than any Japanese soft-drinks rival
over the past decade has made a target of  Del Monte Pacific (DELM)  Ltd.  Following Asia’s biggest initial public offering of 2013,
the maker of Boss coffee and Orangina soda has said it will
spend as much as $5 billion on deals to help double sales by
2020. Del Monte Pacific, the $893 million seller of fruit juices
in the Philippines and  India , would meet Suntory’s need for
fast-growing, emerging market assets, said  Malayan Banking Bhd. (MAY)   Del Monte Pacific “has a very attractive brand, so it does
make sense,” James Koh, a Singapore-based analyst at Maybank,
said in a phone interview. “These Japanese food and beverage
companies have slow growth at home and very strong product
expertise built up over many years.”  Suntory’s takeover budget surpasses spending by any
Japanese acquirer of overseas non-alcoholic beverage companies
since 2000, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. With the
Tokyo-based company cutting reliance on its home market, Del
Monte Pacific, based in Taguig City,  Philippines , offers a
distribution network across the country, Oversea-Chinese Banking
Corp. said.  Del Monte Pacific today  rose  as much as 4.2 percent, and
closed up 3 percent at 86.5 Singapore cents, its highest in more
than a month. The shares have gained 69 percent in 2013.  Suntory, the soft-drinks subsidiary of Suntory Holdings
Ltd., started trading this month after raising almost $4 billion
in Japan’s largest IPO in almost a year. The company, which also
owns the rights to Schweppes in Europe, said it plans to double
sales to 2 trillion yen ($20 billion) and intends to spend as
much as 500 billion yen on acquisitions.  Fast Decisions  “The IPO is an announcement that ‘we’re ready to buy,’”
said Mikihiko Yamato, deputy head of research at Tokyo-based JI
Asia. “If they show they have the money from the equity
markets, the potential sellers or the advisers will be coming.”  Nobuhiro Torii, Suntory’s chief executive officer and
president, said in a July 9 interview he’s hunting in both
mature and  emerging markets .  In developing nations, distribution is key, said Torii,
great-grandson of Shinjiro Torii, who founded Suntory in 1899.
As early as September, Suntory’s mergers-and-acquisitions team
will begin discussing more than 100 targets with the board, he
said.  “They could already be talking to the adviser companies,”
Yamato said in a phone interview. “It’s a family-led company,
which means for M&A, they’ve got a faster decision-making
process.”  Philippines’ Growth  Ribena and  Lucozade , blackcurrant and energy drinks brands
put up for sale by  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  in April and valued by
analysts at $2.3 billion, might be among the targets, Yamato
said.  “Lucozade and Ribena are a good fit,” Phil Carroll, an
analyst at Shore Capital Stockbrokers Ltd. in Liverpool,
 England , said in an interview. “They’d be buying into
established brands, so that takes part of the investment risk
away.”  Profit at Suntory fell 21 percent last year to 23.4 billion
yen, and more than two-thirds of its revenue came from  Japan ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Philippines, with Southeast Asia’s second-largest
population after  Indonesia , may be a focus for acquisitions,
said Lim Siyi, a Singapore-based analyst at Oversea-Chinese
Banking.  “Del Monte could provide them a good distribution
network,” he said, referring to Suntory. “They’ll need local
partners to penetrate these diverse markets.”  Definite Appeal  The Philippines is the largest market for Del Monte
Pacific, which sell juices, canned pineapple and tomato ketchup.
 Net income  at the company, which also sells food in Asia and the
Middle East under the S&W brand, has almost tripled in three
years to $32.1 million.  “We are considering acquisitions, but the company hasn’t
decided on targets yet,” said Kana Kamitani, a spokeswoman for
Suntory. Jennifer Luy, Singapore-based investor relations
manager at Del Monte Pacific, declined to comment, as did Glaxo
spokesman Simon Steel.  Should Suntory use all of its $5 billion allocation for
takeovers, it will outspend any other Japanese acquirer of
overseas non-alcoholic drinks companies, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Kirin Holdings Co. (2503)  has spent about $4.5 billion
on foreign non-alcoholic acquisitions, including dairy
companies, the data show.  Huge Cashpile  Closely held Suntory Holdings, which still  controls  Suntory
Beverage, bought  France ’s Orangina Schweppes Group in 2009.
While the value of that deal was never disclosed, people with
knowledge of the matter said it was about 2.6 billion euros, or
about $3.9 billion at the time.  In October 2011, Suntory was in talks to buy bottled-water
assets from  Danone (BN) , owner of the Evian and Volvic brands, people
familiar with the matter said at the time. No deal was ever
reached.  A purchase of Del Monte Pacific would require Suntory to
persuade the controlling  shareholder , NutriAsia Pacific Ltd., to
part with the company. A representative for NutriAsia said in an
e-mail that any talk of a sale was speculation and declined to
comment.  Suntory risks shareholder scrutiny if it fails to reach its
acquisition goals, said Mariko Semetko, a credit analyst at
Moody’s Corp. in  Tokyo .  “They’re sitting on a huge pile of cash,” she said in a
phone interview. “Developed markets are saturated and if you
want growth, it is natural to seek growth overseas. From a
diversification standpoint, it makes sense.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  