-- Dell Loses Communications Head as Buyout Vote Nears
-- B y   J u s t i n   B a c h m a n   a n d   A s h l e e   V a n c e
-- 2013-07-17T16:52:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/dell-loses-communications-head-as-buyout-vote-nears.html
Dell Inc. (DELL) , the personal-computer
maker facing a vote on a $24.4 billion buyout offer, is losing
its global head of communications, according to an internal e-mail obtained by Bloomberg.  Kelly McGinnis who joined Round Rock, Texas-based Dell in
March 2010, resigned for “another exciting leadership
opportunity” closer to her family in California, the e-mail
said. Marc Bien, a communications manager at Dell, will assume
the job at the end of July, when McGinnis leaves the company.  Dell shareholders are scheduled to vote tomorrow on a plan
by  Michael Dell  and Silver Lake Management LLC to take the
company private. A special committee of Dell’s board could move
to delay the vote for about a week to seek a higher bid or build
support for the $13.65-a-share offer. The buyout group considers
the proposal its “best and final” one, according to people
familiar with the situation.  Karen Quintos, Dell’s chief marketing officer, announced
McGinnis’s departure in a a memo Monday to the company’s
communications staff.  Under McGinnis’s leadership, “this Communications team has
helped improve Dell’s reputation and credibility as an end-to-end solutions provider through strategic events, thought
leadership campaigns and M&A activities, yielding substantial
increases in positive share of voice,” Quintos wrote.  Prior to joining Dell, McGinnis worked for Enfatico LLC,
the company’s public relations and advertising agency. Her
replacement, Bien, has spent three years on Dell’s
communications team involved in “reputation management, M&A and
most recently, LBO communications,” the e-mail said.  McGinnis didn’t immediately return a message seeking
comment.  David Frink , a spokesman for Dell, had no immediate
comment.  The Silver Lake-led group is facing an outcry from
billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  and several other large Dell
shareholders, who say the existing proposal undervalues the
company. Yesterday, the Dell committee reiterated its support
for the deal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Justin Bachman in  New York  at 
 jbachman2@bloomberg.net ;
Ashlee Vance in  San Francisco  at 
 avance3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  