-- Ex-Deutsche Bank Traders Said to Sue Over Libor Probe
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2013-07-17T12:19:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/deutsche-bank-traders-said-to-sue-for-wrongful-dismissal.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  was sued for
wrongful termination by four traders fired in the bank’s probe
into alleged rigging of interbank lending benchmarks such as
Euribor, two people familiar with the matter said.  Another banker, who was the most junior of a group of five
fired in February, reached a settlement with the bank, said the
people, who asked not to be identified as the matter isn’t
public. The other employees are suing the bank in  Frankfurt ,
Gesine Brackert, a spokeswoman for the labor court said, without
commenting on the reasons for the dismissals.  Regulators from  Canada  to  Switzerland  are investigating
whether more than a dozen lenders, including Deutsche Bank,
colluded to rig benchmark  interest rates  including Libor and
Euribor for profit or to mask their true cost of borrowing.
 Barclays Plc (BARC) , UBS AG and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc have
paid a total of about $2.5 billion in fines after admitting
wrongdoing.  “Upon discovering that certain employees acted
inappropriately, we sanctioned or dismissed employees, clawed
back the unvested compensation of employees, and we will
continue to do so as we complete our investigation,” said
 Ronald Weichert , a spokesman for Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank.  The lender has fired at least seven employees over
suspected misconduct in connection with rates. The bank,
continental  Europe ’s largest by assets, said in February that
while it would fire or suspend workers that acted
inappropriately, it wouldn’t identify individuals.  Managing Directors  The traders that filed the employment lawsuit were based in
Frankfurt and consisted of two managing directors, two directors
and a vice president, two people with knowledge of the matter
said in February. Submitting euro interbank offered rates was
part of their responsibilities, the people said.  The Frankfurt labor court attempted to negotiate a
settlement between the traders and Deutsche Bank in April,
Brackert said. A hearing on the dispute scheduled for August has
been postponed until September at the earliest, she said. Court
documents in German lawsuits aren’t publicly available.  Inappropriate Communication  Deutsche Bank justified the dismissal of the employees in
February by saying they had inappropriate communication with a
trader the bank fired at the end of 2011 for trying to rig
rates, said one of the people familiar with the matter.  Deutsche Bank isn’t the only lender to terminate traders
over the rates probes. RBS has fired seven people for Libor-related misconduct, including two managers, a person familiar
with the matter said in April. More than 25 people have left UBS
after an internal review of interest-rate manipulation, a person
familiar with the matter said in November.  Barclays has disciplined 13 employees and dismissed five,
 Rich Ricci , the bank’s former head of corporate and investment
banking, told British lawmakers in November.  Deutsche Bank said last July that its internal rates probe
found misconduct by individual employees though no wrongdoing by
current or former board members.  Joaquin Almunia , the European Commission’s antitrust chief,
said earlier this month that he’s seeking to settle probes into
the London Interbank Offered Rate and Euribor by year end.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net 
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net .
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  