-- Deutsche Boerse, Liquidnet Link for German Block Trading
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2013-07-17T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/deutsche-boerse-liquidnet-link-for-german-block-trading.html
Deutsche Boerse  AG and Liquidnet
Holdings Inc. said they will link dark pools to allow
institutional investors such as mutual funds to buy and sell
large blocks of German shares.  The operator of the Frankfurt stock exchange and the New
York-based trading platform, which says its clients manage about
$12.4 trillion, will offer a service where Liquidnet members and
Deutsche Boerse traders can match blocks of stock on the
exchange’s  Xetra MidPoint  electronic network. The service starts
on July 29, executives from both companies said in an interview.  “This is a new service for block trading in German
equities,” Martin Reck, managing director of cash markets for
Deutsche Boerse said in an interview. “We will bring together
two communities: the Xetra community of banks and brokers on our
system, and -- on the other hand -- the Liquidnet community,
reaching the buy side globally.”  Fund managers and institutional investors need a forum to
execute large block orders privately as executing them in public
may move the price of the securities. Exchange members who want
to trade blocks usually move to the over-the-counter market,
according to Deutsche Boerse, which wants to bring them back
onto its trading systems.  Liquidnet will act as a so-called block agent, matching the
liquidity on its own venue with that on Xetra MidPoint. That
will make it the first company to do so on Deutsche Boerse,
although others can apply to join. Xetra MidPoint enables
investors to trade without disclosing the volume or limit on
their transactions.  Dark Pools  Liquidnet, which allows customers to trade blocks of shares
in two dark pools, also executes customer orders on exchanges
through algorithms, or trading strategies that break larger buy
and sell requests into smaller pieces.  The company signed a similar agreement with SIX Group, the
operator of the Swiss stock exchange, in 2011.  “The Swiss exchange was the first step in this strategy
for us,” Per Loven, head of international corporate strategy at
Liquidnet said in an interview. “It’s a complement to our
existing business. We want to supply additional liquidity so the
buy side can interact with the Street, but in a way that doesn’t
expose their orders in the open market. We cannot always find
the other side of the institutional trade.”  The companies said high-volume traders pay 0.48 basis
points per executed order until the end of July, and low-volume
traders pay 0.55 basis points. They will waive the fees from
August through October, increasing the charges to 1 basis point
per executed order from November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net  or @NandiniSukumar on Twitter  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  