-- Deutsche Bank’s Jain Bullish on Dollar as Bond Volatility Falls
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-07-17T07:34:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/deutsche-bank-s-jain-bullish-on-dollar-as-bond-volatility-falls.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  co-Chief Executive
Officer, Anshu Jain said he’s “constructive” on the dollar and
praised the Federal Reserve for fostering a “slow, smooth”
adjustment in the bond market as it plans to trim purchases.  “We are very constructive on the U.S. dollar for very
fundamental reasons,” Jain said today in an interview with
Bloomberg Television in Singapore. “A combination of a U.S.
which is re-industrializing and a household which is starting to
spend again could presage a long strong period for the U.S.,
which of course would be good for the  dollar .”  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke, who is scheduled to address
U.S. lawmakers today and tomorrow, said June 19 the central bank
may begin to slow its $85 billion in monthly bond purchases this
year if economic growth meets policy makers’ goals. The Fed
should be happy with how the bond market has reacted, Jain said.  “This was an unprecedented program and the fact that
they’ve been able to announce the end to it, or the impending
end to it, without a major dislocation has to be very pleasing
for them,” he said. “I’m very glad that we’re getting a slow,
smooth continuous adjustment as opposed to a highly volatile
one, particularly in credit and mortgage markets.”  Price swings in benchmark Treasuries as measured by the
Merrill Lynch Option Volatility Estimate MOVE Index dropped to
88 yesterday, the least since June 19. It touched 117.89 on July
5, the highest since December 2010. The one-year average is
64.47.  Ebbing Volatility  Currency markets have calmed too, as shown by a drop in
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Global FX Volatility Index to 10.44
percent today, set for the lowest in a month based on closing
levels. It reached a one-year high of 11.77 on June 24.  The dollar has been buoyed by speculation that the Fed will
reduce the $85 billion of monthly Treasury and mortgage-bond
purchases that it uses to contain borrowing costs and pump money
into the economy.  The risk is that U.S. growth may not meet expectations.
 Sales (RSTAMOM)  at U.S. retailers climbed 0.4 percent last month, short of
the 0.8 percent gain that was the  median estimate  of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News, Commerce Department figures this
week showed. The report raised concern consumers are exercising
self-restraint that indicates the economy ended the second
quarter on a weak note.  Goldman Contrarian  Bernanke will present his semi-annual monetary policy
report to the House Financial Services Committee today, and will
appear before the Senate Banking Committee tomorrow.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is refusing to get caught up in
the hype that’s making the dollar this year’s best-performing
major currency.  Rivals have been too aggressive in anticipating tighter Fed
monetary policy, according to the Wall Street bank that
generates the highest percentage of its revenue from trading.
Goldman Sachs predicted the dollar will depreciate 6 percent to
$1.40 per euro over the next 12 months, from $1.3127 as of 8:32
a.m. in  London . The median estimate of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg is for a 5.9 percent jump to $1.24 by mid-2014.  Traders have misinterpreted the U.S. central bank’s recent
signals that it may reduce the amount of bonds it buys to mean
that interest-rate increases are also likely within the next two
years, said  Thomas Stolper , Goldman Sachs’s chief currency
strategist.  “The dollar has benefited from this tapering debate, but
the move will be temporary,” London-based Stolper said in a
July 15 phone interview. “There’s a risk that the Fed will hike
later than when markets anticipate. There’s a risk for further
re-pricing that could push the dollar down.”  Growth Strategy  Jain, 50, and co-CEO Juergen Fitschen led a meeting of the
management board and group executive committee in Singapore
yesterday, the bank’s first such gathering in the city state, it
said in a statement today. Jain said Deutsche Bank’s plans in
Asia are “clearly for expansion.”  The U.S. economy may grow at a pace near 3 percent or
possibly 3.5 percent in 2014 and into 2015, Jain said. A
Bloomberg survey of economists projects 1.8 percent this year,
2.7 percent in 2014 and 3 percent in 2015.  “U.S. growth is going to be strong,” Jain said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  