-- Dialog Semi Falls on Report of Delay in New Apple IPhone
-- B y   W e i x i n   Z h a
-- 2013-07-17T10:27:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/dialog-semi-falls-on-report-of-delay-in-new-apple-iphone.html
Dialog Semiconductor Plc (DLG)  fell the
most in three weeks after the Commercial Times reported that a
new IPhone mobile device from  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the German company’s
biggest customer, may be released later than scheduled.  Dialog Semiconductor dropped as much as 4.7 percent to
10.53 euros, the steepest intraday decline since June 21, and
was trading down 1.4 percent at 12:24 p.m. in  Frankfurt , valuing
the company at 741.3 million euros ($975 million). Trading
volume was 43 percent of the three-month daily average.  “Any kind of negative news from Apple will affect how
people think of Dialog’s stock” because of the U.S. company’s
role in the German manufacturer’s sales, Ali Farid Khwaja, a
London-based analyst at Berenberg Bank AG, said by phone.  Apple may delay the introduction of the iPhone 5S until the
end of 2013 after the design was changed to feature a bigger
screen, the Taipei-based newspaper reported today. Cupertino,
California-based Apple has been embroiled in lawsuits involving
patent disputes, and the iPhone has lost ground to competitors
in consumer satisfaction. Shares of Kirchheim, Germany-based
Dialog Semiconductor have meanwhile lost 18 percent this year.  “In the last six months, the news was mostly negative, so
Dialog’s stock has been under pressure lately,” Khwaja said.  The German manufacturer agreed to buy U.S. power-supply
integrated-circuit maker  IWatt Inc. (IWAT)  for $345 million earlier
this month in a step toward diversifying its product line. The
acquisition gives Dialog Semiconductor access to a market that
may grow to $11.5 billion by 2015, according to estimates by
research Gartner Inc. that were cited by Dialog.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weixin Zha in Frankfurt at 
 wzha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  