-- Emerging-Market Currencies Climb After Bernanke; Dollar Advances
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-07-17T21:24:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/dollar-erases-gains-as-bernanke-says-fed-purchases-not-preset-.html
Mexico’s peso and Brazil’s real led
a rally in emerging-market assets against the dollar as Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled the U.S. economy still
needs stimulus, boosting demand for higher-yielding securities.  The Bloomberg  Dollar Index , which tracks the greenback
against 10 other major currencies, pared gains after the Fed
chief said in testimony to Congress that central-bank bond
purchases “are by no means on a preset course.” Chile’s peso
gained for a fifth day, the longest winning streak since
January. U.S. Treasury 10-year  yields  fell to a two-week low.
The dollar rose versus the yen and euro.  The “main trade has been lots of  emerging markets  are
stronger as U.S. bond yields have come down,” said  Alan Ruskin ,
the global head of Group of 10 foreign-exchange strategy at
Deutsche Bank AG in New York. “These positions are on versus a
mix of U.S. dollar and euro, mainly.”  Mexico ’s peso rallied 1.3 percent to 12.4595 to the dollar
at 5 p.m. New York time. The Brazilian real strengthened 1.2
percent to 2.2261 per greenback after declining 0.5 percent
earlier to 2.2645, and Chile’s currency appreciated 0.6 percent
to 497.93 against the dollar.  The U.S. currency rose as much as 0.6 percent to $1.3083
per euro before trading at $1.3125, up 0.3 percent. The dollar
rose 0.5 percent to 99.59 yen. Europe’s shared currency gained
0.2 percent to 130.69 yen.  Treasury 10-year  note  yields fell to as low as 2.46
percent, the least since July 3.  Repositioning Portfolios  Swings in the greenback against the euro and yen amid
Bernanke’s testimony to the House Financial Services Committee
may have reflected technical issues in the market stemming from
traders repositioning their portfolios, said  Sebastien Galy , a
foreign-exchange strategist at Societe Generale SA in New York.  “Some accounts had likely waited for the speech to run
their operations in more liquid conditions,” Galy said. “The
pressure is now gone.”  The Bloomberg Dollar Index was up 0.2 percent to 1,032.36,
after gaining as much as 0.5 percent in its first advance in
three days and dropping 0.1 percent to 1,029.34, the lowest
level since June 21.  Bernanke’s testimony in his semi-annual report on monetary
policy highlighted the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s desire to
assure that the economy and labor markets have sufficient
momentum before reducing its monthly bond purchases.  Data-Dependent  If the economy improved faster than expected, and inflation
rose back “decisively” toward the central bank’s 2 percent
target, “the pace of asset purchases could be reduced somewhat
more quickly,” the 59-year-old Fed chairman said in testimony.
The Fed would also be prepared to increase the pace of purchases
“for a time, to promote a return to maximum employment in a
context of  price stability .”  Bernanke will testify to the Senate Banking Committee
tomorrow.  The Fed buys $85 billion of Treasuries and mortgage debt
each month as part of its third round of quantitative-easing
stimulus to cap borrowing costs, a program that tends to debase
the currency. It has held the benchmark  interest-rate  target at
zero to 0.25 percent since 2008 to support the economy.  “The expectations were that he would clarify or
specifically say when the Fed would start tempering, but that
didn’t happen,” Charles St-Arnaud, a foreign-exchange
strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in New York, said in a
telephone interview. “He was slightly more hawkish on the
tapering side, but on the flip side he seems to be more worried
about the economy.”  Beige Book  The Fed’s  Beige Book  business survey said today the  U.S.
economy  maintained a “modest to moderate pace” of growth in
recent weeks, bolstered by industries from housing to
manufacturing. The policy-setting FOMC next meets July 30-31.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Global FX Volatility Index, a
measure of currency fluctuations, declined to 10.11 percent, the
lowest since June 6. It reached a one-year high of 11.96 percent
on June 24.  An equally weighted basket of so-called BRICS emerging-market currencies rallied to the highest level versus the dollar
since June 18. BRICS refers to Brazil, Russia, India, China and
 South Africa . The currencies gained after Bernanke signaled no
imminent end to Fed bond buying.  The  Mexican peso  climbed versus all of its 16 most-traded
counterparts after Bernanke’s testimony. The Brazilian real
gained the second-most.  Sterling Rises  Sterling gained from a four-month low against the euro
after minutes of the  Bank of England ’s July 3-4 meeting showed
officials  Paul Fisher  and  David Miles  dropped their call to
expand the central bank’s stimulus program and rallied to
Governor  Mark Carney ’s policy of a “mixed strategy” involving
guidance on the path of  interest rates .  The pound appreciated 0.6 percent to 86.28 pence per euro
after touching 87.11, the weakest level since March 13. Sterling
gained 0.3 percent to $1.5212.  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $34 billion, compared with $27 billion yesterday,
according to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust
Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on
the Australian-U.S.-dollar  exchange rate  amounted to $5.9
billion, the largest share of trades at 17 percent. Dollar-Chinese-yuan options totaled $5.5 billion, or 16 percent, the
second-largest share.  Dollar-yuan options trading was 4 percent above the average
for the past five Wednesdays at a similar time in the day,
according to Bloomberg analysis. Aussie-dollar options trading
was 166 percent higher than average.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  