-- Down Syndrome’s Extra Chromosome Silenced in Lab Cells
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-07-17T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/down-syndrome-s-extra-chromosome-silenced-in-lab-cells.html
Scientists silenced the extra copy
of a chromosome that causes  Down syndrome  in laboratory stem
cells, offering the first evidence that it may be possible to
correct the genes responsible for the disorder.  The findings, published today in the journal  Nature , offer
new cell models for developing potential treatments, researchers
said. The models, aided by gene-manipulating technology from
 Sangamo Biosciences Inc. (SGMO) , may help researchers discover drug
targets for other ill health effects that come with the
syndrome, including  heart disease , hearing difficulties, and
weakened muscles.  Down syndrome slows physical and intellectual development.
About 6,000 babies are born every year with the condition, which
is caused by an extra copy of chromosome 21, according to the
U.S.  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention . While some
genetic disorders have been easier to study because a single
gene drives them, Down syndrome is more complex, said  Robert
Nussbaum , chief of genomic medicine at the  University of
California , San Francisco.  “It’s a technical tour-de-force,” Nussbaum said of the
research, in a telephone interview. “We don’t really understand
why the extra copy of chromosome 21 causes the problems it does.
So this might allow us to have a thorough description of what
goes wrong.” Nussbaum wasn’t involved in the study.  While the findings aren’t a cure for Down syndrome, they
make what was once a mysterious disorder much easier to study,
Nussbaum said.  Xist Gene  In today’s paper, researchers led by  Jeanne Lawrence , a
professor of the department of cell and developmental biology at
the University of Massachusetts Medical School, used a gene
called  Xist . The gene creates a regulating piece of RNA that
ordinarily quiets the second X chromosome in women. In women,
the extra RNA makes copies that coat the whole second X
chromosome, preventing it from producing proteins. The
scientists wondered if this quieting effect could be used
specifically to silence the third copy of chromosome 21.  The scientists used skin cells from a Down syndrome patient
that had been tricked into reverting into  stem cells  that, like
embryonic ones, can grow into any type of tissue. Then they
inserted a copy of Xist into the extra chromosome using
technology from Richmond, California-based Sangamo.  Once inserted into the stem cells, scientists switched on
Xist using the antibiotic tetracycline, setting off a process
that effectively silenced the extra chromosome, Lawrence said.  When the chromosome had been silenced, the cells grew
better in the culture, Lawrence said. What’s more, they saw an
increased rate of formation of cells that are precursors to
neurons.  Study Applications  The most immediate application for the discovery is to
learn about how the extra chromosome affects the development of
cells, said Lawrence.  “We do hope that over the longer term, the idea of
chromosome therapy could be applied to some aspects of the
disease,” she said. That’s more than a decade away, she said.
Because the technique wouldn’t work in all the cells of the
body, gene therapy based on this work could only be used for
targeted effects, such as lowering the risk of blood cancers.
Even a gene therapy for Down syndrome wouldn’t necessarily be a
cure, she said.  Physical issues that accompany Down syndrome include heart
defects, stomach trouble, hearing difficulties and a higher
likelihood of childhood leukemia.  Alzheimer’s disease  is also
very common among patients with the disorder. About 80 percent
of people with Down syndrome acquire the dementia, due to the
extra copy of a gene that boosts the formation of
characteristics of Alzheimer’s plaques in the brain.  Limited Funding  “Down syndrome is underfunded,” Lawrence said. “We’re
hoping what we’ve done here will accelerate multiple avenues of
research, and maybe give more hope to the community.”  Philip Gregory, the chief scientific officer of Sangamo,
said the company plans to continue working with Lawrence’s
group. He declined to say whether Sangamo would have any special
rights over discoveries made using the technique.  While women who are 35 and older have a higher risk of
giving birth to babies with Down syndrome, about 80 percent of
babies with the disorder are born to women who are younger than
that,  according to the CDC . The error that causes Down syndrome
occurs when either the sperm or egg is formed by the parents, so
that the baby ends up with 47, rather than 46, chromosomes in
every cell of the body. Why these errors happen isn’t known.  The average life expectancy of a person with Down syndrome
is 55 years, according to the National Association for Down
Syndrome,  an advocacy organization , though some people live
longer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  San Francisco  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  