-- DuPont Jumps After Sorkin Says Peltz Amasses Stake
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y   a n d   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2013-07-17T21:31:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/dupont-jumps-after-sorkin-says-trian-s-peltz-amasses-stake.html
DuPont Co. (DD)  rose the most in more
than a year after the New York Times’s  Andrew Ross Sorkin  said
activist investor  Nelson Peltz  amassed a “very big” stake in
the largest U.S. chemicals company by market value.  Sorkin spoke today at the CNBC Institutional Investor
Delivering Alpha Conference in New York. Peltz, the co-founder
and chief executive officer of New York-based Trian Fund
Management LP, declined to comment to Sorkin. Anne Tarbell, a
spokeswoman for Trian, and Michael Hanretta, a spokesman for
Wilmington, Delaware-based DuPont, declined to comment to
Bloomberg News.  DuPont rose 5.3 percent to $57.25 in New York, the biggest
gain since November 2011 and the highest closing price since
April 2000.  Activist investors generally acquire equity stakes in
companies and try to force management to make changes that boost
share prices and investor returns. Trian last year successfully
pushed Ingersoll-Rand Plc to sell some businesses. The Swords,
Ireland-based maker of air-conditioning systems and climate-control technologies is spinning off Allegion Plc, a unit that
sells residential and commercial door locks.  Peltz, 71, told the conference earlier today he wants
 PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  to buy  Mondelez International Inc. (MDLZ)  for $35 to $38 a
share in an all-stock deal. Peltz disclosed stakes in Mondelez
and Pepsi in April, feeding speculation that he would push to
unite the food makers.  In 2006, Trian waged a six-month proxy fight with H.J.
Heinz Co. to win seats on the board and persuade management to
execute a turnaround plan.  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. and Jorge Paulo Lemann’s 3G Capital Inc. bought the
manufacturer of ketchup and infant formula last month for about
$23 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  