-- EADS Said to Consider Adopting Name of Plane-Making Unit Airbus
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2013-07-17T14:32:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/eads-said-to-consider-adopting-name-of-plane-making-unit-airbus.html
European Aeronautic, Defence and
Space Co.  is looking at taking on the name of its better-known
Airbus SAS unit as Chief Executive Officer  Tom Enders  boosts
integration efforts, a person familiar with the plan said.  EADS directors may consider the change prior to the next
earnings presentation on July 31, according to the person, who
declined to be identified because no decision has yet been made.  The industrial conglomerate’s current name was adopted when
French, German and Spanish companies combined their aerospace
assets in 2000 to form a business better able to take on  Boeing
Co. (BA)  in multi-billion dollar global markets for commercial and
military aircraft, helicopters, space rockets and satellites.  A change in shareholder structure engineered by Enders may
have aided the change by removing national veto rights and
increasing the free float, with the CEO having said before that
a switch would make sense. Since becoming chief last June, he
has already adopted a single base in Toulouse,  France  -- home to
Airbus -- instead of a dual headquarters in Paris and Munich.  EADS’s executive committee meets today and the board
gathers next week, the person said. Both may mull a renaming in
the context of a wider strategic review seeking to reposition
the company’s defense assets, which it has struggled to grow.  EADS executives and investors including former co-chairman
Jean-Luc Lagardere have long spoken about one day adopting the
internationally familiar name of Airbus, which in 2012 produced
two-thirds of group revenue and profit.  French newspaper La Tribune reported earlier today that the
change was under consideration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse, France, at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  