-- Early Shutdown Seen for Reactors as Deman, Nat Gas Drop
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2013-07-17T17:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/early-shutdown-seen-for-reactors-as-deman-nat-gas-drop.html
A handful of U.S. nuclear reactors
are at risk for early retirement as aging plants face higher
costs, lower demand and a drop in prices for natural gas, a
competing fuel, according to a Vermont Law School report.  Sites including  Entergy Corp. (ETR) ’s Indian Point, Dominion
Resources Inc.’s Millstone and Constellation Energy Group Inc.’s
Nine Mile Point, among the largest reactors in the U.S.
Northeast, are at the highest risk for shutdown, according to
the report from the law school’s  Institute for Energy and the
Environment , which focuses on energy law and policy.  The three plants make up a combined 6,375 megawatts, or
about 6 percent of U.S. capacity, according to data from the
U.S.  Energy Information Administration .  Nationwide nuclear output is declining this year after four
reactors were permanently idled. Production may drop further as
a 73 percent drop in natural gas prices over the past five years
made gas plants more profitable while electricity demand dropped
to the  lowest seasonal level  since 2009 in the week ended July
5, according to Edison Electric Institute data. Lower gas prices
present an attractive alternative to nuclear production,
according to the report.  Nuclear plants “are not competitive because the U.S. has
the technical ability and a rich, diverse resource base to meet
the need for electricity with lower cost,” Mark Cooper, senior
fellow for economic analysis at the institute and law school,
wrote in the report.  Generation Mix  Nuclear generation accounted  for 19 percent of the power
produced in the U.S. last year, while natural gas made up about
30 percent, according to EIA data. The U.S. has the capacity to
produce about 107,938 megawatts per day, based on nameplate
capacity in a 2013 preliminary report by the EIA.  The high cost of refueling and maintenance, along with
concern for safety risks following floods that crippled  Japan ’s
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant in 2011, were also cited as
concerns for the nuclear industry.  “The plants’ economic environment is outside the NRC’s
area of concern,” Scott Burnell, spokesman for the U.S.  Nuclear
Regulatory Commission , said in a prepared statement. “The
plants are operating safely and the NRC will ensure they
continue to protect public health and safety whenever they
transition to decommissioning status.”  Other nuclear reactors named for risk of early retirement
include Entergy’s Palisades plant in  Michigan , Vermont Yankee in
Vermont and Fitzpatrick in New York;  Exelon Corp. (EXC) ’s Oyster Creek
reactor in New Jersey; and Omaha Public Power District’s Fort
Calhoun in  Nebraska , which has been idled since 2011, when
flooding on the Missouri River extended a shutdown.  Constellation, which operates the Nine Mile Point and Ginna
reactors, is an energy company of Exelon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  