-- EBay Revenue Forecast Trails as Growth Abroad Slows
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2013-07-18T20:27:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/ebay-revenue-forecast-misses-as-growth-abroad-slows.html
EBay Inc. (EBAY)  tumbled the most in almost
two years after the company’s revenue forecast fell short of
analysts’ estimates, as economic weakness in  Europe  and  Asia 
restricts growth.  The shares fell 6.7 percent to $53.52 at the close in  New
York , the biggest decline since August 2011. Third-quarter sales
will be $3.85 billion to $3.95 billion, the company said in a
statement yesterday. Analysts on average were  projecting  revenue
of $3.97 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  EBay Chief Executive Officer  John Donahoe  has been seeking
growth abroad, adding staff in  emerging markets , such as Russia
and  China . In 2012, 27 percent of marketplaces revenue and more
than 50 percent of PayPal’s sales came from international
operations. EBay is predicting 2013 revenue and profit to be at
the lower end of full-year guidance, as e-commerce growth rates
in Europe and Korea slow and currencies weaken against the U.S.
dollar.  “Last year, overall economic growth was down in Europe,
retail sales were down, but e-commerce growth rates stayed
constant,” Donahoe said in an interview. “This year, overall
economic growth is little bit slower than last year, retail
sales are a little bit slower and e-commerce growth rates have
also come down a little bit.”  Economic Headwinds  Second-quarter revenue came in at $3.88 billion, just shy
of analysts’ prediction for $3.89 billion. The company  forecast 
2013 revenue to be $16 billion to $16.5 billion and earnings,
excluding some items, to range from $2.70 a share to $2.75 a
share.  Online commerce growth in  Germany  and the U.K. is slowing,
Donahoe said, which is coupled with Korean e-commerce growth
rates that declined by more than 50 percent compared with last
year. Currencies in those areas, which are predicted to weaken
against the  U.S. dollar , have the potential to weigh on earnings
in the second half of the year, the company said.  The euro is projected to decline 3.6 percent against the
dollar in the fourth quarter, while the pound is estimated to
decrease 2.7 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The South
Korean won is predicted to decline by 2 percent in the same
period.  Dollar Impact  “When the dollar strengthens, it means you lost a little
bit of your revenue to the strength of the dollar,” said
William Smead, chief executive officer of Smead Capital, which
holds 495,525 shares of EBay as part of more than $575 million
under management. “That’s probably how things are going to be
for two, three, four years -- certainly if the  U.S. economy 
keeps coming back. We’re not bothered by it.”  Second-quarter profit before some costs was 63 cents a
share, matching the average analysts’ projection. Net income
fell 8 percent to $640 million. The percentage EBay takes from
transactions declined to 3.79 percent from 3.94 percent a year
ago, tempering profit, as it offered international customers
cash coupons to spur more activity on the site.  Higher taxes may also weigh on net income this year, as
weakness in markets overseas prompt more business in the U.S.,
where the company is subject to a higher rate, the company said.  User Gains  Revenue in EBay’s marketplaces  business , which includes
both auctions and fixed-price sales, climbed 10 percent to $2
billion in the latest quarter. The number of users increased by
14 percent to 120 million.  At PayPal, revenue rose 20 percent to $1.6 billion in the
second quarter. The unit gained 4.7 million registered users,
bringing the total to 132 million. Net payment volume, or the
total value of transactions processed, rose 24 percent to $43
billion.  “New users drive future results and active user growth has
been accelerating,”  Colin Gillis , an analyst at BGC Partners LP
in New York, wrote in a note to clients. “That’s the standout
metric.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  