-- Ecclestone Charged in German Formula One Bribery Probe
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2013-07-17T15:04:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/ecclestone-charged-in-german-formula-one-bribery-probe.html
Bernie Ecclestone  was charged by
German prosecutors over his role in a bribery scheme in the 2005
sale of a Bayerische Landesbank stake in Formula One racing to
CVC Capital Partners Ltd.  The chief executive officer of Formula One was charged with
bribery and inciting another person to commit breach of trust,
Margarete Noetzel, the spokeswoman for the Munich courts, said
in an e-mailed statement today. The indictment was filed in May
and had to be translated before being served to Ecclestone and
his lawyer.  The charges have been a possibility for at least a year
since Gerhard Gribkowsky, the former BayernLB chief risk
officer, was convicted of taking bribes from Ecclestone and
sentenced to 8 1/2 years in prison. Gribkowsky, who managed the
lender’s interest in Formula One, said in court he was paid $44
million to steer the sale of the bank’s 47 percent stake in the
racing circuit to CVC, a U.K.-based buyout firm, and agreed to a
sham contract under whichEcclestone received a kickback.  Sven Thomas and Norbert Scharf, Eccelstone’s lawyers, will
respond to the court and point out that Gribkowsky changed his
testimony several times, they said in joint e-mailed statement.  Mid-August  The court will now determine whether the charges may go to
trial. That decision will take at least until the middle of
September, said Noetzel. Ecclestone was given until mid-August
to respond to the charges, according to the statement.  Ecclestone, who has denied the allegations, told a Munich
court in 2011 he was the victim of a sophisticated shakedown and
bribed Gribkowsky because he feared the banker might tell U.K.
tax authorities about a family trust controlled by his wife at
the time.  CVC spokesman James Olley said the private equity group had
no immediate comment about Ecclestone being indicted. The
company isn’t part of the investigation and has said it didn’t
know about any bribery payments in the deal.  Daimler AG, which operates the Mercedes Formula One racing
team, said the company supports clarification of the allegations
against Ecclestone, company spokeswoman Ute von Vellberg said in
an e-mailed statement.  Next Steps  “Compliance is of central importance for Daimler,” she
said. The company will discuss the case and the next steps with
Formula One stakeholders, other teams and the FIA international
automobile federation, she said.  BayernLB acquired the Formula One stake after  Leo Kirch ’s
media group went bankrupt in 2002. Gribkowsky clashed with
Ecclestone and sued him in  London  over corporate-governance
rules changed to limit the lender’s influence. Ecclestone wanted
to push BayernLB out and saw a chance when CVC showed interest,
prosecutors have said.  The lender’s stake went for 840 million euros ($1.1
billion). CVC sold a $500 million stake in the auto-racing
series to  Waddell & Reed Financial Inc. (WDR)  in early 2012. The sale
valued Formula One at $9.1 billion and boosts Waddell & Reed’s
holding to 20.9 percent, according to a CVC statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 