-- Egypt Divisions Cemented as Violence Worsens
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2013-07-18T09:58:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/egypt-divisions-cemented-as-violence-worsens.html
To Mahmoud Sayed, Mohamed Mursi’s
election as Egypt’s president a year ago was an opportunity he’d
wanted for years: a chance to grow a beard as a sign of his
faith. Islamists, he figured, wouldn’t be persecuted as they had
under former president  Hosni Mubarak .  That changed the day after the military deposed Mursi on
July 3 following mass street demonstrations. Sayed, a 35-year-old driver, was accosted by two men. He was robbed, beaten and,
in a final insult, spat upon and told to pass it on to Mursi.  Sayed’s next stop: the barber’s chair. The beard is gone --
and so are his hopes for a country that reconciles Islamic and
secular Egyptians.  “How did it get to this?” Sayed asked, running a
calloused hand across his clean-shaven face in Cairo’s low-income Waily district. “When Mursi was elected, we were full of
hope. Now, we’re just full of anger and fear.”  The reversal of fortunes that emerged barely two weeks
after Mursi was ousted has underlined  Egypt ’s increasingly
entrenched polarization. Islamists and secularists who stood
shoulder-to-shoulder during the 2011 uprising against Mubarak
now face off in daily protests that have erupted into violence.  On July 15, Mursi’s supporters, calling for his
reinstatement as the country’s first freely elected civilian
president, clashed with security forces. Seven were killed and
261 wounded, according to a Health Ministry statement.  ‘Sheep’ Signs  The language of dispute on both sides has increasingly
become tinged with insult and enmity, as evidenced by the sheaf
of Arabic and English insults written on the outside of a main
presidential palace in Cairo. Scrawled on the cream outer walls
are English expletives about Mursi, as well as a common refrain:
“Leave, you sheep.”  The divide is most pronounced in the targeting of the
Muslim Brotherhood, from which Mursi hailed, and other
Islamists. Just weeks before, they held the reins of power in
Egypt. Now they are on the defensive amid a campaign of
detentions, arrest warrants and asset-freezing. Mursi himself is
being held in an undisclosed location; presidency spokesman
Ahmed El-Meslemani said on July 16 he was in a “safe place and
receives the respect appropriate for a former head of state.”  Deadly Clashes  Clashes between Mursi supporters, who have been camped out
by the tens of thousands in Cairo’s Nasr City district, and the
military and secularists speak to the tensions. In the single
deadliest eruption of violence in months, Republican Guard
forces killed more than 50 Islamists during one protest on July
8. The Brotherhood described it as a massacre and the military
said the fighting was started by the other side.  At the core, however, is the polarization that has been
building up since Mursi’s election last year -- a level of
discord troubling both domestically and internationally. The
European Union’s foreign policy chief,  Catherine Ashton , met
with the various groups, ranging from the Brotherhood to the
government, and stressed the need to overcome the differences.  The discussions focused on “the importance of a very
inclusive process to ensure that this country really belongs to
everyone here,” Ashton said, according to a statement the EU
released on July 17.  Casting a pall over that hope, however, is the vernacular
of unrest in the country following Mursi’s ouster.  New Language  “There are some in the liberal opposition, as well as in
the old regime and the military, who believe in destroying the
Muslim Brotherhood as a political force in the country,” said
 Shadi Hamid , director of research at the Brookings Doha Center.
“Talking about wiping out the Brotherhood, killing them,
destroying them, show trials -- this language of retribution”
wasn’t something he recalled hearing under Mubarak, he said.  The animosity has been building for months, as Mursi’s
critics decried what they saw as self-serving decrees, hasty
decisions from which he was forced to backtrack and his pushing
through of a largely Islamist-drafted constitution that undercut
the rights of minorities and women.  Their anger stems as well from an economy that’s growing as
it slowest pace in two decades. Foreign reserves are more than
50 percent below their December 2010 levels and  unemployment  is
more than 13 percent.  Egypt’s transition to democracy has witnessed the ousting
of the second president in about two years and a faltering
economy. Even within Islamist groups divides have deepened.  War Warning  The Salafi Nour Party, for example, initially sided with
the military in ousting Mursi, only to later change course after
President Adly Mansour issued his constitutional decree and the
clashes by the Republican Guard building left dozens dead. Nour
this week also rejected the presidency’s reconciliation bid.  Sheikh Ahmed El-Tayeb, the head of Al-Azhar, the Sunni
Muslim world’s preeminent religious institution, warned last
week of the possibility of a civil war.  “It’s not a matter of love and hatred, but our differences
should be sorted through political means,” said Hamdy Hassan, a
senior Brotherhood official in the port city of Alexandria.
Echoing El-Tayed, he added:  “We are on our way toward a civil
war.”  It’s that result that the interim government, headed by
Mansour and Prime Minister-designate Hazem El Beblawi, is trying
to avoid. The stated focus of the current administration is
national reconciliation, though the prospects for that are
dimming as the Brotherhood this week refused to participate in
the government formation efforts and called for more protests.  Seek Reinstatement  That the Islamists are intent on bringing Mursi back
despite his track record speaks volumes about their intentions,
said Abdullah Hassan, a 27-year-old tour guide and activist. He
was among the thousands who clashed with Brotherhood members in
some of the heaviest days of fighting after Mursi’s ouster.  “When Mursi was elected, the Islamists starting saying
this was their country, now, as if we didn’t exist or were
heretics,” he said. “The fighting, the blood, the death -- is
that what they mean about the nation’s interests? Well, it’s our
country now. It always was.”  Omar Mansour, a teacher, experienced similar emotions when
he attempted to drive on a recent evening. Under the pale glow
of streetlights lining Cairo’s  6th October  Bridge, Mansour
spotted a throng of Islamists approaching on foot. A frown
crossed his brow.  “Even after we got rid of Mursi, the sheep, they’re still
making us go backward,” Mansour said, as drivers threw their
cars back into reverse, their route ahead blocked by the
Islamists. “Instead of backing up, we should just drive through
them.”  Remarks such as those are the reason why Islamists are
eager to ensure that they aren’t brushed aside again, or robbed
of an elected office which they won.  “It was never about Mursi holding onto power, or the
Muslim Brotherhood being the one to run the country,” said
Sayed, the driver. “The idea is that we’re offering an
alternative. If people didn’t like what Mursi was doing, they
should just vote him out in the next elections.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  