-- Egypt’s Brotherhood Stirs Protest After Rejecting Cabinet
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y ,   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2013-07-18T00:46:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/egypt-seeks-reconciliation-talks-as-clashes-kill-seven.html
Supporters of  Egypt ’s deposed
Islamist President Mohamed Mursi held demonstrations in Cairo
and other cities early today after rejecting the new interim
government and its offer of reconciliation talks.  Mursi’s backers called for the protests after deadly
violence this week laid bare the deepening divisions marring the
transition from his rule. The Muslim Brotherhood’s Freedom and
Justice party, from which Mursi hails, considers the new cabinet
“illegitimate” and built “on the blood of martyrs,” Hamza
Zawba, a spokesman, said by telephone.  The mainly secularist cabinet sworn in July 16 and led by
Prime Minister Hazem El-Beblawi, an economist and former finance
minister, faces the task of restoring order and reviving an
economy caught in its worst slump since the overthrow of
longtime leader  Hosni Mubarak  in 2011. Making the task more
challenging is the opposition it faces from Mursi supporters,
who say he was a victim of a July 3 “coup.”  The protests early today included a sit-in by thousands of
Mursi backers in the Cairo suburb of Nasr City that began after
his ouster. Yesterday, about 300 of his supporters scuffled with
security forces, Hany Girgis, head of Cairo’s Qasr El-Nil police
station, said by telephone. No casualties were reported.  President Adly Mansour’s political adviser, Mostafa Hegazy,
told reporters in Cairo that the presidency will call on
different sides, including the Brotherhood, for national
reconciliation talks next week.  Growing Divide  Officials from the Brotherhood’s party and the
ultraconservative Salafi Nour Party, the only Islamist group to
back the military ouster of Mursi, have said they won’t
participate in the discussions.  Violence and the Islamists’ rejection of reconciliation
talks sent Egypt’s default risk climbing.  The divide between Islamists and secularists is growing
deeper and increasingly violent. Hours before the cabinet was
sworn in, seven people died and hundreds were injured at pro-Mursi rallies. Last week, at least 50 Mursi supporters were
killed in fighting with army units.  Arrests of Brotherhood leaders and other Islamists, and
government steps to freeze funds, have inflamed Mursi’s
supporters.  The human-rights group Amnesty International said that
Mursi supporters arrested by Egyptian authorities have reported
they were beaten, subjected to electric shocks and hit with
rifle butts.  ‘Extreme Polarization’  “At this time of extreme polarization and division, it is
more important than ever that the office of the public
prosecutor demonstrates that it’s truly independent and not
politicized,” Hassiba Hadj Sahraoui, Amnesty’s deputy director,
Middle East and North Africa program, said yesterday on the
London-based group’s website.  The military sought again to reassure Egyptians it wasn’t
seeking a political role after deposing Mursi.  “We have affirmed before that the future of the Egyptian
state will include all sides and exclude no one,” Ahmed
Mohammed Ali, a military spokesman, told the Al Arabiya
satellite-television channel yesterday.  Catherine Ashton, the European Union’s representative for
international affairs and security, met yesterday with El-Beblawi and Vice President Mohamed El Baradei to discuss
political developments in Egypt, the state-run Middle East News
Agency said. She also held talks with Muslim Brotherhood
officials and members of Tamarod, a youth group that supported
the military’s overthrow of Mursi, it said.  ‘Democratic Transition’  During a news briefing in  Washington  yesterday, Jay Carney,
President  Barack Obama ’s press secretary, said that it’s
“essential to Egypt’s successful democratic transition that the
government take actions that demonstrate its fealty to the idea
of reconciliation and inclusion.”  Besides calming the violence, the new government will have
to focus on turning around the economy. Unemployment is at a
record high and foreign reserves are less than half of December
2010 levels. Persian Gulf countries have pledged $12 billion in
aid since Mursi’s ouster.  Egypt’s bid for a $4.8 billion International Monetary Fund
loan remains pending two years after it was started. That’s in
part because the Washington-based lender sought political
consensus and a clear economic plan -- two elements Mursi’s
government could not provide.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Cairo at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  