-- Egypt Bond Yields, Default Risk Rise as Islamists Shun Cabinet
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2013-07-17T12:25:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/egypt-bond-yields-default-risk-rise-as-islamists-shun-cabinet.html
Egypt ’s benchmark bonds fell,
pushing the yield to a week high, after Islamists boycotted the
transitional government and called for renewed protests. The
country’s default risk advanced for a third day.  The yield on the government’s 5.75 percent notes due in
April 2020 increased seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage
point, to 8.54 percent, the highest on a closing basis since
July 10, at 2:25 p.m. in Cairo, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg. Five-year credit default swaps climbed 50 basis
points to 725, according to CMA data.  Interim President Adly Mansour yesterday swore in a team of
34 ministers which didn’t include any Islamists. The Muslim
Brotherhood rejected the new cabinet and vowed to escalate
protests to demand the reinstatement of former President Mohamed Mursi. The army forced Mursi out of office on July 3, triggering
a wave of violent clashes that have left 57 dead and hundreds
injured in the past two weeks. Police clashed with hundreds of
Mursi supporters in Cairo today.  “The lack of Islamists in the Cabinet means a large
proportion of the population is unrepresented and increases the
likelihood of social unrest,”  William Jackson , a London-based
emerging-markets economist at Capital Economics Ltd., said by
phone. “The problems facing Egypt may be larger than any new
Cabinet can address. Elections can provide a government with a
stronger mandate to undertake these reforms.”  Political Tension  Standard & Poor’s yesterday affirmed Egypt’s rating at
CCC+, seven levels below investment grade, with a stable
outlook. That’s on par with Cyprus and  Jamaica , the agency’s
least credit-worthy countries. The benchmark EGX 30 Index of
stocks fell for the first time in four days, declining 0.3
percent as 19 shares fell.  Egypt obtained pledges for $12 billion of aid from  Saudi
Arabia ,  Kuwait  and the  United Arab Emirates  last week, a move
that Moody’s Investors Service deemed “credit positive.”  According to a transitional timeline revealed last week,
Egypt will hold parliamentary elections in seven months, during
which time the constitution, which is currently suspended, will
be amended and national reconciliation talks will take place.  “We expect the high level of political tension in Egypt to
persist,” S&P said. Uncertainty over the Brotherhood’s
involvement in the political process may call the legitimacy of
upcoming elections “into question by a significant proportion
of the electorate,” the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  