-- El-Erian Says Bernanke ‘Relatively Dovish’ in Outlook
-- B y   J e f f   M a r s h a l l
-- 2013-07-17T14:32:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/el-erian-says-bernanke-relatively-dovish-in-economic-outlook.html
Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive
officer of Pacific Investment Management Co., said Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  was “relatively dovish” in
his outlook on the  U.S. economy  and monetary policy.  Bernanke said in prepared comments before testimony to
Congress that the central bank’s asset purchases “are by no
means on a preset course” and could be reduced more quickly or
expanded as economic conditions warrant.  Markets “took the tapering too far,” El-Erian, also co-chief investment officer with Pimco founder  Bill Gross , said in
an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” with
 Betty Liu .  Yields on 10-year U.S. notes may drop to 2.2 percent this
year from the current 2.47 percent, El-Erian said.  The Fed chairman’s remarks highlight the  Federal Open
Market Committee ’s desire to assure that the economy and labor
markets have sufficient momentum before reducing its $85 billion
in monthly bond purchases. Treasury yields have jumped since
June 19, when Bernanke outlined a possible timetable for
tapering purchases.  “This testimony is the relatively dovish Bernanke,” El-Erian said. “He’s giving these different signals trying to
strike this delicate balance, but it’s really tough.”  Balance Sheet  The 10-year yield rose as high as 2.75 percent this month
from 1.93 percent on May 21, the day before Bernanke said the
FOMC may trim its bond buying in its “next few meetings” if
officials see signs of sustained improvement in the labor
market.  Bernanke today said the Fed’s balance sheet would remain
elevated after purchases of mortgage bonds and Treasuries end.  Fed officials estimate the 6.5 percent  unemployment 
threshold could be reached by the end of next year. That outlook
is based on estimated growth of 3 percent to 3.5 percent for the
economy in 2014, according to the committee’s June central
tendency estimates, which are higher than the 2.9 percent
estimate of private forecasters in a Bloomberg survey.  “The underlying economy is still quite fragile,” El-Erian
said. “If you put the fundamentals with the technicals, they
would call for lower yields from here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Marshall in  New York  at 
 jmarshall75@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  