-- Electronic Arts Falls After NCAA Says It Won’t Renew Accord
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s   a n d   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-07-17T22:07:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/electronic-arts-falls-after-ncaa-says-it-won-t-renew-game-accord.html
Electronic Arts Inc. (EA)  fell 1.6
percent after the  National Collegiate Athletic Association  said
it won’t renew a contract with the video-game manufacturer
because of legal action over athletes’ likenesses.  The sports organization cited “the current business
climate and costs of litigation” for the decision not to renew
its contract with Electronic Arts, the second-largest U.S. game
publisher, after their existing accord expires in June 2014,
according to a  statement  today.  The NCAA and Electronic Arts are defendants in a federal
lawsuit alleging they didn’t compensate athletes for using their
likenesses in football and basketball games the company
produces. Electronic Arts began selling the latest version of
its NCAA Football game last week. It’s one of 11 major releases
this year from the company, including FIFA soccer, Madden
football and titles with the  National Hockey League  and  National
Basketball Association .  Electronic Arts, based in Redwood City,  California ,
declined to $23.81 at the close in  New York . The stock has
gained 64 percent this year.  The company said it’s working with Collegiate Licensing
Co., a trademark licensing agent, to include participating
institutions’ teams and leagues.  “EA Sports will continue to develop and publish college
football games, but we will no longer include the NCAA names and
marks,” the company said in a statement.  Member colleges and universities will have to decide on
their own whether to license trademarks and other intellectual
property to Electronic Arts, the NCAA said.  At Odds  Former college players and the NCAA are at odds over
association regulations that ban student athletes from receiving
any form of compensation other than education for their
participation in college sports, even if their likenesses are
used after they graduate.  “We believe this is occurring because the NCAA knows that
the use of the players’ likenesses is a violation of their
publicity rights and that a court will rule that these players
must be compensated,” said  Steve Berman , lead counsel for the
plaintiffs.  Ed O’Bannon, one of the lead plaintiffs in the lawsuit and
the college basketball player of the year in 1995, didn’t return
a message left at his office.  The case is Keller v. Electronic Arts Inc., 09-cv-01967,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net ;
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  