-- TeliaSonera Profit Falls Less Than Estimated on Asia
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-07-17T07:05:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/teliasonera-profit-falls-as-competition-weighs-on-prices.html
TeliaSonera AB (TLSN) ,  Sweden ’s biggest
phone company, reported second-quarter profit that fell less
than analysts estimated as restructuring efforts reduced costs
and its Eurasian business grew.  Net income fell to 4.03 billion kronor ($610 million) from
4.85 billion kronor a year earlier, the Stockholm-based company
said today. Analysts predicted 3.82 billion kronor, the average
of estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales dropped 3.9 percent to
25.3 billion kronor, in line with the average projection.  TeliaSonera is adding users in its Eurasian unit, with
 operations  in  Turkey ,  Russia  and several former Soviet Union
countries, while battling falling sales in its home market as
competition and lower fees hurt prices. The company, which made
more than 60 percent of its  revenue  in the Nordic region last
year, is also cutting jobs and focusing more on data revenue to
bolster profitability.  “The report was actually better than expected, especially
with TeliaSonera’s Eurasian business and mobility services
businesses topping our estimates,” said  Mikko Ervasti , an
analyst at Evli Bank Oyj in Helsinki. “The Eurasian business
really is the growth engine for the company and helps diversify
the carrier during slower economic times in western  Europe  and
the cost-cutting efforts in its mobile unit helped improve its
profitability.”  TeliaSonera  rose  rose 1.8 percent to 45.96 kronor at 9:03
a.m. in  Stockholm . The stock had advanced 2.5 percent this year
through yesterday.  Restructuring Costs  The carrier had 802 million kronor in non-recurring
expenses, mostly related to restructuring. TeliaSonera said on
Oct. 17 that it plans to cut 2,000 jobs, or 7 percent of its
workforce, to lower costs by 2 billion kronor in two years.  The second-quarter adjusted profit before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization as a percentage of sales was 35.3
percent. TeliaSonera reiterated that it expects that margin will
improve “slightly” in 2013 compared with 2012. Sales will be
“flat” excluding currency swings and acquisitions, the company
repeated.  Sales from mobile services slipped 4.5 percent because of
lower rates for connecting calls from rivals’ networks, a fee
that is regulated. Cost cuts helped lift the mobile unit’s
Ebitda margin to 31.5 percent from 29.5 percent. Revenue from
Eurasia rose 5.4 percent and the Ebitda margin for that region
widened to 51.7 percent from 50.3 percent a year earlier.  “We maintain focus on securing our long-term profitability
by implementing efficiency measures and investing for the
future,” acting Chief Executive Officer Per-Arne Blomquist said
in the statement. Johan Dennelind, a former  Vodacom Group Ltd. (VOD) 
executive, is set to start as CEO on Sept. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  