-- Temasek Racing Exxon to Build Biggest LNG Terminal Stash
-- B y   C h o u   H u i   H o n g   a n d   J a s m i n e   N g
-- 2013-07-18T04:23:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/temasek-racing-exxon-to-build-biggest-lng-stash-southeast-asia.html
A Temasek Holdings Pte unit is up
against  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  in a contest
to fill storage tanks that will hold three times as much 
liquefied natural gas as  Singapore  will consume this year.  The city-state’s Energy Market Authority is seeking
 feedback  through the end of July for stocking an LNG terminal
with capacity of as much as 9 million metric tons. The threefold
expansion will allow Singapore to offer last-minute deliveries,
or spot cargoes, to buyers in Asia seeking an alternative to
long-term contracts linked to oil.  “If Singapore were to successfully conduct trades out of
the terminal, it could lead to more price transparency that will
aid the development of the spot market in Asia,” said Zhixin
Chong, a gas and power analyst for Wood Mackenzie in Singapore.
“The spare capacity should allow for both of the government’s
objectives to be met: security of supply and the ability for a
trading hub to emerge.”  Singapore, Asia’s oil-trading center, is challenging
Shanghai and Bangkok to play matchmaker for buyers and sellers
of LNG, supercooled gas shipped by tankers rather than
pipelines. Shell, Exxon and Pavilion Energy, set up in April by
Singapore’s state-owned investment company, Temasek, are among
the contenders as the city selects additional suppliers for the
LNG terminal now stocked exclusively by Berkshire, England-based
 BG Group Plc. (BG/)   Jurong Island  The participants in Singapore’s competitive licensing
framework are vying to provide 1 million additional tons of LNG
for the domestic market and as much as 5 million tons for spot
cargoes. The expanded facility will hold Asia’s largest reserve
of gas that isn’t committed to a specific buyer or contract,
analysts said.  The fuel will be stored in four tanks located on Jurong
Island southwest of Singapore’s city center. The first three are
each big enough to store three stacked up A380 jumbo jets, the
world’s largest commercial passenger planes. The fourth tank,
forecast to cost as much as S$500 million, could hold four
A380s.  Singapore’s new LNG storage center is designed to limit
price volatility in Asia, which bought 71 percent of the world’s
traded volume of about 236 million tons in 2012, according to
The International Group of Liquefied Natural Gas Importers.  LNG spot cargoes last year in northeast Asia declined from
$18.40 per million British thermal units on May 28 to $12.90 per
million Btu Aug. 13, data from Energy Intelligence Group show.
From Oct. 8, 2012 to Feb. 4 this year, LNG prices jumped from
$12.80 per million Btu to a record $19.40 as  Japan  put nuclear
reactors on hold, boosting gas demand.  The latest spot price for LNG cargoes for Northeast Asia
was $16.10 per million Btu, Energy Intelligence said on the
website of its World Gas Intelligence publication July 17.  First LNG Cargo  Singapore imported its first LNG cargo in March to
inaugurate its 3 million ton-a-year receiving facility on Jurong
Island. Expansion of the terminal to 6 million tons a year is
set to be complete in early 2014, when the facility’s third tank
is finished, prompting the EMA to begin a second consultation on
June 3 about future supplies of LNG.  “The objective is to put in place a competitive process
for Singapore gas buyers to access secure and competitively
priced gas,” an EMA spokeswoman said in an e-mailed statement
to Bloomberg. The regulator will request proposals after the
second consultation process closes July 31.  The proposal provides the EMA with the flexibility to award
more import licenses as Singapore’s gas market grows while
facilitating competition and allowing the regulator to adapt to
the prevailing market conditions, Chong said.  BG won the contract in 2008 to supply 3 million tons of LNG
annually over the 10 years starting in 2013. It sold 2.7 million
tons as of August, the company said on its  website .  Tough Choice  Singapore isn’t capping the number of LNG suppliers and may
be able to accommodate as many as four importers, according to
an EMA paper. Choosing the next providers may be “tricky,”
said Tony Regan, a Singapore-based energy consultant at Tri-Zen
International Inc., with Shell and  OAO Lukoil (LKOH)  as clients.  “We’ve got probably 20 traders here,” Regan said. “If
you just chose one of them, that might put off many of the
others. You’ve got a very long list of traders sitting here who
might like the opportunity to put cargoes in.”  Shell, based in the Hague, and Exxon, based in Irving,
 Texas , may prefer to import their own natural gas instead of
buying through an aggregator in Singapore, Regan said. The
companies, ranking among the world’s biggest LNG producers, have
their largest refineries with integrated petrochemicals
complexes near Singapore’s LNG terminal. They now get their gas
from the city-state’s domestic network supplied by four pipeline
importers and BG.  Competitive Framework  Exxon is participating in the EMA’s consultation and
supports a competitive framework for Singapore’s LNG market, a
company spokeswoman said in an e-mailed statement. Shell is
looking at global LNG opportunities, including Singapore, said
Serene Loo, a Singapore-based Shell spokeswoman. She declined
further comment on the matter.  Temasek set up Pavilion Energy with S$1 billion in capital
for LNG investments, the company said in an April 5 statement.
Pavilion started a wholly owned gas subsidiary, Pavilion Gas,
with initial capital of S$1.25 million to manage downstream gas
operations. Temasek has a stake in  Cheniere Energy Inc. (LNG) ,
operator of the Sabine Pass LNG terminal in Louisiana, a U.S.
project with full government approval for gas exports.  Pavilion Energy is studying the EMA’s consultation paper
and will submit its feedback to the regulator this month, a
company spokesman said in an e-mail.  Pipeline Moratorium  Companies that deliver gas to Singapore via pipeline can
also compete for the franchise to provide the next 1 million
tons through 2018. The city bought 8.1 million tons of oil
equivalent of piped natural gas in 2011, according to the  EMA .  Gas Supply Pte Ltd., Sembcorp Gas Pte Ltd., Senoko Energy
Ltd. and Keppel Gas Ltd. are the Asian city state’s four
existing piped-gas importers, according to the EMA’s  website .  The regulator imposed a moratorium on pipeline natural gas
imports until 2018, meaning no new gas supply can be piped into
the country until BG sells out its 3 million ton allocation. The
city may allow new piped-gas supply if it comes from reliable
sources at a competitive price, the EMA said.  Spot Allocations  The EMA will clarify how LNG terminal capacity could be
allocated to spot imports. The regulator will model its system
after Europe and bundle spare capacity into delivery slots for
use by spot LNG importers.  Singapore LNG Corp., formed by the EMA in 2009 to own and
operate the Jurong Island terminal, will provide an attractive
option if it allocates space for spot imports, Regan said.  “It will be the first terminal in Asia offering the
import, storage and reload options to traders,” Regan said.
“Southeast Asia becomes really quite significant, as it’s a big
new market with Singapore sitting right in the middle.”  Singapore is the most likely hub for trading natural gas,
the International Energy Agency said in a Feb. 26 report. Its
new LNG terminal will serve a wide array of tankers and boost
import capacity “far beyond” domestic needs, the IEA said.  The notion of a trading hub in Asia is yet to be proven,
according to Wood Mackenzie. Singapore has limited domestic
demand and lacks the pipelines and infrastructure that support
the U.S. depot at Henry Hub, Louisiana, Chong said.  “It may be premature to consider that a credible trading
hub with ample liquidity will develop in the region over the
next ten years,” he said.  Thailand  has proposed doubling the
capacity of its 5 million ton a year  Map Ta Phut  LNG terminal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chou Hui Hong in Singapore at 
 chong43@bloomberg.net ;
Jasmine Ng in Singapore at 
 jng281@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  