-- Emerging Stocks Rise on Bernanke Comments as Rand, Lira Rebound
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h o ,   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-07-17T21:40:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/emerging-stocks-post-longest-rally-in-six-months-before-bernanke.html
Emerging-market stocks rose for a
seventh day, led by gains in Mexico,  Russia  and  Turkey , after
comments by Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke alleviated
concern that the central bank will curtail its stimulus program.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index advanced 0.7 percent to
959.37, in the longest run of gains in six months. Bernanke said
asset purchases weren’t on a “preset course” and could be
reduced more quickly or expanded as economic conditions warrant.
South Africa’s rand and Turkey’s lira reversed earlier losses.
 India  failed to sell treasury bills at a weekly auction after
the central bank tightened policy for the first time since 2011.  “Markets all over the world are reacting positively to
Bernanke’s words today because he was quite consistent with what
the Fed has said lately, that changes to the stimulus policy
will be gradual,”  Alvaro Bandeira , a partner at Orama Asset
Management, said by phone from Rio de Janeiro. “That’s very
good for emerging countries, which will be able to smoothly
adjust their economies to the new reality using their own
internal tools.”  OAO Gazprom, Russia’s natural gas export monopoly, rose the
most since October 2011 in a fifth day of advances. Consumer-health products manufacturer Hypermarcas SA gained the most
since May in Sao Paulo as the Ibovespa climbed 1.1 percent.
 Anhui Conch Cement Co. (914) ,  China ’s largest cement maker, jumped to
a five-week high in Hong Kong after the nation’s foreign direct
investment surged 20 percent in June. OTP Bank Nyrt.,  Hungary ’s
biggest lender, slumped the most since March.  Currencies Gain  The lira gained for a third day, adding 0.5 percent against
the dollar. The rand advanced 0.3 percent.  Mexico ’s peso and the
Brazilian real climbed the most among 24 emerging-market
currencies.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 322 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  “If the outlook for employment were to become relatively
less favorable, if inflation did not appear to be moving back
toward 2 percent, or if financial conditions -- which have
tightened recently -- were judged to be insufficiently
accommodative to allow us to attain our mandated objectives, the
current pace of purchases could be maintained for longer,”
Bernanke said today in prepared testimony.  Gauges of healthcare, energy and material stocks in the
MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index rose at least 0.9 percent, leading
gains among the 10 industry groups.  Russia Rally  Russia’s Micex Index climbed 1.5 percent, its fifth day of
advances in the longest winning streak since a six-day rally
ended Dec. 12. Gazprom added 5.2 percent.  Mexico’s IPC Index gained 1.5 percent as Grupo Financiero
Banorte SAB, the nation’s third-largest bank, rallied 11 percent
after selling about $2.5 billion of shares in the country’s
biggest equity sale of the year.  South Africa’s FTSE/JSE Africa All Shares Index advanced
1.4 percent. Kumba Iron Ore Ltd. gained 4.1 percent and BHP
Billiton Ltd., the world’s biggest mining company, climbed 3
percent in Johannesburg, after saying fourth-quarter iron ore
production increased 17 percent as the company expands
operations in  Australia .  Hungary’s BUX Index retreated 1.5 percent, its first drop
in four days, as OTP Bank lost 3.6 percent. Prime Minister
Viktor Orban’s cabinet is looking at the possibility of
retroactively modifying the conditions of foreign-currency loans
later this year, Deputy Prime Minister Tibor Navracsics said in
a HirTV interview late yesterday.  Poland’s WIG 20 Index added 0.3 percent and the Czech
Republic’s PX Index fell 0.2 percent on a third day of drops.  China, India  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has retreated 9.1 percent
this year and  trades  at about 10 times its 12-month projected
earnings. The MSCI World Index of developed nations has gained
12 percent in 2013 and trades at 13.8 times.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies
listed in Hong Kong advanced 0.7 percent as Anhui Conch surged
6.1 percent. Foreign direct investment in China rose to a record
$14.39 billion last month, according to the Ministry of
Commerce. The 20 percent growth compared with the estimate of a
0.7 percent gain in a Bloomberg survey.  China will keep economic growth, employment and inflation
within limits and avoid “wide fluctuations,” Chinese Premier
Li Keqiang told a forum of advisers and executives yesterday,
according to a summary published on a state website.  The Reserve Bank of India rejected bids worth 293 billion
rupees ($4.9 billion) received for a combined 120 billion rupees
of 91- and 182-day notes offered, it said in an e-mailed
statement. The failure of the bill sale follows an offering of
bonds yesterday by state governments, where the borrowers met
only 26 percent of an 86 billion rupee target.  Apple Suppliers  The S&P BSE  Sensex (SENSEX)  Index of Indian stocks advanced 0.5
percent, led by a 9.9 percent gain by Hindustan Unilever Ltd. to
a record. South Korea’s  Kospi (KOSPI)  index advanced 1.1 percent, while
the Jakarta Composite Index added 0.8 percent and  Thailand ’s SET
index climbed 0.5 percent.  Apple Inc. suppliers including  Pegatron Corp. (4938)  declined as
The Commercial Times reported that Apple may delay the iPhone 5S
to the end of this year from September or October. Pegatron
Corp. slumped 7 percent in Taipei, the most since November 2011,
while TPK Holding Co. sank 4.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharon Cho in Seoul at 
 ccho28@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  