-- Eminent Domain Plan Decried by DoubleLine Sees New Life
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-07-17T18:05:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/eminent-domain-plan-decried-by-doubleline-sees-new-life.html
Steven Gluckstern, who’s spent more
than a year pushing local governments to seize mortgages from
bond trusts to cut balances and help homeowners, is renewing
attempts with backing from cities in  California  and Nevada.  Gluckstern’s  Mortgage Resolution Partners LLC  recently sent
letters to securities trustees and loan servicers asking them to
verify their roles in specific deals and provide information
about individual mortgages that could be purchased, he said. The
firm must try to negotiate to buy the loans before
municipalities can use powers known as eminent domain to force
the sales, he said. They would then lower the principal owed.  “By the end of the summer, we’ll be well into the process
of cities acquiring loans on behalf of their citizens,”
Gluckstern said this week in a telephone interview.  The moves signal a revived battle over the initiative,
which has drawn opposition from bondholders such as Pacific
Investment Management Co. and DoubleLine Capital LP and at least
18 trade groups representing the finance industry,  homebuilders 
and real-estate firms. After considering the idea last year,
municipalities including San Bernardino County, California and
 Chicago  shelved it even as the housing recovery fails to help
many homeowners escape oversized debt burdens.  Gluckstern, a former insurance executive, ex-New York
Islanders co-owner and member of the national finance committee
for President  Barack Obama ’s 2008 election, has pressed on,
after gathering supporters from California Lieutenant Governor
Gavin Newsom to actor John Cusack.  With about 10 million homeowners owing in excess of what
their property is worth more than five years after the  housing
bubble  imploded, the program is needed to provide relief and
reduce foreclosures, Gluckstern said.  Market Fallout  Opponents, including bondholders, say it would cause unfair
losses to investors including pension funds, push lenders to
withdraw from markets and expose cities to legal risks.  Bondholders view the appeal to underwater homeowners as
akin to “a snake-oil salesman with a process,” according to
Vincent Fiorillo, a DoubleLine money manager who said he was
speaking as the president of the Association of Mortgage
Investors’ board.  “It’s not Wall Street, it’s Mr. and Mrs. America’s money
they’re robbing,” he said, referring to investors in mortgage
bonds through funds and pensions. “So many cities have said no
to this; there has to be a rationale as to why the other cities
have said ‘no’ and they should really think about that.”  Investor Response  Some bond investors, who often need to join together to
direct debt trustees to take action on their behalf, have hired
law firm Ropes & Gray LLP to coordinate a potential response,
according to three people with knowledge of the matter who asked
not to be identified because it’s private.  MRP has struck about a “half dozen” advisory agreements
with local governments, including North Las Vegas and El Monte
in California. The city of Richmond, also in California, is
furthest along, Gluckstern said.  “It’ll go one step at a time and we’ll follow the advice
we get from MRP in terms of when and what will be the next
steps,” Bill Lindsay, city manager for Richmond, said in a
telephone interview. City council members have “met and
listened with those who are in opposition” and “they haven’t
wavered in wanting to go ahead with the program,” he said.  With almost half of homeowners underwater in the city,
officials have an obligation to try use the firm’s program to
“stop this economic free-fall,” Richmond Mayor Gayle McLaughlin said in an e-mail.  “The banks and financial institutions are not helping,”
she said. “Their greed caused the problem and they have no
solution for cities like Richmond.”  Nevada Constitution  North Las Vegas’s council is planning to meet again on Aug.
21 to review a plan it authorized the firm to prepare last
month, said Juliet Casey, a spokeswoman for the city manager’s
office.  Wade Wagner, a dentist who was the sole member of the
council to vote against working with MRP, said he doesn’t like
the unprecedented use of eminent domain because it creates a
“slippery slope” exposing other assets to government seizure.
Historically, it’s used to take real estate for things like
creating highways for the public good, he said.  “Also, you’re taking a loan from one company that makes
money and giving to another company that makes money,” Wagner
said.  “Transferring it from one private company to another
private company just doesn’t make any sense to me.”  Negotiation Preferred  After the initial step, a  Nevada  homeowner sued in June to
stop the plan going forward, saying it violates the state
constitution. Casey declined to comment on the lawsuit or
criticism of the proposal.  Gluckstern said MRP would prefer to negotiate with
bondholders rather than rely on eminent domain, which is
typically used to seize real estate for the public good and
requires court review.  “We are really the principal reduction guys,” Gluckstern
said. “If you can get it to happen without having to use a
controversial sovereign power, that’s great.”  Gluckstern says that the program could spur lending by
stabilizing  housing markets  and help bondholders by paying fair
value for the loans. He wouldn’t identify the firms that
received letters.  Servicers, such as  Ocwen Financial Corp. (OCN) ,  Nationstar
Holdings Inc. (NSM) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,
are responsible for dealing with homeowner payments and bad
loans. Trustees, which include  Bank of New York Mellon Corp.  and
Deutsche Bank AG, administer bond payments and oversee legal
actions. Spokesmen at the companies either declined to comment
on the letters or didn’t return messages.  Wells Support  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the nation’s largest servicer and a
trustee, supports the positions offered by trade organizations,
such as Sifma and the Mortgage Bankers Association, Vickee Adams, a spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  MRP’s plan focuses on borrowers whose debt exceeds their
homes’ values and who have made regular payments on mortgages
packaged into bonds without government backing. The firm has
said that delinquent homeowners, who are often aided by federal
and private programs, could also be targeted.  A municipality would use its eminent domain powers to force
the sale of a loan to a private investment fund, at prices based
on financial models or comparable trades. The mortgages would be
reduced and refinanced, potentially into new debt insured by the
Federal Housing Administration.  Development Opportunity  In El Monte, the next step is to authorize MRP to make
offers to bond trustees, “which hopefully will happen soon,”
Mayor Andre Quintero said. “I see this as an economic
development opportunity for this community.”  The profits of the private investors and MRP, which would
administer the program for a fee, will be taken from
bondholders, opponents have said. It’s also proving less
necessary amid the real estate recovery, according to Chris Killian, head of the securitization group for the Securities
Industry and Financial Markets Association.  Home prices climbed 12.1 percent in April from a year
earlier, the most in more than seven years amid short supply,
record-low mortgage rates and an improving job market, according
to an S&P-Case-Shiller index of 20 major cities.  About 1.7 million homeowners regained positive home equity
in 2012 as housing started to recover after a five-year slump,
according to CoreLogic Inc. Still, with home prices 26 percent
below the 2006 peak, about 9.7 million, or one in five
residential properties with a mortgage, were still underwater on
March 31, including more than 45 percent in Nevada.  Minimal Recovery  “Despite the fact that there has been some modest recovery
in the housing market in some select markets, in the areas we’re
focused, that recovery has been minimal and had almost no
effects,” Gluckstern said.  Federal lawmakers and regulators have been watching his
firm’s efforts.  Texas Republican Jeb Hensarling on July 11 proposed
legislation in the House of Representatives that would bar
 Fannie Mae (FNMA) , Freddie Mac and the Federal Housing Administration
from backing mortgages in localities that use eminent domain to
seize mortgages.  The language is part of a broad overhaul of housing finance
winding down government support of the mortgage market that
Hensarling and other House Republicans have drafted.  Last month, House Republican lawmakers from California,
including Jon Campbell, Gary G. Miller, and Ed Royce, wrote a
letter to Housing and Urban Development Secretary Shaun Donovan
asking him to clarify the FHA’s policy on mortgage seizures.  ‘Highly Improbable’  The  Federal Housing Finance Agency  sought comments almost a
year ago on its view that “action may be necessary on its
part” to protect the investments of the firms it regulates,
taxpayer-supported Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the
government-chartered Federal Home Loan Banks.  Charles Coulter, deputy assistant secretary for single
family housing, told a Congressional panel in May that Donovan
had “expressed a very high degree of concern” about eminent
domain seizures of  mortgages .  “It would be highly improbable, I believe, for FHA to put
itself in a position where we would be the only insurer on those
types of refinance transactions,” Coulter told the House
Financial Services Committee.  Addie Whisenant, a spokeswoman for HUD, said yesterday in
an e-mail that the agency had no further comment at this time.
Denise Dunckel, a spokeswoman for the FHFA, said in an e-mailed
statement that it “has previously noted concerns with the
proposed use of eminent domain to restructure mortgages and is
continuing to monitor county officials’ deliberations.”  Sifma, Wall Street’s largest lobbying group, said cities
that adopt these measures may see lending dry up and investors
should defend their rights.  “If people are essentially trying to steal things from
them, they should try to stop it,” said Killian.  With about 1,000 homeowners underwater in El Monte alone,
Mayor Quintero sees things differently.  “It’s shocking to hear the threats coming from the same
industry that took advantage of communities like mine,” he
said. “If they’re not going to be part of the solution, they’re
going to be part of the problem.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net . 