-- Tesla Motors Sues Machinery Maker Atlas Over Agreement
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-07-17T19:26:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/tesla-sues-machinery-maker-atlas-technologies-over-agreement.html
Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , the electric-car
maker run by billionaire Elon Musk, sued machinery maker Atlas
Technologies Inc. over whether a dispute about an agreement must
be heard by an arbitrator.  Officials of  Palo Alto , California-based Tesla, whose
shares rose as much as 8.7 percent today after an analyst more
than doubled her price target for the carmaker, contend Atlas
executives are refusing to honor an agreement to “arbitrate a
contractual dispute,” according to a court filing in  Delaware .  Tesla officials asked a Delaware Chancery Court judge to
bar Fenton, Michigan-based Atlas from “asserting that an
agreement to arbitrate in Delaware was not made,” according to
the July 16 filing. Atlas, a unit of Productivity Technologies
Corp.,  makes  equipment used in the car-production process,
according to the company’s web site.  Shanna Hendriks, a Tesla spokeswoman, declined to comment
today in an e-mail message. Jesse Levine, Atlas’s chief
executive officer, didn’t immediately return a call for comment
on the lawsuit today.  Tesla’s suit seeking to enforce the arbitration agreement
was filed under seal in Wilmington, Delaware. Other filings in
the case outlined the general nature of the suit.  The carmaker named for inventor  Nikola Tesla  has had the
biggest share price gain this year among global automakers, with
the company’s market value more than tripling this year through
yesterday. Tesla has set a goal of delivering at least 21,000 of
its electric Model S luxury sedans this year, priced from
$69,900.  Quarterly Profit  Tesla’s shares have jumped after the carmaker reported its
first quarterly profit and sales of its electric cars tripled
this year. The company has increased production at its Fremont,
California plant.  The Fremont facility is highly self-contained compared with
most large auto plants. It stamps its own aluminum body panels
and chassis parts, molds plastic components and dashboards and
even die-casts individual metal components.  Atlas specializes in making “turnkey stamping and
fabricating systems, heavy plate and bar-steel processing
equipment, robotic integration and quick die-change equipment,”
according to its website.  Tesla is asking a judge to name an arbitrator to hear the
contract dispute and to order Atlas to submit to the process.  The case is Tesla Motors Inc. v. Atlas Technologies Inc.,
CA 8733, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 