-- EU Plans Card Fee Caps to Build on MasterCard, Visa Probe
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-07-17T11:38:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/eu-plans-card-fee-caps-to-build-on-mastercard-visa-probe.html
Banks and payment card providers
would face caps on the transaction fees they can demand from
retailers under European Union plans to rein in charges that
have been attacked by regulators as anticompetitive.  The European Commission, the 28-nation EU’s executive arm,
will propose that interchange fees paid by retailers on card
transactions should be capped at 0.2 percent for debit card
payments and 0.3 percent for credit cards, according to draft
plans obtained by  Bloomberg News . The caps would initially apply
to cross-border transactions, and then be expanded to also cover
domestic payments after two years.  Retailers have long opposed the extra costs associated with
accepting credit and debit cards. Unlike with checks, banks
charge fees, known as interchange, to process card payments. The
amounts are set by  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  and  Visa Inc. (V) , which own the
payment networks and pass the money to the  banks .  The fees “restrict competition as they inflate the cost of
card acceptance by merchants without leading to benefits for
consumers,” according to the document. They result in “higher
final prices for goods and services.”  The commission proposal, by seeking to use legislation to
limit such fees, marks an expansion in the EU’s assault against
the practice. The agency has said that it will publish the plans
on July 24. They would require approval by governments and the
European Parliament before they take effect.  Visa Europe  Visa Europe, MasterCard and Chantal Hughes, a spokeswoman
for  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, declined
to comment on the EU plan. Visa Europe Ltd., operator of the
EU’s largest payment-card network, proposed a settlement of a
similar case that is being reviewed by the European Commission.  EU antitrust regulators have targeted credit- and debit-card fees for a decade, warning that the way the charges are
collectively agreed on is anti-competitive. Authorities this
year started a probe into Purchase, New York-based MasterCard’s
charges on foreign card payments such as when tourists go
shopping in the bloc. The company is appealing the outcome of a
separate probe into rates on cross-border credit-card payments
at the EU’s highest court.  In addition to driving up the costs of goods and services,
the EU’s complaints against the fees include that they make it
more difficult for other payment card offerings to enter the
market, and that they act as a brake on innovation in areas such
as mobile payments, according to the document.  Proposed Levels  The 0.2 percent and 0.3 percent caps are based on levels
proposed by Visa and MasterCard during antitrust proceedings and
“accepted by the competition authorities as not requiring
further action,” according to the document. “They appear as
reasonable benchmarks that are practical for the card schemes
and payment service providers and also provide legal
certainty.”  The rule would cover interchange fees on “all card
transactions that are widely used by consumers and therefore
difficult to refuse by retailers,” according to the document.  As well as the caps, the EU plans include a relaxation of
existing rules that require retailers to accept all cards issued
by a provider such as MasterCard or Visa, and rights for
retailers to steer customers toward “more efficient payments
instruments,” according to the plan. Card providers will also
have to provide more fee information, and allow retailers to
disclose such data to their customers.  Antitrust Probes  Antitrust probes opened by EU and national authorities
“may not lead to sufficiently comprehensive and timely results
to unlock the market integration and innovation that are
necessary,” according to the document. Despite the
investigations, “card schemes operating in the EU currently do
not seem willing pro-actively to adjust their practices.”  The EU last week concluded a monthlong market test in which
it invited industry comments concessions offered by Visa  Europe 
to end an antitrust investigation. The commission considers such
market test-reactions before making a final decision on whether
to make a company’s proposals binding.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at   jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Bodoni in Brussels at   sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  