-- European Stocks Advance on Bernanke Testimony
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-07-17T15:55:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/european-index-futures-climb-on-novartis-asml-forecasts.html
European stocks  rose, rebounding
from their biggest drop in more than a week, as Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said that the pace of the recovery will
determine when the central bank reduces its asset purchases.  BHP Billiton  Ltd. rose 2 percent after saying quarterly
iron-ore output jumped as its operations in  Australia  expanded.
 Thomas Cook Group Plc (TCG)  added 2.7 percent after UBS AG recommended
that investors buy the shares. Unilever lost 1.6 percent in
London as Credit Suisse AG downgraded its rating on the stock.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index gained 0.6 percent to 297.04 at
the close in London, after earlier falling as much as 0.6
percent. The gauge slipped from its highest level in almost six
weeks yesterday. It has still  rallied 6.2 percent  this year.  “The market is looking at the Fed this week and
expectations are for tapering to start in September,” said
James Butterfill, who helps manage about $44 billion as head of
global equity strategy at Coutts & Co. in London. “The key
question is if Bernanke does taper, how will he do it?”  The number of shares changing hands in Stoxx 600-listed
companies was 17 percent lower than the average of the past 30
days, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  begins his two-day
semi-annual monetary-policy report to Congress today. He said
that the Fed will extend the time period for asset purchases if
the outlook for employment worsens, according to prepared
testimony. The central bank will reduce its bond buying if the
economy improves faster than expected, he added.  Housing Starts  U.S. housing starts  unexpectedly dropped 9.9 percent in
June to 836,000 from a revised 928,000 rate in May, a report
from the Commerce Department showed. The median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg had called for the measure to
climb to 960,000. A separate release showed that  building
permits  also unexpectedly fell last month.  In the U.K., all nine members of the  Bank of England ’s
Monetary Policy Committee voted against expanding the bond-buying program, according to the  minutes  of the July 3-4 meeting
published today. MPC members  Paul Fisher  and  David Miles  dropped
their call to expand asset purchases by 25 billion pounds ($38
billion) at Governor  Mark Carney ’s first meeting.  The central bank will publish a review next month of how to
steer investors’ expectations.  National benchmark indexes advanced in 15 of the 18
western-European markets.  Germany ’s DAX gained 0.7 percent,
while  France ’s CAC 40 rose 0.6 percent. The U.K.’s FTSE 100
added 0.2 percent.  BHP Billiton  BHP Billiton, the world’s  biggest mining company , gained 2
percent to 1,868 pence after setting a 13th annual output
record. Iron-ore production rose to 47.7 million metric tons in
the three months ended June 30, from 40.9 million tons a year
earlier, Melbourne-based BHP said in a statement.  A gauge of  commodity producers  on the Stoxx 600 rose for a
third day, its longest winning streak in two months. Rio Tinto
Group and Glencore Xstrata Plc advanced 1.1 percent to 2,915
pence and 2.8 percent to 272 pence, respectively.  Thomas Cook  increased 2.7 percent to 146.5 pence as UBS
raised its  rating  on the stock to buy from neutral and added the
travel operator to its “most preferred list.” The brokerage
said that 2013 has provided “an almost perfect environment for
tour operators.”  Unilever, which makes Dove soap, dropped 1.6 percent to
2,756 pence in London trading. Credit Suisse cut its rating on
the stock to underperform, similar to a sell recommendation,
saying the stock is expensive. The shares are trading at 19.3
times projected earnings, compared with a five-year average of
15.2 times,  according to data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Smiths Group Plc dropped 1 percent to 1,377 pence. The
maker of security scanners predicted that operating profit will
fall short of its previous forecast by as much as 15 million
pounds for the full-year ending in July. The company also said
it will make provisions for legal disputes and three contracts
at its Smiths Detection unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in  London  at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  