-- EuroCCP-EMCF Sign Deal to Form Pan-European Clearinghouse
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2013-07-17T07:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/euroccp-emcf-sign-deal-to-form-pan-european-clearinghouse.html
EuroCCP , the European unit of
Depository Trust & Clearing Corp., and European Multilateral
Clearing Facility NV agreed to merge, hoping to form the biggest
pan-European clearinghouse for stocks by the end of the year.  The combined company, which will be called EuroCCP NV, will
be based in Amsterdam, with offices in London and  Stockholm ,
Diana Chan, chief executive officer of London-based EuroCCP,
said in a phone interview. Chan will retain that role at the new
firm, the companies said in March when they announced plans to
combine. Financial terms of the transaction weren’t disclosed.  EuroCCP clears stocks across 19 markets, including Bats
Chi-X Europe Ltd., Stockholm-based Burgundy and  London Stock
Exchange Group Plc (LSE) ’s Turquoise. Competition in equity clearing
arrived in Europe with alternative trading systems in 2007,
driving down costs of buying and selling securities and
processing the transactions. Clearinghouses act as central
counterparties for every buy and sell order executed by their
members, protecting them if other traders default.  “Everyone is very concerned about keeping costs down,”
Chan said. “The biggest advantage is that two central
counterparties are combining to one so there are tremendous
savings due to margin efficiencies and simplicity of
operations.”  The new clearinghouse will be owned equally by four
shareholders. Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. and ABN Amro Clearing Bank,
both shareholders in EMCF, will own half and New York-based DTCC
and Bats Chi-X  Europe  will hold the rest.  ‘Full Speed’  “Now we will move full speed ahead preparing for
integration,” Chan said. “The deal has to pass through
regulatory and competition approval but we have been advised
that we can work on the transition aspect of the transaction.
People do need to get ready. We hope to close within the year.”  As volumes have shrunk, alternative trading systems have
combined or shut down. EuroCCP and EMCF previously held takeover
talks in 2010, without reaching an agreement. EuroCCP and EMCF
compete in Europe with London-based LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd.,
Europe’s largest securities clearinghouse, and SIX x-clear Ltd.,
the clearinghouse owned by  Switzerland ’s SIX Group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net  or @NandiniSukumar on Twitter  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  