-- Lew Warns Congress Against Changing Dodd-Frank Finance Rules
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2013-07-17T13:36:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/lew-warns-congress-against-changing-dodd-frank-financial-rules.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew
said he is “stepping on the accelerator” to implement the
Dodd-Frank Act and warned lawmakers against trying to change the
financial rules overhaul.  “Members of Congress who want to alter financial reform
before it is fully in place should carefully consider
implementation efforts that are approaching completion,” Lew
said in remarks prepared for the  CNBC  Institutional Investor
Delivering Alpha Conference in New York today. “Major change is
under way and will continue as the powerful tools created in
Dodd-Frank are implemented fully.”  Some lawmakers in Washington are trying to push through
their own modifications to the financial regulations. U.S.
Senator Elizabeth Warren, a Massachusetts Democrat, John McCain,
an  Arizona  Republican, and a bipartisan group of lawmakers have
introduced a bill aimed at re-creating the Glass-Steagall Act,
the Depression-era measure that separated commercial and
investment banking. Another Senate proposal, sponsored by Ohio
Democrat Sherrod Brown and Louisiana Republican David Vitter,
would limit bank size without restoring Glass-Steagall.  Lew’s address today focused on Dodd-Frank, which Congress
debated in the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis and
President  Barack Obama  signed into law on July 21, 2010. The
main elements of Dodd-Frank “will be substantially in place”
by the end of this year, Lew said, adding that he has been
“stepping on the accelerator” to implement it.  ‘Other Options’  “We need to use all the tools in Dodd-Frank to make sure
we’ve ended too-big-to-fail,” Lew said in a question-and-answer
session after his prepared remarks. “If we get to the end of
this year, and we cannot with an honest, straight face say that
we have ended too-big-to-fail, we’re going to have to look at
other options.” He didn’t elaborate on what alternatives the
Obama administration might consider.  Lew declined to update comments he made in May that the
federal government has room to operate under the debt limit
until at least September. The Bipartisan Policy Center said in a
posting on its website yesterday that the Treasury’s cash on
hand will be exhausted between mid-October and mid-November.  U.S. Regulators  Though U.S. regulators are coordinating the Dodd-Frank
rules with foreign governments, Lew said in his prepared speech
that “we will not let the pursuit of international consistency
force us to lower our standards.”  He called the Volcker rule ban on proprietary trading
“particularly important, and I will continue to push for swift
completion of a rule that keeps faith with the intent of the
statute and the president’s vision.” Regulators haven’t said
when they will complete the rule, which is named for former
Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker.  Lew also warned Congress against depriving financial
regulators of funds they need “to meet the significant new
responsibilities with which we have charged them.” The cost of
good regulation “is tiny compared to the enormous cost of
failure,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in  Washington  at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  