-- Former Lance Armstrong Ally Trek Acquires Tour Team
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-07-17T22:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/ex-armstrong-ally-trek-acquires-tour-team-as-doping-spooks-bank.html
Bicycle makers  Dorel Industries Inc. (DII/B) 
and Trek Bicycle Corp. are investing in Tour de  France  teams as
doping scandals scare off companies outside sports.  Dorel took a 35 percent stake in a squad that since January
bore the name of its Cannondale brand. Trek, which ended its
sponsorship of  Lance Armstrong  when the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency
showed he cheated in winning cycling’s biggest race a record
seven times, said June 26 it will take over the RadioShack team
in 2014. They’re following BMC Trading AG, whose rider  Cadel Evans  won the 2011 Tour de France.  The bikemakers are trying to get machines such as
Cannondale’s  $13,310 Supersix Evo Black Inc.  to stand out from
those made by 16 other competitors who sponsor teams, according
to Ulrich Lacher, a director at Cologne-based sports marketing
researcher Repucom. At the same time, they are getting into a
position to influence squad decisions including hiring riders to
suit their marketing requirements, Lacher said.  “The bikemakers have realized there is an opportunity,”
Lacher said. “Many other companies are reluctant to get
involved in cycling.”  The  Tour de France  runs through July 21. Cannondale’s team
hogged the television coverage on July 5 when its riders spent
almost five hours at the front of the main pack in leading Peter
Sagan to the stage win. The race provides about 80 percent of
exposure for sponsors, according to a May 1 report by Repucom.  Rabobank Rides Off  Rabobank Groep, the biggest Dutch mortgage lender, ended 17
years of cycling sponsorship on Oct. 19, saying it wasn’t
convinced the sport could become “clean and fair.” A week
earlier, USADA said Armstrong’s former teammate Levi Leipheimer
doped while on the Rabobank squad in 2003. Deutsche Telekom AG
quit the sport in 2007, a year after Boston-based insurer
Liberty Mutual Group Inc.  Demand for bikes is growing with image-conscious customers
in  China  and  Japan  willing to spend 25,000 euros ($32,800) on
the  BMC Impec Lamborghini , according to Andy Rihs, who co-owns
both BMC Trading and the BMC team. Dura Ace bike components,
which cost as much as $1,854 a set, helped  Shimano Inc. (7309)  increase
sales of bike components by 12 percent to 198.2 billion yen
($1.99 billion) in 2012, according to a Feb. 13 earnings report.  Bike makers have more than a century of history in elite
cycling. Founded in 1885 in Milan,  F.I.V. Fabbrica Italiana
Velocipedi Edoardo Bianchi SpA  started using races as a testing
ground for its products in 1896, and in 1911, Carlo Galetti won
the Giro d’Italia while riding for Bianchi, according to the
company’s U.S. website.  ‘Replaceable Commodity’  Typically, manufacturers have furnished teams with
equipment and about $5 million in sponsorship per year in return
for exposure at races, Rihs said. With a plethora of suppliers
including  Giant Manufacturing Co. (9921) , it’s more effective to
control your own team, Rihs added.  “If you’re just a supplier you are a replaceable
commodity, you might win one year and be out the next,” Rihs
said. “We’re different: we have strong, strong branding.”  BMC has the most exposure of any bike maker in cycling,
according to Repucom’s  report , which put Cannondale and Trek at
seventh and 11th respectively of 19 brands.  The Cannondale team’s previous owner, Liquigas SpA, ceded
ownership to a former executive of the Italian natural-gas
supplier, Paolo Zani, who now has a 55 percent stake. Roberto
Amadio, the team manager who owns the other 10 percent, said
Montreal-based Dorel wants to make the squad “as international
as possible,” reducing the ratio of Italians, VeloNews website
reported  Dec. 7 . The 2013 roster includes riders from  Australia ,
 Argentina ,  Canada ,  Colombia ,  Germany  and Japan.  Hiring, Firing  Two Cannondale executives on the board of Brixia Sport SpA,
which controls the team, must be consulted when a rider paid
more than 300,000 euros is hired or fired, company filings show.
Dorel spokesman Michael DeLeon declined to answer e-mailed
questions about its involvement in team affairs or reason for
buying the team.  Waterloo, Wisconsin-based  Trek , which is acquiring the
Radioshack-Leopard team from real-estate developer Flavio Becca,
will partly base hiring on marketing requirements, and “would
love to have a Chinese rider,” Eric Bjorling, a Trek spokesman,
said by phone.  The cost of running a team, which can top $30 million, is
prohibitive for some, Rihs said.  Cervelo Cycles Inc.  stopped
running a squad after 2010, and has reverted to being a
supplier. Making bikes is less profitable than some industries
because of discounted end-of-season prices and a “complex”
supply chain dominated by Shimano, according to Rihs.  ‘Better Make Cash’  He declined to disclose the net income of BMC, which he
said he jokingly calls “Better Make Cash” and has annual sales
of 160 million euros. Trek has sales of about $900 million,
Bjorling said, without disclosing net income. Sales and profit
of Cannondale, one of Dorel’s four bike brands, aren’t made
public.  Rihs in January sold part of his stake in hearing-aid maker
Sonova Holding AG, which he co-founded. The money to fund the
team comes from BMC Trading and “out of my own pocket,” Rihs
said.  “The costs are going up independent” of the fallout from
doping scandals, Rihs said. “But I wouldn’t be doing it if I
didn’t think it was worth it. I didn’t start a team for fun.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  