-- Ex-Air Force Sex-Assault Watchdog in Court in Grope Case
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-07-17T21:40:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/ex-air-force-sex-assault-watchdog-in-court-in-grope-case.html
The former head of the U.S.  Air
Force ’s office of sexual-assault prevention is headed to court
after being accused of groping a woman in a parking lot near the
Pentagon, as lawmakers review how the military addresses
allegations of sexual violence in its ranks.  Lieutenant Colonel Jeffrey Krusinski, 41, is scheduled to
appear tomorrow in Arlington County General District Court. He
was arrested May 5 in Arlington, a Washington suburb, after he
allegedly approached a woman “and grabbed her breasts and
buttocks,” according to a county police statement. The incident
occurred at 12:35 a.m. and Krusinski was drunk, police said.  Krusinski, who is free on bail, was charged with one count
of sexual battery. Prosecutors are expected to ask the judge to
dismiss that charge and seek to indict Krusinski for assault and
battery, according to a person close to the investigation. That
charge more closely tracks the allegations, according to the
person, who asked not to be identified because the matter isn’t
public yet.  Krusinski would face a fine of $2,500 and sentence of as
long as a year in jail for a sexual battery conviction and would
face similar penalties for an assault-and-battery count. Both
charges are misdemeanors. Krusinski didn’t enter a plea during
his initial court appearance on May 9.  Commonwealth’s Attorney Theo Stamos declined to comment on
the case.  ‘Looking Forward’  “We’re looking forward to addressing the matter in the
courtroom, Krusinski’s lawyer, Barry Coburn, said in a phone
interview.  “Once the civilian trial is complete, we will separately
assess the facts and evidence in the case and determine if there
are applicable disciplinary or administrative actions that are
appropriate,” Lieutenant Colonel Laurel Tingley, an Air Force
spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement. She declined to
comment further on the case.  Krusinski’s arrest, which stoked anger in Congress and the
Obama administration, happened two days before the Defense
Department released a survey reporting that there were about
26,000 cases of unwanted sexual contact in the military in 2012,
a 35 percent increase from two years earlier. Defense Secretary
Chuck Hagel has called the assaults a “blight” and a
“scourge” on the armed forces.  A push by U.S. Senator  Kirsten Gillibrand , a  New York 
Democrat, to remove the military chain of command from decisions
about whether to prosecute sexual assaults picked up support
this week from two of her Republican colleagues,  Rand Paul  of
 Kentucky  and  Ted Cruz  of  Texas .  Branch Chief  Krusinski had been branch chief for the sexual-assault
prevention and response office since February. He was removed
from the job pending an investigation of the parking-lot
incident, the Air Force said at the time of his arrest.  The Air Force has revamped the office, increasing its staff
to 31 from four and putting a general in charge. The expanded
office began operating June 3 under Major General Margaret
Woodward, who reports to the Air Force vice chief of staff,
according to an e-mailed statement from Lieutenant Colonel Jill
Whitesell, an Air Force spokeswoman.  “The Air Force recognized the need for a more prominent,
stand-alone, directorate-level office,” Whitesell said.  Such efforts haven’t mollified Gillibrand, who opposes the
practice of letting the military chain of command decide whether
sexual assault cases go to trial.  ‘No Accountability’  “There is no accountability because the trust that any
justice will be served has been irreparably broken under the
current system where commanders hold all the cards over whether
a case moves forward for prosecution,” Gillibrand said in
remarks prepared for delivery at a press conference yesterday.  She and her allies want to shift decision-making about
sexual assault and other serious crimes to military prosecutors.  Assault victims “may be deterred from reporting their
assault if they have to report it to their boss,” Paul said at
yesterday’s press conference.  Krusinski was commissioned in 1994 after his graduation
from the Air Force Academy. He has spent the bulk of his
military career in personnel posts, including stints at the
Pentagon in the Air Force Intelligence Analysis Agency, at
Wright-Patterson Air Force Base near Dayton,  Ohio , and at
MacDill Air Force Base in Tampa,  Florida , according to the Air
Force office of public affairs.  He deployed to  Iraq  from November 2009 to May 2010 and to
 Afghanistan  from August 2011 to February 2012, records show.  The case is  Virginia  v. Krusinski, GC13002001-00, Arlington
County General District Court (Arlington, Virginia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  