-- Ex-ArthroCare CEO Baker Charged With Defrauding Investors
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2013-07-17T21:36:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/ex-arthrocare-ceo-baker-charged-with-defrauding-investors.html
ArthroCare Corp. (ARTC) ’s former chief
executive officer and former chief financial officer were
charged with leading a $400 million scheme to defraud investors
in the maker of surgical products.  Ex-CEO Michael Baker and former finance chief Michael Gluk
were charged in a 17-count indictment unsealed today in federal
court in Austin,  Texas . The indictment alleges that Baker, Gluk
and other senior executives and employees of Austin, Texas-based
ArthroCare falsely inflated  revenue , starting at least by
December 2005 and continuing through December 2008.  “Those at the top of ArthroCare deceived investors and
regulators by manipulating the company’s reports to inflate its
stock, ultimately causing hundreds of millions in losses in
 shareholder value ,” Acting Assistant U.S. Attorney General
Mythili Raman said in a  statement  today.  Baker is charged with 14 counts of fraud, including
conspiracy, wire and  securities fraud , as well as three counts
of making false statements to federal regulators. Gluk is
charged with one count of conspiracy to commit fraud, 11 counts
of  wire fraud  and two counts of securities fraud. The U.S. also
seeks forfeiture of assets by the defendants.  “Mr. Baker did nothing wrong,” his attorney, Jay Pomerantz of Fenwick & West, said in an e-mailed statement. “He
properly relied on the advice of ArthroCare’s numerous
attorneys, the advice of its independent external auditor, and
the representations of his employees and senior managers
regarding the matters that the government investigated.”  Baker and Gluk were sued by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission last year on similar claims. That case is
pending in federal court in Austin. Jason Lewis, Gluk’s lawyer
in the SEC case, didn’t immediately return calls seeking comment
on the charges.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Baker, 13-cr-00346, U.S.
District Court, Western District of Texas (Austin).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net 
ARTC US  <Equity> 