-- Ex-Morgan Stanley Executives Said to Plan $2 Billion Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2013-07-17T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/ex-morgan-stanley-executives-said-to-plan-2-billion-fund.html
I Squared Capital LLC, the private-equity firm led by former executives of  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s
infrastructure arm, is seeking $2 billion for its debut global
fund, a person with knowledge of the matter said.  ISQ Global Infrastructure Fund LP will invest in energy,
utilities and transportation, according to two people familiar
with the matter, who asked not to be identified because the
information isn’t public.  Sadek Wahba, a partner at the firm, didn’t immediately
respond to a call seeking comment. Campbell Lutyens & Co. is
helping the firm raise the money, the people said.  I Squared Capital, based in New York, is among a number of
firms amassing multibillion-dollar funds to make investments
related to public works. Morgan Stanley’s infrastructure
investment unit plans to seek $4 billion for a second global
fund, two people with knowledge of the matter said in May.
Toronto-based  Brookfield Asset Management Inc. (BAM)  has raised $6.2
billion for a private infrastructure fund, exceeding the $5
billion target, according to a July 9 SEC filing.  About two thirds of the I Squared fund will be allocated to
North America and Europe, with the rest slated for fast-growing
economies such as China and  India , according to the people.  Wahba and partners Gautam Bhandari and Adil Rahmathulla
previously worked together at Morgan Stanley. Wahba, who was
chief investment officer and global head of Morgan Stanley’s
infrastructure team, left the bank in late 2011. Bhandari had
been a managing director and head of the infrastructure team in
Asia, and Rahmathulla was head of investment execution in the
Americas for the group.  The I Squared team totals 27 professionals, nine of whom
came from Morgan Stanley’s infrastructure arm, including the
investment and fundraising group from New York,  London  and Asia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in New York at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  