-- Excellence Hurts Returns in U.S. Stock Study: Chart of the Day
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2013-07-17T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/excellence-hurts-returns-in-u-s-stock-study-chart-of-the-day.html
Focusing on the highest-quality U.S.
stocks will lead to relatively low returns, according to Barry B. Bannister, Stifel Financial Corp.’s equity strategist.  Companies meeting financial criteria from the book “In
Search of Excellence” were less rewarding than those which were
the most “un-excellent” from 1972 through last year, Bannister
wrote in a report published yesterday.  As the CHART OF THE DAY shows, a comparison of quality
indexes compiled by S&P Dow Jones Indices is in keeping with his
results. S&P Dow Jones rates stocks in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index as A, B, C or D, with pluses and minuses at the A and B
levels. Stocks with B, B- and C ratings have risen more than A-rated stocks in the current  bull market , as shown in the chart.  While S&P Dow Jones’s quality rankings are based on
earnings and dividends, Bannister’s study used half a dozen
indicators from “In Search of Excellence,” written by Tom Peters and Robert H. Waterman Jr. and published in 1982.  Excellent companies were among the S&P 500’s top third by
returns on assets, equity and total capital, growth in assets
and equity, and ratios of share prices to book value, or the
value of assets after subtracting liabilities. Un-excellent
companies were in the bottom third in each category. Rankings
were based on the last five fiscal years, and each group was
represented by 33 companies.  Anyone who invested $1,000 in un-excellent stocks every
midyear during the 40-year period would have had $1.62 million
of shares as of June 30, Bannister wrote. That’s well above the
$502,000 for excellent stocks, and also the S&P 500’s $637,000.  “This is a robust testament in favor of ‘value’
investing,” or buying stocks that are cheap by the book’s
criteria or other gauges, the Baltimore-based strategist wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wilson in  New York  at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  