-- Experimental Cancer Knife Improves Tumor Removal in Study
-- B y   A n d r e a   G e r l i n
-- 2013-07-17T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/experimental-cancer-knife-improves-tumor-removal-in-study.html
An experimental “intelligent
knife” that allows surgeons to distinguish between healthy and
cancerous tissue when they are operating on tumors has potential
to make the surgery faster and more precise, U.K. doctors said.  The “iKnife” was 100 percent accurate in diagnosing the
tissues in 91 patients, according to a study published today by
doctors at Imperial College  London  in the journal Science
Translational Medicine. It was at least as reliable as tissue
testing, which takes 20 to 30 minutes. The device isn’t
commercially available and requires further testing in large
groups of patients, the doctors said.  The iKnife combines an existing electrosurgery knife with a
mass spectrometer. It uses electric current to cut tissue, which
produces smoke that’s sucked into a tube and fed into the
spectrometer. The instrument analyzes its molecular composition
and software matches it to a known tissue type, telling a
surgeon in two or three seconds what the knife is cutting.  “The surgeon on the spot has to make a decision about
where to cut and what to remove,”  Zoltan Takats , the device’s
inventor and a specialist in medical mass spectrometry at
Imperial College London, said at a press conference. “The
result of mass spectrometry is immediately compared to a large
database. Based on this we can give feedback to the surgeon.”  The study was funded by the U.K. National Institute for
Health Research, the Imperial Biomedical Research Centre, the
European Research Council and the Hungarian National Office for
Research and Technology. Takats’s company,  Medimass Ltd. , has
received investment from Euroventures Hungary BV, a Hungarian
venture capital firm, he said.  Takats and his company are in discussions with  Waters
Corp. (WAT) , a Milford, Massachusetts-based maker of life-science
equipment, he said.  Imperial Innovations Group Plc (IVO) , a U.K.
technology commercialization and investment company, is also
talking with Takats and Medimass about the iKnife, said Jonathan
Wilkinson, senior technology licensing executive at Imperial
Innovations.  The iKnife will be tested in hundreds of people with lung,
brain and colorectal cancer, said Jeremy Nicholson, head of the
department of surgery and cancer at Imperial College London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Gerlin in London at 
 agerlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  