-- Fed’s Raskin Urges Higher Bank Capital Standards to Avert Crises
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-07-17T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/fed-s-raskin-urges-higher-bank-capital-standards-to-avert-crises.html
Federal Reserve Governor  Sarah Bloom Raskin  said regulators should prevent asset-price bubbles by
boosting the amount and quality of capital required of banks.  Officials also should continue stress testing of lenders,
restrain banks from “excessively” extending loans, and reduce
“overreliance on unstable short-term wholesale funding,”
Raskin said in a  speech  prepared for delivery today in
 Washington . She did not comment on the outlook for the economy
or monetary policy in her prepared remarks.  “These reforms will build resilience to whatever shocks
may come, and will reduce the potential for asset bubbles and
excessive credit growth, leverage, maturity transformation,
reliance on unstable short-term wholesale funding, and, thus,
the potential for future financial crises,” Raskin, formerly
 Maryland ’s top financial regulator, said in her speech to
bankers and other financial industry leaders.  Central bank officials, including Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen , Governor  Jeremy Stein , and Kansas City Fed President
Esther George, have voiced concern this year that four years of
record-low  interest rates  are overheating markets for assets
from farmland to  junk bonds . Stein in February cited leveraged
loans and junk bonds as areas that have been “very robust.”  ‘Lean Against’  “Regulatory policies can lean against emerging asset
bubbles and the vulnerabilities that attend them by restraining
financial institutions from excessively extending credit,”
Raskin told the Exchequer Club. “Such policies can build
resilience in the financial system, enhancing its ability to
absorb and shrug off unexpected losses from any source,
including sharp asset price declines.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said today in testimony to the
House Financial Services Committee the central bank’s asset
purchases “are by no means on a preset course” and could be
reduced more quickly or expanded as economic conditions warrant.  Regulators have sought to prevent excessive risk taking in
markets since the 2008 credit freeze led to the worst U.S.
recession since the 1930s. The Fed has kept its benchmark
 interest rate  near zero since December 2008 and is buying bonds
to reduce borrowing costs, spur growth and combat unemployment.  Yellen said in a Jan. 4 speech that financial markets
should be regulated more tightly to reduce the risk of 2008-like
credit crises. Regulators could make financial markets more
resilient by setting higher  capital requirements  for so-called
systematically important global banks, she said.  Stein in a Feb. 7 speech said some markets are showing
signs of potentially excessive risk-taking and “a fairly
significant pattern of reaching-for-yield” in corporate bonds.
Bonds, farmland, and high-yield and leveraged loans “are at
historically high levels,” George  said  in a Jan. 10 speech.  Raskin, 52, has backed Federal Open Market Committee
decisions this year to continue purchasing securities at the
rate of $85 billion a month to boost growth and reduce
unemployment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  