-- Germany Police Raid Suspected Nazi-Style Terrorist Group
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-07-17T11:01:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/germany-police-raid-suspected-nazi-style-terrorist-group.html
German authorities oversaw a series
of raids targeting an underground Nazi-style “Werewolf” group
suspected of contemplating terrorist attacks.  Officials raided apartments and businesses of four suspects
early today in northern  Germany , the Netherlands and
 Switzerland , Germany’s Federal Prosecutor said in a  statement .
No arrests were made and an investigation hasn’t uncovered
concrete plans to undertake a violent attack, it said.  “The group’s objective was apparently to overthrow the
political system of the Federal Republic of Germany,” the
prosecutor said. The jail cells of two associates in Switzerland
were raided as police sought evidence.  A debate about right-wing terror in Germany arose after the
discovery in late 2011 of an underground neo-Nazi cell that
carried out murders, attacks and bank robberies undetected for
more than a decade. The ongoing trial of the so-called National
Social Underground has raised questions about anti-immigrant
sentiment and official handling of neo-Nazi groups.  “Werewolf” is a reference to a  partisan unit  set up by
the collapsing Nazi regime in 1944 by Heinrich Himmler. Its aim
was to harass and sabotage occupiers after World War II, though
a broad-based resistance movement never arose.  The group developed an electronic encryption program to
communicate beyond the scrutiny of authorities, the prosecutor
said. Some 50 police participated in the raids today in the
German states of Hamburg, Lower Saxony and Mecklenburg-Western
Pomerania. Raids outside of Germany were conducted by Dutch and
Swiss authorities through legal-assistance agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  