-- European Government Bonds Fall After BOE; Bernanke to Testify
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-07-17T11:10:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/germany-s-10-year-bonds-little-changed-before-sale-of-2023-debt.html
European  government bonds  fell as
the  Bank of England  backed away from increasing stimulus,
fueling concern that global central banks are ready to trim the
monetary accommodation that has supported prices.  French, Dutch and Italian securities declined, while
 Germany ’s 10-year bund yields increased from near the  lowest 
level in four weeks as the nation sold 3.19 billion euros ($4.19
billion) of the debt. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
will testify to Congress today and may provide more details on
when U.S. stimulus will be reduced. Spain’s bonds dropped before
the country auctions debt due between 2016 and 2023 tomorrow.  “If the BOE starts considering not increasing quantitative
easing but looking at other policies and the  European Central
Bank  is also engaging on some form of mild forward guidance, it
shows that the central banks of the largest economies are
shifting,” said Gianluca Ziglio, executive director of fixed-income research at Sunrise Brokers LLP in London. “That’s not
good for bonds which have been supported by asset purchases over
the past years.”  Germany’s 10-year bund yield rose three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 1.58 percent at 12:08 p.m.  London  time
after dropping to 1.54 percent on July 12, the lowest since June
19. The 1.5 percent bond due in May 2023 declined 0.28, or 2.80
euros per 1,000-euro face amount, to 99.265. Two-year yields
increased one basis point to 0.1 percent.  Germany sold the 10-year securities at an average yield of
1.57 percent, up from 1.55 percent on June 19. That’s compares
with a  record-low  1.28 percent set at an auction on April 17.  Portugal  sold bills today while Greece’s parliament is due
to vote on policy changes needed to win the next tranche of
international aid.  Spain, Italy  Spanish 10-year yields rose three basis points to 4.72
percent, while rates on similar-maturity Italian securities were
two basis points higher at 4.49 percent.  Bank of England officials  Paul Fisher  and  David Miles 
dropped their call for more stimulus in favor of a “mixed
strategy” involving guidance on the path of  interest rates ,
according to the minutes of the Monetary Policy Committee’s July
3-4 meeting published today in London.  Bernanke, who has said the Fed may start reducing its $85
billion in monthly bond purchases later this year assuming
economic growth meets officials’ predictions, will appear before
House members today and senators tomorrow to present the Fed’s
semi-annual monetary policy report.  His statement to the House Financial Services Committee is
set for public release at 8:30 a.m. in  Washington , 90 minutes
before he delivers it to lawmakers.  Bernanke Signals  “Any signals Bernanke might send out are front and
center,” said  John Wraith , a fixed-income strategist at Bank of
America Corp. in London. “The safe-haven bid has been put back
into bunds again.” German 10-year yields have fallen eight
basis points in the past week.  German bunds have outperformed Treasuries amid speculation
the ECB will maintain or expand its stimulus to pull the 17-nation region out of its recession.  The extra yield, or  spread , that investors receive for
holding 10-year Treasuries instead of similar-maturity bunds
increased two basis points to 97 basis points today, up from 44
at the end of 2012. It reached 102 basis points on July 12, the
most since 2006, based on closing prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Spread Widening  Investors should still favor bunds and expect the spread to
widen to 150 basis points, according to Alessandro Giansanti, a
senior rate strategist at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam.  “The movement has been very fast, because the last 40
percent of the widening has happened over the last month,
therefore a short-term reversal leg can’t be ruled out,”
Giansanti wrote in a client note. “Nevertheless, we suggest to
take advantage of any re-tightening in the spread to open long
positions at more attractive levels.”  Volatility on Finnish bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today followed by those of France and the Netherlands,
according to measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between
two- and 10-year securities, and credit-default swaps.  France’s 10-year yield climbed four basis points to 2.22
percent, while the rate on similar-maturity Dutch bonds added
three basis points to 2 percent.  German bonds handed investors a loss of 0.7 percent this
year through yesterday, according to Bloomberg World Bond
Indexes. Spanish securities returned 5.8 percent and  Italy ’s
gained 2.4 percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  