-- Glaxo Executive Unable to Leave China Amid Probe
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-18T03:20:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/glaxo-executive-unable-to-leave-china-amid-probe.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s finance chief
in  China  is unable to leave the country as local authorities
investigate allegations of economic crimes at the maker of the
world’s top-selling drug.  The travel restriction was imposed at the end of June,
Simon Steel, a Glaxo spokesman in London, said yesterday by
phone. Steve Nechelput, the executive, hasn’t been questioned or
arrested and isn’t being detained, he said. The British embassy
is providing the British national with consular assistance,  John
Gallagher , a Beijing-based spokesman, said by phone.  Glaxo has had four of its senior executives detained amid
an investigation involving 3 billion  yuan  ($489 million) of
spurious travel and meeting expenses, and trade in sexual
favors, China’s Public Security Ministry said July 15. Mark
Reilly, who has led the London-based company’s business in China
since 2009, left the country on June 27 after his colleagues
were detained, the ministry said.  “This could be the government killing the chicken to scare
the monkeys, using the GSK case to send a signal to
pharmaceutical companies to say ‘maybe it’s time to stop this
type of practices,’” said  Yanzhong Huang , senior fellow for
global health at the  Council on Foreign Relations  in New York
and author of the book, Governing Health in Contemporary China.
“This case just represents the tip of the iceberg.”  Routine Trip  Reilly returned to the U.K. on a routine, planned business
trip and has been working from Glaxo’s headquarters on the
response to the probe, a person with knowledge of the matter
said July 15. The person, who asked not to be identified because
he wasn’t authorized to speak on the subject, declined to say
when or whether Reilly will return to China.  The company hired Ernst & Young LLP to conduct an
independent audit, the Financial Times reported. Terence Ng, a
Hong Kong-based media relations manager at the auditor, declined
to comment on the report.  Glaxo faces a review from the U.K.’s Serious Fraud Office,
the Wall Street Journal reported, citing people familiar with
the matter. Susan Givens, a spokeswoman for the fraud office,
said she couldn’t confirm or deny the report. Garry Daniels, a
Singapore-based spokesman at Glaxo, declined to comment today.  CEO Role  Separately, Glaxo said Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Witty 
will step down from his role as non-executive director at the
U.K. Department for Business, Innovation and Skills. The
decision isn’t related to the probe in China, the company said
yesterday.  “Andrew’s three-year term at BIS is due to finish at the
end of 2013, so as always planned he will be stepping down at
that point,” Glaxo said.  State broadcaster  China Central Television  aired a prime-time segment on July 16 detailing how executives at the U.K.’s
largest drugmaker used a travel agency to funnel bribes to
government officials.  The CCTV report featured Liang Hong, operations manager for
Glaxo China, explaining how executives passed bribes to drug
regulators, pricing officials at the National Development and
Reform Commission and hospital officials. Liang is among the
four Glaxo executives in police custody, CCTV reported.  The allegations are “shameful” and would be a breach of
internal systems and values, Glaxo said in a  statement .  Chinese Crackdown  Efforts to clean up the nation’s $350 billion health-care
industry have gained prominence since police said last month
they were investigating Glaxo for suspected economic crimes.
Yesterday, the China Food and Drug Administration said it will
“severely crack down” on fake medications, forged documents
and bribery.  China’s drugs regulator will conduct a crackdown from July
to December, Yan Jiangying, a spokeswoman for the agency, told
reporters at a briefing in Beijing yesterday.  Recent investigations have so far implicated Glaxo, though
other foreign companies may also be involved, Gao Feng, head of
the economic crimes investigations unit of China’s Public
Security Ministry, told reporters at a July 15 briefing.  Glaxo makes the asthma treatment Seretide, the world’s top-selling drug last year,  according to  IMS Health Inc.  At least four multinational drugmakers are facing probes by
local anti-corruption units in China, according to Wendy Wysong,
the head of anti-corruption practice in the Asia-Pacific region
at law firm  Clifford Chance . No other foreign  drug company  apart
from Glaxo has been named so far by Chinese authorities in
connection with the investigation.  Other Drugmakers  Novartis AG (NOVN) , Europe’s biggest drugmaker by sales, hasn’t
been contacted by Chinese authorities with regards to the
bribery probe,  Joe Jimenez , the Basel, Switzerland-based
drugmaker’s chief executive officer, said on an earnings call
with reporters yesterday.  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) , the biggest U.K. drugmaker after Glaxo,
said in its 2012 annual report that it is investigating
indications of inappropriate conduct in countries that include
China. The company has no update yet, Esra Erkal-Paler, a
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Sanofi, France’s biggest drugmaker, declined to comment on
questions from  Bloomberg News  about whether it’s had any contact
with China’s government in relation to bribery probes, or
whether the investigation could have any implications for its
business in China.  No Approach  Bayer AG (BAYN)  spokesman Guenter Forneck said the company hasn’t
been approached in China by the authorities in connection with
any misconduct, and declined to comment on the Glaxo situation.  Merck & Co. (MRK) , the second-biggest U.S. drugmaker, hasn’t been
contacted by the Ministry of Public Security, spokeswoman Kelley
Dougherty said.  The focus on corruption coincides with the government’s
objective to improve access to health care, lower drug prices
and improve public hospitals, said Huang at the Council on
Foreign Relations.  China’s top economic planning agency is investigating the
costs and prices of drugmakers including Glaxo, Merck, Novartis
and  Baxter International Inc. (BAX)  to improve the pricing system for
medicines. The National Development and Reform Commission will
examine 27 companies for costs and 33 for pricing, according to
a July 2 statement.  “No non-Chinese company, in pharmaceuticals or any other
field, should be gloating,” said  Erik Gordon , a business and
law professor at the  University of Michigan  in  Ann Arbor , in an
e-mailed statement. “What they should be learning is that they
could be next if they fail to keep China happy.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Allison Connolly in London at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net ;
Natasha Khan in  Hong Kong  at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  