-- Currency to Oil Rates Targeted for Tougher Rules After Libor
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-07-17T16:41:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/global-regulators-seek-tougher-oversight-of-benchmark-setting.html
Benchmarks underpinning markets from
oil to currencies face tougher oversight under plans by global
regulators to prevent any repeat of Libor-style fraud.  Rates should be based as much as possible on real
transaction data, rather than estimates, and banks should tackle
conflicts of interest, the International Organization of
Securities Commissions, a Madrid-based group that harmonizes
global market rules, said in  guidelines  published today.  Authorities are grappling with a growing number of rate-setting scandals. Global regulators have fined  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Barclays
Plc (BARC)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  about $2.5 billion for
distorting the London interbank offered rate, known as Libor,
and similar benchmarks.  The measures are “an important step” in restoring the
credibility of tarnished benchmarks, Martin Wheatley, chief
executive officer of the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority and a
co-head of the Iosco benchmark  task force , said in a statement.
“These principles set out clear and robust standards.”  Probes into potential rigging have expanded beyond
interbank lending rates to include benchmarks underpinning
 energy prices , currency trades and derivatives.  Alleged Manipulation  The U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission this week
ordered Barclays and four former traders to pay a combined
$487.9 million in fines, as part of an investigation of alleged
manipulation of energy markets.  In a separate probe, the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission is reading through 1 million e-mails and instant
messages from traders at the world’s largest 15 banks and broker
ICAP Plc for evidence of manipulation of the ISDAfix rate.  Gary Gensler , chairman of the CFTC, co-led the Iosco task
force with Wheatley.  Iosco’s recommendations show that the best way to restore
confidence in benchmarks is to “greatly improve the existing
arrangements, rather than adopt a whole new approach,”  Richard
Reid , a researcher at the  University of Dundee  in  Scotland , said
in an e-mail.  Because benchmarks can’t always be based on real
transaction data, “the success of the proposals will depend
upon the transparency and accountability mechanisms which are
set in place and the vigor and effectiveness with which these
are policed,” Reid said.  Public Disclosure  Organizations that administrate benchmarks will be required
by regulators to “publicly disclose their compliance” with the
guidelines within 12 months, Iosco said. The group will carry
out a review in 18 months to see how well the measures have been
enforced.  The Iosco standards require that benchmarks “be anchored
by observable transactions and subject to robust governance
processes,” Gensler said in the Iosco statement published on
the group’s website.  Under the Iosco guidelines, firms involved in benchmark-setting will have to increase oversight of their employees who
set the rates, and sign up to a code of conduct.  Organizations in charge of administrating rates should be
responsible for verifying the accuracy of the data they receive
from banks and other market participants, and ensuring it is
based on data from actual trades as much as possible, Iosco
said.  Libor Administration  U.K. authorities said this month that responsibility for
administrating Libor will be transferred from the British
Bankers’ Association, an industry group, to NYSE Euronext, in a
bid to restore credibility of the rate, which is tied to $300
trillion in securities.  Iosco, which brings together markets and securities
regulators from over 100 countries, said that its guidelines
should be applied to a broad range of benchmarks, ranging from
interbank rates to benchmarks underlying energy, equity and
commodities markets. Exceptions include benchmarks established
by public authorities, such as consumer price indexes, and
reference prices set by clearinghouses.  The organization also said that the standards should be
seen as supplementary to recommendations it published last year
that target oil price reporting agencies.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Statoil ASA (STL)  and Platts, the
oil-price data collector owned by  McGraw Hill Financial Inc. (MHFI) ,
are being investigated by the European Commission on price
fixing concerns. Platts publishes the Dated Brent benchmark that
helps determine the price of more than half the world’s oil.  PRA Principles  “The price-reporting agencies principles were developed
with due regard to the specifics of the oil market,” whereas
today’s guidelines are more general, Iosco said. “While both
sets of principles reflect similar high-level concerns, they
differ in specifics.”  Iosco said that it would weigh the need to more closely
align the two sets of guidelines, in collaboration with the
 International Energy Agency , International Energy Forum and the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.  “Platts supports initiatives by legislators and regulators
to assure confidence in price benchmarks in the oil markets and
other physical  commodities markets  that we cover” Larry Neal,
Platts president, said in an e-mailed statement.  Auditors are already conducting independent reviews of
Platts and competitors Argus and ICIS, the companies said May
22. They’ll scrutinize compliance with methodologies for
publishing benchmark prices for crude, refined products and
other commodities.  Platts is “well on track” to have an external review into
its oil price assessments finished by October, the company said
in a statement today. “We are confident that the review will
demonstrate that our price assessment processes are underpinned
by very robust governance and control systems,” it said.  Transaction Data  Benchmarks should be “anchored in observable transactions
entered into at arm’s length between buyers and sellers,”
according to today’s Iosco guidelines. Still, this doesn’t mean
that “every individual benchmark determination must be
constructed solely from transaction data.”  Regulators have clashed over the speed at which tarnished
benchmarks should be replaced, and over how hard and how fast
authorities should push the abandoning of rates based on
estimates rather than real transactions.  While Gensler has said benchmarks such as Libor that are
based on banks’ estimates should be replaced with alternatives
using real transaction data as soon as possible, other
authorities, including Wheatley, have argued in favor of a more
incremental approach.  The Iosco standards are one of several steps being taken by
international regulators to restore confidence in benchmarks.  Financial Stability Board Chairman  Mark Carney , the
governor of the  Bank of England , said last month that global
regulators will set up a task force with banks in a bid to
repair or replace tarnished benchmarks in the wake of the rate-rigging scandals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  