-- Goldman Sachs Sells Redi Stake to Group of Wall Street Firms
-- B y   L u   W a n g   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2013-07-17T15:40:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/goldman-sachs-sells-redi-stake-to-group-of-wall-street-firms-1-.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said it
agreed to sell a majority stake in Redi, a unit that provides
trading technology, to a group of Wall Street firms.  The buyers include  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s Merrill Lynch
unit, Barclays Plc,  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , Citadel LLC and Lightyear
Capital LLC, according to a statement today. New York-based
Goldman Sachs will keep a “significant minority equity stake”
in the company. Financial terms were not disclosed. Rishi
Nangalia, who previously co-managed Goldman Sachs’s electronic
trading business development group, will serve as the company’s
chief executive officer.  The diversification of Redi’s ownership may make the unit
more attractive to clients compared with being controlled by a
single brokerage, according to Jamie Selway, head of electronic
brokerage and sales at Investment Technology Group Inc.  “Goldman is heading toward a consortium approach,” Selway
said in a phone interview. “Clients are more comfortable with
broker neutrality in the context of independent technology
providers or consortium of broker dealers. The operation of
these systems requires a technology culture and can be
expensive.”  Goldman Sachs acquired the software that formed the basis
for Redi when it purchased  New York  Stock Exchange specialist
Spear, Leeds & Kellogg LP in 2000 and has expanded it to handle
trades in asset classes such as currencies and interest rates.  RealTick  Goldman Sachs’s plans come about two years after London-based  Barclays Plc (BARC)  sold the RealTick trading platform, which
lets customers access services from multiple brokers, to New
York-based ConvergEx Inc. Barclays said in December 2010 that it
planned to use the system within its investment banking unit and
offer the platform to customers. The bank got RealTick when it
acquired parts of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.  Citigroup Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co., Knight Capital Group
Inc. and other securities firms bought execution-management
systems starting in the mid-2000s to give mutual funds and other
clients access to exchanges and algorithms, or trading
strategies that allow them to process larger orders in small
pieces over a preset period, along with other transaction
services. Some platforms were open to the algorithms of multiple
brokers or technology providers while others focused on those
from a single firm.  Investment Technology Group (ITG)  and Instinet Inc., a subsidiary
of Tokyo-based Nomura Holdings Inc., offer execution platforms
to customers. Both firms are execution-only brokers that don’t
trade with their own money. Bloomberg LP, the parent of
 Bloomberg News , offers similar systems.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at   lwang8@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  