-- Google Urged to Improve EU Antitrust Probe Accord Proposals
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-07-17T11:40:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/google-urged-to-improve-proposals-for-eu-antitrust-probe-accord.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  must present the
European Union with “better” proposals if it wants to settle
the almost three-year-old EU antitrust probe into the way it
operates its search service, the bloc’s competition chief said.  Google’s offer in April, which included “clearly”
distinguishing its own search services from those of rivals for
five years, won’t be sufficient to allay the EU’s concerns, EU
Competition Commissioner Joaquin Almunia said at a press
conference in Brussels today. He said he wrote to Google
Chairman  Eric Schmidt  asking to improve their offer.  “The proposals that Google sent to us months ago are not
enough to overcome our concerns and in this sense I wrote a
letter to the president of Google, to Mr. Schmidt, asking Google
to present better proposals, or improved proposals,” said
Almunia.  Google, the owner of the world’s largest search engine, in
April  offered  to label its branded search services and show
links “to three rival specialized search services close to its
own” as part of a series of  commitments  to end the probe.
Competitors and users had two months, until June 27, to send
comments on the proposed remedies, which the EU will consider
before reaching a decision.  Google’s Remedies  Google’s remedies seek to address concerns that the company
promotes its own specialist search services, such as Google News
and Google Finance, copies rivals’ travel and restaurant
reviews, and has agreements with websites and software
developers that stifle competition in the advertising industry.  The EU probe also includes any search services Google may
develop in the future.  “Our proposal to the European Commission clearly addresses
their four areas of concern,” Al Verney, a Brussels-based
spokesman for the Mountain View, California-based company, said
by telephone today. “We continue to work with the commission to
settle this case.”  Fining Companies  In addition to fining companies for antitrust violations,
the Brussels-based commission may impose orders to change the
way firms operate. The authority can also penalize companies for
failing to live up to the commitments made as part of an
antitrust settlement.  While Almunia has sought a deal to end the Google matter,
Google rivals have stepped up pressure to block any settlement.
The commission has received “very negative” feedback from
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and other companies, Cecilio Madero, the EU’s
deputy director-general for antitrust, said in June.  “Google’s proposed commitments across the board retard
rather than promote competition; they do more harm than good,”
Thomas Vinje, a Brussels-based lawyer for FairSearch Europe,
said in a statement today. Google’s proposed changes “attract
the vast majority of searchers to the company’s own products,
and discourage them from visiting rivals, according to a study
commissioned by the group.  FairSearch, which represents companies including Microsoft,
 Expedia Inc. (EXPE)  and  Nokia Oyj. (NOK1V)  said April 9 that it had filed a
separate antitrust complaint against Google over its Android
operating system on mobile phones. In addition, Google’s
Motorola Mobility unit is the subject of another EU probe
related to patent licensing.  Google will face a so-called statement of objections if
settlement discussions don’t succeed, Almunia said in a speech
in  Madrid , Spain, on June 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Brussels at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  