-- Greece’s Debt Sustainability Seen by Monitors as More Uncertain
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-07-17T14:41:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/greece-s-debt-sustainability-seen-by-monitors-as-more-uncertain.html
Uncertainty about Greek debt
sustainability has increased after the government stumbled in
selling state-owned enterprises, international monitors said in
their latest report on the debt-stricken country.  “Downside risks have increased significantly compared to
the second review, particularly as regards privatization
proceeds,” the group comprising the European Commission,
 European Central Bank  and  International Monetary Fund  said in
the report provided to German lawmakers today. “Moreover,
significant further delays in clearing arrears would exacerbate
existing liquidity problems in the  Greek economy .”  The outlook for Greece’s economic and fiscal recovery has
been clouded by sluggish enactment of an economic overhaul and
euro-area slump, the group said. That’s come on top of the the
government’s failure to attract any bids for its gas monopoly.  Greek labor unions held their third general strike of the
year yesterday in challenge to Prime Minister Antonis Samaras,
who seeks to enforce a plan to put 25,000 public employees on
notice for possible dismissal. His government must pass the
measures for the country’s international creditors to sign off
on the next loan disbursements.  Greece ’s public debt is expected to peak at 175.6 percent
of gross domestic product this year and drop below 120 percent
of GDP by 2021 “assuming that Greece continues to strongly
implement the program,” the report said.  The report, which is based on the findings of a two-part
mission to  Athens  between June 4-19 and July 1-7, notes that
Greece’s progress is “often slow,” though the program is
“broadly on track.”  Far-reaching changes are still needed in public
administration policies, improvements of the business
environment, energy and justice, it said. The economy would
“greatly benefit” from more determined implementation of the
privatization program, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  