-- Greek Parliament Approves Austerity Measures to Release Funds
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s ,   E l e n i   C h r e p a   a n d   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2013-07-17T22:27:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/greek-parliament-approves-austerity-measures-to-release-funds.html
Greek lawmakers passed a bill that
puts thousands of state workers on notice for possible
dismissal, a victory for Prime Minister Antonis Samaras that
clears the way for the country’s next installment of bailout
loans.  A total of 153 lawmakers voted for most of the articles in
a roll call with 140 against, Deputy Parliament Speaker Christos
Markogiannakis said in remarks carried live on state-run Vouli
TV after voting ended shortly after midnight local time. The
vote came hours before German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  arrives in  Athens  for a one-day visit.  With his coalition reduced and Greece stuck in its sixth
year of recession, Samaras pushed the job cuts over public
protests amid record unemployment of 27 percent. Passage was
needed for euro-area officials and the  International Monetary
Fund  to sign off on the next disbursements from a 240 billion-euro ($314 billion) bailout.  “An unprecedented effort is now under way to reconstitute
our country’s economy and state,” Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras told lawmakers before the vote. “I’m totally
confident that the road we’re following is the right one. The
effort is yielding results.”  The bill includes provisions to push through a plan to put
25,000 public employees on notice for possible dismissal. About
3,000 people protested peacefully in front of parliament during
the debate, according to police estimates.  Euro-area finance ministers, whose deputies will discuss
unlocking the payment in a July 24 teleconference, committed to
pay 2.5 billion euros this month and 500 million euros in
October. In addition,  Greece  can count on recouping 2 billion
euros of central bank profits on domestic bonds, plus 1.8
billion euros from the IMF.  Samaras’s coalition was shaken last month after the
departure of the Democratic Left party following the closure of
state broadcaster ERT. His New Democracy party must now rely on
its historic rival, the socialist Pasok party. The two control
155 of the Greek parliament’s 300 seats.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net ;
Eleni Chrepa in Athens at 
 echrepa@bloomberg.net ;
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  