-- Gupta Ordered to Pay $13.9 Million in Inside-Trading Case
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-07-18T17:29:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/gupta-ordered-to-pay-13-9-million-in-sec-insider-trading-case.html
Rajat Gupta , the former Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. director found guilty of passing confidential
tips to billionaire hedge-fund manager  Raj Rajaratnam , was
ordered to pay $13.9 million in a related U.S. regulatory case.  Gupta, 64, managing partner of McKinsey & Co. from 1994 to
2003, was convicted last year. He was permanently barred from
acting as an officer or director of a public company and from
associating with any broker or investment adviser, the
Securities and Exchange Commission said yesterday, citing an
order by U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in  Manhattan .  Gupta was found guilty in June 2012 of divulging inside
information to the Galleon Group LLC co-founder about  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s $5 billion investment in Goldman Sachs as well
as nonpublic details about the bank’s financial results for the
second and fourth quarters of 2008.  Rakoff sentenced Gupta to two years in prison in October
and ordered him to pay a $5 million fine. He is free pending his
appeal.  “Gupta was guilty of an egregious breach of trust
involving multiple material disclosures of inside information,”
Rakoff said in an order dated yesterday and made public today.  Gupta’s tips about Goldman resulted in Rajaratnam’s netting
$4.6 million, Rakoff said. While the judge declined to grant the
SEC’s request to include other monetary losses resulting from
Gupta’s tips, he ruled the agency was owed treble damages.  Permanent Bar  Rakoff said Gupta should be permanently barred from the
financial industry.  “His nearly unparalleled level of access to upper echelons
of corporate executives throughout the world creates the risk
that, notwithstanding his fall from grace, Gupta remains well-placed to repeat his misconduct in the future,” the judge
wrote.  Gary Naftalis , Gupta’s attorney at Kramer Levin Naftalis &
Frankel LLP, said in a telephone interview that Rakoff sent an
order to lawyers in the case last night imposing the penalty of
$13.9 million on Gupta. He declined to comment on Rakoff’s
order. Gupta has appealed his conviction and the fines, and
penalties may be vacated if his conviction is overturned.  “The sanctions imposed today send a clear message to board
members who are entrusted with protecting the confidences of the
companies they serve,” George Canellos, co-director of SEC
enforcement, said in a  statement . “If you abuse your position
by sharing confidential company information with friends and
business associates in exchange for private gain, you will be
prosecuted to the fullest extent by the SEC.”  Centerpiece Case  The case against Gupta, who was also a board member of
 Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  and American Airlines Inc., became a
centerpiece of a broader insider-trading crackdown by the SEC
and federal prosecutors and the  Federal Bureau of Investigation 
in  New York .  The investigations mainly targeted  hedge funds  trading on
confidential information. Gupta was the highest-profile
corporate figure ensnared in the probe.  Rajaratnam’s 2011 conviction for conspiracy and securities
fraud was upheld by a federal appeals court in New York. The
hedge fund co-founder was ordered to pay a record $92.8 million
penalty in the SEC matter, and to forfeit more than
$53.8 million and pay a $10 million fine in the criminal case.  Rajaratnam, 56, is serving an 11-year sentence at the
Federal Medical Center Devens in Ayer, Massachusetts.  Gupta’s appeal is U.S. v. Gupta, 12-4448, and the
Rajaratnam appeal is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 11-04416,  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the Second Circuit (New York).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington
at   jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in federal court in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 