-- IBM Contracts Most Expensive Since 2005 as Sales Slump
-- B y   L u   W a n g   a n d   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-07-17T15:42:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/ibm-contracts-most-expensive-since-2005-as-sales-slump.html
Options (IBM)  traders are paying the most
since 2005 to protect against stock swings in International
Business Machines Corp. relative to its peers on concern profit
will trail analyst estimates for a second quarter as sales drop.  Implied volatility for contracts with an exercise price
closest to the company’s stock was 1.44 times the Technology
Select Sector SPDR Fund, the highest since September 2005,
according to three-month data compiled by Bloomberg. IBM shares
have slumped 8.6 percent over the past three months, the most in
the Dow Jones Industrial Average.  While Chief Executive Officer Ginni Rometty has pushed the
company into faster-growing markets like data analysis and
repurchased shares, IBM is contending with sluggish demand for
hardware and consulting work. IBM  missed  earnings estimates in
April for the first time in eight years and will probably say
today that second-quarter revenue fell 2 percent, based on
analysts’ estimates tracked by Bloomberg.  “You’ve got to meet these earnings numbers, otherwise you
get penalized,” Edward Painvin, chief investment officer of
Chase Investment Counsel Corp., said by phone from
Charlottesville,  Virginia , on July 15. His firm oversees $500
million and doesn’t own IBM shares. “It’s difficult to do for a
name of this size with very, very little top line growth.”  Implied volatility for three-month IBM contracts has surged
51 percent from a January low, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The options gauge for the technology fund has risen
2.7 percent during the same period.  Mike Fay, a spokesman for Armonk, New York-based IBM,
declined to discuss the company’s earnings ahead of the report.  Earnings Season  IBM, the largest provider of computer services, may report
after the market close that sales during the three months ended
June slid 2 percent to $25.3 billion, according to the  average
estimate  from 20 analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Excluding some
items, profit was probably $3.78 a share, an 8 percent increase
after an expansion of more than 10 percent from 2010 to 2012.  The results may include costs tied to a $1 billion
restructuring plan that involved cutting thousands of employees.
The company said in April that asset sales later in the year
would help offset the cost. At the time, IBM was in talks to
sell parts of its server division to Lenovo Group Ltd.,
according to people familiar with the discussions. The
negotiations broke down in early May due to disagreements over
price, one person said.  Without a large divestiture, IBM doesn’t have a gain to
make up for the restructuring charge,  Ben Reitzes , an analyst
for Barclays Plc, said in a July 1 note to investors.  ‘Honeymoon Over’  The options market is  implying  IBM will move 4.8 percent
after the release, compared with an average post-result change
of 3.7 percent since 2006, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Investors will use the latest earnings to judge the
progress of Rometty, who took charge at the beginning of last
year, said Josh Olson, an analyst with Edward Jones & Co. She
has shaken up management of IBM’s struggling hardware division,
spent $2 billion on a cloud-computing business and cut jobs
globally in a bid to refocus the company.  “It is a key quarter,” Olson said. “The honeymoon year
is over. We’re 18 months into her leadership now, and the days
of giving her the benefit of the doubt are behind us.”  The slowdown in developing countries like  China , which
accounted for 80 percent of IBM’s revenue expansion from 2010 to
2012, is a threat to the company’s growth, according to Bill Shope, an analyst with Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in New York. The
stock was up 1.2 percent this year through yesterday, trailing
an 11 percent rally in the Technology Select Sector SPDR Fund.  Stagnation Period  “IBM’s growth markets have a reached a period of
stagnation,” Shope wrote in a July 9 note, cutting the stock’s
rating to neutral from buy. “The company appears to be going
through a challenging period that may limit operational earnings
upside and produce more quarterly volatility than investors have
been accustomed to.”  A broader technology slump may make it tough for IBM to
deliver on its goals, said Ivan Feinseth, chief investment
officer at Tigress Financial Partners LLC in New York.  Accenture
Plc (ACN) , the world’s largest technology-consulting company after
IBM, last month forecast sales that missed analysts’ estimates.  “There are factors way beyond their control that make it
very difficult,” Feinseth said. “There’s no really compelling
driver to own the stock right now.”  Management Change  After April’s earnings miss, IBM reassigned Rod Adkins, the
head of its hardware division, to a new role, replacing him with
Tom Rosamilia, who had been overseeing corporate strategy.  Last month, IBM agreed to buy SoftLayer Technologies Inc.,
a cloud-computing storage provider that will help the company
compete with Amazon.com Inc. The price was about $2 billion,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  Acquisitions last year totaled $3.7 billion for 11
companies, including $1.3 billion for Kenexa Corp., a company
that uses social networking to help businesses handle human
resources and recruiting. IBM announced $5 billion of stock
buybacks and boosted its quarterly dividend by 12 percent to 95
cents a share in April.  “They’re well positioned in the long term,” Kim Forrest,
a Pittsburgh-based analyst at Fort Pitt Capital Group Inc.,
which oversees $1.3 billion including IBM shares, said in a July
11 phone interview. “They have concentrated their efforts in
high-margin businesses. Their focus on big data is a great
strategy for them to get the IT consumer’s attention. And I
really do believe they can deliver on these products.”  IBM Valuations  The stock slump in the past three months has pushed IBM’s
 valuations  close to the lowest level since 2010. The shares
traded at 12.5 times reported earnings in the past 12 months,
compared with the multiple of 16.1 for technology companies in
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange  Volatility Index (VIX) , known
as the VIX, fell 2.5 percent to 14.06 at 11:35 a.m. in New York
today. Its European counterpart, the VStoxx Index, a measure of
Euro Stoxx 50 Index option prices, slid 3.9 percent to 18.49.  Options traders have boosted ownership of bearish
contracts. The ratio of outstanding puts relative to calls rose
18 percent from its 2013 low in April to 0.85-to-1 yesterday,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The market is trying to come to terms with whether this
was a one-time miss or a more serious longer term threat to the
business model,” Alec Levine, an equity-derivatives strategist
at Newedge Group SA in New York, said in an interview last week.
“There is real concern and the options trading reflects that
concern.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  