-- Lift the Ban on U.S. Oil Exports
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-07-17T22:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/lift-the-ban-on-u-s-oil-exports.html
The last time serious talk about
exporting oil was heard in  Washington , the  Soviet Union  still
loomed, the Reagan Revolution had yet to take place and the
 National Basketball Association  had an equitable distribution of
talent.  It was the 1970s, and with the Arab oil embargo a fresh
memory and fears that domestic drilling had peaked, Congress
instituted fuel-economy standards for cars, an energy-conservation program for consumer products and the Strategic
Petroleum Reserve. It also banned all exports of U.S. oil except
for small amounts to  Canada .  Four decades later, that ban is threatening to  put a damper 
on the shale-oil boom in the U.S., and Congress or the president
should find a way to reverse, or at least temporarily suspend,
it.  Consider how drastically the U.S. oil picture has changed.
Production has increased to  7.4 million  barrels a day from  5
million  in 2008, thanks to new methods of extracting oil from
deep rock using horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing, or
fracking. In the past year alone, these techniques have boosted
output by a million barrels a day.  At the same time, the U.S. has been  consuming less 
gasoline, jet fuel and other oil products. So, naturally,
 imports  have been falling. In 2012, net crude imports averaged
8.4 million barrels a day, down from 9.8 million in 2008, and by
next year, the U.S. Energy Information Administration expects
them to decline to 6.9 million. Much of this reduction has
comprised light, low-sulphur crude from the  Middle East  and
 Nigeria .  Here’s how the oil calculus has changed: Light, high-quality oil is precisely the sort of oil that is being harvested
via fracking in  North Dakota  and  Texas . In fact, within a couple
of years, U.S. production is expected to outstrip the domestic
industry’s capacity to refine it.  Why? Many facilities on the U.S. Gulf Coast are configured
to process heavy crude from  Venezuela ,  Mexico  and Canada. They
could switch to refining light crude, but then they would not
operate at full capacity.   Build new refineries, you say? Well, it’s prohibitively
expensive and difficult. Each costs billions of dollars and
takes several years to build.  The point is, unless some of the shale oil is exported, it
will be stranded, or simply left in the ground. And though to
some environmentalists that may sound like a tempting prospect,
it would not reduce global consumption of oil -- just the
consumption of U.S. oil. Lessening total use will take efforts
more directly targeted to that end, including programs to
develop renewable energy and efficiency and to put a price on
 carbon emissions .  By increasing exports even as it continues importing oil,
the U.S. can exercise maximum flexibility in world oil markets.
It can keep U.S. oil flowing, encouraging further exploration
and drilling. And it can help maintain relatively stable
gasoline prices, because these are largely determined by world
markets.  Under the restrictions passed in the 1970s, most U.S. crude
can be exported only if the U.S. Commerce Department grants an
export license based on a finding that it would be in the
“national interest.” Congress should invert this concept: Allow
exports without licenses, except in times of shortages or other
national emergencies.  If Congress seems inclined to sit on its hands, President
 Barack Obama  would do well to look into the possibility of
issuing a temporary blanket license, or licenses, to export oil
to nations with which the U.S. has free-trade agreements -- and
maybe even to nations that agree to cooperate with trade
sanctions against  Iran . The Commerce Department would still be
able to restrict exports in the event oil once again comes into
short supply.  As the oil industry anticipates reaching the limits of its
refining capacity, the possibility of exports is back in the
conversation in Washington. This time, the new market reality
should persuade policy makers to lift the ban.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 