-- Tiger Woods Signs Fourth Golf Endorsement Contract With Nike
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-07-18T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/tiger-woods-signs-fourth-golf-endorsement-contract-with-nike.html
Tiger Woods signed his fourth golf
endorsement agreement with  Nike Inc. (NKE) , the world’s largest
sporting-goods company.  Terms of the deal weren’t disclosed yesterday in an e-mailed statement from Nike, based in Beaverton, Oregon.  Mark Steinberg , Woods’s agent, said last month that he
expected the next contract to keep the 14-time major tournament
winner with the company for the rest of his career and leave him
as Nike’s highest-paid golf endorser. Steinberg didn’t return an
e-mail yesterday seeking additional comment.  “We are thrilled to continue our partnership with Tiger,”
Cindy Davis, president of Nike’s golf division, said in the
statement. “He is one of Nike’s most iconic athletes and has
played an integral part in Nike Golf’s growth since the very
beginning.”  Woods’s current agreement, signed in 2006, was set to
expire this year. The new contract was signed two weeks ago
during meetings in  Florida , according to ESPN, which first
reported the negotiations last month.  Woods, the No. 1 player in the Official World Golf Ranking,
and the sport’s other top players begin play today in the
British Open, golf’s third major championship of the year. The
tournament is being played at Muirfield in Gullane,  Scotland .  The 37-year-old Woods has endorsed Nike’s golf division
since turning professional in 1996 and re-signed with the
company in 2001 and 2006.  Nike Money  Woods’s agreement with Nike has been reported to be worth
as much as $20 million a year since he signed a five-year
contract in 2001, replacing an original $40 million agreement.  In March, Golf Digest magazine said Woods earned $77
million off the course in endorsements in 2012, while  Sports
Illustrated  reported Woods’s 2012 earnings at closer to $40
million. Steinberg has called such rankings inaccurate.  While Woods lost endorsement deals with AT&T Inc.,
 Accenture Plc (ACN)  and TAG Heuer watches following a marital scandal
in 2009, Nike remained by his side.  Woods has won four times on the U.S. PGA Tour this year,
finished fourth at the  Masters Tournament  in April and was 32nd
at the  U.S. Open  last month at Merion Golf Club. He hasn’t won a
major tournament since the 2008 U.S. Open.  In January, Northern Ireland’s Rory McIlroy joined Woods as
a Nike endorser after ending his five-year relationship with
Titleist.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  