-- Lilly Freezes Pay This Year for Executives, Workers
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-07-18T02:02:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/lilly-freezes-pay-this-year-for-executives-workers.html
Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) , the maker of an
experimental Alzheimer’s drug in late-stage testing, will freeze
pay this year for most workers, including  executives , a
spokesman said.  The pay freeze will save $400 million through 2016, said Ed Sagebiel, a spokesman for the Indianapolis-based company. Lilly
won’t give pay raises to executives, supervisors or most
workers. Some bonuses will also be reduced. The company had
38,350 workers in 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The drugmaker is reducing expenses and counting on
experimental Alzheimer’s and diabetes drugs to revive growth as
it loses revenue from  top products  to generic competitors.
Cymbalta, a depression pill that at $5 billion a year is the
drugmaker’s biggest seller, loses patent protection in December.
Zyprexa, an anti-psychotic, had peak sales of $5.03 billion in
2010, the year before it lost patent protection.  “This is a difficult, but necessary decision,” Sagebiel
said in an e-mail. “While we remain confident in our future, we
continue to face the most significant challenges in our history.  Lilly expects a 20 percent reduction in revenue in 2014
because of the expiration of the Cymbalta and Evista patents in
the U.S., he said. Evista, used in the treatment of osteoporosis
as well as  breast cancer , loses protection next year. It
generated more than $1 billion in 2012.  ‘Tough Choices’  ‘‘This action is necessary to withstand the impact of
upcoming patent expirations and to support the launch of our
large phase III pipeline,’’ Chief Executive Officer  John Lechleiter , 59, said in a letter to employees today, a copy of
which was obtained by Bloomberg. ‘‘The current situation
requires us to take the appropriate action now to secure our
company’s future. We can’t allow ourselves to let up and fail to
make the tough choices.”  Lechleiter hasn’t received a pay raise since 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company is scheduled to  report  second-quarter earnings
on July 24. Lilly shares fell less than 1 percent to $50.67 at
the close in New York. The company has gained 2.7 percent this
year, compared with a 21 percent increase in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Pharmaceuticals Index of  13 drugmakers .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  