-- Time Warner Names CFO Martin to Lead Turner Broadcasting
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-07-17T17:16:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/time-warner-names-cfo-martin-to-lead-turner-broadcasting.html
Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  said Chief
Financial Officer  John Martin  will take over as head of its
Turner Broadcasting unit, assuming command over cable networks
CNN, TNT and TBS.  Martin will start his new role in 2014, replacing Phil
Kent, who will stay on as chairman, Time Warner said today in a
statement. The New York-based company said it will name Martin’s
successor in a matter of weeks.  Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Bewkes is moving his
lieutenants into key posts as the company evaluates possible
successors in anticipation of the end of his employment
agreement in 2017, when he’ll be 65. In January, Bewkes named
Kevin Tsujihara to lead the company’s Warner Bros. film and TV
studio, ending a two-year contest among a number of Warner
executives to succeed Barry Meyer.  A few months earlier, Bewkes hired Jeffrey Zucker to lead
the ailing  CNN  after then-President Jim Walton said he would be
stepping down, and in September, he named Richard Plepler head
of  HBO .  During a breakfast meeting at the Cannes Lions festival in
 France  last month, Bewkes asked Kent what he wanted to do, since
his contract was due to expire by the end of next year, Kent
said in an interview.  Different Executive  “I told him I didn’t want to extend it,” said Kent, who
has been CEO of the cable network company since 2003. “I loved
my job, but I’ve been doing it a long time and it was the right
time to leave. The suggestion of putting in John made the
decision even easier for me.  ‘‘I’m not in the executive-perpetuation business,” said
Kent, 58.  Turner will account for more than half of Time Warner’s
 annual sales  once the company spins off magazine unit Time Inc.
later this year, he said, requiring a different kind of
executive to lead the broadcaster.  “The lines between Turner and Time Warner have blurred,”
he explained. “Turner will soon drive the majority of
 shareholder value  for Time Warner, and that needs a different
kind of CEO with different strengths.”  Martin, 46, who has been a regular presence at investor
conferences and on earnings conference calls, would make an
ideal executive for Turner, according to Kent.  Martin, who has a master’s degree from  Columbia
University ’s business school, first joined Time Warner in 1993
and later rose to become CFO in 2008.  Time Warner rose less than 1 percent to $61.68 at 12:46
p.m. in New York. The shares have gained 28 percent this year
before today.  Kent said he hasn’t thought about what he plans to do after
next year.  “I will not figure that out until I stop doing this, and
I’ve still got a lot of work to do here,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  