-- IMF Calls for UK Credit Measures as BOE Stimulus Weakens
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-07-17T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/imf-calls-for-u-k-credit-measures-as-boe-stimulus-loses-power.html
The  International Monetary Fund  said
U.K. authorities need to do more to boost credit and strengthen
banks as monetary stimulus by the  Bank of England  may have only
a limited effect on the recovery.  “ Monetary policy  will need to remain accommodative, but
expectations of its effects should be tempered,” the
Washington-based fund said in a report on Britain yesterday.
“An expeditious repair of bank balance sheets is imperative,
along with an elaboration of a clear strategy” by the
government for the sale of its stakes in  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc  and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , it said.  While Britain’s economy is showing some signs of recovery,
the IMF said it continues to be “slow and fragile.” It
recommended that in addition to further  gilt purchases , the BOE
could provide “reassurance that policy rates will remain low
until recovery reaches full momentum,” something that new
Governor  Mark Carney  has already begun at the central bank.  “Notwithstanding recent developments, the U.K. economy
remains a long way from a strong and sustainable recovery,”
Krishna Srinivasan, who led the IMF review, said on a conference
call with reporters. “The economy faces significant headwinds,
notably from private-sector deleveraging and a weak external
outlook. The risk of hysteresis is still there.”  The BOE’s Monetary Policy Committee kept its  bond-purchase
program  unchanged at 375 billion pounds ($570 billion) on July 4
and its  benchmark interest rate  at a record low of 0.5 percent.
Minutes released yesterday showed Carney, presiding over his
first policy-setting meeting as governor, united officials after
a split this year on whether more stimulus was needed.  ‘Skeptical’ View  Many IMF executive directors “agreed that monetary policy
should remain accommodative and further efforts should be made
to ease credit conditions,” the fund said. “Many other
directors were skeptical about the effectiveness of additional
policy easing and called for a careful analysis of costs and
benefits of further measures.”  The IMF said that in addition to considering further
purchases of gilts, the BOE “could provide assurance to
households and investors that policy rates will be kept low
until the recovery reaches full momentum.” The central bank is
currently reviewing the merits of so-called forward guidance and
will report in August.  The fund also said Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  should take advantage of the recent improvement in the
economy and offset the drag from his planned near-term fiscal
tightening. The IMF said the government should bring forward
 capital investment  and focus on policies that support growth.
Risks from the government deviating from its announced plans are
“low,” Srinivasan said.  Help to Buy  Although Osborne’s Help-to-Buy program, announced in March
to help the housing market, could boost demand, the IMF
reiterated its view that the measure could generate “adverse
effects” by bolstering  house prices  that would reduce access to
property.  “While we can and will take nothing for granted, the U.K.
is moving from rescue to recovery: the economy is growing; the
deficit and unemployment are falling,” the Treasury said in a
statement provided by a spokesman in an e-mail. “We will
continue to confront head-on problems that have built up over
many years with a clear and credible macroeconomic strategy
consisting of monetary activism to help keep interest rates low,
structural reforms to make growth more balanced and fiscal
responsibility to deal with our deficit.”  Yesterday’s report is part of the IMF’s annual Article IV
consultation on the U.K. economy, and the discussions for the
review took place in  London  in May. The IMF took into account
more recent economic data, Srinivasan said.  The IMF said on July 9 that U.K. gross domestic product
will increase 0.9 percent this year and 1.5 percent in 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  