-- Tin Exports From Indonesia to Jump 33% as Purity Rule Eased
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i
-- 2013-07-17T09:32:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/tin-exports-from-indonesia-to-jump-33-as-purity-rule-eased-1-.html
Tin exports by Indonesia, the
world’s largest supplier, may exceed earlier estimates by as
much as 33 percent after the government eased a quality rule,
according to the country’s top producer. Futures dropped.  Sales will probably total 100,000 metric tons this year as
the amended regulation will allow smelters to boost shipments,
said Agung Nugroho, corporate secretary at PT  Timah (TINS) , which
represented about 30 percent of the nation’s exports in 2012.
That compares with a low of 75,000 tons estimated by President
Director Sukrisno on June 18 and is little changed from 98,817
tons last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Tin tumbled into a  bear market  in May on concern demand may
falter in  China , the biggest user, and as Indonesian producers
expanded exports before the new quality standards took effect on
July 1. The rule was eased three days before that date, raising
the maximum lead content and removing limits on some other
metals. Tin content was kept at 99.9 percent, up from 99.85
percent. The new levels are sensible and will help private
smelters, said analyst Peter Kettle.  “I don’t think the revised quality regulation will cause
much of a problem,” said Kettle, research manager at ITRI Ltd.,
a  St. Albans , England-based group whose members represented 60
percent of global output last year. After the “rise in exports
in the first-half it is getting harder to see a fall in the full
year,” he said in an e-mail on July 10.  Export Surge  Shipments of ingots and solder jumped 20 percent to
11,111.4 tons in June from May, data from the Trade Ministry
showed July 9. That was the most since December 2011, and higher
than the 9,646.7 tons in June 2012, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. First-half exports rose 16 percent to 55,011 tons
compared with a year earlier.  The median of estimates from executives at seven
independent smelters in  Indonesia  compiled by Bloomberg still
showed a 20 percent drop in sales this year to 79,000 tons, the
same as the median in a survey published on June 27 and the
lowest level in seven years, as producers may not be able to
comply fully with even the modified rules.  “The new regulations may still restrict companies’ ability
to maintain exports at recent levels,” Stephen Briggs, a
London-based analyst at BNP Paribas SA, said July 10. “The
easing of the rules may reduce the upward pressure on the tin
price, but as I expect the market to remain in deficit, I still
expect a higher price in the months ahead.”  Global Deficit  Futures for delivery in three months declined 0.4 percent
to $19,378 a ton on the London Metal Exchange today. Tin, down
17 percent this year, is the worst performer on the LME after
nickel. Demand for the metal, used in soldering and packaging,
will exceed output this year, with ITRI estimating a shortage of
4,000 tons and Barclays Plc expecting a fourth year of deficit.  While maintaining the increase in tin purity to 99.9
percent, Indonesia tripled the maximum lead content to 300 parts
per million from 100 parts per million and removed limits on
other metals including cadmium and aluminum in a revised rule
signed by Trade Minister  Gita Wirjawan  on June 28. Iron content
was kept unchanged at a maximum 50 parts per million.  “We regret this as it means we’re reducing our quality
again,” said Nugroho of Timah, the world’s third-largest
producer. Exports of other tin products will increase because of
a new physical trading rule, he said on July 8, referring to
part of the regulation requiring ingots to be traded in the
local market from Aug. 30 before they are shipped. For other tin
products the rule is effective from Jan. 1, 2015.  Trading Rules  The trading requirement increases costs, such as
warehousing and trading fees, said M.B. Gunawan, president
director at Pangkalpinang, Bangka Belitung-based smelter PT
Stanindo Inti Perkasa, in a phone interview.  “I don’t understand the reason for this, if we can trade
directly with our buyers, why do we need to trade through a
bourse?” Gunawan said July 9. “It’s also risky, as prices can
be very volatile. We’re comfortable with the way we do business
but now the government is asking us to change that.”  Many smelters are halting shipments due to changes in the
impurity levels and a lack of clarity on the trading rule,
Gunawan said. “We need time to digest this.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  