-- India Bill Sale Fails as Money Rates Jump Most in a Year on RBI
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-07-17T10:18:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/india-bill-sale-fails-as-money-rates-jump-most-in-a-year-on-rbi.html
India  failed to sell treasury bills
at a weekly auction after the central bank tightened policy for
the first time since 2011, driving up interbank funding costs by
the most in more than a year.  The  Reserve Bank  of India, which held the sale, rejected
bids worth 293 billion rupees ($4.9 billion) received for a
combined 120 billion rupees of 91- and 182-day notes offered, it
said in an e-mailed statement. The  overnight  interbank borrowing
rate in Mumbai surged 170 basis points to 8 percent today after
the RBI increased on July 15 two of its  interest rates  by 2
percentage points each, while keeping the benchmark  repurchase 
rate unchanged, to arrest a slide in the rupee.  The failure of the bill sale follows an offering of bonds
yesterday by state governments, where the borrowers met only 26
percent of an 86 billion rupee target. With this week’s rate
increases, RBI Governor Duvvuri Subbarao joins policy makers
from  Brazil  to  China  in reining in money-market liquidity to
stem currency losses and ensure stability in the financial
system. The rupee has lost 8.7 percent since March 31 in  Asia ’s
worst performance.  “Short-term rates are at an elevated level, so bids may
have been at higher yields than what the government was
comfortable with,” said N.S. Venkatesh, the Mumbai-based head
of treasury at  IDBI Bank Ltd. (IDBI)  “The market moves have been a
knee-jerk reaction to the RBI’s steps, and I think within a week
or so things should settle down, when the market would have a
clearer perspective of how liquidity will be.”  India last sold 91-day bills at 7.48 percent on July 10 and
182-day notes at 7.60 percent on July 3.  ‘Shocked Market’  The  yield  on India’s 10-year benchmark bond has jumped 50
basis points in the past two days to 8.07 percent, more than
erasing declines since the start of the year. The rate, now up
two basis basis points in 2013, will drop to about 7.90 percent
in 10 days, and investors should buy now to gain from that,
Venkatesh predicted, adding that the U.S. may not start paring
stimulus before October.  The RBI increased the marginal standing facility rate and
the  bank rate  to 10.25 percent from 8.25 percent, according to
the July 15 statement. It also plans to sell 120 billion rupees
of government debt at an open-market auction tomorrow to drain
cash. In addition, the bank said it will cap its daily fund
injections via repurchase contracts, meant to help lenders meet
shortages, to about 750 billion rupees, compared with an average
of 880 billion rupees availed by banks this year.  “The measures shocked the rates market,” analysts at
Standard Chartered Plc including Mumbai-based Samiran Chakraborty wrote in a research note yesterday. “The liquidity
deficit will likely persist, implying elevated overnight rates
and funding costs for government bond investors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  