-- India Rupee Rises to Two-Week High After RBI Moves; Bonds Fall
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-07-17T05:11:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/india-rupee-rises-to-two-week-high-after-rbi-moves-bonds-fall.html
India ’s rupee advanced to the
highest level in more than two weeks after the central bank
raised two interest rates to support the currency. The benchmark
government bond due 2022 fell for a fourth day.  The Reserve Bank of India increased the marginal standing
facility rate and the bank rate to 10.25 percent from 8.25
percent, according to a July 15 statement. The monetary
authority said also that it will sell 120 billion rupees ($2
billion) of bonds maturing between 2017 and 2030 through open-market operations tomorrow. The measures will stay in place at
least until September, when the central bank may get clarity on
when the Federal Reserve plans to pare its stimulus program,
according to  Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd. (KMB)   The RBI is looking to “contain foreign-exchange volatility
by squeezing out liquidity,” said  Indranil Pan , an economist at
Kotak Mahindra Bank in Mumbai. “Short-end rates are likely to
rise to at least 10.25 percent, leading to a transmission to
other interest rates in the economy.”  The rupee gained 0.2 percent to 59.2250 per dollar as of
10:06 a.m. in Mumbai, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. It touched 59.0450, the strongest level
since July 1, after rising yesterday by the most this month.
One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves in the
exchange rate used to price options, climbed four basis points,
or 0.04 percentage point, to 12.53 percent.  The rupee sank to a record 61.2125 on July 8 after the Fed
signaled it may reduce asset purchases, potentially damping the
flow of funds to  emerging markets . Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
will appear before the House Financial Services Committee today
and senators tomorrow to present the semi-annual monetary policy
report.  Lending Cap  The RBI said it will cap the amount it will lend to
commercial banks through the daily repurchase window to around
750 billion rupees from today. This compares with an average 872
billion rupees borrowed each day this year through July 15,
according to central bank data.  “These measures should not be read as a prelude to any
policy rate changes,” Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram
told reporters in Jaipur yesterday. “These measures in no way
affect our commitment to growth.”  The steps are being taken to quell excessive speculation
and reduce volatility and stabilize the rupee, he added.  The yield on the 8.15 percent bonds due June 2022 rose five
basis points to 8.25 percent, according to the central bank’s
trading system. The rate surged 52 basis points yesterday, the
biggest yield increase for a benchmark 10-year security since
January 2009.  Special Repo  The RBI will conduct a special three-day repo to add as
much as 250 billion rupees at 10.25 percent so banks can meet
the liquidity needs of mutual funds, the monetary authority said
in a  statement  today. The facility will be temporary and details
will be provided later, it added.  India’s government has proposed easing foreign-direct
investment limits in some industries as part of measures to draw
capital inflows and revive economic growth. Among the decisions
taken at a meeting led by Prime Minister Manmohan Singh was a
plan to allow overseas investors to own all of a phone carrier,
Commerce Minister Anand Sharma told reporters yesterday. The
changes would also permit foreign investment in defense
production exceeding the current 26 percent cap if India gains
access to modern technology.  “The measures are good in the long term, but may not
provide any dollars in the short term,” said Samiran Chakraborty, an economist at Standard Chartered Plc in Mumbai.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards fell 0.05 percent to
60.46 per dollar, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Offshore non-deliverable contracts dropped 0.2 percent to 60.49. Forwards are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  