-- Hindustan Unilever Leads Indian Consumer Stocks With 10% Surge
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2013-07-17T13:21:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/hindustan-unilever-leads-indian-consumer-stocks-with-10-surge.html
Hindustan Unilever Ltd. (HUVR) ,  India ’s
biggest consumer goods company, surged 10 percent to a record,
leading a rally among local peers.  The stock rose 61.95 rupees to 685.05 rupees in Mumbai
trading, and was the  biggest  gainer on the benchmark S&P BSE
Sensex index.  Dabur India Ltd. (DABUR)  added 4.2 percent to 165.65
rupees, while  ITC Ltd. (ITC) ,  Asia ’s second-largest maker of
cigarettes by market value, rose 2.3 percent to 368.35 rupee.  Some investors may be switching to consumer stocks from
sectors like banking and financial services, which are more
likely to be hurt by slowing economic growth, said Suniil Pachisia, vice president at Pratibhuti Viniyog Ltd. Two weeks
ago, parent Unilever closed its offer to buy back shares from
investors at 600 rupees apiece in a failed bid to raise its
stake in the unit to 75 percent.  “The shares are a darling among investors and that’s one
reason why the parent’s buyback offer failed to meet its
target,” Alex Mathews, head of research at  Geojit BNP Paribas
Financial Services Ltd. (GBNP)  said. “In uncertain times, Hindustan
Unilever has been a great defensive stock.”  The company doesn’t comment on stock price movements,
spokesman Prasad Pradhan said when contacted on his phone.  The London- and Rotterdam-based Unilever ended up holding
about two-thirds of the Indian unit after the share offer as
some investors chose not to sell due to a tax burden and the
lack of alternative investment opportunities in the consumer
sector, Abhijeet Kundu, an analyst at Antique Stock Broking Ltd.
in Mumbai, said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  