-- Investors Look to Small Business Hiring Gauges: EcoPulse
-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 2013-07-17T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/insperity-intuit-provide-gauge-for-small-business-hiring.html
Investors are looking to  Insperity (NSP) 
Inc. and  Intuit (INTU)  Inc. to see if small-business jobs are keeping
pace with broader measures of U.S. labor demand.  Intuit, maker of financial and tax-preparation software,
will release on July 30 its monthly small-business employment
index, which measures hiring at companies with fewer than 20
workers. Insperity, which offers human-resource services such as
payroll processing to small- and mid-sized enterprises, will
report on Aug. 1 the average number of work-site employees paid
per month by its customers.  These data offer an “accurate handle” on employment
trends at small- and medium-sized businesses, said Walter “Bucky” Hellwig, who helps manage $17 billion in Birmingham,
 Alabama , at BB&T Wealth Management. In conjunction with other
indicators from the private sector, investors can use the
numbers to identify changes in hiring more quickly than relying
on government data alone, he said.  “It’s important to follow this industry because
historically, that’s where most of the job growth comes from,”
Hellwig said. Small businesses have a “leading edge” because
they have more flexibility to add headcount quickly when the
economy improves, he said. Amid recent gains in total payrolls,
“any divergence from that would call for further
investigation.”  Adding Workers  U.S. employers added 195,000 workers in June, the third
consecutive month when gains exceeded the median estimate of
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News . This capped 12
consecutive months above 100,000 -- the longest such streak
since the 33 months ended in May 2000. The Labor Department will
announce July figures on Aug. 2.  Intuit’s small-business employment index rose to 95.1 in
June -- the highest since 2009 -- from 95 in May, according to
data from the  Mountain View , California company.  “These smallest employers are important to the economy as
they comprise 87 percent of the total U.S. private-employer base
and employ 19.4 million people,” Intuit said in a description
of its index.  Insperity forecasts that its customers’ average number of
work-site employees paid per month will increase by as much as
2.2 percent to 127,000 in the second quarter from 124,219 a year
ago. The Kingwood, Texas-based company processes payrolls for
between 5,000 and 6,000 businesses with an average headcount of
“slightly less than 20 people,” so its report is “good for
gleaning broader conclusions” about the pace of hiring, said
Tobey Sommer, an analyst in Atlanta at SunTrust Robinson
Humphrey Inc.  Expanding Activity  Insperity also will release its  earnings  and the results of
its quarterly small-business confidence survey on Aug. 1. Owners
were “showing a willingness to hire more employees amidst signs
of expanding business activity,” the company said April 29 in
releasing the previous survey.  Analysts and investors monitor both quantitative and
qualitative measures of small-business labor demand, especially
because “there hasn’t been a uniform trend” across a variety
of metrics, Sommer said. “We’re still muddling forward.”  Hiring among these companies “is a challenging number to
effectively capture,” so using a combination of data helps
provide an “overall sense of what’s happening,” said Timothy McHugh, an analyst in Chicago at William Blair & Co.  Falling Confidence  The  National Federation of Independent Business ’s optimism
index decreased to 93.5 in June from 94.4 in May, a one-year
high. This showed that sentiment remained in “tepid
territory,” the group said in a July 9 statement.  CBIZ Inc. (CBZ)  echoed this, as “some small-business owners are
still tepid about their growth prospects,” Philip Noftsinger,
president of CBIZ Payroll Services, said in a July 5 statement.
The company’s small-business employment index -- a barometer for
hiring trends at companies with 300 or fewer workers -- fell by
0.21 percent in June from the previous month after a 1.91
percent increase in May, according to figures from the
Cleveland-based company.  Paychex Inc. (PAYX) ’s checks per payroll is another useful
macroeconomic barometer, tracking changes in employment at the
Rochester, New York-based company’s customers, McHugh said.
Paychex, which processes payrolls and provides other human-resource services for small- and medium-sized businesses, said
June 26 that the number rose 0.9 percent in the three months
ended May 31, though the “trend is definitely towards
moderation,” Chief Financial Officer Efrain Rivera said on a
June 27 conference call.  Below Estimates  Paychex also reported fiscal fourth-quarter revenue on June
26 of $585.3 million, falling short of the $586.2 million
average analysts’ estimate, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. For fiscal 2014, sales are projected to be about
$2.45 billion, based on the outlook provided by the company.
That missed the consensus estimate of almost $2.47 billion.
Revenue for the fiscal year ended May 31 totaled $2.33 billion.  Paychex shares lagged behind the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index by 4.3 percentage points on June 27, though the stock has
rebounded to lead the broader market by about 2.8 percentage
points since then. This shows that investor sentiment is
improving despite the company’s sales outlook, said Jim Stellakis, founder and director of research at Greenwich,
Connecticut-based research company Technical Alpha Inc. and a
chartered market technician.  Slow Recovery  Some “signs of life” that a slow recovery is under way
would bode well for Paychex, as industries hardest hit during
the recession -- such as  construction  -- are now in the early
stages of a rebound, McHugh said. He maintains an outperform
recommendation on Paychex in part because it would “benefit
from a recovery in the small-business hiring environment.”  Shares of Insperity have outpaced the  S&P 500  by  13
percentage points  since April 26, the trading day before it
announced first-quarter results. Intuit’s stock is leading the
market by about  12 percentage points  since May 21, when it
announced fiscal third-quarter earnings.  Some obstacles remain for employment gains at small
businesses. Many of the jobs they create are part-time
positions, which could be exacerbated by regulations related to
the Affordable Care Act, said  Lawrence Creatura , a Rochester,
New York-based fund manager at  Federated Investors Inc. (FII) , which
oversees about $380 billion. Employers trying to bypass the
government mandate to provide full-time workers with health
insurance may split one 40-hour-a-week job into two 20-hour
positions, he said.  Declining Usefulness  “A job’s not what a job used to be,” which could reduce
the usefulness of data he previously surveyed, Creatura said.
“There may be more paychecks being issued, but that’s not
necessarily a symptom that small business is thriving.”  President  Barack Obama ’s administration announced July 2
that it will delay the employer mandate until 2015, giving
companies with 50 or more workers another year to plan for these
changes. This postponement pushed out the sequence of events
that’s making it difficult for business owners to estimate labor
costs, Creatura said.  The  Federal Reserve ’s policy-making Open Market Committee
noted concerns among some employers, particularly smaller ones,
about the implications of the new regulations, according to the
minutes of its June 18-19 meeting released July 10.  While McHugh says companies may wait until next year to
take actions such as splitting full-time jobs, Hellwig said data
from Paychex and Insperity could show whether the process has
already begun. That’s why any evidence of a slowdown would be
particularly disconcerting, Hellwig said, adding that investors
would be wise to monitor comments from company executives about
underlying demand.  “We still need to look at numbers like these to help build
the fundamental case as to whether economic and employment
growth are self-sustaining,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in  New York  at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Feld at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  