-- Intel’s Sales Forecast Trails Estimates as PCs Lose Favor
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-07-18T20:05:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/intel-sales-forecast-falls-short-of-some-estimates-on-pc-slump.html
Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s largest
semiconductor maker, forecast third-quarter sales that may fall
short of some analysts’ estimates as a slump in the personal-computer market erodes its largest business.  Revenue in the current period will be $13.5 billion, plus
or minus $500 million, the  Santa Clara , California-based company
said yesterday in a statement. Analysts on average had predicted
sales of $13.7 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Intel shares dropped 3.8 percent.  The company reported its fourth straight revenue decline in
the second quarter as consumers shunned the PCs that provide the
company with most of its sales, opting instead for smartphones
and tablets to get online. To halt the slide and reignite
growth, Intel needs to persuade more phone and tablet makers to
start using its processors, said Michael Shinnick, a  fund
manager  at Salt Lake City-based Wasatch Advisors Inc.  “There is no debate that the traditional PC is in secular
decline,” said Shinnick, whose firm owns Intel shares because
of its ability to generate cash for dividends and share
repurchases. “Can they get share in mobile devices?”  The  stock  fell to $23.24 at the close in  New York . The
stock has gained 13 percent this year, compared with a 27
percent advance by the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index.  Based on Intel’s forecast, third-quarter revenue will be
little changed from $13.5 billion a year ago.  Annual Sales  For 2013, the company said sales will be “approximately
flat” compared with last year. That brings it in line with
analysts, who on  average  had estimated sales would be $53.5
billion. Intel had projected an annual revenue percentage gain
in the low single digits.  Intel expects the macro economy to improve in the second
half of the year, bolstering demand for new server chips,  Chief
Financial Officer Stacy Smith said in an interview.  Like market researchers and analysts, Intel doesn’t see
traditional PC demand rebounding. Its future growth hinges on
how well new products aimed at phones, tablets and smaller
computers are received, said Smith.  “You’re going to see the traditional segment falling and
you’re going to see some of these new categories growing fast,”
he said. “Our product line now spans across all these different
devices so we can participate in all of the segments that are
growing. For us it’s really all about the product cycle.”  The company also reduced its budget for new plants and
equipment by $1 billion, to a total of $11 billion, plus or
minus $500 million.  Net Income  Intel’s second-quarter net income fell 29 percent to $2
billion, or 39 cents a share, from $2.83 billion, or 54 cents,
in the same quarter a year earlier. Sales fell 5.1 percent to
$12.8 billion, Intel said in the statement. Analysts on average
had estimated earnings of 39 cents on sales of $12.9 billion.  Intel’s PC-chip group, its largest division, had sales of
$8.1 billion, down 7.5 percent from a year earlier. The company
was unable to compensate for that decline with an increase of
less than 1 percent in server-chip sales, to $2.7 billion.  Yesterday’s earnings announcement was the first for Chief
Executive Officer Brian Krzanich, who succeeded  Paul Otellini  in
May. Krzanich has said Intel needs to speed up its efforts to
win more orders from makers of phones and tablets. The company
ended the first quarter with a 6 percent share in tablets,
according to  Strategy Analytics .  Intel supplied processors for 9 out of every 10 PC-chip-based servers sold in the first quarter, according to IDC Corp.
That compares with market share of less than 1 percent in
smartphone processors, Strategy Analytics estimates.  Earnings Season  Intel’s results come at the start of two weeks of earnings
reports from the largest U.S. technology companies. The
chipmaker’s position in PCs and servers make its earnings a
closely watched indicator of demand for consumer and business
hardware. Also reporting yesterday, International Business
Machines Corp., the largest computer-services company, topped
estimates with its second-quarter earnings and raised its
forecast for the year after cutting costs and buying back
shares.  Signs from the second quarter so far haven’t been positive.
Global PC shipments fell 10.9 percent to 76 million in the
period, the fifth consecutive quarterly drop, market researcher
Gartner Inc. said last week. Sales slid from a year earlier in
all regions, including a 1.4 percent drop in the U.S.  Seeking Growth  Intel’s new line of processors and an update to the Windows
8 operating system from Microsoft Corp. might not be enough to
revive growth in the second half, said Alex Gauna, an analyst at
JMP Securities in  San Francisco .  “I think things will continue to be weak,” said Gauna,
who has the equivalent of a hold  rating  on Intel’s shares.
“They might not get worse, but I haven’t seen the path to how
things get better.”  Gross margin , or the percentage of sales left after
subtracting production costs, was 58 percent in the second
quarter. That measure of profit will be about 61 percent in the
current period, Intel said, compared with a 60.6 percent average
analyst estimate. Gross margin will be about 59 percent for
2013, Intel said. It had earlier predicted about 60 percent.  The company’s biggest customers include PC makers  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  Dell Inc. (DELL) , which together contribute 29 percent
of revenue, according to a Bloomberg  supply-chain analysis .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  