-- Interior Chief Defends Federal Fracking Regulations
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-07-17T17:13:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/interior-chief-defends-federal-fracking-regulations.html
U.S. Interior Secretary Sally Jewell
drew on her experience as a former oil-industry engineer to
defend proposed federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing for
oil and gas on publicly owned land.  Testifying to the House Natural Resources committee today,
Jewell faced criticisms from Republican lawmakers, who said the
department’s proposed rule on fracturing, or fracking, will lead
to unnecessary production delays.  Fracking, in which water, sand and chemicals are shot
underground to break apart rocks and free trapped gas, has
soared as new technologies have opened up more and deeper
resources of oil and gas. Interior’s rules would set minimum
standards for well construction, disclosure of chemicals and
water management when fracking is used on federal lands.  Lawmakers told Jewell that state regulators best know the
local geology and the federal government should leave the
regulation to them.  “The states vary in their understanding of hydraulic
fracturing,” Jewell said. Some states, such as  Wyoming , have
strong rules, while “in many cases, the state rules don’t exist
or are out of date.”  Further, no matter where a well is drilled, “having
well-bore integrity is essential,” she said, using the
technical term for cementing and casing wells to prevent leaks.  Jewell also drew on her engineering experience at Mobil Oil
Co., now part of  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , to answer Representative
Alan Lowenthal, a California Democrat, who complained that the
Interior proposal relies on the industry’s FracFocus website for
disclosure of fracking chemicals.  FracFocus “is imperfect, but it’s being updated,” she
said. If it’s not providing adequate disclosure, “we will look
for other ways to do it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  