-- Lira Falls First Day in 3 as Fed Spurs Bets of Smaller Rate Rise
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-07-17T09:46:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/lira-falls-first-day-in-3-as-fed-spurs-bets-of-smaller-rate-rise.html
The lira weakened for the first time
in three days and bond yields rose as investors bet on a
smaller-than-expected increase in  interest rates  next week.  The currency depreciated as one-year  interest-rate swaps , a
gauge of future interest-rate expectations, plunged the most in
seven years. Twenty-two of 24 emerging-market currencies were
either unchanged or lower against the dollar before Federal
Reserve Chairman Ben S.Bernanke delivers a semi-annual monetary
policy report to  U.S. Congress  at 8:30 a.m. in  Washington  today.
Turkey’s central bank said on July 15 “a measured step to widen
the interest-rate corridor” will be on the agenda at its
meeting on July 23.  “The hope/expectation is that the Turkish central bank
lift the lending rate by at least 100 basis points, which will
send a positive message to the market,” Tim Ash, the chief
emerging-markets economist at  Standard Bank Plc (STAN)  in  London , wrote
in an e-mailed note today. “The fear is that if Bernanke gives
a dovish commentary this week, the central bank might be modest
in its move in terms of the lending rate.”  The lira lost 0.3 percent to 1.9267 by 11:11 a.m. in
Istanbul, the biggest decline on a closing basis since July 5.
Yields on two-year benchmark notes advanced 11 basis points, or
0.11 percentage point, to 8.96 percent, increasing for the first
time in four days.  One-year swaps slumped 116 basis points to 8.10 percent in
the steepest dive since August 2006, retreating from as high as
9.73 percent reached on July 15.  Bernanke said on June 19 the Fed may start slowing its
unprecedented bond-buying program this year and end it entirely
in mid-2014 if the economy achieves sustainable growth. The Fed
purchases $85 billion of Treasuries and mortgage debt each month
as part of its latest round of quantitative easing to cap
borrowing costs.  “The lira is depreciating slightly because American
bourses are cautious before today’s Bernanke decision,”  Emre Balkeser , the head of trading at Garanti Securities in Istanbul,
said in e-mailed comments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  