-- Iran’s North Korea Links Draw Scrutiny at Nuclear-Weapon Meeting
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2013-07-17T14:15:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/iran-s-north-korea-links-draw-scrutiny-at-nuclear-weapon-meeting.html
The possibility that North Korea is
sharing nuclear-weapon test data with  Iran  cannot be ruled out
and is a proliferation risk, the former chief of a U.S. atomic-bomb laboratory said today at a meeting in Vienna.  “Sharing test information is a very dangerous thing to
do,” Siegfried Hecker, director emeritus at the Los Alamos,  New
Mexico , nuclear-weapons lab and a researcher at  Stanford
University , told a meeting of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test Ban
Treaty Organization in the Austrian capital. He called the
potential sharing “very troublesome.”  North Korea has tested three nuclear weapons with the most
recent detonation on Feb. 12. Iran, under investigation for a
decade over alleged nuclear-weapons work, maintains “strong”
weapons ties with the secretive Asian regime, according to U.S.
intelligence  reports , which add that  North Korea  “retains the
potential for exporting nuclear materials or technology.”  “Iran doesn’t need a nuclear weapon and has never claimed
it would need to test in the future,” Seyed Hosseini, Iran’s
deputy envoy to the CTBTO, said following Hecker’s remarks.
“There is no diversion for military purposes.”  Hecker, 69, toured North Korean nuclear facilities in 2010
and was first to report on the country’s uranium-enrichment
program. Pakistani scientist Abdul Qadeer Khan, who sold atomic
equipment to both North Korea and Iran, may have also provided
data on his country’s nuclear-weapon tests, Hecker said.  Recognized nuclear-weapons states like  Russia  and the U.S.
have detonated thousands of atomic bombs to increase the
reliability and yield of their devices. Data on weapon
effectiveness are closely held secrets. The nuclear-test-ban
treaty wants to restrict proliferation by eliminating the
ability of countries to experiment with new bomb designs.  ‘Nuclear Option’  “Iran has put all the things in place to build a bomb
without taking a decision to do so,” said Hecker. “They want
the nuclear option.”  In order to keep that option without conducting a nuclear
test of its own, Iran will need data from other nuclear-weapons
countries, Hecker said, adding that North Korea will have to
conduct additional testing in order to build a miniaturized
nuclear device capable of fitting on a missile.  “They have a tunnel that’s ready to go if they want to
test again,” Hecker said, pointing to satellite imagery showing
a test facility south of February’s blast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  