-- IRS’s Lerner Slowed Tea Party Review, Republicans Say
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-07-17T23:24:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/irs-s-lerner-slowed-tea-party-review-republicans-say.html
Lois Lerner, who oversaw tax-exempt
organizations at the  Internal Revenue Service , slowed the
consideration of anti-tax Tea Party groups’ applications,  House
Republicans  said in  a letter  today.  The Republicans, who want more information from the agency,
cited statements made to congressional investigators by IRS
employees.  Carter Hull, a recently retired IRS lawyer based in
Washington, told investigators that Lerner’s office made an
unusual request to delay decisions on applications when he
thought he had enough information to decide whether the groups
were impermissibly involved in political activities. Instead,
Hull said, the IRS chief counsel’s office wanted to gather more
information on what the groups did in the 2010 election cycle.  The chief counsel office’s “involvement and demands for
information about political activity during the 2010 election
cycle appears to have caused systematic delays in the processing
of Tea Party applications,” said the lawmakers’ letter, whose
signers include Representatives  Darrell Issa  of  California ,
chairman of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, and
 Dave Camp  of  Michigan , chairman of the Ways and Means Committee.  Congressional inquiries into the tax agency’s scrutiny of
Tea Party organizations and other small-government groups have
become increasingly partisan, with Republicans continuing to
seek potential connections to the White House and Democrats
arguing that the IRS was simply doing its job.  Democrats’ Response  Democrats countered the Issa letter by citing interviews
with other agency employees who said that review by the chief
counsel’s office -- essentially the IRS’s in-house attorneys --
was normal procedure.  “Although it may have appeared unusual to some IRS
employees with limited information, you failed to disclose that
other IRS employees with more information told committee staff
during their interviews that it was ‘common,’ ‘typical,’ and
‘customary,’” Representative  Elijah Cummings , the top Democrat
on the oversight panel, said in a letter today to Issa.  Some groups encountered delays of more than three years in
their requests for tax-exempt status. Republicans have begun
focusing more on the delays caused by Washington-based IRS
employees in the exempt organizations office than on the
decisions made in a Cincinnati field office to look more closely
at Tea Party groups.  Hull, who worked at the IRS for 48 years, will testify
tomorrow at a hearing before Issa’s committee.  Campaign Activity  Scrutiny of campaign activity is at the center of the IRS’s
job in looking at these applications. Groups applying for
501(c)(3) status as a charity can’t engage in electoral
politics. Groups applying to become 501(c)(4) social-welfare
groups can’t have politics as their primary activity.  The IRS apologized for its actions May 10. Since then, at
least four executives, including Lerner, have been pushed out of
their jobs. The  Justice Department  has begun a criminal probe.  Democrats released a memo yesterday citing 15 IRS employees
who told investigators they had seen no evidence of political
motivation or interference from outside the IRS. They said that
self-described progressive groups were subject to some scrutiny,
though it’s unclear how much or why.  Democrats have also criticized J. Russell George, the
inspector general who oversees the IRS, for not disclosing
information about Democratic-leaning groups. George is scheduled
to testify tomorrow.  Inspector Criticized  Today, they said that George blocked the release of
information about a “group of Democratic-leaning
organizations” that were denied tax-exempt status. The IRS
concluded that releasing the information wouldn’t violate
taxpayer privacy. The inspector general objected, interim IRS
chief Danny Werfel said, according to a hearing transcript from
today provided by Cummings’ office.  The inspector general’s office said today that its lawyers
and IRS attorneys had independently determined that some of the
information at issue “referred to a specific taxpayer by name
and should be redacted.” The IRS recently changed its
interpretation, finding that the reference in question didn’t
disclose data on the individual taxpayer, the inspector
general’s office said in a statement.  Lerner was placed on paid leave in May. She has refused to
testify before Congress, citing her constitutional rights
against self-incrimination.  Her lawyer,  William Taylor , didn’t respond immediately to
an e-mailed request for comment.  Political Appointees  The Republicans’ letter notes that the head of the chief
counsel’s office, William Wilkins, is one of two political
appointees at the IRS. The term “chief counsel” at the IRS
applies to Wilkins himself and is also commonly used to refer
generically to anyone who works under him.  The IRS said May 15 that Wilkins himself wasn’t involved in
an August 2011 meeting about the review of nonprofit groups and
didn’t discuss the issue with the Treasury Department’s general
counsel.  “Wilkins is not involved in the 501(c)(4) application
process,” the IRS said in its statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  