-- Israeli Comptroller Faults West Bank Building Oversight
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-07-17T15:48:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/israeli-comptroller-faults-west-bank-building-oversight.html
Israeli authorities are failing to
properly oversee planning and construction in the West Bank,
creating an atmosphere of “every man for himself” in the area,
 Israel ’s State Comptroller said in a report.  Lack of coordination in the area between civilian
authorities, the police and military also adversely affects
proper enforcement of security, environmental and agricultural
regulations in the West Bank, according to today’s report from
the comptroller, a government watchdog.  “ Law enforcement  in the West Bank covers many areas, and
it has significant social, economic and political implications,
including on the lives of Israelis and Palestinians living in
the area,” the comptroller said.  The report was issued as U.S. Secretary  John Kerry  was
meeting in Jordan with Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  in an effort to restart peace negotiations. Talks were
suspended in 2010, primarily over the issue of Israeli
construction in West Bank settlements on land claimed by the
Palestinians for a future state.  Israel’s Civil Administration and police have failed to
take responsibility for acting against illegal construction by
both Israelis and Palestinians in West Bank areas under their
authority, according to the comptroller’s report.  The Civil Administration, Israel’s governing body in the
West Bank, said in an e-mailed response that additional funds
and manpower will have to be allocated for a special unit to
monitor building violations in the area.  Israeli captured the  West Bank  during the 1967 Middle East
war with its Arab neighbors and says the fate of its settlements
there, built over the objections of the international community,
must be resolved in peace negotiations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  