-- Israel Asks EU to Delay Funding Restrictions Over 1967 Borders
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-07-17T11:31:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/israel-asks-eu-to-delay-funding-restrictions-over-1967-borders.html
Israel  is asking the European Union
to freeze new guidelines that would restrict EU funding to
entities operating over 1967 borders, saying they would
complicate efforts to reach a peace deal with the Palestinians.  The EU decision is especially untimely coming just as U.S.
Secretary of State  John Kerry  arrived in the region in an effort
to revive Israeli-Palestinian negotiations, said an Israeli
government official who was not authorized to give his name.  “I’m sure the prime minister’s office and foreign ministry
are dealing intensively with this issue at the moment via our
embassies in Europe and theirs here, and certainly through
personal discussions with its leaders,” Israeli Regional
Development Minister Silvan Shalom said today on  Army Radio .  The guidelines, published today in the Haaretz newspaper,
would restrict the award of EU-funded “grants, prizes and
financial instruments” to Israeli entities operating in “the
Golan Heights,  Gaza Strip  and the West Bank, including East
Jerusalem.”  Israeli captured those areas during the 1967 Middle East
War with its Arab neighbors. It has since withdrawn troops and
evacuated settlements in Gaza and annexed the Golan in a move
that has not been recognized internationally. Israel says the
fate of settlements in the  West Bank  must be resolved in peace
negotiations.  Cultural Exchanges  The guidelines, which are not binding, will cover central
EU funding and won’t affect contracts between individual
European governments and Israel, EU spokeswoman Maja Kocijancic
said yesterday in Brussels. She said the result could be funding
restrictions in “a very small number of cases.”  While the restrictions wouldn’t directly affect trade
between Israel and its largest export market, Israeli officials
say it may affect educational and cultural exchanges and set a
dangerous political precedent for their country’s relationship
with Europe.  “Legally this decision is open to endless interpretation,
and therefore one can only presume those who drafted it intended
it to be implemented to the greatest possible extent,” Israeli
Foreign Ministry spokesman Yigal Palmor said by phone. He added
that it would also reduce Palestinian incentives to negotiate
with Israel by predetermining the future border lines.  “We will not accept any outside diktat about our
borders,” Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said
yesterday. “This issue will be decided only in direct
negotiations between the sides.”  ‘Qualitative Shift’  Hanan Ashrawi , a member of the Palestine Liberation
Organization’s Executive Committee, welcomed what she called a
“significant move,” saying it would aid the  peace process .  “The EU has moved from the level of statements,
declarations and denunciations to effective policy decisions and
concrete steps which constitute a qualitative shift that will
have a positive impact on the chances of peace,” she said.  Israeli and Palestinian peace talks were suspended in 2010,
primarily over the issue of Israeli construction in West Bank
settlements on land claimed by the Palestinians for a future
state.  Kerry, who arrived in  Jordan  yesterday on his sixth trip to
the region in as many months, is trying to broker a formula to
bring both sides back to the negotiating table.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in  Jerusalem  at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  