-- James Cropper Looks to U.S. for Growth in Recycled Packaging
-- B y   M o r g a n e   L a p e y r e
-- 2013-07-17T12:18:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/james-cropper-looks-to-u-s-for-expansion-in-recycled-packaging.html
James Cropper Plc (CRPR) , the British
papermaker established in 1845, said it may gain business in the
U.S. after it unveils a new facility today to recycle disposable
coffee cups as high-quality paper products.  The new plant will allow Kendal, England-based James
Cropper to recycle 1 billion coffee cups a year to produce
packaging and shopping bags for luxury brands such as fashion
company Fendi SpA, Chairman Mark Cropper said in a telephone
interview. The facility was formally opened by  Queen Elizabeth
II  this morning in a visit to Cumbria.  “Rather than having to buy pulp from overseas, we built
this plant to have our own supply,” Cropper said. “We can be
more stable in our cost base.”  The technology to separate plastic coating from paper fiber
may stop 40 percent of 2.5 billion paper cups from going to
landfills or being burned each year in the U.K., the company
said. The system may lead to opportunities in parts of the U.S.
where packaging products must have a proportion of recycled
inputs.  “It’s really important for our luxury business that we now
have this technology in place,” Cropper said. “We can meet the
recycling-content need with no decline in quality.”  The shares rose 2.5 percent to 251 pence as of 1:15 p.m.,
the biggest intraday gain since March 20.  Robert Sanders of Westhouse Securities Ltd., the only
analyst covering the company who shares his research with
Bloomberg, had a buy recommendation on the stock at June 26 with
a target price of 300 pence.  James Cropper exports to more than 50 countries and
papermaking accounts for about 70 percent of its revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Morgane Lapeyre in London at 
 mlapeyre@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  