-- Jet Li-Endorsed Game Developer Said to Weigh Hong Kong IPO
-- B y   F o x   H u
-- 2013-07-17T04:19:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/jet-li-endorsed-game-developer-said-to-plan-ipo-in-hong-kong.html
Suzhou Snail Digital Technology Co. ,
the Chinese designer of online games including one endorsed by
movie star  Jet Li , is considering an initial public offering in
 Hong Kong , two people with knowledge of the matter said.  The company, also known as Snail Game, is in the process of
selecting investment banks to manage the offering, said the
people, asking not to be identified because the information is
private. The sale may raise as much as $100 million next year,
one of the people said.  Founded in Suzhou city in 2000, Snail Game was the first
Chinese company to develop 3D online games, according to its
website. “ Age of Wushu ”, which is promoted by Li under an
agreement with the company, was released last year in  China  and
the U.S. Wushu is a Chinese term for martial arts, and Li
features as a wushu master in a commercial for the game.  Shenzhen Dong Fang Bo Ya Technology Co. , a Chinese
developer of online and mobile games, is also planning an IPO in
Hong Kong, two other people said today. The company may raise as
much as $150 million in the third quarter, they said. The
company, known as Boyaa Interactive, develops social games such
as poker and mahjong games, according to its website.  In October 2007,  NetDragon Websoft Inc. (777)  raised $210 million
in Hong Kong’s last IPO of an online gaming company. The company
yesterday said it will sell its controlling stake in app store
91 Wireless to  Baidu Inc. (BIDU)  for $1.09 billion.  Forgame Tech Co. , a Guangzhou-based designer of online
games, is planning an IPO of at least $100 million in Hong Kong,
two people with knowledge of the matter said on July 10.  Officials at Snail Game were not available to comment on
the IPO, a person who answered the phone at its Suzhou
headquarters said. Calls to Boyaa Interactive’s Shenzhen
headquarters weren’t answered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  