-- Web Entrepreneur Jack Hidary Makes NYC Mayoral Run
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-07-18T17:10:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/job-search-website-founder-jack-hidary-enters-race-for-nyc-mayor.html
Jack Hidary, an Internet
entrepreneur who helped build the dice.com job-search website,
says he intends to enter the race for  New York  mayor as an
independent.  Hidary, 45, joins seven Democrats, three Republicans and an
independent campaigning to succeed Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  in a
Nov. 5 election.  Hidary has created a website seeking donations for a
campaign that he said would be modeled after Bloomberg’s
nonpartisan style of leadership, with the goal of bringing
technology companies to the city and helping  New Yorkers  start
small businesses.  “I’d like to build on the mayor’s success and bring more
economic development to  New York City ’s five boroughs,” he said
in an interview at Bloomberg’s New York headquarters. “Part of
the job of mayor is to run the city officially, but part of the
job is also to be the chief attracter of capital, and I alone
among the current candidates can do that.”  A major initiative would be spending money to wire all of
the city’s schools, businesses and neighborhoods for broadband
 Internet service , on the theory that it would increase
productivity and aid commerce, he said.  Google Adviser  “Who is better among the candidates than myself to go to
Silicon Valley and attract the kind of companies that would
create jobs here?” he said. Hidary serves on the advisory
council of Google X Labs, a research-and-development arm of the
 Mountain View , California-based technology company.  Dice.com was founded in 1990 by Lloyd Linn and Diane
Rickert, two Silicon Valley computer programmers, said Jennifer Bewley, a spokeswoman for Dice Holdings Inc., its parent
company. Hidary’s company, Earthweb, acquired Dice.com in 1999.
He resigned as chief executive officer in 2001, according to
Dice Holdings.  “My background as a successful entrepreneur and my years
in public service and economic development uniquely qualify me
for the office of mayor of New York City,” he said.  Bloomberg, 71, who leaves office Dec. 31, is barred from
seeking re-election after three four-year terms. He’s founder
and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  Tapping Trippi  In his effort to succeed him, Hidary, a Brooklyn native,
has hired Joe Trippi, 57, a veteran of the Democratic
presidential campaigns of former Vermont governor Howard Dean
and  John Edwards , and  Jerry Brown ’s successful 2010 campaign for
California governor, as his top campaign adviser.  Other advisers include  Richard Strauss , a media consultant
in the Clinton White House, and Campaign Grid, a firm that
advised Republican New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie , said
Linda Chung, a spokeswoman.  “The significance of his candidacy is that if he wins, we
would have a true 21st-century mayor who thinks in terms of the
city’s place in the world economy and enlists voter support
through social media, not political parties, unions and other
traditional interest groups,” said Andrew Rasiej, founder of
Personal Democracy Media, which holds conferences on the
intersection of technology and politics. The group hasn’t
endorsed a mayoral candidate.  Hidary said he sold his interest in dice.com to become more
involved as a corporate investor and supporter of nonprofits.
He’s been a member of the Partnership for NYC, a civic
organization composed of corporate executives; a trustee of the
 Citizens Budget Commission , a business-funded fiscal monitoring
group; and has served on the steering committee of Association
for a Better New York, a booster of city commerce, his website
says.  DHX US <EQUITY> CN
GOOG US <EQUITY> CN  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  