-- JPMorgan Nearing FERC Market-Rigging Settlement, WSJ Says
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2013-07-17T21:49:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/jpmorgan-nearing-ferc-market-rigging-settlement-wsj-says.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest
 U.S. bank , is near a deal with the  Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission  to settle allegations that the lender rigged
electricity markets, the Wall Street Journal reported.  The deal, which would resolve claims that the bank
manipulated power prices in California and the Midwest, could
require the largest payout in the agency’s history, according to
the report, which cited people familiar with the discussions.
 Joseph Evangelisti , a spokesman for New York-based JPMorgan, and
Mary O’Driscoll, a FERC spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Previous negotiations between JPMorgan and the regulator
involved a payout figure close to $1 billion, according to the
Wall Street Journal. A deal could cost the bank $500 million,
the New York Times reported today, citing people briefed on the
matter.  FERC warned JPMorgan in March that its personnel and two
subsidiaries may face claims stemming from a probe into its
bidding practices, according to a regulatory disclosure from the
bank in May. Claims may include “alleged violations of FERC
rules and the rules of certain independent system operators,”
the lender said at the time, without elaborating.  FERC Chairman Jon Wellinghoff has stepped up scrutiny of
corporations as the agency wields policing powers that were
expanded in the wake of Enron Corp.’s 2001 collapse.
Wellinghoff, whose term was due to expire June 30, submitted his
resignation in May. President  Barack Obama  asked him to stay
until a new commissioner is confirmed by the Senate.  Yesterday the regulator ordered  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and four
former traders to pay a combined $487.9 million in fines and
penalties for engaging in what the agency said was a scheme to
manipulate energy markets in the Western U.S. from November 2006
to December 2008. London-based Barclays said it would
“vigorously” fight the penalties.  Agency investigators may seek to hold JPMorgan traders and
commodities-unit chief Blythe Masters “individually liable,”
the New York Times reported in May, citing a 70-page document
the watchdog sent the bank in March.  The FERC revoked a JPMorgan unit’s right to trade power for
six months in November after accusing the firm of providing
misleading information to a California energy authority. The
suspension, which took effect in April, marked the first such
sanction for an active market participant.  Deutsche Bank AG is among companies that have settled with
FERC. The Frankfurt-based lender agreed on Jan. 22 to pay $1.6
million to resolve FERC claims that an energy-trading unit
manipulated markets in 2010. The bank, Germany’s biggest, didn’t
admit or deny wrongdoing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  