-- Kenya’s First Listed Property Developer Plans Two REITS
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2013-07-18T06:17:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/kenya-s-first-publicly-held-property-developer-plans-two-reits.html
Home Afrika Ltd., which became
 Kenya ’s first publicly traded property developer this week,
plans to create two real estate investment trusts to help boost
expansion across sub-Saharan  Africa .  The company is consulting legal advisers about a
development-REIT comprising as many as five construction
projects, Chief Executive Officer Gerald Chege, 44, said in a
July 16 interview in the Kenyan capital, Nairobi. The REIT will
be listed on the city’s stock exchange and may be followed by an
investment-REIT in about five years.  Home Afrika listed 405.3 million shares on the  Nairobi
Stock Exchange  on July 15 at an opening price of 12 shillings
each. The stock more than doubled on its debut trading day to 25
shillings and Chege said the company may issue more shares next
year.  “The amount we have released is very small, it is probably
less than 20 percent of what the company is worth,” Chege said.
The  stock  fell 10 percent yesterday to 22.5 shillings, valuing
Nairobi-based Home Afrika at 9.1 billion shillings ($105
million). The Nairobi Securities Exchange All Share  Index (NSEASI)  has
gained 30 percent this year, the third-best performer in Africa
after  Ghana ’s and  Nigeria ’s benchmarks, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Main Shareholders  Prior to its listing, Home Afrika had 128 shareholders, the
two largest being Home Afrika Continental Ltd. and Home Afrika
Investments Ltd., each holding shares in trust for nine and 10
individuals respectively, according to the company. The two main
shareholders own 5.92 percent and 5.03 percent respectively of
Home Afrika, which has seven units based on each property
development project it is undertaking.  Kenya last month approved  rules  for the establishment of
real estate investment trusts, publicly traded entities that are
exempt from corporate taxes and build or invest in property. A
development-REIT finances the construction of projects for a
later sale, while an investment REIT is designed to generate
regular income such as rent.  Home Afrika, which started as an investment club in 2008,
plans to build one million homes in the next 10 years across
Africa in partnership with Shelter Afrique, a pan-African
intergovernmental housing agency. The company is seeking to take
advantage of regional economic growth by expanding in Tanzania,
 Uganda ,  South Sudan ,  Ethiopia  and  Rwanda , Chege said.  New Projects  “There are always projects waiting to be done and there
are always projects being sold,” he said. “On average, we
operate with a capital requirement of half a billion shillings
at any one time.”  Home Afrika uses most of its capital to buy land rather
than on construction, Chege said. The company previously funded
its expansion with bank loans and is now raising finance with
the help of advisers including African Alliance and  Suntra
Investment Bank Ltd. , Chege said.  “We have so many people offering us money,” Chege said.
“These are people who are talking about $100 million-plus, but
I’m only going to take that money when I need it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  