-- Kerry Agrees Additional Meeting With Palestinian Leader
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-07-17T13:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/kerry-agrees-additional-meeting-with-palestinian-leader.html
U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry 
has added a second meeting with Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas while in Amman,  Jordan , amid reports he is making progress
on his push to revive negotiations between Israelis and
Palestinians.  The meeting this afternoon follows a five-hour dinner with
Abbas yesterday where the two broke the day’s Ramadan fast with
senior aides. Among other things, the two men discussed a
presentation on the  peace process  Kerry made today to an Arab
League committee, according to a State Department official who
wasn’t authorized to speak on the record.  Kerry is in Jordan on his sixth trip to the region in as
many months and is updating the Arab League Peace Initiative
committee on his attempts to restart talks. The Secretary
claimed progress during a trip two weeks ago both in prodding
Israelis and Palestinians toward renewed negotiations and in
reaching agreement with  Russia  about an eventual peace
conference on  Syria ’s civil war.  State Department officials are downplaying expectations for
this visit, portraying it as a chance for Kerry to make good on
a pledge to keep Arab leaders informed. Palestinian officials
told Agence France Presse that Kerry is closing in on a deal to
restart talks, however, and that Abbas is pleased with progress.  ‘Silent Movie’  This morning, Kerry and the Arab League leaders posed
briefly for a photo before beginning their discussions, standing
so quietly that one joked it was “like a silent movie.”  The ministers discussed Kerry’s efforts to restart talks as
well as the situation in Syria and the state of the political
opposition to President Bashar al-Assad, State Department
spokeswoman Jennifer Psaki said. Kerry last met with the
committee in  Washington  on April 29, where they re-affirmed a
proposal to recognize  Israel  in exchange for withdrawal from
territories the Palesitnians seek for a future state.  Kerry met Jordanian Foreign Minister Nasser Judeh yesterday
and indicated that he may visit a camp for Syrian refugees. The
 United Nations  estimates that almost 500,000 people have crossed
into Jordan to escape fighting in Syria.  “I think we may wind up visiting one of the refugee camps
as we talk about Syria,” Kerry said. “We were just chatting
about the importance of that.”  Later today, Kerry will meet with Jordan’s King Abdullah.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  