-- Kinder Morgan Quarterly Earnings Rise on Copano Purchase
-- B y   M i k e   L e e
-- 2013-07-17T22:27:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/kinder-morgan-quarterly-earnings-rise-on-copano-purchase.html
Kinder Morgan  Energy Partners LP,
the biggest U.S. pipeline company, said second-quarter earnings
rose more than sevenfold as it completed its $3.2 billion
purchase of Copano Energy LLC.  Net income increased to $1 billion from $132 million in the
same quarter of 2012, Houston-based Kinder Morgan said in a
statement today. After payments to parent company Kinder Morgan
Inc., Kinder Morgan earned $1.41 per unit compared with a 53-cent loss a year ago.  Revenue grew to $3.02 billion during the quarter from $2.01
billion a year earlier as Kinder Morgan Energy Partners took
over both Copano’s pipelines and conduits that its parent
acquired when it bought El Paso Corp. last year. Profit in the
 gas pipeline  division more than doubled to $566 million from
$238 million, according to the statement.  “We’re very bullish on the future of natural gas,”
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Richard Kinder  said in a
conference call with analysts. The gas pipelines segment is
expected to exceed previous estimates of 54 percent growth this
year because of the acquisition, the company said.  Distributable  cash flow , a measure of the company’s ability
to pay distributions to its unitholders, rose 38 percent to $505
million.  Copano Acquisition  Kinder Morgan bought Copano May 1 in an all-stock deal that
gave it control of 6,900 miles (11,100 kilometers) of natural
gas pipeline in  Texas ,  Oklahoma  and  Wyoming .  Kinder Morgan  said  May 13 it expects greater cost savings
from combining its operations with Copano’s, and raised its
projections for distributions to its unitholders.  Kinder Morgan expects to pay $5.33 per unit this year, 5
cents higher than the company previously forecast, according to
a filing on May 13. Kinder Morgan Inc. will see its dividend
increase to $1.60 per share for the year, from a previous
forecast of $1.57.  On May 31, Kinder Morgan canceled its proposed Freedom
crude oil pipeline from the Permian Basin in Texas to
 California . Richard Kinder said the company may revive the
project if market conditions warrant.  “If the California refiners and/or the Permian producers
demonstrate that they want to go forward with the project, we’re
certainly there to accommodate them,” he said.  Kinder Morgan must keep growing to maintain investor
payments, said  Darren Horowitz , an analyst with Raymond James &
Associates Inc. in Houston.  “There’s still a tremendous amount of increasing Permian
production on the horizon, and a lot of that crude is going to
have to find a home,” Horowitz said in an interview before the
earnings were announced. He rates Kinder Morgan the equivalent
of a hold and doesn’t own any of its units.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  