-- N.J. Workers Underreport Income So Kids Get Free Lunches
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2013-07-17T19:56:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/n-j-workers-said-to-underreport-pay-for-free-lunches.html
New Jersey  government employees
appear to have lied about their income to qualify their children
for free and reduced-price school lunches, according to a state
investigation that found “widespread” fraud.  A school board member in Pleasantville said she didn’t
include her own income because she wasn’t the one receiving the
lunches. In Paterson, a teacher admitted leaving out $68,600 of
annual pay from overtime and a second job. They are among 109
people being referred to the state attorney general for possible
prosecution, Comptroller Matthew Boxer said today.  “I feel like an idiot -- I’m apparently the only person
not getting a free lunch,” Governor  Chris Christie  said in
response to the 23-page report released by Boxer’s office.  New Jersey school districts received $212 million from the
federal government to provide free or reduced-price lunches
during the 2011-12 school year, and got an additional $5.5
million from the state. A family of four qualified for free
lunch if its annual income was less than $29,055 and, for
reduced-price meals, the maximum income was $41,348.  School Aid  The state uses data from the program to determine which
districts need a greater portion of taxpayer aid. A 2011 review
by the state auditor concluded that as many as 37 percent of
students who receive the benefits may be fraudulently enrolled.  Christie, a Republican seeking re-election in November, has
said the number of children receiving free or reduced-price
lunches is inaccurate and subject to fraud, and shouldn’t be
used to determine how many students are living in poverty.  Boxer’s investigation was prompted by newspaper reports
about fraudulent applications filed by public officials in the
Elizabeth school district. In 2011, the city’s school board
president and two others were charged with falsifying income
information so their children would receive the subsidies, at a
cost to taxpayers of $7,000 over five years, according to the
state Attorney General’s Office.  The comptroller’s report focused on a sample of 15
districts from 53 that received more than $1 million in
reimbursements for school lunches in the 2010-2011 school year.  Additional Fraud  The report said 101 individuals from those 15 districts are
suspected to have “materially underreported” their incomes,
and eight may have provided other false information.  “Based on our findings, it appears that a review of the
more than 600 remaining school districts not included in our
investigation could yield hundreds of additional public
employees who inappropriately obtained school lunch benefits for
their children,” according to Boxer’s report, which didn’t
identify the workers.  Total underreported income in the 109 cases exceeded $13
million, Boxer said. Eighty-three of those people are public
workers; 26 are a spouse or other household member. Many of the
people said they reported net income instead of gross income as
required, while others failed to list the income of their spouse
or other household members, according to the report.  Boxer said his investigation found school board members
were particularly brazen, using “insider information to scam
the program.” In Pleasantville, near  Atlantic City , three board
members underreported their income, while two did so in  Newark ,
New Jersey’s largest city, according to the report.  “These are people who are entrusted by the public, having
been elected to office,” he said at a press conference.  It isn’t clear whether individuals were encouraged by
higher-ups to commit fraud, the comptroller said. Many districts
sponsor barbecues and other free events to draw applicants, he
said.  “It’s clear that the districts are pushing to sign up as
many people as possible,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  