-- New York Health Exchanges Offer 50% Drop in Premiums
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2013-07-17T15:29:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/new-york-insurance-rates-said-to-drop-about-50-for-individuals.html
Health insurance premiums will drop
by about 50 percent on average for consumers in New York who buy
new plans through a state-run marketplace created by the U.S.
Affordable Care Act.  The state approved plans to be sold by 17 insurers,
including  UnitedHealth (UNH)  Group Inc. and WellPoint Inc., the
industry’s two biggest carriers, according to a  statement  today
by New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo . The lowered rates mean that
starting Oct. 1, a New York City resident who now pays at least
$1,000 a month for insurance will be able to buy coverage for as
little as $308, according to  rates  posted by governor’s office.  The premiums may ease fears that next year’s implementation
of the biggest parts of the 2010 Affordable Care Act would send
prices soaring. California announced rates in May that were
lower than the dire predictions of some insurers, and a June
study by consulting firm Avalere Health found premiums in nine
states were below Congressional Budget Office projections.  “New York’s health benefits exchange will offer the type
of real competition that helps drive down health insurance
costs,” Cuomo said in the statement. “The opportunity to
choose among affordable, quality health insurance options will
mean improved health outcomes, stronger economic security and
better peace of mind.”  The plans will be available to small-business employees and
residents who don’t get health coverage through their employer.
Federal subsidies offered by the health law may drop the costs
even lower for some consumers, the state said.  600,000 Covered  Healthcare Association of  New York  State, an advocacy group
representing hospitals and health systems, will be watching to
see if the exchange provides “adequate choice,” said Melissa
Mansfield, a spokeswoman.  “Some of the products may only contain a narrow option,
and so members may not be able to see pre-chosen doctors or a
hospital of their choosing,” Mansfield said by phone.
“Overall, though, having more people insured would be an
improvement.”  State officials estimate that more than 600,000 people will
buy coverage within the first few years at the lowered rates,
according to the statement.  Savings Potential  New York may have been more ripe for savings than other
states. Like the federal health law, New York regulators require
insurers to accept all applicants, regardless of medical
conditions. Unlike the federal act, the state doesn’t mandate
that all residents -- including the young and healthy -- buy
insurance.  That’s produced a  market  tilted toward sicker, costlier
members and driven New York premiums to among the highest in the
country. Starting in 2014, that will be mitigated by the federal
law’s subsidies for low- and middle-income customers, and its
requirement that all Americans get coverage or pay a penalty.  Rates will be coming down “primarily because a greater
number of uninsured individuals are expected to obtain
coverage,” the state said.  Plans sold on the exchanges will be divided into four
categories -- bronze, silver, gold and platinum, with the latter
offering the most coverage, yet also higher premiums. The
standardized plans will be an improvement over a current market
that confuses costumers, with more than 15,000 options sold to
small businesses alone, New York State said.  Affordable Choices  “We’re seeing in New York what we’ve seen in other states
like California and  Oregon  that competition and transparency in
the marketplaces are leading to affordable and new choices for
families,” said Joanne Peters, a spokeswoman for the U.S.
Health and Human Services Department, in an e-mail.  The 2014 rates will drop an average of 53 percent for the
highest tier plans -- gold and platinum -- when compared to last
year’s direct-pay individual premiums, the state said. Though
per capita health care costs are 18 percent higher in New York
than the national average, the average rates for the silver plan
would be almost 10 percent lower than the nationwide forecast
made by the  Congressional Budget Office .  The costs would be lower yet for individuals who earn less
than four times the federal poverty level, or $45,960 annually,
the cutoff for financial aid under the health law, according to
the statement.  50 Million  The health-care law seeks to expand coverage to most of the
nation’s 50 million uninsured people. About 7 million people are
expected to enroll in exchange plans next year, rising to 25
million by 2018, according to the CBO. The law also encourages
states to expand their Medicaid programs for the poor to cover
people earning close to poverty-level wages.  The 17 insurers whose rates were approved today include
Minnetonka, Minnesota-based UnitedHealth, the country’s biggest
health insurer, and the Empire Blue Cross plan of the second-largest insurer, Indianapolis-based  WellPoint. (WLP)   Aetna Inc. (AET)  will
also offer coverage.  Cuomo, a 55-year-old Democrat, issued an executive order in
April 2012 establishing a health exchange as part of President
 Barack Obama ’s landmark health-care system overhaul. The move
enabled Cuomo to sidestep Republican opposition in the state
senate and help make New York among the first states to begin
implementing the federal law.  Trouble Ahead  The new insurance rates won’t come without trade-offs. In
 Louisiana  last week, the state’s BlueCross BlueShield plan  said 
it expected premiums to stay flat or decline next year for about
75 percent of the individual market when subsidies are included.
The remaining 25 percent will likely see increases, with rates
more than doubling for some people who make too much for the
financial assistance, the company said.  That could spell trouble if higher prices push healthy
customers out of the market, said Carl McDonald, a Citigroup
insurance-industry analyst based in New York.  “The issue is that the 75 percent of the individual
population with stable or lower premiums (including subsidies)
are generally older and in poorer health,” McDonald said in a
July 13 research note. “The younger and healthier crowd is
generally the group facing the most significant increases that
are more likely to decide to pay the penalty and not buy health
insurance next year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany  at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  