-- NIC Hits Seven-Month Low as Quarterly Profit Drops: Riyadh Mover
-- B y   D e e m a   A l m a s h a b i   a n d   S h e r i n e   E l   M a d a n y
-- 2013-07-17T13:29:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/nic-hits-seven-month-low-as-quarterly-profit-drops-riyadh-mover.html
National Industrialization Co. (NIC) 
tumbled to the lowest level in more than seven months after
quarterly profit slumped 48 percent, dimming the outlook for
petrochemicals stocks in the Arab world’s biggest economy.  Shares of the company known as NIC retreated 2.3 percent to
25.4 riyals, the lowest since Nov. 28, at the close in  Riyadh .
The stock was the biggest decliner on the Tadawul All Share
Petrochemical Industries Index, which slid 0.8 percent.  Saudi
Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the world’s largest petrochemicals
company, fell 0.5 percent to 94 riyals, the lowest since July 7.  NIC’s net income for the three months through June declined
to 303 million riyals ($81 million) from 580 million riyals in
the year-earlier period, the company said in a statement today.
The results were affected by a drop in the titanium dioxide
industry’s profit margins, triggered by a decrease in sales
prices and an increase in production costs, NIC said.  The results “were below market expectations,” said
Muhammad Faisal Potrik, senior research analyst at Riyad
Capital. NIC “continues to be impacted by lower titanium
dioxide prices and decline in sales, which is negatively
affecting margins,” he said.  ‘Volumetric Decline’  Crude oil fell 0.7 percent in the second quarter after a
rally of 5.9 percent in the first three months of 2013, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The Tadawul’s 14-member
petrochemicals index gained 7.9 percent in the past 12 months,
trailing an increase of 17 percent in the  broader measure.   “The petrochemical segment has also experienced a
volumetric decline in the quarter, contributing to lower
profits,” Potrik said.  Shares of  Yanbu National Petrochemicals Co. (YANSAB) , a unit of
Sabic, fell 1.3 percent today, the third day of losses after its
second-quarter profit missed estimates.  Saudi Arabian Fertilizer
Co. (SAFCO) , or Safco, dropped to the lowest level in almost two weeks
after the Sabic affiliate also posted net income that fell short
of estimates.  Six analysts  recommend  investors buy NIC shares, while five
have a hold rating on the stock and one advises selling it, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. NIC has dropped 17 percent the past
year, the largest decline on the petrochemicals gauge in the
period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Deema Almashabi in Riyadh at 
 dalmashabi@bloomberg.net ;
Sherine El Madany in Dubai at 
 selmadany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  