-- Northern Trust Profit Rises 6.2% as Markets Lift Assets
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-07-17T11:43:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/northern-trust-profit-rises-6-2-as-markets-lift-assets.html
Northern Trust Corp. (NTRS) , the third-biggest independent U.S. custody bank, said second-quarter
profit rose a smaller-than-expected 6.2 percent as stock-market
gains boosted the value of assets the company oversees.  Net income increased to $187.9 million, or 78 cents a
share, from $176.9 million, or 73 cents, a year earlier, the
Chicago-based company said today in a statement. Results missed
the 83-cent average estimate of 15 analysts  surveyed  by
Bloomberg.  “With the continued movement in the markets, coupled with
customer growth, I expect them to see a nice uptick in
revenue,”  Marty Mosby , an analyst at Guggenheim Securities LLC
in Memphis,  Tennessee , said in an interview before results were
released.  Custody banks, under pressure to improve profitability hurt
by record-low interest rates, are benefiting as global equity
markets climb for the second straight year. Northern Trust, led
by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Frederick H. Waddell,
followed larger rivals Bank of  New York  Mellon Corp. and  State
Street Corp. (STT)  with job cuts in 2012 that, combined with
technology initiatives, are designed to lift annual pretax
income by $250 million by the end of this year.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  of U.S. stocks rose 18
percent in the 12 months ended June 30, and global stocks, as
measured by the MSCI ACWI Index, advanced 14 percent.  Fed Policy  Low interest rates hurt custody banks by reducing the
returns they make on lending and on their own investments. The
U.S. Federal Reserve has held its benchmark  interest rate  at
zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008 in an attempt to
stimulate borrowing and economic growth.  Custody banks keep records, track performance and lend
securities for institutional investors, including mutual funds,
pension funds and  hedge funds . Northern Trust also manages
investments for individuals and institutions.  Results were announced before the start of regular U.S.
trading. Northern Trust gained 21 percent this year through
yesterday, compared with a 27 percent advance by the Standard &
Poor’s 20-company  index  of asset managers and custody banks.  (Northern Trust is scheduled to hold a conference call for
investors at noon New York time. The call can be accessed at
 www.northerntrust/financialreleases .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  