-- Novartis Raises Forecasts on Lack of Diovan Competitor
-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 2013-07-17T16:11:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/novartis-raises-full-year-forecasts-on-lack-of-diovan-competitor.html
Novartis AG (NOVN)  raised its profit and
sales forecasts as generic competition for the Diovan blood-pressure medicine failed to materialize in the U.S.  Earnings will fall by a low-single-digit percentage this
year, while sales will rise by similar amount, both excluding
currency swings, the Basel, Switzerland-based company said in a
statement today. Novartis previously forecast a mid-single-digit
percentage decline in profit this year and had predicted sales
would be in line with those of 2012.  Novartis,  Europe ’s biggest drugmaker, said it expects to
lose $2.7 billion in sales to generic competition this year, 23
percent less than it previously forecast, as it continues to
benefit from  Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd.’s (RBXY)  failure to market a
copycat version of the Diovan hypertension drug. Diovan sales in
the U.S. amount to about $100 million a month, the company has
said.  “Management looks like it is taking advantage of the
Diovan windfall to invest in marketing and R&D,” Jeffrey Holford, an analyst at Jefferies International Ltd., said in a
report to clients today. He recommends buying the shares.  Second-quarter core net income, which excludes some costs,
fell 2 percent to $3.23 billion. Analysts predicted profit of
$3.22 billion, according to the average of 11 estimates  compiled 
by Bloomberg. Sales increased 1 percent to $14.5 billion,
compared to the average estimate of $14.4 billion.  Ranbaxy Lag  “There are some challenges ahead, but I’m pleased to say
we are delivering on our commitments for the full year,” Chief
Executive Officer  Joe Jimenez  told reporters on a conference
call.  Ranbaxy, which had the exclusive right to sell a generic
version of Diovan in the U.S. beginning Sept. 21, failed to win
regulatory approval to begin marketing the product. Novartis
said it expects the delay in U.S. competition for Diovan to
continue in the third quarter and that the benefit from that
effect will reverse in 2014.  A spokesman for Ranbaxy, which is based in Gurgaon,  India ,
didn’t immediately respond to a phone call seeking comment on
Diovan.  Novartis closed down 0.4 percent to 68.80 Swiss francs at
5:30 p.m. in Zurich. The stock had returned 25 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a 20 percent return for the
Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index.  Always Thinking  As drugmakers such as Novartis try to revive sales growth,
there is heightened interest in acquiring biotechnology
companies.  Onyx Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ONXX)  this month rejected a bid
from Amgen Inc., betting that potential suitors are willing to
pay more.  “We are always thinking of bolt-on acquisitions,” Jimenez
said on the call, defining them as deals of between $2 billion
and $5 billion. Jimenez declined to comment on whether Novartis
is interested in buying Onyx.  Novartis wouldn’t shy away from a bigger acquisition,
Jimenez said, underlining the company’s financial discipline.  “I’m not ruling anything out,” Jimenez said. “Any
acquisition would have to be a very good deal for Novartis
shareholders.”  The Swiss company hasn’t been contacted by Chinese
authorities amid regulatory inquiries in that market, Jimenez
said.  China  is investigating at least four multinational drug
makers as it widens its probe of  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , according
to a lawyer in  Hong Kong  whose firm advises companies on cross-border anti-corruption.  Sales in China grew by 25 percent compared to last year,
and Jimenez said Novartis will at least match the growth of the
market in that country in the future.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eva von Schaper in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  