-- Localiza Rises as Growing Car Market Reduces Depreciation Costs
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-07-17T17:53:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/localiza-rises-as-growing-car-market-reduces-depreciation-costs.html
Localiza Rent a Car SA (RENT3) ,  Latin
America ’s  largest  car-rental company, rose as profit increased
to a record in the second quarter, beating analyst estimates as
a growing Brazilian car market helped reduce depreciation costs.  The shares  added  2.5 percent to 31.77 reais at 12:58 p.m.
in Sao Paulo after earlier advancing as much as 3.4 percent to
the highest intraday price since June 27. The benchmark Bovespa
index  gained  0.8 percent.  Belo Horizonte , Brazil-based
Localiza’s adjusted net income jumped tenfold in the three
months through June from the year-earlier period to 103.4
million reais, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The average
estimate of six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was 87.5 million
reais.  Car sales remained strong in  Brazil  in the quarter, helping
Localiza to resell vehicles from its fleet to minimize
depreciation expenses, Roger Oey, an analyst at BES Investimento
do Brasil SA, wrote today in a note to clients.  Car-depreciation costs in the second quarter fell by 69
percent from a year earlier to 51.4 million reais, Localiza said
in a regulatory filing yesterday after the market closed. The
company also benefited from a 38 percent decline in financial
costs to 21.2 million reais ($9.5 million).  Localiza swapped part of its floating-rate debt to fixed
rates, which “allowed it to reduce the negative effect on net
financial expenses from recent hikes” in benchmark Brazilian
short-term interest rates, according to Oey.  The lower costs helped the company overcome a worse-than-expected 3 percent increase in revenue to 813.1 million reais.
The average  estimate  among seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
was for revenue of 830.7 million reais.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in  Sao Paulo  at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  