-- Oft-Delayed San Francisco Span May Cost $3 Billion a Mile
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2013-07-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/oft-delayed-san-francisco-span-may-cost-3-billion-a-mile.html
Eight years after a section of the
 San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge  collapsed in the 1989 Loma
Prieta earthquake, California officials said they’d spend $1.28
billion to replace the damaged eastern span by 2004.  Almost a decade later, the 2.2-mile (3.5-kilometer)
structure isn’t ready, and cost estimates have swelled to about
$6.4 billion -- or $2.9 billion a mile. That price is  comparable 
to the second-most-expensive U.S. bridge replacement project,
for a 1.4-mile floating span across Lake Washington to  Seattle 
scheduled for completion late next year.  While the Washington project is forecast to come in at less
than its $4.65 billion ceiling, the Bay Bridge’s cost continues
to climb, most recently with an estimated $20 million repair
announced July 10 after 32 steel rods failed in stress tests.  “This is so grossly over budget and has taken so much
longer than originally forecast,” said state Senator Mark DeSaulnier, a Concord Democrat who leads the Transportation and
Housing Committee. “By most reasonable definitions, it’s been a
failure of management.”  Since 1997, when then-California Governor Pete Wilson, a
Republican, chose to replace the eastern section of the bridge,
the design has evolved from an unadorned skyway to the world’s
 longest  self-anchored cable suspension bridge. Meanwhile, the
cost of steel has risen mainly because of demand from  China .
Flat-rolled steel coil doubled to $772 a metric ton this year
from $384 in 2002, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Busy Bridge  The bridge carries about  280,000  vehicles a day along
 Interstate 80  over  San Francisco  Bay. The eastern and western
sections meet at Yerba Buena Island, site of the former Treasure
Island U.S. Navy base. The new part will have two parallel
spans, each with five traffic lanes, 10-foot shoulders and a
bicycle path on the eastbound side.  From its inception, the project has been whipsawed by Bay
Area politics, such as San Francisco’s boycotts of bridge-related meetings in 1999 because city leaders opposed the
alignment of the east span, according to a 2004 report for the
Joint Legislative Audit Committee by the California State
Library. The Navy barred the state from testing soils on Yerba
Buena because it opposed the proposed alignment, prompting a
White House meeting in August 1999 to resolve the issue.  Rising Costs  Construction began in 2002. The state transportation
department forecast completion in 2007, while the projected cost
of the east span had doubled to $2.6 billion, according to a
legislative  analysis  in 2005. That year, lawmakers passed a $1
toll increase to cover budget overruns. The department pledged
to “pursue cost-saving measures aggressively” to hold the
final price at $2.6 billion, according to an August 2002 report
by State Auditor Elaine Howle.  By August 2004, bridge planners said the projected cost had
risen to $5.1 billion, according to the 2005 bill analysis.
State planners attributed the increases to higher steel prices,
a four-year delay in completing the project, the more complex
cable-suspension design, and unrealistically low initial
estimates, the analysis shows. In 2004, U.S. steel prices had
almost doubled to $759 a ton from 2002 levels, the data show.  Meanwhile, contractors reinforced the western span of the
bridge between San Francisco and Yerba Buena by adding steel
plates and replacing about 500,000 rivets with almost 1 million
high-strength bolts, according to the transportation department
project  website . More than 7,700 tons of steel were added.  Under Budget  Costs on the western structure, including a new freeway
approach into San Francisco, came to about $754 million by May
31, below the $772 million budget, according to a June 2013
report from the Toll Bridge Program Oversight Committee.  In December 2004, then-Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger 
proposed scrapping the east span’s suspension design in favor of
a simpler concrete structure to save as much as $500 million. A
Howle audit that month faulted the transportation department,
referred to as Caltrans, for its oversight and said it was
difficult to pinpoint reasons for cost increases because of
 trade secrets  claimed by contractors.  “Managing a program of this size, complexity, and cost
requires a consistently high level of diligence in applying
accepted project-management practices,” the auditors said in
the report. “However, Caltrans has not fully incorporated
generally accepted standards for project management.”  The then-head of Caltrans, Sunne Wright McPeak, responded
by saying that some project oversight changes were being made.
She also said the more complex suspension architecture was
largely responsible for rising costs.  ‘Very Difficult’  “The challenge of building large and complex bridges in
locations that have high seismic risk is very difficult and
multifaceted,” McPeak said in a written response. “Replacement
of the east span, in particular, has been and continues to be
one of the most complex engineering projects ever undertaken
and, as indicated in your report, has been adversely affected by
factors both within and beyond the control of Caltrans.”  Schwarzenegger signed the 2005 toll-increase bill that kept
the suspension design and covered most of the additional costs
with bonds pledged against the extra revenue. Drivers now pay $6
during peak periods to cross into San Francisco; there is no
eastbound fee.  The bill also devoted more money to the project by drawing
from other parts of the state budget and from refinancing debt
of the Bay Area Toll Authority, part of the area’s Metropolitan
Transportation Commission. The law set up the three-member
oversight panel to monitor costs and settle disputes.  Turning Point  Since the overseers began their work in 2005, the project
has mostly stayed within budget, said Amy Rein Worth, chairwoman
of the Oakland-based regional commission, which will operate the
new bridge. Between July 2005 and May 2013, the projected cost
rose to $6.4 billion from $5.5 billion, or about 16 percent,
according to the committee’s June report.  “The original estimate probably was not realistic given
the scope of the project,” Worth, the mayor of Orinda,
northeast of Oakland, said in an interview. “What’s important
to recognize is that the cost was pretty much set in 2005 and
that’s where we’ve been since then. It has moved very
deliberatively on target and on schedule since 2005.”  The most recent escalation, included in the $6.4 billion
estimate, covers the replacement of massive support bolts that
snapped during stress tests in March due to hydrogen exposure.
That $20 million expense will be covered by the project’s
contingency fund, said Andrew Gordon, a commission spokesman.  Opening Delayed  Last week, the commission and Caltrans announced a delay in
the opening of the east span, planned for September, because of
the failure of the 32 rods that were supposed to stabilize the
span during an earthquake. The agencies pushed back the
timetable to sometime after a fix is completed in December.  The latest delay intensified criticism of project managers.  “It was completely the wrong choice on the type of
material they used” for the rods,  Charles McMahon , a professor
emeritus of materials science and engineering at the  University
of Pennsylvania , said by telephone. “Lack of knowledge is
exactly what’s going on here.”  During a July 10 commission hearing, Executive Director
Steve Heminger said designers didn’t consider the unique
challenges of the heavily traveled bridge in a saltwater
environment in developing specifications for the rods, nor did
they try to maneuver around state contracting restrictions that
limited them to a single type of rod. Heminger said none of the
other rods supporting the structure appears to be vulnerable.  Defending Management  Heminger defended the management of the east span project
in speaking to reporters after the meeting. He said that
political considerations and unspecified “phantom problems”
delayed the work and pushed up costs.  “If this bridge were just about engineering,” he said,
“we’d probably have been done a decade ago.”  Tax-exempt toll authority revenue bonds maturing in April
2028 traded July 8 for the first time since May, with a yield of
3.84 percent, the most since the debt was sold in September,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Top-rated munis had an average
yield that was about 1.31 percentage points lower that day,
close to the widest spread since the 2012 sale, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  