-- Holder Rebuke of Stand-Your-Ground Laws Stirs Repeal Call
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   B o y d
-- 2013-07-17T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/holder-rebuke-of-stand-your-ground-laws-stirs-repeal-call.html
U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder’s
criticism of state self-defense laws is fueling calls for their
repeal by NAACP members angered over last week’s acquittal of a
 Florida  man who fatally shot a black teenager.  “Stand Your Ground laws need to be repealed now,” said
Curley Clark, an accountant who has led the Pascagoula, Miss.,
NAACP chapter for 30 years. “I’m confident the NAACP will try
to get state legislatures to a fresh look at these laws and
overturn them.”  Clark and other attendees at the group’s annual convention
in  Orlando , Florida, yesterday said they were stunned that
George Zimmerman was acquitted in the killing of 17-year-old
Trayvon Martin. Clark recalled the civil-rights battles of the
1960s and said he would like to see a return of the national
crusade that reshaped race relations in the U.S.  Holder yesterday spoke to those concerns, drawing cheers
and standing ovations when he said that it’s time to “take a
hard look” at stand-your-ground laws, which allow individuals
who feel threatened to respond with deadly force. He also
reiterated his pledge that the  Justice Department  would continue
investigating the circumstances that led to Martin’s death in
February 2012.  A six-woman jury in the Orlando suburb of Sanford on July
13 found Zimmerman not guilty of murder or the lesser possible
charge of manslaughter for shooting Martin through the heart
during a struggle at a townhouse complex.  Prosecutors alleged that Zimmerman, 29, profiled Martin as
a criminal suspect, followed and confronted him, leading to a
fight in which the youth was killed.  Self-Defense Argument  Defense lawyers argued that Zimmerman acted in self-defense, fearing for his life after Martin punched him in the
face, knocked him to the ground and then pounded his head
against the pavement.  Law enforcement officials in Sanford last year failed to
charge Zimmerman in Martin’s death, saying that the state’s
stand-your-ground law gave him immunity. The 2005 law says that
deadly force can be used in self defense when a person has
reason to fear for his life.  Holder challenged the stand-your-ground law, citing what he
said was a long-standing legal doctrine that people have a duty
to try to retreat from threats of violence in public places.  “By allowing and perhaps encouraging violent situations to
escalate in public, such laws undermine public safety,” Holder
said. “The list of resulting tragedies is long and --
unfortunately -- has victimized too many who are innocent.”  Licensed ‘Vigilantism’  Benjamin Jealous, president of the National Association for
the Advancement of Colored People, echoed that sentiment, saying
that the measures can encourage violence.  “Stand Your Ground laws license vigilantism,” Jealous
said after Holder’s speech. The states, he said, must begin
repealing such laws.  Holder and the NAACP are in opposition to laws backed by
the  National Rifle Association  and other gun advocacy
organizations. The Fairfax, Virginia-based NRA is the nation’s
largest gun-rights lobbying group.  The NAACP has sought to tap national outrage over
Zimmerman’s acquittal. In the three days since the verdict was
read, the group and the Moveon.org organization said they have
collected 1 million signatures on petitions calling on the
Justice Department to bring civil-rights charges against
Zimmerman.  Rosemary Harris Lytle, president of the NAACP’s state
conference in Colorado, Montana and  Wyoming , said the federal
government needs to play an active role in the Martin case and
others.  ‘Floored’ Attendee  “If the state courts can’t protect the lives of people in
this country, the federal government needs to get involved,”
Lytle said. “This is about justice.”  Others at the convention echoed Lytle’s concern.  “We are mourning a dead kid who will never go to college,
make his parents proud and have children of his own,” said
Kemba Cofield of Atlanta. “What happened in Trayvon’s trial
just floored me. I had no idea that anyone thought that man
Zimmerman should go free.”  Clark said the Zimmerman verdict could be a catalyst to
inspire wider youth involvementy in the civil-rights struggle.  “Everywhere you go, people are talking about this,” he
said. “We are hoping the  Department of Justice  will take up the
cause. A lot of the rights the NAACP fought for and won years
ago are now being lost.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Boyd in Orlando at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  