-- Hong Kong Stocks Rise on China FDI, Bernanke; AAC Plunges
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2013-07-17T02:55:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/hong-kong-stocks-rise-on-china-fdi-bernanke-aac-plunges.html
Hong Kong   stocks  advanced, with the
benchmark index gaining a third day, after foreign investment in
 China  rose and ahead of Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke’s policy report. AAC Technologies Holdings Inc. slumped
on a possible delay of Apple Inc.’s iPhone 5S.  China Shenhua Energy Co. (1088) , the nation’s biggest coal miner
by market value, surged 6.5 percent after revenue rose last
month. Luk Fook Holdings International Ltd. added 2.2 percent
after the jeweller’s same-store sales grew and gold traded near
a three-week high. AAC Technologies, which supplies speakers for
Apple smartphones, dropped 4.6 percent.  The  Hang Seng Index  added 0.7 percent to 21,458.81 as of
10:44 a.m. in Hong Kong, with more than four shares rising for
each that fell. Trading volume was 37 percent lower than the 30-day intraday average. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of
mainland shares climbed 1.5 percent to 9,556.99.  “The market is still waiting for major policy news from
China but so far the growth rate isn’t that bad so I don’t think
there will be significant changes in the short term,” said  Ben Kwong , chief operating officer at brokerage KGI Asia Ltd. “If
you look at recent  market sentiment  and investor risk appetite,
people are less fearful of Fed tapering as they tend to believe
it’s the result of a stronger  U.S. economy .”  The Hang Seng Index has rebounded 2.5 percent through
yesterday, after posting its  biggest monthly decline  in a year
in June, on speculation China may act to ease a deepening
slowdown. The government this week reported 7.5 percent economic
growth in the second quarter, down from 7.7 percent in the first
three months of the year, as factory output weakened.  China FDI  China’s foreign direct investment rose 20 percent in June
to $14.4 billion, the Ministry of Commerce said today. The
monthly total was the highest in data going back to 1997 and the
largest increase in more than two years.  Shares on the  benchmark   Hang Seng Index (HSI)  traded at 10.1
times estimated earnings yesterday, compared with 15.2 times for
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 13.2 for the Stoxx Europe
600 Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chinese Premier Li Keqiang yesterday said the nation will
seek to keep economic growth, employment and inflation within
limits, avoiding “wide fluctuations,” without elaborating on
what the government deems acceptable.  Deutsche Bank AG co-Chief Executive Officer Anshu Jain said
efforts to bolster China’s domestic consumption to boost the
nation’s economic growth poses risks.  “It’s the right strategy for them in the long run,” Jain
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s Haslinda Amin
today in  Singapore . “If there is something to watch closely in
China, it would be the implications of that shift from
infrastructure spending.”  Fed Expectations  Futures on the  S&P 500  were little changed today. The index
dropped 0.4 percent yesterday as Coca-Cola Co.’s profit dropped
and after Fed Bank of Kansas City President Esther George said
the U.S. was on the “right path” for recovery and that cuts in
the pace of stimulus are “appropriate.”  Ben S. Bernanke  bolstered the rally last week after he
backed sustained monetary easing. The central bank chairman will
deliver his semi-annual monetary policy report to Congress
starting today.  Hang Seng Index futures climbed 0.7 percent to 21,411. The
HSI Volatility Index slid 3.4 percent to 19.67, indicating
traders expect a swing of 5.6 percent for the equity benchmark
in the next 30 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  