-- Longest U.K. Heat Wave Since ’06 Threatens Crop After Wet Spring
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-07-17T12:19:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/longest-u-k-heat-wave-since-06-threatens-crop-after-wet-spring.html
The U.K.’s longest heat wave in
seven years and below-average rainfall this month is threatening
the country’s wheat yields after cold, soggy weather slowed crop
development earlier this year.  Temperatures in the U.K. have climbed above 28 degrees
Celsius (82 degrees Fahrenheit) for 11 days, the longest hot
spell since 2006, the  Met Office  said today in an online  report .
England had 4 millimeters (0.2 inch) of rain on average in the
first two weeks of July. Similar precipitation totals in the
second half of the month would mean the driest July for the
region since 1825, when England and  Wales  saw just 8 millimeters
of rain, the national weather forecaster said.  U.K. wheat crops are developing at 10 to 14 days slower
than the normal pace after cold and wet weather early in the
season, said  Charlotte  Garbutt, a senior analyst at the
Agriculture & Horticulture Development Board. The country had
its  coldest  spring since 1962, with temperatures averaging about
6 degrees Celsius in March, April and May, and 2012 was the
country’s second-wettest  year  on record, Met Office data show.  “If it goes on being hot, it’s potentially damaging,”
Garbutt said by telephone yesterday. “Crops developed in water-logged soils, so they don’t have as strong of a root base as
they might have had in a typical year, because they haven’t had
to get down deep to find moisture. That makes them more
vulnerable to dry weather later in the season.”  Feed-wheat futures rallied to a record last November in
 London  after excess rain cut the past season’s harvest by 13
percent, government data show. The U.K. was probably a net-importer of wheat for the first time in 11 years in the 2012-13
season ended June 30, and purchases probably will be larger than
outbound shipments again this season, Garbutt said.  Harvest  U.K. farmers may have planted wheat for the 2013-14 harvest
on an area 29 percent smaller than a year earlier, after excess
rain last autumn during the time winter crops are usually sown,
the National Farmers Union said last month. The harvest may be
about 12 million metric tons, down from 13.3 million tons in the
previous season, AHDB senior analyst Jack Watts said in an
interview June 12.  Rainfall averaged 9.2 millimeters across the U.K. in the
first half of July, with  Scotland  and  Northern Ireland  seeing
higher totals than England and Wales, the Met Office said. The
country had 132 hours of sunshine, 77 percent of the amount
usually seen for the full month of July. Temperatures have been
about 1 degree Celsius warmer than normal for the month.  Southeast England including London was under a level three
heat  watch  today, with temperatures expected to climb as high as
32 degrees Celsius, the Met Office said. Hot, sunny  weather 
remains in the forecast for much of the U.K. through at least
July 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  