-- Top Bangladesh Islamist Sentenced to Death by War Tribunal
-- B y   A r u n   D e v n a t h
-- 2013-07-17T08:04:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/top-bangladesh-islamist-sentenced-to-death-by-war-tribunal-1-.html
Bangladesh ’s war crimes tribunal
gave its second high-profile verdict in three days, sentencing a
top leader of an Islamic party to death as it presses ahead with
convictions that have raised political tension.  Judges found Jamaat-e-Islami Secretary General Ali Ahsan
Mohammad Mojaheed, 65, guilty on five charges including murder,
rape and looting during the nation’s struggle for freedom from
Pakistan four decades ago, chief prosecutor Golam Arif Tipu told
reporters in Dhaka today. Mojaheed led an armed outfit known as
Al-Badr, an auxiliary force of the Pakistan army, in 1971,
according to a court document.  The tribunal has so far handed down verdicts in six cases
since its creation in March 2010. Sentences have exposed deep
divisions in Bangladesh over the war and how to deal with calls
for justice. Rallies of up to 100,000 people have been held by
those pushing for the death penalty and Islamic groups who
accuse the government of Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina Wajed of
using the tribunal to weaken opponents ahead of elections
scheduled for next year.  The tussle over the verdicts is unavoidable, said Shantanu
Majumder, associate professor of political science at Dhaka
University, in a phone interview. “It’s inevitable because the
trial is connected with the making of the nation and its
history,” he said.  Three Million Dead  At the end of British colonial rule in 1947, East and West
 Pakistan  were separated by 2,000 kilometers (1,241 miles) of
Indian territory. Pakistani troops in 1971 attempted to quell a
nationalist uprising in the east that was triggered by the
jailing of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, who had led his Awami League
to victory in elections. The war ended nine months later with
the creation of Bangladesh after Indian forces helped defeat
Pakistan’s army.  According to a court document, an estimated 3 million
people were killed and more than 200,000 women were raped during
the war.  The tribunal July 15 sentenced the 91-year-old former chief
of Jamaat to jail for the rest of his life.  Ghulam Azam, who remains a key figure in the group, was
found guilty of torture and the murder of unarmed people during
the 1971 struggle. He received a total of 90 years in jail.  At least three people were killed yesterday in clashes with
security forces on the second day of a shutdown called by Jamaat
and its student wing to protest the verdicts, the Daily Star
newspaper reported. Six people died in violence the day before,
it said.  Before today’s ruling, Jamaat had vowed to extend the
protests by another day if Mojaheed was convicted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arun Devnath in Dhaka at 
 adevnath@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  