-- Senior al-Qaeda Leader Killed by U.S. Drone, Group Says
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2013-07-17T15:31:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/top-saudi-al-qaeda-leader-killed-by-u-s-drone-group-says.html
Saeed al-Shihri, co-founder of
Yemen-based al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, was killed by a
U.S. drone strike, Ibrahim al-Rubeish, a member of the group,
said in a YouTube video posted yesterday.  Al-Shihri, a former Guantanamo detainee, was one of the
most wanted men in Saudi Arabia. The Yemeni government reported
his death in January, saying he succumbed to wounds he sustained
in Yemen two months earlier and had been buried in an
undisclosed location in Yemen by al-Qaeda-linked militants.  Al-Shihri helped merge the Saudi and Yemeni branches of the
group into al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula following a
crackdown in Saudi Arabia that led to the death or imprisonment
of many of its leaders.  In the video, al-Rubeish said al-Shihri was concerned about
jailed female operatives and had made contact to inquire about
them, a lapse in his normal security precautions. “This enabled
the enemy to kill him,” al-Rubeish said.  He said al-Shihri had been the target of numerous previous
attacks, three of which injured his hands and legs and led to
the loss of an eye.  Al-Shihri was a “key figure,” who was one of the most
prominent members of AQAP’s Saudi branch and was a “terribly
charismatic” man with a resemblance to al-Qaeda founder Osama
bin Laden, said  Evan Kohlmann , senior partner at  Flashpoint
Partners .  ‘Safe Areas’  “The whole reason why AQAP has gotten to where it’s at now
is the fusion of both the Saudi and Yemeni al-Qaeda branches,”
Kohlmann said in an interview from New York.  “It brought the resources and reach of al-Qaeda’s Saudi
branch with the established network and safe areas protected by
al-Qaeda in Yemen,” he added.  Al-Qaeda has used bases in Yemen to strike Western targets
inside the country as well as mount cross-border attacks on
Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest crude oil exporter. In 2009,
the group was blamed for the failed assassination attempt on
Prince Muhammad Bin Nayef, who was then Saudi Arabia’s counter-terrorism chief and is now its interior minister.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  