-- Tornadoes Inflate Nebraska Nuke Plant’s Bond Risk: Muni Credit
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   O l d h a m   a n d   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-07-17T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/tornadoes-inflate-nebraska-nuke-plant-s-bond-risk-muni-credit.html
The risk of floods and tornadoes is
preventing investors in $1.8 billion of bonds of  Nebraska ’s
biggest electricity provider from participating in the best year
since 2008 for municipal debt of U.S. power companies.  Borrowings of Omaha Public Power District, the nation’s
12th-largest public-power utility, are at risk of a rating cut
by Moody’s Investors Service amid delays in reopening its Fort
Calhoun Station nuclear plant. The facility has been shut since
2011 in part to safeguard against Missouri River flooding and
the threat of Midwest twisters.  More than two years after floods crippled  Japan ’s Fukushima
Dai-Ichi nuclear plant, investors in the municipal market have
to factor borrowers’ preparedness for natural disasters into
their risk analysis. The Nebraska shutdown shows the cost to
issuers when they fall short. The extra yield buyers demand on
some Omaha bonds has risen 20 percent this year, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. Any signs the shutdown will be prolonged may
add to the penalty, said Paul Mansour at Hartford, Connecticut-based Conning, which holds about $10 billion of munis.  “If there’s any indication that this is not going to come
online this year, or there’s other issues that arise, that would
give us pause,” said Mansour, a managing director.  Fixes Required  Federal inspectors found this year that the 40-year-old
Fort Calhoun site needed  upgrades  to ensure it could ride out a
tornado. The findings were on top of 450 items the U.S. Nuclear
Regulatory Commission has discovered since 2011. The plant was
closed for refueling when the Missouri overflowed its banks in
June 2011, flooding portions of the facility, which then
experienced an electrical fire.  “Every plant in the U.S. has to be able to withstand the
most severe historically recorded natural phenomena in the
area,” Lara Uselding, a spokeswoman for the Rockville,
Maryland-based NRC, said in an interview.  Moody’s in May placed the district’s Aa1 senior and Aa2
subordinate electric-system revenue-bond ratings under review
for downgrade. The senior debt is graded one step below the top.
The company cited repeated delays in restarting the plant
following the increased NRC scrutiny. The restart date has been
delayed at least three times in the past year.  Off Line  “Additional requirements for tornado safety were added due
to the numerous tornadoes that have occurred in the Midwest in
recent months,” wrote John Medina and Chee Mee Hu, analysts in
the public finance group, in a May 29 report. The report came
less than two weeks after a tornado devastated a suburb of
Oklahoma City about 500 miles (805 kilometers) to the south.  “If this were a much lower-rated utility, it’s not out of
line for them to remain off line,” Medina said in an interview.
“If you are the cream of the crop, you should have minimal
operating issues.”  Any rating cut would be limited to one level, Medina said
in the report. Moody’s announcement affected about $1.5 billion
of senior and $346 million of subordinate debt.  The extra yield investors demand to buy some district debt
rather than benchmark munis has climbed. Senior bonds maturing
in February 2039 and callable in 2019 were valued by BVAL
analysis on July 15 at a yield spread of 2.42 percentage points,
up from 1.97 percentage points at the start of the year.  Debt of U.S. power providers is on pace to beat the broader
market for the first time since 2008. The segment has lost
2.9 percent this year, compared with a 3.2 percent decline for
all munis, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show.  Peer Pressure  Moody’s is also concerned that the provider will suffer
relative to its peers because of the plant shutdown.  “When we look at power-supply diversity, they’re going
into another summer where they aren’t going to have this low-cost power supply,” Medina said. “It’s pressuring their
business profile in relation to” similar credits.  Moody’s decision didn’t come as a surprise, Jeff Hanson,
the district’s manager of communications strategy and
technology, said via e-mail.  “We understood Moody’s might place the bonds under review
for possible downgrade since OPPD was placed on negative watch
last September concerning issues surrounding Fort Calhoun
Station,” he wrote.  OPPD , which serves 780,455 people, hired a unit of  Exelon
Corp. (EXC)  in August to operate Fort Calhoun, a 478.6-megawatt plant
on the Missouri 19 miles north of Omaha. Chicago-based Exelon is
the country’s largest nuclear-power producer.  Safety Flag  “Exelon has the resources and experience to help return
Fort Calhoun Station to a high-performing plant in a cost-efficient manner and sustain the performance,” Hanson said.  Moody’s cited the condition of Fort Calhoun Station. The
NRC placed the facility under  special oversight  and assigned the
highest level of safety significance after the flooding.  Fort Calhoun is one of more than a dozen nuclear power
sites placed under the highest level of NRC scrutiny since 1993.
Issues at the Nebraska facility date to the original design of
the plant, said David Lochbaum, director of the nuclear safety
project for the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Union of
Concerned Scientists.  “What’s hard to explain about Fort Calhoun is that in the
mid-1990s a lot of plants went through similar problems with
legacy design issues and addressed them,” he added. “I’m not
seeing in their paperwork, or the NRC’s paperwork, why those
problems were missed.”  Rate Boost  To help pay for the $143 million in fixes required by the
NRC, the district implemented a 6.9 percent retail rate increase
on Jan. 1, Hanson wrote.  Some investors still like the district’s debt because the
system has raised rates and reduced expenses to mitigate Fort
Calhoun’s delayed reopening, said Mansour at Conning. The firm
would still consider buying Omaha Public Power bonds, he said.  “There are only a handful of credits in the public-power
sector with that rating to begin with,” Mansour said.  The district hasn’t set a date to restart the plant, said
Hanson.  “The vast majority of the items on the checklist are
either closed, ready for inspection, or being inspected,” he
said. “Cost estimates for restart continue to be within budget
and manageable.”  ‘Lost Credibility’  There is still work to be done at the facility and
inspectors must return and ensure that officials complied with
18 categories of items, with three being signed off on to date,
according to Uselding.  “They are not ready -- they have a lot of work to be
done,” said the NRC’s Uselding. “They’ve lost credibility in
the community.”  In the municipal market this week,  Texas ’s Grand Parkway
Transportation Corp. leads localities offering about $9 billion
of long-term debt, the  most  in three months.  The wave comes as yields on benchmark 10-year munis are the
lowest since July 5. At 2.78 percent, the yield compares with
2.53 percent on similar-maturity Treasuries.  The ratio of the interest rates, a measure of relative
value, is about 110 percent, compared with a five-year average
of 100 percent. As the ratio increases, munis are cheaper
relative to federal securities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Oldham in Denver at 
 joldham1@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  