-- OTP Declines Most in 4 Months on Mortgage Plans: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-07-17T16:06:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/otp-drops-most-in-week-on-orban-s-mortgage-plans-budapest-mover.html
OTP Bank Nyrt.,  Hungary ’s largest
lender, fell the most in four months on concern that a potential
government move to change the terms of foreign-currency loan
contracts will hurt its  earnings .  The shares fell 3.6 percent to 4,847 forint by the close in
Budapest, the biggest decline since March 18. Turnover amounted
to 168 percent of the three-month daily average. The benchmark
BUX stock  index  fell 1.5 percent.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s cabinet is looking at the
possibility of retroactively modifying the conditions of
foreign-currency loans later this year, Deputy Prime Minister
Tibor Navracsics said in a HirTV interview late yesterday. OTP
plunged 36 percent in 2011 when the government forced banks to
take losses by allowing clients to repay foreign currency loans
early at below-market rates.  “Although the details aren’t known, we expect that the
cabinet is preparing an intervention of the same caliber as the
early repayment of 2011,”  Akos Kuti , Budapest-based head of
research at broker Equilor Befektetesi Zrt., wrote in a report
today. “Such a possibility would substantially reduce banking
earnings.”  ‘Faulty’ Mortgages  OTP jumped 4.4 percent on July 4, when Hungary’s highest
court ruled that one of the bank’s foreign-currency mortgage
contracts was valid. The next day, Orban said courts aren’t
dealing with the “central issue” of whether foreign-currency
loans are “faulty” products.  “The key problem in Hungary though has been how the
government has gone about trying to resolve the issue of FX
loans, adopting a less than inclusive approach with banks, and
often imposing solutions,” Timothy Ash, the chief emerging-markets economist at Standard Bank Group Ltd. in  London , wrote
by e-mail today on Navracsics’s comments.  OTP shares have advanced 17 percent in 2013, outperforming
a 6.9 percent gain by the BUX index. OTP is trading at 0.9 times
its book  value , compared with 1.8 for PKO Bank Polski SA,
Poland’s biggest lender and the third-lowest among 16 eastern
European banks tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  