-- House Passes Delay of Major Provisions in Health-Care Law
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2013-07-18T17:17:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/house-republicans-vote-to-delay-provisions-in-health-law.html
The Republican-led U.S. House voted
to postpone two significant provisions of the Affordable Care
Act, President  Barack Obama ’s signature domestic policy
achievement of his first term.  The measures aren’t expected to advance in the Democratic-controlled Senate. Since its enactment in 2010, the House has
voted 37 times to repeal or defund at least part of the health-care law, including three times to annul the entire measure.  Yesterday, the House voted on a delay in enforcement of the
so-called employer and individual mandates. One bill,  H.R. 2667 ,
passed 264-161 and would postpone until 2015 the requirement
that U.S. businesses with 50 or more workers provide their
employees with health insurance.  It’s meant to codify the Obama administration’s decision to
delay the employer mandate for a year until 2015.  By a separate vote of 251-174, the House passed  H.R. 2668 ,
which would delay by a year the requirement that most Americans
have health insurance by 2014 or pay a fine. The administration
hasn’t sought to postpone that provision.  House Republicans are “refighting these old battles” by
passing the measures, President Barack Obama said today at the
White House. The administration has said the president would
veto the House legislation.  ‘New Competition’  “Health-care costs have slowed drastically in some areas
since we passed the Affordable Care Act,” Obama said. “New
competition, new choices, market forces are pushing costs
down.”  House Speaker John Boehner said today that Obama’s veto
threat and the few Democratic votes for the bills are
“appalling.”  “Democrats are going to have to answer to their
constituents for it,” Boehner, an Ohio Republican, said at a
news conference in Washington.  Among House Democrats, 35 voted with Republicans to delay
the employer mandate and 22 voted to postpone the individual
mandate. One Republican, Morgan Griffith of  Virginia , voted
against both bills.  After yesterday’s vote, Boehner and Senate Minority Leader
Mitch McConnell, a Kentucky Republican, urged Senate Majority
Leader Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat, to take up the
legislation.  ‘Pointless Pandering’  “It is pointless pandering,” said Senate Budget Committee
Chairman Patty Murray, a Washington Democrat.  The measures are intended to bolster lawmakers’ talking
points for the five-week congressional recess that starts in
August. Republicans ran against the health-care law in the 2010
midterm elections, which helped them win a majority in the
House.  The administration announced July 2 that it would delay the
employer mandate until 2015. House Republicans have scheduled
three committee hearings this week on the Affordable Care Act.  The Obama administration said in a statement that the
measure to delay the employer mandate is “unnecessary,” and
legislation postponing the individual requirement “would raise
health insurance premiums and increase the number of uninsured
Americans.”  Taken together, the two bills would “cost millions of
hard-working middle-class families the security of affordable
health coverage and care they deserve,” according to a
statement of administration policy by the Office of Management
and Budget.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in  Washington  at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  