-- Housing Slowdown Makes Bank Stocks More Attractive
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-07-17T14:14:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/housing-slowdown-makes-bank-stocks-more-attractive.html
Canadian bank valuations have
plunged in the past four years amid a slowdown in the housing
market, making the country’s lenders including  Toronto-Dominion
Bank (TD)  and Bank of  Nova Scotia  more attractive to investors.  Bank stock values closely track resale  home prices , which
rose at the slowest pace in almost four years last month, a
Bloomberg chart shows. As a result, Canadian lenders are trading
at about 11 times earnings, down from almost 19 in September
2009.  “We think the banks are really cheap,” David Baskin,
president of Baskin Financial Services, whose Toronto-based firm
oversees about C$500 million ($482 million) including bank
shares. “People will become more comfortable with the Canadian
housing market again and they’ll recognize that these fears were
overblown.”  Bank stock valuations have been a leading indicator to the
changing pace of resale home prices since 2009, Bloomberg data
show. The ratio of stock price to earnings for  Canada ’s eight-largest lenders soared in February 2009, about three months
ahead of a surge in the growth of home prices, according to
Bloomberg data. Bank stocks were most expensive at the end of
September 2009, while home prices peaked in May 2010.  Banks Index  The chart is based on the year-over-year growth of the
Teranet-National Bank Home Price  Index (TNBHICY%)  and the price-to-earnings
ratio for the Standard & Poor’s/TSX Commercial Banks Index. The
index is comprised of  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) , Toronto-Dominion,
Scotiabank, Bank of Montreal, Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce,  National Bank of Canada (NA) ,  Laurentian Bank  and  Canadian
Western Bank. (CWB)   The price-to-earnings ratio of the banks index has fallen
to 11.1, from a high of 18.6 in September 2009. The annual
growth of Canadian home prices has followed a similar trend,
declining to 1.8 percent last month from 12.7 percent in May
2010, according to the Teranet-National Bank index. Bank shares
are cheaper than three years ago amid a slowdown in home price
gains and prospects of rising borrowing costs.  Bank stocks will quickly regain their value when it becomes
clearer to the market that housing has bottomed out and starts
showing improvement, said  Mario Mendonca , an analyst with
Canaccord Genuity, a Toronto-based firm that charted the
correlation between bank valuations and home prices in a June 17
note to clients.  ‘React Aggressively’  “Bank stock valuations will recover,” Mendonca said in a
July 10 telephone interview. “What I’m suggesting is it will
not be a gradual thing: bank stocks will react really
aggressively.”  Banks shares are already starting to rally. The eight-member banks index has risen in four of the past five  weeks ,
gaining 3.3 percent over that time.  “I’d expect to see bank valuations move up again,”
Franklin Templeton Investment’s David Tuttle said in a July 12
interview from Toronto. “The price-to-earnings chart for the
banks is currently trending well below where it had been for the
last 10 years, and that is a reflection of a slower growth
economy.”  Spokesmen for the eight Canadian banks either declined to
comment or didn’t immediately provide comment on the story.  “The housing market is a reflection of consumer
sentiment,” said Tuttle, a research analyst at Templeton Global
Equity Group, which manages $105 billion in assets. “If the
consumer becomes a little more concerned about economic growth
going forward, you tend to see loan growth come off in a big way
for the banks, which is a huge driver of profitability.”  Shifting Focus  Canadian banks have been shifting focus to business lending
and  wealth management  to counter a slowdown in domestic  consumer
lending , the largest business segment for the firms. Canadian
personal and commercial lending accounted for as much as 68
percent of last year’s profit at  CIBC (CM) , for example, according to
financial statements.  Canadian home resale prices increased last month at the
slowest annual pace since October 2009, led by declines in
Vancouver and Victoria, British Columbia, according to the
Teranet-National Bank index. Prices rose 1.8 percent in June
from a year earlier, based on an 11-city composite reading, the
July 12 report by Montreal-based National Bank Financial said.  “That should make people happy,” Baskin said. “That
means there’s less people buying at terribly inflated prices, so
they’re not paying too much and the banks don’t have as much to
worry about, about prices declining.”  ‘Constructive Evolution’  The Teranet report adds to evidence that Canada’s housing
market is becoming a drag on the economy, a slowdown that has
been encouraged by policy makers to quell overbuilding and rein
in borrowing.  Bank of Canada  officials have said there are signs
of “constructive evolution” in household finances.  Canada’s economy will expand 1.7 percent this year -- the
slowest pace since contracting in 2009 -- and 2.4 percent in
2014, according to median forecasts of analysts in a Bloomberg
survey. That lags behind the U.S., whose economy is expected to
expand 1.8 percent in 2013 and 2.7 percent next year, according
to a separate survey.  Economists expect the Bank of Canada to raise  interest
rates  in the fourth quarter of next year, when the overnight
rate will move to 1.5 percent, from 1 percent now, according to
the Bloomberg survey’s median forecast.  Bank of Canada Governor Stephen Poloz kept the main rate
unchanged today at his first policy decision and said there will
be a “gradual normalization” of borrowing costs over time as
slack in the economy disappears and inflation picks up.  Mortgage Rates  Royal Bank raised its  mortgage rates  three times since
June, with rates at 3.69 percent for a five-year fixed  term loan 
compared with 3.09 percent at the beginning of last month.
Toronto-Dominion, Scotiabank and  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  followed with
mortgage rate hikes.  Even as bank valuations have dipped, the banks are still
relatively expensive compared with lenders in other countries,
Franklin Templeton’s Tuttle said.  “Canadian banks do not offer valuations at what we would
consider bargain levels,” he said. “We are finding substantial
opportunities in  Europe  because the valuations are just
screaming cheap there. Even in the U.S. on a relative basis
banks just offer a great deal more value.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  