-- Paulson Witness in Tourre Trial Claims SEC Intimidation
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-07-17T19:58:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/paulson-witness-in-tourre-trial-claims-sec-intimidation.html
A former top Paulson & Co. executive
claimed the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission intimidated
and tricked him when it took his testimony in 2008 as part of
its investigation into the transaction at the heart of its civil
fraud case against Fabrice Tourre.  “I thought that you were trying to trick me in some way,”
said Paulo Pellegrini, 56, a witness called by the SEC who
quarreled with the agency’s lawyer throughout more than five
hours of testimony. “Yeah, I was scared.”  The SEC sued Tourre and his then-employer, Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., in 2010 over Abacus 2007-AC1, a synthetic
collateralized debt obligation that Paulson, the hedge fund run
by billionaire  John Paulson , used to bet against mortgage-backed
securities. Long investors lost more than $1 billion. Goldman
Sachs, based in  New York , paid a then-record $550 million to
settle the case.  The SEC is trying to convince jurors that Pellegrini and
Tourre, dubbed “Fabulous Fab” by a friend, misled the company
that helped select mortgage-backed securities for the deal into
thinking Paulson planned to take an equity stake in Abacus.
Instead, the hedge fund, which made $15 billion betting subprime
mortgages would fail, planned to short the deal. Pellegrini and
Paulson aren’t defendants.  SEC lawyer Matthew Martens asked Pellegrini about his 2008
testimony that he didn’t have any specific memory of telling
Laura Schwartz, a former ACA Financial Guaranty Corp. executive
in charge of its CDO business, that Paulson was making a purely
short bet on Abacus.  ‘Under Pressure’  “I remember that those are the words I used under pressure
from the SEC,” Pellegrini said.  “Weren’t you just asked questions?” Martens responded.  “Hostile questions, yes, intimidating questions,”
Pellegrini said. He claimed he’d been “tricked” in his SEC
testimony.  “I was not trying to trick you in any proceeding,”
Martens told the witness.  “They were,” Pellegrini responded, appearing to refer to
other SEC lawyers.  ‘Utter Nonsense’  Later, with the jury and the witness outside the courtroom,
Martens told Forrest that Pellegrini’s claims were “garbage”
and “utter nonsense.”  The SEC claims Tourre misled ACA, which lost money on an
investment in Abacus, into believing Paulson was taking an
equity stake in the CDO. Evidence presented by the SEC shows ACA
and Paulson both participated in selecting the 90 mortgage-backed securities behind Abacus. The agency alleges Paulson
selected assets that were doomed to fail and Tourre hid that
information from investors.  Forrest, who already had ruled that Martens could treat
Pellegrini as a hostile witness, allowing him to ask leading
questions, said he could cut Pellegrini off if his answers
continued to be long and unresponsive.  Shortly after calling Pellegrini to the stand yesterday,
Martens asked him: “What does CDO stand for?”  “I’m not sure,” the former Paulson executive said.  “Sir, your testimony is you don’t know what CDO stands
for, is that correct?” Martens asked.  “It may stand for collateralized debt obligations, but I’m
not sure,” he replied.  For a third day, some of the nine jurors struggled with the
testimony about complicated financial transactions.  “We’re losing some of the jurors here who are trying --
valiantly, I think -- both to follow and to stay awake,”
Forrest told the lawyers. She suggested they try to shorten and
focus the testimony, particularly an upcoming stretch of
videotaped deposition testimony.  “I have considered giving people popcorn,” Forrest joked.  After Pellegrini leaves the stand, the SEC will call two
Goldman Sachs employees, Jonathan Egol, the senior member of
Tourre’s former trading desk, and David Gerst, a member of the
Abacus deal team.  The case is SEC v. Tourre, 10-cv-03229, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  