-- Paulson Sees T-Mobile Takeover Target for Dish, Sprint
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2013-07-17T20:16:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/paulson-sees-t-mobile-takeover-target-for-dish-sprint.html
John Paulson , the billionaire hedge-fund manager whose firm is the largest outside investor in  T-Mobile US Inc. (TMUS) , said the company is a likely takeover target for
 Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  or  Sprint Corp. (S)   Paulson & Co., whose biggest fund specializes in buying
shares of companies undergoing mergers, became a 2.3 percent
stakeholder in T-Mobile US when the mobile-phone company merged
with MetroPCS in May. The $17 billion fund firm, which had
bought shares of MetroPCS before the merger, plans to hold the
stake in the new company in anticipation of further
consolidation in the industry, Paulson & Co. said in a letter to
clients, a copy of which was obtained by  Bloomberg News .  “While the merger closed, we continue to hold the stock as
we believe that T-Mobile remains a potential takeover target for
either Dish or Sprint,” the firm, which is based in New York,
said in the letter.  Takeovers of telecommunications companies have heated up
this year as small U.S. carriers look to team up with larger
companies. AT&T Inc.’s agreement to buy Leap Wireless
International Inc. for $1.2 billion, announced this month, adds
pressure on smaller competitors such as Sprint and Dish to bulk
up through mergers and acquisitions of their own.  Satellite-TV company Dish dropped a takeover attempt of
Sprint in June after a boosted offer from rival bidder SoftBank
Corp., which earlier this month completed its acquisition.
Sprint bought wireless-network partner Clearwire Corp. this
month.  Stock Rally  Paulson & Co. is also the third-largest shareholder of  Leap
Wireless (LEAP)  and was the second-largest investor in Sprint before
the takeover by SoftBank.  T-Mobile US, the fourth-biggest U.S. wireless company, has
climbed about 50 percent since buying MetroPCS on May 1, giving
it a market value of $17.8 billion.  Armel Leslie , a spokesman for Paulson & Co. with Walek &
Associates, declined to comment on the letter.  Time Warner Cable Inc. and Cablevision Systems Corp. may
also be acquisition targets, as billionaire  John Malone  is
exploring scenarios for Charter Communications Inc., Paulson
said today at the CNBC Institutional Investor Delivering Alpha
Conference in New York. Malone’s Liberty Media Corp. owns about
27 percent of Charter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Healthy’ Climate  Paulson, who has done well investing in companies
undergoing mergers or restructurings, a strategy where he got
his start as a trader, posted gains this year on investments in
Sprint and Life Technologies Corp., after Thermo Fisher
Scientific Inc. agreed to buy the company. The already
“healthy” environment for mergers and acquisitions should
improve further, he said today at the conference.  Paulson has been hurt by losses tied to bullion after his
PFR Gold Fund fell 23 percent last month, bringing its 2013
decline to 65 percent, according to a July 3 letter to
investors.  Bullion dropped 12 percent in June, the most since October
2008, after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the
central bank may start reducing bond purchases that have fueled
gains in financial markets globally.  Paulson & Co. reduced its allocation to gold miners in its
event-driven Advantage Funds to about 12 percent, according to
the letter, even as it has reiterated its commitment to
investing in gold and stocks of the metal’s producers for
protection against currency debasement as central banks pump
money into the global economy. As recently as the beginning of
last year, bullion-related equities accounted for about one-quarter of the Advantage funds’ gross exposure.  Scaling Back  “While we sustained significant drawdowns from the gold
event portfolio, the sector now accounts for a smaller
percentage of the Advantage portfolio and we believe offers more
upside than downside at current trough valuations,” the firm
told clients.  Paulson, who made $15 billion for his investors in 2007 by
betting against subprime mortgages before the housing collapse,
said the recovery should continue for the next four to seven
years. His firm’s real estate strategy has bought 30,000
entitled lots in  Arizona , Nevada,  Florida ,  Colorado  and
 California , he said at today’s conference. Mortgage-backed
securities also comprise a large portion of his credit funds’
assets, he said.  Paulson, 57, said he expects he will manage money for the
next 20 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  