-- Payday Looms on Dictator’s Defaulted Bonds in Peru: Andes Credit
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y   a n d   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 2013-07-17T18:13:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/payday-looms-on-dictator-s-defaulted-bonds-in-peru-andes-credit.html
Jose Poma was a university student
when his grandfather’s rice plantation was seized in 1971 under
the land redistribution law of Peruvian dictator Juan Velasco Alvarado.  Now a 59-year-old mining engineer in  Lima , Poma is still
waiting for the government to honor the bonds his family
received as compensation for the loss of their 30-hectare (74-acre) holding. Yesterday,  Peru ’s highest court ordered the
government to come up with a plan within the next six months to
repay Poma and his fellow creditors.  How the government repays holders of the defaulted debt has
implications for all of Peru’s bond investors. An association of
2,000 creditors who own the four-decade-old debt says the
securities are worth $4 billion. Former Deputy Economy Minister
Carlos Casas says Peru may have to issue new securities to repay
creditors, boosting the supply of government bonds at time when
they’ve already lost 7.4 percent this year, the worst rout in
 Latin America . Last week, President  Ollanta Humala  urged the
Constitutional Court to delay its decision.  “This debt has been at the bottom of the list of
priorities for successive governments whose position was that
the bonds weren’t worth anything,” Casas, who is now head of
the economics department at Universidad del Pacifico in Lima,
said in a phone interview before the ruling. “Humala can’t like
the thought of paying for what Velasco did.”  Court Ruling  Randa Mussallam, a spokeswoman at the president’s office,
declined to comment on the ruling.  The court gave the government six months to explain how it
will register the debt, establish its value and the forms of
payment. Once it has quantified the value of a bond registered,
the government has eight years to pay its holder with new bonds,
cash or farm land, according to the ruling posted on the court’s
website. The defaulted bond’s value will be calculated in U.S.
dollars and adjusted for accumulated interest, using U.S.
Treasuries as a benchmark.  “If the state is consistent with its debts, it’s evident
that it has no other option but to honor them,” according to
the ruling. The payment “will without doubt have an inevitable
fiscal impact, impossible to be taken on immediately without
damaging significant areas or sectors of the economy. The
payment must be made taking into account principles of
equilibrium, sustainability and budgetary progressivity.”  Fujimori Plan  Adaepra, an association of creditors, filed a lawsuit with
the court in 1996, to press for payment after the government of
 Alberto Fujimori  said two currency changes in a decade had
reduced the value of the entire debt to 17.5 soles ($6.30).
Though the court ruled in favor of the bondholders in 2001, the
government didn’t carry out the sentence, leading them to file a
fresh challenge.  Speculators purchased land bonds in the secondary market,
paying 10 percent to 20 percent of their estimated value, and
are the largest holders of the debt, Santiago Gastanadui, a
member of Humala’s Gana Peru party and the president of
Congress’s constitutional committee, told reporters July 12.  In March 2011, then-Finance Minister Ismael Benavides said
Gramercy Funds Management LLC and UBS AG were among the holders
of the securities. Jose Cerritelli, an economist at Gramercy,
and UBS spokeswoman Megan Stinson declined to comment.  According to yesterday’s ruling, repaying the original
bondholders will take priority over bonds that were transferred
to third parties.  The government paid back some bondholders following the
court’s 2001 ruling, valuing the claims on a case-by-case basis,
Finance Minister Miguel Castilla said in a July 13 interview
with Lima-based Radio Programas.  ‘Huge Damage’  Poma’s family holds its land bonds in a safe-deposit box
and hasn’t pressed the  finance ministry  for payment.  “If they’d paid back when they confiscated the farm, that
would have been the end of it,” Poma said in a phone interview
from Lima before the ruling. “It was theft, and caused huge
damage.”  The  Constitutional Court  must take into account the
potential economic impact of its decision on any further
payments, Castilla said.  “Any event that that may affect the country’s fiscal
stability is a concern for us,” he said.  Richard Francis, an analyst at  Standard & Poor’s  in  New
York , said a ruling that forces the government to pay
bondholders the $4 billion they say they’re owed will have a
minimal impact on Peru’s credit rating. The country is rated
BBB, the second-lowest investment grade.  ‘Very Low’  It “would be manageable,” Francis said in an e-mail.
“The government’s debt level is very low.”  Peru’s public debt of 99.3 billion soles was equivalent to
19 percent of gross domestic product as of March 31, compared
with 46 percent a decade ago.  The economy will expand about 6 percent this year, compared
with 6.3 percent in 2012, according to the finance ministry. The
country’s budget surplus will narrow to 0.7 percent of GDP this
year from 2.2 percent in 2012.  “They’re in a better fiscal position” than in the past,
though “in the short term it’s not the best time,”  Enrique Alvarez , the head of Latin America fixed income at IdeaGlobal,
said in a telephone interview from New York before the ruling.
“Growth has been affected by a clear drop in commodity prices
and a slowdown in domestic spending.”  Velasco, who took power in a bloodless coup in 1968, began
the land redistribution program the following year, seizing
companies’ agricultural holdings and turning them over to worker
cooperatives. In return, landholders received government bonds
with maturities of as long as 30 years and yielding as much as 6
percent.  Yields Jump  About 4,000 landholders were issued bonds worth a total of
17.5 billion soles de oro, Peru’s currency at the time.
Velasco’s successors repaid some of the debt until the currency
was replaced in 1985 by the inti amid surging inflation. Six
years later, the nuevo sol was introduced.  The court ruling comes at a time when borrowing costs are
surging as a drop in copper and gold, which account for half of
Peru’s exports, saps economic growth.  Yields on Peru’s benchmark sol bond due 2020 have climbed
144 basis points, or 1.44 percentage points to 5.11 percent,
from a record low 3.67 percent on April 19, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The 7.4 percent drop in Peru’s local
bonds this year is the biggest among five Latin American
countries tracked by Bank of America Corp.  The extra yield investors demand to own Peruvian  government
bonds  instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed 14 basis points, or
0.14 percentage point, to 160 basis points at 2:11 p.m. in Lima,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Default Swaps  The cost to protect Peruvian debt against non-payment for
five years fell two basis points to 127 basis points, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Credit-default swaps pay the
buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities or
the cash equivalent if a borrower fails to adhere to its debt
agreements.  The sol has depreciated 7.6 percent to 2.7620 per U.S.
dollar this year.  Failure to carry out the court’s ruling risks prompting
bondholders to seek international arbitration to force the
government to pay all debt at once, Casas said.  “The idea will be to push back the cost of repaying the
bonds,” Casas said. “The government won’t accept paying the
entire amount now.”  Luis Huguet, vice president of the bondholder group, said
his members are willing to exchange their bonds for sol-denominated government debt.  “No one is asking for them to pay in cash,” Huguet said
in a phone interview from Lima before the ruling. “What they
need to do is swap the bonds for sol bonds. I don’t know what
they’re waiting for. We’ve been waiting for 40 years. It’s about
time they paid up.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net ;
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net . 