-- PIC Urges Ecobank to Deal With Chairman’s Debt Dispute
-- B y   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2013-07-17T09:08:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/pic-urges-ecobank-to-deal-with-chairman-s-debt-dispute.html
The Public Investment Corp., the
biggest shareholder in  Ecobank Transnational Inc. (ETI) , urged the
largest bank by branches in Africa to resolve a dispute
involving businesses associated with Chairman Kolapo Lawson.  “We have written a letter to the board of directors, a
confidential letter, requesting the board to quickly find time
and space to discuss this matter so we can resolve it
properly,” Daniel Matjila, the chief investment officer of the
Pretoria-based PIC, said by phone today. The PIC didn’t ask that
the chairman be replaced, he said.  The  Central Bank  of  Nigeria  informed Ecobank in April that
Lawson failed to honor a pledge to repay debt owed to the Asset
Management Corp. of Nigeria, the London-based Financial Times
newspaper reported today, citing documents it has seen. Ecobank
owes Amcon 1.2 billion naira ($7.4 million) and Agbara Estates,
of which Lawson is the chairman, owes it 1.6 billion naira, the
FT said, citing people familiar with the matter.  The PIC, which manages more than 1 trillion rand ($101
billion) mostly on behalf of South African civil servants,
bought 20 percent of Lome, Togo-based Ecobank in April last
year.  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED) , a South African bank controlled by
London-based  Old Mutual Plc (OML) , has an option to buy 20 percent of
Ecobank in November. Nedbank Chief Executive Officer  Mike Brown 
declined to comment in an e-mailed response to questions.  Ecobank CEO Thierry Tanoh didn’t immediately respond to an
e-mailed request seeking comment. Austin Osokpo, a spokesman of
Ecobank Nigeria, referred questions to the head office in Togo.
Nabi Souleymane Ouedraogo, the company’s spokesman, isn’t
available, said a person who answered a call to Ecobank’s
headquarters in Lome.  Ecobank’s  shares  have increased 33 percent this year
through yesterday’s close in Lagos, Nigeria for a market value
of 192.5 billion naira. The 10-member Nigerian Stock Exchange
Banking 10 Index has increased 25 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  