-- Polish Output Growth Beats Forecast, Reinforcing Rate-Cut Halt
-- B y   M a r t a   W a l d o c h   a n d   K o n r a d   K r a s u s k i
-- 2013-07-17T12:17:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/polish-output-growth-beats-forecast-reinforcing-rate-cut-halt.html
Polish  industrial output  grew faster
than expected in June, reinforcing the central bank’s case for
halting rate cuts as the economy begins to recover.  Production rose 3 percent from a year earlier in June,
after declining 1.8 percent the previous month, the  Central
Statistical Office  in Warsaw said today. That exceeded the
median estimate for a 1.5 percent increase in a  Bloomberg survey 
of 31 economists. Output expanded 2.8 percent from May and
gained 3.1 percent seasonally adjusted from a year earlier.  The data follow a  report  yesterday showing corporate hiring
increased in June as Poland’s economy struggles to emerge from
its worst slowdown in a decade. The central bank ended its
monetary-easing cycle this month because policy makers “are
convinced a gradual economic recovery will occur,” Governor
 Marek Belka  said after the Narodowy Bank Polski trimmed its
 benchmark rate  to a record 2.5 percent on July 3.  “It’s important to see if the seasonally adjusted growth
rate rebounds from the 1.5 percent decline in May,” Grzegorz Ogonek, an economist at ING Bank in Warsaw, wrote today before
the data were released. Belka’s “forward guidance of unchanged
rates in the coming six months means the market sensitivity to
economic data should be relatively low.”  The European Union’s largest eastern economy will expand
1.1 percent this year, slowing from 1.9 percent in 2012, the
central bank said in an inflation report published July 8. The
government will allow this year’s budget deficit to widen by 16
billion zloty, or about 1 percent of GDP, as it tries to boost
consumption and output, Prime Minister Donald Tusk said
yesterday at a news briefing.  The zloty was little changed after the data, trading at
4.2627 per euro at 2:07 p.m. in Warsaw, 0.2 percent weaker from
yesterday. The  yield  on the 10-year government bond rose three
basis points to 4.102 percent, extending its rise from yesterday
to 18 basis points.  In a separate report, the office said producer prices fell
1.5 percent in June from a year earlier, less than the 1.8
percent median contraction predicted by 27 economists  surveyed 
by Bloomberg. Prices rose 0.5 percent from the previous month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marta Waldoch in Warsaw at 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net   Konrad Krasuski in Warsaw at 
 kkrasuski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  