-- Poloz Likely to Echo Carney About Canada Rate Increases
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-07-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/poloz-likely-to-echo-carney-about-canada-rate-increases.html
Bank of  Canada  Governor Stephen Poloz’s first policy announcement will probably extend the
longest interest-rate pause since the 1950s and keep warning
debt-laden consumers that borrowing costs eventually will rise.  The  benchmark rate  on overnight loans between commercial
banks will remain at 1 percent, where it’s been since September
2010, in a decision at 10 a.m. in Ottawa, according to all 20
economists in a Bloomberg News  survey . Poloz, who took over the
bank last month after running the government’s export-financing
agency, will also release a new growth forecast and hold a press
conference at 11:15 a.m.  Poloz, 57, has said consumers should be aware that interest
rates will ultimately rise, even though robust growth in the
world’s 11th-largest economy won’t arrive until exports and
business spending recover. Modest gains in output and inflation
mean official borrowing costs may not rise until the end of next
year, a separate Bloomberg survey shows.  “The bank is going to remain on hold for an extended
period of time,” said Mazen Issa, Canada macro strategist at TD
Securities in Toronto. “There is no major macro catalyst for
Poloz to alter the bank’s messaging.”  The last decision under Carney on May 29 said a rate
increase would be needed after “a period of time.” All but one
of 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg expect that language to
remain today.  ‘Too Rosy’  The bank’s Monetary Policy Report will probably boost the
forecast for growth this year while cutting it for 2014,
reflecting first-quarter  growth  at a 2.5 percent annualized
pace, Issa said. The bank’s prior report in April called for
growth of 1.5 percent this year and 2.8 percent next year, while
consensus forecasts now show gains of 1.7 percent and 2.4
percent.  “If Poloz wants to make his personal stamp in his
statement it could be in the 2014 growth forecast -- it looks a
little bit rosy,” said  Avery Shenfeld , chief economist at  CIBC
World Markets  in Toronto.  Poloz will resist giving up language about higher rates in
the future because the central bank sees household debt loads as
a potential threat to the economy and “dropping that warning
might give a false impression” to consumers, Shenfeld said.  Household debts were 161.8 percent of disposable income in
the second quarter,  Statistics Canada  said last month, and hit a
record 162.8 percent in the third quarter of last year. Finance
Minister  Jim Flaherty  tightened mortgage rules for a fourth time
last year and has warned about the risks of overbuilding in
Toronto and  Vancouver , the country’s largest and third-largest
cities.  Declining Sales  While  consumer spending  is being discouraged and federal
and provincial governments are reducing budget deficits, the
exports and business investment Poloz is seeking haven’t yet
emerged as a sustainable leader of growth.  Factory sales  have declined 3.2 percent in May from the
same month a year earlier, Statistics Canada reported yesterday,
and weak exports have triggered the longest string of
merchandise  trade deficits  in a quarter century.  While Poloz’s announcement is being published, Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is scheduled to testify before
the House Financial Services Committee in  Washington . Canada’s
dollar has weakened 1.9 percent against its U.S. counterpart
over the last month and government bond yields have climbed on
signs the Fed may begin tapering asset purchases later this year
amid signs of a sustainable recovery. Canada’s benchmark stock
 index  is under-performing U.S. equities for a third year after
seven years of stronger gains.  Stability, Patience  By keeping language about raising rates, Poloz would remain
an outlier among Group of Seven policy makers using
extraordinary monetary policies. Canada’s 1 percent policy rate
is the highest in the G-7.  Still, Poloz’s words suggest any increase is a long way
off. In his first public speech June 19, he said what the
economy needs most is “stability and patience” as Canadians
wait for business spending and exports to improve.  Companies are biding their time. The central bank’s
measures of business sales and investment optimism declined in
its last quarterly survey of executives released last week.
Thorsten Heins, chief executive offices of Waterloo, Ontario-based BlackBerry Ltd., asked investors for patience at the
company’s annual meeting this month, following a surprise
quarterly loss.  For Poloz, “it’s a matter of letting Mother Nature do her
usual job,” he told reporters after his speech. “We have
already set the table;  interest rates  are low, there is plenty
of stimulus in the system.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  