-- Poloz’s First Decision Sees Normalization of Canada Rate
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-07-17T21:35:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/poloz-s-first-decision-sees-normalization-of-canada-rate.html
Bank of Canada Governor Stephen Poloz kept his main  interest rate  unchanged at his first policy
decision and said there will be a “gradual normalization” of
borrowing costs over time as slack in the economy disappears and
inflation picks up.  Policy makers led by Poloz kept Canada’s  benchmark rate  on
overnight loans between commercial banks at 1 percent for the
23rd consecutive announcement in Ottawa today, as forecast by
all 20 economists in a Bloomberg News  survey .  “As long as there is significant slack in the Canadian
economy, the inflation outlook remains muted, and imbalances in
the household sector continue to evolve constructively, the
considerable monetary policy stimulus currently in place will
remain appropriate,” the bank said in a statement. “Over time,
as the normalization of these conditions unfolds, a gradual
normalization of policy interest rates can also be expected.”  Poloz, 57, is counting on exports and business investment
to accelerate growth in the world’s 11th-largest economy through
2015 with consumers weighed down by near-record debts. The first
rate decision by the former head of Canada’s export-financing
arm echoed themes laid out by his predecessor  Mark Carney , who
said in May that rates would rise after “a period of time.”  “It’s still overall dovish in its leaning, they still
retain the rate hike guidance but they use different language to
explain it,” said  Derek Holt , Scotiabank’s vice president of
economics in Toronto. “The bank is on hold into 2015 and I
still see the tail risk as later rather than sooner.”  ‘Nuanced’ Changes  JPMorgan Chase & Co. pushed back its forecast for a policy
rate increase by three months to the fourth quarter of 2014,
citing “nuanced” wording changes “that appear to be slightly
more dovish than previously,” senior economist Sandy Batten
said in an e-mail.  Poloz said the bias statement isn’t meant to be a sign that
borrowing costs are about to rise.  “What we’re trying to explain is what the natural process
of getting home will look like,” Poloz said at a press
conference following the report’s release. “It’s not some sort
of attempt to signal anything except to explain what things will
look like if all things go according to our projection.”  In an interview on Canadian Broadcasting Corp., Poloz said
“for the time being, nothing will happen to rates,” adding
that “a soft landing is emerging” in the country’s housing
market.  The Canadian dollar was trading at C$1.0402 per  U.S. dollar 
at 5:30 p.m. in Toronto, 0.3 percent weaker than late yesterday.
One dollar buys 96.14 U.S. cents. Government bond yields fell,
with the benchmark  2-year note  dropping 2 basis points to 1.10
percent.  Currency Trading  Policy makers cut a reference to the Canadian dollar’s
“persistent strength” as they reduced the assumption for its
value to 96 U.S. cents from 98 U.S. cents, in line with its
recent trading range.  Poloz declined to comment on the currency’s decline at the
press conference earlier today.  “We’d prefer not to offer a running commentary on the
dollar,” Poloz said. “There’s no question Canadian companies
continue to face competitive headwinds in the export space.”  The  Bank of Canada  raised its economic growth forecast for
this year to 1.8 percent from an April prediction of 1.5
percent, while lowering the 2014 projection to 2.7 percent from
2.8 percent. Both figures exceed Bloomberg consensus forecasts
of 1.7 percent and 2.4 percent.  ‘Choppy’ Growth  Poloz retained predictions that the economy will reach full
output and inflation will reach the bank’s 2 percent target in
mid-2015, adding that growth will be “choppy” over the next
few months because of events such as flooding in  Alberta  and a
construction strike in  Quebec . Growth slowed to a 1 percent
annualized pace in the second quarter and will be 3.8 percent in
the July-to-September period, the bank forecast.  The  inflation rate  in May was 0.7 percent, following the
0.4 percent reading in April that was the slowest since the end
of the last recession three years ago. Consumer prices have been
below the central bank’s 2 percent target for a year.  The exports that make up about a third of the economy won’t
return to a pre-recession peak until the second half of 2014,
the central bank said, citing weak global demand and companies
that lack competitiveness.  Canada ’s economy has “material excess capacity” that
equaled about 1.25 percent of gross domestic product in the
second quarter, the central bank said.  Some companies are struggling to build their capacity and
sales.  Domtar Corp. (UFS) , a Montreal-based pulp and paper
manufacturer, slumped the most in more than two months on July
12 following an unexpected second-quarter operating loss as
maintenance costs increased and pulp productivity fell.  China Risk  The Bank of Canada added weak growth in  China  and other
 emerging markets  to today’s list of risks to their outlook,
along with  Europe ’s debt crisis, a possible surge in U.S. demand
and imbalances in the finances of Canadian consumers.  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  tightened mortgage rules for
a fourth time last year and has warned about the risks of
overbuilding in Toronto and  Vancouver , the country’s largest and
third-largest cities. Existing home sales rose 3.3 percent in
June, almost matching the previous month’s gain that was the
fastest in more than two years, according to a July 15 the
Canadian Real Estate Association report.  Poloz said today he’s “comforted” by recent data.
“Indebtedness appears to have peaked and has rolled over,
credit data have slowed significantly,” he said.  “As I read the situation right now, the new data we have
from the housing sector are just as consistent with the soft
landing as they might be with a rebound,” Poloz said. “It’s in
that sort of gray zone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  