-- Pound Jumps as U.K. Policy Makers End Push for More Bond Buying
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   E s h e   N e l s o n
-- 2013-07-17T15:41:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/pound-falls-versus-dollar-before-bank-of-england-meeting-minutes.html
The pound rallied against the euro
after minutes of the  Bank of England ’s latest meeting showed
policy makers voted unanimously against expanding their stimulus
program that tends to debase the currency.  Sterling strengthened versus most of its 16 major peers. In
Governor  Mark Carney ’s first policy meeting,  Paul Fisher  and
 David Miles  dropped their call for an expansion of the asset-purchase program in favor of a strategy involving guidance on
future  interest rates , today’s minutes showed. Gilts dropped as
data revealed U.K. unemployment claims fell at their fastest
pace in three years. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said asset purchases “are by no means on a preset course.”  “It does seem certain that Carney is viewing forward
guidance as a favored policy tool over quantitative easing, at
least for the present time,” said Jane Foley, senior currency
strategist at Rabobank International in London. “In the medium
term, it’s still going to be difficult for sterling to pick up
the pace.”  The pound appreciated 0.6 percent to 86.30 pence per euro
at 4:39 p.m.  London  time after touching 87.11 pence, the weakest
level since March 13. The pound was little changed at $1.5181
after rising as much as 0.7 percent to $1.5268.  Sterling erased gains versus the dollar after Bernanke said
the U.S. central bank’s bond purchases could be reduced more
quickly or expanded as economic conditions warrant.  Yield Difference  The benchmark 10-year  gilt yield  rose three basis points,
or 0.03 percentage point, to 2.29 percent, after falling to 2.26
percent yesterday, the lowest since June 20. The 1.75 percent
security maturing in September 2022 dropped 0.25, or 2.50 pounds
per 1,000-pound face amount, to 95.545. Two-year yields were
little changed at 0.31 percent.  “Given the already large size of the asset-purchase
program, there was merit in pursuing a mixed strategy with
regards to the different policy instruments,” the minutes said.
“The committee’s August response to the requirement in its
remit to assess the merits of forward guidance and intermediate
thresholds would shed light on both the quantum of additional
stimulus required and the form it should take.”  Carney joined the Bank of England on July 1 with a
reputation for policy innovation earned in his previous role as
 Bank of Canada  governor. The unprecedented measure of providing
an indication on the interest-rate outlook followed a signal
from Bernanke that the U.S. central bank may start slowing its
bond-buying program later this year. The Bank of England is due
to announce next month how officials will use forward guidance
when setting policy.  QE Ditched  “Let’s see what form of forward guidance we have in August
as clearly they put QE in the bin,” said  Vincent Chaigneau ,
global head of rates and foreign-exchange strategy at Societe
Generale SA in Paris. “We could have something a bit more
specific. That could support the three- to five-year sector” of
the government bond market, he said.  The yield difference, or  spread , between 10-year Treasuries
and similar-maturity gilts narrowed. The U.K. securities yielded
19 basis points less than their U.S. peers, compared with 27
basis points yesterday, the biggest discount since August 2006.  The Bank of England kept its main  interest rate  at a
record-low 0.5 percent on July 4, left its asset-purchase  target 
at 375 billion pounds and signaled it would keep borrowing costs
low for longer than investors had expected. Policy maker Fisher
said yesterday the unwinding of stimulus in the U.K. may be
“years in the future.”  Unemployment Drops  Jobless claims fell 21,200 in June from the previous month
to 1.48 million, the biggest drop since June 2010, the  Office
for National Statistics  in London said today. Economists
forecast a decline of 8,000 based on the median of 23 estimates
in a Bloomberg survey. Unemployment as measured by International
Labour Organisation standards fell 57,000 to 2.51 million in the
three months through May. The rate was unchanged at 7.8 percent.  The pound has strengthened 2.2 percent in the past three
months, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, as
data showed the U.K. economy returned to growth in the first
quarter and measures of services, manufacturing and construction
all rose in June. The dollar rose 2.6 percent and the euro
gained 3.2 percent, the indexes, which track 10 developed-nation
currencies, also show.  The National Institute of Economic and Social Research
estimates economic growth accelerated to 0.6 percent in the
second quarter.  Gilts handed investors a loss of 2.2 percent this year
through yesterday, according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes.
German bonds declined 0.7 percent and Treasuries fell 2.5
percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Eshe Nelson in London at 
 enelson32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  