-- Putin Warns U.S. Russia Won’t Back Down on Snowden Asylum
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-07-17T15:26:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/putin-warns-u-s-russia-won-t-back-down-on-snowden-asylum.html
President  Vladimir Putin  warned the
U.S. that  Russia  won’t yield to pressure to hand over Edward Snowden, while insisting he won’t allow the fugitive American to
poison ties between the former Cold War foes.  “We won’t behave like many countries are behaving,” Putin
told reporters in the Siberian city of Chita, a day after the
former U.S. security contractor bid for temporary asylum in
Russia. “We are an independent country and we have an
independent foreign policy and we will carry it out. I hope our
partners understand this and respond calmly.”  The Russian leader reiterated a demand that the 30-year-old
American cease activities that would harm U.S.-Russian
relations. Snowden, whose efforts to reach refuge in  Latin
America  have been blocked by the U.S. and its European allies,
is willing to stop revealing secrets and accept all conditions
to win asylum, according to a Russian lawyer advising him.  Snowden’s presence in Russia has heightened tensions with
the U.S. less than two months before Putin and President  Barack Obama  are due to hold a summit in Moscow ahead of a meeting of
Group of 20 nations. The Obama administration has repeatedly
urged the Russian government to expel Snowden to the U.S.  ‘Come Home’  Snowden “should come home and have the courage to come
face the charges against him,” U.S. State Department spokesman
Patrick Ventrell told reporters yesterday in  Washington . “The
Russians know how strongly we feel in this case and how
important it is for him to come home and face justice.”  The fugitive, who exposed classified U.S. programs that
collect telephone and Internet data, lodged an application for
temporary asylum yesterday at Moscow’s Sheremetyevo Airport,
where he’s been holed up in the transit area since arriving on a
flight from  Hong Kong  on June 23.  He’s been seeking asylum around the world as U.S.
authorities press for his return to face prosecution. While
Venezuela, Nicaragua and Bolivia have indicated they’d be
willing to take him, Putin has accused the U.S. of stranding
Snowden in Moscow by putting pressure on other countries to
prevent his travel through their airspace and deny him refuge.  Bolivian President  Evo Morales ’s plane was grounded in
 Austria  and searched while he was flying back from a gas
exporters’ summit in Russia after  France ,  Italy ,  Spain  and
 Portugal  had refused to allow the aircraft into their airspace.  Double Standards  Putin, whose government has cracked down on foreign-supported non-government organizations, including U.S.-funded
vote monitor Golos, accused the U.S. government of hypocrisy by
targeting Snowden.  “Human rights work carries certain risks, but if it’s
conducted under the U.S. umbrella, with its financial or
political support, it’s a fairly comfortable activity,” he
said. “But if you criticize the U.S., that’s much more
difficult and the example with the Bolivian president’s plane
shows that.”  Russian authorities have as much as three months to decide
whether to grant temporary asylum to Snowden. It’s valid for 12
months, after which it can be renewed indefinitely each year,
and allows its holder to travel freely and work in Russia,
according to Anatoly Kucherena, a lawyer who helped Snowden
lodge his application.  Snowden’s intention is still eventually to reach another
country if he can obtain safe passage, Kristinn Hrafnsson, a
spokesman for anti-secrecy group WikiLeaks, which has helped the
fugitive American, said by phone from Reykjavik yesterday.  Three Felonies  Snowden, a former worker for government contractor  Booz
Allen Hamilton Holding Corp. (BAH) , has been charged with three
felonies in connection with the disclosure of top-secret U.S.
National Security Agency programs that collect phone and
Internet data.  In his asylum application, he listed the fear that he’d
face torture or the death penalty if he’s brought back to the
U.S., Kucherena said.  Snowden doesn’t face the death penalty under the existing
espionage and theft charges the U.S. has brought against him.
Each of the three counts has a maximum penalty of 10 years in
prison.  The U.S. has lashed out at Russia and  China  over their
handling of Snowden’s case. The self-governing Chinese territory
of Hong Kong, which Snowden fled to from the U.S., allowed him
to depart for Moscow after refusing an American extradition
request.  ‘Unequivocal Signal’  Senator Lindsey Graham , a South Carolina Republican and a
member of the Armed Services Committee, said the Russian
behavior is “outrageous” and deserves an “unequivocal
signal,” such as a U.S. boycott of the Winter Olympics that
Russia is hosting next year, The Hill newspaper reported
yesterday.  House Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio Republican , said Graham
is “dead wrong” to call for a U.S. boycott of the Olympics.  “Why would we want to punish U.S. athletes, who have been
training for three years to compete in the Olympics, over a
traitor who can’t find a place to call home?” Boehner told
reporters in Washington today.  “International relations are considerably more important
than squabbles between intelligence services,” Putin said
today, expressing the hope that the controversy will blow over.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Chita, Russia at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  