-- Qualcomm Says Tablet Chip Will Build Lead Over Intel
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-07-17T20:36:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/qualcomm-says-tablet-chip-will-build-lead-over-intel.html
Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , the largest seller of
semiconductors for mobile phones, said it’s about to crack the
tablet market, further distancing itself from rival  Intel Corp. (INTC) 
in wireless computing.  The company has begun selling upgraded versions of its
Snapdragon processor line and anticipates the new chips will
appear in 200 phones and tablets, said Raj Talluri, a senior
vice president at San Diego-based Qualcomm. He didn’t provide a
timeframe.  “You’ll see a whole bunch of tablets based on Snapdragon
800 in the market this year,” said Talluri. “There’s a lot of
talk about Intel and tablets. Clearly we see them still being
far behind in mobile.”  The  two  U.S. chipmakers are vying to win customers in
wireless as the computing market, historically dominated by
Intel, shifts to handheld devices where Qualcomm’s technology
has become the industry standard. In tablets, both companies are
chasing Samsung Electronics Co. and  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  Intel is ahead
of Qualcomm, capturing the fifth spot with 6 percent market
share, according to research firm  Strategy Analytics .  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN)  is bigger than both, though the
company said last year that it’s leaving the market for
smartphone and tablet processors.  Revised Design  Intel, the world’s largest chipmaker, said in May that it
revised the fundamental design of its processors for mobile
devices, to better cater to smaller gadgets. It’s also focused
on more energy efficient chips to save battery life.  “We’ve noticed many of our competitors talking more and
more about performance, which is ironic now that Intel is
competitive on power,” said Bill Calder, a spokesman for  Santa
Clara , California-based Intel. As computing capability comes to
phones and tablets, “a balance of overall platform power and
performance becomes increasingly important. This is an area of
Intel’s strength,” he said.  Qualcomm, meanwhile, is adding processing power to make the
phones and tablets it runs more like laptops.  Neither company has made a dent in the other’s main
business. Intel had less than one percent of the market for
smartphone processors at the end of the first quarter, according
to Strategy Analytics. Qualcomm-powered computers from Dell Inc.
and Samsung have suffered price cuts or been removed from
shelves.  Qualcomm’s advantage in tablets is that its technology
combines processing, communications, video, graphics and other
functionality onto a single chip without killing the battery,
Talluri said. Intel doesn’t have that capability, while tablets
like  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad, powered by Samsung-made processors,
split those functions among a number of chips.  ‘Full Suite’  “The only one that’s doing that out there today is
Qualcomm,” said Alex Gauna, an analyst at JMP Securities in  San
Francisco , who has the equivalent of hold ratings on Intel,
Nvidia and Apple and a buy recommendation on Qualcomm. “It’s
got the full suite of solutions.”  Qualcomm  rose  1.3 percent to $62.65 at the close in  New
York , while Intel declined less than 1 percent to $24.15.  Intel reported second-quarter earnings today and Qualcomm
is scheduled to report next week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  