-- Quebec Rail Disaster Seen Jump-Starting Safe Push
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e ,   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .   a n d   G e r r i t   D e   V y n c k
-- 2013-07-17T17:10:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/quebec-rail-disaster-seen-jump-starting-safe-push.html
A runaway oil train that killed
scores of people when it slammed into a Quebec town is bringing
renewed calls on both sides of the U.S.-Canada border for
tougher safety rules for railroads.  Regulators and watchdogs have sought for years improvements
to a common tank car design shown to be susceptible to rupture
when derailed, while labor unions have pushed for a ban on
trains being operated by a single crew member.  Both issues have been cited as potentially contributing to
the July 6 crash of a  Montreal  Maine & Atlantic Railway Ltd.
train that derailed in Lac-Megantic, about 250 kilometers (155
miles) east of Montreal. The accident incinerated 30 buildings
in the town’s center and killed as many as 50 people. Canadian
investigators are still probing the cause of what is the
nation’s worst rail disaster in more than a century.  “Major disasters like this often reveal regulatory
failures or highlight gaps in regulatory coverage,” said Katie
Greenhaw, regulatory policy analyst at the Center for Effective
Government, a Washington-based watchdog. “Other times it shows
that there’s lax enforcement of existing regulations.”  In Canada, the opposition New Democratic Party is calling
for a minimum of two crew members on trains carrying dangerous
goods, and a deadline for retiring DOT-111 tank cars, the model
that regulators and watchdogs have repeatedly cited and was used
on the MM&A train. Party member and Canadian lawmaker Olivia Chow said municipalities should also know when and where
dangerous goods are traveling by rail through their towns.  Cost Increase  Regulations on rail shipments of crude oil are likely to
tighten in the wake of the accident, raising operating costs,
Moody’s Investor Service said in a July 11 research note.  “Canadian and U.S. authorities are likely to increase the
regulatory burden on rail shipments of crude and petroleum
products, increasing capital and operating costs for rail
companies,” according to Moody’s note. “Past rail accidents
and catastrophic oil spills have led to strong and costly new
regulations.”  CSX Corp. (CSX)  Chief Executive Officer Michael Ward today
fielded a question from an analyst who asked whether the Quebec
accident may lead to more regulation.  CSX Reaction  “They’re still investigating what the cause of it is, and
I think until the cause is known it’s a little hard to speculate
whether there would be additional regulations or not,” Ward
said on a conference call after the Jacksonville, Florida-based
company reported second-quarter results. “I’m hopeful that as
they determine the cause of this, if there’s something to be
learned to make us safer, we want to learn from that.”  Labor unions in both countries say they plan to redouble
efforts to convince regulators to ban one-person train crews.
The MM&A train was operated by a single engineer, who parked the
train for the night and left it unattended. A second person can
ensure procedures are followed in operating and parking trains.  In the U.S., while no regulation or law bans the use of
one-person rail crews, regulations dictating what the engineer
and conductor do in the locomotive effectively prohibit the
practice. Collective bargaining agreements between more than a
dozen rail-worker unions and the railroads who employ them have
kept two operators in most trains running in the U.S.  Union Plans  Some short-line and non-union trains run with a single
operator, and larger railroads in collective bargaining have
sought support for one-person crews.  “Rail safety is not just an employee issue,” said James
Stem, national legislative director for the Sheet Metal, Air,
Rail and Transportation union’s transportation division, which
was formerly the United Transportation Union. “Rail safety
impacts every community that railroads go through.”  Stem said his union, which represents railroad conductors,
and the Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers and Trainmen, may
re-file a petition with the U.S. Federal Railroad Administration
asking the agency to require multiple-person operating crews
rather than leaving the decision to railroads and unions to work
out at the bargaining table.  “There’s a certain period of time when the event is still
fresh in the mind of the public and action is indeed a
possibility,” said Lloyd Burton, a University of Colorado-Denver law and public policy professor who published a 2011
paper on railroad regulation following disaster.  Operator Error  MM&A owner Edward Burkhardt, who has defended the single-operator model as safer because there are fewer distractions,
blamed the train’s engineer for failing to properly set the
brakes on the parked train. Since the accident, he has said the
railroad would no longer leave trains unattended overnight.  Claiming operator error is a common way for companies and
regulators to deflect responsibility, Burton said. Blaming the
operator shields industries and regulatory agencies from
accident investigations that might result in systemic reforms,
he said.  “Human operator error is typically the first -- and most
agencies and firms hope -- the last organizational refuge after
an accident,” he wrote in the paper. “The logic is that if the
human operator failed in his duties -- to err, after all, is
human -- then the system itself must not be broken.”  Thicker Shells  The accident will renew attention on a  rule  on railcar
design that’s languished at the U.S. Pipeline and Hazardous
Materials Safety Administration, Burton said. The U.S. National
Transportation Safety Board, which can only suggest regulations,
has warned that the 30,000 gallon-tank cars are more prone to
rupture in crashes than other types of tank cars.  The agency recommended thicker shells and other
modifications to strengthen the rail cars. If retrofits couldn’t
be done, the NTSB suggested phasing out the use of the DOT-111
for transporting hazardous materials.  As early as 1994 the Canadian Transport Safety Board cited
the equipment as prone to puncture during a derailment.  The rail industry has opposed requirements to retrofit
cars, saying they could cost as much as $1 billion. The
Washington-based Association of American Railroads has supported
updated rules for new tank cars and worked with manufacturers on
safety improvements.  ‘Closely Monitoring’  “We learn from every accident and use this knowledge to
continuously improve our safety program,” Kevin F. Thompson, a
spokesman for the Federal Railroad Administration, said in an e-mail. “We are closely monitoring the situation in  Canada , and
will continue to learn from the accident as Canadian authorities
complete their investigation.”  In a July 8 statement, then-transport minister Denis Lebel
said he asked the department to “examine any other means of
improving rail safety over the coming weeks, months and years.”  “We have taken concrete action to increase rail safety. In
fact, we have invested over C$100 million ($96.3 million) in
rail safety since 2009,” Lebel said in a July 8 press
conference. Lebel was replaced July 15 by Conservative lawmaker
Lisa Raitt as part of a cabinet-wide shuffle in Canada.  The U.S. Senate Commerce Committee is expecting a report
this year it requested from the Government Accountability Office
reviewing freight rail safety and the agencies that oversee
railroads, said Kevin McAlister, a spokesman for the committee.  Train Control  The disaster may affect the pace of implementing positive
train control technology, a centralized electronic communication
system that keeps trains from speeding or running into each
other. Railroads that operate in the U.S. have a 2015 deadline
to install the technology on about 39 percent of track miles.
The Association of American Railroads, which represents all the
major railroads operating in the U.S., has asked for a delay to
the deadline, saying the demand for the equipment will outstrip
supply between now and then.  “A lot went wrong and a lot of lives have been lost and
things are going to change,” said Steven Paget, an analyst
based in Calgary with FirstEnergy Capital Corp. “There is going
to be increased public attention on rail transportation.”  The Association of American Railroads considers it
“premature to speculate about how and if this accident could
influence future regulations or changes to railroad operating
procedures,” said Holly Arthur, a spokeswoman. The group will
follow investigators’ findings, she said.  Effective Regulation  “Railroads have long told investors that safety is good
business,” Anthony Hatch, an independent analyst based in New
York who has tracked railroad companies for almost three
decades, said in a telephone interview. “You cannot afford to
have derailments on the main line take the main line out of
service for any period of time. You’re eating up capacity. If
you’re running unsafe, you’re running a very costly railroad.”  A disaster points to the need for effective regulation
before more people are killed or injured, said Greenhaw, with
the Center for Effective Government.  “The important thing is to not forget to urge our
policymakers to provide these safeguards, sufficiently provide
resources for the agencies that need to implement these
safeguards so we don’t forget about them until a situation like
this happens,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net ;
Gerrit De Vynck in Toronto at 
 gdevynck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  