-- Queensland Wins Eighth Straight State of Origin Rugby Series
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-07-17T14:40:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/queensland-wins-eighth-straight-state-of-origin-rugby-series.html
Queensland beat New South Wales 12-10 last night to win a record-extending eighth straight State of
Origin rugby league series.  Johnathan Thurston and Justin Hodges scored tries and
Thurston kicked four points for Queensland at Sydney’s ANZ
Stadium. The visitors secured a 2-1 victory in  Australia ’s
annual interstate contest after rebounding from a 14-6 loss in
Game 1 six weeks ago.  The Maroons held on for the win after having a try
disallowed with just over two minutes left, when Blues defenders
were obstructed by security guards who ran onto the field to
tackle a streaker.  “The boys did a great job to hold on there,” Queensland
captain Cameron Smith, who was named player of the series, said
in a televised interview with Channel Nine. “It just keeps
rolling on. We’re just very fortunate to be involved with some
wonderful players at this period in time. I can’t wipe the smile
off my face.”  New South  Wales  got tries from James McManus and Trent
Merrin, James Maloney converting the second.  “When you work so hard for something and you fall short,
it’s heart-breaking,” captain Robbie Farah said. “We weren’t
clinical enough.”  Queensland, which started its unprecedented sequence of
series victories in 2006, ended its three-match losing run at
ANZ Stadium in front of a crowd of 83,813, the biggest Game 3
attendance in Origin history. They included members of the
visiting Manchester United soccer squad, who face the A-League
All Stars in an exhibition game at the same stadium on July 20.  Organizers said the Origin series recorded the biggest
attendance in the event’s history with a total of 215,883 fans
at the three games, surpassing the previous mark of 203,309 set
in 2004.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  