-- R&A to Examine All-Male Golf Clubs Following British Open
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-07-17T15:33:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/r-a-to-study-issue-of-single-sex-golf-clubs-after-british-open.html
The Royal & Ancient Golf Club, which
governs the sport outside the U.S. and  Mexico , will study the
issue of all-male clubs after questions about Muirfield hosting
this year’s British Open.  Peter Dawson , chief executive of the R&A, faced numerous
queries today on Muirfield’s all-male membership in his annual
press conference at the Open, which begins tomorrow. The club in
Gullane,  Scotland , is one of three in the Open rotation with no
women members.  “We will have a look at what people are saying and try to
take a view about all of this and find the most sensible way
forward,” Dawson said. “We understand it’s a polarizing issue.
We’ve been through polarizing issues and you eventually come out
with a conclusion.”  When asked for the difference between men-only and whites-only clubs, Dawson said it was “absurd” to think gender issues
in membership policies were the same as those set along racial
or religious lines.  “Oh, goodness me, I think that’s a ridiculous question, if
I may say so,” he said. “There’s a massive difference between
racial discrimination, anti-Semitism, where sectors of society
are downtrodden and treated very, very badly indeed. And to
compare that with men’s golf clubs, I think, is frankly absurd.
There’s no comparison whatsoever.”  Individual Clubs  Single-sex clubs are allowed under U.K. law and Dawson said
they are a small minority, with half of them being women-only.
He added that the R&A believes membership policies are a matter
for each individual club.  “I don’t really think that a golf club, which has a policy
of being a place where like-minded men or, indeed, like-minded
women, go and want to play golf together and do their thing
together ranks up against some of these other forms of
discrimination,” Dawson said. “It’s just a way of life that
some of these people like. And realistically, that’s all it is.
You can dress it up to be a lot more, if you want.”  Scottish First Minister  Alex Salmond , who played with  Phil Mickelson  in the Scottish Open pro-am last week, has said he
won’t attend the Open this year to protest Muirfield’s
membership. He welcomed the news the R&A will study the issue.  “For the organizers of golf’s oldest major championship to
undertake this is a step in the right direction, which will also
be welcomed by everyone who loves the game,” Salmond said in a
statement. “Scotland is proud of its tradition as the home of
Golf. However, if we are to be the future of this great game it
is only right we have equality between men and women.”  In addition to political pressure, Dawson said, the media
and interest groups have been “attacking” the R&A and the
Open.  ‘Resist’ Pressures  “To be honest, our natural reaction is to resist these
pressures, because we actually don’t think they have much
substance,” he said. “But I’d like to stress we’re not so
insular as to fail to recognize the potential damage that
campaigns like this can to the Open Championship. And it’s our
championship committee’s responsibility to do what is best for
the Open.”  Dawson didn’t say when any discussion on gender issues
would take place or specifically be addressed.  “I’m absolutely not going to pre-empt what’s going to come
out of this,” he said. “I wouldn’t even want to call it a
review, but we’re very conscious on the disparity of view on
this subject.”  Men Only  Royal Troon in Scotland and Royal St. George’s in  England 
are the other clubs among the nine in the Open rotation with
all-male memberships.  Augusta National Golf Club, which hosts the  Masters
Tournament  each April in Augusta,  Georgia , admitted its first
female members in August, ending almost a decade of scrutiny.
The U.S. Golf Association and the PGA of America, which run the
 U.S. Open  and  PGA Championship , respectively, don’t allow those
majors to be played at all-male clubs.  “When things are a bit quieter after the championship, I’m
quite sure we’ll be taking a look at everything to see what kind
of sense we can make of it for the future,” Dawson said. “But
I think right now our concentration has to be on this wonderful
event and making it a success.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch at the British Open in Gullane, Scotland, at
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 