-- Raytheon Warhead Didn’t Separate in Missile-Defense Test
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-07-17T19:01:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/raytheon-warhead-didn-t-separate-in-missile-defense-test.html
The U.S. missile-defense test that
failed to intercept a target this month was stymied when a
 Raytheon Co. (RTN)  warhead didn’t separate from its booster rocket
during the final flight stage, a Pentagon official said.  The $214 million test on July 5 replicated the altitude and
speed of a North Korean missile and was the longest-range
interception yet attempted, Vice Admiral James Syring, head of
the  Missile Defense Agency , told a congressional panel today.  The test involved the first use of an Aegis-class
ballistic-missile vessel to detect and track the target fired
from the  Marshall Islands . It passed data to personnel from the
Army’s 100th Missile Defense Brigade who fired the interceptor
from a silo at Vandenberg Air Force Base in California.  The Pentagon has failed to achieve a successful
interception using the ground-based system since December 2008.
The two previous tests, in 2010, used a newer warhead from
Waltham, Massachusetts-based Raytheon than the one in this
month’s launch. Eight of 16 ground-based tests have failed since
they began in 1999.  On July 5, “every part of the system worked as designed up
to the failure” of the warhead to separate from the booster
rocket, Syring told the Senate Defense Appropriations
subcommittee in the first public discussion of the failure’s
cause.  Separation Failures  The separation failure marked the third time that has
occurred in the 16 tests, Philip Coyle, a former head of
Pentagon testing, said in an e-mailed statement.  Syring didn’t discuss why the hit-to-kill warhead failed to
separate. The malfunction is being assessed in a failure-review
board that may take as long as four months to complete.  The ground-based system of 30 interceptors in Alaska and
 California , managed by  Boeing Co. (BA) , had been in a testing hiatus
after the previous two failures with the new warhead. Syring
said today that the new version is scheduled to be tested in
March.  Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel has said that successful
testing of the new warhead is a prerequisite for the Pentagon’s
plan to add 14 more interceptors in Alaska by 2017 to the 30
already in place there and at Vandenberg to counter what U.S.
officials say is an advancing North Korean threat.  The added interceptors, built by  Orbital Sciences Corp. (ORB) ,
would cost about $75 million each, Syring said. The cost to
expand the missile defense shield comes to $1 billion when funds
to improve silos at Fort Greely in  Alaska  are included.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  