-- Treasury Yields Touch 2-Week Low as Bernanke Eases Taper Concern
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-07-17T21:19:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/treasuries-rise-after-bernanke-says-asset-purchases-not-preset.html
Treasury 10-year yields fell to the
lowest level in two weeks after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  signaled no imminent exit from the central bank’s
quantitative-easing program.  U.S. government debt rose for a third day as Bernanke
addressed the House Financial Services Committee, saying in
prepared testimony the program’s asset purchases “are by no
means on a preset course” and could be reduced more quickly or
expanded as economic conditions warrant. Bernanke will testify
before the Senate tomorrow. Treasuries extended gains as starts
of new U.S. homes unexpectedly fell in June to the lowest level
in almost a year.  “The market was pricing in tapering by September, but
Bernanke has calmed the markets down,” said Jason Rogan,
director of U.S. government trading at Guggenheim Partners LLC,
a New York-based brokerage for institutional investors. “We
seem to be still on pace for tapering, but the scope of the
tapering and how aggressive the Fed will be is still up in the
air.”  The benchmark  10-year yield  fell four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 2.49 percent as of 5 p.m.  New York  time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. It touched 2.46
percent, the lowest since July 3. The price of the 1.75 percent
security maturing in May 2023 gained 11/32 or $3.44 per $1,000
face amount to 93 19/32.  Yields on the 10-year note rose to 2.75 percent on July 8,
the highest since August 2011, from a 2013 low of 1.61 percent
on May 1. They remain below the  five-year average  of 2.74
percent.  Volume, Volatility  Treasury trading  volume  at ICAP Plc, the largest inter-dealer broker of U.S. government debt, rose 42 percent to $363.2
billion, the highest level since July 5, from $256.16 billion
yesterday. The 2013 average is $320.3 billion.  Volatility in Treasuries as measured by the Merrill Lynch
Option Volatility Estimate MOVE Index was at 81.92, the lowest
level since June 17. The figure is down from 117.89 on July 5,
the highest since December 2010. The one-year average is 64.6.  Treasuries have lost 2.6 percent this year, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes, amid speculation that the
Fed may begin to slow asset buying under its quantitative-easing
strategy.  U.S. government debt  gained 2.2 percent last year.  El-Erian’s View  The  term premium , which measures the risk of holding
longer-dated bonds by incorporating investors’ outlook for
inflation and growth, was at the most expensive levels in almost
a month. The gauge was at 0.19 percent today, the lowest level
since June 20, after touching 0.46 percent on July 5. The figure
averaged 0.40 percent in the decade before the 2007 financial
crisis. A declining number means investors are demanding less
compensation to own the securities. A negative number means the
securities are overvalued.  The yield on the 10-year note could return to 2.2 percent
this year, Mohamed El-Erian, co-chief investment officer at
Pacific Investment Management Co., said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” with  Betty Liu . Markets
“took the tapering too far.”  The Fed “will be holding its stock of Treasury and agency
securities off the market and reinvesting the proceeds from
maturing securities,” Bernanke said in today’s statement. The
strategy “will continue to put downward pressure on longer-term
 interest rates , support mortgage markets and help to make
broader financial conditions more accommodative.”  ‘Data Dependent’  If the economy improved faster than expected, and inflation
rose “decisively” back toward the central bank’s 2 percent
target, “the pace of asset purchases could be reduced somewhat
more quickly,” he said. The committee would also be prepared to
increase the pace of purchases, if warranted.  The Fed chairman “suggests tapering of QE will really be
data dependent, as opposed to them just trying to get out of the
QE business,” said Gary Pollack, who manages $12 billion as
head of fixed-income trading at Deutsche Bank AG’s Private
Wealth Management unit in New York, before the report.  Work began on  836,000 houses  at an annualized rate last
month, the least since August 2012 and down 9.9 percent from a
revised 928,000 pace in May, figures from the Commerce
Department showed in  Washington . The reading was weaker than
projected by any economist in a Bloomberg survey, and permits
for future projects also declined.  The Fed’s Beige Book business survey said the  U.S. economy 
maintained a “modest to moderate pace” of growth in recent
weeks, bolstered by industries from housing to manufacturing.  ‘Highly Accommodative’  Bernanke said July 10 the U.S. needs “highly accommodative
monetary policy for the foreseeable future,” after last month
saying the central bank may begin to slow its $85 billion in
monthly bond purchases this year and end it mid-2014. The
minutes of the Fed’s last policy meeting showed participants
divided over the future course of purchases. The policy-setting
 Federal Open Market Committee  next meets July 30-31.  The Fed’s asset-buying programs, begun in 2008, have lifted
its balance sheet to  $3.5 trillion  from below $1 trillion five
years ago. That has triggered concern that buyers will be hard
to replace once the Fed begins to exit.  “The quantitative-easing policy is not on a preset course
-- that’s resonating,” said  George Goncalves , the head of
interest-rate strategy at Nomura Holdings Inc., one of the 21
primary dealers that trade directly with the Fed. “There’s
still some optionality about how they are going to do it and to
what extent. The more they sound dovish is the more the market
is pricing in that it may not be as big.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  