-- Treasury Note Yield Rises From Week Low Before Bernanke Speaks
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-07-17T10:58:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/treasury-10-year-yield-near-week-low-before-bernanke-testimony.html
Treasuries were little changed amid
speculation Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will seek
to manage investor expectations for stimulus reduction when he
testifies in Congress today.  Benchmark 10-year  yields  were about three basis points from
the lowest in a week before reports today that economists said
will show gains in housing starts and building permits.
Bernanke, who will appear before U.S. House members in
 Washington  today and senators tomorrow, has said the  Federal
Open Market Committee  may start reducing its $85 billion in
monthly bond purchases later this year, assuming economic growth
meets the Fed’s predictions.  “The difference today is that Bernanke has to express the
view of the FOMC as a whole as opposed his to personal views
expressed last week,” said  Marc Ostwald , a rates strategist at
Monument Securities Ltd. in  London . “The divergence of opinions
on the FOMC is quite large. We’re trying to find out what the
new range is for Treasuries. The range has to be wider given
there is so much uncertainty” over Fed policy, he said.  The 10-year yield increased one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 2.55 percent at 6:53 a.m.  New York  time,
Bloomberg Bond Trader data showed. The rate dropped to 2.51
percent yesterday, the  least  since July 5. The 1.75 percent note
maturing in May 2023 slid 3/32, or 94 cents per $1,000 face
amount, to 93 1/8.  Treasury yields have fallen from near the highest in two
years after Bernanke said last week that “highly accommodative
monetary policy for the foreseeable future is what’s needed in
the  U.S. economy .” Kansas City Fed President Esther George said
yesterday she expects stronger growth as early as 2014.  The Fed chief’s prepared testimony will be released at 8:30
a.m. in Washington and the hearing will begin at 10 a.m.  Fed Tapering  “Bernanke is trying to get a message over to markets about
what the tapering in Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities
might mean,” said  Tony Morriss , the head of interest-rate
research at  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  in
Sydney. “It’s simply reducing the amount of Treasuries and MBS
the Fed buys, it’s not like they’re ending it right away.”  Commerce Department data today will show  housing starts 
rose to a 960,000 annualized rate last month from a 914,000 pace
in May, according to the median estimate of economists surveyed
by  Bloomberg News . That would be the most since March.  Building
permits (NHSPATOT)  climbed to a 1 million annualized pace in June from a
revised 985,000 rate in the previous month, a separate survey
shows.  The cost of living in the U.S., as measured by the  consumer
price index , rose in June by the most in four months, according
to a Labor Department report yesterday. The annualized rate
increased to 1.8 percent, indicating inflation is advancing
toward the Fed’s 2 percent goal.  Data ‘Solid’  “We are certainly expecting that the data is going to
remain solid,” said Adam Donaldson, head of debt research at
Sydney-based  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , the nation’s
largest lender. “Recovery is self-sustaining, and we will be
seeing a consistent strengthening spreading from the housing
sector through the rest of the economy.”  The rate on benchmark U.S. government debt will climb to
2.62 percent by the end of 2013, according to the weighted
average forecast in a Bloomberg poll of economists. CBA’s
Donaldson sees the 10-year yield at 3 percent by Dec. 31.  “If unemployment falls as expected and inflation moves
toward the 2 percent goal, then reducing the pace of purchases
in September and ending them next year is appropriate,” Kansas
City Fed President George said yesterday.  Yield Spread  Bank of England Governor  Mark Carney  and European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi  have signaled in separate statements
this month that the benchmark rates of the two central banks
will remain at record lows. The Treasury 10-year yield was 102
basis points more than the rate for equivalent German bunds on
July 12, the  biggest gap  since 2006.  The U.S. economy will expand 1.8 percent this year,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. The U.K. may grow 0.95 percent, while the euro-area
economy will shrink 0.6 percent, separate surveys showed.  “This was an unprecedented program and the fact that
they’ve been able to announce the end to it or the impending end
to it without a major dislocation has to be very pleasing for
them,” Deutsche Bank AG co-Chief Executive Officer Anshu Jain
said in a Bloomberg Television interview, referring to the Fed’s
monetary policy. “I daresay without any special knowledge that
the Fed would be delighted with the market reaction.”  Volatility in Treasuries as measured by the Merrill Lynch
Option Volatility Estimate MOVE Index was at 88 yesterday, the
lowest level since June 19. The figure is down from 117.89 on
July 5, the highest since December 2010. The one-year average is
64.5.  Treasury trading  volume  at ICAP Plc, the largest inter-dealer broker of  U.S. government debt , rose 35 percent to $256.2
billion yesterday from $189.2 billion on July 15. The 2013
average is $320 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  