-- Renaissance Co-CEO Mercer Sued by Home Staff for Over Pay
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e   a n d   Z a c h a r y   M i d e r
-- 2013-07-17T18:08:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/renaissance-co-ceo-mercer-sued-by-home-staff-for-over-pay.html
Robert Mercer , co-chief executive
officer of Renaissance Technologies LLC,  was sued by household
staff who said the  fund manager  didn’t pay overtime and docked
wages for not replacing shampoo bottles or straightening
pictures.  Mercer, whose Setauket, New York-based hedge fund had $20
billion in net assets in April, levied “demerits” of as much
as $20 per infraction on workers at his home in Head of the
Harbor, New York, according to a federal lawsuit filed July 10
in  Central Islip , New York.  Workers lost part of their semi-annual bonuses for
“failing to replace shampoos and other toiletries” when less
than one-third of a bottle remained; “failing to properly close
doors”; and “failing to leave extra towels in the bathroom,”
according to the complaint. Other violations included “failing
to level pictures; leaving cleaning items out” and “improperly
counting beverages,” according to the complaint.  Renaissance Technologies, which employs dozens of math and
physics doctorate-holders, is one of the largest quant funds,
which use mathematical algorithms and computers to identify
trades. Mercer is “one of the top-earning hedge fund
managers,” according to the complaint.  Alba Aguilar, Luis Alzate and Carmen Rodriguez filed the
suit on behalf of as many as 10 current and former employees of
Owl’s Nest Inc., which hires Mercer’s domestic help, according
to the complaint. The workers want back pay for overtime,
recovery of lost bonus payments and other damages in a suit
claiming violations of state and federal labor laws.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for Renaissance at Sard
Verbinnen & Co., didn’t have an immediate comment on the
lawsuit.  The case is Aguilar v. Owl’s Nest Inc., 2:13-cv-3848, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  New York  (Central Islip).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn federal court at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  