-- Trian’s Peltz Says PepsiCo Should Buy Mondelez
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s   a n d   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2013-07-18T14:13:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/trian-s-peltz-says-he-thinks-pepsi-should-buy-mondelez-1-.html
Trian Fund Management LP’s  Nelson Peltz , the activist investor who owns stakes in  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  and
 Mondelez International Inc. (MDLZ) , said yesterday the soft-drink maker
should acquire Mondelez for as much as $67.8 billion.  PepsiCo, the world’s largest snack food maker and second-biggest soda producer, should buy Mondelez for $35 to $38 a
share in an all-stock deal, Peltz said. Mondelez, the Deerfield,
Illinois-based maker of crackers and sweet snacks, closed at
$29.87 on July 16 in  New York  before Peltz’s comments, giving
the company a market value of about $53.3 billion.  “Pepsi is at a crossroads at this time,” with a cash
business in beverages and a growth business in snacks, Peltz,
Trian’s chief executive officer, said yesterday at the CNBC
Institutional Investor Delivering Alpha Conference in New York.
PepsiCo Chief Executive Officer  Indra Nooyi  “inherited a
structure that we don’t think works anymore,” he said in an
interview with  Andrew Ross Sorkin .  Peltz has approached Purchase, New York-based PepsiCo about
buying Mondelez and met often with Nooyi, he said, adding that
“Pepsi doesn’t love the deal” right now.  If PepsiCo declines to buy Mondelez, plan B should be to
separate beverages from the Frito business, he said. Mondelez is
the snacks and coffee business that remained after Kraft Foods
Group Inc. split off last year.  Risky Proposal  PepsiCo doesn’t plan to acquire Mondelez, according to a
person with knowledge of the matter. Buying Mondelez would be
risky for PepsiCo’s shareholders because of Mondelez’s
underperformance and reliance on slow-growth Western European
markets, said the person, who asked not to be identified because
the company’s dealmaking is handled privately.  PepsiCo is also unlikely to split its global beverage
business from its global snacks business, this person said.  “We have a strong growth strategy and structure in place,
and our results to date and returns to our shareholders prove
that we are a high performing company and our strategy is
working,” PepsiCo said in an e-mailed statement. “We are
confident in our ability to deliver long-term  shareholder value 
as an integrated food and beverage company.”  Mike Mitchell, a spokesman for Mondelez, said the company
“regularly engages in meaningful conversations with its
shareholders and looks forward to meeting with Trian to learn
about their perspectives in more detail.”  Skilled Manager  Peltz praised Mondelez CEO Irene Rosenfeld for being a
skilled strategic manager, while criticizing her company’s
margins and its name.  “The name Mondelez I hate,” he said. “It sounds like a
disease.”  The name is a combination of the word “monde,” derived
from Latin for world, and “delez,” an expression for
delicious, according to a press release last year. Kraft asked
employees to suggest names, and more than 1,000 participated.  Kraft realized that the pronunciation of Mondelez wasn’t
easily picked up by everyone, Mitchell said at the time.  “It will take a while to get used to,” Mitchell said
then. “People will learn how to pronounce it, and it will be
good.”  PepsiCo may face increased pressure after Peltz’s comments
and analysis, even though Trian holds less than 1 percent of the
company,  Jack Russo , an analyst for Edward Jones & Co. in  St.
Louis , said yesterday in a telephone interview.  “They are clearly going to take it seriously,” said
Russo, who  recommends  buying PepsiCo. “I’m sure PepsiCo is
pretty outraged he made this public.”  Takeover Proposal  The New York-based money manager Peltz co-founded in 2005
disclosed stakes in Mondelez and PepsiCo in April, feeding
speculation that he would push to unite the food makers.
Relational Investors LLC, run by Ralph Whitworth, and  Bill Ackman ’s Pershing Square Capital Management LP have also
disclosed holdings in Mondelez.  Trian later yesterday released an outline of its proposed
strategy for PepsiCo, detailing the value of the takeover
proposal.  “A separation will create a focused snacks leader
positioned to have its trading multiple re-rated as it delivers
attractive growth and productivity initiatives that hit the
bottom line,” Trian said. “We believe the status quo is
unsustainable. PepsiCo has significantly underperformed over a
prolonged period of time.”  Edward Jones’s Russo said Trian and Peltz scored several
valid points in their analysis. Among them, PepsiCo’s earnings
growth has fallen short of other consumer staples companies and
the snacks business has lost some sales volume as the unit helps
fund marketing for a lagging beverage unit, he said.  ‘Execution Risks’  “Many of us expected some sort of pressure on Pepsi
regarding Mondelez, and here it is,”  Ali Dibadj , an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York, said in an interview.  “We’ve said before that a deal and/or split may make
strategic sense in theory for PepsiCo, but the practical
execution risks may be too great,” said Dibadj, who rates the
shares outperform.  Sorkin reported during the interview that Peltz has built a
stake in DuPont Co., which spurred the stock to close up 5.3
percent to $57.25 in New York. Peltz declined to comment at
least twice on DuPont.  Mondelez advanced 0.5 percent to $30.65 at 10:04 a.m. in
New York for a market value of about $54.7 billion. PepsiCo rose
0.2 percent to $85.42.  Equity Stakes  Activist funds generally acquire equity stakes in companies
and try to force corporate management to make changes that boost
share prices and investor returns. Trian last year successfully
pushed  Ingersoll-Rand Plc (IR)  to sell some of its businesses. The
Swords, Ireland-based maker of air-conditioning systems and
climate-control technologies is spinning off Allegion Plc, the
security unit that sells residential and commercial door locks.  In 2006, Trian waged a six-month proxy fight with H.J.
Heinz Co. to win seats on the board and persuade management to
execute a turnaround plan.  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. and  Jorge Paulo Lemann ’s 3G Capital Inc. bought the maker
of food products from ketchup to infant formula for about $23
billion last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net ;
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  