-- Rodriguez Says He’ll Be in Yankee Lineup July 22 for Texas Game
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-07-18T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/rodriguez-says-he-ll-return-to-yankees-for-july-22-game-in-texas.html
Alex Rodriguez  said he’s planning to
make his Major League Baseball season debut July 22 when the  New
York Yankees  visit the  Texas Rangers , returning from hip surgery
amid a performance-enhancing drug investigation.  “I will be back on Monday and I’m very excited,”
Rodriguez said yesterday in an interview on WFAN Radio.  Rodriguez, who turns 38 on July 27, had left hip surgery in
January. He’s played 10 games during a 20-day minor-league rehab
assignment that ends July 20, after which the Yankees must
decide whether to activate him or again place him on the
disabled list.  Rodriguez is scheduled to move today to Triple-A
Scranton/Wilkes-Barre, one step below the major leagues.  An e-mail seeking comment from Jason Zillo, a spokesman for
the Yankees, on Rodriguez’s return wasn’t immediately returned.
 Brian Cashman , the team’s general manager, said in an  interview
with ESPN  that he hopes Rodriguez will be available for the
Texas series, though “we have to get through the weekend, and
then we will evaluate it.”  Rodriguez, who is fifth on baseball’s career list with 647
home runs, is among players being investigated for alleged links
to a now-closed anti-aging clinic in Florida that the Miami New
Times said provided players with performance-enhancing drugs.  Rodriguez denied  reports  in the  New York  Daily News that
he’s advised his representatives to discuss possible deals with
baseball to limit any suspension.  “No, that’s not true,” he said. “There’s no deal that
I’ve instructed anyone to do at this point.”  He declined to address the matter further.  Rapid Progress  Rodriguez is 5-for-28 during his minor-league stint, with
six strikeouts and one home run -- a two-run shot for the
Double-A Trenton Thunder this week.  “That’s something that I know for sure I couldn’t do in
August, September, October last year,” he said. “I couldn’t
even do that last week, so the progression’s coming very well.”  The Yankees exit the All-Star break tomorrow with a series
at the  Boston Red Sox , who lead the American League East with a
58-39 record. New York is six games back in the division at 51-44, also trailing the Tampa Bay Rays (55-41) and  Baltimore
Orioles  (53-43).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  