-- Rooney Seeks Chelsea Move After Moyes Comments: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-07-17T09:03:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/rooney-seeks-chelsea-move-after-moyes-comments-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Rooney Rankled  Wayne Rooney  has been left “angry and confused” by
comments from manager  David Moyes  about his status at  Manchester
United  and wants to join Premier League rival Chelsea, the
 Daily Mirror  reported.  Rooney has contacted United for clarification of Moyes’s
remarks about him being an understudy to  Robin van Persie , the
newspaper said. The striker has the impression he’s being
“driven out” of United after “five months of negativity,”
the Mirror said.  Comments from Moyes in Bangkok and Sydney on the team’s
pre-season tour, which Rooney is missing because of a hamstring
injury, have left the England forward feeling he is at risk of
becoming a second-choice squad player, the  Independent reported .  80 Million-Pound Man  Chelsea will have to pay as much as 80 million pounds
($122 million) to sign Rooney, the  Sun reported .  Rooney, 27, wants a five-year contract worth 200,000 pounds
a week and the Blues would also have to pay United a transfer
fee of 28 million pounds, the newspaper added.  Barca Needs Cash  Barcelona is said to be willing to sell midfielder Cesc Fabregas to United because the Spanish champion needs the money,
the  Guardian reported .  United, which is yet to hear back from Barca regarding its
26 million-pound bid for Fabregas, is prepared to be patient
over its pursuit of a player coveted by Moyes and may increase
the offer, the newspaper added.  The Red Devils are willing to pay a club-record 31 million
pounds for Fabregas, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Gervinho Interest  Italian Serie A club Roma bid 6.9 million pounds for
Arsenal striker Gervinho, the  Daily Mail reported .  Lyon also is considering an offer for Gervinho, 26, and the
French team may include  France  international midfielder Yoann
Gourcuff as part of the deal, the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  