-- Rudd Home Sale Thwarted as Canberra Market Slows Pre-Vote
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-07-18T00:38:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/rudd-home-sale-thwarted-as-canberra-market-slows-before-election.html
Australian Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd 
bolstered the Labor Party’s standing in the polls after
unseating  Julia Gillard  as leader last month. The victory hasn’t
helped him sell his house in Canberra, where buyers are awaiting
the outcome of a federal election due by the end of the year.  Rudd and his wife, Therese Rein, who listed the property
for sale on May 29, withdrew it this week, agent Shane Killalea
of Peter Blackshaw Canberra, who was marketing the home, said
yesterday. Home sellers in the Australian capital  sought  an
average of 4.8 percent less in the week ended July 16 compared
with a year earlier, even as  asking prices in Sydney , a three-and-a-half hour drive to the north, rose 6.9 percent in the
period, according to real estate-data provider SQM Research Pty.  In a city where a third of workers are government
employees, Canberra house prices could fall sharply if the
 Liberal-National coalition  wins the election and makes good its
promise to cut the number of government workers -- just as it
did when it last won in 1996.  “A sizable correction of over 10 percent is possible over
the next two years,” Louis Christopher, managing director of
Sydney-based SQM, said in a telephone interview.  John Howard , who became prime minister in 1996 when the
coalition won government, cut 10,000 jobs in each of the
following three years, according to a 2011  report  from the
Centre for Policy Development, a Sydney-based research group.  Home prices  in Canberra fell 8.3 percent from March 1996,
to a low in August 1997, while prices jumped 18 percent in
Sydney and 13 percent in  Melbourne  over the same period, figures
from Sydney-based researcher Rismark International show.  Tough Going  “I was selling real estate under Howard and it was tough
going for about 18 months,” said Killalea. “Canberra’s grown
in the past 10 to 12 years, and while there are people who are
sitting on their hands, there are also people taking advantage
to snap up properties.”  Killalea held six open houses since Rudd’s property was
listed for A$2.25 million ($2.06 million), which is more than
four times Canberra’s median price. The home, which includes a
swimming pool, separate butler’s pantry, a gym and Italianate
gardens, was leased this week, Killalea said.  Kathryn Sieper, a spokeswoman for Rudd, confirmed in an e-mail today that the home had been rented.  Rudd, 55, and Rein bought the 465-square-meter (5,005-square-foot) home in the suburb of Yarralumla, a five-minute
drive from Parliament House, for A$2.175 million in September
2010, according to allhomes.com.au, a real estate website. They
moved out at the end of 2011 after their son Marcus completed
his schooling in Canberra, Rudd’s office said in an e-mailed
statement on May 31.  Falling Sales  Completed private home sales in Canberra fell 20 percent to
64 in the week ended July 14 from the week of Feb. 24, when RP
Data began making the data publicly available. In Sydney, sales
rose to 2,044 from 959 over the same period and Melbourne sales
increased to 1,239 from 764, figures from RP Data show.  The  Liberal Party  in January said that if elected it would
 reduce  the government workforce to the size it was at the end of
the Howard government in 2007. There were 66,326 government
employees in Canberra in December 2012, excluding contractors,
compared with 56,648 in June 2007, according to the Australian
Public Service Commission, an agency that oversees government
employees. Rudd defeated Howard in a November 2007 election.  Labor also has committed to cutting jobs, with Rudd
outlining July 16 the elimination of 800 senior positions to pay
for an early transition to a  carbon emissions  trading plan.  ‘Downward Pressure’  “The prospect for weaker employment growth, or even
declines, together with the emergence of an underlying excess of
dwelling stock will create downward pressure on prices,” Angie
Zigomanis, senior manager for residential property at researcher
BIS Shrapnel, wrote in a report dated July 1.  “Nevertheless, Canberra has the highest incomes of capital
cities and affordability is not as strained,” Zigomanis said.  BIS Shrapnel forecasts declines of 5 percent in real terms
by June 2016.  Australia  has eight state and territory capitals.  A Fairfax-Nielsen poll published in the Sydney Morning
Herald newspaper July 15 showed support for the  Labor Party  rose
to 50 percent on a two-party preferred basis from 43 percent on
June 17. The measure gauges the party most likely to form
government under Australia’s preferential voting system.  The recovery in Labor support follows Rudd’s return as
prime minister on June 26 when he defeated Gillard in a Labor
leadership vote, three years after she toppled him in a party
coup. Elections must be held by Nov. 30.  Sheep Paddock  Slower housing activity is at odds with a gradual rise in
the national market after two years of declines.  House and
apartment prices  across the eight capitals rose 3.8 percent in
the year to June 30, compared with a 3.6 percent drop in the
previous year, according to RP Data. That followed 2 percentage
points of central bank  interest-rate cuts  since November 2011,
which pushed down  variable home-loan rates  to the lowest level
since October 2009.  The site of the  national capital , a former sheep paddock in
New South Wales state, was chosen in 1909 in a compromise to
those arguing for either Sydney or Melbourne.  American architect Walter Burley Griffin and his wife,
Marion Mahony Griffin, who had worked for Frank Lloyd Wright in
 Chicago , won an international competition to design the new
city, which was named Canberra in March 1913.  Canberra has a population of 355,600, with the proportion
of workers employed by the government down to 34 percent from 52
percent in 1961, according to the  statistics bureau .  “As jobs rise and fall in the public sector, the housing
market rises and falls,” said  Andrew Wilson , senior economist
at Australian Property Monitors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  