-- Ruling That Struck Down Military Detention Power Rejected
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-07-17T15:30:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/ruling-that-struck-down-military-detention-power-rejected.html
A federal judge’s ruling that struck
down a controversial U.S. military-detention law as
unconstitutional was overturned by an appeals court in  New York 
because the plaintiffs lacked legal standing to challenge it.  A group including former New York Times reporter
Christopher Hedges sued President  Barack Obama  and Secretary of
Defense  Leon Panetta  in January, claiming the law may subject
them to detention for acts protected by the U.S. Constitution,
including writing and advocacy.  U.S. District Judge Katherine Forrest in September struck
down parts of the law which allow for the U.S. to detain people
providing support to al-Qaeda and the Taliban, on the grounds
that it violates the First and Fifth amendments. The government
appealed, arguing that her injunction blocking enforcement of
those provisions, known as Section 1021, posed a threat to
national security.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in New York today overturned
Forrest’s decision in a 60-page ruling and lifted her
injunction, saying that Hedges and another plaintiff weren’t
eligible to challenge the law because it “simply says nothing
about the government’s authority to detain citizens.”  “And while Section 1021 does have a real bearing on those
who are neither citizens nor lawful resident aliens and who are
apprehended abroad, the non-citizen plaintiffs also have failed
to establish standing because they have not shown a sufficient
threat that the government will detain them under Section
1021,” the court said.  Military Force  Section 1021 of the National Defense Authorization Act of
2012 affirmed the president’s authority to detain people under
an earlier law, the Authorization for Use of Military Force,
passed in the wake of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.
Those who may be held include people who “substantially
supported” al-Qaeda and the Taliban.  The case is Hedges v. Obama, 12-cv-00331, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ). The appeal is
12-3176,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Second Circuit
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State  Supreme Court  at 
8969 or  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  