-- Russian Grains Seen Unaffected by Outbreaks of Foot and Mouth
-- B y   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a
-- 2013-07-17T16:10:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/russian-grains-seen-unaffected-by-outbreaks-of-foot-and-mouth.html
Russia ’s grain is safe even
following outbreaks of foot and mouth disease in the cereal-growing south, the country’s food safety organization said.  Russia detected two incidents in the North Caucasus area
and one in the Krasnodar region in cattle at private households
since June, according to the agency, known as Rosselkhoznadzor.
Ukraine halted the transit of grain from Krasnodar until the
situation is resolved, Interfax-Ukraine reported today, citing
Agriculture Minister Mykola Prysyazhnyuk. Foot and mouth is a
highly contagious viral disease of cloven-hoofed animals that
can be fatal to livestock.  “Cattle were not pastured on grain fields,”
Rosselkhoznadzor spokesman Alexei Alekseenko said today by phone
from Moscow. “The virus lives only on vulnerable animals and
cannot practically survive on grain seeds even if it gets onto a
seed surface.”  The North Caucasus and Southern federal districts, where
the outbreaks were found, are Russia’s top grain exporting
areas, together accounting for 35 percent of the national crop
last year. Ukraine’s prohibition won’t affect Russian shipments
because the country will use only its own ports in July and
August this year, said Andrey Sizov Jr., managing director at
Moscow-based agricultural researcher SovEcon.  Russia exported about 500,000 metric tons of grain through
Ukraine in 2011-12, when its total exports were more than 27
million tons, and the amount will be “small” this season, when
exports are estimated at 18 million to 19 million tons, Sizov
said, without elaborating. Russia was the fifth-biggest wheat
shipper after the U.S., the European Union, Australia and  Canada 
in 2012-13, according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow at 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  