-- Russian Investment Unexpecetdly Contracts in June
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-07-17T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/russian-investment-unexpecetdly-contracts-in-june.html
Russian fixed-capital  investment (RUZ1CANY) 
unexpectedly fell the most since February 2010, adding to signs
that the economy is failing to gain momentum.  Investment dropped 3.7 percent in June from a year earlier,
the Federal Statistics Service in Moscow said by e-mail today.
The median estimate of 16 economists in a Bloomberg survey was
for a 0.5 percent increase.  Unemployment (RUUER)  also unexpectedly rose
to 5.4 percent from 5.2 percent in May.  Economic growth in the world’s largest energy exporter is
stumbling to the weakest pace since a 2009 contraction as the
European Union struggles to exit a recession and  China ’s
slowdown saps demand for Russian exports of oil, gas and metals.
 Russia , which is preparing to welcome Group of 20 finance chiefs
for a summit in Moscow this week, has put the issue of long-term
investment as a source of growth on the agenda for its G-20
presidency.  “Data holding near May’s levels suggest the economy
remains weak,” Maxim Oreshkin, chief economist for Russia at
VTB Capital in Moscow, said by phone before the release.  Retail-sales  growth  accelerated 3.5 percent in June from a
year earlier, matching the median estimate 16 economists in a
Bloomberg survey. That compares with a 2.9 percent gain in May,
the smallest in more than three years. Receipts at merchants
rose 1.9 percent on the month, also matching forecasts, the
statistics service said.  Consumer-oriented companies have outperformed Russia’s
broader stock index as rising real wages and  consumer lending 
have helped spur the household consumption that accounts for
about half of the economy. Grocery operator OAO Magnit has
advanced 52 percent this year, while smaller rival Dixy Group is
up 21 percent. The Micex Index of 50 stocks is down 3.8 percent
in 2013.  Real wages rose 6 percent in June from a year earlier, the
statistics service said. Real disposable incomes advanced 2.2
percent. Both increases topped economists forecasts’ in
Bloomberg’s surveys.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  