-- San Miguel Considers Buyback After Shares Slump, Ramon Ang Says
-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p   a n d   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2013-07-17T05:57:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/san-miguel-considers-buyback-after-shares-slump-ramon-ang-says.html
San Miguel Corp. (SMC) , the largest
Philippine company by sales, may buy back its shares after a
newspaper report sank the stock to its lowest level since
October 2010, President Ramon Ang said.  San Miguel  shares  had fallen 6.9 percent at the noon break
in trading in Manila today, heading for their lowest close since
Oct. 22, 2010. The shares pared losses after Ang’s comments and
were trading 2.1 percent lower at 82 pesos as of 1.48 p.m. in
Manila.  Ang said the slump was triggered by a  Manila Times  article
on July 14 that said the International Monetary Fund had warned
the government that the economy faces a risk that a “highly
leveraged conglomerate,” or one part of it, could default on
its debt. Neither the newspaper nor the  IMF report  it cited
identified a particular company.  The article “frightened the investing public,” Ang said
today in an interview in his office in  Manila .  “I will go to the board to protect the investing public,”
he said. “At worst, we can buy back all the stocks and make the
company private.”  “Investors are speculating San Miguel is the conglomerate
being referred to because most of the attributions being stated
in the report fit the company,” Astro Del Castillo, managing
director at First Grade Finance Inc., said.  Manila-based San Miguel is in “a very healthy financial
position,” Ang said, adding that its debt is below lenders’
covenants.  San Miguel’s consolidated net debt was at 239.27 billion
pesos ($5.52 billion) at the end of March, and at a ratio of 3.1
against 12-month earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization, below a multiple of 5 allowed under an
agreement with creditors, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Patterson at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  