-- SanDisk Jumps After Raising Full-Year Revenue Forecast
-- B y   C a l l i e   B o s t
-- 2013-07-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/sandisk-second-quarter-profit-exceeds-analysts-estimates.html
SanDisk Corp. (SNDK) , a maker of flash
memory for mobile devices, rose in extended trading yesterday
after the company raised its forecast for full-year revenue and
gave a projection for sales in the current quarter that was
ahead of analysts’ estimates.  SanDisk may report sales this year of $5.95 billion to
$6.05 billion, a “substantial increase,” on its previous
estimate, Judy Bruner, chief financial officer said on a
conference call with analysts. Revenue for the third quarter may
reach $1.53 billion to $1.58 billion, Bruner said. Analysts had
projected sales of $1.49 billion on average for that period,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Milpitas, California-based company’s stock rose as much
as 7.3 percent to $63.75 in late trading yesterday after
slipping 0.1 percent to $59.44 at the close in New York. The
shares have gained 37 percent this year,  compared  with a 28
percent advance by the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index.  SanDisk has curbed spending on improving factories and
building new ones as the memory-chip industry scales back supply
to stem price declines. The company has said it expects enough
demand to keep prices healthy this year. SanDisk, in a
manufacturing partnership with  Toshiba Corp. (6502) ,  competes  with
Samsung Electronics Co. in the market for so-called Nand flash
memory, chips that act as storage for data in phones, tablets
and some personal computers.  Quality Products  “SanDisk’s costs are probably coming down and they’re
selling into higher quality products,” said Kevin Cassidy, an
analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., who has a buy rating on the
shares.  Adjusted gross margins are forecast to be 47 percent to 48
percent in the third quarter, as the company projects a
continued weakening in the yen, Bruner also said.  “We are seeing strong demand for all key product lines and
we expect supply-demand balance to be healthy,” Bruner said.  Second-quarter profit, excluding some items, was $299
million, or $1.21 a share, helped by sales and buoyed by prices
of chips that remain high as producers limit output increases.
Sales rose 43 percent to $1.48 billion, the company said in a
statement. Analysts on average had estimated profit of 93 cents
a share and revenue of $1.39 billion, according to  data  compiled
by Bloomberg.  “These earnings are a surprise for sure,” said Cassidy.
“SanDisk must’ve had better prices or put more products out.”  A gross margin of 46 percent in the period also bolstered
earnings, said Cassidy, who estimated a margin of 42 percent for
the second quarter.  Net income in the second quarter was $261.8 million, or
$1.06 a share, compared with $13 million, or 5 cents a share, a
year earlier.  Bruner at first-quarter results in April had forecast $5.6
billion to $5.75 billion in sales for the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Callie Bost in New York at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  