-- Saudi Arabia Lifts May Crude Exports to 11-Month High, JODI Says
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2013-07-17T14:59:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/saudi-arabia-lifts-may-crude-exports-to-11-month-high-jodi-says.html
Saudi Arabia , world’s largest crude
exporter, shipped 7.79 million barrels a day in May, the highest
level since June last year when it sold 7.84 million barrels,
according to the Joint Organizations Data Initiative.  The rise in Saudi shipments came as  Iraq , OPEC’s second
largest producer, and Nigeria reported lower exports, while
Asian buyers cut back on Iranian crude imports.  The kingdom shipped 7.44 million barrels a day of crude in
April when it pumped 9.3 million, the initiative known as JODI
said today on its website. Daily production in May advanced to
9.66 million barrels, JODI data showed. Iraq’s shipments fell by
5.3 percent to 2.48 million barrels a day in May, while  Nigeria 
exported 1.91 million, down 192,000 barrels from the previous
month, according to JODI.  “It’s very clear that the Saudis are making up for the
fall of other OPEC producers,” said Kamel al-Harami, an
independent oil analyst based in Kuwait. “With less Nigerian
and Iranian crude reaching the market and refineries back from
seasonal maintenance, it’s normal to see buyers coming to Saudi
Arabia asking for more,” he said today by phone.  Angola  boosted exports in May by 11 percent to 1.73 million
barrels a day while  Algeria , a producer of mostly light crude,
posted a 31 percent fall in its shipments to 529,000 barrels a
day, the data showed. Venezuelan exports rose slightly to 1.69
million barrels in the month, JODI said.  Kuwait, which didn’t submit data for May, exported 2.23
million barrels a day in April, the highest since at least
January 2002, according to its submission today to JODI.
Kuwait’s production in May should be similar to April, said al-Harami, as there were supply disruptions in other producers in
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.  JODI is supervised by Riyadh-based International Energy
Forum and uses statistics supplied by national governments to
compile data on production, imports and exports for oil-producing, consuming nations. The data include crude and
condensates and exclude natural gas liquids.  Libya , Iran, and  United Arab Emirates  also didn’t submit
data for May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Manama at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  