-- Schaeffler Raises $5 Billion to Refinance Holding Company Debt
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o   a n d   T o m   F r e k e
-- 2013-07-17T15:36:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/schaeffler-raises-5-billion-to-refinance-holding-company-debt.html
Schaeffler Verwaltungs GmbH, the
parent of German industrial bearings maker Schaeffler AG, got
3.875 billion euros ($5 billion) of debt to replace financing
from 2009.  The facilities include 2.175 billion euros of term loans
and a 200 million-euro  credit line , according to an e-mailed
statement. Schaeffler is also selling about 1.5 billion euros of
high-yield bonds through its Schaeffler Holding Finance BV unit.  The holding company cut its debt to 3.5 billion euros last
year following the 1.6 billion-euro sale of shares in
 Continental AG (CON) , the Hanover-based tire maker. Herzogenaurach,
Germany-based Schaeffler still owns 49.9 percent of Continental.  The term loans mature in June 2017 and some parts include
the option to use payment-in-kind interest, according to bond
marketing materials seen by  Bloomberg News . BNP Paribas SA,
Citigroup Inc., Commerzbank AG, Deutsche Bank AG, HSBC Holdings
Plc, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  are arranging the
loans, according to the documents.  Christoph Beumelburg, Schaeffler’s senior vice president of
 investor relations , didn’t respond to two telephone calls and an
e-mail seeking comment on the financing.  The proposed notes are subordinated to the debt of
Schaeffler AG, according to a report from Moody’s Investors
Service. It grades the new issue B2, one rank below the B1
rating of the operating company, and five levels lower than
investment grade.  Interest on the notes can be also be paid using additional
debt, said a person with knowledge of the deal, who asked not to
be identified because the transaction is private. The holding
company’s outstanding debt includes PIK financing, the company
 said  in a report last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  