-- Schaeuble Flies to Athens as Merkel Government Resists Debt Cut
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-07-17T22:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/schaeuble-flies-to-athens-as-merkel-government-resists-debt-cut.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  travels to  Athens  today with promises to help Greek
companies as his hosts push for relief from a mountain of public
debt.  In an attempt to boost Greece’s  economy  that has shrunk by
more than a quarter since 2008, Schaeuble will offer 100 million
euros ($132 million) in loans to small and medium-sized
businesses through state-owned lender KfW Group, a German
government official told reporters yesterday.  Prime Minister Antonis Samaras’ government has said its aim
is for creditors to forgive some of the 318 billion euros Greece
owes mostly to euro-region taxpayers and the  International
Monetary Fund . With Chancellor  Angela Merkel  seeking a third
term at Sept. 22 elections, Schaeuble won’t offer  Greece  further
concessions. His mission is rather to encourage the Samaras
government and express support, the German official said.  “There will be no debt cut,” Lars Feld, a member of
Merkel’s council of economic advisers, said in a telephone
interview yesterday. Any suggestion of debt relief being on the
agenda today is “all just speculation,” he said. “Of course,
many are betting on that, especially the Greeks themselves, who
indeed face difficult decisions.  Schaeuble is visiting Greece, the country that sparked the
euro area’s debt turmoil, for the first time since the start of
the crisis in late 2009. He is due to meet with Samaras, Finance
Minister Yannis Stournaras and Development and Competitiveness
Minister Kostis Hatzidakis, as well as members of the German-Greek trade chambers. A press conference with Stournaras is
scheduled for 4.45 p.m. Athens time.  Stournaras said in an interview with Athens-based Imerisia
newspaper published July 13 that Greece’s European partners will
consider ways to cut its debt once a primary  budget surplus  has
been achieved. Schaeuble’s intention is to express confidence in
the Greek government’s resolve to implement the economic reforms
it has pledged to tackle, the German official said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  