-- SEC Said Near Proposal on Disclosure of CEO-to-Worker Pay
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-07-18T16:10:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/sec-said-near-proposal-to-force-disclosure-of-ceo-to-worker-pay.html
Public companies would be required
to disclose how much more their chief executives are paid than
rank-and-file workers under a rule to be proposed next month by
U.S. securities regulators, according to two people familiar
with the matter.  The Securities and Exchange Commission proposal, part of
the 2010 Dodd-Frank overhaul of financial markets, would require
companies to calculate and disclose their CEO’s compensation as
a multiple of median worker pay, said the people, who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the commission’s agenda hasn’t
been made public.  Groups representing corporations oppose the law’s pay-ratio
mandate, saying the information will be difficult to compile and
isn’t material to investors. Supporters say the data would help
investors monitor CEO pay and employee morale.  The SEC could vote to introduce the regulation as soon as
Aug. 21, said one of the people. If the proposal is approved,
the vote would open a lengthy public-comment period before the
commission would vote on a final version.  SEC Chairman Mary Jo White, who took office in April, has
vowed to reduce the backlog of rules her agency was required to
write under Dodd-Frank. SEC spokesman Judith Burns declined to
comment.  Proponents of the rule, including unions and activist
investors, say mandatory disclosure would help inform
shareholders on advisory “say-on-pay” votes at companies’
annual meetings. Across the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of
companies, the average multiple of CEO compensation to that of
rank-and-file workers is 204, up 20 percent since 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The numbers are based
on industry-specific estimates for worker compensation.  Partisan Divide  The Dodd-Frank mandate has divided Democrats and
Republicans in Congress. Democrats have prodded White to move
forward with a proposal, while the Republican-controlled House
Financial Services Committee voted June 19 to repeal the
provision.  Business groups such as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce have
questioned the costs imposed by a rule, information that must be
considered by the SEC in any rulemaking.  Thomas P. Quaadman, vice president of the Chamber’s Center
for Capital Markets Competitiveness, said business groups asked
the SEC last year to hold a roundtable to solicit views before
proposing a rule. Some large public companies say the data
required to produce the ratio will be difficult to compile and
could lead to misleading comparisons about executive pay between
companies.  ‘Straight-Jacket Approach’  “If they take a straight-jacket approach, you are not only
going to have a bad rule, but it could harm investors,”
Quaadman said in a phone interview yesterday. “It’s the type of
rulemaking that has not passed legal scrutiny before.”  The AFL-CIO has told the SEC it could reduce the costs of
compliance by allowing companies to calculate median pay using
statistical sampling. The union also insists foreign and part-time workers should be included in any calculation, said Brandon Rees, acting director of the AFL-CIO’s office of investment.  “We believe sampling addresses implementation concerns
that have been raised by companies in a way that is consistent
with the intent of the act and provides meaningful information
to investors,” Rees said in a phone interview.  The HR Policy Association, an opponent of mandatory pay-ratio disclosure, said it plans to solicit comments from its
members, human resources executives at about 335 large
corporations, when the proposal is made public.  ‘Not Helpful’  “The Center continues to believe that the pay ratio
provision should be repealed, because the cost of developing the
information would far outweigh the benefits,” Timothy J. Bartl,
president of the group’s advocacy arm, the Center On  Executive
Compensation . “Most investors believe it would not be helpful
information.”  The SEC also is weighing a vote earlier in August to adopt
a proposed rule that would strengthen audits of broker-dealers,
the people said. The proposal, which wasn’t required by Dodd-Frank, grew out of the SEC’s response to  Bernard Madoff ’s Ponzi
scheme. The five-member commission could vote on the matter as
soon as Aug. 7, one of the people said.  The two-year-old proposal mandates an audit of a broker’s
compliance with SEC rules for maintaining custody of a
customer’s securities and cash. The proposal also calls for a
registered public accounting firm to review the broker’s
controls for assuring compliance with those rules.  Once adopted, the broker-dealer rule would facilitate the
 Public Company Accounting Oversight Board ’s authority under
Dodd-Frank to set the standards for and oversee the audits of
broker-dealers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  