-- Senate Crisis Averted Where Clinton Impeachment Planned
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2013-07-17T12:47:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/senate-crisis-averted-where-clinton-impeachment-planned.html
The brinkmanship and personal
recrimination pointed to a Senate in crisis.  After weeks of deadlocked partisan talks over President
Barack Obama’s choice to run a consumer financial protection
bureau born of the worst recession since the Great Depression,
Democratic leaders threatened to strip Republicans of their
power to block  Richard Cordray ’s confirmation.  The two parties retreated July 15 behind closed doors in
the Capitol’s Old Senate Chamber, an enclave used in modern
times for planning President  Bill Clinton ’s impeachment trial.  “Phone call after phone call after phone call” had failed
to settle the dispute, said Senator  John McCain , an  Arizona 
Republican, and the frayed outlines of a deal reached two days
earlier had to be “resurrected” in that late-night session.  In the end, Democrats thanked Republicans for a solution
that saved both Cordray’s confirmation and the decorum of the
Senate.  “John McCain is why we are where we are,” Majority Leader
 Harry Reid  of Nevada said on the Senate floor. “No one was able
to break through but him.”  Senators credited their three-hour session with restoring a
sense of collegiality and mutual understanding.  “What happened last night was that having the collective
body there all intensely listening to each other -- and you
could hear a pin drop -- it enabled people to understand the
differences in viewpoints,” said Senator  Jeff Merkley , an
Oregon Democrat.  ‘A Void’  “Whenever we come to the floor normally we are speaking to
a void, we are speaking to a camera, we are speaking to our
constituents but there’s no one there to listen to us among our
colleagues,” Merkley said.  “Monday night was a magical night,” Senator  Joe Manchin ,
a West Virginia Democrat, said today on  MSNBC ’s “Morning Joe”
program. “So much history was coming out as members spoke, and
you could tell they genuinely wanted to make it work.”  In the end, the Senate voted  66-34  to confirm Cordray for
the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau -- with Republicans
casting all the opposing votes as McCain and 11 others supported
the deal with the Democrats.  The package requires Obama to withdraw two disputed
nominees for the  National Labor Relations Board  and replace
them. The White House quickly accepted, offering Nancy Schiffer,
a former top lawyer for the AFL-CIO, and Kent Hirozawa, counsel
to NLRB Chairman Mark Gaston Pearce.  ‘Turning Point’  “The caucus was the turning point,”  New York  Senator
 Charles Schumer , the chamber’s third-ranking Democrat, told
reporters yesterday. “I think both leaders saw and everybody
saw that we were so close it would be a shame to have an
Armageddon if you will when we were so close.”  Senate Democratic leaders dropped their threat to make a
unilateral rule change to prevent the Republican minority from
blocking the president’s executive appointments. Such a move by
Democrats could have halted legislative movement in the chamber.  “Crisis has been averted,” Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  said yesterday, adding that he expects the new NLRB
nominees to be voted on before lawmakers’ August recess.  For weeks, the Kentucky Republican had given floor speeches
accusing Reid of breaking his word not to change the rules this
session. Reid finally struck back on the floor July 11 in what
became a brutal day of accusations and a threat to follow
through on the maneuver unless nominations started moving.  Informal Talks  The effort to defuse tensions was already taking place
behind the scenes. Senator  Bob Corker , a Tennessee Republican,
said he and three other Republican senators -- McCain,  John Hoeven  of North Dakota and  Lamar Alexander  of Tennessee --
informally talked for weeks with Democrats, particularly Schumer
and other leaders, about potential resolutions.  Though the outlines of the plan were reached July 13, the
proposal “hit a speed bump” and had to be “resurrected,”
McCain said, without giving details.  The deal is similar to an offer McConnell made to Reid last
week in which he suggested Cordray could be confirmed if
structural changes were made to the consumer agency. He also
called for the White House to withdraw Block’s and Griffin’s
nominations.  Dozens of senators spoke at the meeting, according to
lawmakers who attended. Alexander led off, criticizing
Democrats’ claims that Republicans were tying Obama’s hands with
confirmation delays as the Senate ushered through judicial
appointments and other members of Obama’s second-term cabinet.  Compromise Efforts  Corker said he outlined ways that he has been able to forge
compromises, even in the minority, because of the 60-vote
requirement. He pointed to his pivotal role in helping craft a
$38 billion border-security proposal that was the linchpin in
last month’s passage of a comprehensive immigration bill.  Of about 20 Democrats who spoke, leaders including Schumer
and  Richard Durbin  of Illinois talked bluntly about their
frustration with months-long delays on nominees. Senator  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat, made clear that he would vote
against the so-called nuclear option of a rule change.  Levin, who is retiring at the end of next year, told
reporters yesterday that he was prepared to vote against Reid’s
plan to change the rules.  “If the majority can change the rules at any time, like
they do in the House, then you don’t have any rules,” he said.  Senator Jeff Flake, an Arizona Republican, said holding the
meeting in the Old Senate Chamber created an environment that
helped ease tensions -- as senators were playing to no audience
besides each other.  ‘Great Debates’  “You have to consider this is where some of the great
debates of our time took place, back when the Senate was in a
golden age with Clay, Calhoun and Webster. And you can see
 Thomas Jefferson  sitting there, presiding over it as vice
president,” Flake said. “It’s tough not to be moved.”  It takes 60 votes to end the delaying tactic known as a
filibuster, and Democrats control 54 of 100 Senate seats. A
change in the rules for ending filibusters wouldn’t be a first;
in 1975, senators reduced the number of votes needed to end the
obstruction tactic from 67 to the current 60.  McCain and others said the low approval rating for Congress
-- just 17 percent in the last Gallup poll -- put pressure on
senators to reach a deal to allow the confirmations to go
forward. The June 1-4 poll of 2,048 adults had a margin of error
of plus or minus three percentage points.  ‘Tiny Hint’  “There seems to be tiny hint of a little bit of
bipartisanship in the air in Washington,” said Anita McBride, a
former assistant to ex-President  George H.W. Bush  and now the
executive-in-residence at the Center for Congressional and
Presidential Studies at American University. “Americans are
pretty wary of the two sides not talking to each other. Maybe
the winds are blowing slightly differently.”  Republicans, including Corker and  Susan Collins  of Maine,
said it’s unlikely that lawmakers will clash over nominations
and the nuclear option again during this session of Congress.  “How many times do we need to go through this?” Collins
said with a laugh.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  