-- Shekel Weakens From 2-Month High as Bank of Israel Buys Dollars
-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 2013-07-17T09:29:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/shekel-weakens-from-2-month-high-as-bank-of-israel-buys-dollars.html
Israel ’s shekel weakened the most in
more than a week after the  Bank of Israel  bought dollars to stem
a rally that took the currency to a two-month high.  The shekel depreciated as much as 0.6 percent, the biggest
drop since June 28, to 3.5814 a dollar. The currency was trading
at 3.5738 at 12:09 p.m. in Tel Aviv after the central bank
bought an estimated $35 million, according to Eytan Admoni, head
of the international department at  Bank of Jerusalem (JBNK)  Ltd. in Tel
Aviv. Bank of Israel spokesman Yossi Saadon declined to comment.  The Bank of Israel intervened yesterday after the shekel
strengthened 0.5 percent to 3.5593 a dollar, taking it below its
level on May 13, the day the regulator unexpectedly cut  interest
rates  and announced a program to buy foreign currency to limit
the rally. The shekel has appreciated 4.5 percent in 2013, the
best performer among 31 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “Local and foreign investors are continuing to find the
shekel attractive, prompting the central bank to intervene in an
effort to moderate the pace of the currency’s appreciation,”
Admoni said. “It will be hard for the central bank to reverse
the trend of the shekel’s gains as the country’s interest-rate
differential with its trading partners lures inflows.”  The central bank has lowered its base lending rate to a
three-year low of 1.25 percent, compared with near-zero rates in
the U.S. and 0.5 percent in the euro region.  ‘Aggressive’ Intervention  The Bank of Israel restarted a foreign-currency purchase
program in April to limit the shekel’s appreciation because it
makes exports less competitive. Israel relies on exports for 40
percent of economic output. Under the program announced in May,
the regulator said it will buy $2.1 billion by the end of 2013.  The central bank’s Deputy Governor Karnit Flug has served
as interim governor since  Stanley Fischer  stepped down at the
end of June.  Jacob Frenkel , who served as Bank of Israel
governor between 1991 and 2000, was nominated by Prime Minister
 Benjamin Netanyahu  and Finance Minister Yair Lapid to replace
Fischer.  The shekel’s appreciation took it to 83.8 against the
currency basket on July 15, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg. The surprise interest rate cut on May 13 occurred
when the rate was around these levels and this “increases the
likelihood for another rate cut and for more aggressive FX
intervention by the central bank,” Modi Shafrir, chief
economist at Tel Aviv-based I.L.S. Brokers Ltd., wrote in an e-mailed note today.  Frenkel’s appointment is still subject to the approval of a
committee that vets senior civil-service appointments, as well
as the Cabinet. Israel’s attorney general will start a probe
into the nomination after Haaretz reported that Frenkel was
briefly detained seven years ago, the Justice Ministry said
yesterday.  The yield on the government’s 4.25 percent bonds maturing
in March 2023 fell one basis point, or 0.01 of a percentage
point, to 3.75 percent, the lowest on a closing basis since June
17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in  Tel Aviv  at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  