-- Shoprite Slides Second Day on Sales Slowdown: Johannesburg Mover
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 2013-07-17T15:36:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/shoprite-slides-second-day-on-sales-slowdown-johannesburg-mover.html
Shoprite Holdings Ltd. (SHP) , South
Africa’s largest food retailer, headed for its biggest two-day
decline in more than five months after second-half sales slowed
amid weaker consumer spending in its domestic market.  The stock fell as much as 5 percent and traded 1.1 percent
lower by the close in Johannesburg. That extended its two-day
retreat to 5.8 percent, the most since January. The 180 rand
share price was the lowest since July 5.  Shoprite total sales growth declined to 10.4 percent in the
six months through June, compared with 13.8 percent in the
previous half-year period, the Cape Town-based company said in a
statement yesterday.  Shoprite trades at 27.6 times reported earnings, compared
to 19.2 times on the benchmark  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH) ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The retailers have been priced for perfection, and this
isn’t perfection,” said Warwick Lucas, an analyst at Imara SP
Reid in Johannesburg, which has a hold rating on Shoprite.
“High unemployment and weaker consumer demand will make it hard
for retailers like Shoprite to pass through costs.”  South African economic growth slowed to 0.9 percent in the
first quarter, the weakest since a 2009 recession, as rising
joblessness curbed consumer spending. The unemployment rate
climbed to 25.2 percent in the first quarter from 24.9 percent
in the previous three months, as the labor force expanded and
the retail, finance and construction industries cut jobs.  Massmart Holdings Ltd. (MSM) , the South African retailer
controlled by Wal-Mart Stores Inc., also said July 9 that sales
growth slowed during the first half of the year amid a downturn
in consumer spending.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  