-- Singapore Exports in Longest Slump Since Global Crisis: Economy
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2013-07-17T04:53:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/singapore-exports-fall-8-8-in-longest-slump-since-global-crisis.html
Singapore ’s exports in June extended
the longest run of declines since the global financial crisis,
suggesting economic growth last quarter may have been less than
the government initially estimated.  Non-oil domestic  exports  slid 8.8 percent from a year
earlier, falling for a fifth month, the trade promotion agency
said in a statement today. The median of 17 estimates in a
Bloomberg News  survey  was for a 5.8 percent drop.  While Singapore’s  economy  grew at the fastest pace in more
than two years last quarter as services strengthened and
manufacturing rebounded, improvements haven’t been matched in
shipments to the U.S. or Europe. China’s Commerce Ministry said
today it will release measures to support trade “soon,” as
nations from South Korea to Malaysia reported export weakness,
and the Asian Development Bank yesterday trimmed forecasts for
growth in developing Asia.  “External headwinds remain strong,”  Irvin Seah , a
Singapore-based economist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd., said
before the report. “Data from the U.S. have been mixed and
Europe is still stuck in recession.”  The Singapore dollar was little changed at S$1.2625 against
the U.S. currency as of 12:50 p.m. local time. The currency has
weakened about 3 percent in the past six months even as the
central bank maintained a policy of allowing gradual gains.  ‘Delayed’ Recovery  Demand from the U.S., Europe and Japan stands out for its
“weakness and that is still a cause for concern,” said  Alvin Liew , a senior economist at  United Overseas Bank Ltd. (UOB)  in
Singapore. “The recovery process for exports, especially for
electronics, could be delayed.”  Singapore’s gross domestic product rose an annualized 15.2
percent in the three months through June from the previous
quarter, when it grew 1.8 percent, the Trade Ministry said July
12. The figures were computed largely from data in the first two
months of the quarter, and revisions will be released in August.  The island’s shipments of  electronics  dropped 12.4 percent
in June from a year earlier, extending the slump to an 11th
month, today’s report showed.  “The weak growth coming from the advanced economies, the
weak demand, is having a much bigger effect than we had
anticipated,” ADB assistant chief economist Joe Zveglich told
Bloomberg Television’s  Susan Li  in an interview in Tokyo.  IMF Forecast  The  International Monetary Fund  reduced its global growth
forecast this month as the U.S. recovery weakens, China levels
off and Europe’s recession deepens. China’s economy slowed for a
second quarter in the three months through June as growth in
factory output and fixed-asset investment eased and Premier  Li Keqiang  reined in a credit boom.  China’s current trade situation is “severe,” and the
appreciation of the  yuan  has weakened the country’s cost
advantage on products, Commerce Ministry spokesman Shen Danyang
said today.  Bank of Japan  minutes released today from a June meeting
showed policy board members’ view that China has become less
likely to return to a “high growth path.” The  Bank of England 
will release minutes of the first meeting led by Governor  Mark Carney , while all economists in a Bloomberg survey forecast
Canada will leave  interest rates  unchanged at 1 percent.  In the U.S., housing-starts data are due, and the  Federal
Reserve  will release its Beige Book survey of economic
conditions. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will deliver his semi-annual monetary policy report to Congress, followed by questions
from lawmakers. On July 10, Bernanke said that “highly
accommodative monetary policy for the foreseeable future is
what’s needed in the  U.S. economy .”  U.S., Europe  Singapore’s exports to the world’s largest economy fell for
a second month in June, declining 15.9 percent. The U.S. was
Singapore’s fifth-biggest trading partner in 2012 after
Malaysia, the European Union, China and Indonesia. Shipments to
the EU tumbled 33.6 percent. Swings in demand for
pharmaceuticals can make Singapore’s export figures volatile.  Located at the southern end of the 600-mile (965-kilometer)
Malacca Strait, Singapore is home to one of the world’s busiest
container ports. The government has boosted the financial
services and tourism industries to become less reliant on
exports.  The island’s non-electronics shipments, which include
petrochemicals and pharmaceuticals, fell 7.1 percent last month
from a year ago. Petrochemical exports climbed 5.7 percent,
while pharmaceutical shipments dropped 35.4 percent.  The government forecasts exports will rise 2 percent to 4
percent this year and predicts economic growth of 1 percent to 3
percent. Non-oil  exports  rose a seasonally-adjusted 3.2 percent
last month from May, when they dropped 1.1 percent, today’s
report showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  