-- South Africa Marks Mandela’s 95th Birthday With Charity
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2013-07-18T12:39:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/south-africa-marks-mandela-s-95th-birthday-with-charity.html
Thousands of  South Africans  donated
time to charity work today in a poignant commemoration of Nelson Mandela’s 95th birthday as he lies critically ill in a Pretoria
hospital.  President  Jacob Zuma  handed over state-built houses to poor
families and the government asked students to stop lessons and
sing for the former president. The  United Nations  is marking his
birthday with a special session. Mandela, who was jailed for 27
years for opposing white minority rule before leading the
country to democracy in 1994, was hospitalized with a recurring
lung infection on June 8.  “He made it his duty to reconcile all the people of  South
Africa ,” Ahmed Kathrada, who is one of Mandela’s closest
friends, said in an interview in  Cape Town  on July 15. “It was
very hard to see this strong man physically reduced to a shadow
of himself,” Kathrada, 83, said of his visit to Mandela in the
hospital. “We hope and pray that he’s allowed to go home.”  Mandela is responding positively to treatment “and we are
encouraged by the progress he is making,” Zuma, who visited the
former president earlier today, said in a speech in Pretoria.  Mandela, who was jailed from 1964 to 1990, served a single
five-year term as president after his  African National Congress 
swept to victory in the first multi-racial elections. He earned
global praise for urging reconciliation, winning the Nobel Peace
Prize in 1993.  Clinton Speech  In November 2009, the United Nations declared his birthday
Nelson Mandela International Day in recognition of his service
to humanity. Andrew Mlangeni, who was imprisoned with Mandela,
will deliver a speech at the UN session this year, while Ban Ki-moon, the organization’s secretary-general, and former U.S.
President  Bill Clinton  are also due to speak.  “At this difficult time, our thoughts and prayers are with
Mr. Mandela, his family and with all the people of South
Africa,” Ban said in an e-mailed statement today. “We are
united in admiration for a giant of our times.”  U.S President Barack Obama, U.K. Prime Minister  David
Cameron  and Russian President  Vladimir Putin  were among world
leaders to congratulate Mandela.  “We will forever draw strength and inspiration from his
extraordinary example of moral courage, kindness, and
humility,” Obama said in a statement on the White House’s
website. “Through our own lives, by heeding his example, we can
honor the man who showed his own people, and the world, the path
to justice, equality, and freedom.”  67 Minutes  Mandela’s foundation, which promotes the annual charity
campaign, urged people to spend 67 minutes helping others, to
honor the 67 years he spent in public service. The government,
opposition parties, businesses, sports clubs,  radio stations  and
churches participated in initiatives such as fixing run-down
schools and distributing food and clothing to underprivileged
communities.  Streams of well-wishers bearing cards and flowers have
flocked to the hospital where Mandela is being treated and to
his homes in Johannesburg and Qunu in Eastern Cape province,
while countrywide prayer services have been held for him.  South Africans find it very difficult to envision a future
without Mandela, said Sello Hatang, chief executive officer of
the  Nelson Mandela  Centre of Memory.  Giving Hope  “Letting go is a huge challenge,” Hatang said in a July
10 phone interview from Johannesburg. “He gave hope where there
was none. How do you imagine yourself without what has been the
symbol of hope, which has become an integral part of your
identity?”  Mandela retired from public life in 2004 and was last seen
publicly at the final of the soccer  World Cup  in Johannesburg
three years ago. The current stay is the longest of four in the
hospital since December.  On June 26, Zuma canceled a planned trip to  Mozambique 
after doctors said Mandela’s condition had deteriorated. The
former leader was also deemed too ill to receive a visit from
U.S. President  Barack Obama , who was in South Africa on June 27
and 28.  Comments by Mandela’s wife, Graca Machel, on Johannesburg’s
SAfm Radio on July 12 that she was “less anxious” about his
health than a week earlier, have raised hope that he may
recover. This week, Johannesburg-based Eyewitness News cited
 Thabo Mbeki , who succeeded Mandela as president in 1999, as
saying he may be sent home to recuperate.  Mandela’s illness has united the nation, just as his
presidency did, according to Kathrada, who served jail time with
Mandela following their conviction for sabotage in the so-called
Rivonia trial 50 years ago.  “I think people will accept it” when Mandela eventually
passes on, Kathrada said. “People will mourn his loss, but they
will reconcile themselves with time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at   nseria@bloomberg.net  