-- S.Korea Asked Asiana to Improve Safety 2 Months Before Crash
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2013-07-18T10:13:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/south-korea-asked-asiana-to-improve-safety-2-months-before-crash.html
Two months before the fatal crash of
 Asiana Airlines Inc. (020560)  jet in  San Francisco , the South Korean
government asked the carrier to improve pilot training and
strengthen safety measures, a transport ministry official said.  Asiana submitted its plan to the government on improving
its operations after authorities evaluated as many as 15
processes including aircraft maintenance at South  Korea ’s
second-biggest airline, Kwon Yong Bok, director general of
aviation safety policy at the  Ministry of Land, Infrastructure
and Transport , said. The carrier was preparing to implement the
new measures when the accident happened, Kwon said.  “Asiana was growing quickly and we felt there was a need
to make sure proper measures for safety were in place,” Kwon
said in a July 16 interview in Sejong, near  Seoul . “You could
end up putting a lot of pressure on your existing operations if
you don’t adjust them to changes. Asiana had reached a point
where they needed to adopt a new system to support its growth
and ensure safety.”  South Korea plans to tighten aviation rules as the July 6
crash-landing of Asiana’s  Boeing Co. (BA)  777 triggered concerns
about the nation’s safety regulations. The accident also dented
the Seoul-based company’s reputation as one of the top carriers
in the world for service. U.S. investigators are examining the
manual flying skills and cockpit teamwork among the pilots of
Flight 214 as they probe reasons for the crash.  Fleet Expansion  “We are consistently making efforts to improve the safety
of our operations,” Lee Hyo Min, an Asiana spokeswoman, said.
The carrier met with the ministry officials earlier this year on
safety and the evaluation of its operations was carried out
under a joint project with the government, she said. Lee
declined to comment on Kwon’s remarks.  Asiana shares dropped 1 percent to close at 4,710 won in
Seoul, the lowest price since April 2010. The stock has fallen
24 percent this year, compared with a 6.1 percent decline in
 South Korea ’s benchmark Kospi index.  South Korea started the consulting program for airlines
this year as a preemptive step to avoid incidents, Kwon said.
The government evaluated Asiana’s operations between Feb. 6 and
April 30 as the carrier is expected to increase its fleet by 22
percent by 2017.  The plan Asiana submitted to the government included
centralizing the carrier’s aircraft management systems as well
as setting up a department this year to oversee aircraft
maintenance, according to a July 16 statement from the ministry.
The airline also pledged to expand and centralize its safety
inspection team by 2015.  Pilot Evaluations  The airline said it would carry out more inflight pilot
evaluations and strengthen training of its new pilots on planes,
according to the ministry. It will also improve performance
evaluation of all its flights and have a centralized cargo
management.  The ministry also advised two low-fare carriers,  Eastar Jet
 Co. and Jeju Air Inc., in January and in May as they get their
maintenance done from overseas companies, Kwon said.  The government told Jeju Air to ensure that it follows
safety manuals to prevent incidents, the carrier said in an e-mailed response to  Bloomberg News . Two calls to the planning
department at Eastar in Seoul were unanswered.  On July 6, the Asiana Boeing 777 crashed as it struck a
seawall short of a runway at San Francisco International
Airport, slammed to the ground and spun off the tarmac. Three
people were killed while more than 300 survived the wreck, the
first fatal airline accident in the U.S. since 2009.  The plane was coming in too low and had gotten almost 40
miles an hour slower than the target approach speed when its
landing gear and tail struck the seawall, according to U.S.
National Transportation Safety Board Chairman  Deborah Hersman .  Visual Approach  Pilots were being told by air-traffic controllers to use
visual approaches the day of the accident because the airport’s
glide slope, which helps line up the correct path to the runway,
was closed for construction, Hersman said last week.  On July 15, South Korean authorities met the airline’s
officials, Kwon said. After the meeting, Asiana said it plans to
conduct special training for all its pilots on landing on visual
approach and will strengthen training on landing at airports
that lack systems to help planes touch down, according to Kwon.  Asiana also pledged to adopt fatigue risk management
systems and improve communication in the cockpit, Kwon said. The
airline said it will open its second hangar at Incheon airport
next month, which will help increase its aircraft maintenance
capability, according to the official.  Jakarta, Bali  The airline increased the number of flights by 16 percent
and added 10 more planes in the last three years as it expanded
services to the U.S.,  Europe  and other regions, the ministry
said.  Asiana will hire 118 pilots, 100 maintenance staff and 116
cabin crew every year until 2016 as it aims to have 96 planes by
2017 from 79 at the end of last year, the ministry said. The
carrier will receive four more aircraft this year and plans to
add services to Jakarta and Bali in  Indonesia  as early as this
week. It currently flies to 83 cities.  Asiana had the world’s eighth-oldest fleet, with an average
age of 12.6 years, according to a Bloomberg Industries report in
January. Air Arabia had the youngest at 3 years. The Korean
carrier in January 2011 ordered six Airbus SAS A380 superjumbos,
after purchasing 30 A350s from the Toulouse, France-based
planemaker in 2008.  Jeju Island  The July 6 accident was Asiana’s worst since 1993, when a
 Boeing 737  crashed in Mokpo, south of Seoul, killing 66 people,
according to the  National Archives of Korea . Asiana’s previous
disaster was the crash of its cargo freighter in the sea south
of Jeju island in July 2011.  Asiana is one of only seven carriers in the world with a
five-star rating for services from  Skytrax , which also named it
airline of the year in 2010. Emirates Airline was last month
named the best airline in the world by Skytrax and Asiana fifth-best.  “One tends to lose out more if you don’t take preemptive
steps to ensure safety,” Kwon said. “You spend so much time
building your image and integrity, but it takes only one
incident to wipe it all out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vipin V. Nair at 
 vnair12@bloomberg.net  