-- Spain Clean Energy Subsidy Cuts Raise Bankruptcy Risk
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-07-17T13:19:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/spain-clean-energy-subsidy-cuts-raise-bankruptcy-risk.html
Spain ’s cuts to  renewable energy 
subsidies will leave many project developers facing bankruptcy,
four industry lobby groups said.  Industry Minister Jose Manuel Soria’s decision to curtail
profits for power generators by 2.7 billion euros ($4.1 billion)
this year “will lead many installations to bankruptcy because
they won’t be able to repay the credit that financed them,” the
Spanish Photovoltaic Union, or UNEF, said today in a  statement .  The decision announced on July 12 calls for half of the
savings to come from renewable energy generators and cap the
rate of return for the industry at 7.5 percent before tax. That
adds to previous reductions that have slashed state aid to
renewables by as much as 40 percent, the lobby group said.  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s government is seeking to
eliminate a 4.5 billion-euro deficit forecast this year for the
power industry. Renewables had already been hit by a 7 percent
tax on their revenues introduced in December and a suspension of
subsidies to new projects in January 2012. That followed
measures in 2011 that limited the hours for which solar farms
could earn subsidies.  UNEF’s statement was issued on behalf of the National
Association of Producers of Photovoltaic Energy, or ANPIER,
Protermosolar, the industry association for thermal solar
companies and the Association of Producers of Renewable Energy.  The government said the proposed cap on profits amounted to
a “reasonable return” and that rates would be based on “an
efficient and well-managed company.”  The effective returns allowed will amount to 5 percent to
5.5 percent after tax, according to Shai Hill, an analyst at
Macquarie Group Ltd. in  London . That’s below his assessment of
the average cost of capital for larger renewable energy
companies, he said.  The change “has serious implications for owners of
renewable  power plants  and we may see a significant number
defaulting on their loans,” Hill said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  