-- Subway Co-Founder DeLuca Treated for Leukemia, Company Says
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d   a n d   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-07-17T14:51:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/subway-co-founder-deluca-treated-for-leukemia-company-says.html
Fred DeLuca, the president and co-founder of Subway who expanded the sandwich chain to more
locations than  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , is being treated for leukemia.  “We can confirm that Subway Restaurants President and Co-founder Fred DeLuca has been diagnosed with Leukemia and is
currently being treated,” Kevin Kane, a spokesman for Milford,
Connecticut-based Subway, said in an e-mail. “Fred is doing
well and focused on his health right now.”  “The senior management team for the brand continues to
manage the day to day operations of the company and no
significant changes are being made at this time,” Kane said.
Closely held Subway is owned by Doctor’s Associates Inc.  DeLuca, 65, on July 15 sent a voice mail to Subway
franchisees and staff at headquarters to tell them about his
diagnosis, Kane said. The executive has been in contact with the
management team while receiving treatment and everything is
still moving forward, he said. Fred is communicating with
management regularly, although in a reduced capacity while he
focuses on his health, Kane said.  DeLuca said in February he planned to reach 50,000 sandwich
shops in four years as Subway speeds growth abroad. The chain,
which has attracted customers with lower-calorie and reduced-sodium sandwiches, is expanding in Asian markets, he said.
Subway, which is competing with  Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM)  in  India ,  China 
and  Japan , is planning to open 300 stores in each of the nations
during the next three years, DeLuca said.  In 1965, DeLuca opened the first Subway sandwich shop in
Bridgeport, Connecticut. Since then, the chain has expanded
through franchising and has more than 39,600  units  in about 100
countries.  McDonald’s has more than 34,500 locations, according to the
 Oak Brook , Illinois-based company’s most recent quarterly
filing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  