-- Summary of Economic Reports by Federal Reserve District Banks
-- B y   V i n c e   G o l l e
-- 2013-07-17T18:32:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/summary-of-economic-reports-by-federal-reserve-district-banks.html
Following is a summary of U.S.
economic conditions as reported by the 12 Federal Reserve
district banks in the central bank’s latest regional survey,
also known as the Beige Book.  The Federal Reserve Bank of  St. Louis  prepared the latest
report. Information was collected on or before July 8.  BOSTON: “Economic activity in the First District continues
to expand at a moderate pace, according to business contacts.
Retailers, tourism contacts, manufacturers and consulting and
advertising contacts all report modest increases in sales.
Residential real estate contacts report increases in both house
prices and sales. Overall prices are rising at a modest pace,
generally in line with cost increases. Most businesses are
holding employment steady, with substantial staffing changes
only at firms experiencing significant increases or decreases in
sales. Contacts generally expect the recent trend of moderate
growth to continue.”  NEW YORK : “Economic activity in the Second District has
continued to expand moderately since the last report.
Manufacturers indicate that input price pressures have abated
further, whereas service sector contacts report that they remain
fairly widespread; prices of finished goods and services are
stable to up slightly. Labor market conditions continue to
improve gradually, and businesses have become more willing to
negotiate on salary.  Retailers report that sales were on the
soft side in May and especially in June, whereas new automobile
sales are reported to be steady. Tourism activity remains steady
at a strong level. Commercial and residential real estate
markets have continued to firm throughout the region. Finally,
bankers report mixed but generally steady loan demand, no change
in credit standards, continued narrowing in loan spreads, and
further declines in delinquency rates across all loan
categories.”  PHILADELPHIA: “Aggregate business activity in the Third
District maintained an overall moderate pace of growth during
this current  Beige Book  period. In particular, auto sales
accelerated to a strong rate of growth, lending firmed up to a
modest rate of growth, and manufacturing activity appears to
have grown slightly after declining slightly last period. The
growth rate of residential construction, existing home sales,
and general services continued at a moderate pace. Manufacturing
has resumed at a slight rate of growth after declining slightly
last period. An overall outlook for moderate growth has
continued since the last Beige Book. Contacts expressed greater
confidence in the consumer and in the sustainability of current
trends. Firms remain cautious about hiring and about carrying
out their long-term capital expenditure plans. However, firms
are more comfortable investing when necessary to replace or
upgrade aging equipment and to meet growing demand.”  CLEVELAND: “The economy in the Fourth District expanded at
a moderate pace during the past six weeks. Manufacturing orders
and production were steady or higher. The momentum seen in
residential construction since the beginning of the year has
slowed, but activity remains above year-ago levels.
Nonresidential builders experienced a rise in the number of
inquiries and backlogs. Retail sales were lackluster during May,
while new motor vehicle sales posted moderate gains on a year-over-year basis. Conventional and unconventional natural gas and
oil production was stable, and drilling has declined since the
start of the year. Output at coal mines trended lower. Freight
transport volume exceeded projections. Demand for credit
increased slightly. Hiring picked up in manufacturing and
residential construction. Staffing firm representatives reported
that the number of  job openings  and placements was fairly
steady, with vacancies found primarily in healthcare and
manufacturing.”  RICHMOND: “District economic activity strengthened
moderately in recent weeks. Manufacturing shipments and new
orders increased. Consumer spending firmed somewhat and auto
sales remained solid. Services providers also reported steady to
stronger demand. Additionally, tourist bookings were up year
over year. In banking, demand rose for new residential mortgage
lending. Commercial and industrial lending was flat to slightly
higher. Residential real estate sales and construction
increased, with speculative building returning to some areas. In
labor markets, temp hiring picked up, although many firms were
reluctant to hire permanent workers. Average wage growth was
flat to faster, and price changes were mixed.”  ATLANTA: “Reports from Sixth District business contacts
indicated that economic activity expanded at a modest pace in
June and early July. The outlook for the rest of the year
remains optimistic for most firms. Retailers noted mixed sales
results and vehicle sales grew at a robust pace. Most brokers
and homebuilders reported increases in sales and prices, and
declining home inventories. Manufacturing firms indicated that
activity grew, albeit at a slower rate than in our previous
report. Employment growth for the District was modest. Firms
remarked that stable input prices have helped improve profit
margins slightly.”  CHICAGO: “Economic activity in the Seventh District
expanded at a moderate pace in June, and contacts remained
cautiously optimistic about growth prospects in the second half
of the year. Growth in consumer and business spending picked up.
Manufacturing production increased as did construction, led by
continued improvement in the residential sector. Credit
conditions tightened moderately. Cost pressures were again mild,
and wage pressures remained moderate. Crop conditions improved,
with the crop ending the period in better shape than a year
ago.”  ST. LOUIS: “The economy of the Eighth District has
expanded at a moderate pace since our previous report. Recent
reports of planned activity in manufacturing and services have
been positive. Residential real estate market conditions have
continued to improve, and commercial real estate markets have
also improved. Total lending at a sample of small and midsized
District banks increased from mid-March to mid-June.”  MINNEAPOLIS: “The Ninth District economy showed signs of
moderate growth. Increased activity was noted in  consumer
spending , professional services, manufacturing and energy.
Tourism-related activities slowed in May and June in some areas,
but tourism businesses were optimistic for the summer season.
Commercial construction and real estate grew moderately fast,
while residential construction and real estate grew at a robust
pace. The mining sector was sluggish, and agriculture decreased.
Labor markets continued to tighten slightly, and wage increases
were moderate. Price increases were subdued since the last
report.”  KANSAS CITY: “The Tenth District economy grew modestly in
June, and expectations for future activity improved slightly.
Tourism and restaurant sales edged up, while retail and
automobile sales were steady since the last survey. District
manufacturers reported slowdowns in production and shipments,
principally due to regional storms over the survey period.
Residential real estate activity continued to be strong, while
commercial real estate activity marginally increased.
Agricultural growing conditions improved somewhat with recent
rains, which led to a drop in expected harvest prices for corn
and soybeans. District drilling and mining activity was flat,
though energy contacts expected stronger oil and natural gas
drilling in coming months. Labor shortages ticked up, but wage
pressures remained modest.”  DALLAS: “The Eleventh District economy generally expanded
at a slightly stronger pace over the past six weeks than during
the previous reporting period. Manufacturing activity increased
somewhat overall, with stronger reports from metals and
petrochemical producers. However, retail sales were flat after
rising in the previous six weeks, and auto sales softened
slightly. Nonfinancial services firms noted a continued rise in
activity, and demand for accounting services grew at a stronger
pace. The housing sector continued to improve, with a rise in
new construction. Office and industrial leasing activity
remained strong. Financial institutions noted growth in loan
demand was stronger than six weeks ago, and energy activity
remained at high levels. Drought continued to dampen the
agricultural sector. Prices held steady at most Eleventh
District reporting firms, and employment levels were flat
overall with scattered reports of hiring.”  SAN FRANCISCO: “Economic activity in the Twelfth District
expanded at a modest pace during the reporting period of late
May through early July. Price inflation was minimal for most
final goods and services, and upward wage pressures were mostly
muted. Retail sales of goods grew modestly overall, although
demand for business and consumer services was mixed. District
manufacturing activity improved. Production and sales of
agricultural items expanded. Demand for housing strengthened,
and commercial real estate activity trended up further. Contacts
from financial institutions reported increased overall loan
demand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vince Golle in Washington at 
 vgolle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  