-- Swaps Phase-Out Delay, Gilt Moves, MF Rogue: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-07-17T04:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/swaps-phase-out-delay-gilt-moves-mf-rogue-compliance.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DB) , the European
continent’s biggest bank, is among lenders given an extra two
years by the  Federal Reserve  to separate derivatives trading
from U.S. units that get government backing.  The Fed, in letters posted to its website this week, said
Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank,  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) ,  Societe
Generale SA (GLE) , Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce,  Bank of
Montreal ,  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ,  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ,  Natixis SA (KN) 
and  Bank of Nova Scotia  must determine whether to halt swaps
activity or move it to properly capitalized affiliates. Under
the Dodd-Frank Act swaps push-out rule, interest-rate and some
credit swaps can still be traded inside the banks.  “The potential impact of granting a 24-month transition
period is less adverse than the potential impact of denying the
transition period,” Robert Frierson, secretary of the Fed board
of governors, wrote in the letters, delaying a deadline that
otherwise required the push-out from yesterday. Forcing the
banks to cut off trades sooner could risk “operational problems
and market disruption,” he wrote.  Dodd-Frank, enacted in 2010, expanded swaps oversight as
U.S. lawmakers sought to make markets less vulnerable after the
2008 credit crisis. The push-out rule, included in the law by
former Senator  Blanche Lincoln , requires that equity, some
commodity and non-cleared credit derivatives be walled off from
bank units with access to deposit insurance and the Fed’s
discount window.  The Fed’s letters are almost identical to those the central
bank sent to U.S. companies such as  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
 Bank of New York Mellon Corp.   The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency granted the
two-year phase-out period last month to national banks it
oversees, including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America Corp. ,
 Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Morgan Stanley. (MS)   Compliance Action  U.K. Regulator Studying Gilt Moves During QE Buying, Fisher Says  Britain’s  Financial Conduct Authority  is studying price
moves in the gilts market as the central bank carried out
purchases under its quantitative-easing program,  Bank of England 
Markets Director  Paul Fisher  said.  The Bank of England passed information to the U.K.
financial regulator, Fisher told lawmakers on the Treasury
Committee in London yesterday. It related to central bank bond
buying being carried out in a reverse auction on Oct. 10, 2011.  The Bank of England has bought 375 billion pounds ($567
billion) of gilts under its  quantitative-easing plan  designed to
spur growth by capping bond yields. The FCA is already
investigating manipulation of benchmarks for  interest rates  and
foreign-exchange rates.  “We can’t comment on specific or potential
investigations,” the FCA said in a statement. “We are aware of
the comments that’ve been made.”  The Bank of England rejected all bids on Oct. 10, 2011, for
notes due August 2017, citing “significant changes in its
yields in the run up to the auction.”  Singapore’s MAS Says Local Banks Not at Risk Amid Moody’s Cut  The  Monetary Authority of Singapore  said in an e-mailed
statement that banks have conducted stress tests on their own
and had tests coordinated by the central bank, and have
“adequate buffers” to cope with higher interest rates.  The MAS has been monitoring risks, including those for the
property market, it said in the statement. The authority has
been concerned about over-borrowing, it said.  The MAS has taken steps on property risks, including stamp
duties and loan ratios, according to the statement.  Moody’s downgraded its outlook for  Singapore ’s banking
system to negative from stable yesterday.  Courts  Morgan Stanley Deserves Repayment From Skowron, Court Rules  Morgan Stanley is entitled to $10.2 million in restitution
from Joseph “Chip” Skowron, a former hedge fund manager
serving a five-year prison term for insider trading, a U.S.
appeals court ruled.  Skowron, 44, asked the U.S. Court of Appeals in Manhattan
to overturn a restitution order imposed by a judge after he
pleaded guilty to conspiring to commit securities fraud and
obstruct justice. U.S. District Judge Denise Cote said Skowron
owed the New York-based bank 20 percent of his salary from 2007
to 2010, or $6.4 million, and $3.8 million in legal fees.  The appellate court yesterday upheld Cote’s ruling that the
compensation is bank property because Skowron “manifestly
failed to provide the honest services for which Morgan Stanley
compensated him.” Skowron was a manager at Morgan Stanley’s
FrontPoint Partners LLC until he was charged in April 2011 with
using inside information to avoid $30 million in losses.  The bank also deserves payment of its legal fees stemming
from a Securities and Exchange Commission investigation,
according to the panel.  Skowron in August 2011 admitted helping FrontPoint avoid
more than $30 million in trading losses on Human Genome Sciences
Inc., a pharmaceutical firm acquired by  GlaxoSmithKline Plc. (GSK)   Skowron’s attorney Joshua H. Epstein didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment on the ruling.  “We are very, very pleased with the outcome,” Morgan
Stanley’s attorney  Kevin Marino  said in a phone interview.  The district court case is U.S. v. Skowron, 11-cr-00699,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).
The appeal is U.S. v. Skowron, 12-1284, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Second Circuit (Manhattan). Morgan Stanley’s suit is
Morgan Stanley v. Skowron, 12-cv-8016, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  AIG Can Probe Rogue Trader’s Employment Status at MF Global  An  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  unit and other
insurers can probe whether a “rogue trader” was an employee of
MF Global Holdings Inc. as part of a lawsuit over liabilities
for losses tied to the company’s collapse, a New York appeals
court ruled.  A five-judge appellate panel in Manhattan yesterday ruled
that while MF Global suffered a “direct financial loss” as a
result of the trader’s actions, it wasn’t clear that he was an
employee as he was paid by commission. The judges modified a
lower-court ruling to allow AIG to seek evidence on his status.  The trader, Evan Brent Dooley, was sentenced to five years
in prison in April for making unlawful unauthorized trades that
caused the now-defunct futures firm to lose more than $141
million in 2008.  MF Global submitted a claim for the loss to insurers
including New York-based AIG’s New Hampshire Insurance unit,
which denied coverage based on the fact that MF Global didn’t
suffer a “direct financial loss” and that Dooley wasn’t an
employee, according to court filings. The insurer, together with
others, sued MF Global to obtain a declaration that they were
not responsible for the loss.  An MF Global spokeswoman, Beth Sussman, didn’t comment
immediately on the decision. Jon Diat, a spokesman for AIG,
didn’t immediately respond to a message seeking comment.  The case is New Hampshire Insurance Co. v. MF Global Inc.,
601621/2009, New York State Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  Ex-Commerzbank Official Gets Probation in IRS Conflict Case  A former U.S. Internal Revenue Service employee was
sentenced to three years’ probation for passing information
about a tax-fraud audit to Commerzbank AG while he was working
to get a job with the Frankfurt-based bank.  Dennis Lerner, 60, pleaded guilty in March to a count of
criminal conflict of interest and illegally disclosing federal
income-tax information. Prosecutors said that while he was
managing an IRS audit of Commerzbank and involved in negotiating
a $210 million settlement of tax-fraud charges, he sought a job
with the company.  Prosecutors said that the U.S. was investigating
Commerzbank in connection with about $1 billion in allegedly
unreported income and that shortly after an accord was reached,
Lerner left his position and “immediately after resigning”
began working at Commerzbank as its tax director.  In court yesterday in Manhattan, Lerner apologized to his
family as well as the government, saying he used “very poor
judgment.”  Assistant U.S. Attorney Randall Jackson said that prison
was warranted and that U.S. sentencing guidelines recommend a
term of four to 10 months in prison. U.S. District Judge John
Keenan took Lerner’s poor health, including a heart condition,
into account in fashioning the sentence.  Margarita Thiel, a Commerzbank spokeswoman, declined to
comment on Lerner’s sentencing.  The case is U.S. v. Lerner, 12-cr-00952, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Interviews  Levitt Discusses Dodd-Frank Act, Wall Street Corruption  Arthur Levitt , former chairman of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, discussed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform
and Consumer Protection Act, and its effectiveness in reducing
corruption on Wall Street. Levitt talked with Bloomberg’s  Tom
Keene  and Sara Eisen on Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg
Surveillance.”  For the audio, click here.  Comings and Goings  SEC Enforcement Unit’s Lench Is Leaving Agency After 23 Years  Kenneth R. Lench, chief of the Securities and Exchange
Commission Enforcement Division’s Structured and New Products
Unit, is leaving the agency for private industry after more than
23 years of service.  Lench will leave the SEC at the end of this month, the
agency said in an e-mailed statement.  FDIC Director of Office of Minority, Women Inclusion to Retire  D.  Michael Collins , director of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp.’s Office of Minority and Women Inclusion since
1999, will retire effective Aug. 3, according to a statement
issued by the office.  Melodee Brooks, currently senior deputy director, was named
acting director.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey
at   cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 