-- U.K. Jobless Claims Fall Most in 3 Years as Economy Recovers
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-07-17T08:55:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/u-k-jobless-claims-fall-most-in-3-years-as-economy-recovers-2-.html
U.K. unemployment claims  fell at
their fastest pace in three years in June, adding to evidence
the economic recovery is gaining momentum.  Jobless claims fell 21,200 from May to 1.48 million, the
biggest drop since June 2010, the  Office for National Statistics 
in London said today. Economists forecast a decline of 8,000
based on the median of 23 estimates in a  Bloomberg survey .
Unemployment as measured by International Labour Organisation
standards fell 57,000 to 2.51 million in the three months
through May. The rate was unchanged at 7.8 percent.  The figures provide a further boost toPrime Minister  David Cameron , whose Conservative Party has gained in opinion polls as
the economy improves. With a general election less than two
years away, the government is counting on growth accelerating as
inflation continues to erode household incomes and hundreds of
thousands more public-sector jobs are axed to help narrow the
 budget deficit .  “We’ve had a very decent confluence of events,” said
 Philip Shaw , an economist at Investec Securities in London.
“The labor market numbers are positive and reflect the
favorable part of the economy in the first half. With pay growth
running so far below inflation there’s still a question mark
over the recovery.”  ‘Mixed Strategy’  Presiding over his first policy-setting meeting,  Bank of
England  Governor  Mark Carney  united officials as  Paul Fisher  and
 David Miles  dropped their call for more stimulus in favor of a
“mixed strategy” involving guidance on the path of  interest
rates , minutes of their July 3-4 discussions published today
show.  The Monetary Policy Committee voted 9-0 to keep the target
of its bond-purchase program at 375 billion pounds ($566
billion). All nine also voted to keep the key interest rate at a
record-low 0.5 percent.  The pound strengthened against the dollar and was trading
at $1.5189 at 9:53 a.m. London time, up 0.2 percent on the day.
The benchmark 10-year gilt yield was 6 basis points higher at
2.32 percent.  Britain’s economic growth probably quickened in the second
quarter to 0.6 percent, the fastest pace in almost a year, the
National Institute of Economic and Social Research said last
week. Recent surveys of services, manufacturing and construction
all strengthened in June.  Rising Confidence  Government measures to help support home buyers are also
having an effect, spurring  house prices  and boosting confidence.  Still, today’s report underlined the pressure on
households, with average earning growing just 1.7 percent in the
three months through May at a time when  inflation is running at
2.9 percent . Excluding bonuses payment, annual pay growth was 1
percent.  The economy’s 0.3 percent growth in the first quarter was
partly due to consumers savings less of their income,
underscored by a drop in the savings ratio to 4.2 percent, the
lowest in four years.  Jobless claims have fallen for eight straight months,
taking the jobless rate to 4.4 percent, the lowest since
December 2010, the ONS said. In May, claims fell 16,200 instead
of the 8,600 drop previously reported. ILO unemployment posted
its biggest quarterly fall since October last year. The number
of people in work rose 16,000 to 29.7 million.  While youth unemployment fell by 20,000 in the latest
quarter, the number of people looking for work for longer than a
year rose to its highest since 1996, the statistics office said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Svenja O’Donnell} in  London  at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  