-- U.K. Towns Near EDF Nuclear Plant Offered $195 Million
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-07-17T10:43:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/u-k-to-offer-incentives-to-communities-hosting-nuclear-plants.html
U.K. communities near  Electricite de
France SA (EDF) ’s planned new nuclear power station in southwest
England will get as much as 128 million pounds ($195 million)
for hosting the project under government plans announced today.  Residents near eight planned projects in England and  Wales 
will get benefits worth as much as 1,000 pounds per megawatt of
capacity per year for four decades, the Department of Energy and
Climate Change said today in an e-mailed statement. EDF’s plan
to build two  Areva SA (AREVA)  reactors totaling 3,260 megawatts at
Hinkley Point in Somerset is the most advanced of the projects.  “It is absolutely essential that we recognize the
contributions of those communities that host major new energy
projects,” Energy Minister  Michael Fallon  said in the
statement. “This package is in the interests of local people.”  The plan is at least the third set of incentives announced
this year by the U.K. to persuade communities to host energy
projects, from shale gas rigs to wind farms. The government is
trying to spur the 110 billion pounds of investment it says is
needed in new power plants and grid upgrades in order to keep
the lights on and meet carbon emissions targets.  Communities near each exploratory shale gas well will get
payments of 100,000 pounds as well as 1 percent of revenues from
production sites, the government  said  in June. The U.K. also
that month increased fivefold the benefits for hosting onshore
wind farms to 5,000 pounds a megawatt per year, as well as
giving locals greater say over siting onshore wind farms.  Under today’s plans, local authorities will be allowed to
keep an increased share of business taxes collected from nuclear
power plant operators for 10 years. Local communities around the
plants will then receive funding from the central government for
a further 30 years, the energy department said.  EDF,  Hitachi Ltd. (6501) ,  Iberdrola SA (IBE)  and  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA plan a
combined 16 gigawatts of new nuclear power stations in the U.K.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  