-- U.K. Jobless Claims Fall Most in Three Years as Economy Recovers
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-07-17T08:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/u-k-jobless-claims-fall-most-in-three-years-as-economy-recovers.html
U.K. unemployment claims fell at
their fastest pace in three years in June, adding to evidence
the economic recovery is gaining momentum.  Jobless claims fell 21,200 from May to 1.48 million, the
biggest drop since June 2010, the  Office for National Statistics 
in London said today. Economists forecast a decline of 8,000
based on the median of 23 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.
Unemployment as measured by International Labour Organisation
standards fell 57,000 to 2.51 million in the three months
through May. The rate was unchanged at 7.8 percent.  The figures will provide a further boost to Prime Minister
 David Cameron , whose  Conservative party  has gained in opinion
polls as the economy shows signs of returning to growth. With a
general election less than two years away, the government is
counting on private companies to keep hiring as hundreds of
thousands more public-sector jobs are axed to help narrow the
 budget deficit .  “The prospects for the labor market are looking more
favorable,” said  Howard Archer , an economist at HIS Global
Insight in London. “We anticipate that employment in the
private sector will gradually pick up, but this is likely to be
countered in the near term at least by an expanding labor force
and by further job losses in the public sector.”  Britain’s economic growth probably quickened in the second
quarter to 0.6 percent, the fastest pace in almost a year, the
National Institute of Economic and Social Research said last
week. Recent surveys of services, manufacturing and construction
all strengthened in June.  Rising Confidence  Government measures to help support home buyers are also
having an effect, spurring  house prices  and boosting confidence.  Still, today’s report underlined the pressure on
households, with average earning growing just 1.7 percent in the
three months through May at a time when inflation is running at
2.9 percent. Excluding bonuses payment, annual pay growth was 1
percent.  The economy’s 0.3 percent growth in the first quarter was
partly due to consumers savings less of their income,
underscored by a drop in the savings ratio to 4.2 percent, the
lowest in four years.  Jobless claims have fallen for eight straight months,
taking the jobless rate to 4.4 percent, the lowest since
December 2010. In May, claims fell 16,200 instead of the 8,600
previously reported. ILO unemployment posted its biggest fall
since October last year.  While youth unemployment fell by 20,000 in the latest
quarter, the number of people looking for work for longer than a
year rose to its highest since 1996, the statistics office said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Svenja O’Donnell} in  London  at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  