-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Richmond District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2013-07-17T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-richmond-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Fifth District-- Richmond.  FIFTH DISTRICT-RICHMOND  Overview. District economic activity strengthened moderately in
recent weeks. Manufacturing shipments and new orders increased.
Consumer spending firmed somewhat and auto sales remained solid.
Services providers also reported steady to stronger demand.
Additionally, tourist bookings were up year over year. In
banking, demand rose for new residential mortgage lending.
Commercial and industrial lending was flat to slightly higher.
Residential real estate sales and construction increased, with
speculative building returning to some areas. Commercial
construction was little changed and leasing was steady overall,
with occasional reports of rising rental rates. The effect of
continued heavy rainfall on agriculture was mixed, slowing
planting or damaging some crops while bolstering others. Natural
gas production increased since our last report, particularly
shale gas, and coal production was steady but well below year-ago levels. In labor markets, temp hiring picked up, although
many firms were reluctant to hire permanent workers. Average
wage growth was flat to faster, and price changes were mixed.  Manufacturing. Manufacturers expressed cautious optimism in the
weeks since our last report, as activity in that sector
strengthened modestly. Shipments and new orders rose, and the
average workweek increased. Despite the improved conditions,
producers preferred to use cash to update technology and
existing infrastructure, rather than undertake expansion. A
plastics manufacturer commented that his company was purchasing
new machinery in response to increased work levels, and he saw
industrial confidence as being up, but still cautious. A lumber
company executive said he will not hire new full-time employees
until next year, but that, so far, this has been his best year
since 2007. Moreover, according to a representative of several
manufacturers, some firms have gone to two shifts and further
growth is expected for the second half of this year as backlogs
build. Even so, he described confidence as “fragile, and nobody
takes it for granted.” Federal spending reductions, tax changes,
and slower overseas demand affected some manufacturers. A
manufacturer of packaging materials commented, “There is a light
at the end of the tunnel, but it only flickers at times.” Price
growth increased for raw materials and finished goods, according
to our latest survey of manufacturers.  Ports. Port volumes were little changed overall in recent weeks.
Lumber imports picked up, while imports of auto parts and auto
assembly inputs softened slightly from very high volumes.
Imports and exports of autos remained strong. Exports of
containerized agricultural products rose, particularly logs and
animal feed inputs, while exports of wheat sprouts declined.
Energy-related exports and agricultural equipment were solid,
with agricultural equipment peaking in late spring as usual,
albeit somewhat below year-ago record levels. Overall, coal
exports were unchanged. Port administrators expected seasonal
increases in the weeks ahead for back-to-school and holiday
imports.  Retail. Retail sales strengthened slightly in recent weeks,
helped by big-ticket sales. A wholesaler of heavy construction
equipment commented that his firm had seen significant
improvement. Additionally, a contact at a large auto and light
truck dealership remarked that sales volume was strong and the
market was extremely competitive. He noted that new vehicle
sales were being driven by full-size pickups that are typically
purchased by homebuilders and construction-related services
businesses. Used car sales were exceptionally strong and some
dealers had shortages of used vehicles. A report from a large
department store chain said that cold and damp weather, along
with the payroll tax change, had constrained sales. Retail price
growth slowed since our last report.  Services. Non-retail services firms reported steady to stronger
activity. Telecommunications firms, accountants, and a firm
specializing in software design for clinical use reported rising
revenues. Hospital consolidation remained “intense,” according
to a contact in North Carolina. Non-retail prices rose more
slowly in this reporting period.  Tourism picked up. Bookings rose in the Tidewater,  Virginia 
region. Additionally, a hotel manager in western North Carolina
noted that his bookings have risen compared to a year ago and
that expectations were for continued year-over-year growth for
the remainder of this year. A contact on the outer banks of
North Carolina reported general optimism and added that cutbacks
in government funding for tourist sites have led to increased
fund-raising events, such as concerts. Rates were little
changed.  Finance. Banking activity increased slightly since our last
assessment. Demand for residential mortgages was up in most
markets and bankers across the Fifth District commented that
there had been a noticeable shift toward new purchases and away
from refinancing. A Virginia banker proclaimed that “refinancing
had died,” although a lender in South Carolina said that
refinancing still made up the majority of his residential
mortgage business. However, some customers no longer qualified
for loan refinancing due to higher rates. Similarly, “the phone
rang more often” for a Virginia banker while a lender in
 Maryland  reported that people were waiting to see what rates
would do. Demand for residential construction loans rose in
South Carolina. Commercial and industrial loan demand was flat
to slightly higher. There were several loans in the pipeline at
a West Virginia bank, most of which were for new structures
(i.e., office buildings, car showrooms, and a retirement
community). However, higher interest rates caused some deals to
be reevaluated and put on hold or pulled. Contacts also stated
that clients were surprised at the higher rates and that
businesses were trying to figure out how best to budget for
them.  Real Estate. Residential real estate sales expanded. Two
Washington, D.C. area agents reported that it was now routine to
see multiple offers for a home, as well as escalator clauses in
those contracts. Another contact in the region said that home
repair and specialized construction were benefitting from
strength in the housing market. Due in part to its proximity to
D.C. and Baltimore, home sales in the eastern panhandle of West
Virginia finally saw some improvement. In addition, home sales
in western North Carolina were up, causing inventories to erode
and speculative building to resume. Inventories were also low in
the Charlotte region where home sales and prices had both
increased. Lastly, a source on the eastern shore of Maryland
stated that appraisals were below the sales price of homes in
some areas.  Commercial real estate and construction markets were little
changed overall in recent weeks. Demand for commercial real
estate in  Washington . D.C. continued to be scarce as people were
“waiting on the sidelines” to see what would happen with the
economy and government spending. In addition, one large business
in the D.C. area sold its buildings and turned to renting space
while another shifted out of large leased spaces and
consolidated into buildings owned by the firm. There were
conflicting reports from our North Carolina contacts about
multi-family housing: one reported there was now some
overbuilding while another said there was still a lot of
strength in this type of housing. This latter sentiment was
echoed by a report from the Tidewater area of Virginia
indicating that multi-family was doing well and stalled projects
were coming back on line. Contacts in other parts of the state
reported that lot inventory was low or “almost nil.” Retail,
office, and industrial leasing activity was steady in Virginia
and West Virginia while rental rates edged up in  Charlotte  and
Richmond.  Agriculture and Natural Resources. Recent reports on
agricultural conditions were mixed. While a South Carolina farm
loan banker reported that the wet weather earlier in the year
“started the crop season off in a positive light,” other reports
from South Carolina and Virginia indicated that the rains
delayed planting and even resulted in one farmer planting
soybeans and cotton instead of corn. In addition, a South
Carolina contact noted that heavy rains had damaged the regional
wheat crop to the extent that sprouts were unacceptable for
export. A North Carolina source also noted a recent shift to
cotton over corn, due to declining corn prices. Nevertheless,
another source remarked that agricultural lending was “booming”
and demand for wood products continued to rise.  Natural gas production--particularly shale gas--continued to
increase in West Virginia. Moreover, one shale plant was less
than fully staffed because of a worker shortage. Although rig
counts were down nationwide, West Virginia was one of five
states that recently saw an increase in rig counts. Coal
production remained steady in recent weeks though well below a
year ago. Coal lay-offs in southern West Virginia were expected
to come later this year.  Labor Markets. Conditions in the District labor market were
somewhat better since our last report. Employment rose in
several industries, including home repair and construction,
hotels, and medical software. In addition, a contact from a temp
agency in North Carolina reported there was high demand for
technology professionals, particularly for healthcare-related
IT, as well as accounting, finance, and real estate. He added
that contingent labor was in much greater demand than full-time
employees due to uncertainty about the economy; another source
said that small businesses were going out of their way to avoid
the long-term commitment of permanent hiring. In contrast, a web
consulting firm in Virginia and a social assistance organization
in North Carolina planned to add employees. Also, a staffing
agency in South Carolina reported weak demand for labor, and two
electrical equipment manufacturers laid off employees. According
to our latest surveys, wage growth picked up in the
manufacturing sector, remained robust at non-retail
establishments, and flattened at retail businesses.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 