-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Philadelphia District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2013-07-17T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-philadelphia-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Third District-- Philadelphia.  THIRD DISTRICT - PHILADELPHIA  Aggregate business activity in the Third District maintained an
overall moderate pace of growth during this current  Beige Book 
period. In particular, auto sales accelerated to a strong rate
of growth, lending firmed up to a modest rate of growth, and
manufacturing activity appears to have grown slightly after
declining slightly last period. The growth rate of residential
construction, existing home sales, and general services
continued at a moderate pace. Commercial real estate leasing
continued to expand at modest rates, while commercial real
estate construction continued to expand only slightly. General
retail sales, staffing services, and tourism appear to have
resumed a modest rate of growth this period after a small surge
last period. Manufacturing has resumed at a slight rate of
growth after declining slightly last period. Loan volumes at
Third District banks grew at a modest pace across most
categories, a little faster than last period. Credit quality
continued to improve. Little change was reported for general
 price levels  as well as for wages and home prices. Contacts
reported slight increases overall - similar to the last Beige
Book period.  An overall outlook for moderate growth has continued since the
last Beige Book. Contacts expressed greater confidence in the
consumer and in the sustainability of current trends. Firms
remain cautious about hiring and about carrying out their long-term capital expenditure plans. However, firms are more
comfortable investing when necessary to replace or upgrade aging
equipment and to meet growing demand.  Manufacturing. Since the last Beige Book, Third District
manufacturers have reported that orders and shipments are rising
again. The makers of paper products, rubber products, fabricated
metals, industrial machinery, and instruments have reported
gains since the last Beige Book. Firms supplying the home-building sector continued to report strong orders and ongoing
hiring to keep pace. The makers of food products and electronic
equipment reported lower activity (some was seasonal). Reports
were mixed for makers of primary metals. Other contacts
attributed growing demand to auto-related business and foreign
demand. A negative impact from sequestration was cited by some
firms, while others said they avoided the worst effects. Firms
continued to report restraint in current hiring but a desire to
hire more workers in the near future.  Across nearly all sectors, Third District manufacturers remained
optimistic that business conditions will improve over the next
six months. Business plans for the remainder of the year have
been lowered slightly for some firms. However, firms appear more
confident of ongoing, steady growth and more willing to invest
in capacity and hire new workers as needed to keep pace with
demand. Overall, firms have significantly increased their
expectations of future hiring and their plans for  capital
spending  since the last Beige Book.  Retail. Third District retailers have reported modest growth -
dampened by rainy weather - since the last Beige Book. Contacts
described June and July as seasonally slower months, as local
residents head off for summer vacations. However, excessive rain
in June kept still more people away from stores, while some
showed up just to “hang out” at the mall. Mall operators
reported that the general retail climate has improved, citing
stronger demand for retail space and rising occupancy rates.  Auto dealers reported that June sales accelerated to a strong
rate of growth. Sales, described as “on fire” for the first
couple of weeks of June, may have produced “the best [June
sales] in six years.” Dealers attributed a better sales climate,
in part, to no supply problems, no credit problems, and falling
unemployment rates. Dealers are bullish for the next couple of
years but continue to hire cautiously.  Finance. Overall, Third District financial firms reported modest
increases in total loan volume - a slight improvement since the
previous Beige Book. Banking contacts cited stronger demand for
all major loan categories, including C&I loans, real estate
loans, and consumer loans, including credit cards. Consumer
lending and home equity loans remained slow, as refinancings
remained a preferred option for homeowners. However, contacts
reported a decline in refinance applications in the pipeline
after rates rose. Meanwhile, increasing sales of new and
existing homes are raising demand for home mortgages. Banking
contacts continued to report strong competition for loans and
concerns about competitors lowering their lending standards.
However, most banks reported “improvement in all aspects of
business,” including “more upgrades of credits” within their own
portfolios. Contacts expressed continued optimism for future
growth and sensed greater customer confidence.  Real Estate and Construction. Homebuilders throughout most of
the Third District continued to report moderate growth. Though
traffic and sales were soft in a few markets, most builders are
meeting their plan for the year with increases as high as 40
percent. Builders reported no systemic impediments to sales,
such as credit availability and mortgage issues. Some builders
still face labor shortages for carpentry and framing work, and
several contacts have reported a shortage of finished land.
Moderate growth of existing home sales continued through June,
according to residential brokers. Sales closed and sales pending
grew by double digits (year over year) in several larger
metropolitan areas in the Third District. The estimated months’
supply of the existing inventory of homes has fallen to near six
months in many areas. Brokers say the anticipated shadow
inventory of homes has not yet emerged.  Nonresidential real estate contacts continued to report little
change in the modest pace of overall leasing activity and slight
growth of construction. Although the overall climate for new
construction “is getting incrementally better,” contacts
reported a renewed strong push for industrial structures along
the I-81 and I-76 corridors throughout eastern  Pennsylvania  and
into central  New Jersey . Construction activity also remains
greater for multifamily residential units, higher education
facilities, and public utility infrastructure. Contacts
continued to report heavy competition and thin margins on
projects. Overall, contacts remained optimistic for a
continuation of slow, steady growth.  Services. Third District service-sector firms continued to
report a moderate pace of growth overall. Despite earlier strong
bookings, shore destinations in  Delaware  and New Jersey reported
somewhat lower activity (traffic counts, bookings, and boardwalk
sales) and cited rainy weather through much of June as one
source of the problem. A multimillion dollar advertising
campaign has helped boost Jersey Shore activity, but tourism in
the areas hardest hit by  Hurricane Sandy  is still down somewhat
more than is necessitated by the actual damage. Casino revenues
from  Atlantic City  and the state of Delaware remain on a
downward trend, and reports from Pennsylvania casinos indicate
that revenue from  slot machines  appears to be turning in the
same direction.  In other sectors, firms cite steady progress - rising  consumer
confidence , limited cost pressures, and growing sales. A
staffing firm reported a slight sag in billable hours for June
following strong growth through May year to date. Other service-sector firms reported “incrementally better” growth, tight
margins, and cautious hiring. Contacts offer mixed reports on
their ability to attract qualified workers while generally
citing no wage pressures. Overall, service-sector firms remain
optimistic about future growth.  Prices and Wages. Overall, price levels continued to increase
slightly, similar to the previous Beige Book. Manufacturing
firms reported modest increases for prices paid and prices
received. Auto dealers reported no changes in pricing.
Homebuilders continued to face tight margins and higher prices
for some skilled labor. Most real estate contacts reported
stable, if not rising, prices for lower priced homes, and
contacts in some markets noted stable prices for higher-priced
homes. Contacts from retail, restaurants, and some services
indicated that commodity prices have not been a big issue this
year as in the recent past. Wage pressures remain constrained,
according to most contacts other than homebuilders.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 