-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Boston District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2013-07-17T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-boston-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s First District--  Boston .  FIRST DISTRICT - BOSTON  Economic activity in the First District continues to expand at a
moderate pace, according to business contacts. Retailers,
tourism contacts, manufacturers and consulting and advertising
contacts all report modest increases in sales. Commercial real
estate conditions are improving or holding steady, depending on
location. Residential real estate contacts report increases in
both house prices and sales. Overall prices are rising at a
modest pace, generally in line with cost increases. Most
businesses are holding employment steady, with substantial
staffing changes only at firms experiencing significant
increases or decreases in sales. Contacts generally expect the
recent trend of moderate growth to continue.  Retail and Tourism  Retailers contacted for this round report year-over-year comp-store sales increases ranging between 1 percent and 5 percent.
One contact had a low single digit decrease, but notes that
sales trends have been improving. Demand is strong for all
apparel categories, furniture, sporting goods, and mobile
technology. Consumer sentiment continues to pick up, albeit very
slowly, and prices at the wholesale and retail levels remain
steady. All of the contacts expect continued slow-growth of the
 U.S. economy .  Through May, hotel revenues are up 1.5 percent year-over-year.
Restaurant revenues are up 2 percent, slightly better than
expected. Contacts attribute these increases to strong corporate
business travel and entertaining. There is some softness in
domestic leisure travel, as attendance at museums and other
attractions is below expectations. Some of this decrease might
be due to record-setting rainfall in  New England  during June.
Contacts expect that leisure travel will increase during the
summer travel season.  Manufacturing and Related Services  Most of the 13 manufacturers contacted in this round report
modest increases in sales. The one firm to report a significant
decline in sales, a manufacturer of electric motors and brakes,
could not pinpoint any specific reason for the weakness.  Europe 
remains a source of weakness and  China  continues to inject
volatility for manufacturing exports. One contact reports that
sales in China of its products going into new commercial
construction were up 46 percent in the second quarter. Only one
contact, a manufacturer of textile and printing equipment,
specifically mentions the evolving macroeconomic policy picture
as an issue, saying that everything depends on what happens to
 interest rates . All but one of our contacts say that their
outlook is for stable or higher sales going forward, but none
report having raised their forecasts in the recent months.  Only one of our contacts cites significant staff reductions, the
same firm that notes declining sales. That said, the only firms
hiring in any significant way are rapidly growing companies in
the technology and life science areas. Most of our contacts, 8
of 13, report no change in employment.  All of our contacts, including the one with declining sales, say
that their investment plans have not changed and most report the
same or higher levels of investment for 2013 as for 2012. Our
contact at the firm with declining sales says that they try not
to let the business cycle affect investment decisions as, “A
good investment is a good investment.”  As far as pricing is concerned, no one reports anything out of
the ordinary. Firms that need to raise prices, typically, appear
to be able to do so; some raw materials prices, like copper, are
less of an issue than they were a year ago.  Selected Business Services  Consulting and advertising contacts in the First District report
a generally positive, but not exuberant, second quarter.
Economic consulting has experienced very strong demand due to
growth of high-stakes litigation. Healthcare and pharmaceuticals
consulting contacts gave mixed reports, with several contacts
reporting robust demand for services related to process
efficiency, effectiveness analytics and marketing support, while
another reports a slowdown in IT adoption. Strategy consultants
had mixed results, with large firms faring better than smaller
firms, largely due to greater exposure to the recently booming
private equity industry. Marketing and advertising contacts
report a slight uptick in growth from an already strong first
quarter. Finally, a government contractor reports flat revenue.  Contacts report either no cost growth or costs rising roughly in
line with 2 percent inflation, with the exception of one firm
whose health and business insurance premiums rose 8 percent to
10 percent on an annual basis. Firms were roughly split between
those facing pressure to keep rates flat and those with robust
enough demand to institute rate hikes of 3 percent to 5 percent
on an annual basis. About half of contacts report no net hiring,
with the others increasing their workforces by 3 percent to 5
percent, mostly through larger incoming classes of entry-level
workers beginning this summer. Firms reporting no net hiring
were split between those who are waiting for stronger demand to
justify hiring and those who hired rapidly in the recent past
and are trying to adjust to their new size.  Aside from a government contractor who is too uncertain about
the future of fiscal policy to offer any clear forecast,
contacts expect growth to either pick up or remain strong for
the rest of the year. Aside from the government contractor,
contacts were minimally concerned about fiscal issues, the
 European debt crisis , and the state of the macro economy.  Commercial Real Estate  Commercial real estate markets in the First District are, for
the most part, maintaining a solid footing. In Boston, rents on
prime retail properties continue to climb and office rents are
described as steady or rising, depending on location. Office
leasing volume is holding steady in Hartford, although deals
consist largely of short-term lease extensions with no expansion
of space needs. Also in the Hartford area, investment sales
demand remains strong for multifamily structures, while well-leased office buildings garner growing investor interest. In
Providence, office leasing negotiations proceeded slowly as some
tenants pushed back against landlords’ rising rent demands, and
some office sales fell through or stalled in response to June’s
spike in long-term Treasury rates. Also in response to the
latter development, a regional banking contact reports that
borrowing rates were raised on some commercial mortgages under
negotiation and, moving forward, 10-year fixed-rate loans are
likely to become more scarce. However, a Boston contact reports
that borrowing rates and capitalization rates on commercial
properties held largely steady in recent weeks.  The outlook among First District contacts is for slow
improvement in fundamentals for the rest of 2013, but some
downside risks were noted. For example, a gun manufacturer in
 Connecticut  announced plans to relocate to  South Carolina  in
response to the state’s passage of stricter gun-control laws,
taking jobs out of the state and vacating a significant amount
of commercial space. Other gun manufacturers in the state are
reportedly likely to follow suit in the coming months. A
seasonal slowdown in leasing volume is expected in Providence
for the summer months, and a few contacts across the District
mention interest-rate movements as a considerable source of
uncertainty for investment sales moving forward.  Residential Real Estate  Single-family home and condominium sales rose throughout the
First District in May. Contacts in the region report strong
demand for housing, particularly in urban areas of New England.
According to contacts, slight increases in interest rates will
likely spur more buyer activity in the short term as households
try to lock in historically low interest rates. In
 Massachusetts , particularly in the Greater Boston area,
inventory levels remain low, placing upward pressure on prices.
Contacts in the Greater Boston area caution that inventory
remains the most significant constraint on sales growth. In
other parts of the First District, smaller cities report
depleting inventory levels in urban centers, though realtors in
these areas feel that a sufficient number of homes are available
to satisfy prospective buyers. In contrast to much of the
region,  Rhode Island  maintains a high level of inventory, but
that market appears to be recovering as sales activity and
prices continue to increase.  Contacts expect sales activity and the median sale price to
continue their upward trend. Inventory levels will likely remain
an issue in urban areas due to a lack of new construction there.
Contacts anticipate that homeowners may be more inclined to list
their home for sale as house values continue to appreciate.
Overall, contacts feel the market remains poised for healthy
growth in the coming months.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 