-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Chicago District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2013-07-17T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-chicago-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Seventh District--  Chicago .  Summary  Economic activity in the Seventh District expanded at a
moderate pace in June, and contacts remained cautiously
optimistic about growth prospects in the second half of the
year. Growth in consumer and business spending picked up.
Manufacturing production increased as did construction, led by
continued improvement in the residential sector. Credit
conditions tightened moderately. Cost pressures were again mild,
and wage pressures remained moderate. Crop conditions improved,
with the crop ending the period in better shape than a year ago.  Consumer spending  Growth in  consumer spending  increased in June. Contacts
attributed the pick-up in the pace of growth to recent gains in
 consumer confidence , an increase in auto dealer incentives and
other retail promotions, and the rebounding housing market. Auto
sales increased at a faster rate than non-auto retail sales.
Auto dealers reported strong sales of both pick-up trucks and
small passenger cars, as well as an increase in activity in the
leasing market. For non-auto retail sales, contacts noted that
high-end retailers and discount stores both continued to fare
better than middle market retailers.  Business spending  Growth in business spending also picked up in June.
Spending on equipment and software increased slightly, as did
spending on structures. A few contacts reported an increase in
merger and acquisitions activity, but noted that deals were
being delayed by uncertainty surrounding the economic outlook.
Inventory investment was also impacted by elevated uncertainty.
Retail contacts reported that inventories remained tight, as
many retailers were planning to wait until after the back-to-school season to re-assess the state of demand and before
placing the bulk of their holiday orders. Manufacturers were
also limiting inventory investment, with a contact noting that
steel service centers were liquidating inventories given weak
demand. Labor market conditions continued to improve slowly.
Demand for skilled workers remained relatively stronger,
particularly for healthcare,  information technology ,
engineering, and other technical occupations. Manufacturing
contacts, however, were generally more cautious in their hiring
plans, with some layoffs reported in industries where activity
has slowed considerably in recent months. In addition, several
retailers reported that the Affordable Care Act would lead to
more part-time and temporary versus full-time hiring.  Construction/real estate  Construction and real estate activity continued to increase
gradually in June. Demand for residential construction grew
steadily, as multifamily construction remained strong and
single-family construction continued to improve. A homebuilder
noted that while new single-family development remained limited,
improvement of vacant lots in existing developments was
increasing. Activity in the residential real estate market
continued to increase as well, with home sales, prices, and
rents rising. Nonresidential construction grew at a modest pace,
driven in large part by the ongoing expansion of the  auto
industry . However, a contact noted that planned upgrades to auto
supplier facilities were nearly complete; and that with auto
production getting back to pre-recession levels, any additional
capacity expansion was likely to be incremental. Commercial real
estate conditions continued to improve as rents rose slowly and
vacancies fell.  Manufacturing  Manufacturing production increased in June. The auto
industry continued to be a source of strength, with the
traditional summer shut-down period scaled back this year to
meet the increase in customer demand. Vehicle demand was strong
across all sectors, and auto industry contacts reported growing
confidence that activity will remain robust in the second half
of the year. Steel production again grew at a moderate pace, and
specialty metal manufacturers reported a modest improvement in
new orders and order backlogs. In contrast, demand for heavy
equipment remained soft, although contacts anticipated a slight
improvement in the remaining months of the year. Mining activity
continued to weaken, and contacts expressed concern over the
effect environmental regulations would have on the coal mining
industry moving forward. Demand for construction equipment
picked up some as the housing market continued to improve.  Banking/finance  Credit conditions tightened moderately over the reporting
period. Volatility increased across a number of asset classes
and corporate borrowing costs rose. Financial market
participants noted lower activity in fixed income markets,
particularly the high-yield corporate  debt market . Banking
contacts cited less demand among their larger clients for
leveraged financing, and continued uneven growth in the middle
market driven mostly by refinancing of existing debt. Credit
standards remained roughly unchanged, although contacts reported
additional downward pressure on pricing. In contrast, consumer
loan demand increased over the reporting period, particularly
for auto lending. With the recent increase in  mortgage rates ,
mortgage refinancing slowed, but contacts again noted an
increase in new mortgage originations.  Prices/costs  Cost pressures remained mild in June. Commodity prices
continued to trend lower, although some contacts noted increases
in the prices paid for concrete, drywall, metals such as steel
and copper, and energy goods and services. Retailers again
reported mostly modest increases in wholesale prices; and,
overall, pass-through to downstream prices was limited. Wage
pressures remained moderate, although many contacts again noted
rising healthcare and other benefit costs. Some of these higher
costs were being passed on to employees.  Agriculture  Crop conditions improved over the course of the reporting
period, with the crop ending the period in better shape than a
year ago. District farmers managed to get their crops in the
ground despite additional planting delays caused by the
unseasonably wet weather. Only a small percentage of acres will
not grow a crop, where water pooled in low-lying areas and
replanting was not possible. Fruit crops could produce record
yields this year, in sharp contrast with the large losses seen a
year ago. With stocks of corn and soybeans expected to remain at
very low levels until the fall harvest, corn and soybean prices
moved higher. The increase in feed costs negatively affected
livestock operations, and contacts noted that it would lead to
careful management of feed purchases until anticipated declines
in crop prices are likely to materialize following a potentially
record fall harvest. The first cutting of hay was mostly
complete and was much better than last year. Supported by
rejuvenated pastures, milk output also increased. Milk prices
were roughly unchanged during the reporting period, while hog
prices surged, and cattle prices were lower.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 