-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: St. Louis District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2013-07-17T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-st-louis-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Eight District--  St. Louis .  Summary  The economy of the Eighth District has expanded at a
moderate pace since our previous report. Recent reports of
planned activity in manufacturing and services have been
positive. Residential real estate market conditions have
continued to improve, and commercial real estate markets have
also improved. Total lending at a sample of small and midsized
District banks increased from mid-March to mid-June.  Manufacturing and Other Business Activity  Reports of manufacturing activity plans have been positive
since our previous report. Several manufacturing firms reported
significant plans to add workers, expand operations, or open new
facilities in the Eighth District, while a smaller number of
manufacturers reported plans to reduce their employee count.
Firms in automobile, automobile parts, lumber, bakery, petroleum
refining, and firearm manufacturing plan to hire new employees
and expand operations in the Eighth District. In contrast, firms
that manufacture boats, housewares, turbines, and medical
equipment reported plans to lay off workers in the District.  Reports of plans in the District’s service sector have also
been positive since the previous report. Firms in television,
prescription benefits management, electronics retail,
residential care, utility, consulting, and automobile sales
services reported new hiring and expansion plans in District
states. In contrast, firms in transportation, financial, food
wholesale, healthcare, and security services plan to lay-off
employees. Reports from retail contacts were generally positive.
There were more new retail store openings than store closings.
However, many retail contacts noted that year-to-date sales were
below expectations, and contacts were cautiously optimistic
about sales for the remainder of 2013. Finally, sales reports
from auto dealers were generally positive, citing increased
sales for new and used cars as well as plans to open new
dealership locations.  Real Estate and Construction  Home sales have continued to increase throughout most of
the Eighth District on a year-over-year basis. Compared with the
same period in 2012, May 2013 year-to-date home sales were up 17
percent in Louisville, 24 percent in  Little Rock , 8 percent in
 Memphis , and 14 percent in St. Louis. May 2013 year-to-date
single-family housing permits increased in the majority of the
District metro areas compared with the same period in 2012.
Permits increased 18 percent in Louisville, 23 percent in
Memphis, and 18 percent in St. Louis. Permits decreased 3
percent in Little Rock.  Commercial and industrial real estate market conditions
have continued to improve moderately throughout most of the
District. A contact in Memphis reported that commercial and
industrial real estate activity continued to strengthen. A
contact in Louisville noted a strong demand in industrial real
estate. Contacts in St. Louis reported that downtown office
leasing appeared to bottom out compared with last year. A
contact in northwest  Arkansas  also reported that commercial real
estate activity was moving in the right direction. Commercial
and industrial construction activity continued to improve
throughout most of the District. A contact in south central
 Kentucky  reported several commercial construction plans in
 Bowling Green , while a contact in central Arkansas noted a few
retail construction projects. In contrast, contacts in Memphis
and Louisville commented that industrial construction activity
was low.  Banking and Finance  Total loans outstanding at a sample of small and midsized
District banks increased 1.8 percent from mid-March to mid-June.
Real estate lending, which accounts for 73.4 percent of total
loans, increased 0.9 percent. Commercial and industrial loans,
accounting for 15.7 percent of total loans, increased 0.7
percent. Loans to individuals, accounting for 4.7 percent of
total loans, increased 1.9 percent. All other loans, accounting
for 6.2 percent of total loans, increased 15.3 percent. During
this period, total deposits at these banks decreased 0.8
percent.  Agriculture and Natural Resources  At the end of June, the condition of over 90 percent of the
cotton, corn, soybeans, sorghum, and rice crops was rated as
fair or better in all the District states. Furthermore, at least
70 percent of total pastureland across the District states was
rated in good or excellent condition. The winter wheat harvest
was behind its 5-year average and behind the progress made by
the same time last year. Year-to-date coal production for the
District states at the end of May was lower than the same period
last year because of lackluster production in  Illinois ,
 Missouri ,  Tennessee , and  Indiana . In contrast, year-to-date coal
production in Arkansas was 55 percent higher than the same
period last year.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 