-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Minneapolis District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2013-07-17T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-minneapolis-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Ninth District--  Minneapolis .  The Ninth District economy showed signs of moderate growth.
Increased activity was noted in consumer spending, professional
services, manufacturing and energy. Tourism-related activities
slowed in May and June in some areas, but tourism businesses
were optimistic for the summer season. Commercial construction
and real estate grew moderately fast, while residential
construction and real estate grew at a robust pace. The mining
sector was sluggish, and agriculture decreased. Labor markets
continued to tighten slightly, and wage increases were moderate.
Price increases were subdued since the last report.  Consumer Spending and Tourism  Consumer spending increased modestly. A Minnesota-based bar
and restaurant chain noted that sales were up moderately during
May and June compared with a year ago. A mall manager in North
Dakota reported that sales increased modestly while traffic
decreased slightly during late May and June; apparel sales were
particularly slow. Meanwhile, a Minnesota-based apparel retailer
recently reported strong gains in same-store sales.  Minnesota 
vehicle sales were up from a year ago during May and June with
truck sales particularly strong, according to a representative
of an auto dealers association.  While wet and cool weather slowed May and June tourism-related activities in some areas, tourism businesses were
optimistic for the summer season. New boat registrations in
Minnesota were down 17 percent in 2013 compared with the same
time period in 2012. Nevertheless, a Minnesota state tourism
office survey of lodging and camping businesses in the state
showed that 38 percent expect higher occupancy this summer with
46 percent expecting level occupancy. After a slow start to the
summer season, lodging reservations and traffic to tourism
destinations in the Upper Peninsula of  Michigan  have picked up.
In Montana, lodging and visits to attractions during the first
part of summer were up from last year.  Construction and Real Estate  Commercial construction activity continued to increase
since the last report. The value of June commercial permits in
Billings, Mont., increased significantly from last year, while
hotel building rose to $6 million in June compared with zero in
the first six months of 2012. A manager of an industrial real
estate company noted increased interest in building warehouses
on speculation because some purchase prices for existing
structures are higher than the cost of building new. Several
national retailers are opening new stores this year in the
Minneapolis-St. Paul area. However, in Sioux Falls, S.D., the
value of June permits was down from a year ago. Residential
construction increased at a fast pace over past year. The value
of June single-family residential building permits in Billings
was up 28 percent from last year; multifamily building also
increased significantly. The value of June residential permits
in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area was up by 19 percent from June
of 2012, while it fell in Sioux Falls.  Activity in commercial real estate markets increased since
the last report. The University of St. Thomas semiannual survey
(May) of 50 Minneapolis-St. Paul commercial real estate leaders
noted higher rents, occupancy, land prices and building material
costs. Minneapolis-St. Paul area second quarter vacancy rates
dropped from the first quarter for retail and industrial space,
according to a research firm. Residential real estate market
activity increased at a robust pace. May home sales were up 13
percent from the same period a year ago in the Minneapolis-St.
Paul area; the inventory of homes for sale was down 22 percent,
and median sale prices rose 15 percent. In the Sioux Falls area,
June home sales were up 16 percent, inventory was down 15
percent and the median sale price increased 5 percent relative
to a year earlier.  Services  Activity at professional business services firms increased
since the last report. In Minneapolis, a technology consulting
firm reported a recent expansion and an intellectual property
protection firm is expanding. A lawyer at a Minnesota-based firm
noted an uptick in corporate legal work.  Manufacturing  The District manufacturing sector continued to expand since
the last report. A June survey of purchasing managers by
Creighton University (Omaha, Neb.) found that more manufacturing
firms increased activity in Minnesota and the Dakotas than in
previous months. An electronic equipment producer is moving
forward on a plant in Minnesota. Another Minnesota firm that
makes cable for utilities and telecommunications companies
reported strong sales during the past few months. Several
contacts in the metal forming business reported that they were
having very strong years, with a few reporting their best year
ever. A firm that supplies capital equipment to that industry is
seeing strong demand; the auto sector was a particular source of
strength.  Energy and Mining  Activity in the energy sector increased moderately, while
mining activity was sluggish. Late-June oil and gas exploration
activity increased slightly in North Dakota from the last report
and was flat in  Montana . A Minnesota utility announced plans for
$1.8 billion in upgrades to existing nuclear power plants.
Recent output at District iron ore mines was below year-earlier
levels. However, development will resume on a stalled copper-nickel mine project in the Upper Peninsula after the mine was
sold to another company.  Agriculture  The agricultural sector weakened since the last report.
District farmers made progress after a late spring, but remain
behind the five-year average for corn and soybean plantings due
to recent heavy rains. In some areas, farmers are expected to
switch from corn to soybeans due to the weather. Prices
increased from a year earlier for wheat, corn, soybeans,
chickens, milk, hogs, cattle and eggs; prices fell for turkeys
and dry beans. The late plantings, along with concerns about
warmer and drier weather later this summer, caused the USDA to
increase its corn price forecast slightly, though prices are
still expected to decrease from current levels.  Employment, Wages and Prices  Labor markets continued to tighten slightly. In North
Dakota, a health care administrative services firm plans to hire
375 new employees by September. A wind tower manufacturer
recently announced plans to hire 250 workers in South Dakota
when site construction is completed next year. A pipeline
company plans to add 110 jobs in Minnesota. May Minnesota
unemployment insurance claims were down 2 percent from a year
earlier; data in recent months have averaged close to
prerecession levels. However, a cellular phone company recently
announced plans to lay off 50 employees at a plant in North
Dakota. A software distributor announced plans to move its
corporate headquarters out of Minnesota, eliminating 150 jobs in
the state. In May, federal government employment in Minnesota
was at its lowest level in more than 20 years, while state
government employment was at its lowest level since January
2008.  Wage increases were moderate. According to a recent St.
Cloud (Minn.) Area Quarterly Business Report, 52 percent of
respondents expect to increase compensation over the next six
months, while 45 percent expect no change. In last year’s
survey, 38 percent expected to increase compensation, while 58
percent expected no change.  Price increases were subdued since the last report. A
Minnesota-based food producer noted that it expects input cost
inflation of 3 percent this year. Metals prices decreased over
the past month. Minnesota gasoline prices decreased 90 cents per
gallon from a spike in prices at the end of May; recent prices
were about the same as a year ago.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 