-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Atlanta District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2013-07-17T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-atlanta-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Sixth District-- Atlanta.  SIXTH DISTRICT - ATLANTA  Summary. Reports from Sixth District business contacts indicated
that economic activity expanded at a modest pace in June and
early July. The outlook for the rest of the year remains
optimistic for most firms.  Retailers noted mixed sales results and vehicle sales grew at a
robust pace. The hospitality sector continued to experience
strong demand. Most brokers and homebuilders reported increases
in sales and prices, and declining home inventories. Commercial
contractors cited improvement in overall demand and a slight
increase in construction. Manufacturing firms indicated that
activity grew, albeit at a slower rate than in our previous
report. Loan demand remained stable for residential real estate,
while loans for autos outside of the dealership remained
constrained by competitive offers from auto manufacturers.
Employment growth for the District was modest. Firms remarked
that stable input prices have helped improve profit margins
slightly.  Consumer Spending  and Tourism. Reports from District retailers
were mixed. While most merchants experienced modest growth,
growth was lower than expected in some cases. Some attributed
lackluster sales to weather conditions. Auto dealers continued
to experience strong growth.  Travel and tourism activity continued to exceed expectations.
Contacts throughout the District reported that key indicators of
demand (visitation, hotel occupancy, average daily rate, and
revenue per available room) and profitability were positive and
steadily rising. In spite of increases in accommodation rates,
demand remained strong with advanced bookings for the next three
to six months increasing to levels above those from a year ago.
With strong convention and group meeting activity planned for
the remainder of 2013 and positive lead volume for 2014,
District hospitality contacts anticipate the positive momentum
of 2013 to continue in 2014.  Real Estate and Construction. District brokers continued to
report that existing home sales remained ahead of last year’s
level were mostly ahead of expectations. However, brokers still
report that inventories remain at low levels, and thereby
restraining sales. Shortages were also said to be putting upward
pressure on  home prices . Existing home prices continued to rise
on a year-over-year basis. The outlook for sales growth remained
positive, with the majority of brokers anticipating sales gains
over the next several months.  District homebuilders reported that new home sales and
construction were ahead of year earlier levels. Recent activity
was mostly in line with expectations and buyer traffic remained
strong. However, builders noted that access to financing and a
shortage of developed lots continued to constrain construction
activity. Most contacts reported that new home inventories were
below the year earlier level and prices rose modestly. The
outlook for construction and new home sales remained positive,
but the outlook for growth moderated somewhat compared with our
last report.  District commercial real estate contacts indicated that demand
continued to improve from earlier in the year. Construction
activity was described as flat to slightly up from earlier this
year and was dominated by build-to-suit projects and renovations
of existing space. While a wider variety of projects seems to be
in the works compared with a year ago, activity was still
concentrated in medical  office space , certain types of retail,
and apartments. Commercial brokers indicated that demand for
space improved at a modest pace. Brokers reported that most
markets still favored tenants; however, rate increases continued
to be noted in select submarkets. The outlook among District
commercial real estate contacts remained positive with further
improvements expected this year.  Manufacturing and Transportation. Regional manufacturers
reported expanding activity; however, the rate of growth slowed
as a result of a decrease in new orders, production, and
finished inventory. Contacts reported a slight decline in
commodities prices and some expressed that inventories may build
in some sectors as manufacturers take advantage of favorable
prices. Less than half of  purchasing managers  expect production
to be higher in the next three to six months, slightly lower
than our previous report.  District port contacts cited notable year-over-year growth in
container trade, autos and machinery, and bulk cargoes,
including a significant increase in the exporting of natural
gas. Trucking companies cited a rise in shipments of building
construction materials, as well as chemicals; however, capacity
remained constrained due to driver shortages. Total year-to-date
railroad volumes were reported to be flat through June, but
significant activity was noted for petroleum-related products
and other chemicals, forest, lumber and wood products, and
metallurgical coal.  Banking and Finance. Some institutions reported a pickup in
mortgage loan demand attributed to improved housing markets and
increasing interest rates. They also indicated that while
mortgage refinancing had slowed, new purchase loan demand had
increased. Demand for automobile loans declined as banks and
 credit unions  noted they could not compete with zero percent
deals from auto manufacturers.  Some bankers indicated vigorous competition for loans has led
them to change loan features, such as relaxing guarantee
requirements or covering a substantial chunk of closing costs.
Local community bank contacts had eased up on covenants and
guarantees and were willing to take more risks, particularly
when a loan fit a category in which they were interested. Some
businesses were courted with offers to refinance debt with eased
covenants and restrictions, while others indicated financing was
still a major impediment to new construction projects and
securing funding remained difficult.  Employment and Prices. Since the last report, District payrolls
grew at a modest pace.  Tennessee  experienced moderate payroll
gains in retail, trade and transportation, professional and
business services, and manufacturing.  Alabama  continued to see
hiring in hospitality services, most notably in accommodation
and food services. Louisiana added jobs in construction, and
education and healthcare. All District states saw payroll
contractions in their government sectors, with the exception of
 Mississippi , which showed a mild gain at the state government
level.  In general, most input costs remained relatively stable, helping
to support slightly stronger profit margins in the face of
improving, but still below pre-recession sales levels. Some
notable exceptions were costs related to construction materials
such as lumber, concrete, and drywall, which increased for a
number of contacts. The Atlanta Fed’s Business Inflation
Expectations survey showed year-ahead unit cost expectations
ticking down from 2 to 1.8 percent in June, marking the lowest
reading since January.  Natural Resources and Agriculture. Regional oil and gas activity
remained robust. Significant  capital investment  continued in
liquefied natural gas (LNG) facilities along the  Gulf Coast .
Expansion projects on existing refineries were noted as moving
along, marking the first time such investments have been made in
twenty years. There were some comments that high costs to
transport oil and gas by rail, barge, and truck were exerting
upward pressure on prices for refined products. Contacts also
indicated that capacity for oil and natural gas products
remained abundant and that domestic demand for energy products
was beginning to rise for the season.  Since our last report, soil throughout much of the District
improved to more favorable, drier conditions. Pasture conditions
improved as well. Monthly prices paid to farmers were up for
cotton, soybeans, corn for grain, rice, citrus, hogs, and
broilers. During this same period, beef prices were down
slightly, but still moderately higher than this time last year.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 