-- U.S. Federal Reserve July Beige Book Summary (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2013-07-17T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/u-s-federal-reserve-july-beige-book-summary-text-.html
The following is the summary text of
the Federal Reserve Board’s Summary of Commentary.  Summary*  Reports from the twelve Federal Reserve Districts indicate that
overall economic activity continued to increase at a modest to
moderate pace since the previous survey. Manufacturing expanded
in most Districts since the previous report, with many Districts
reporting increases in new orders, shipments, or production.
Most Districts noted that overall consumer spending and auto
sales increased during the reporting period. Activity in a wide
variety of nonfinancial services was stable or increased in most
reporting Districts. Transportation was stable or increased in
several Districts. Tourism remained strong in some reporting
Districts, although several Districts noted softness from bad
weather. Residential real estate and construction activity
increased at a moderate to strong pace in all reporting
Districts. Commercial real estate market conditions and
construction continued to improve across the Districts. Banking
conditions generally improved across the Districts.  Credit
quality  improved, while credit standards remained largely
unchanged. Agricultural conditions were mixed, as weather
patterns varied, while extraction was generally stable or
increased.  Hiring held steady or increased at a measured pace in most
Districts, with some contacts noting reluctance to hire
permanent or full-time workers. Wage pressures generally
remained contained, although some Districts reported modest or
moderate wage growth in some sectors. Price pressures for inputs
and final goods remained stable or modest.  Manufacturing and Other Business Activity  Manufacturing increased in most Districts since the previous
survey. The exception was Kansas City, which noted a slight
contraction, with storms retarding some activity. Most Districts
reported stable or increasing new orders, shipments, and
production. Reports from contacts in the  Cleveland ,  Chicago , and
 St. Louis  Districts indicated moderate growth in manufacturing.
The  Minneapolis  District further noted that more manufacturing
firms increased activity than in the previous report; the
 Boston ,  New York , Richmond, Atlanta, and  San Francisco  Districts
noted that the uptick was modest; and the Philadelphia and
 Dallas  Districts noted slight improvements. Firms in the Boston,
Philadelphia, and San Francisco Districts were broadly
optimistic about prospects for the second half of 2013, while
manufacturers in the Richmond District were cautiously
optimistic; contacts expressed mixed outlooks in the Dallas
District, and contacts in the Cleveland and Atlanta District do
not expect future production to be as high as previously
projected.  Strong demand in residential construction continued to stimulate
the manufacturing sector in several Districts. Home-building
suppliers in the Philadelphia and Cleveland Districts reported
strong activity. Wood product manufacturers expanded operations
and increased production in the St. Louis and San Francisco
Districts. A cement producer in the Dallas District saw a very
strong market. Demand for construction equipment picked up in
the Chicago District.  Automobile manufacturing remained a source of strength in the
Chicago, St. Louis and Minneapolis Districts. Steel and metal
production increased in several Districts, including
Philadelphia, Chicago, Minneapolis, Dallas, and San Francisco.
Fabricated metal manufacturers in the Philadelphia and Dallas
Districts reported gains. Primary metal production was steady at
strong levels in the Dallas District, while reports on primary
metal orders in the Philadelphia District were mixed. Specialty
metal manufacturers in Chicago saw modest improvement in demand.
The metal-forming business in Minneapolis is having a very
strong year. Gains were reported by petroleum refining
manufacturers in the St. Louis and Dallas Districts. Reports on
semiconductor orders in the Dallas District were mixed, and
semiconductor firms in the San Francisco District said sales
increased substantially. Electronic equipment firms in the
Philadelphia District reported lower activity. Food producers in
the Philadelphia and  Kansas City  Districts saw weaker activity,
while demand for heavy equipment in the Chicago District
remained soft.  Nonfinancial services activity was steady or increased in the
New York, Philadelphia, Richmond, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and
Dallas Districts. Transportation services were stable in the
Richmond and Kansas City Districts, increased in the Cleveland,
Atlanta, and Dallas Districts, and contracted in the St. Louis
District. Consulting service firms in the Boston, St. Louis, and
Minneapolis Districts have experienced increased demand and
expanded operations since the previous reporting period.
Accounting service contacts in the Richmond and Dallas Districts
saw strong demand, while telecommunication service providers in
the Richmond and St. Louis District reported increased activity.
High-tech service firms in the Kansas City District and a
software design firm in the Richmond District saw rising
revenues, and software developers were in high demand in the San
Francisco District.  Consumer Spending and Tourism  Most Districts noted that overall  consumer spending  increased
during the reporting period. Reports from the Boston, Chicago,
Philadelphia, Richmond, Atlanta, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and San
Francisco Districts indicated modest or moderate growth in
retail spending, while reports from the Cleveland, Kansas City,
and Dallas Districts indicated steady to slightly higher sales.
The New York District noted that retail sales in May and June
had softened. Retailers in the New York, Cleveland, Atlanta, and
St. Louis Districts reported that sales had not met
expectations. Contacts in the New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland,
Richmond, and Atlanta Districts also noted that weather
conditions constrained retail activity. Demand for tech products
was strong or increased in the Boston and San Francisco
Districts. The Kansas City District reported that appliance
purchases were slow, while the Richmond District reported that
big ticket item sales were high. Inventories were at desired
levels or slightly high in the New York and Cleveland Districts,
and remained tight in the Chicago District. The outlook among
retailers was positive in the Cleveland, Dallas, and San
Francisco Districts and cautiously optimistic in the St. Louis
District.  Most Districts that reported on automobile sales noted increased
sales during the reporting period. Strong sales were reported in
the Philadelphia, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, and San Francisco
Districts. Reports from the Cleveland, St. Louis, Minneapolis,
and Kansas City Districts indicated steady to moderate sales
growth, and contacts in the Dallas District reported that sales
were slightly softer than the previous reporting period,
although still strong. New car sales increased in the St. Louis
and San Francisco Districts, while they held steady at favorable
levels relative to the same period last year in the New York
District. Used car sales increased in the Cleveland, Richmond,
St. Louis, and San Francisco Districts. Auto dealers in the
Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, and Minneapolis Districts reported
strong sales for pick-up trucks. The Kansas City and Cleveland
Districts expressed an optimistic outlook for future sales.  Travel and tourism increased in the Boston, Philadelphia,
Richmond, Atlanta, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts. The New
York District noted that tourism had been mixed but fairly
robust since the previous report. San Francisco also reported
that travel and tourism was mixed across the District. Weather
conditions affected tourism in some areas of the Boston,
Philadelphia, and Minneapolis Districts.  Real Estate and Construction  Residential real estate activity increased at a moderate to
strong pace in most Districts. Most Districts reported increases
in home sales. Cleveland noted that June sales of single-family
homes were down compared with earlier in the spring but up from
last year. Boston, New York, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas,
and San Francisco noted strong residential real estate markets.
 Home prices  increased throughout the majority of the reporting
Districts. Boston, New York, Richmond, Atlanta, Minneapolis,
Kansas City, and Dallas noted low or declining home inventories
and upward pressures on home prices in some areas. Residential
construction activity also improved moderately across the
Districts, and contacts in New York, Philadelphia, Chicago,
Minneapolis, Dallas, and San Francisco reported faster growth in
multi-family construction, in particular.  Commercial real estate market conditions continued to improve
across most Districts. New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland,
Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and San Francisco
reported modest to moderate improvements in nonresidential real
estate activity. Dallas reported strong growth in leasing
activity for office and industrial space. Boston and Richmond
reported that commercial real estate conditions were holding
steady or improving, depending on location. Nonresidential
construction activity was stable or increased throughout the
nation. Philadelphia, Atlanta, and Richmond reported that
commercial construction was flat to slightly up, while
Cleveland, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and Dallas noted
improvements in commercial construction.  Banking and Finance  Reports on banking conditions were generally positive across the
Districts. Overall loan demand increased modestly across most
reporting Districts. New York District bankers reported mixed
but generally steady loan demand. Some bankers in the Cleveland,
Chicago, and Dallas Districts noted competitive pressures to
reduce loan pricing. Bankers in the Philadelphia, Richmond,
Cleveland, Atlanta, and Chicago Districts noted a shift toward
new home mortgages and away from refinancing (which was led, in
part, by increases in  interest rates ).  Reports on credit quality indicated slight to moderate
improvements across the reporting Districts. Improvements were
noted by the New York, Philadelphia, Kansas City, and Dallas
Districts. Credit standards remained largely unchanged, although
some bankers in the Atlanta and Philadelphia Districts noted
increased competition to ease credit standards.  Agriculture and Natural Resource Industries  Agricultural conditions varied across the Districts because of
differing weather conditions. Crop conditions improved in the
Chicago and St. Louis Districts, while agricultural production
increased in the San Francisco District and is expected to
improve in the Kansas City District. Extremely wet conditions
delayed planting and even resulted in some farmers in the
Richmond and Minneapolis Districts planting soybeans instead of
corn. Excessive rains in the Richmond District also damaged the
wheat crop in some areas. Contacts noted persistent drought
conditions in some areas of the Kansas City and San Francisco
Districts and in most of the Dallas District. Winter wheat
harvest output yields were highly variable because of crop
damage from freezing and drought in the Dallas and Kansas City
Districts. The condition of pastureland in the Atlanta and St.
Louis Districts improved since the previous report.  Coal production was lower compared with the same time last year
for the Cleveland, St. Louis, and Richmond Districts. Energy
activity remained robust or steady at high levels in the Atlanta
and Dallas District. Natural gas production was stable in the
Cleveland District and continued to increase in the Richmond
District. Drilling declined in the Cleveland District, was flat
in the Kansas City District, and increased in the Richmond
District. Oil and gas exploration was up slightly in the
Minneapolis District. Mining was flat in the Kansas City
District, weakened in the Chicago District, and was sluggish in
the Minneapolis District.  Employment, Wages, and Prices  Hiring held steady or increased at a measured pace in most
Districts. Contacts in the Philadelphia, Richmond, and Chicago
Districts were cautious or reluctant to hire permanent or full-time staff. The Richmond and Chicago Districts noted relatively
stronger demand for part-time workers. Transportation contacts
in the Cleveland, Atlanta, and Kansas City Districts noted some
difficulty finding qualified drivers. Contacts in the New York,
Richmond, and San Francisco Districts reported high demand for
technology workers.  Most Districts reported that wage pressures remained limited or
contained. The Chicago and Minneapolis Districts reported
moderate wage pressures. The Chicago District noted that rising
healthcare and other benefit costs were being passed onto
employees. Contacts in the New York and San Francisco Districts
noted that competition for technology workers had an effect on
salaries. The Richmond District noted that wage growth picked up
in the manufacturing sector, remained robust at non-retail
establishments, and flattened at retail businesses.  Overall consumer and input price pressures remained stable or
modest in most reporting Districts, although some Districts
noted price increases. Most notably, the Cleveland, Atlanta,
Chicago, Minneapolis, and San Francisco Districts noted upward
pressures on the prices of construction materials. The
Philadelphia and Richmond Districts reported price increases for
raw materials and finished goods among manufacturers. The New
York District reported that input price pressures have abated
further in manufacturing but remained widespread in services.
Retail prices remained steady in the Boston, New York,
Cleveland, Kansas City, and Dallas District, while retail price
growth slowed in the Richmond District and wholesale retail
prices increased in the Chicago District.  * Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis and based on
information collected on or before July 8, 2013. This document
summarizes comments received from business and other contacts
outside the  Federal Reserve System  and is not a commentary on
the views of Federal Reserve officials.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 