-- U.S. Bancorp Declines on Mortgage Forecast: Minneapolis Mover
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k   a n d   E r i k a   W a d d e l l
-- 2013-07-17T14:21:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/u-s-bancorp-declines-on-mortgage-forecast-minneapolis-mover.html
U.S. Bancorp (USB) , the nation’s largest
regional lender, fell the most since April after the firm said
it expects mortgage revenue to continue to decline this year.  U.S. Bancorp slid 2.5 percent to $36.36 at 10:01 a.m. in
 New York . The Minneapolis-based lender was the second-worst
performer today in the 24-company KBW Bank Index, which rose 0.5
percent.  Second-quarter net income climbed 4.9 percent to $1.48
billion, or 76 cents per share, the bank said in a statement
today, matching the average estimate of 34 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. U.S. Bancorp executives said mortgage revenue will
probably decline in the second half, and that the lender’s net
interest margin, or the difference between what it pays for
deposits and charges for loans, will be stable in the third
quarter.  “In June we expected mortgage banking revenue to be higher
in the second quarter than the first quarter,” Chief Financial
Officer Andrew Cecere said on a conference call following the
results. “However, since the time we made that statement to the
end of the quarter, rates moved up by about 60 basis points and
refinance activity slowed significantly.”  Second-quarter revenue fell 2.4 percent to $4.95 billion
from a year earlier, led by a decline in mortgage income, which
slid 19 percent to $396 million, according to the statement. Net
interest margin shrank by 5 basis points from the first quarter
to 3.43 percent.  U.S. Bancorp is “kind of a victim of being one of the best
banks out there, and so at this point there’s not a lot of
recovery left for them to really participate in,”  Marty Mosby ,
an analyst for Guggenheim Securities LLC, said in a phone
interview before results were released.  Chief Executive Officer  Richard Davis , 55, said in May that
the “intangible lack of overall confidence” in the  U.S.
economy  has led to tepid loan growth in the banking industry.
U.S. Bancorp cut expenses by 1.7 percent in the second quarter
to $2.56 billion from a year earlier and reduced the amount set
aside for soured loans by 23 percent to $362 million, according
to today’s statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net ;
Erika Waddell in New York at 
 ewaddell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  