-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Kansas City District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2013-07-17T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-kansas-city-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Tenth District--  Kansas  City.  The Tenth District economy grew modestly in June, and
expectations for future activity improved slightly. Tourism and
restaurant sales edged up, while retail and automobile sales
were steady since the last survey. District manufacturers
reported slowdowns in production and shipments, principally due
to regional storms over the survey period. Residential real
estate activity continued to be strong, while commercial real
estate activity marginally increased. Overall banking conditions
improved slightly, with marginally higher loan demand and
generally better loan quality. Agricultural growing conditions
improved somewhat with recent rains, which led to a drop in
expected harvest prices for corn and soybeans. District drilling
and mining activity was flat, though energy contacts expected
stronger oil and natural gas drilling in coming months. District
contacts from most sectors reported little change in prices for
food, building supplies and raw materials. Labor shortages
ticked up, but wage pressures remained modest.  Consumer Spending  Consumer spending edged up in June, with increased tourism
and restaurant spending, but little change in automobile and
retail sales. Contacts in most sectors expected consumer
spending to improve over the next three months. District retail
sales were flat over the survey period. Purchases of large
ticket items, such as appliances, slowed relative to lower-priced goods. Tourism activity and hotel occupancy rates both
rose relative to the last survey period, but were similar to
levels a year ago. Average daily room rates were unchanged and
were expected to remain the same in the coming months.
Restaurant sales ticked up since the last survey, and
respondents expected similar levels of activity over the next
few months. Automobile dealers reported sales were steady and
above year-ago levels, but inventories continued to increase.
The majority of dealers still expected faster sales growth in
the coming months.  Manufacturing and Other Business Activity  Manufacturing activity contracted slightly in June, while
high-tech activity rose and transportation was flat. A number of
factories reported production delays and shipment interruptions
due to recent regional storms and flooding. Activity was
especially weak among producers of food and machinery. However,
expectations for future factory activity continued to increase.
High-tech service firms reported that sales improved during the
survey period, but activity was expected to be flat over the
next three months. Transportation activity and capital
expenditures were unchanged in June compared to the previous
survey period. Transportation firms reported difficulty finding
qualified drivers, and some anticipated increased costs due to
compliance with the Affordable Care Act.  Real Estate and Construction  Residential real estate activity remained robust, while
commercial real estate activity ticked up in June. Residential
real estate sales continued to rise. Prices continued on an
upward trend while inventories were somewhat lower compared to
the prior survey period. Contacts in some District markets
reported that low inventories slowed sales and put upward
pressure on prices. Views on the likely impact of rising
interest rates were mixed. Some contacts expected that recent
increases in mortgage rates would encourage more people to buy
before rates increased further, while others anticipated a
reduction in activity. Recent storm damage to homes in some
parts of the District was also expected to add to the demand for
housing in those areas. Residential builders reported solid
construction activity, with expectations for further modest
growth. Commercial real estate activity ticked up during the
past month, as construction activity continued to strengthen.
Sales prices held steady, and vacancy rates fell further in some
areas. Contacts expected stronger activity in coming months, but
several noted uncertainty around rising interest rates.  Banking  Bankers reported slightly stronger overall loan demand,
moderately improved loan quality, and slightly lower deposit
levels. Respondents reported stable demand for commercial real
estate and consumer installment loans. Demand for commercial and
industrial loans increased, while demand for residential real
estate loans declined. Nearly all bankers reported slight
improvements in loan quality compared to a year ago. They also
expected loan quality to marginally improve over the next six
months. Credit standards remained unchanged in all major loan
categories and respondents reported slightly lower deposits.  Agriculture  Agricultural production expectations improved somewhat with
recent rains, but varied regionally. Summer storms eased dry
conditions in eastern parts of the District, though drought
persisted in western regions. The winter wheat harvest was
underway or complete in Oklahoma and Kansas with highly variable
yields depending on the extent of drought and freeze damage.
Despite expectations of a poor wheat harvest in some areas,
wheat prices fell since the last survey period. The corn and
soybean crops, however, were rated in mostly good or better
condition with the improved soil moisture. Although corn and
soybean prices remained historically high, improved growing
conditions led to a drop in expected harvest prices for both
crops. Feedlot operators struggled with high input costs and
falling cattle prices, but losses narrowed for hog producers
after a rebound in hog prices. Cropland values moved higher but
were expected to hold steady during the growing season.  Energy  District energy activity held steady over the survey
period. Overall, drilling activity remained stable for both oil
and natural gas in June. With oil prices elevated and natural
gas prices low, drilling activity was expected to continue to
shift away from natural gas to oil. However, energy contacts
expected oil and natural gas drilling to accelerate over the
next few months. Wyoming coal production was unchanged in June,
but demand has weakened over the past year. Ethanol production
continued to edge higher, and inventories trended down as
profitability in the sector improved modestly.  Wages and Prices  Wage pressures remained low during June, and prices were
generally unchanged during the survey period. The percentage of
firms reporting labor shortages increased slightly, but recent
wage increases remained modest. Firms reported strong demand for
long haul drivers, delivery drivers, skilled auto technicians
and hotel housekeeping staff. Retail prices were steady during
June, and retailers did not expect to raise prices over the next
three months. Menu prices and food costs were flat during the
survey period. Food costs were expected to rise over the next
three months, but most restaurants did not anticipate passing
the increases through to consumers. Raw material prices for
manufacturers were unchanged in June, but expectations did move
up moderately. Finished goods prices increased slightly, but
manufacturers projected future finished goods prices would be
lower. Construction supply firms and builders reported that
prices for construction materials were unchanged and neither
expected prices to rise over the next three months. Similarly,
transportation firms responded that input prices were flat.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 