-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Cleveland District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2013-07-17T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-cleveland-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Fourth District--  Cleveland .  FOURTH DISTRICT - CLEVELAND  The economy in the Fourth District expanded at a moderate pace
during the past six weeks. Manufacturing orders and production
were steady or higher. The momentum seen in residential
construction since the beginning of the year has slowed, but
activity remains above year-ago levels. Nonresidential builders
experienced a rise in the number of inquiries and backlogs.
Retail sales were lackluster during May, while new motor vehicle
sales posted moderate gains on a year-over-year basis.
Conventional and unconventional natural gas and oil production
was stable, and drilling has declined since the start of the
year. Output at coal mines trended lower. Freight transport
volume exceeded projections. Demand for credit increased
slightly.  Hiring picked up in manufacturing and residential construction.
Staffing firm representatives reported that the number of  job
openings  and placements was fairly steady, with vacancies found
primarily in healthcare and manufacturing. Wage pressures remain
contained. Input and finished goods prices saw little change,
apart from increases in construction materials.  Manufacturing. Reports from District factories indicated that
new orders and production were largely stable or increased
during the past six weeks. Companies seeing the strongest
activity were suppliers to the residential construction and
transportation industries. Compared to a year ago, production
levels were mixed. Steel producers and service centers reported
that shipping volumes were little changed. Our contacts
expressed concern about downward pressure on domestic steel
prices, which they attributed to rising imports. Motor vehicle
production at District plants held steady during May on a month-over-month basis. Compared to a year ago, auto production rose
slightly. Many of our contacts believe that demand will soften
during the next couple of months, although part of the expected
decline was attributed to seasonal factors. In response, there
was some reduction in finished goods inventories.  Manufacturers commented that capacity utilization rates have
fallen slightly but remain within their normal ranges.  Capital
expenditures  are either on plan or slightly ahead for the fiscal
year. Several companies anticipate increasing capital budgets in
the upcoming fiscal year to better position themselves for
expected growth opportunities. Raw material and finished goods
prices were generally flat or trended lower. Steel producers who
attempted to raise their prices met with limited success.
Factories expanded payrolls at a modest pace, although finding
qualified production and salaried personnel was difficult. Wage
pressures are contained.  Real Estate. Sales of new single-family homes were down slightly
in June when compared to earlier in the spring, although they
remain above year-ago levels. Construction starts also fell
slightly. One contractor commented that the recent decline in
sales is not abnormal for this time of year. Traffic and
inquiries were described as much better relative to last year.
New home contracts were found mostly in the mid- to higher-price-point categories. Demand for multifamily housing was
strong. Builders were confident that the turnaround in the
housing market will persist in the upcoming months. Nonetheless,
they cited difficulty in obtaining financing and a lack of
buildable lots as barriers to more robust growth. List prices of
new homes increased by as much as 5 percent in certain markets
this year due primarily to rising costs for land, building
materials, and to a lesser extent, labor. Home builders have cut
back on discounting. Sale prices of existing single-family homes
continued to rise across the District on a year-over-year basis,
but the rate of increase is somewhat lower than the national
average.  Nonresidential builders have seen a small improvement in
business conditions since our last report. Inquiries have picked
up and backlogs are slowly rising. The strongest activity was on
the commercial side, especially in distribution and warehousing.
Bank financing is difficult to obtain, so many smaller projects
are being funded with cash. Our contacts are hopeful that the
improvement in business conditions they have recently
experienced will continue at the same pace or accelerate during
the remainder of this year.  We heard many comments about large price increases for building
materials, especially lumber, drywall, and concrete, though the
rate of increase has slowed during the past month. Home builders
reported moderate hiring, especially for office personnel, while
nonresidential builders limited their hiring to seasonal help.
Wage pressures are contained. General contractors are concerned
about the availability of qualified subcontractors if demand in
the construction sector begins growing at a robust pace.  Consumer Spending . Retailers described May sales as lackluster
and noted that they fell below plan. However, sales were fairly
even with the same month a year ago. Some of our contacts cited
poor weather conditions for holding down consumer spending.
Looking ahead, third-quarter sales are expected to be modestly
higher when compared to those in the second quarter. A few
contacts reported that their inventories were slightly higher
than desired. Vendor and shelf prices held steady. Capital
expenditures were on plan for the fiscal year. Monies are
allocated primarily for store improvements and expansions. No
hiring is anticipated, except for staffing new stores.  Year-to-date sales of new motor vehicles showed a moderate
increase during May compared to the same time period a year ago.
Buyers preferred smaller, fuel-efficient vehicles; however,
purchases of large  pickup trucks  trended higher, especially in
the eastern half of the District. New vehicle inventories are
rising, but a majority of dealers said that they are satisfied
with their inventory positions. Our contacts are fairly
optimistic about sales prospects for the remainder of the year.
Dealers pointed to pent-up consumer demand and the option to
lease vehicles as reasons for their optimism. Used-vehicle
purchases rose during the past six weeks. Inventory is building
as lease rollovers start to come in. Prices for quality used
cars remain high. Dealer investment in facility upgrades and
expansions has increased as they grow more confident about the
sustainability of higher sales volume. Dealers are looking to
hire a small number of personnel, though some have postponed
hiring decisions as they gauge the effectiveness of new
technology that is being integrated into their selling model.  Banking. Demand for commercial real estate and multi-family
construction loans has picked up since our last report, while
requests for other business loan categories were little changed.
Almost all bankers reported aggressive credit-pricing pressure.
Consumer credit demand rose slightly, especially for auto loans
and home equity products. Residential mortgage activity remains
relatively strong. Several bankers attributed a decline in
refinancing to a rise in  interest rates . New purchase mortgages
are trending higher. No changes were made to loan-application
standards. Aggregate core deposits grew at a steady pace, with a
movement from CDs to demand deposits still taking place. There
were a few reports about workforce reductions and shifting
personnel as a means of cutting costs.  Energy. District coal production remains below year-ago levels,
although the downward trend seen during the first five months of
2013 was showing signs of leveling off. Producers reported that
demand from domestic  utility companies  is up slightly, while
offshore demand is slowing ( Asia ) or stagnant ( Europe ). Spot
prices for steam-coal rose slightly, whereas metallurgical coal
prices were flat. The number of drilling rigs across the
District has fallen significantly since the beginning of the
year; however, the state of  Ohio  continued to issue shale gas
drilling permits at a robust pace. Output from conventional and
unconventional gas wells was stable during the past couple of
months, while oil production picked up slightly. Well-head
prices were little changed. Capital expenditures remain at
targeted levels. On balance, little change was seen in
production equipment and material prices. Energy payrolls and
labor costs were flat.  Freight Transportation. Our contacts reported that shipping
volume remains higher than expected, but the rate of growth has
slowed since our last report. Freight executives are positive,
but cautious about growth prospects for the near term. Of
particular concern is how the new hours of service regulations
(HOS) that went into effect on July 1 will play out. Our
contacts believe that the primary impact of HOS will be on the
availability of drivers and the ability of shipping companies to
effectively schedule those drivers. Potential reductions in
capacity will tend to drive up shipping costs. Prices for
equipment and maintenance items were stable.  Capital spending  is
on plan for the fiscal year. Monies are used mainly for
tractor/trailer replacement and capacity expansion. The industry
is still experiencing a shortage of drivers and skilled
mechanics. The former may worsen under the new HOS regulations.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 