-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Dallas District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2013-07-17T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-dallas-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s eleventh District-- Dallas .  The Eleventh District economy generally expanded at a
slightly stronger pace over the past six weeks than during the
previous reporting period. Manufacturing activity increased
somewhat overall, with stronger reports from metals and
petrochemical producers. However, retail sales were flat after
rising in the previous six weeks, and auto sales softened
slightly. Nonfinancial services firms noted a continued rise in
activity, and demand for accounting services grew at a stronger
pace. The housing sector continued to improve, with a rise in
new construction. Office and industrial leasing activity
remained strong. Financial institutions noted growth in loan
demand was stronger than six weeks ago, and energy activity
remained at high levels. Drought continued to dampen the
agricultural sector. Prices held steady at most Eleventh
District reporting firms, and employment levels were flat
overall with scattered reports of hiring.  Prices  Most responding firms said prices were stable, although
there were some reports of increases. Airline ticket prices rose
slightly because of summer demand, and transportation service
firms expect shipping rates to increase due to a recent upturn
in jet fuel prices.  Home prices  rose rapidly as demand continued
to outstrip supply. Financial institutions reported a notable
rise in mortgage rates. Accounting contacts said billing rates
stabilized after earlier increases were successfully
implemented. Retail prices were unchanged since the last report.  Oil prices  rose slightly over the reporting period. Natural
gas prices fell below $4 per mcf. Gasoline prices edged down and
diesel prices increased.  Labor Market  Employment held steady at most responding firms, although
there were more reports of hiring than at the time of the last
report. Nominal employment increases were reported by retailers,
and hiring was noted by some primary metals and cement
manufacturers. Accounting and legal firms continued to add
workers in selected business areas. A railroad contact reported
employment growth, but the hiring was concentrated outside the
Eleventh District. Difficulty finding qualified workers became
more widespread, with scattered reports among accounting,
finance, single-family construction, auto sales, and primary
metals manufacturing firms, as well as from retailers in the
Eagle Ford Shale area.  Wage pressures remained mostly subdued, although increased
compensation was reported in accounting and legal services.  Manufacturing  Manufacturing activity improved slightly over the reporting
period. Construction-related manufacturers said demand was flat
or up, and a cement producer noted very strong demand from
residential construction, allowing the company to choose which
projects to take on. Outlooks were more optimistic than in prior
periods. Primary metals manufacturers said demand held steady at
strong levels, although there wasn’t much enthusiasm regarding
the remainder of the year. An exception was commercial
construction-related demand, which is expected to pick up.
Fabricated metals firms noted improved demand and positive
outlooks.  High tech orders and production were flat to slightly up
since the last report. Semiconductor manufacturers reported some
improvement in demand for memory equipment but weakness for
logic devices. Demand is expected to be flat in the second half
of the year, although there was increased concern that orders
may weaken.  Paper manufacturers said demand was less volatile than
earlier in the year, and business is expected to stay roughly at
current levels in the near-term. Food producers said demand held
steady and outlooks remained positive.  Transportation manufacturing contacts reported steady or
slightly increased demand, with business generally improved from
a year ago. Most firms expect strong demand through year end.  Petrochemical producers noted some pickup in activity since
the last report, although most markets were stable. Contacts
remained positive in their domestic outlooks, but global
weakness was weighing on the overall picture. Refiners said
operating rates and margins were up over the reporting period.  Retail Sales  Retail sales volumes held steady over the reporting period
and were up from a year ago. Outlooks for the rest of the year
were positive, with growth expected to continue at about the
same pace as in the first half.  Automobile sales were slightly softer than six weeks ago
but remained strong. Demand was up year over year. Selling
prices held steady at very competitive levels over the reporting
period. Outlooks for the third quarter were optimistic, and
contacts expect the rest of 2013 to be strong. However, there
was continued concern about rising costs, particularly from the
Affordable Care Act.  Nonfinancial Services  Most nonfinancial services firms noted increased demand
since the last report, although staffing services contacts
offered mixed reports: high-level IT workers and engineering
project managers were in high demand, while demand weakened for
lower-skilled positions. One staffing services firm saw more
placements at the end of the quarter than usual. Accounting
firms reported a strong increase in demand since the last  Beige
Book , led by transactions work. There was a good backlog of
work, so contacts are expecting a strong third quarter. Legal
firms noted modest demand growth, but work was down year-over-year on a per-lawyer basis. Real estate work continued to rise,
although lawyers became somewhat concerned about interest rate
risk. Contacts noted a lack of litigation work, and demand for
energy work experienced a little softness although it remained
strong. Firms expect to see improvement on a year-over-year
basis in the fourth quarter.  Transportation service firms said cargo and container
volumes increased over the reporting period, except for air
cargo, which held steady. Railroad contacts reported a slight
increase in overall volumes, with notable increases in motor
vehicles and crushed stone. Container volumes were up strongly
in May, and retail trade continued to lead the growth in small
parcel shipments, which increased in May for the third
consecutive month. Outlooks were generally less positive than at
the time of the last report.  Airline contacts noted a seasonal increase in passenger
demand over the past six weeks, with demand roughly in line with
year-ago levels. Firms expect demand to slow as the leisure
travel period ends. One contact expects 2013 to be about the
same or slightly better than 2012, while another has an
uncertain outlook.  Construction and Real Estate  Activity in the housing sector continued to grow at a
strong pace over the reporting period. Single-family home sales
continued to outpace supply, leading to very low inventories and
rapid price increases. Building activity picked up but was not
yet able to meet demand in the major metro areas. Slightly
higher  mortgage rates  are not expected to derail demand,
according to most contacts. Apartment demand remained at high
levels. Apartment construction rose in the major metros, where
occupancies were above 90 percent.  Leasing activity for office and industrial space was strong
over the past six weeks, particularly in Houston and Dallas.
Construction activity picked up in both Houston and Dallas, with
numerous office and industrial projects underway. Contacts noted
that the recent increase in  interest rates  has caused concern in
the commercial investment markets, although the impact has been
minimal so far.  Financial Services  Financial institutions experienced moderate growth in loan
demand. Commercial real estate and transactions lending
increased solidly, especially in oil and gas areas around the
Eagle Ford Shale and West Texas. Demand for auto loans grew
strongly. Loan quality was good and continued to improve, and
borrowers were still paying down debt rapidly. Loan pricing
remained extremely competitive, and community banks were often
outbid by regional banks. Mortgage rates rose in June. Deposits
and deposit rates were flat to slightly down. The outlook for
loan demand is optimistic, with a robust pipeline for mortgages.  Energy  Energy activity was little changed at high levels. Global
demand held steady, although there was some weakness from Mexico
and  Canada . Respondents expect improvement in energy activity in
the second half of the year, due in part to anticipated
increases in rig activity and production from the  Gulf of
Mexico .  Agriculture  Much of the Eleventh District remained in severe drought,
with conditions little changed from the last reporting period.
Row crop farmers completed planting, and crop conditions were
mostly fair to good, according to respondents. The wheat harvest
continued, but production was sharply reduced as a very large
share of the acres planted was abandoned because of drought and
freeze damage. Livestock feedlots and meat processors continued
to suffer greatly from high feed costs and a shrinking cattle
herd.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 