-- U.S. Bancorp Quarterly Profit Rises 4.9% as Lender Cuts Expenses
-- B y   E r i k a   W a d d e l l
-- 2013-07-17T11:10:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/u-s-bancorp-quarterly-profit-rises-4-9-as-lender-cuts-expenses.html
U.S. Bancorp, the nation’s largest
regional lender, said second-quarter profit rose 4.9 percent as
the firm cut expenses and set aside less for soured loans.  Net income climbed to $1.48 billion, or 76 cents a share,
from $1.42 billion, or 71 cents, a year earlier, the
Minneapolis-based bank said today in a statement. Earnings
matched the 76-cents a share  average estimate  of 34 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Richard Davis , 55, has boosted
annual revenue every year since taking over in 2006. The bank
has been expanding in businesses including corporate-trust
services and hedge-fund asset administration as it seeks to
increase fee revenue amid weak loan growth and a slowdown in
mortgage refinancing.  “We achieved profitability metrics that remain among the
very best in our industry,” Davis said in the statement,
“particularly given the slow, albeit steady, growth we have
seen in the markets we serve.”  In March, the company agreed to buy Deutsche Bank AG’s
municipal bond trustee business in a transaction that will add
about $57 billion to the $3 trillion in assets under
administration by its corporate-trust unit. The transaction will
build on the bank’s trust business in  California , Mississippi,
New York, Tennessee and Texas, the firm said at the time.  U.S. Bancorp fell 0.6 percent to $37.27 yesterday in New
York. The shares have gained 17 percent this year, compared with
the 25 percent  advance  of the 24-company  KBW Bank Index. (BKX)   JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest U.S. bank, said last week
that second-quarter net income jumped 31 percent to $6.5 billion
as revenue from trading and investment banking outweighed a drop
in consumer and community banking. Profit at  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,
the largest U.S. home lender, rose 19 percent to $5.52 billion
as the San Francisco-based bank trimmed expenses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erika Waddell in New York  at 
 ewaddell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  