-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: New York District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2013-07-17T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-new-york-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Second District--  New York .  SECOND DISTRICT--NEW YORK  Economic activity in the Second District has continued to expand
moderately since the last report. Manufacturers indicate that
input price pressures have abated further, whereas service
sector contacts report that they remain fairly widespread;
prices of finished goods and services are stable to up slightly.
Labor market conditions continue to improve gradually, and
businesses have become more willing to negotiate on salary.
Retailers report that sales were on the soft side in May and
especially in June, whereas new automobile sales are reported to
be steady. Tourism activity remains steady at a strong level.
Commercial and residential real estate markets have continued to
firm throughout the region. Finally, bankers report mixed but
generally steady loan demand, no change in credit standards,
continued narrowing in loan spreads, and further declines in
delinquency rates across all loan categories.  Consumer Spending  Retailers report that sales softened in May and especially in
June. One major retail chain reports that same-store sales were
little changed from a year earlier, running modestly below plan
in May and noticeably below plan in June. Another chain
indicates that sales were down noticeably from 2012 levels in
both months. In general, New York City stores performed a bit
better than those elsewhere in the District--likely buoyed by
tourism. Major malls in upstate New York indicate that sales
were steady to lower than a year earlier. Most of the retail
contacts attribute at least part of the recent softness in sales
to unseasonably cold and wet weather. Inventories are generally
reported to be at desired levels or a little on the high side.
Prices are characterized as steady, and no unusual discounting
is reported.  Auto dealers in the Buffalo and Rochester areas report that new
vehicle sales were steady at favorable levels in May and June,
and continued to run moderately ahead of comparable 2012 levels.
Sales of used automobiles are characterized as soft--in large
part because of attractive deals on new autos. Wholesale and
retail credit conditions for auto purchases remain in good
shape.  Tourism activity has been mixed but generally fairly robust
since the last report. Manhattan hotels report continued strong
business, with total revenues up 7 percent from a year ago:
occupancy rates exceeded 90 percent and were roughly on par with
a year ago, room rates were up 3-4 percent, and there are about
3 percent more hotel rooms than a year ago. On the other hand,
attendance at Broadway theaters has continued to be weak,
reflecting considerably fewer shows running than in the spring
of 2012. Finally,  consumer confidence  in the region has improved
since the last report: The Conference Board’s June survey of
residents of the Middle Atlantic states (NY, NJ, Pa) shows
confidence rising for the third straight month, approaching its
five-year high set last October; Siena College’s survey of New
York State residents shows consumer sentiment rising to its
highest level this year in June, led by upstate New York.  Construction and Real Estate  Residential real estate markets in the District have
strengthened further since the last report. Sales prices for
Manhattan apartments (co-ops and condos) were up moderately from
a year earlier, while sales volume was up nearly 20 percent,
further sharply reducing the inventory of units on the market.
Rents on  Manhattan  apartments continue to rise and are running
roughly 5 percent ahead of comparable 2012 levels, however,
rents have slipped modestly in  Brooklyn .  New Jersey ’s housing
market has shown more modest signs of improvement: prices are
rising slowly, reportedly restrained by an ongoing backlog of
distressed properties on the market. However, new construction
activity-- particularly of rental apartment buildings--is
running substantially ahead of a year ago. Finally, housing
market conditions remain particularly strong in western New York
State: very tight inventory levels have pushed prices up, and
multiple offers and bidding wars have become commonplace,
despite continued tight lending standards.  Commercial real estate markets throughout the New York City
metropolitan region also showed further improvement in the
second quarter.  Long Island ’s office vacancy rate slipped below
8 percent for the first time in a number of years, while rates
in northern New Jersey, Westchester and Fairfield counties edged
down but remain on the high side. Office rents are little
changed from mid-2012 in these areas. Manhattan’s office vacancy
rate ticked up but remains low as of mid-year, while asking
rents are up roughly 5 percent over the past year. Industrial
markets have also tightened, particularly in Long Island, where
vacancy rates have declined steadily and asking rents are up
nearly 8 percent over the past year.  Other Business Activity  The labor market continues to improve at a gradual pace. Two
major employment agencies describe market fundamentals as
favorable but note that the market is difficult to gauge at this
typically slow time of year. One contact notes increasing
difficulty in finding candidates with specific skill sets--
especially for technology workers--and also finds companies
becoming less reluctant to negotiate on salaries. This is
described as the best year for college graduates since 2008.  More generally, manufacturing contacts report a modest increase
in staffing levels and some pickup in business activity since
the last report but do not expect to hire additional workers
through the second half of 2013. Contacts in other sectors also
report some pickup in both employment and business activity and
do plan to ramp up hiring, as well as  capital spending , in the
months ahead. Input price pressures have abated further in the
manufacturing sector but remain fairly widespread among service-sector businesses. Both manufacturers and service-sector
contacts report that selling prices are relatively stable.  Financial Developments  Bankers report increased demand for commercial mortgages but
decreased demand for residential mortgages. For other loan
categories, as well as for refinancing, contacts report no
change in demand. Respondents also note that credit standards
remain unchanged across all loan categories. Bankers indicate a
decrease in spreads of loan rates over costs of funds for all
loan categories-- particularly in commercial mortgages. Finally,
bankers report decreased delinquency rates for all loan
categories, but especially for commercial & industrial loans.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 