-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: San Francisco District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2013-07-17T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-san-francisco-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Twelfth District--  San Francisco   Summary  Economic activity in the Twelfth District expanded at a
modest pace during the reporting period of late May through
early July. Price inflation was minimal for most final goods and
services, and upward wage pressures were mostly muted. Retail
sales of goods grew modestly overall, although demand for
business and consumer services was mixed. District manufacturing
activity improved. Production and sales of agricultural items
expanded. Demand for housing strengthened, and commercial real
estate activity trended up further. Contacts from financial
institutions reported increased overall loan demand.  Prices and Wages  Price inflation was minimal for most final goods and
services. Food industry contacts noted price increases for some
protein items, including fish, poultry, and beef. Reports from
health-care organizations mentioned that the pace of increases
in insurance premiums has slowed. Competitive industry pressures
constrained fees for legal and accounting services. Driven by
demand, prices of some construction inputs, such as logs, edged
up further.  Contacts reported that upward wage pressures were muted
overall. Slack in the labor market held back wage gains in most
sectors, occupations, and regions. However, firms in various
industries continued to compete vigorously for a limited pool of
qualified workers to fill certain technical positions, spurring
significant wage growth for occupations such as software
developers.  Retail Trade and Services  Retail sales grew modestly. Grocery and apparel retailers
noted modest sales growth at retail store locations and
relatively strong sales growth online. The retail grocery
industry in particular appears to be shifting away from
traditional large stores and towards e-commerce. Most contacts’
outlook for  consumer spending  improved slightly since the prior
reporting period. Contacts noted that an increase in demand for
new devices has spurred some technology firms to expand their
medium-term hiring plans. Suppliers of food and beverage
products noted improved conditions, although sales of selected
discretionary items, such as pet supplies, were a bit soft. As
home purchases have increased, so has spending on housing-related products, such as furniture. New and used automobile
sales were robust, and some dealers expanded their inventories
in anticipation of a further pickup in summer sales.  Demand for business and consumer services remained mixed.
Robust activity in  Hawaii  supported the District’s travel and
tourism sector, although there is some concern that the flow of
international visitors could subside in coming months due to
weakness in the global economy. After slipping early in the
year, travel and tourist activity in  Southern California 
appeared to pick up somewhat toward the end of the second
quarter. However, tourist activity in  Las Vegas  remained soft
through the first half of 2013. Demand for elective health-care
services stayed relatively weak, while demand for other
discretionary services, such as restaurant dining, appeared to
strengthen.  Manufacturing  District manufacturing activity grew overall in the
reporting period of late May through early July. Although demand
was weak for some electronic components, contacts indicated
substantial increases in new orders for semiconductors. Led by
launches of innovative products, demand for pharmaceuticals
gained further. Wood product manufacturers appeared to ramp up
output to levels that exceeded demand in recent weeks. As such,
firms are expected to pare back production plans for the second
half of the year. Demand for steel products used primarily in
nonresidential construction continued to increase. Steel
producers reported that capacity utilization ticked up a bit
further, and reports of intensified energy usage across multiple
goods-producing sectors in the Pacific Northwest implied
improved capacity utilization in the region.  Agriculture and Resource-related Industries  Agricultural sales and production activity expanded. Demand
was strong for most crop and livestock products. However, some
contacts expressed concern about the lack of availability of
manual laborers. Insufficient water also was a concern in parts
of the District, with this year’s rain and snow pack levels
running well below seasonal norms. Contacts from the oil and gas
industry faced challenges finding qualified geologists,
geophysicists, and drillers to fill open positions. Inventories
of natural gas rose further, and demand for gasoline edged up.
Reports from the utilities industry indicated that business
demand for electricity from wood products and aerospace firms
has risen robustly, although overall demand growth was more
modest.  Real Estate and Construction  Demand for housing strengthened substantially, and
commercial real estate activity continued to trend up in most
areas. Both sales transactions and house prices climbed further
in many District cities. The pace of housing starts exceeded the
expectations of some contacts. In some areas, the supply of
homes for sale remained low, and some properties have received
multiple offers from prospective buyers. Construction of
multifamily residential projects increased on balance.
Commercial real estate activity expanded rapidly in some major
metropolitan areas, even though construction of publicly funded
commercial projects has slowed in some regions due to funding
constraints from state and local governments.  Financial Institutions  Reports from financial institutions indicated that loan
demand continued to increase. Contacts noted an uptick in
applicants seeking residential construction loans and commercial
office building mortgages. In line with reports of an improved
outlook for business investment, banking contacts indicated that
some firms have recently expanded their borrowing in order to
invest in long-deferred expansion and capital improvement plans.
Although banking contacts highlighted generally stiff
competition for well-qualified business borrowers, they also
noted more lending opportunities. However, hiring plans were
mixed, with some financial institutions expecting to expand
their payrolls significantly and others mentioning possible
layoffs. In the District’s Internet and digital media sectors,
mergers and acquisitions activity stepped up in recent months.
However, the pace of initial public offerings remained slow, and
both  venture capital  and private equity activity were relatively
weak.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 