-- Vedanta’s Zambian Unit Plans Coal Power Plant to Reduce Costs
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2013-07-17T11:23:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/vedanta-s-zambian-unit-plans-coal-power-plant-to-reduce-costs.html
Konkola Copper Mines Plc,  Vedanta
Resources Plc (VED) ’s Zambian unit, said it’s exploring for coal and
may build a power plant in  Africa ’s biggest copper producer to
reduce electricity costs.  KCM, which started exploration at the prospect in the
Sinazongwe district of Zambia’s Southern Province this year, may
build a power station to generate as much as 300 megawatts,
provided it finds enough coal with the necessary energy levels,
said Strategy and Business Development Director Brad Gnanasivam.  “It’s an option that we are trying to develop for
ourselves so that we’re not stranded,” he said in an interview
today in Lusaka, the capital. “If power rates continue going
where they are going, at some point it will become very
unsustainable, especially at the kind of power that we
consume.”  Konkola Copper Mines is the biggest power consumer in
Zambia, using as much as 250 megawatts, or about 13 percent of
the country’s total generation capacity. Zesco Ltd., Zambia’s
state-owned power producer, applied for a 26 percent average
price increase last year, and the regulator is yet to decide on
the request. KCM halted plans to fire 2,000 workers in June in
favor of reducing production costs. One megawatt is enough to
power about 500 to 1,000 U.S. homes.  KCM would want to have its own power station producing by
2020, when an electricity supply contract with Copperbelt Energy
Corp. expires, Gnanasivam said. Maamba Collieries, a unit of
Nava Bharat Singapore Pte Ltd., is building a 300-megawatt coal
power plant in Sinazongwe district, while EMCO Energy Zambia
plans to build a thermal power plant twice that size in the same
area.  Power prices in Zambia may need to double by 2015 to make
it viable to build new generation capacity and end a supply
shortage, CEC Energy said last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Hill in Lusaka at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  