-- Vietnam’s FPT to Appoint New CEO to Lead Global Expansion
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-18T06:48:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/vietnam-s-fpt-to-appoint-new-ceo-to-head-global-expansion.html
FPT Corp., Vietnam’s largest listed
telecommunications and technology company, is poised to hire a
new chief executive officer this quarter as it positions itself
to expand globally, Chairman Truong Gia Binh said.  Binh, who has been filling in as the CEO since Truong Dinh
Anh resigned the post last September over “differences” with
the board, said in an interview in Hanoi the company has
conducted a global search for a new leader.  FPT and other Vietnamese technology companies are vying to
compete with regional software developers such as  India ’s
 Infosys Ltd. (INFO)  and emerging Chinese companies, capitalizing on
Vietnam’s low labor costs and tech-savvy workforce. The new CEO
will be charged with helping FPT significantly expand its
outsourcing business in the U.S., Binh said yesterday.  “Adding a new CEO shows the company is confident and
moving forward,” Lam Nguyen, a Ho Chi Minh City-based analyst
at technology research firm International Data Corp., said in a
phone interview yesterday. “Fresh management, new ideas, new
personnel -- I think that’s a plus for FPT.”  Shares of Hanoi-based FPT fell 0.2 percent to 43,600 dong
as of 1:36 p.m. on the Ho Chi Minh City Stock Exchange after
rising as much as 0.7 percent.  Revenue Growth  FPT has rallied 24 percent this year, outpacing the 20
percent advance in the benchmark  VN Index. (VNINDEX)  Binh said he expects
the company will achieve a revenue target of $1.3 billion this
year, compared with $1.2 billion in 2012.  The leadership shift comes as FPT, one of  Vietnam ’s largest
private companies, moves to provide more cutting-edge services
in areas such as cloud computing, big data and mobile
technology. It operates offices in 11 countries.  A new CEO represents a generational change at FPT, said
Lam. Binh, who co-founded the company in 1988, said he will
remain chairman. He served as chief executive officer for 20
years before stepping down in 2009.  “I would like to transfer it to a second generation of
leadership at FPT,” said Binh, who is 57 years old.  The new CEO will share the company’s “vision” for further
global expansion and a strategy to develop higher-end technology
services, he said. Earlier this year, FPT opened a research and
development center in Silicon Valley. The company has
partnerships to globally deploy the technology of  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT)  and  SAP AG (SAP)  to clients and is looking to develop similar
relationships with other technology companies, Binh said. FPT is
also providing services to companies using Amazon.com Inc.’s
cloud technology.  ‘Very Challenging’  Gaining a bigger slice of the worldwide information
technology outsourcing market, which  Gartner Inc. (IT)  estimates will
be  $288 billion  this year, is “very challenging,” said Ankita Somani, an analyst at Angel Broking Ltd. in Mumbai. Indian
outsourcing companies enjoy repeat business from 90 percent of
their clients, she added.  “It will take time to get into the big league,” Somani
said in a phone interview today. “You can’t jump into large
projects. You have to start with smaller ones. That’s how you
scale up your capabilities.”  Binh’s presence at the company has been reassuring to
investors, Lam said.  “He spearheaded the company into what it is today,” Lam
said. “He’s kind of like the spirit of FPT.”  FPT’s eight subsidiaries employ about 16,000 people. The
company in March set a target for pretax profit to increase 10
percent to 2.65 trillion dong ($125 million) in 2013. The
company has exceeded its first-half goal, Binh said, without
giving specific numbers.  FPT is looking to expand its U.S. outsourcing revenue to a
total of $100 million by 2016 from $22 million, Binh said.  “We target very high growth there,” he said. “It’s a big
chance for FPT.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
John Boudreau in Hanoi at 
 jboudreau3@bloomberg.net ;
Nguyen Kieu Giang in Hanoi at 
 giang1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
K. Oanh Ha at 
 oha3@bloomberg.net  