-- Virgin Atlantic Pushes Back Airbus A380 as Plan Uncertain
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-07-18T10:58:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/virgin-atlantic-delays-buying-airbus-a380-monitors-boeing-787.html
Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd. has
delayed taking delivery of six A380 superjumbos ordered from
 Airbus SAS (EAD)  more than a decade ago as the U.K. carrier evaluates
whether it still requires the world’s largest jetliner.  Virgin Atlantic, which placed a contract for the double-deckers in 2000, has “deferred them yet again,” with the first
delivery now due in 2018 rather than 2017, Chief Executive
Officer Craig Kreeger said in  London .  One of the first carriers to order the A380, Crawley,
England-based Virgin was originally due to take the model in
2006. While delivery dates slipped after program delays at
Airbus, Virgin itself put back service entry as the global
economy slumped and the carrier mulled its own business model.  “It’s hard but not impossible to see a world where we want
to take the aircraft,” Kreeger said in response to questions at
the Royal Aeronautical Society. “It’s not a clear choice.”  While airlines are looking to new planes such as the A380
to reduce fuel consumption, the superjumbo may be better suited
to operators with extensive hub systems -- such as Dubai-based
Emirates, the biggest customer -- than carriers such as Virgin
which generally rely on passengers traveling point-to-point.  Kreeger, who took over as CEO on Feb. 1, said Virgin is
focused more on the introduction of  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s 787, with the
first of 16 Dreamliner aircraft due in September 2014.  Close Contact  The carrier is in close contact with the U.S. company over
operating problems with the model, which was grounded for three
months earlier this year following battery glitches and which is
currently undergoing investigation after a fire on an Ethiopian
Airways Enterprise jet at  London Heathrow  on July 12.  “We can’t ignore the technical issues Boeing has faced,”
Kreeger said, while adding that any remaining glitches will have
been ironed out by the time Virgin gets the plane. With the
carrier taking the larger 787-9, the problems with the baseline
787-8 have had no impact on the delivery schedule, he said.  Speaking after Heathrow made its case for enlargement in
the face of plans from Mayor  Boris Johnson  to demolish the hub
and construct a new one in a less built up area, Kreeger said
his preference would be for growth at the current location.  Should Heathrow be closed or not allowed to expand, growth
should still be focused on a single hub, and at “an existing
airport rather than building one from scratch,” he said.  The Virgin chief, who is pursuing a turnaround plan for the
unprofitable company aimed at reviving earnings by spring 2015,
said he has held discussions with  Howard Davies , who leads a
state-appointed commission on U.K. airport capacity.  Regulatory approval for an antitrust-immune joint venture
with  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , which holds a 49 percent stake in
Virgin, should be received before the year’s end, he reiterated.  Code-shares that began July 2 will boost the U.K. company’s
North American network and lift sales by tapping Delta ties to
travel agents and corporate booking organizations, Kreeger said,
with Virgin aiming to pare its reliance on a flat U.K. market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  