-- Warren Sees ‘A Lot of Work to Be Done’ for Consumer Protection
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-07-17T12:30:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/warren-sees-a-lot-of-work-to-be-done-for-consumer-protection.html
U.S. Senator  Elizabeth Warren , the
Massachusetts Democrat credited with conceiving the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau, said confirmation of a director for
the agency is both a major step and a call to vigilance.  “This is a monumentally important week for the CFPB,”
Warren said in remarks prepared for an event marking the second
anniversary of the agency created by the Dodd-Frank Act. “But
there’s still a lot of work to be done, and so long as the CFPB
sides with American families over large financial institutions,
there will be forces looking to undo its work.”  Richard Cordray  was confirmed as director yesterday in a
66-34 Senate vote that followed a two-year battle in which
Republican lawmakers blocked action on President  Barack Obama ’s
nomination while seeking changes to the bureau’s structure and
funding. Obama had given Cordray the job using a recess
appointment that drew Republican ire and a legal challenge.  “This is the week when we can say loudly, clearly, and
with confidence: The consumer agency is the law of the land, and
it is here to stay,” Warren said in the speech for the event
sponsored by Democracy Journal and the Corporation for
Enterprise Development.  Cordray, a former Ohio attorney general recruited by Warren
to be the bureau’s first enforcement chief when she was setting
up the agency as an aide to Obama, was nominated twice and
waited more than 700 days for a Senate vote. In exchange for
proceeding with the confirmation, Obama agreed to nominate two
new candidates to the  National Labor Relations Board .  Confirmation of Cordray provides certainty over the
bureau’s regulations and enforcement authority. With the Senate
vote, the agency will be able to exercise its full authority
over large banks and non-bank financial firms, including payday
lenders and mortgage originators.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  