-- Why U.S. Students Don’t Major in Science
-- B y   C a s s   R .   S u n s t e i n
-- 2013-07-17T22:00:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/why-american-students-don-t-major-in-science.html
In recent years, a lot of people
have been  concerned  about the relatively low numbers of science
majors among American college students. The percentage of
science and engineering graduates in the U.S. has been far below
that in China and  Japan . On various math and science tests, the
performance of U.S. students has fallen below that of students
in  South Korea ,  Singapore , Japan,  England ,  Finland ,  Israel ,
Australia and  Russia .  This is a real problem, because science majors can
contribute to economic growth and because many of them end up
with especially good jobs after graduation. In the employment
market, students with degrees in STEM (science, technology,
engineering and math) can be at a comparative advantage. The
relatively low number of American graduates in these fields has
created what some people call “the STEM crisis.”  In 2007, President  George W. Bush  signed the American
Competitiveness Initiative, designed in part to fund and spur
scientific education. In his 2011  State of the Union  address,
President  Barack Obama  announced an ambitious goal of adding
100,000 new STEM teachers over the next decade (to be achieved
through both private and public efforts).  In 2012,  Obama lamented : “Growing industries in science and
technology have twice as many openings as we have workers who
can do the job. Think about that -- openings at a time when
millions of Americans are looking for work.” But while computer-science enrollments are increasing, the number of science majors
remains disappointingly low.  Low Grades  Why is this? Are young Americans uninterested in science?  Some  new answers  come from research by  Todd  and Ralph
Stinebrickner (an academic father-and-son team).  On the basis of a unique data set, the  Stinebrickners  find
that at the time of college entrance, students think science is
an appealing major. In the study’s sample, 19.8 percent of
students believe they will choose science -- a higher percentage
than for any other discipline. In the end, however, only 7.4
percent end up majoring in it.  On this count, science stands alone. No other major
displays such a large disparity between initial expectations and
actual outcomes. It turns out that students who start as majors
in science show an unusual propensity to leave the field, and
those who don’t start in science are unlikely to switch to it.  Is there something wrong with college science teachers? Are
students bored by their courses?  The  Stinebrickners  don’t have conclusive answers, but they
provide strong hints. They collected data on students’
expectations about their grades in specific courses and compared
those expectations with their actual grades. Far more than
students in other courses, science students turn out to be
unrealistically optimistic about their performance. Their
unexpectedly low grades appear to discourage them from
continuing in science.  The study has limitations. The data come from  Berea
College , in  Kentucky , which provides a full tuition subsidy and
has a large number of low-income students. It is possible that
low-income students are especially likely to exaggerate their
likely performance in science courses. At the same time, the
liberal-arts curriculum at Berea is fairly standard, and the
 Stinebrickners ’ central findings are consistent with those that
have come from other, more impressionistic studies of student
choices.  If the conclusions generalize, the lessons are clear.
College teachers aren’t to blame. American students aren’t
uninterested in science, nor are they ignorant of the
professional opportunities that a degree in this field could
bring. Many of them would like to major in science and plan to
do so. But when they are disappointed by their own performance,
they switch. The impediment is a lack of high school
preparation.  National Challenge  To solve that problem, the U.S. needs to improve that
preparation. Of course the federal government should play a role
(not least by subsidizing teacher preparation programs), but
state and local governments have to take the lead. The good news
is that the private sector is now  doing  a great deal to promote
science education at early stages.  The U.S. can’t tolerate a situation in which its students
enter college with real enthusiasm for science, only to discover
they aren’t up to it. The nation’s economy relies on a steady
 infusion  of scientific talent, and many young Americans will
find good jobs, and realize their full potential, only if they
are equipped with the tools to take science seriously.  (Cass R. Sunstein, the Robert Walmsley University
professor at  Harvard Law School , is a Bloomberg View  columnist .
He is the former administrator of the White House Office of
Information and Regulatory Affairs, the co-author of “Nudge” and
author of “Simpler: The Future of Government.”)  To contact the writer of this article:
Cass R. Sunstein at  csunstei@law.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 