-- Wirecard Falls on EU Proposal to Cap Fees on Credit Cards
-- B y   W e i x i n   Z h a
-- 2013-07-17T14:29:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/wirecard-falls-on-eu-proposal-to-cap-fees-on-credit-cards.html
Wirecard AG (WDI) , a German maker of
electronic-payment software, fell the most in 5 1/2 months as
the European Commission considered plans to cap fees on all
consumer debit- and credit-card transactions.  Wirecard  declined  as much as 7.9 percent to 20.15 euros,
the steepest intraday drop since Jan. 31, and was trading down
2.3 percent at 4:24 p.m. in Frankfurt, valuing the company at
2.4 billion euros ($3.15 billion). Trading volume was about four
times the three-month daily average.  The European Union regulator would limit interchange fees
paid by retailers to 0.2 percent a transaction on debit-card
payments and 0.3 percent on credit cards, according to draft
plans obtained by Bloomberg News. Industrywide revenue would
drop 48 percent to 2.5 billion euros for debit-card fees and 39
percent to 3.5 billion euros for credit-card charges, the
Financial Times reported earlier today.  Shares of Aschheim, Germany-based Wirecard are “trading at
a high multiple, since a lot of growth expectations are priced
into it,” Knut Woller, a Unterschleissheim, Germany-based
analyst at  Baader Bank AG (BWB) , said by phone. “Therefore, any
question mark behind the growth potential has a negative
impact.”  Even so, the drop isn’t justified as “the net effect of
the cap on the transfer interchange fee on earnings is nil,” as
Wirecard collects transaction fees and mostly redirects them to
the card issuers, such as  Visa Inc. (V) , Woller said.  Electronic payments and risk management accounted for 66
percent of Wirecard’s revenue in 2012, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Mid-term, Wirecard may actually benefit from the ceiling,
since it would make it cheaper for retailers to accept the cards
and therefore could result in a broader penetration of credit
card usage also in the online space,” Woller said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weixin Zha in  Frankfurt  at 
 wzha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  