-- Wisconsin Abortion Restrictions Remain Blocked by Judge
-- B y   M a r i e   R o h d e   a n d   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-07-17T17:56:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/wisconsin-abortion-restrictions-remain-blocked-by-judge.html
A federal judge in  Wisconsin 
extended a block on a state law requiring abortion providers to
have admission privileges at hospitals near their clinics.  U.S. District Judge William M. Conley in Madison, the
state’s capital, granted the request of a state  Planned
Parenthood  affiliate, which alleged that the new requirement
wasn’t medically necessary and would lead to the shutdown of
half of the state’s abortion providers. He is expected to decide
whether to impose a more permanent block within 14 days.  “The fact that a few doctors are willing to say it’s a
good idea is not enough,” Conley said of the hospital privilege
requirement during a hearing today. He discussed the possibility
of appointing a medical expert to look into whether the law is
beneficial to women’s health.  The new measure, signed into law July 5, requires abortion
providers to have admission privileges at hospitals within 30
miles (48 kilometers) of their clinics. Opponents say that it
can be difficult for doctors who perform abortions to obtain
those privileges because too few of their patients have
complications that require hospitalization and because some
hospitals have religions objections to abortions.  Doctors had little time to comply with the law, set to go
into effect July 8 and put on hold by Conley this month. The
 American Civil Liberties Union  sued on behalf of Planned
Parenthood of Wisconsin Inc. the day the bill was signed.  Staff Cuts  The law would force clinics in  Milwaukee  and Appleton to
close and cause Planned Parenthood to cut staff and services at
another clinic in Milwaukee, according to the complaint.
Milwaukee is the state’s most populous city.  Daniel Lennington, assistant attorney general for
Wisconsin, argued in court today that even if women have to
travel an additional 100 miles to obtain an abortion, that
wouldn’t be an undue burden. They also could go out of state for
the procedure, he said.  “It’s not as if there is a wall around Wisconsin,”
Lennington said in response to questions from Conley. “Roughly
10 percent of Wisconsin women already go to  Minneapolis .”  The case is Planned Parenthood of Wisconsin Inc. v.  Van
Hollen , 3:13-cv-00465, U.S. District Court, Western District of
Wisconsin (Madison).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marie Rohde in Milwaukee at 
 fmarierohde@gmail.com ;
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  