-- Witkoff Said to Buy NYC Park Lane Hotel for $660 Million
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t   a n d   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-07-17T17:01:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/witkoff-said-to-buy-nyc-park-lane-hotel-for-660-million.html
Investors led by the  Witkoff Group 
agreed to buy the Helmsley Park Lane Hotel on Manhattan’s
 Central Park  South for about $660 million, according to a person
with knowledge of the transaction.  The purchase, from the estate of  Leona Helmsley , is
expected to be completed by the end of November, said the
person, who asked not to be named because the deal is private.
Witkoff Group, a New York-based developer, is leading a team
that includes unidentified foreign partners, the person said.  The buyers, who plan to invest a substantial amount of
equity, are considering options that range from converting the
property into a combination of condominiums and hotel rooms, to
demolishing and replacing the 46-story tower with a new
building, the person said.  The investors intend to turn the majority of the property
into luxury condos, according to the Wall Street Journal, which
reported the planned sale on its website late yesterday.  Witkoff Group Chief Executive Officer Steven Witkoff and
Scott Alper, a company principal, didn’t immediately return
telephone calls seeking comment on the deal. Bob McGrath, a
spokesman for brokerage  CBRE Group Inc. (CBG) , which represented the
seller, declined to comment. Kevin Cavanaugh, a spokesman for
the Helmsley estate, didn’t immediately return a phone message.  The hotel features views of Central Park and is home to the
Park Room restaurant and Harry’s  New York  Bar & Lounge. Room
rates start at $337.50 a night for the week of July 22,
according to the property’s  website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net ;
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  