-- Two Koreas Plan More Talks After Failing to Reach Gaeseong Deal
-- B y   H e e s u   L e e
-- 2013-07-17T09:57:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/two-koreas-hold-fourth-round-of-talks-aimed-at-gaeseong-restart.html
North and South Korea ended a fourth
round of talks without a deal on restarting operations at the
jointly operated Gaeseong industrial park, instead scheduling
more discussions next week.  Negotiators at Gaeseong, located 10 kilometers (6 miles)
north of the border, couldn’t agree on a system that would
prevent North Korea from unilaterally closing the park, South
Korea’s Unification Ministry said in a statement today. Talks
will resume July 22.  “While we stressed the importance of implementing a system
to prevent future closures, the North hasn’t shown much change
in stance from previous talks,” said Kim Ki Woong, head of the
South Korean delegation, according to the statement.  North Korea withdrew its workers from the factory zone on
April 8 to protest tightened United Nations sanctions and U.S.-
South Korean military drills. Regime leader Kim Jong Un has
toned down rhetoric from earlier this year that included threats
of preemptive nuclear strikes. Kim’s international isolation
intensified after  China , the North’s biggest backer, joined the
U.S. and South Korea in condemning his nuclear ambitions.  “As long as the North doesn’t show that it’s willing to
end its nuclear program, it will be extremely difficult for the
two countries to come to an agreement,” said Kim Yeon Su, a
professor at the Korea National Defense University in Seoul.  South Korean President Park Geun Hye’s government has said
it won’t engage the North until it gives up its nuclear weapons,
aside from talks on joint economic projects and humanitarian
issues.  Closing Gaeseong deprived Kim’s regime of a key source of
hard currency. North Korea earned $100 million each year from
the zone, according to Yang Moo Jin, a professor at the
University of North Korean Studies in  Seoul .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heesu Lee in Seoul at 
 hlee425@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  