-- Women ‘Key’ to Safeguarding Japan Equities’ Future, Survey Shows
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 2013-07-17T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/women-are-key-to-safeguard-japan-stock-future-survey-shows.html
Japan Exchange Group Inc. (8697) , the
operator of the largest stock exchange outside the U.S. by
value, needs to attract more female investors, according to a
report released yesterday based on a  survey  of 10,000 people.  Men outnumber women by about 2-to-1 among people claiming
to have knowledge about equities, according to the results of
the survey conducted by NTT Data Institute of Management
Consulting Inc. on behalf of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Female
respondents said they don’t invest because the risks look very
high, they don’t feel they have the knowledge and they believe
investing is speculative or only for rich people, the survey,
commissioned by in March, showed.  The research comes as Japanese stocks enjoy the strongest
rally in 30 years amid expectations Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
and the central bank will beat 15 years of deflation and spur an
economic recovery. Women between 30 and 40 years old have
higher-than-average savings and it’s vital to increase their
awareness and familiarity with investing, the report says.  “There has been so much about the rise in the Japanese
stock markets in the media, yet awareness about stocks remains
very low,” NTT Data said via a media release accompanying the
survey. “The fact that women aged 30-40, who have the means,
have low awareness of stocks is a concern.”  Females make up about 40 percent of people with financial
assets between five and 10 million yen, according to the survey.
Japanese households had 848.2 trillion yen ($8.5 trillion) in
cash and deposits at the end of March according to central bank
flow of funds figures released in June.  About 22 percent of the population invest in stocks
compared with about 50 percent in the U.S., the survey said.
That compares with about 24.4 percent when the survey was last
conducted in September.  “The number of stock investors hasn’t increased much in
the past six months,” the report said. “This shows that the
mountain of individual investors hasn’t spread but rather that
existing individual investors have increased the frequency of
their trades as the market improved.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  