-- Won Touches One-Month High as Overseas Investors Buy Stocks
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-07-17T01:43:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/won-touches-one-month-high-as-overseas-investors-buy-stocks.html
South Korea’s won touched its
highest level in more than a month after foreign funds added to
their holdings of local stocks amid speculation the  Federal
Reserve  will maintain its bond-buying program.  Overseas investors bought $128 million more local shares
than they sold in the first two days of this week, exchange data
show. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who said last week that the
U.S. will need stimulus “for the foreseeable future,” is
scheduled to testify on monetary policy before the House
Financial Services Committee today.  “Strong dollar supply continues and overseas investors
have been net-purchasing South Korean stocks lately,” said Han Sung Min, a currency trader at Busan Bank in  Seoul . “The won’s
rise won’t be big as traders are in wait-and-see mode before
Bernanke speaks.”  The currency was little changed at 1,117.95 per dollar as
of 10:17 a.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It earlier touched 1,114.06, the strongest level since June 7.
One-month implied volatility, a gauge of expected moves in the
 exchange rate  used to price options, fell three basis points to
8.06 percent.  South Korea’s economy is improving and is on track as
expected, Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok said yesterday in
Sejong. Any U.S. exit from quantitative easing may prompt
capital outflows from other nations and the Fed must carefully
decide on the timing and pace of the tapering, Hyun said.  South Korea producer prices fell for a ninth straight month
in June, declining 1.4 percent from a year earlier after a 2.6
percent drop in May,  Bank of Korea  said in a statement today.  The yield on the 2.75 percent government notes due June
2016 rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 2.88
percent, snapping a two-day drop, according to prices from Korea
Exchange Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  