-- Johnson Leads Woods, Mickelson by Three at British Open
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-07-19T08:09:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/woods-says-muirfield-difficulties-seen-bringing-first-time-champ.html
Tiger Woods and  Phil Mickelson  trail
 British Open  golf leader  Zach Johnson  by three shots entering
the second day, when former champion  Mark O’Meara  struggled
early on.  Johnson, the 2007 Masters Tournament winner, shot a 5-under-par 66 at Muirfield in Gullane,  Scotland , with four
birdies and an eagle before his only bogey at the 14th hole. He
holds a one-shot lead over Rafael Cabrera-Bello of Spain.  American O’Meara, the 1998 Open winner who was tied with
Cabrera-Bello after the first round, fell to 1-under after six
holes today following a bogey and double-bogey.  Woods was the last opening-round leader to win the
tournament, in 2005. The bookmakers’ favorite to take his first
major title since 2008, Woods bogeyed the first hole after
hitting a tree with his tee shot.  The 14-time major champion made birdie at No. 4 and bogeyed
the sixth. Three birdies over the first four holes on the final
nine took him to 2 under before another bogey on 14, when his
putt from the front of the sun-baked green rolled off the back.
He returned to 2 under with a birdie at 17.  Temperatures of 24 degrees Celsius (75 Fahrenheit) and an
increasing wind helped make the course hard and firm yesterday
afternoon.  “As the golf course dried out it got quick,” Woods told
reporters. “I mean, I putted the ball off the green today, and
it really wasn’t that bad a putt. Anything that goes four feet
by, it’s gone. It was tough.”  Early Start  Mickelson was happy he played in the morning.  “I love the fact that I shot under par, because it’s a
very challenging course,” he said.  More sun is forecast for today, with temperatures rising to
a maximum of 22 degrees Celsius, according to the U.K. Met
Office.  Woods begins at 9:44 a.m. local time today and Mickelson
tees off at 2:45 p.m., 22 minutes before Johnson starts his
second round. The first group teed off at 6:32 a.m.  Johnson was in the clubhouse when Shiv Kapur, a 31-year-old
from New Delhi who plays on the Asian Tour, birdied six of the
first seven holes before falling back after a double-bogey on
the 10th hole and bogey on the 14th. Kapur is joined at 3 under
by Spain’s Miguel Angel Jimenez and Americans Brandt Snedeker,
 Dustin Johnson  and Tom Lehman, the 1996 Open champion who has
made five straight pars to start his round today.  Woods and Mickelson are a shot further back alongside 2004
Open champion Todd Hamilton of the U.S., two-time major winner
 Angel Cabrera  of Argentina and Jordan Spieth, a 19-year-old
American who claimed the final place in the field by winning the
John Deere Classic over Johnson last weekend. Spieth has opened
his round with four consecutive pars.  McIlroy Struggles  Rory McIlroy’s struggles continued in a round of 8-over 79.
The two-time major winner from  Northern Ireland , who is seeking
his first victory of the season, made a pair of double-bogeys in
shooting a 42 on the final nine holes.  “I wish I could stand up here and tell you guys what’s
wrong or what I need to do to make it right, because I feel like
I’ve got the shots,” McIlroy told reporters. “It’s just a
matter of going through the right thought process to hit them
and that’s something that I obviously haven’t been doing
recently.”  McIlroy’s score was his second worst at the Open, one shot
behind the 80 he had in gusting winds during the second round at
 St. Andrews  in 2010.  Defending champion Ernie Els of  South Africa  shot a 3-over-par 74, while U.S. Open winner  Justin Rose  of England had a 75.
Masters champion  Adam Scott  of  Australia  shot an even-par 71.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  