-- Dollar Strengthens as Data Fuel Bets on Fed Tapering; Yen Slides
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-07-18T21:21:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/yen-holds-losses-on-bets-g-20-will-endorse-boj-stimulus.html
The dollar rose versus 13 of its 16
most-traded peers as better-than-forecast data on U.S. jobless
claims and regional manufacturing added to bets the  Federal
Reserve  will cut monetary stimulus as the economy improves.  The yen fell for a second day versus the dollar on bets
Group-of-20 finance ministers and central bankers meeting this
week will endorse  Bank of Japan  monetary easing designed to
stoke inflation to 2 percent. The euro pared its loss versus the
greenback after a censure move against  Portugal ’s government was
defeated in parliament. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the
central bank’s bond buying may be halted around mid-2014.  “The market is still bullish the dollar,”  Marc Chandler ,
chief currency strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in
New York, said in a telephone interview. “But people may still
price in greater doubt about the timing of Fed tapering. There
might still be an adjustment of expectations around Fed
policy.”  The dollar rose 0.8 percent to 100.43 yen at 5 p.m. New
York time and touched 100.66, the highest level since July 10.
It appreciated as much as 0.4 percent to $1.3067 per euro in a
second daily advance before trading at $1.3109, up 0.1 percent.
The 17-nation currency gained 0.7 percent to 131.65 yen and
reached 131.89, the strongest since May 31.  The dollar remained higher after Moody’s Investors Service
revised the U.S.’s Aaa credit-rating outlook to stable from
negative, saying in a statement the government’s debt trajectory
has stabilized. Moody’s affirmed the top rating.  Aussie, Real  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Global FX Volatility Index, a
measure of currency fluctuations, declined to 9.96 percent, the
lowest on a closing basis since May 30. It touched a one-year
intraday high of 11.96 percent on June 24.  Australia ’s dollar declined versus most major counterparts
after the nation’s business-confidence index for the next three
months dropped to negative 1 in the second quarter, from 2 in
the previous period. The data added to the case for an interest-rate cut next month by the central bank. The currency weakened
0.7 percent to 91.70 U.S. cents after earlier falling 1.1
percent, the most in almost a week.  The Brazilian real rose against most emerging-market peers
as risk appetite increased and global stocks advanced. It was
little changed versus the dollar at 2.2276 to the U.S. currency.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  increased 0.5 percent, and
the MSCI World Index added 0.5 percent.  The greenback extended its gain versus the yen after the
Philadelphia Fed’s general economic index increased to 19.8 in
July, more than double the forecast of 8 in a Bloomberg survey,
from 12.5 the prior month. Readings greater than zero signal
expansion in the region.  Jobless Claims  Claims for jobless benefits in the U.S.  dropped  last week
by 24,000 to 334,000, the fewest since early May, from a revised
358,000 the prior week, Labor Department data showed today. A
Bloomberg survey projected 345,000.  The Fed buys $85 billion of Treasuries and mortgage debt
each month as part of its third round of quantitative-easing
stimulus to cap borrowing costs, a program that tends to debase
the currency. Bernanke said last month the purchases may slow
this year and stop in the middle of next year if economic growth
meets policy makers’ projections.  Bernanke told the Senate Banking Committee today it was
“way too early to make any judgment” as to whether tapering
will start in September. He delivered his semi-annual report on
monetary policy to the panel after telling the House Financial
Services Committee yesterday he’ll take a wait-and-see stance on
stimulus. The  Federal Open Market Committee  wants to assure the
 U.S. economy  and labor markets have sufficient momentum before
reducing asset purchases.  View Unchanged  “People haven’t really changed their view of when tapering
is going to occur,” Dan Dorrow, head of research at Faros
Trading LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a telephone
interview. “The Fed has said we really need to have cumulative
data. We’re in Bernanke mode right now.”  The Bloomberg  Dollar Index , which tracks the greenback
against 10 other major currencies, rose 0.2 percent to 1,034.62
after increasing 0.2 percent yesterday.  The yen weakened for the fourth time in five days against
the greenback after Russian Deputy Finance Minister Sergei Storchak said the G-20 probably won’t call for a tapering of
stimulus in nations including  Japan .  BOJ Purchases  The BOJ doubled monthly bond purchases to more than 7
trillion yen ($70 billion) in April after Prime Minister Shinzo
Abe urged the central bank to take steps to overcome deflation.  The yen fell 23 percent in the past year, the biggest loser
among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro gained 9.2 percent in the
best performance, and the dollar rose 1.5 percent.  The euro touched a seven-week high versus the yen as Greek
lawmakers passed a bill that put thousands of state workers on
notice for possible dismissal, clearing the way for the
country’s next bailout installment.  The shared currency trimmed its loss versus the dollar
after a censure motion by the  Green Party  against the government
was rejected by lawmakers. Portugal’s political parties held a
fifth day of talks to hammer out a deal on how to meet the
austerity terms demanded in a European Union-led bailout.  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $30 billion, compared with $31 billion yesterday,
according to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust
Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on
the dollar-yen  exchange rate  amounted to $7 billion, the largest
share of trades at 23 percent. Euro-dollar options totaled $2
billion, or 7 percent.  Dollar-yen options trading was 22 percent below the average
for the past five Thursdays at a similar time in the day,
according to Bloomberg analysis. Euro-dollar options trading was
53 percent lower than average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  