-- Mylan, Toyota, Facebook, Museum: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-07-17T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/mylan-toyota-facebook-museum-intellectual-property.html
Mylan Inc. (MYL)  and Sandoz AG won the
dismissal of lawsuits by  Teva (TEVA)  Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.
that claimed the pharmaceutical companies infringed its patents
for a drug used to treat multiple sclerosis.  U.S. District Judge Katherine Forrest in Manhattan,
granting the drug companies’ motions to dismiss the cases in
their entirety, said they are using technology different from
what’s in Teva’s patents, according to a filing yesterday.  “Any case or controversy that may have existed at the
outset of these cases when filed has been mooted,” Forrest said
in her opinion.  Sandoz, based in  Basel ,  Switzerland , and Canonsburg,
Pennsylvania-based Mylan were sued by Petach Tikva, Israel-based
Teva after they filed with the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration 
for approval of generic drugs to compete with Teva’s  Copaxone ,
which is prescribed to reduce the frequency of relapses in MS
patients.  The cases are Teva Pharmaceuticals USA v. Sandoz, 09-10112,
and Teva Pharmaceuticals v. Mylan Pharmaceuticals, 10-7246, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Toyota, Qantas in Talks Over Trademarks for Shape of Jumps  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Qantas Airways Corp. (QAN) ’s Jetstar Unit
have entered into negotiations over who owns trademark rights in
 Australia  to a movement known as a “star jump,” the Brisbane
Times  reported .  Toyota, which has used the performance of a straight-legged
star jump in its “ Oh What a Feeling” ads  for 30 years, has
registered 18 versions of star jumps as Australian trademarks in
the past year, according to the newspaper.  Jetstar has opposed 12 of those trademarks because they are
images of the jump with extended arms performed with straight
legs  used in its ads , the Times reported.  Jetstar told the Times that it didn’t oppose other six
versions because they were performed with bent knees, and “we
are not concerned about the bent-knee star jumps.”  Facebook Objects to ‘Facelook’ Hair Salon in Abu Dhabi  Facebook Inc. (FB) , operator of the world’s most used social
media site, is considering infringement actions against a hair
salon in Dubai, the National newspaper  reported .  The owner of the Facelook salon told the Abu Dhabi-based
National that he had registered the name under the laws of the
 United Arab Emirates  and hadn’t run into any problems.  Hair salons often use names containing puns, such as
Sherlock Combs and Grateful Head, according to the newspaper.  A spokesman for  Menlo Park , California-based Facebook said
the company is careful to protect its brand and is investigating
the case, according to the National.  Specialty Spice Company Wins $3.2 Million Trademark Damages  Purepecha Enterprises Inc., an Illinois-based company that
produces spice mixtures for the Mexican food market, was awarded
$3.2 million and attorney fees in a trademark dispute.  The company sued El Matador Spices & Dry Chiles in federal
court in  Chicago  in April 2011, accusing it of using Purepecha’s
trademarks without authorization to sell its own spice mixtures.  Earlier the court found that Montclair, California-based El
Matador had infringed the marks and entered a default judgment
in Purepecha’s favor. According to the court’s July 8 order, the
defendants failed on multiple occasions to secure counsel and
appear at status hearings during the past 10 months.  The defendants also failed to meet deadlines for various
procedural stages in the case, U.S. District Judge Amy J. St.
Eve said in her ruling.  The court relied on damages analysis performed by Benjamin
Wilner of Grant Thornton LLP’s Forensic, Investigative and
Dispute Service. Wilner looked at profits the defendants derived
from their infringement and to Purepecha’s lost profits. He came
up with the $3.2 million damages recommendation, which the court
accepted without modification.  St. Eve rejected Purepecha’s request that the damages be
tripled, saying that because El Matador was in the process of
challenging the  Illinois  company’s trademark, the court couldn’t
conclude that it knowingly used a counterfeit mark.  The case is Purepecha Enterprises Inc. v. El Matador Spices
& Dry Chiles, 1:11-cv-02569, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Illinois (Chicago).  Hachette Filipacchi Says EllaHairStraightener.com Infringes  Hachette Filipacchi Presse SA, the closely held French
publisher of Elle magazine, sued a distributor of hair-straightening devices for trademark infringement.  The publisher objects to the company’s use of “Ella” for
a website and product name, claiming they infringe the
trademarks for its publication.  Ricardo Orduz of North Miami Beach,  Florida , who does
business as EllaHairStraightener.com, is using “Ella” to trade
off the fame of Hachette’s Elle marks, according to a complaint
filed July 16 in  Manhattan  federal court.  Hachette said in a filing that it has registered “Elle”
for use with a wide range of hair products and accessories, and
that Ella products also fall into this category. The company
said Ella products are relatively inexpensive, so potential
consumers are unlikely to exercise a great deal of care in
making their purchases, thus increasing the chance they would
assume a connection between the magazine and the Ella items.  The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office has already refused to
register “Ella” as a trademark for an electric hair-straightening iron as a result of opposition from Hachette,
according to the complaint.  Orduz didn’t respond immediately to an e-mail to
EllaHairStraightener.com requesting comment on the suit.  Hachette asked the court to bar further infringement of the
Elle marks, and to order the cancellation of Orduz’s Internet
domain name. Additionally, the publisher is seeking money
damages, attorney fees and litigation costs.  The case is Hachette Filipacchi Presse v. Orduz, 13-cv-04936, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  China Museum Shut Down After Exhibits Found to Be Forgeries  Chinese authorities forced the closing of a museum curated
by a local Communist Party boss in northern  China  after
determining that almost all of the items in its 50 million-yuan
($8.1 million) collection were fake.  Forgeries at the museum in  Hebei province  included an item
billed as a five-color porcelain vase from the Tang Dynasty,
even though the artistic technique wasn’t invented until
hundreds of years later, the Shanghai Daily said in a story
yesterday. Another item was purportedly signed in simplified
Chinese by an emperor said to have lived more than 3,000 years
before the writing system was invented.  Residents in nearby village of Erpu had long argued that
the party boss who oversaw the collection bought fake items with
money raised for the museum, the Global Times newspaper said
yesterday. The museum, called Jibaozhai, was shut after photos
of its exhibits appeared online with a story questioning their
authenticity, the newspaper said.  “Jibaozhai has no qualification to be a museum as its
collections are fake and it hasn’t reported to my department for
approval,” said an official from the Hebei cultural heritage
bureau, according to the Global Times.  Counterfeiters in China have faked everything from medicine
to Kweichow Moutai’s high-end liquor to  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  stores. At
strategic talks with the U.S. this month, Chinese government
officials promised to do more to protect  intellectual property .  The official Xinhua News agency reported that the museum
was founded with a 50 million-yuan investment. A story on
Sina.com included photographs of figurines on display with the
caption “fake collections.”  The Shanghai Daily quoted museum deputy curator Shao
Baoming as saying that “at least half” of the exhibits on
display were authentic.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  