-- Hypo Alpe Said to Pick SachsenAM, Lampe to Draft Bad Bank Plan
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-07-17T11:14:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/hypo-alpe-said-to-pick-sachsenam-lampe-to-draft-bad-bank-plan.html
Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International
AG, the nationalized Austrian lender burdened with bad debt,
chose Sachsen Asset Management GmbH and Bankhaus Lampe KG to
draft a plan for spinning off its bad-assets unit, said two
people with knowledge of the decision.  Hypo Alpe, based in Klagenfurt,  Austria , told the two
German advisers to come up with a plan for the unit with at
least 12 billion euros ($16 billion) in assets that minimizes
the burden for the Austrian government’s budget, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the plan isn’t
public. A decision won’t be made before Austria’s national
elections on Sept. 29, they said.  Klaus Liebscher, the former central bank governor who leads
the government agency dealing with bank aid, known as Fimbag,
declined to comment when contacted by  Bloomberg News . Hypo Alpe,
SachsenAM and Bankhaus Lampe officials declined to comment.  Austria is accelerating Hypo Alpe’s breakup to gain
European Union approval for the 2.2 billion euros in state aid
the lender received in the last five years. Once its operating
units are sold, it will end up with the non-performing and
unsellable assets, which include Croatian hotel project loans,
leasing contracts across eastern  Europe  and seized loan
collateral ranging from shopping malls to yachts and tractors.  Debt Fears  Finance Minister Maria Fekter opposed Hypo Alpe’s plans to
spin off a “bad bank” on concern its liabilities may add to
Austria’s government debt and drive it beyond 80 percent of
gross domestic product. Chancellor Werner Faymann and Vice
Chancellor Michael Spindelegger told her to revisit the plans
after the non-performing assets caused losses and capital needs
at Hypo Alpe that have burdened Austria’s budget.  A bad bank set up as a company without a banking license
would require it to hold less capital, lowering the need for
additional state injections. Austrian banks have softened their
opposition to taking a role in a bad bank, opening the
opportunity to involve private investors in a similar way as in
Spain or Ireland. That would avoid the need for the state to
recognize the liabilities on its balance sheet.  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ’s Bank Austria unit may drop its opposition
to the plan if a bank levy is cut in return, Chief Executive
Officer Willibald Cernko said last month.  Raiffeisen Bank
International AG (RBI) ’s new CEO, Karl Sevelda, said last week that he
would look at the proposal according to the principle “do ut
des,” citing a Latin phrase meaning “I give in order that you
may give.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  