-- Yuan Snubbed by U.S. Firms as Rivals Embrace Currency, HSBC Says
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2013-07-17T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/yuan-snubbed-by-u-s-firms-as-rivals-embrace-currency-hsbc-says.html
U.S. companies lag behind global
peers in using the  yuan  for international trade, leaving them at
a disadvantage as the Chinese currency plays a bigger role in
cross-border transactions, according to  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)   Only 9 percent of the 102 U.S. business leaders surveyed by
HSBC for a report released today said they had conducted cross-border yuan transactions. In comparison, 47 countries are using
the yuan for more than 10 percent of their payments with
mainland  China  and  Hong Kong , according to the Society for
Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication.  Policy makers are loosening controls on the yuan and
promoting broader use of the currency, also known as the
 renminbi , or RMB, to match China’s rising status in the global
economy. Global yuan payments rose 24 percent in May from April,
making it the 13th-most used currency in the world, according to
Swift, the Belgium-based group that provides messaging services
to banks. The euro was No.1, followed by the dollar and pound.  “RMB use is growing among global competitors,” Prabhat
Vira, the head of global finance and trade receivables at HSBC,
 Europe ’s largest bank, said in the statement. “To remain
competitive, U.S. businesses may want to seize the renminbi
opportunity now.”  HSBC’s survey showed that two thirds of executives were
either unaware of the benefits of using the yuan or hadn’t
considered the option. Others cited a preference for the dollar
and concerns about currency fluctuation and regulations that
inhibit the yuan’s use.  Slowing Growth  Two consecutive quarters of slowing growth in China may
curb trade growth and reduce demand for the yuan.  China’s
exports (CNFREXPY)  declined 3.1 percent last month from a year earlier, the
biggest drop since 2009, while imports slipped 0.7 percent. The
second quarter’s 7.5 percent expansion extended the longest
streak of sub-8 percent growth in at least two decades.  Even so, HSBC still predicts that more than 30 percent of
China’s trade, or $2 trillion, will be settled in yuan by 2015,
almost triple the current 10.5 percent.  By switching to the yuan for trades with their Chinese
counterparts, U.S. companies can cut costs and hedge currency
risks, London-based HSBC said in the statement.  In addition, 56 percent of Chinese business leaders in the
survey said they would offer discounts of as much as 5 percent
to their trading partners for yuan-denominated transactions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net  