-- Zloty Gains Fifth Day on Bernanke, Polish Output: Warsaw Mover
-- B y   M a c i e j   O n o s z k o
-- 2013-07-17T15:32:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-17/zloty-gains-fifth-day-on-bernanke-polish-output-warsaw-mover.html
The zloty strengthened for a fifth
day, the longest streak since April, as Polish output beat
analyst expectations and Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Fed asset purchases aren’t “on a preset course”.  The zloty strengthened 0.2 percent to 4.2453 against the
euro at 4:42 p.m. in Warsaw, extending its five-day advance to
2.3 percent, the biggest gain among the more than 150 currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. The  yields  on 10-year governments bonds
rose nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 4.01
percent, after jumping as much as 18 basis points before the
publication of Bernanke’s prepared speech.  Polish industrial output rose 3 percent from a year earlier
in June, after declining 1.8 percent the previous month, the
 Central Statistical Office  in Warsaw said today. That exceeded
the median estimate for a 1.5 percent increase in a Bloomberg
survey of 31 economists. Bernanke said the U.S. central bank’s
asset purchases may be reduced more quickly or expanded as
economic conditions warrant, reassuring investors he would not
cut off the stimulus quickly if growth disappoints.  “With the more dovish tone just now from Bernanke, we can
see the zloty continue to outperform,” Peter Attard Montalto,
emerging-markets economist at Nomura International Plc, said in
an e-mailed response to questions today. “Strong growth is
clearly the decisive factor for a market that was overly”
bearish on growth this year, he said.  Appreciation Trend?  The zloty could see a “short-term retracement after such a
large” strengthening in past days, before appreciating toward
4.15 per euro by the end of September, Montalto said.  Poland ’s government, facing the slowest economic growth
since the 1990s, yesterday unveiled plans to widen the  budget
deficit  by 16 billion zloty ($4.96 billion) and suspend rules
limiting fiscal stimulus.  “Investors were prepared for such an announcement but
there is a risk that the changes in austerity measures are
ultimately perceived as a permanent loosening of fiscal
discipline,” Societe Generale SA emerging-markets strategists,
led by  Benoit Anne , wrote in a note today.  The fiscal plan “does not yet alter our medium-term view”
of Poland’s A2 credit rating and stable outlook, according to
Jaime Reusche, an assistant vice president at Moody’s Investors
Service in  New York .  “Future economic performance will be a key element in
determining whether there will be further fiscal slippage that
could pressure the government’s stable credit outlook,” he said
in an e-mailed statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Onoszko in Warsaw at 
 monoszko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  