-- 
Top Chef Serves Tough Bird, Dry Snapper at Red Rooster: Review

-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 
2011-04-06T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/-top-chef-serves-tough-bird-dry-snapper-at-harlem-rooster-ryan-sutton.html
New York has plenty of great soul
food joints. Red Rooster, which hosted a $1.5 million fundraiser
for President  Barack Obama  last week, isn’t one of them. Sorry.  The celebrity chef, Marcus Samuelsson, wants the  Rooster ,
an affordable if uneven Harlem hangout, to be a culinary
destination. So he opens the reservations book 30-days out --
just like  Thomas Keller  at Per Se.  That’s some chutzpah for generic $7 sweet potatoes, gritty
mac and cheese and ho-hum oxtails. With customers lining up
three deep at the bar, food may not be the point.  Samuelsson was 24 when his Aquavit was not just the city’s
best Scandinavian restaurant, but one of its best restaurants,
period, earning three stars from the New York Times.  Credit the “Top Chef,” now 40, for making Red Rooster an
instant social destination. It means to remind us that scenester
 Manhattan  isn’t limited to the Meatpacking District. Cue Mos Def
and Portishead on the sound system. It gets loud. It also gets
crowded, and it’s likely Samuelsson’s kitchen staff is
overwhelmed by the clamoring from every one of the 120 seats
that are never empty long.  On one of my four visits, I spotted the CEO of a small
hedge fund, drinking bourbon. That quintessential American
spirit is a highlight of the cocktail list. It replaces gin in a
Negroni to make for a darker, more complex aperitif; it gets
infused with cinnamon in a Manhattan for a spicier riff on the
classic.  Dry Run  Then the food comes. Dirty rice ($11) lives up to its name,
like spooning a mouthful straight from a box of  Zatarain’s .
Blackened catfish, no better than a prepackaged supermarket
version, arrived with black eyed peas that smelled like
dishwater. Jamaican beef patties tasted like microwaved
meatloaf; pulled pork had all the flavor of powdered  Taco Bell 
seasoning. I washed it down with a glass of  Paul Goerg  Champagne
($20) that was flat.  My companion, a citizen of Crown Heights, was mortified by
$21 fried chicken. Did the poor bird die a second death under
heat lamps? It arrives encased in an impenetrable shell that
seemed engineered to prevent anyone from reaching the inedible
dry flesh.  Baked lemon chicken was worse, the meat unseasoned and skin
soggy as a wet towel. Shredded chicken and liver ($15) was
passable after I seasoned it myself.  Wine Fine  A place called Red Rooster probably should get poultry
right. Especially when easy-sipping, fowl-friendly Rieslings get
Montrachet-worthy markups. Wines by the glass (all $20 or less)
are served in heavy, inelegant stems. A $70 bottle of J.J. Prum
from  Germany  can be had locally for $23. The asking price here
for a $46 Alsatian (Trimbach, Cuvee Frederic Emile) is almost
tripled to $130.  Samuelsson has lent his name to  Kraft ,  Chanel ,  MasterCard ,
 Buick  and a  set of pots  for sale on Amazon.com. They cost $272.  I’d like to know what kind of pans were used to undercook
my $32 steak into a cold, rare, sinewy slab, or overcook my
snapper into submission -- though it was sitting in an excellent
sour tomato broth.  A hint of kaffir lime didn’t hurt the snapper. Samuelsson,
Ethiopian-born, Swedish-adopted, Harlem-residing, is a global
fusion machine. That’s why he can pull off “smoked” Caesar
salad next to a Scandinavian plate of soft meatballs and
lingonberries.  Crab cakes, meaty and a bargain at $14, pay sweet homage to
Baltimore. Lobster salad ($17) tips a hat to both  Japan , with
wasabi, and East Africa with berbere. Order it.  At Aquavit, Samuelsson topped oysters with curry mango
sorbet. Now he nicely juices up the plump bivalves with ginger
mignonette. The kitchen sends out a cloying shot of melon vodka
as a palate cleanser. Send it back.  Fill up instead on good grits infused with spicy, smoky
chorizo and briny shrimp.  Desserts are good, too; try the cakey doughnuts or apple
pie with cheddar. But the right call to end a meal is cornbread.
It comes with honey-spiked butter so rich it tastes illegal.
Maybe, someday, Samuelsson will get soul food right.  Rating: *  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: Everything’s under $32.  Sound Level: Loud when full, 80-85 decibels.  Date Place: Yes; nice and cozy at the bar (for walk-ins).  Inside Tip: Friday tables book up a month in advance.  Special Feature: Gritty, burnt chickpea dumplings are the
token vegetarian entree. Avoid them at all costs.  Will I be back: For uptown cocktails and cornbread.  Red Rooster is at 310 Lenox Avenue, near 125th Street.
Information: +1-212-792-9001;  http://redroosterharlem.com .  
Sound-Level Chart (in decibels):  51 to 55: Quiet enough to converse sotto voce. 56 to 60: Speak
up, please. 61 to 65: Lean in if you want to hear your date. 66
to 70: You’re reading one another’s lips. 71 to 75: Heads turn
because you’re yelling. 76 to 85: Ear-splitting din.  (Ryan Sutton writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 