-- 
Abu Dhabi Commercial, Almarai, Ma’aden: Gulf Equity Preview

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-04-06T05:24:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/ma-aden-national-leasing-qatar-telecom-gulf-equity-preview.html
The following stocks may rise or
fall in Persian Gulf markets. Stock symbols are in parentheses
and prices are from the last close.  Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  slipped 0.7 percent to 1,537.68
at the 2 p.m. close in the emirate, the lowest level since March
23. Abu Dhabi’s measure dropped 0.4 percent and  Saudi Arabia ’s
 Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  retreated 0.9 percent.        Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC (ADCB)  : The United Arab
Emirates’ third-biggest bank by assets appointed Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch & Co. to
advise on whether to sell its 25 percent stake in RHB Capital
Bhd, Chief Executive Officer Ala’a Eraiqat said. The shares were
unchanged at 2.6 dirhams.       Almarai Co. (ALMARAI AB): First-quarter earnings at Saudi
Arabia’s largest food producer by market value were affected by
unrest in the Middle East and the company expects 2011 to be a
challenging year, Chief Financial Officer Georges Schorderet
said. The shares retreated 1.1 percent to 93.5 riyals.  National Leasing (NLCS)  : The Qatari investment company
reported an increase in first-quarter profit to 42.4 million
riyals ($11.3 million) from 41.8 million riyals the year
earlier. The shares were unchanged at 40 riyals.  Qatar Telecom QSC (QTEL QD): The Persian Gulf country’s
largest company by revenue submitted a final bid for a third
mobile-phone licence in  Syria . The shares advanced 3.1 percent
to 144 riyals.  Rabigh Refining and Petrochemicals Co. (PETROR AB): The
joint venture between state-owned  Saudi Aramco  and Sumitomo
Chemical Co. of  Japan  will start two months of maintenance work
at its facilities starting April 21. The shares dropped 2.8
percent to 24.15 riyals.       Ras Al Khaima Properties PJSC (RAKPROP UH): The developer
that built Ras  Al Khaimah ’s first manmade islands said it will
hand over the RAK Towers in  Abu Dhabi  soon. The shares jumped
2.6 percent to 39 fils.  Saudi Arabian Mining Co. (MAADEN AB): The state-controlled
metals producer known as Ma’aden started production of caustic
calcined magnesia. The shares declined 1.4 percent to 24.55
riyals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  