-- 
Macquarie’s Once-Paralyzed Banker Seeks Charitable Risk Takers

-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 
2011-04-06T17:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/macquarie-s-once-paralyzed-banker-seeks-charitable-risk-takers.html
Simon McKeon was paralyzed from the
hips down after collapsing at a board meeting in 1999. He feared
he’d be confined to a wheelchair for life. A year later, his
eyesight almost disappeared crossing a Melbourne street.  The dealmaker at  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  and holder of the
world sailing speed record was diagnosed with multiple
sclerosis. More than a decade on, the 55-year-old Melbourne
office chairman of Australia’s biggest investment bank is all
but free of symptoms. He says the episodes spurred his charity
work, from  counseling ex-heroin addicts  to raising money for
research into the disease which afflicted him.  “I had a real taste of what it might have been like to
suddenly have much of one’s physical capacity taken away,”
McKeon, 2011  Australian of the Year , says in an interview in his
office. “I have an extra boost of enthusiasm to not take any
day for granted.”  The mergers and acquisitions specialist is using his award
to urge businesses and their employees to give away more time,
money and resources.  McKeon was raised in  Melbourne  and graduated in law at the
city’s university. He practiced as a Sydney solicitor with Blake
Dawson Waldron. By the 1980s, McKeon’s parents were struggling
to look after his older intellectually disabled stepsister. He
resigned to return to Melbourne and take care of her.  “I saw poverty everywhere and yet I saw a vibrant local
community,” says McKeon, an  adviser  to the Big Issue, an
organization working for Australia’s homeless, and chairman of
 MS Research Australia  from 2004 to 2010.  World Vision  He switched to a part-time role at Macquarie in 1999
because of his growing charity work, including with  World Vision
Australia , the relief and development group. His service on the
World Vision  Australia  board stretched from 1994 to 2005.  McKeon’s wife, Amanda Jane, thinks he takes on too much, he
says. Self-indulgence sits uneasily with him, yet the father of
four, who held the world sailing speed record between 1993 and
2004, is unable to define what drives him to help others.  “I’m no saint,” says McKeon, who also sits on the panel
of the government’s  Human Rights Grants Scheme . “If I have too
good a time, then there’s a little voice, I don’t know whether
it’s a god or basic humanity, but it is so profound it ends up
shouting at me: “Enough’s enough.’”  He’s most disappointed by business people who think only of
themselves, and those who are financially comfortable but
unwilling to take a chance.  Richer Life  “They are not mean and nasty people,” he says. “They’ve
got their life nicely sorted out, but everything’s a bit too
comfortable. I feel sorry for them, those who don’t step outside
their zone of comfort. For them, life will be the poorer.”  Yet McKeon says deal-making bankers aren’t as uncharitable
as some might believe.  “My experience is not one that says they are just
egotistical, self-centered, money-grabbing individuals,” he
says. “I see a whole lot of other people who are talented,
aggressive, and smart, but also get a huge kick out of giving
back to the community.”  “Don’t do something just because it’s noble,” he says.
“If it doesn’t make sense to you, leave it to others. Then the
chances of it being sustainable go up immeasurably.”  To contact the writer on the story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 