-- 
ADB Boosts Outlook for Asia Growth, Suggests Capital Controls

-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 
2011-04-06T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/adb-boosts-outlook-for-asia-growth-suggests-capital-controls.html
The  Asian Development Bank  raised
its 2011 economic growth forecast for the region and said policy
makers should consider  capital controls  and more flexible
currencies as part of their inflation-fighting strategies.  Asia , excluding  Japan , will grow 7.8 percent in 2011,
faster than a September estimate of 7.3 percent, the Manila-
based lender said in its Asian Development Outlook 2011 report
today. Growth may ease to 7.7 percent next year, the ADB
forecast. The impact of Japan’s March earthquake on the region
is “likely to be temporary and limited,” it said.  Policy makers in the region are stepping up the fight
against inflation as political unrest in the Middle East boosts
crude oil prices, prompting Thailand,  South Korea  and  India  to
raise borrowing costs in March. Growth in Asia has outpaced the
rest of the world, attracting foreign funds and companies that
helped boost currencies and stocks in the past year.  “Inflation will need to be carefully managed using a mix
of policy measures, including more flexible  exchange rate 
management and coordinated capital controls, rather than simply
relying on tighter monetary policy,” the ADB said in a press
release accompanying the report. Rising food and oil prices as
well as Japan’s disaster “present a potential threat to
sustained, inclusive growth,” it said.  All of Asia’s 11 most-traded currencies except the  Hong
Kong dollar , which is pegged to its U.S. counterpart, have risen
in the past 12 months. The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of regional
stocks excluding Japan climbed more than 14 percent.  Inflation Risk  The People’s Bank of China yesterday boosted its benchmark
one-year lending rate by a quarter point to 6.31 percent, the 
fourth interest-rate increase in less than six months, signaling
the government’s determination to front-load monetary tightening
in an effort to defuse overheating risks.  The region’s policy makers have signaled they are ready to
do more to tame prices. The Philippine central bank isn’t ruling
out a further increase in borrowing costs, Governor Amando Tetangco said this month, after raising the benchmark interest
rate for the first time since August 2008 in March. Thailand may
raise rates further as the “risk balance is tilted toward
inflation,” Governor  Prasarn Trairatvorakul  said last month.  “Increasing benchmark policy rates would prompt wider
interest differentials, and so attract more volatile capital
inflows,” the ADB said. “Imposing selective and carefully
designed temporary capital-control measures on inflows might be
another option.”  Still, such measures require “high degrees of
administrative capacity to implement and should only be
exercised temporarily,” the lender said.  Brazil ’s Move  Emerging economies from  South America  to Asia have imposed
capital controls starting last year to stem the inflows of funds
seeking higher returns. Brazil announced this week it will
extend a higher tax for the renewal of some foreign loans after
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said the country will continue to
adopt measures seeking to reduce “excessive” dollar inflows.  Thailand  said in October it would remove a 15 percent tax
exemption for foreigners on income from domestic bonds as it
sought to curb currency gains that threatened exports.  “The large inflows of capital to Asia will also increase
pressure for Asian currencies to appreciate,” the ADB said.
“Allowing the exchange rate to adjust would cushion the economy
from the effects of excessive capital inflows. In fact, greater
exchange rate flexibility is a sustainable response to a
permanent increase in capital inflows by inducing a fundamental
revaluation of domestic assets relative to foreign assets.”  Commodity Prices  Currency appreciation also helps fend off inflation
pressures from increases in international commodity prices by
keeping the local currency price of these goods down, the lender
said.  Consumer-price growth in Asia will accelerate to 5.3
percent this year from 4.4 percent in 2010, the ADB forecast,
saying “many countries may already be behind the curve in
fighting inflation.”  “Developing Asia is home to two-thirds of the world’s poor
and it is they who are most vulnerable to the effects of price
increases,” Changyong Rhee, the ADB’s chief economist, said in
a statement. “Policy makers must therefore consider preemptive
action to control inflation before it accelerates.”  Expansion in the region and in the world is supported by
growth in India and  China , the lender said. China will expand
9.6 percent this year, compared with 10.3 percent in 2010, the
ADB said.  India’s economy  will grow 8.2 percent this year,
compared with 8.6 percent in 2010, it forecast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  