-- 
Haiti Election Is Chance to Re-Energize Recovery, Clinton Says

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-04-06T21:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/haiti-election-is-chance-to-re-energize-recovery-clinton-says.html
The election of former pop star
Michel Martelly as  Haiti ’s president presents a chance to
revitalize efforts to rebuild the Caribbean island nation,
former U.S. President  Bill Clinton  said at the United Nations.  “This is an enormous opportunity to rebuild the Haitian
economy,” Clinton, the special UN envoy for Haitian relief,
told the UN Security Council today. “The democratic transition
of power, to anyone who understands the history of Haiti, is a
cause for celebration. This is a remarkable thing.”  The Haiti Electoral Council announced this week that
Martelly won a runoff election and will be inaugurated as
president in May.  Colombia ’s President  Juan Manuel Santos , whose country
holds the Security Council’s rotating presidency this month,
called the meeting to assess Haiti’s recovery from the
earthquake that killed 300,000 people and the cholera epidemic
that claimed 4,600 lives last year. Haiti’s President Rene Preval, ministers of 11 other Latin American nations and UN
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon also attended the meeting.  “The country’s economy is on its knees,” Ban said, noting
that 680,000 Haitians displaced by the earthquake remain in
camps and that only 20 percent of the rubble has been removed.
He said in a report to the  Security Council  that Martelly faces
“growing disenchantment” with the government’s inability to
provide basic health and other services.  Clinton said only 37 percent of the $5 billion pledged at a
donors conference in March 2010 has been disbursed. The peaceful
election, he said should spur greater delivery of the pledges
and disbursements.  ‘Meager Results’  “The meager results achieved require us to reflect on the
manner in which we are carrying out our work,” Santos said.
“This is an ideal opportunity to reorganize.”  Santos suggested that the UN peacekeeping mission in Haiti,
which includes 12,000 soldiers and civilian police, be
reconfigured to add personnel to clear debris and rebuild
government offices destroyed in the January 2010 earthquake. The
“greatest enemies” of stability and development, he said, are
“fragile control and supply of basic services” by the
government.  Preval, describing himself as the first Haitian president
in 25 years to leave office without being jailed or exiled,
called on Martelly to “govern in a spirit of openness,
inclusive dialogue and respect for the rights of association and
expression.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  