-- 
Al-Qaeda Fears in U.S. Buy Time for Saleh as Clashes in Yemen Escalate

-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-04-07T11:19:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/al-qaeda-fear-in-u-s-buys-saleh-time-as-yemen-clashes-escalate.html
Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh
is facing down mass protests and defections with backing from
the U.S. and Saudi Arabia, who are betting it’s safer to let a
key ally against al-Qaeda leave on his own terms.  Like  Muammar Qaddafi  in  Libya , Saleh justified his violent
crushing of anti-government protests by arguing his downfall
would lead to anarchy and a greater threat from Islamic
terrorists. The difference is Saleh, who called Yemen a “time
bomb,” has support in Washington and Riyadh.  This year’s wave of Arab unrest has shown the U.S. is
willing to dump longtime partners like  Egypt ’s  Hosni Mubarak  as
well as more recent ones like Qaddafi. In Yemen, the poorest
Arab state and already a base for al-Qaeda attacks, Saleh’s
army, government and much of his tribal base have abandoned the
president, yet the U.S. is reluctant to do so. The standoff adds
to the risk of a Libya-style conflict as violence escalates.  “Two weeks ago, it was really looking like game over for
Saleh, then all of a sudden he seemed to have gotten a second
wind,” said  Gregory Johnsen , a  Yemen  scholar at  Princeton
University . “The only two foreign voices that matter for Yemen
are the U.S. and Saudi Arabia. They are scrambling now with the
reality that Saleh’s days may be numbered.”  U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  said last week that he
saw the possible fall of Saleh as a “real problem.” Mark Toner, acting deputy spokesman for the U.S. State Department,
said on April 4 that while Saleh must respond to public demands,
“it’s not for us to impose a solution.”  Crackdown Hardens  Saleh’s treatment of the protest movement, now in its third
month, has hardened. The shooting of 46 protesters by police and
snipers in the capital, Sana’a, on March 18 sparked a wave of
defections from the regime.  This week, at least a dozen protesters were killed in the
town of Taiz when they battled with police, and in Sana’a there
were reports that soldiers from a rebel-led division clashed
with Saleh’s supporters.  Saudi Arabia , holder of the world’s biggest oil reserves,
this week invited Yemen’s government and opposition to Riyadh as
part of an effort by the six-member Gulf Cooperation Council to
resolve the crisis and preserve “stability and security” in
Yemen. The official Saudi Press Agency said Saleh, 68, welcomed
the mediation. He had earlier offered to stand down provided
there was a transition plan, and then said he would make no more
concessions to opposition “arm-twisting.”  ‘Key Solution’  The prime minister of GCC member Qatar, Sheikh Hamad Bin Jasim Bin Jaber Al Thani, said the group is hoping to broker an
accord that would involve Saleh stepping down, according to the
state-run Qatar News Agency. The Joint Meeting Parties, Yemen’s
main opposition coalition, welcomed its invitation to join the
 Riyadh  talks and called Saleh’s departure “the key solution.”  Yemen is the ancestral home of al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden. It was the site of the 2000 attack on the USS Cole that
killed 17 U.S. sailors, and the breeding ground for plots
including the attempt to bomb a Detroit-bound plane in December
2009. In October, Dubai police said they intercepted two parcel
bombs en route from Yemen to U.S. synagogues.  When a blast at a weapons factory in the south last week
left about 100 people dead, the government pointed to al-Qaeda
and the opposition charged Saleh with fomenting chaos and then
posing as the only bulwark against it.  ‘Complete Breakdown’  “If there is a complete breakdown of order in Yemen, al-
Qaeda Arabian Peninsula could have more freedom of operation,”
Gregory Gause, a professor at the University of  Vermont , said in
response to e-mailed questions.  The U.S. gives Yemen $300 million a year mainly in military
aid. It has done less to tackle the social problems that help
militants flourish, said Will Picard, co-founder of the  Yemen
Peace Project , which is based in  California  and Sana’a and aims
to promote dialogue between the countries.  The government in  Washington  “looks at Yemen through one
lens, the lens of counter-terrorism,” Picard said. “It’s
always going to be harder to impress Congress with water
catchment systems and pre-natal health clinics than with
predator drones and covert strike teams.”  Saudi Arabia funnels about $1 billion a year to Yemen in an
attempt to keep the country “contained” and buy tribal
support, according to Mustafa Alani, director of the security
and terrorism program at the Gulf Research Center in Dubai.  Assassination Attempt  Al-Qaeda’s Yemen-based wing tried to assassinate the top
Saudi anti-terrorism official, Prince Muhammad bin Nayef bin
Abdulaziz, in 2009. The same year, Shiite Houthi insurgents in
northern Yemen seized a sliver of Saudi territory and killed a
Saudi soldier, prompting retaliation with air attacks.  King Abdullah  sent troops into  Bahrain , another neighbor,
last month to help quash Shiite-led protests. The risk of
military intervention in Yemen, though, is that “it is very
easy to get in but would be very difficult to get out,” Alani
said. “It’s like  Afghanistan  with the geography, a tribal
system and a heavily armed society.”  Yemen is the second most-heavily armed in the world, after
the U.S. on a per-capita basis, with 54.8 guns per 100 people,
according to the  Small Arms Survey 2007  by the Geneva-based
Graduate Institute of International Studies.  Tunisia , where
protesters ousted their president in January and triggered the
season of uprisings, placed last in the study.  ‘Factions in Uniform’  The challenges also stretch beyond security. The country
faces water shortages, declining oil output and a society where
more than half the 23 million people are under 20 years old.
About 40 percent of Yemen’s population, forecast to almost
double by 2030, lives on less than $2 a day.  Yemen also lacks a unified military that could oversee a
transition. Ali Mohsen al-Ahmar, the commander of the First
Armored Division, has joined the opposition and his troops
clashed with government supporters in Sana’a this week.  “We don’t have a military, we have tribal factions in
uniform,” Abdul Ghani Aryani, an independent political analyst,
said from Sana’a. “They cannot be a safeguard for social order
and stability. They are only a source of threat.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivian Salama in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net ;
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 