-- 
American Apparel Said to Look to Raise Cash to Stave Off Liquidity Crunch

-- B y   M a t t h e w   T o w n s e n d
-- 
2011-04-06T20:19:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/american-apparel-said-to-look-to-raise-cash-to-stave-off-crunch.html
American Apparel Inc. (APP) , the Los
Angeles clothing maker striving to avert a cash shortage, may
look to raise as much as $8 million, said a person familiar with
the financing.  The company hired Rothschild to pursue investments from
current investors and outsiders, said the person, who asked not
to be identified because the terms aren’t public. They would be
similar to the private placement the retailer did with founder
Dov Charney last month, according to the person.  The investments aren’t definite, as some executives expect
 cash flow  to improve as sales climb with the onset of warmer
weather, the person said. A cash infusion may ease some
investors’ concerns about American Apparel, which said last week
that it’s at risk of filing for  bankruptcy protection  without
improved liquidity or an operational turnaround.  American Apparel has amended loan agreements with  Lion
Capital LLP  at least five times to avoid breaching debt
covenants. Charney, also the chairman, chief executive officer
and the majority shareholder, paid about $2 million for 1.8
million shares in a private placement, according to regulatory
filings dated March 24.  American Apparel declined 2 cents to 80 cents at 4:01 p.m.
in NYSE Amex trading. The shares have dropped 53 percent this
year. The stock traded at an all-time high of $15.80 in December
2007.  The company isn’t pursuing a sale, according to the person.
Peter Schey, a spokesman for American Apparel, declined to
comment. Representatives at Rothschild didn’t immediately return
a call.  The retailer, known for its colorful t-shirts and
provocative ads, has lost money for four straight quarters and
forecast an operating loss for the year. Total sales fell to
$533 million last year as productivity slumped following the
firing of about 1,500 workers. That, coupled with increasing
costs for yarn and fabric, ate into profitability, American
Apparel said April 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  