-- 
American Superconductor Loses Half Its Market Value After Order Cancelled

-- B y   R a n d a l l   H a c k l e y   a n d   M a r c   R o c a
-- 
2011-04-06T21:59:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/american-superconductor-poised-to-decline-after-downgrades-order-loss.html
The wind-turbine components maker
 American Superconductor Corp. (AMSC)  fell the most in two decades after
its largest customer refused to accept a shipment and its stock
was downgraded.  The stock slumped about 42 percent to $14.47 in Nasdaq
Stock Market trading today, the biggest intra-day decline since
it was listed in 1991. It fell as low as $12.54, down about 50
percent. The Devens, Massachusetts-based company said yesterday
that it expected to report a net loss for the fiscal fourth-
quarter after Sinovel Wind Group Co. refused to accept
contracted shipments.  Sinovel may be shifting its business to another supplier,
Jesse Pichel, an equity analyst with Jefferies, said in a
research note today.  “Although it is true that AMSC has the exclusive right to
provide components for its licensees, there is no exclusive use
of their license design,” he said. “An AMSC customer is free
to license designs from another vendor and source components
from elsewhere. Given Sinovel’s sudden action before the start
of its second contract, we cannot discount this possibility.”  “American Superconductor guidance implies inventory
correction could last several quarters and has negative
implications for wind stocks,” Vishal Shah, an analyst with
 Barclays Capital , said in a note to clients today. He left the
stock’s rating unchanged at ‘equal weight/neutral.’’  Downgrades, Contract Rejection  Downgrades of American Superconductor that followed the
statement included Jefferies Group Inc., to “underperform”
from “buy,” and  Raymond James  to “market perform” versus
“strong buy.” RW Baird lowered its price target to $11 from
$22 with a “neutral” rating and Citigroup cut its target from
$25 to $17 while maintaining its “hold” rating.  Sinovel on March 31 declined to accept contracted shipments
of core electrical components and spare parts for 1.5-megawatt
and 3-megawatt wind turbines, American Superconductor said. The
manufacturer said it now expects to report total revenue of less
than $42 million for the quarter that ended March 31. That’s
lower than the $119.2 million median of 13 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. It will result in a net loss, the company said.  The company said too that full-year revenue will be less
than $355 million compared with its previous forecast of $430
million to $440 million.  Full-year earnings are expected to be “well below” the
company’s previous forecasts, the company said.  American Superconductor said Sinovel declined to receive
the components to reduce inventories. The Beijing-based
manufacturer is its largest customer and generated about 70
percent of its revenue in fiscal 2010.  Negotiations are under way to determine when Sinovel will
accept further shipments and when it will pay for previous
shipments, AMSC said. In the interim, the company said it is
taking steps to reduce spending.  The stock had dropped 13 percent this year through
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Randall Hackley in Zurich at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net ;
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  