-- 
Manchester United Tops Chelsea 1-0 in Champions League; Barcelona Wins 5-1

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-04-06T22:38:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/manchester-united-tops-chelsea-1-0-in-champions-league-barcelona-wins-5-1.html
Manchester United  beat Chelsea 1-0
in the opening game of their Champions League soccer
quarterfinal, while bookmakers’ favorite Barcelona routed
Shakhtar Donetsk 5-1.  Wayne Rooney  scored the only goal last night as three-time
champion United won the matchup of English Premier League rivals
at Stamford Bridge in London. The return match in the two-game
series will be in Manchester on April 12.  “It’s still in the balance,” United’s Rio Ferdinand told
U.K. broadcaster ITV. “It’s a good result for us but it’s
nowhere near over. We need to go to Old Trafford, defend well,
stay on our feet and if we don’t concede we go through.”  Andres Iniesta , Dani Alves,  Gerard Pique , Seydou Keita and
 Xavi Hernandez  scored against Shakhtar Donetsk to virtually
assure three-time champion Barcelona of a semifinal place.  “We played really, really well and 5-1 is a great score to
go to Ukraine,” Pique told Sky Sports.  United didn’t concede a goal for the seventh time in nine
Champions League games this season in winning at Stamford Bridge
for the first time since 2002.  “We left ourselves a mountain to climb in Manchester, but
we have to do it,” Chelsea goalkeeper Petr Cech told ITV.
“They had their first chance and scored and we had some but we
didn’t score, and that’s the difference.”  United goalkeeper Edwin van der Sar made early saves
against  Fernando Torres  and Didier Drogba before Rooney, who’s
facing a suspension from  England ’s Football Association for
swearing into a television camera during a league match last
weekend, scored in the 24th minute.  Rooney Scores  Ryan Giggs took Michael Carrick’s cross-field pass on the
left and laid off the ball for Rooney to sidefoot into the net.  “He was important on the counterattack and he was in
tremendous form,” United manager  Alex Ferguson  said of Rooney.
“He’s given us a great chance of reaching the semi.”  Chelsea came close just before halftime as Torres directed
a Drogba pass off the post and Frank Lampard’s follow-up was
cleared off the line by  Patrice Evra .  The Blues had more chances in the second half. Ramires sent
a header wide and Drogba’s overhead kick went past the far post
in the 57th minute.  Cech knocked away a cross from Nani that was heading for
 Javier Hernandez  and Van der Sar saved a Torres header with one
hand with 16 minutes left. Nicolas Anelka’s glancing header went
wide and Van der Sar stopped Lampard’s free kick and Branislav Ivanovic’s low effort.  Penalty Claim Denied  In stoppage time at the end of the game, referee Alberto
Mallenco waved play on as Chelsea players appealed for a penalty
kick after Ramires went down under a challenge by Evra.  “Everybody saw what happened, you can see it clearly on
the telly,” Cech said. “But the most important person didn’t
see it.”  At the Camp Nou, Iniesta opened the scoring after two
minutes and Alves added a second goal in the 34th minute for
Barcelona. Pique scored off a corner kick eight minutes into the
second half before Yaroslav Rakitskiy scored for Shakhtar in the
60th minute.  Barcelona answered a minute later when Keita slammed a shot
into the top corner after taking a pass from Lionel Messi. Luiz Adriano hit the post for Shakhtar in the 81st minute and Xavi
closed out the scoring with four minutes remaining.  Shakhtar hosts the second leg on April 12. Should Barcelona
advance, it will play archrival Real Madrid in the semifinals.
Real beat Tottenham 4-0 two days ago, while Schalke won 5-2 at
defending champion Inter Milan in the other quarterfinal opener.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 