-- 
Andreessen Horowitz Raises $200 Million, Bringing Total to $1.2 Billion

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-04-06T19:53:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/andreessen-horowitz-raises-200-million-bringing-total-to-1-2-billion.html
Andreessen Horowitz, the venture
firm co-founded by Web pioneer  Marc Andreessen , said it raised
an extra $200 million for a fund aimed at growth investments,
bringing the company’s total assets to $1.2 billion.  The extra money will build on investments made by its $650
million Fund II, announced in November, the  Menlo Park ,
California-based firm said today.  “We’re enabling ourselves to write bigger checks for great
companies,” General Partner John O’Farrell said in an
interview. “Growth companies have very large capital needs, and
it’s not unusual for them to be raising rounds of $50, $60 or
even $100 million.”  Started in 2009 by Andreessen and fellow Netscape
Communications Corp. veteran Ben Horowitz, the venture capital
firm has added staff and invested in many of the biggest
startups. The list includes Groupon Inc., Zynga Inc. and Skype
Technologies SA. The firm invests in both early-stage startups,
which may take as little as $50,000, and more established growth
companies, which often raise tens of millions of dollars.  Andreessen Horowitz invested $49 million in Bluetooth
headset maker Jawbone last month. In February, the venture
capitalist led an $18 million investment round in gaming startup
 TinyCo  and participated in a $48 million funding of Internet-
storage company Box.net.  New Partners  The firm also added two technology industry veterans to its
roster in recent weeks. Scott Weiss, the former chief executive
officer of IronPort Systems Inc., became general partner, and
Peter Levine, an alumnus of Veritas Software, was named venture
partner.  The venture industry aims to rebound from a slump that
began before the recession. Venture-capital fundraising declined
last year for the fourth straight year, dropping 25 percent to
$12.3 billion, according to the  National Venture Capital
Association . Funding has tumbled by more than half since 2005 as
a dearth of initial public offerings hurt returns at venture
firms.  The add-on fund will be terminated once the original
investment pool is completely spent, and any remaining money
will be returned to partners.  Bloomberg LP, which owns Bloomberg News, is an investor in
Andreessen Horowitz.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 Dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  