-- 
Asia Exporters Fall on Fed Tightening Concern as China Banks Rise on Rates

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-04-06T10:37:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/asian-stocks-decline-on-concern-federal-reserve-may-withdraw-u-s-stimulus.html
Asian stocks swung between gains and
losses as exporters dropped amid concern the  Federal Reserve 
will withdraw stimulus measures. Chinese lenders and insurers
gained after the nation’s central bank raised  interest rates .  Samsung Electronics Co., which counts  China  and America as
its biggest markets, dropped 2.3 percent in  Seoul .  Tokyo 
Electric Power Co., operator of a nuclear plant crippled by
Japan’s strongest-ever earthquake, sank 6.9 percent on record
volume after Kyodo News said the company may compensate
households near the facility.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China (601398)  Ltd. gained 1.8 percent in  Shanghai  on speculation higher
interest rates will raise net interest margins.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index was little changed at 135.07 as
of 7:37 p.m. in Tokyo after swinging between gains and losses at
least six times. About the same number of stocks advanced and
fell in the index. The Asia-Pacific gauge rose for the past two
weeks as Japanese companies began resuming production after the
nation’s worst earthquake on record last month and as Chinese
firms posted profits that beat analyst estimates.  “America’s been pumping out cash and arguably some of that
money’s been finding its way into other parts of the world,
including Asian share markets,” said  Shane Oliver , head of
investment strategy at AMP Capital Investors Ltd., manages $98
billion in Sydney. “If it brings that easy monetary policy to
an end, and more importantly starts tightening, investors might
worry this might reduce the return potential for Asian equities
and emerging markets generally.”  China Gains  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average dropped 0.3 percent,
while  South Korea ’s Kospi Index lost 0.2 percent. New Zealand’s
NZX 50 Index declined 0.6 percent. China’s Shanghai Composite
gained 1.1 percent after being shut for the last two days, while
 Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index climbed 0.6 percent after a holiday
yesterday.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.3 percent
today. The index closed little changed yesterday as growing
concern that Federal Reserve policy makers will begin removing
stimulus measures offset optimism about takeover deals.  The U.S. policy makers last month differed over whether to
begin removing record stimulus this year as they debated the
path of monetary policy after the completion of their $600
billion bond-purchase program, according to minutes of a Federal
Open Market Committee meeting last month that were released
yesterday. Inflationary pressures amid rising food and oil
prices had forced Asian central banks to tighten monetary policy,
with China raising interest rates four times in the past six
months.  Fed Debates Easing  “The flip side of the recovery in the  U.S. economy  is that
there’s growing awareness that there will be an end to monetary
easing,” said Hiroichi Nishi, an equities manager in Tokyo at
Nikko Cordial Securities Inc.  Samsung Electronics, the world’s second-largest mobile
phone maker, declined 2.3 percent to 923,000 won in Seoul. Honda
Motor Co., Japan’s second-largest carmaker that gets about 44
percent of sales from  North America , fell 1.3 percent to 2,895
yen in Tokyo.  Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , the biggest supplier to Wal-Mart
Stores Inc., dropped 3.2 percent to HK$40.35 in Hong Kong.  A gauge of utility companies posted the biggest decline
among the 10 industry groups in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index. The
sub-indexes were evenly split between those that rose and fell.  Tepco Swings  Tokyo Electric slumped 6.9 percent to 337 yen, declining
for a fourth consecutive day. Shares of Tepco, as Asia’s biggest
utility company is known, briefly made gains in the afternoon,
rising 9.4 percent from a slump of as much as 19 percent. The
company has lost about 84 percent of its market value since the
March 11 earthquake and tsunami damaged its nuclear plant and
has breached its record low since listing in August 1951.  “With the affordability of the stock in the background, it
appears some investors are trying to support the stock,” said
Mitsuyuki Kobayashi, president of Metzler Asset Management
( Japan ) Ltd. “There is no pause in selling as investors worry
they may be held responsible for the accident, or for the
potential losses from damages paid.”  The utility may make a preliminary compensation payment of
1 million yen ($12,000) to each household near its crippled
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant, Kyodo News reported. A record
volume of 303.1 million shares changed hands, the fourth most-
heavily traded in the MSCI Asian gauge following China’s three
biggest banks.  ICBC, Ping An  Among stocks that gained, Chinese lenders and insurers
advanced after the People’s Bank of China yesterday boosted its
benchmark one-year lending rate by a quarter point to 6.31
percent. Barclays Plc and Citigroup Inc. said higher rates will
increase banks’ net interest margins.  Industrial & Commercial Bank, the nation’s No. 1 lender,
climbed 1.8 percent to 4.58 yuan in Shanghai.  China Construction
Bank Corp. (939) , the nation’s second-largest lender, rose 1.6 percent
to 5.09 yuan.  Bank of China Ltd. (601988) , the country’s No. 3 lender,
increased 1.2 percent to 3.41 yuan.  China Life Insurance, the country’s biggest insurer, gained
2.2 percent to 21.79 yuan. Rival Ping An Insurance (Group) Co.
advanced 3.9 percent to 53.23 yuan. Ping An Insurance said last
week it plans to boost fixed-income investments after profit
climbed 25 percent last year as premiums expanded and rising
interest income helped ameliorate the drag on investment returns.  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX) , operator of the city’s securities
exchange, rose as much as 1.6 percent, adding to yesterday’s 4
percent advance. The stock closed little changed at S$8.32.  Credit Suisse Group AG raised its rating on the shares to
“neutral” from “underperform” after Australian Treasurer
Wayne Swan said yesterday he was inclined to reject the
 Singapore  bourse’s proposed bid for ASX Ltd. That acquisition
would have reduced SGX’s return on equity, the brokerage said.  The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index lost 1.9 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with gains of 6 percent by the S&P
500 and 1.9 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks in the
Asian benchmark are valued at 13.1 times estimated earnings on
average, compared with 13.7 times for the S&P 500 and 11.3 times
for the Stoxx 600.  To contact the reporters on this story:
To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .;
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net  