-- 
AstraZeneca Wins U.S. FDA Approval of Thyroid-Cancer Drug

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n   a n d   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 
2011-04-06T20:23:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/astrazeneca-wins-u-s-fda-approval-of-thyroid-cancer-drug-1-.html
AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  won U.S. approval to
sell a new treatment for advanced cases of a thyroid cancer that
strikes about 2,000 Americans a year.  The  Food and Drug Administration  cleared vandetanib as a
treatment for medullary thyroid cancer, the agency said today in
a statement. The drug doesn’t have a trade name yet, the agency
said.  The benefits of treating patients with few options outweigh
the risk of side effects such as diarrhea, rash, nausea,
hypertension and headache, an FDA advisory panel recommended in
December. The agency had delayed a decision by three months to
review a proposal by London-based AstraZeneca to minimize the
drug’s potential risks.  “Vandetanib’s approval underscores FDA’s commitment to
approving treatments for patients with rare and difficult-to-
treat diseases,” Richard Pazdur, director of the Office of
Oncology Drug Products in the FDA’s Center for Drug Evaluation
and Research, said in the statement.  Patients with advanced, inoperable  medullary thyroid tumors 
have about a 40 percent chance of living five years, according
to AstraZeneca. The company reported in June that once-daily
dosing of vandetanib helped patients live 54 percent longer than
those on a placebo in a 331-person study. More than half of the
patients suffered from side effects.  Seeking Products  AstraZeneca needs new products to replace about $10
billion, or 31 percent of revenue, that may be lost by 2015 as
patents expire on the heartburn pill Nexium and the
antipsychotic Seroquel.  Vandetanib was estimated to garner $1 billion in sales in
lung cancer for the drugmaker until it failed to meet the main
goal of two studies. AstraZeneca withdrew marketing applications
for  lung cancer  in the U.S. and  Europe  in 2009 and has since
discontinued development for the disease.  The drug is projected to bring in $82 million in sales in
2015, according to the average estimate of six analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg. It also is being studied for the treatment of
other tumor types.  AstraZeneca gained 21 pence, or less than 1 percent, to
2,927.5 pence at the close of trading in  London .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catherine Larkin in Washington at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 