-- 
AT&T, Verizon Warn FCC of Possible Static From Signal Boosters

-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 
2011-04-06T20:56:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/at-t-verizon-warn-fcc-of-possible-static-from-signal-boosters.html
U.S. regulators moved toward
approving wider use of boosters for mobile-telephone signals,
devices that wireless companies led by  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Verizon
Wireless  say may cause interference if not properly deployed.  The U.S. Federal Communications Commission today  said  it
wants to broaden the availability and use of signal boosters to
enhance wireless coverage for consumers, particularly in rural
and underserved areas. The agency asked for comments on rules to
ensure that boosters do not adversely affect wireless networks.  “We applaud the commission for moving forward on a
consumer-friendly issue,” Harold Feld, legal director for
 Public Knowledge , a Washington-based advocacy group, said in an
e-mail. “Signal boosters in the home, when designed to avoid
interference, will contribute to improving wireless coverage.”  CTIA-the Wireless Association, with members including AT&T,
Verizon and  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , is “concerned that poorly
manufactured or improperly installed boosters can do much more
harm than good,” Brian Josef, an assistant vice president, said
in an e-mail. “The record is full of examples of such harm.”  Boosters “can cause massive interference,” Jeanine
Poltronieri, an AT&T assistant vice president, said in a blog
posting today. The company is “hopeful” the FCC will “provide
some clarity to the rules of the road.”  The only way to halt booster interference now is to ask the
FCC to cite the offender, Poltronieri wrote. “There must be a
way to take action against manufacturers who distribute devices
that cause interference,” she wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Todd Shields  in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  