-- 
Athletics Legacy Isn't in Danger After London 2012, Olympic Park Says

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-04-06T15:32:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/athletics-legacy-isn-t-in-danger-after-london-2012-olympic-park-says.html
The  Olympic Park Legacy Company 
rejected claims made by a former gold medalist that there won’t
be a future for athletics in  London ’s Olympic Stadium after the
 2012 Summer Games .  Tessa Sanderson , the javelin champion at the 1984 Los
Angeles Olympics, told the  British Broadcasting Corp.  yesterday
she was concerned because soccer team West Ham United was
selected as the facility’s post-Games tenant. London’s bid
centered around an athletics legacy.  “She’s 100 percent wrong,” Olympic Park Legacy Company
chairwoman Margaret Ford said in an interview at the Sport
Accord conference of sports organizations in London. “This is a
150-year lease, and built into that will be that the running
track will be preserved and the athletics legacy will be
preserved for the duration of the lease.”  Sanderson resigned from the OPLC’s board last month to
concentrate on working with her sports foundation in London.  The OPLC in February recommended the east London-based
Premier League team and the borough of Newham over a joint bid
by Tottenham Hotspur and AEG, a U.S.-based entertainment
facility operator. They were the only bidders to operate the
stadium after next year’s  Olympic Games , which start July 27.  The recommendation, made unanimously by the OPLC board, has
been approved by London Mayor  Boris Johnson  and the U.K.
government. Tottenham is considering legal action against the
OPLC’s decision.  When London won the bid to hold the Olympic Games in 2005,
organizers promised to retain an athletics track inside the
stadium.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net ;
 Tariq Panja  in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  