-- 
Australian February Home-Loan Approvals Decline For Second Month on Floods

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-04-06T04:16:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/australian-february-home-loan-approvals-decline-for-second-month-on-floods.html
Australian home-loan approvals
declined for a second month in February as floods and a cyclone
disrupted the housing market on the nation’s east coast.  The number of loans granted to build or buy houses and
apartments dropped 5.6 percent from January, when they fell a
revised 6.3 percent, the statistics bureau said in Sydney today.
That compares with the median estimate for approvals to slip 2
percent in a Bloomberg News survey of 21 economists.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens held the
benchmark interest rate at 4.75 percent for a fourth meeting
yesterday after seven increases from October 2009 to November
last year. Tropical Cyclone Yasi in February tore through sugar-
and banana-producing areas, following two months of rains in
Queensland that killed 36 people, shut mines and wiped out
crops, while the southern state of Victoria was also hit.  “Disruptions from the January floods and a delayed
reaction to the November interest-rate rise were key negatives
early in 2011,” Westpac Banking Corp. economists led by  Bill Evans  wrote in a report after the data. “This result reinforces
the likelihood of the RBA remaining on hold for now.”  The Australian dollar was little changed following the
report, trading at $1.0372 at 2:12 p.m. in Sydney from $1.0339
just before the release.  State Breakdown  A state breakdown showed New South  Wales  declined 10.1
percent and Victoria was down 4.6 percent, while Queensland
failed to rebound from the 15.7 percent drop in January, falling
0.5 percent in February.  The statistics bureau said today the “specific impact” of
the floods couldn’t be quantified.  The total value of loans declined 4 percent to A$19.3
billion ($20 billion) in February, today’s report showed.  The value of lending to owner-occupiers dropped 4.8
percent, the report showed. The value of loans to investors who
plan to rent or resell homes declined 2.3 percent.  First-time home buyers accounted for 14.9 percent of
dwellings that were financed in February, down from 15.2 percent
in January and lower than 18.6 percent a year earlier, the
report showed today.  Australian  house prices  unexpectedly rose in the three
months through December, a government report showed in February.  An index measuring the weighted average of prices for
established houses in eight major cities climbed 0.7 percent
last quarter from the previous three months, the  Australian
Bureau of Statistics  said Feb. 1. They gained 5.8 percent from a
year earlier.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  