-- 
AvalonBay Gets Six Apartment Properties in $263 Million Exchange With UDR

-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 
2011-04-06T13:17:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/avalonbay-gets-six-apartment-properties-in-263-million-exchange-with-udr.html
AvalonBay Communities Inc. (AVB) , the
second-largest publicly traded U.S. apartment owner, exchanged
three complexes and a land parcel for six  UDR Inc. (UDR)  properties
and $26 million in cash.  The deal is valued at $263 million for AvalonBay, according
to a statement today from the Arlington, Virginia-based company.
The apartments it is acquiring are in southern California. UDR
of Highlands Ranch, Colorado, will get two properties and land
in the  Boston  area and a building in San Francisco, for an
exchange value of $237 million.  “We are reallocating capital from markets where we have a
large portfolio of higher price-point assets into a currently
under-allocated region with assets that offer multiple price
points,” Bryce Blair, chairman and chief executive officer of
AvalonBay, said in the statement. “We are exchanging assets in
Boston and  San Francisco , where we have robust development
pipelines, into southern California at a time when the region’s
fundamentals are in the early stage of a recovery.”  Demand for apartments in the U.S. is rising as the economy
grows and the homeownership rate slumps. Sales of multifamily
buildings climbed 96 percent to $33.7 billion in 2010 from a
year earlier, according to Real Capital Analytics Inc., a
commercial-property research firm in  New York .  Apartment vacancies dropped to 6.2 percent in the first
quarter, the lowest in almost three years, property-research
firm Reis Inc. said today. Effective rents increased in
75 of the 82 markets tracked by the New York-based company.  The deal will “modestly” add to funds from operations in
2011 excluding transactions costs, AvalonBay said. FFO is a
cash-flow measure used by real estate investment trusts and
excludes depreciation and other items and doesn’t conform to
generally accepted accounting principles.  UDR said the transaction doesn’t change its 2011 guidance.
The company is the third-largest publicly traded U.S. apartment
owner.  Equity Residential (EQR) , based in Chicago, is the biggest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  