-- 
Lawmakers Urged to Separate Budget Debate From Tax Code Overhaul

-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-04-06T16:11:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/lawmakers-urged-to-separate-budget-debate-from-tax-code-overhaul.html
A rewrite of the nation’s tax laws
should be considered separately from the budget debate
dominating Capitol Hill, the leaders of the last major tax code
overhaul told the chief tax-writers in  U.S. Congress .  The comments today from Richard Gephardt, the former House
Democratic leader, and  James Baker , a chief of staff and
Treasury secretary to President Ronald Reagan, followed House
Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan’s release yesterday of a
2012 budget proposal with deep cuts in spending and revenue. The
Ryan budget would cut the top individual and corporate tax rates
from 35 percent to 25 percent.  Appearing before the congressional Joint Committee on
Taxation, Baker said mixing the two debates could politicize and
threaten a new tax-code overhaul.  “If  tax reform  gets caught up in that, you won’t have tax
reform,” Baker told the panel.  Michigan Representative Sander Levin, the top Democrat on
the House Ways and Means Committee, said Ryan’s proposal would
eliminate deductions used by millions of Americans.  “It almost certainly would be necessary to eliminate major
provisions that helped build the broad middle class of this
country such as the mortgage interest deduction and the
employer-provided health-care exclusion,” Levin said.  Revenue-Neutral  Gephardt also urged lawmakers to avoid sensitive topics
that could hamper efforts to rewrite the  tax code . He said
lawmakers should try to make an overhaul revenue-neutral,
meaning that any rewrite would not increase the deficit, and
avoid debate over how tax benefits are distributed across income
brackets.  “You’ve got to be neutral on both of those topics,” he
said. “Leave it where it is.”  Gephardt and Baker were instrumental in advancing the last
major tax overhaul in 1986. They returned to Capitol Hill today
to share advice with lawmakers considering another possible tax-
code rewrite.  The former officials told lawmakers they should consider
allowing multinational companies to return their overseas
profits to the U.S. at a lower rate. They didn’t say how low the
tax rate for repatriated funds should be.  Companies including  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Duke
Energy Corp. (DUK)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  are pressing Congress to consider
another so-called overseas tax holiday.  “It’s something you’ve got to look at,” Gephardt said.
“When I hear there’s $1.5 trillion offshore, half of which
could come back, that excites me.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  