-- 
Bahrain, Oman Economic Growth Forecasts Cut at Barclays Capital

-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-04-06T13:05:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/bahrain-oman-economic-growth-forecasts-cut-at-barclays-capital.html
Bahrain ’s and  Oman ’s economies will
grow less than previously forecast this year as uprisings in the
two Persian Gulf states take a toll on industries such as
financial services and tourism.  Bahrain’s real gross domestic product will expand 1.4
percent, down from a previous forecast of 4.3 percent, Barclay’s
Capital senior economist Alia Moubayed said in an e-mailed
report today. Oman’s economic growth was downgraded to 4.5
percent from 5.2 percent, the report said.  The forecast bears a “risk to the downside should the
situation in Bahrain deteriorate further,” the report said. In
countries where “severe unrest occurred, primarily in Bahrain
and to a lesser extent in Oman, non-hydrocarbon growth is likely
to slow despite the expected increase in  government spending  and
support from neighboring GCC states.”  Protesters in Oman and Bahrain are demanding free elections
and more housing and jobs, echoing uprisings that have swept the
region this year and unseated rulers in Tunisia and  Egypt . At
least two people have died in clashes between demonstrators and
security forces in Oman, while seven people have been killed in
Bahrain.  The unrest sent the Bloomberg GCC 200 Index of Gulf shares
down 2.8 percent this year, while  oil prices  rose almost 19
percent. The six countries of the Gulf Cooperation Council,
which include Bahrain and Oman, are home to 20 percent of the
world’s oil supply.  The GCC states said March 10 that they would provide Oman
and Bahrain with $10 billion each over a decade for the
development of infrastructure and housing.  The aid package “is likely to put a floor to any potential
deterioration in Bahrain’s outlook and bridge any imminent
financing needs that may arise,” the report said.  To contact the reporter responsible for the story:
Vivian Salama in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 