-- 
Bank of Ireland, Allied Irish Halt Deposit Exodus, Noonan Says

-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-04-06T12:08:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/bank-of-ireland-allied-irish-halt-deposit-exodus-noonan-says.html
Bank of Ireland Plc and  Allied Irish
Banks Plc (ALBK) , Ireland’s two biggest banks, saw their deposits
rebound “significantly” after the government’s stress tests
last week, Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said.  The Irish government last week ordered the two lenders, or
pillar banks, to raise as much as 18.5 billion euros ($26
billion) between them following stress tests on the nation’s
lenders. Private-sector deposits shrank 9.8 percent in February
from the year earlier, the Irish central bank said in March.  “The total amount of deposits withdrawn from the pillar
banks has been very significantly reduced,” Noonan told
legislators in Dublin today. “Since Thursday’s announcements,
the net deposit position of the pillar banks has improved
significantly.”  Irish lenders are relying on emergency funding from the
 European Central Bank  after clients pulled money from their
accounts and investors shun bank debt. The Irish central bank
last week  ordered  four of the country’s lenders to raise 24
billion euros to bolster confidence in the financial system.  Bank of Ireland will have to raise 5.2 billion euros and
Allied Irish 13.3 billion euros. EBS Building Society, which is
being folded into Allied Irish, requires 1.5 billion euros, and
Irish Life & Permanent Plc 4 billion euros.  The fundraising timetable will be discussed in the next ten
days, Ireland’s financial regulator Matthew Elderfield said at a
Reuters conference in London today.  Senior Bondholders  Anglo Irish Bank Corp., the first lender nationalized, may
not require any more capital, Elderfield said today. The lender
has received 29.3 billion euros of state aid so far.  “There is no immediate prospect of that number changing,”
Elderfield said at the conference.  The government will only seek to shares losses with Anglo’s
senior bondholders if more capital is needed, Elderfield said.
He ruled out forcing losses on Bank of Ireland, Allied Irish,
EBS and Irish Life’s senior bondholders.  “They represent the basis of the restructured banking
system for the future,” he said. “ There has been considerable
debate about this point, but the markets now have certainty
about government policy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Tokyo at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  