-- 
Banks Gain Edge in Talks on Foreclosure Penalties as Fed, Agencies Settle

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-04-06T19:08:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/banks-get-edge-in-talks-on-foreclosure-penalties-as-feds-settle.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC)  and fellow mortgage servicers are more likely to dodge a
threatened $20 billion in penalties for faulty foreclosures
after U.S. agencies cut ahead of the states by signing deals
without fines.  A task force of 50 state attorneys general already was
arguing internally over proposed sanctions when people familiar
with the talks said the  Federal Reserve , Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency, Office of Thrift Supervision and
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. began making the deals. While
the U.S. watchdogs may yet seek fines, the pacts ease pressure
on the banks and erode states’ leverage, said Gilbert Schwartz,
a former Fed attorney.  “This puts the attorneys general in an uncomfortable
position,” because it reduces the list of outstanding demands
and helps firms show progress in fixing lapses, said Schwartz, a
partner at law firm Schwartz & Ballen LLP in Washington who is
not involved in negotiations. “By settling with the banking
agencies, it sets the upper limit on what the banks would be
willing to do. This seems to have drawn a line in the sand.”  The first of as many as 14 mortgage servicers signed
accords this week agreeing to improve internal controls,
communications with borrowers and other processes, said two
people familiar with the matter. They are the first sanctions to
arise from last year’s probe into so-called robo-signing, in
which mortgage firms and their contractors vouched for thousands
of foreclosure documents without verifying their accuracy.  Financial Penalties  The U.S. agreements proceeded without the backing of the
 attorneys general , led by Iowa’s Thomas J. Miller, who undertook
a joint probe last year and have sought to change servicers’
behavior and extract financial penalties. In early March, the
group circulated a 27-page settlement “term sheet” outlining
future rules on mortgage servicing and conditions for possible
mortgage modifications.  Miller, in an April 4 statement, said he’s “disappointed”
to see reports that some U.S. watchdogs may pursue their own
accords. Miller said he had hoped the agencies would cooperate
because “to work closely with all of us would protect the
public interest to the fullest.”  Geoff Greenwood, a spokesman for Miller, said yesterday
that the actions of U.S. regulators won’t affect the efforts of
the attorneys general.  “We see any settlement they may reach as a floor, not a
ceiling,” Greenwood said. “We still don’t know what their
agreement would say because we haven’t been notified.”  $20 Billion  The attorneys general previously suggested a $20 billion
penalty as part of any deal, a figure cited by  Elizabeth Warren ’s Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which said in a
Feb. 14 presentation that banks had saved more than that amount
by cutting corners during foreclosures. A $5 billion penalty
would be “too low,” and banks can afford more, the agency
wrote in the document.  Lenders countered with a March 28 draft proposal that
didn’t include principal reductions or fines, and after a March
30 meeting with servicers, state officials and federal agencies,
Miller said there’s “a long way to go” to reach an agreement.  Spokesmen for the FDIC, Fed, OCC and OTS declined to
comment, as did representatives of San Francisco-based Wells
Fargo and Bank of America, based in Charlotte,  North Carolina .  Writing down principal and imposing fines has been “more
of a sticking point with the AGs, and it’s going to be more
difficult to come to a resolution with that constituency than it
would be with the banking regulators,” said  Jason Goldberg , an
analyst with  Barclays Capital  in New York.  Short Sales  The states and the Obama administration are trying to help
the almost 25 percent of U.S. mortgage holders who are
underwater, meaning the debt is more than the home is worth.
Banks have been reluctant to write down principal, and so-called
short sales, where a home is sold for less than the loan
balance, have lagged home seizures as a lengthy consent process
by loan holders deters potential buyers.  Foreclosure filings reached a record 2.9 million in 2010,
according to RealtyTrac Inc., an Irvine, California-based data
company. After a rebound in the second half of last year, home
sales have resumed their decline as foreclosures expand the
inventory of unsold properties and push values lower.  ‘Good Outcome’  “There appears to be a divergence between the federal
agencies and the state attorneys general as to what they
consider to be a good outcome,” said Patrick McManemin, a
Dallas-based partner at  Patton Boggs LLP , a law firm that
represents banks, loan servicers and financial institutions.  There’s also a split among the states, with the attorneys
general of Oklahoma, Nebraska,  Alabama ,  Virginia ,  Texas ,  Florida 
and  South Carolina  writing letters to Miller last month voicing
their displeasure. Republican lawmakers complained about the
proposed settlement and questioned whether the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau has authority to take part in the
talks.  “In that initial draft it really did seem like the state
AGs were overstepping,” said Stephen F.J. Ornstein, a
 Washington  partner of the law firm SNR Denton LLP. The scope of
the original proposal may have delayed any settlement the AGs
could have reached, he said.  Acting Comptroller of the Currency John Walsh said in
February that the OCC and other U.S. bank regulators were “in
the process of finalizing actions” to impose “remedial
requirements and sanctions” on mortgage servicers. The OCC sent
cease-and-desist orders to servicers that month, according to a
person familiar with the matter.  Imposing Penalties  This week’s agreements don’t prevent federal regulators
from imposing financial penalties later, and are simply an
effort to give near-term relief to borrowers trying to work out
loan modifications or avoid foreclosures, said one person
familiar with the process.  Virginia’s Attorney General, Kenneth T. Cuccinelli, favors
regulators reaching separate settlements on federal matters,
while the states focus on issues within their purview, according
to spokesman Brian Gottstein.  “We do not have to wait for some joint federal-state
settlement,” Gottstein said in an e-mail. “The quicker all
this gets resolved, the better for consumers and the economy.”  Regulators continue to be part of negotiations with
attorneys general, the  Justice Department  and banks, and are
expected to be a party to any global settlement if one is
reached, said three people with knowledge of the process who did
not want to be named because the negotiations aren’t public.  Issues in ‘Play’  “Issues such as principal reduction, treatment of second
mortgages, state and federal fines all continue to be in play,”
McManemin said.  Banks likely will try to use the agreements with regulators
as leverage to undermine the efforts by state attorneys general
to reach a universal settlement, Alan White, a law professor at
Valparaiso University in  Indiana , said in a telephone interview.  The banks might argue that any state investigation is
preempted by the actions of their federal banking regulator, and
may be backed in that claim by the OCC, which has taken a “very
aggressive” position in the past arguing that federal banking
laws preempt state laws, White said.  This settlement “is turf protection, but it’s also a way
of supplanting the attorneys general as the people’s
representative who can speak and act,” said Ellen Marshall, a
partner at Manatt, Phelps & Phillips LLP in Costa Mesa,
 California . Regulators “have the sweep of the whole nation and
so they can reach an agreement.”  One interpretation of the financial penalties imposed by
the attorneys general was that it would “undermine safety and
soundness at a critical time” for the banks, Ornstein said.  Capital Levels  That was countered by Brian Foran, an analyst with Nomura
Holdings Inc. in  New York , who said any principal reductions
wouldn’t have a large impact on banks’ capital levels since
profits over the next two quarters would likely offset any hit.
The CFPB presentation showed that a penalty based on the
billions of dollars in servicing costs avoided by the banks
would reduce Tier 1 capital by 47 basis points at Wells Fargo
and 30 basis points for Bank of America. A basis point is one
one-hundredth of a percentage point.  “The problem is that a lot of the rhetoric is ‘The banks
can afford this, therefore it must be fine to do,’” Foran said
in a phone interview. “People would become very worried about
what’s next, the banks will probably continue to tighten their
mortgage underwriting standards, which is counterproductive, and
it leads down a slippery slope.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 