-- 
Barclays Sees Threefold Jump in Offshore Yuan-Products Trading

-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-04-06T04:46:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/barclays-sees-threefold-jump-in-offshore-yuan-products-trading.html
Trading volume in yuan-denominated
products outside  China  will jump three-fold this year, driven by
expectations the renminbi will strengthen, according to  Barclays
Capital .  Average daily volume of offshore yuan products may reach
$1.5 billion by the end of 2011 from $500 million at the end of
last year, according to Patrick Law, the Hong Kong-based head of
emerging-market rates trading for Greater China at the bank.
Turnover averaged $800 million last month, he estimated in an e-
mail to Bloomberg News yesterday.  The renminbi will strengthen 3.9 percent against the dollar
by year-end, according to a Bloomberg survey. Appetite for yuan-
denominated assets has increased in Hong Kong, where  bank
deposits  in the currency have quadrupled to a record 408 billion
yuan ($62.3 billion) since June. Such deposits earn an annual
rate of 0.629 percent at Bank of China  Hong Kong  Ltd., while
yuan bonds in Hong Kong yield 1.935 percent on average,
according to data compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc.  The yuan rose 0.05 percent to 6.5447 as of 12:15 p.m. in
 Shanghai , according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.
It reached 6.5443 earlier, the strongest level since the country
unified official and market exchange rates at the end of 1993.  Barclays expanded its foreign exchange trading capability
this week, enabling its clients to trade yuan-deliverable spot,
forwards and swaps against Asian and Group of 10 nations’
currencies on its platform, it said in a statement. It will also
offer secondary trading of dim sum bonds.  The U.K.’s third-largest lender expects the pool of
liquidity generated by the bank to drive efficiency and help
develop the offshore renminbi markets, Jim Iorio, head of
foreign-exchange distribution for Asia Pacific, said in the
statement.  Sales of so-called dim sum bonds totaled 18.2 billion yuan
in the first quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That compared with 25 billion yuan in the fourth quarter of last
year and 10.7 billion yuan in the third quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in  Singapore  at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 