-- 
Basci May Change Turkish Rates Policy When Erdogan Picks Next Bank Chief

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t   a n d   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-04-07T08:23:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/basci-may-change-rates-policy-when-erdogan-picks-next-governor.html
Erdem Basci, the frontrunner to take
over as  Turkey ’s central bank chief this month, may be forced to
start reversing a cheap-money policy he helped devise, with
inflation set to accelerate from a four-decade low.  Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  will nominate Basci,
currently a deputy to Governor Durmus Yilmaz, for the top job at
the Ankara-based bank when Yilmaz’s five-year term expires April
18, according to 14 of 19 economists surveyed this week by
Bloomberg News.  Rising oil prices mean the next governor may need to
increase  interest rates  to pare inflation that the central bank
says will overshoot this year’s target of 5.5 percent. The bank
has cut interest rates by 75 basis points since December to help
slow capital inflows, while increasing  reserve requirements  to
cap growth in loans.  Yilmaz’s replacement will inherit a monetary policy that’s
“unorthodox,” Michael Gomez, Munich-based co-head of emerging
markets at Pacific Investment Management Co., manager of the
world’s biggest bond fund, said in a telephone interview last
week. The risk is the bank may be “forced into an episode akin
to what happened in 2006” when it added 4.25 percentage points
to rates in two months as inflation accelerated, he said.  Treasury Undersecretary Ibrahim Canakci, Ibrahim Turhan, a
colleague of Basci’s at the central bank in Ankara, and chief
bank regulator Tevfik Bilgin also were cited as candidates in
the survey. The next governor won’t be announced until Yilmaz’s
term expires, Deputy Prime Minister  Ali Babacan  said yesterday.  ‘Many Durmus Yilmazes’  “There are many people who would be as successful” as
Yilmaz, Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc said in an interview
in  Washington . “We have many Durmus Yilmazes in Turkey. But
possibly, of course, one of his deputies will take the lead.”  Basci , 44, was the official whose paper, published on the
central bank’s website on Dec. 11, flagged the latest monetary
policy of low rates and higher reserve requirements, surprising
investors and prompting a decline in bonds as banks sold assets
to meet the extra commitments. The central bank reaffirmed its
adherence to the policy in a March 23  statement , adding that new
data or information may lead to revisions.  Basci was a student at a private high school in Ankara at
the same time as Babacan, who is in charge of the Treasury and
the government’s economic policy. Basci acted as Babacan’s
adviser in 2003 before he was appointed to the bank. He served
as acting governor for a month in 2006.  Basci declined to say whether he will be a candidate to
replace Yilmaz during a March 29 interview in Prague. The bank’s
main tasks this year will be to narrow the current-account gap
and pare loan growth, he said.  Credibility  Basci “is well-regarded and people see him as a developer
of many policies in recent years, so he has a role in the
credibility the bank has accumulated,”  Yarkin Cebeci , an
Istanbul-based economist for JPMorgan Chase & Co., said in a
phone interview yesterday. “At some point, the bank will have
to return to traditional methods and start hiking rates. Any
delay to reacting to a probably increase in inflation could hurt
credibility.”  The prospect of rate increases mean the lira is forecast to
gain 6.3 percent by the end of the year, the most among major
emerging markets, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The lira fell to 1.619 per dollar on March 3, the lowest in
almost two years, as the bank kept rates at a record low to stem
capital inflows. Policy makers are expected to raise the key
lending rate by 75 basis points to 7 percent by the end of the
year, the median estimate of seven banks showed.  Lira Appreciation  “The lira’s appreciation may be more marked in the second
half,” Erkin Isik, a strategist at Turk Ekonomi Bankasi in
Istanbul, said by telephone. The currency was little changed at
1.516 per dollar at 11:10 a.m. in Istanbul.  Inflation slowed to a 40-year low of 4 percent last month
and will now accelerate as rising global commodity prices feed
into the domestic economy, the central bank said on April 5.
Gross domestic product expanded 8.9 percent last year, a pace
Basci called “very rapid”. Restraining credit growth is the
bank’s priority, he said on March 29.  In his policy  document  posted on the bank’s website in
December, Basci explained why that goal was better achieved by
higher reserve requirements than by interest rate increases.  Excess Liquidity  He said that Turkey should keep rates low in order to deter
destabilizing short-term inflows of excess liquidity issued by
the U.S. Federal Reserve and the  European Central Bank . The
“hot money” may create asset bubbles, pump up growth and widen
the current account to “levels that threaten financial
stability,” Basci wrote.  Basci was Erdogan’s preferred candidate for central bank
chief ahead of Yilmaz five years ago, though his nomination was
rejected by then-President Ahmet Necdet Sezer, according to news
reports at the time. Basci’s wife, like Yilmaz’s, wears an
Islamic-style headscarf that upholders of Turkey’s secular
constitution, such as Sezer, see as a symbol of Erdogan’s
efforts to allow a wider role for religion. Sezer also blocked
the candidacy of Adnan Buyukdeniz, an Islamic banker.  Abdullah Gul , a political ally of Erdogan, replaced Sezer in 2007.  Two economists predicted that Yilmaz will be succeeded by
Canakci, who has helped Turkey complete two International
Monetary Fund programs since taking over at the Treasury in
2003.  Another two economists backed  Turhan , who has been on the
monetary policy committee since 2006. Prior to joining the bank
in 2004, Turhan worked as editor at Anlayis magazine, writing
articles urging authorities not to let the markets determine
policy. And one opted for Bilgin, who has overseen a banking
industry that survived the global crisis without a bailout.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net ;
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  