-- 
Basel Develops Method to Identify Banks Posing Systemic Risk

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-04-06T13:07:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/basel-develops-method-to-identify-banks-posing-systemic-risk.html
International regulators have agreed
on a way to identify the banks that must hold extra capital
reserves to avoid collapses that would undermine global
financial stability.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  has “developed
a methodology that embodies the key components of systemic
importance,” Stefan Walter, the group’s secretary general, said
in comments prepared for a speech in Basel today. This would
allow a “differentiated treatment” of banks “without needing
to specify a fixed list.”  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann 
last month criticized efforts to force the world’s biggest
lenders to hold extra reserves. The Group of 20 nations has
called for capital surcharges for lenders whose failure would
imperil the wider financial system.  “There is still a lot of confusion in the market, and I
have a sense that regulators are still working on the details of
this,” said Patricia Jackson, head of prudential advisory at
Ernst & Young LLP in  London , adding that authorities have
“different views” on the requirements.  Global regulators don’t yet have a list of such banks,
Financial Stability Board Chairman  Mario Draghi  said after the
board’s meeting in  Rome  yesterday. The FSB, which asked the
Basel committee to draft the capital-surcharge rules, said it
will follow an “accelerated timetable” toward agreeing on the
measures by a meeting of G-20 leaders in November.  Global ‘Complexity’  The Basel group’s parameters for measuring the lenders
“are size, interconnectedness, substitutability, global
activity and complexity,” Walter said.  Listing banks eligible for the surcharge would be based on
“spurious criteria, which, in turn, will create incentives to
manipulate such lists for political reasons,” Ackermann said
last month.  The Basel committee is “continuing” to study whether so-
called CoCo bonds, and other contingent capital instruments,
could form part of a capital surcharge for too-big-to-fail
banks, Walter said.  Common equity, which includes mainly a banks’ ordinary
stock and retained earnings, is “the key” to enable systemic
banks to “absorb losses with certainty, thus reducing the
probability of failure,” he said.  Bondholder Losses  Regulators are also reviewing the role that bondholder
losses could play in helping to absorb losses at banks on the
brink of collapse.  Walter said the Basel committee will also “monitor” so-
called so-called shadow banks such as  hedge funds , money market
mutual funds and certain securitization structures, to stop them
escaping efforts to prevent another financial crisis.  “Shadow banking was a key mechanism through which the
crisis was propagated,” Walter said. His comments follow the
FSB’s promise yesterday to “develop recommendations” on shadow
banking rules by November.  Authorities have warned that shadow banks could be used to
evade attempts by regulators to clamp down on excessive risk
taking in the wake of the crisis. The shadow-banking system had
liabilities of about $16 trillion in the first quarter of 2010,
the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  said in a  report  last year.  The Basel committee brings together authorities from 27-
countries including the U.K., U.S. and  China , to set regulatory
standards for lenders.  The FSB was founded in 2009. It replaced the  Financial
Stability Forum , a think tank with no formal role that was
created in 1999 after the Asian financial crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Chapman at 
 pchapman10@bloomberg.net  