-- 
BASF Plans to Fill Middle East Gaps With Polyurethane Expansion

-- B y   T a m a r a   W a l i d
-- 
2011-04-06T13:37:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/basf-plans-to-fill-middle-east-gaps-with-polyurethane-expansion.html
     April 6 (Bloomberg) ---  BASF SE (BAS)  is looking to buy or build
polyurethane facilities in the Middle East to tap demand in the
construction industry for insulation foams.  Talks are underway with two potential partners for
projects, Uwe Hartwig, who oversees BASF’s polyurethane
operations, said in an interview in Dubai, where the
Ludwigshafen, Germany-based company opened a site today.  BASF has so far avoided large-scale investment in the
Middle East in contrast to the large-scale integrated chemical
complexes it’s built in  North America ,  Europe  and  Asia . The
region is dominated by local petrochemical companies, including
state-owned Saudi Basic Industries Corp., which has cheap access
to feedstocks like toluene and benzene.  “We are observing the other countries and other markets in
the region for similar facilities,” said Hartwig. “We are
looking at one acquisition at the moment in the region.” He
declined to give details.  The new plant in Dubai, one of seven sheikdoms comprising
the  United Arab Emirates , is one of 38 such sites worldwide.
BASF, which operates in the UAE through a venture with the Kanoo
Group, one of the region’s largest family businesses, will use
the facility to serve local customers as well as those in  Saudi
Arabia  and Qatar.  Located in Dubai Industrial City, the project could pave
the way for similar investments in the Middle East, Hartwig
said. Polyurethane is used for high-resilience flexible foams,
insulation panels, safety shoes, and mattresses. BASF has no
present plans to develop larger facilities or produce the MDI
and TDI types of polyurethane products there, Hartwig added.  Housing,  World Cup   Saudi Arabia and Qatar are two potential growth areas,
given an uptake in the  construction industry , said Joerg
Schneider, general manager of the Arabian Peninsula at BASF, in
an interview at the new facility.  “Growth prospects in Saudi Arabia are quite high
especially with the recent announcements from the government
about housing,” said Schneider.  Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest oil supplier is
increasing spending on housing amid popular uprisings in the
Arab world.  King Abdullah  recently announced a 40 billion-riyal
($10.7 billion) increase in housing spending.  Qatar, which is hosting the 2022 soccer World Cup, is
building a new city in time for the event and plans to award
about $3 billion worth of contracts for roads and infrastructure
over the next year, Essa Mohammed Ali Kaldari, chief executive
officer of Lusail Real Estate Development Co., said on Feb. 28.  “Qatar is an important place for us,” said Schneider.
“It has certain growth expectations because of the world soccer
championship. There will be a lot of demand in infrastructure;
district cooling and special products will go into flooring.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tamara Walid in Dubai at 
 twalid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  