-- 
Benin's President Thomas Boni Yayi Sworn in and Pledges Ponzi Compensation

-- B y   S e r g e - D a v i d   Z o u e m e
-- 
2011-04-06T14:43:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/benin-s-president-thomas-boni-yayi-sworn-in-for-his-second-term-in-office.html
Benin ’s president, Thomas Boni Yayi,
was sworn in for a second term in office today, pledging to aid
repayment of investors who lost money in a Ponzi scheme and
boost farming for economic growth in the  West African nation .  Boni Yayi took the oath of office in Porto Novo, Benin’s
political capital, from Robert Dossou, the head of the West
African nation’s Constitutional Court. The ceremony was
boycotted by several opposition candidates of the March 13
election, including Adrien Houngbedji, who finished second in
the poll and refused to recognize Boni Yayi’s win.  “I invite all candidates and people to join me in improving
the economy,” the 58-year-old said in a speech at Charles de
Gaulle stadium in the city, where he arrived by helicopter. Boni
Yayi plans create a prime ministerial post to “coordinate
reforms” and accelerate development, he said.  The election, delayed twice over problems with registration
of voters, gave Boni Yayi a win in the first round and sparked
protests by supporters of Houngbedji, even as the regional
Economic Community of West African States declared it “peaceful,
fair and transparent.”  Benin was wracked by an investment scheme called ICC
Services that collapsed in June. An estimated 150,000 depositors
were defrauded of the equivalent of 5 percent of the country’s
gross domestic product, according to the  International Monetary
Fund . Boni Yayi said he would “help depositors of ICC Services
to be reimbursed.”  Benin, sub-Saharan  Africa ’s sixth-biggest cotton grower,
will “promote agricultural research for modernizing the farming
sector,” Boni Yayi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Serge-David Zoueme in Cotonou via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 