-- 
Benmosche Seeks to Boost Yield on AIG Holdings After Fed Rebuffed Bond Bid

-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-04-06T14:28:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/benmosche-seeks-to-boost-yield-on-aig-holdings-after-fed-rebuffed-bond-bid.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG)  is
seeking to boost cash returns on its investment portfolio after
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York rebuffed the insurer’s bid
to buy back the mortgage bonds turned over in its bailout.  “Right now, we need to come up with a yield,” Chief
Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche , 66, said today in an
interview at his villa in Dubrovnik,  Croatia . “We are looking
across a broad spectrum of investments.”  Benmosche is reshaping the New York-based firm’s investment
portfolio as near-record-low interest rates pressure returns and
the U.S. Treasury Department prepares to sell its stake in the
insurer to private investors. Rivals, including  Warren Buffett ’s
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  and  Allstate Corp. (ALL) , have shortened the
duration of investments, anticipating  interest rates  will rise.  The New York Fed is selling AIG’s former mortgage bonds in
blocks after refusing an offer from AIG to buy the entire pool,
called Maiden Lane II, for $15.7 billion.  “Even with some headwinds that have been created because
of not buying Maiden Lane II, we still believe that the taxpayer
will get back at least what they gave us, the principal and
interest,” Benmosche said.  AIG has sold more than $50 billion in assets, including
non-U.S. life units to repay a Fed credit line. Treasury plans
to dispose its 92 percent stake, valued at more than $55 billion
based on yesterday’s closing price, in public offerings to
recover its investment.  The Fed has kept its target overnight lending rate at zero
to 0.25 percent since December 2008, lowering borrowing costs
and decreasing yields for investors.  Investment Income  AIG’s investment income rose 10 percent to $5.46 billion in
the three months ended Dec. 31 as alternative assets, including
private-equity and hedge-fund holdings, generated $650 million
compared with  $443 million  a year earlier. The company had $1.56
billion in cash and $42.2 billion in short-term investments at
its subsidiaries at the end of last year, according to a  report 
on its website.  David Herzog, AIG’s chief financial officer, said in
February that the company expects “the redeployment of cash and
short-term investments into longer-term higher-yielding
securities will provide opportunity to improve future
earnings.”  Buffett, 80, chairman and CEO of Omaha, Nebraska-based
Berkshire, said last month that he would recommend against
buying long-term bonds denominated in U.S. dollars.  “If you ask me if the U.S. dollar is going to hold its
purchasing power fully at the level of 2011, 5 years, 10 years
or 20 years from now, I would tell you it will not,” Buffett
said in  New Delhi  on March 25.  Three-Year Plan  Benmosche, who told staff in October that he was being
treated for cancer, said his health is “OK” and that he
continues to exercise. AIG said last year that Chairman  Steve Miller  is available to be CEO if Benmosche steps down before a
permanent successor is named. Benmosche, who became CEO in 2009,
has said he intends to complete three years on the job.  “I would like to see all the Treasury stocks sold and to
feel comfortable that we have a sustainable organization and
leadership team, that AIG if it hits some new bumps in the road
will not have a problem,” he said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut in New York at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  