-- 
Bernanke May Have to Overcome Fed Split on Maintaining Stimulus Past June

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-04-06T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/bernanke-may-have-to-overcome-fed-split-on-maintaining-stimulus.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  may have to overcome divisions among policy makers
should he seek to maintain record stimulus past June, minutes of
the Fed’s March 15 meeting indicate.  A “few” among the central bank’s 17 governors and
regional bank presidents said tighter credit may be warranted
this year, while a “few others noted that exceptional policy
accommodation could be appropriate beyond 2011,” the  Federal
Open Market Committee  said in the minutes, released yesterday in
Washington.  Stocks and Treasuries fell on speculation the Fed may start
to tighten policy sooner than previously forecast after it
completes its $600 billion bond-purchase program in June. A
mixed bag of economic indicators, including higher food and
energy prices and a slowing expansion in  service industries ,
make Bernanke’s job tougher, said  Keith Hembre , a former Fed
researcher.  “You’ve got lower-than-desired growth and the potential
for higher-than-desired inflation here, and it definitely
complicates the picture from a policy standpoint,” said Hembre,
chief economist and investment strategist in  Minneapolis  at
Nuveen Asset Management, which oversees about $197 billion.  Several FOMC members “indicated, in light of recent
developments, that the risks to their forecasts of inflation had
shifted somewhat to the upside,” the minutes said.  Inflation Readings  Since the March FOMC meeting, reports showed the labor
market and inflation have picked up while  consumer confidence 
slipped and new home sales dropped to a record low. Some
regional Fed presidents who were skeptical of stimulus have
talked about the need to tighten credit, and Bernanke has yet to
indicate his preference for the Fed’s next move.  Even with the division, Bernanke and his top deputies,
Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  and New York Fed President  William Dudley , are unlikely to favor tighter policy this year, Hembre
said. “They’re the leadership,” Hembre said. “They’ll
dominate the debate and they’ll win.”  While the decision last month to continue the bond
purchases was unanimous, the Fed said a few of the 10 voting
members of the committee thought evidence of a stronger
recovery, higher inflation and rising inflation expectations
“could make it appropriate to reduce the pace or overall size
of the purchase program,” the minutes said. “Several others”
said they “did not anticipate making adjustments.”  Yield Climbs  U.S. stocks erased gains following the release of the
minutes. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was little changed at
1,332.63 at the close of trading in  New York  after rising as
much as 0.4 percent before the Fed report. The yield on the 10-
year Treasury note climbed to 3.48 percent from 3.42 percent the
day before.  In releases since the Fed meeting, the Commerce Department
reported that the central bank’s preferred price
measure, which excludes food and fuel, was up 0.9 percent from a
year earlier in February, the most since October. Including all
items, prices rose 1.6 percent, compared with a 1.2 percent 12-
month increase through January, the biggest monthly increase
since December 2009.  Several FOMC members “indicated, in light of recent
developments, that the risks to their forecasts of inflation had
shifted somewhat to the upside,” according to the minutes.
Bernanke said on April 4 in Stone Mountain,  Georgia , that policy
makers must watch inflation “extremely closely” for evidence
that rising commodity costs are having more than a temporary
impact on consumer prices.  ‘Abrupt Change’  “I don’t think we’re going to get a fast or abrupt change
in policy,” said  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont
Securities LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , on Bloomberg Radio’s
“The Hays Advantage.”  “But clearly the center of gravity, I think, is starting
to slowly but surely shift to a more hawkish bent as the
inflation data start to pick up a little bit,” said Stanley, a
former Fed researcher, using a term for Fed officials who are
more inclined to tighten credit to fight price increases.  The Fed’s reluctance to tighten contrasts with some of its
counterparts. European Central Bank policy makers have signaled
that they may raise their benchmark interest rate from a record
low of 1 percent when they next meet April 7, while  China  raised
borrowing costs yesterday for the fourth time since the global
financial crisis to limit the risk of asset price bubbles in the
world’s fastest-growing major economy.  ‘Moderate Pace’  Fed staff economists at the meeting gave a forecast for a
“moderate pace” of 2011 and 2012 growth similar to projections
at the last session in January, while lowering their forecast
for the  unemployment rate . Even so, “the jobless rate was still
expected to decline slowly and to remain elevated at the end of
2012,” the minutes said.  Hembre said he reduced his U.S. growth forecast for 2011
yesterday to 2.5 percent from 3 percent, and for the first
quarter to 3 percent from 3.5 percent, because “it looks like a
fairly weak quarter for domestic demand in spite of the fact
that we had a payroll tax cut in the first quarter that boosted
disposable income.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  