-- 
Besson Says Decisions on Power Law Will Be Taken in April

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-04-06T08:34:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/besson-says-decisions-on-power-law-will-be-taken-in-april-1-.html
French Industry Minister Eric Besson
said the price at which Electricite de  France  SA will have to
sell nuclear power to competitors under a law to overhaul the
power market may be decided this month.  Asked whether the government is still aiming for a July 1
implementation of the electricity law, Besson said: “Yes, for
the moment that remains unchanged.  ‘‘When the time comes, probably around mid April, at least
before the end of April there will be a meeting on this
subject,’’ with President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and Prime Minister
Francois Fillon, Besson said. The date for applying the law,
known as Nome, will also be set at this meeting, he said.  EDF’s share price fell to a two-year low today following a
government announcement to cap electricity price increases and
uncertainty about the planned overhaul.  The power law, passed by parliament last year, aims to open
up the  electricity market  by forcing EDF, operator of the
country’s 58 reactors, to sell as much as a quarter of its
output to competitors such as GDF Suez SA. The wholesale price
will determine whether rivals can compete in France’s regulated
market, the second-biggest in  Europe  after  Germany . The law is
due to take effect July 1.  ‘Fair Assessment’  Besson has said the wholesale price will be a ‘‘fair
assessment” of EDF’s costs for generating power from existing
reactors and investment needed to prolong their operating
lifetimes.  The price will also ensure that French consumers continue
to benefit from relatively cheap power from nuclear reactors, he
said last month. The government yesterday announced that a rise
in regulated power rates for consumers would be 2.9 percent on
July 1 and last through June 30, 2012.  EDF has said production costs are 45 euros a megawatt-hour.
The state-controlled utility has set 2011 financial targets
based on obtaining government approval to sell wholesale power
in France at 42 euros a megawatt-hour. Rival  GDF Suez (GSZ)  is pushing
for 35 euros a megawatt-hour.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  