-- 
Blatter Aide Says FIFA President ‘Positive’ Over His Bid for Re-Election

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-04-06T15:47:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/blatter-aide-says-fifa-president-positive-over-his-bid-for-re-election.html
Sepp Blatter will defeat challenger
Mohamed  Bin Hammam  to win fourth term as  FIFA  president, one of
his aides said today.  “We are very positive,” Walter Gagg, who works for
Blatter at the organization’s headquarters in Zurich, said in
an interview in London. “It will all become clear in a matter
of weeks.”  Blatter and Qatar’s Bin Hammam are competing to head one of
the world’s most important sporting organizations in a June 1
ballot of FIFA’s 208 national associations. Its quadrennial
 World Cup  tournament generates more than $4 billion.  Gagg, who’s known Blatter for more than four decades, said
the 75-year-old was confident of winning another term, which
Blatter said would be his last. He was first elected president
in 1998. African soccer president Issa Hayatou, who Blatter
defeated in 2002, was next to Gagg at the Sport Accord
conference in  London , and declined to say who he’d vote for.  Blatter was in London two days ago to meet with  England ’s
Football Association. Officials from the country’s 2018 World
Cup bid team attacked FIFA’s lack of openness when England
placed last in a vote won by Russia in December. Blatter will
travel to  Nicaragua  in two weeks and both men are expected to be
in Miami for the May 1 Congress of North and Central American
soccer federations.  Bin Hammam, 61, is a multimillionaire who made his money
in construction in the Gulf, and helped fund Blatter’s first
election. FIFA doesn’t disclose how much it pays Blatter. FIFA
spokesman Nicolas Maingot hasn’t responded to inquires made last
month about whether an incumbent can use the organization’s
resources for a re-election bid.  Blatter’s Nomination  Blatter was nominated for re-election by Somalia last month.
Bin Hammam has received the backing of Yemen, Nepal,  Sri Lanka 
and  Thailand .  Gagg’s confidence in Blatter was supported by Lennart Johansson, the 81-year-old former UEFA president beaten by the
Swiss national in 1998.  “Blatter has been there for 40 years and he was elected by
a 100 percent last time,” Johansson said during in an interview
in Paris last month. “I cannot see what has happened lately
that would lead to him stepping down.”  Under Blatter, FIFA has recovered from near bankruptcy in
2001. It has more than $1 billion in cash reserves and secured
long-term television and sponsorship rights worth $3.7 billion.
His critics say that the organization’s decision-making process
lacks transparency. Two members of FIFA’s executive committee
were suspended from voting for the 2018 and 2022 World Cups
after telling undercover reporters posing as businessmen that
they could buy their support.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  at the London newsroom
at   tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 