-- 
Bloomberg and The Washington Post to Host GOP Debate

-- B y  
-- 
2011-04-06T21:20:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/bloomberg-and-the-washington-post-to-host-gop-debate.html
                                
Press Release  New Hampshire  Debate to Focus on Economic Issues  WASHINGTON, DC -- Bloomberg and The Washington Post will host a
Republican presidential candidate debate on Oct. 11 at  Dartmouth
College  that focuses on the issues voters say they care about
most: jobs, deficits, taxes and the economy.  Partnering with Bloomberg News and The Washington Post will be
WBIN, the New Hampshire television station, which will broadcast
the debate statewide. Bloomberg Television will broadcast the
debate globally, and washingtonpostlive.com, which has 16
million viewers, will stream the event in real time.  The Bloomberg-Washington Post debate will be the first of the
2012 campaign devoted to the single subject of the  U.S. economy .
Three years after the most severe downturn in the economy since
the Great Depression, the candidates will debate over federal
spending, deficits and debt, Social Security, Medicare,
financial regulatory reform, taxes and the top issue in national
polls: jobs.  Bloomberg News and The  Washington  Post have a syndication
partnership that distributes stories to almost 500 newspapers
worldwide. The Bloomberg Terminal reaches more than 300,000
global financial professionals, Bloomberg.com reaches nearly 12
million users each month, and Bloomberg Businessweek and
BloombergBusinessweek.com reach 10 million readers.  Washington Post Live, the events division of The Washington
Post, will organize the debate for The Washington Post.  About Bloomberg  Bloomberg is the world’s most trusted source of information for
financial professionals and businesses.  Bloomberg combines
innovative technology with unmatched analytics, data, news, and
display and distribution capabilities, to deliver critical
information via the Bloomberg Professional service and
multimedia platforms.  Bloomberg’s media properties span
television, radio, digital and print, making up one of the
world’s largest news organizations with more than 2,300 news and
multimedia professionals at 146 bureaus in 72 countries  Contact for Bloomberg:  Sarah Feinberg, +1 202-657-2454,  sfeinberg2@bloomberg.net 
