-- 
Boeing ‘Concerned’ as 737s’ Cracks Occur Earlier Than Expected

-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 
2011-04-06T01:43:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/boeing-concerned-as-737s-cracks-occur-earlier-than-expected.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  said metal-fatigue
inspections must be stepped up on older 737s, the world’s most
widely flown jet, after cracks developed earlier than expected
on a  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  plane that split open last week.  Cracks on the so-called 737 Classic weren’t forecast to
occur until “much later,” after 60,000 cycles of takeoffs and
landings, said Paul Richter, Boeing’s chief project engineer for
older jets. The plane that ripped in an April 1 flight above
 Arizona  had flown 39,781 cycles.  “We are all concerned about this recent development,”
Richter said yesterday on a conference call. He said Boeing is
working with airlines worldwide to ensure that those making
frequent, shorter flights, like Southwest, inspect the jets
within five days.  About 175 planes flown by carriers in the U.S.,  Asia  and
 Europe  meet the criteria of a U.S. Federal Aviation
Administration directive issued yesterday requiring inspections
for cracks on all 737-300s, 737-400s and 737-500s that have
flown more than 30,000 cycles. The FAA also is taking the rare
step of requiring checks again every 500 cycles as a precaution
while the probe continues, Richter said.  Boeing has built almost 6,700 737s and has a backlog for
more than 2,100 more. The single-aisle jet, along with Airbus
SAS’s A320, is the backbone of the aviation industry, used
chiefly on domestic and short-haul flights.  Southwest is the biggest operator of 737 Classics, followed
by  Germany ’s  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ,  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC) ,
Malaysia Airline System Bhd. and  United Continental Holdings
Inc. (UAL) , according to data from aviation research firm Ascend.  Grounded Planes  Southwest pulled 79 planes from service after last week’s
incident forced an emergency landing, injuring a flight
attendant and a passenger. The Dallas-based carrier found cracks
on five other 737s, and Boeing has developed repair plans for
three of those so far, Richter said.  Brandy King, a Southwest spokeswoman, declined to comment
on Boeing’s findings. The airline said it operated a full flight
schedule yesterday.  Lufthansa said that in coming days, during regular
maintenance, it will check three of its jets that were built in
the same period as the Southwest plane. It didn’t find any
problems during inspections earlier this week. The carrier’s
BMIbaby unit said it also plans to inspect three aircraft over
the next few days, using available ground time.  British Airways,  US Airways  and United Continental said
their fleets haven’t been affected by the Southwest incident.  Overnight Inspections  Alaska Air Group Inc. (ALK)  plans to check two 737-400s in
overnight inspections that won’t disrupt scheduled flights.
Another 15 aircraft will need to be inspected in three to six
years as they reach the threshold outlined by the FAA, said Paul McElroy, a company spokesman in Seattle.  Boeing, based in  Chicago , was aware of the potential for
problems with fatigue around the fasteners that hold the 737
fuselage panels together and changed the design for newer models
of the plane starting in 2000, Richter said.  Boeing is urging airlines to inspect the lower row of
fasteners in the lap joints along the left and right side of the
crown of the planes, a section about 50 feet long, Richter said.
With two inspectors, one on each side, each check will probably
take about eight hours, he said.  The company has “very high confidence” in the inspection
technique with handheld instruments that can find “very short
cracks” using electromagnetic technology, Richter said.  Fuselage Sections  The FAA’s directive eventually will require about 570
planes to be checked, Richter said. Airlines that find cracks
will need to collaborate with Boeing on how best to fix their
aircraft, and will probably need to cut out and replace sections
of the fuselage, he said.  The Southwest repairs will probably require removing an 18-
inch length of the lap joints and will take 8 to 16 hours per
jet, he said. The April 1 incident was “a statistical event”
and doesn’t have anything to do with Southwest’s maintenance
program or with how the carrier operates its planes, Richter
said.  Boeing knew that the first 737s, which the company began
building in  Seattle  in 1967, would have problems along the lap
joints, and the FAA already has devised inspections and repairs
for those planes, Richter said. The company changed the design
for all 737-300s, -400s and -500s built after 1993, and those
are the ones that weren’t expected to start cracking until they
reached 60,000 cycles.  By 2000, when the models known as Next-Generation 737s
began to be built, the company had developed a new design that’s
“significantly different and much improved,” Richter said.
Engineers were able to reduce how much the metal fuselage bends
when the plane is pressurized as it ascends, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  