-- 
Bonds’s Lawyers Rest Case Without Calling Witnesses; U.S. Drops One Count

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 
2011-04-06T20:31:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/bonds-s-lawyers-rest-case-without-calling-witnesses-u-s-drops-one-count.html
Lawyers for  Barry Bonds , baseball’s
home-run record-holder, rested their case today without calling
any witnesses, minutes after prosecutors dropped one of four
perjury charges against the former San Francisco Giants player.  The jury will get the case tomorrow after prosecutors and
Bonds’s lawyers present final arguments, said U.S. District
Judge  Susan Illston  in San Francisco. Prosecutors dropped one of
five counts, an accusation that the ballplayer lied by saying he
never took “anything” given to him by his former trainer
before the 2003 baseball season.  Bonds faces three counts of lying when he told a grand jury
he didn’t knowingly take steroids and one count of obstruction
of justice. The jury’s verdict may affect Bonds’s chances of
getting into baseball’s Hall of Fame, said Fay Vincent, who was
 Major League Baseball  commissioner from 1989 to 1992.  “If he is convicted in any respect, that makes it very
unlikely for him to get in while he’s alive,” Vincent said
today in a phone interview.  Allen Ruby, one of Bonds’s attorneys, said yesterday that
the defense might call Bonds, a former trainer and three other
witnesses. He also said no witnesses might be called. He didn’t
tell Illston today why the defense chose not to call anyone.  ‘Message’ to Jury  “They haven’t proven their case at all, and there’s no
need to say anything, why put him up there -- that’s the message
they are trying to get across,” said Robert Talbot, a
University of  San Francisco  law professor, in a phone interview.  Bonds, 46, who holds Major League Baseball’s career and
single-season home run records, told a federal grand jury in
2003 that he never knowingly took steroids provided by his
former fitness and weight trainer,  Greg Anderson , and that no
one other than his doctor gave him injections. Prosecutors
allege those statements were false.  His lawyers say he truthfully testified that he received
performance-enhancing substances from Anderson, not knowing what
they were because they were new at the time.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Jeff Nedrow told Illston today,
before the jury was called to the courtroom, that count four of
the indictment against Bonds would be dropped. Yesterday Nedrow
said that the word “anything” in the count meant any steroids,
not just so-called cream, a designer steroid. Bonds’s attorneys
said the charge could be misconstrued and Illston agreed.  ‘Like a Milkshake’  “How could it be material to anyone if it’s ‘anything,’
like a milkshake?” Illston said.  Bonds said during his grand jury testimony, a portion of
which was read to the jury yesterday, that Anderson had given
him vitamins and protein shakes, as well as an ointment the
trainer said was flaxseed oil.  Prosecutors previously pared back the charges against Bonds
at least twice since he was first indicted in 2007.  Over objections from Bonds’s attorneys, Illston today
refused to bar evidence from two government witnesses about the
side effects of steroid use.  That means jurors can consider testimony by Bonds’s former
mistress Kimberly Bell, who said he experienced testicular
shrinkage and sexual performance problems, and Larry Bowers, an
anti-doping scientist who told the jury that those were side
effects of anabolic steroid abuse.  Illston scheduled a hearing for late today to meet with
lawyers from both sides about her instructions to the jury.  The case is U.S. v. Bonds, 07-00732, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  California  (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Gloster in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 