-- 
BP May Win Brazil Approval for Devon Asset Purchase as Soon as This Month

-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 
2011-04-06T12:16:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/bp-may-win-brazil-approval-for-devon-asset-purchase-as-soon-as-this-month.html
BP Plc, whose stock lost a third
since the biggest U.S. oil spill, may win approval for its $3.2
billion purchase of  Devon Energy Corp. (DVN) ’s  Brazil  assets as soon
as this month, a top lawyer at the nation’s oil regulator said.  The London-based company meets the “technical” requirements
to operate off the coast of Brazil where eight of the 10 blocks
BP plans to buy from Devon are located, Tiago Macedo, general
counsel for the National Hydrocarbons Agency, said yesterday.  “The approval of BP, relating to Devon, is technically
authorized -- the only thing missing is the formal approval of
this transfer,” Macedo said in an interview in  Rio de Janeiro .
“There should be no impediment to BP giving continuity to these
contracts.”  The ANP, as the agency is known, has reviewed BP’s
operational and financial capabilities for over a year and asked
the company for additional documentation after the spill at the
offshore Macondo well. BP and Devon originally expected the deal
to close last year.  BP London-based spokesman Mark Salt declined to comment on
the timing of the approval process.  Devon’s blocks are in up to 8,150 feet (2,484 meters) of
water in the Campos basin, compared with 5,000 feet at Macondo.
The Devon purchase would give BP oil fields in a country that
plans to double production by 2020 as it develops the largest
discoveries in the Americas since  Mexico ’s Cantarell in 1976.  Oklahoma-based Devon sold all of its offshore and
international assets last year to focus on production in the
U.S. and  Canada .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 Pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts in Buenos Aires at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  