-- 
BP Nearing Brazil Approval for Devon Deal, Regulator Says

-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 
2011-04-06T14:05:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/bp-may-win-brazil-approval-for-devon-deal-as-soon-as-this-month.html
BP Plc (BP/) , whose stock lost a third
since the biggest U.S. oil spill, may win approval for its $3.2
billion purchase of  Devon Energy Corp. (DVN) ’s Brazil assets as soon
as this month, a top lawyer at the nation’s oil regulator said.  The London-based company meets the “technical”
requirements to operate offshore Brazil where eight of the 10
blocks BP plans to buy from Devon are located, said Tiago
Macedo, general counsel for the National Hydrocarbons Agency.  “The approval of BP, relating to Devon, is technically
authorized -- the only thing missing is the formal approval of
this transfer,” Macedo said in an interview late yesterday in
Rio de Janeiro, where the agency is based. “There should be no
impediment to BP giving continuity to these contracts.”  The ANP, as the regulator is known, has reviewed BP’s
operational and financial capabilities for over a year and asked
the company for additional documentation after the spill at the
offshore Macondo well in the  Gulf of Mexico . The two companies
originally expected the deal to close last year.  BP London-based spokesman Mark Salt declined to comment on
the timing of the approval process.  BP rose 85 pence, or 0.2 percent, to 475.70 pence as of
2:49 p.m. in  London , after earlier rising to as much as 476.70
pence.  Devon’s blocks are in up to 8,150 feet (2,484 meters) of
water in the Campos basin, compared with 5,000 feet at Macondo.
The Devon purchase would give BP oil fields in a country that
plans to double production by 2020 as it develops the largest
discoveries in the Americas since  Mexico ’s Cantarell in 1976.  ‘Good News’  “It’s good news in that there is another highly reputable
source endorsing BP,”  Jason Gammel , an analyst at Macquarie
Capital Europe Ltd. in London said today in a telephone
interview. “It suggests that the industry overall has faith in
BP to be stronger moving forward. The Campos basin is highly
prospective, so it’s a nice asset for the portfolio.”  Oklahoma-based Devon sold all of its offshore and
international assets last year to focus on production in the
U.S. and  Canada .  The Polvo field Devon operates in shallow waters of the
Campos Basin produced 12,265 barrels a day in January, according
to data on the ANP’s website. Devon discovered the Itaipu
prospect in deep waters of the Campos basin in late 2009, and
also found oil last year at the BM-C-34 block in the same area.
Devon also holds a 25 percent stake in the Wahoo discovery,
operated by Anadarko Petroleum Corp.  Emerging Markets  BP Chief Executive Officer  Robert Dudley  is stepping up
exploration in emerging markets, which the company expects to
lead a 40 percent gain in global energy demand by 2030.  Since the start of the year, BP has signed exploration
agreements in Australia, Russia and  India  for offshore oil and
gas. BP sealed a partnership with Cnooc Ltd. last year to
explore the South China Sea.  BP has yet to return to drilling in the Gulf of Mexico
after the ban on exploration was lifted in October. The company
has applied to drill one new deepwater well there, according to
a person familiar with the application. Interior Secretary Ken Salazar said April 4 that doesn’t have any agreement to resume
drilling in the region.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 Pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts in  Buenos Aires  at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  