-- 
Breast-Cancer Link to Paxil Drug Category Found in Antidepressant Research

-- B y   D u n e   L a w r e n c e
-- 
2011-04-07T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/breast-cancer-link-to-paxil-drug-category-found-in-antidepressant-research.html
Scientists should more closely
examine whether antidepressant drugs increase the risk of breast
and ovarian cancer, according to a researcher affiliated with
 Harvard University  whose review of 61 studies suggested a link.  The risk of cancer increased 11 percent on average for
patients taking the medicines, according to a report that
analyzed previous data and was published in yesterday’s issue of
the peer-reviewed journal  PLoS ONE .  The researchers found that 20 of the studies identified a
link. The connection was stronger in cases of the most widely
used of the drugs,  selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors , or
SSRIs. Of 16 studies that looked at this class of drugs, which
include  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Paxil, 15 detected a higher chance
of cancer, according to the paper.  “Reviewing the evidence is a critical public health issue
in light of the increasing prevalence of AD use, especially
among women, and in light of the fact that one in eight women
will be diagnosed with cancer of the breast during their
lifetime,” the investigators said in the report.  Lisa Cosgrove, a research lab fellow at Harvard’s  Edmond J.
Safra Center for Ethics  in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , and an
associate professor of psychology at the University of
Massachusetts Boston, led the review. The findings point to a
need for more study of SSRI use in women and the link to cancer,
she said.  “I would want to consider nondrug treatment if I was
mildly depressed, given our data,” Cosgrove said.  FDA Warning on Label  Antidepressants, used by 27 million Americans, are the third
most-prescribed class of drug in the U.S. behind cholesterol-
lowering medications and painkillers. SSRIs, which raise levels
of the chemical serotonin in the brain, have been shown to
increase suicidal thoughts and behavior in teenagers and
children, and the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  in 2004
ordered that the medications carry the strictest warning on
their labels.  The first SSRI was  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ’s Prozac, approved by
the FDA in  1987 . A message left for  Mark Taylor , a Lilly
spokesman, wasn’t immediately returned, and a call to his mobile
phone wasn’t answered. Sarah Alspach, a spokeswoman for Glaxo,
the London-based maker of Paxil, declined to comment because no
one at the company had the opportunity to review the study.  Cosgrove and her five collaborators analyzed 26
epidemiological and 35 pre-clinical studies conducted between
1965 and 2010 that tested for a link between antidepressants and
breast or ovarian cancer.  Earlier Studies  The increase in the risk of cancer was based on a meta-
analysis of the 26 epidemiological studies. The Harvard project
reanalyzed the studies to see whether the combined data would
give a clearer picture of the risk.  The individual studies had mixed results. One published in
2000 by Dr. Michelle Cotterchio of the  University of Toronto  and
colleagues showed that compared with no antidepressant use, the
breast-cancer risk for women who took tricyclic drugs (an older
class of treatments that predates SSRIs) for more than two years
doubled. Women taking paroxetine (branded as Paxil) faced a
sevenfold increase, according to the same report.  Of the 16 studies on SSRIs in Cosgrove’s review, four found
a statistically significant positive association with cancer,
based on the original conclusions of the studies.  A meta-analysis can be useful when the initial studies were
unable to come to a strong conclusion, were small, or yielded a
wide range of results, according to Milayna Subar, national
practice leader in oncology for  Franklin Lakes , New Jersey-based
Medco Health Solutions Inc., a pharmacy benefits company.  Links to Drugmakers  “I would not have thought it to be an open question, but a
question can be opened again when new data come out,” said
Subar, who said she hadn’t seen the PLoS ONE study. “If new data
come out and they change the current thinking, it will be
debated again.”  The researchers also found differences in the conclusions
of studies in which the lead investigator had a connection to a
maker of antidepressants and those headed by an independent
scientist, according to report. In the 15 cases where there was
a drugmaker link, not one study found a cancer link. Of the 46
others, 43 percent cited a risk, the researchers said.  ‘Adverse Effect’  The drug companies weren’t identified in the report. A
researcher connection was defined as working for an
antidepressant maker; receiving honoraria, research funding or
support from one; holding equity in, consulting for or being on
the board of such a company; or holding a patent, patent
application or royalties on an antidepressant medication.  “The question is certainly open about the link between
cancer and antidepressants, but we can say that researchers with
industry ties are far less likely to publish studies that link a
serious adverse effect to a popular drug class,” said Cosgrove,
a critic of ties between psychiatrists and drugmakers.  A  2006 study  she led found 56 percent of the 170 doctors
responsible for revisions of the  Diagnostic and Statistical
Manual of Mental Disorders , which influences prescribing
practices, had one or more financial associations with
drugmakers.  Doctors wrote 168 million prescriptions for antidepressants
in 2009, making them the third most-prescribed  class of drugs ,
generating $9.9 billion in sales, according to IMS Health, a
Norwalk, Connecticut-based market research firm.  SSRIs were the most widely used antidepressants in the U.S.
in 2010, with 135.4 million prescriptions dispensed last year,
according to IMS Health.  About 10 percent of Americans took antidepressants in 2005,
up from 6 percent in 1996, according to a study published in
2009 in the  Archives of General Psychiatry  by researchers at
 Columbia University  in  New York  and the  University of
Pennsylvania  in Philadelphia.  Heart Attack Risk  Breast cancer  is the second-most common malignancy in women,
after skin tumors, according to the U.S.  Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention  in Atlanta. In 2007, the most recent year
for which CDC data are available, 202,964 women were diagnosed
with breast cancer and 40,598 died from it.  A study published in 2009 found that SSRIs interfered with
the breast cancer medication tamoxifen, with tumors more than
twice as likely to return after two years in women taking
antidepressants compared with those taking tamoxifen alone. The
FDA doesn’t plan to amend the drug’s label to include
interactions with SSRIs, Erica Jefferson, an FDA spokeswoman,
said yesterday in an e-mail.  Another report on antidepressants, presented April 2 at the
 American College of Cardiology  meeting in  New Orleans , concluded
the drugs may  narrow  the arteries of middle-aged men,
potentially putting them at risk for heart attacks and stroke.
The U.S.  National Institutes of Health  funded that study.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dune Lawrence in New York at 
 dlawrence6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka in  Boston  at 
 gputka@bloomberg.net . 