-- 
Bulgarian Premier Overturns Dismissal of Power Utility Chief

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 
2011-04-06T16:42:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/bulgarian-premier-overturns-dismissal-of-power-utility-chief.html
Bulgarian Prime Minister Boiko Borissov reinstated Krassimir Parvanov as the head of National
Electricity Co. a day after he was fired by Energy Minister
Traicho Traikov for signing an agreement with Rosatom Corp.  Bulgaria ’s main electricity utility and  Russia ’s state-
owned Rosatom Corp. have been in talks over the past week on
extending an accord to build a 2,000 megawatt nuclear plant on
the Danube and to conduct additional safety checks after an
earthquake off  Japan  caused an explosion at the Fukushima plant
and raised the potential for a reactor meltdown.  Traikov said yesterday he was firing Parvanov because he
acted outside his mandate and signed an addendum to an
agreement with Rosatom, which committed Bulgaria to complete
negotiations on the nuclear plant construction before the safety
checks were done and regardless of whether an agreement on the
price was reached.  “Minister Traikov made a mistake and has been warned,”
Borissov told reporters in Sofia today. Traikov departed for
Moscow today to continue negotiations with Russian counterpart
Sergei Shmatko.  Parvanov denied any wrongdoing saying the documents he
signed bore no such commitment and that he had coordinated his
actions with Deputy Prime Minister  Simeon Djankov , who oversees
finance and economy.  “Had we not signed the addendum extending the agreement,
the Russian side would have had reason to take us to court for
an unfulfilled contract,” Parvanov said at a news conference in
Sofia today.  Bulgaria is seeking to construct a nuclear plant to meet
growing energy needs as older utilities are decommissioned. The
project has been stalled after a 2005 contract because of a lack
of funding and disagreements over Rosatom’s demands for higher
construction costs.  Rosatom has increased the price to 6.4 billion euros ($9.1
billion) from 4 billion euros because of delayed construction.
Bulgaria estimates the cost at about 5 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  