-- 
CANADA DAYBOOK: Toronto-Dominion Bank, CIBC Post Second-Quarter Results

-- B y   S t e f a n i e   B a t c h o - L i n o
-- 
2011-05-26T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/canada-daybook-election-campaigning-rio-tinto-ceo-in-montreal.html
Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) , Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce and National Bank of  Canada  are
scheduled to report second-quarter earnings.  ECONOMY:
*  Statistics Canada  reports on first-quarter business profits as
well as payrolls, earnings and hours at 8:30 a.m.
* Prime Minister Stephen Harper is in  France  for the Group of
Eight nations summit.  EVENTS:
*Toronto-Dominion Bank, Canada’s second-largest bank by assets,
is set to report second-quarter results around 6:30 a.m. The
Toronto-based bank is expected to report profit per-share
earnings, excluding one-items, of C$1.61.
*Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, the country’s fifth-largest
lender by assets, is scheduled to report second-quarter earnings
at 6 a.m. in Toronto. The average profit estimate among 17
analysts in a Bloomberg survey is C$1.80 a share, excluding
certain items. The bank will hold a call at 8 a.m. Toronto time.
* National Bank of Canada (NA) , Canada’s sixth-largest bank, is set to
report second-quarter earnings around 7:30 a.m. The Montreal-
based bank is estimated to report earnings, excluding one-time
items, of C$1.67 a share, according to the average of 12
analysts in a Bloomberg survey. The bank may also increase its
quarterly dividend, according to Bloomberg Dividend Forecasts.
*Quebecor Inc., the majority owner of newspaper-publisher Sun
Media Corp. and cable television provider Videotron Ltd., is to
report first-quarter results. The average profit estimate among
eight analysts in a Bloomberg survey is 54 Canadian cents a
share, excluding certain items.
*Group Aeroplan Inc. will discuss its earnings at a conference
call at 8 a.m. and will hold its annual general meeting at 1:30
p.m. in Toronto.
*The Financial Consumer Agency of Canada and the Organisation
for Economic Co-operation and Development hold a global
conference on  financial literacy  May 26 and 27 at the Westin
Harbour Castle in Toronto. Speakers include BMO Nesbitt Burns
Chairman Jacques Menard.
*Sean Boyd, vice-chairman and chief executive officer of Agnico-
Eagle Mines Ltd., Canada’s fourth-largest gold producer by
market value, is to address the Goldman Sachs Basic Materials
Conference at 10 a.m. in  New York .
*Canada’s Venture Capital & Private Equity Association begins
its three-day annual conference at the Westin Bayshore Hotel in
 Vancouver .  MARKETS:
*The S&P/TSX gained 1.2 percent to a three-week high of
13,751.47.
*Yields on two-year Government of Canada bonds declined to 1.59
at 4:10 p.m. yesterday.
*The Canadian dollar fell to 97.79 cents per U.S. dollar
yesterday at 4:08 p.m. in Toronto.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefanie Batcho-Lino at 
 sbatcholino1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 