-- 
McCain Says Palin Would Be ‘Very Competitive’ 2012 Candidate

-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 
2011-04-06T17:36:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/mccain-says-palin-would-be-very-competitive-2012-candidate-1-.html
Sarah Palin would be a “very
competitive” candidate for the White House in 2012 if she
decided to run, said Arizona Senator  John McCain , who chose her
as his running mate on the 2008 Republican presidential ticket.  “She has a significant and strong base in the Republican
Party,” McCain told reporters today at a roundtable organized
by the Christian Science Monitor. “I have not seen any
indication as to whether she is going to run.”  Representative  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota , who is
weighing a presidential run, “has gained the attention and
attraction of a lot of the Tea Partiers,” McCain said,
referring to the fiscally conservative activists who helped fuel
Republican gains in the 2010 midterm elections. It isn’t clear
what the “dynamics” would be between Bachmann and Palin if
Palin decided to run for president, he said.  McCain said he will “remain out of the primaries” and
isn’t planning to make endorsements during that process.  Bachmann has traveled to Iowa and New Hampshire, states
that weigh in early in the party candidate selection process.
She is also expected to travel to  South Carolina  later in April.  Both Bachmann and Palin, the former governor of Alaska,
praised the House Republican budget plan for 2012, unveiled by
Representative Paul Ryan of  Wisconsin  yesterday. The
Republicans’ first comprehensive budget plan since the November
elections when the party took control of the U.S. House would
cut the federal deficit next year to $995 billion from about
$1.4 trillion now. It wouldn’t balance the government’s books
until 2040.  Palin, 47, used her Twitter account to say: “There is
hope! Serious & necessary leadership rolls out serious &
necessary reform proposal. Good start.”  Bachmann, 55, praised the plan for being “focused on  job
creation  and debt reduction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  