-- 
CFTC May Need to Re-Propose Swap-Trading Rules, Sommers Says

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-04-06T18:05:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/cftc-may-need-to-re-propose-swap-trading-rules-sommers-says-1-.html
The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission  may need to re-propose rules, required under the
Dodd-Frank Act, to allow more flexibility in swap-trading
systems, said Jill E. Sommers, one of five agency commissioners.  The rule defining so-called swap execution facilities is
“overly restrictive” and may limit the number of swaps that
can be traded on the new platforms, Sommers said in a speech
prepared for  OpenLink’s 2011 Worldwide User Conference  in  New
Orleans .  Financial regulators “should adopt a model that provides
the maximum amount of flexibility as to the method of trading
for swaps, whether cleared, uncleared, liquid or bespoke,” said
Sommers, one of two Republican commissioners. The agency is
required under the law to finalize rules by mid-July.  Gary Gensler , CFTC chairman, has said that some rules will be adopted
later in the year.  The CFTC and  Securities and Exchanges Commission  are
leading U.S. efforts to write new derivatives rules after
largely unregulated swaps helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis.
Dodd-Frank, enacted last July, requires both agencies to adopt
rules governing swap-execution facilities as an alternative to
traditional exchanges for trading in interest-rate, credit and
other swaps.  In December, the CFTC proposed allowing participants in the
facilities to request price quotes from a minimum of five
possible sellers. The SEC on Feb. 2 proposed a rule that would
allow buyers to request a quote from a single seller.  Trading Revenue  Greater flexibility in rules may allow banks to preserve
trading revenue. The largest swaps dealers make a collective $30
billion a year by executing fixed-income swaps with customers,
compared with $3 billion to $5 billion a year from trading
fixed-income futures, Robert Urtheil, a partner at  Oliver Wyman 
consulting firm, said in an interview in February.  “Flexibility gives SEF participants the ability to
minimize information leakage and avoid adverse price
movements,” Edward J. Rosen, a lawyer at  Cleary Gottlieb Steen
& Hamilton ,  wrote  to the SEC and CFTC on April 5, on behalf of
13 banks and brokers, including  Deutsche Bank AG (DB) ,  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC)  and Credit Suisse. Oliver Wyman is a unit of Marsh &
McLennan Cos., the second-biggest insurance broker.  Setting a minimum number of recipients for a request for
quotes "could harm market participants, particularly end-users,
by requiring action that signals their trading interest,’’ the
 International Swaps and Derivatives Association  and  Securities
Industry and Financial Markets Association  said in an April 4
letter to the SEC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  