-- 
China, India Consumers to Lead Surge in Global Dairy Demand, Fonterra Says

-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 
2011-04-06T04:17:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/china-india-consumers-to-lead-surge-in-global-dairy-demand-fonterra-says.html
Global demand for dairy products
will jump in the next decade, led by surging consumption in
 China  and  India , according to Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd.,
the world’s largest exporter.  China’s dairy demand will expand by 36 million metric tons,
almost tripling in value to $71 billion by 2020, Fonterra Chief
Executive Andrew Ferrier said at a conference in Rotorua, New
Zealand. Consumption in India will grow by 45 million tons, the
company estimated.  Rising incomes and expanding populations are fueling demand
for protein-rich diets in emerging markets as global food prices
tracked by the  United Nations  climbed to a record in February.
Whole-milk powder rose to an all-time high of $4,958 a ton last
month, buoyed by demand from  Asia  and concerns that dry weather
in New Zealand may curb supply.  “The outlook is very strong on the back of robust
population and income growth, and the emerging middle class will
underpin growth for years to come,” Doug Steel, markets
economist at Bank of  New Zealand  Ltd. in Wellington, said today.
“China may have been faster out of the block but we’ll see
India on the same growth profile.”  Chinese demand for New Zealand milk products last year
surged more than fivefold from 2008 to about 353 million
kilograms, Fonterra said. Imports by the Asian nation will more
than double to $950 million by 2020, from $400 million last
year, according to the company’s forecasts.  Increasing Gap  India’s purchases of New Zealand dairy products more than
doubled to NZ$162 million ($125 million) last year, according to
government data supplied by Fonterra.  “There’s enormous growth in dairy demand,” Ferrier said
yesterday. “Not just per-capita consumption is going up,
populations are going up as well.”  Fonterra, with NZ$16.7 billion in annual sales, sells milk,
butter and cheese in 140 countries and accounts for almost 40
percent of global trade in dairy products.  “We’re seeing demand go up very, very strongly,” Ferrier
said. “Imports, although they’re going to double, we think, you
can see the increasing gap, and the increasing gap will be
filled by locally produced Chinese milk.”  While New Zealand won’t be able to meet the forecast
expansion in global demand, with production growing 4 million
tons by 2019, Fonterra said yesterday it was planning
“multiple” dairy farms in China and was evaluating the idea of
building farms in India and  South America .  The company in October agreed to develop a dairy farm in
China’s Hebei province to expand local production. Its farm at
Tangshan has doubled to more than 6,000 cows since it opened in
2007 and produces about 25 million liters of milk for local
consumption.  “The world is a big place and there’s going to be
opportunities to partner with customers beyond just New Zealand
milk,” he said.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Wellington at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole in Singapore at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  