-- 
China to Raise Fuel Prices Today After Crude Oil Costs Climb, Planner Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-07T08:32:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/china-said-to-increase-fuel-retail-prices-starting-tomorrow.html
China  raised retail fuel prices for
the second time this year after oil’s advance to a 30-month high
undermined the government’s efforts to cap costs and cool
inflation in the world’s second-largest economy.  Prices rose by as much as 5.8 percent today, with gasoline
increasing by 500 yuan ($76) a metric ton, or 0.37 yuan a liter,
and diesel by 400 yuan, or 0.34 yuan a liter, the National
Development and Reform Commission said in a statement yesterday.  Crude fell on concern higher prices will crimp demand in
the world’s second-largest oil consumer, while shares of Chinese
refiners gained. The fuel-price increase came two days after
China raised  interest rates  for the fourth time since October to
tame inflation that exceeded the government’s target.  “China has reluctantly raised domestic gasoline and diesel
prices to record highs,” said  Gordon Kwan , head of regional
energy research at Mirae Asset Securities in  Hong Kong . “The
move is like pulling teeth with the government amid the anti-
inflation campaign.”  China last increased fuel tariffs by as much as 4.6 percent
on Feb. 20, based on a mechanism introduced in December 2008
that allows adjustments when crude costs change more than 4
percent over 22 working days. Consumer prices rose at an annual
4.9 percent pace in February, surpassing the government’s target
of 4 percent for 2011.  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028) , the country’s largest
refiner, gained 1.5 percent to HK$8.14 in Hong Kong trading.
Sinopec Shanghai Petrochemical Co. advanced 8.4 percent to
HK$3.76. PetroChina Co. fell 0.7 percent to HK$12.14. The  Hang
Seng Index (HSI)  declined less than 0.1 percent.  Narrows Refining Losses  The fuel-price increase narrowed domestic gross refining
losses to $2 a barrel from $10, the worst since October 2008,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “Similar to the first hike, it does not fully compensate
for higher crude prices,” JPMorgan’s Hong Kong-based oil
analysts Brynjar Eirik Bustnes and Sophie Tan said in an e-
mailed report.  Crude climbed to $108.83 a barrel in New York yesterday,
the highest settlement since Sept. 22, 2008, on concern that
conflict in Africa and the Middle East may curtail supplies.
Global  oil prices  may remain high, the NDRC said.  “As much as the government wants to not raise prices,
events in the Middle East have forced China into a corner,”  Ben Simpfendorfer , publisher of China Insider and former chief
economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, said by mobile
phone. “It’s a minor setback” in the fight against inflation.  Still Trails U.K.  While Chinese drivers started paying more at the pump than
U.S. counterparts around December 2008, they still pay half the
cost of drivers in Britain.  After today’s adjustment, gasoline in China will retail at
$1.05 a liter on average, according to Bloomberg calculations
based on prices set by the NDRC for the country’s provinces and
regions. That compares with $2.17 a liter in the  U.K.  and 97
cents a liter in the U.S.  Crude has advanced 29 percent in  New York  since Feb. 15,
when unrest in North Africa and the Middle East spread to  Libya ,
formerly Africa’s third-biggest oil producer. Futures fell 0.1
percent to $108.73 a barrel in electronic trading at 4:05 p.m.
Singapore time.  --Chua Baizhen, Winnie Zhu, Irene Shen, Wang Ying, John Duce.
With reporting by Margot Habiby in Dallas. Editors: Ryan Woo,
 Jane Lee .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Winnie Zhu in Shanghai at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jane Lee at 
 jalee@bloomberg.net . 