-- 
China Should Consider Targeting to Manage Inflation, ADB Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-06T04:26:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/china-s-growth-to-moderate-as-investment-pace-eases-adb-says.html
China should consider using
inflation targeting to manage expectations of increases in
consumer and asset prices, the  Asian Development Bank  said.  “Accelerating inflation and difficulties of managing the
high levels of bank liquidity suggest that some anchoring of
expectations might now be appropriate,” the Manila-based lender
said in its annual Asian Development Outlook published today.  The People’s Bank of China yesterday raised interest rates
for the fourth time in less than six months, reflecting the
government’s determination to curb inflation and surging
property prices that threaten social stability. Consumer-price
gains may accelerate to 4.6 percent this year from 3.3 percent
last year, the ADB estimated.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said last month the government aims to
keep inflation below 4 percent this year, a target that was
likely exceeded in the first quarter as food, housing and
commodity prices surged. Consumer-price gains in the world’s
second-biggest economy may have accelerated to 5.2 percent last
month from 4.9 percent in January and February, according to the
median estimate of 12 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  China ’s benchmark one-year deposit rate is now 3.25 percent
and the one-year lending rate is 6.31 percent after yesterday’s
increase of 25 basis points.  Inflation will ease in the second half of this year because
of the base effect of price increases in the same period a year
earlier and may slow to 4.2 percent next year due to a
moderation in global oil and commodity prices and tighter
monetary policy in China, the ADB said.  Central Bank Credibility  Given the central bank’s limited independence and
government controls on interest rates, adopting formal inflation
targeting would be premature, the ADB said. Still, the PBOC
“could consider some features of an anchoring system such as
announcing an explicit inflation objective or target range and
committing to achieve it for several years,” according to the
report.  The credibility of any central bank is “indispensable” in
inflation targeting so the PBOC would need full control over
managing its reserves, more leeway to liberalize  interest rates 
and greater exchange rate flexibility, the ADB said.  “Managing inflation expectations would also require it to
more clearly flag its monetary intentions to financial
markets,” according to the report.  China’s statistics bureau adjusted the weightings of the
components in its consumer-price index basket in January,
lowering the contribution of food and increasing the importance
of housing and utility costs.  Moderating Growth  “Despite this, the index is still seen as understating
inflation because its composition and weights have not been
significantly adjusted to reflect the major changes in
consumption patterns in the last decade,” the ADB said.  China’s growth will remain dependent on fixed-asset
investment over the next two years although the pace of
expansion will decelerate as the government’s fiscal stimulus
winds down and monetary policy is tightened, the ADB said in its
report.  Growth will moderate to 9.6 percent this year and 9.2
percent next year, it said. China expanded 10.3 percent last
year as it rebounded from the global financial crisis,
overtaking  Japan  as the world’s second-largest economy.  There’s “little risk of a hard landing” for the economy,
Paul J. Heytens, the ADB’s China country director, said at a
briefing in Beijing today. The nation’s medium-term growth
momentum is still good, with “robust” growth in industrial
production, retail sales and real-estate investment, he said.  Export Dependence  The world’s biggest exporter needs to curb its dependence
on overseas demand and spend more money on public services to
help rebalance its economy, the Manila-based bank said.  “The need to transform the pattern of economic growth is
stronger now” than in the previous five years, Changyong Rhee,
the ADB’s chief economist, said in the report. “Global
imbalances have become more pronounced and the recent global
recession highlighted the risk of heavy reliance on foreign
demand for growth.”  --Nerys Avery. With assistance from Zheng Lifei in Beijing.
Editors: Lily Nonomiya, Cherian Thomas  To contact Bloomberg news staff for this story:
Nerys Avery in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7558 or
 navery2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in  Hong Kong  at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  