-- 
Christie Says Obama Must ‘Get In and Lead’ to Stop Shutdown

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-04-06T23:56:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/christie-says-obama-must-get-in-and-lead-to-stop-shutdown-2-.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie 
said President  Barack Obama  needs to “get in and lead” to
avert a U.S. government shutdown as Congress grapples over a
spending plan.  Christie, a first-term Republican who prodded the state’s
Democratic-led Legislature to make $10 billion in cuts in the
current budget, said any disruption in the federal government
would be a failure by the president and lawmakers.  “It would be a failure of everyone involved, of the
Congress and the president, if they don’t get this done,”
Christie, 48, said in excerpts of an interview with “ABC World
News” scheduled to air today.  When asked by interviewer Diane Sawyer what he’d say to
Republicans calling for a government shutdown, Christie said:
“What I would say to all of them and I have a particular
message for the president: He should get in and lead and bring
them together.”  Republicans and Democrats in Congress are seeking to avoid
a budget impasse that may lead to the first closure of U.S.
government agencies in 15 years at the end of this week.  Obama invited Ohio Republican  John Boehner , speaker of the
 House of Representatives , and Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid ,
a Nevada Democrat, to meet with him and Vice President  Joe Biden 
on the budget tonight at the White House.  ‘Failure of Everybody’  Michael Drewniak , a spokesman for Christie, declined to say
whether the governor’s comments extended to Boehner or other
Republican leaders in Congress. He said the remark in the
interview “stands for itself.”  “Shutdown is a failure of everybody, including the
president,” Christie said. “Because in the end, we’re here to
stand up for principles, to say the things that we believe in,
but we’re also here to lead and run a government.”  Ben Dworkin, director of the Rebovich Institute of New
Jersey Politics at  Rider University  in Lawrenceville, said it
will be difficult for Christie to avoid getting “bogged down”
in partisan battles.  “He’s succeeded politically by being able to lay blame at
the feet of those who’ll be sitting across from him at the
negotiating table,” Dworkin said in an interview.  During the interview Christie also said he doesn’t plan to
challenge Obama for the White House in the 2012 election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  