-- 
Citigroup Barred From Adding Clients to Indonesian Wealth Management Unit

-- B y   F e m i   A d i   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-04-07T11:52:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/citigroup-to-cooperate-with-indonesian-wealth-management-probe.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the U.S. bank that
derives about half its profit from emerging markets, was
temporarily barred from adding wealth-management clients in
Indonesia amid a probe into fraud allegations.  The nation’s central bank questioned Citigroup executives
including the country head because of problems with its internal
controls, Bank Indonesia Governor Darmin Nasution told lawmakers
yesterday at a hearing in parliament. A Citigroup credit-card
holder’s death at its branch last month has also sparked a
review of debt-collection practices.  A Citigroup relationship manager allegedly stole 16.1
billion rupiah ($1.9 million) from three clients in 2009 and
2010 by using blank forms signed by the customers, National
Police Director for Economy and Special Crime Arief Sulistyanto
said in a statement e-mailed to Bloomberg. The bank filed a case
against the employee on March 14, he said.  “We have sent a letter to ask the bank to settle the
problems without causing further losses to customers, to improve
the internal controls and temporarily halt accepting new
Citigold customers,” Nasution said. The ban has been in effect
since March 16,  Bank Indonesia  deputy governor Halim Alamsyah
said at the hearing.  Citigroup has also been asked to halt adding new credit-
card customers, Difi Johansyah, a spokesman for Bank Indonesia,
said by e-mail today. Services to current customers will
continue, he said.  Customer’s Death  The prohibition on adding new clients to its wealth-
management unit may lead to a “huge loss,” Hotman Simbolon, a
vice president for customer care at New York-based Citigroup in
Jakarta, said yesterday. The bank on average was adding about
two customers a day with assets under management of 500 million
rupiah ($58,000) each, he said.  Citigroup has called customers that may be affected by the
alleged fraud and will return the stolen money, Shariq Mukhtar,
Citigroup’s  Indonesia  country head, said at a hearing on April
5.  The death of a credit-card customer at one of Citigroup’s
Jakarta branches last month has also triggered a review by
lawmakers.  The customer, who owed 68 million rupiah on his Citigold
card, died on March 29 while meeting with bank staff, Gatot Eddy
Pramono, head of the South Jakarta Police District, said at the
hearing yesterday. Four people are suspected of being involved
in the death, he said. Pramono declined to provide the results
of the autopsy.  Loan Waiver  An internal investigation into the death didn’t reveal any
physical violence, Citigroup’s Mukhtar said April 5. The bank
had been working with the client and had offered to waive as
much as 40 percent of the principal amount, he said.  The  U.S. bank  said it’s cooperating with investigators, and
the case of the alleged fraud by its staff isn’t interrupting
business with current clients.  “Our focus is on cooperating fully with all authorities to
bring the investigation to a conclusion and resolve the
matter,” Jon Diat, a spokesman for the bank in New York, said
in an e-mailed statement. “We understand it was said to be a
temporary measure, and has no impact on the services we offer
our existing Citigold customers.”  Under Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit , the New York-
based lender’s Asian consumer-banking unit made a $2.17 billion
profit last year, or about 20 percent of overall net income.
Citigroup’s Indonesian consumer bank had revenue of $354
million, according to a presentation Pandit gave last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Femi Adi in Jakarta at 
 fadi1@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 Dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 