-- 
Citigroup Boosts Commodity Investment Team to Tap Demand as Prices Surge

-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 
2011-04-06T10:52:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/citigroup-boosts-commodity-investment-team-to-tap-demand-as-prices-surge.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-largest
 U.S. bank  by assets, is seeking to expand its commodity
investment-product team by a third over the next two years to
tap growing demand as copper, gold and cotton rise to records.  The bank plans to add 10 people to the 30-strong group,
Iain Armitage, a managing director and London-based head of the
team, said in an interview in Singapore. Citigroup is also
setting up a commodity trading unit in  Shanghai , he said.  China 
is the world’s biggest user of raw materials.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., Barclays Plc and Citigroup are among
banks competing to sell products such as indexes to pension
funds, endowments and wealthy individuals as investors diversify
from stocks and bonds. The global economic outlook is bullish
for commodities and raw materials will continue to attract
investors because of growth in emerging markets and the risk of
higher inflation, Deutsche Bank AG said in a report March 30.  “Many investors have gone from thinking of commodities as
an optional asset class to start thinking about it being a
necessary part of their portfolios,” said Armitage, 38, who
started in his current job in 2006. “They are looking at ways
to increase allocation.”  Citigroup was the biggest recipient of U.S. taxpayer
bailout support in the 2008 financial crisis which bankrupted
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. The bank is hiring across its
commodity operations to profit from investment demand and
hedging requirements as crude oil and corn trade near their
highest levels since 2008 and silver reaches a 31-year high.  Hiring Progress  “People are looking at commodities as an asset class for
diversification,” said Walter “Bucky” Hellwig, who helps
oversee $17 billion at BB&T Wealth Management in Birmingham,
 Alabama . “Commodities have performed very well. Fundamentals
have supported the markets.”  The bank has hired Martin Lovegrove, an adviser to BP Plc,
as chairman of its global energy business to start in July.
Edward L. Morse will begin at the bank in May as global head of
commodities research, leaving a similar role at Credit Suisse
Group AG. Rob Biro joined the bank last year in Singapore from
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to head global oil trading.  The group started the Citi BRIC Commodities Index, a gauge
of raw materials based on consumption by  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India 
and China, a year ago. The index returned about 19 percent to
investors this year, the most among 52 indexes monitored by
Bloomberg News. The Citi CUBES GSCI-Weighted Index, introduced
in 2009, gained more than 16 percent and ranked second, beating
the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Enhanced Commodity Index.  Studying ETFs  The two Citi indexes have attracted more than $1 billion
each since their introduction, Armitage said. Many pension funds,
which invest in commodities via indexes and various kinds of
funds, often target a 5 percent and 8 percent allocation to
commodities, he said.  “Many of our clients have hired people dedicated to
commodities, instead of having a fixed income or equity guy
looking at them as a part-time job,” he said.  The bank is seeking to expand its commodity product
operations in  Asia , said Armitage, who was based in  Tokyo  for
five years as head of structured sales for  Japan  before
switching to commodities.  The Shanghai office will have access to Chinese exchanges
via a local broker, Armitage said. China, the top user of copper
and steel, restricts participation by foreign companies on its
bourses. Banks with offices dedicated to commodities in China
include Morgan Stanley and  Societe Generale .  Citigroup has looked at the introduction of exchange-traded
products backed by precious and industrial metals and has not
made a decision, Armitage said.  JPMorgan and BlackRock Inc. last year separately told the
U.S. Securities & Exchange Commission they plan to start
exchange-traded products backed by copper. Jersey-based ETF
Securities Ltd. has listed such products backed by copper,
nickel and tin in  London .  Gold for immediate delivery gained 0.4 percent to a record
$1,460.92 an ounce today and traded at $1,460.63 as of 6:50 p.m.
in  Singapore . Benchmark three-month copper advanced to $10,190 a
ton on Feb. 15, the highest ever, and traded at $9,542 today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  