-- 
McKinsey Work Lets Congo, Guyana Get Aid, Cut Trees, Greenpeace Says

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-04-07T14:13:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/mckinsey-work-lets-congo-guyana-get-aid-cut-trees-greenpeace-says.html
McKinsey & Co.  is helping rainforest
nations such as  Indonesia  and Guyana safeguard their logging
industry while gaining access to millions of dollars in funds
intended to protect trees, Greenpeace said.  Forest management plans by Guyana and the Democratic
Republic of Congo based on McKinsey advice include inflated
projections for logging rates, allowing them to claim aid for
undershooting those levels while increasing the number of trees
they chop down, Greenpeace, an environmental pressure group,
said in a report today. McKinsey said it stands behind its work
and disagrees with Greenpeace’s findings.  The report raises questions about a program that aims to
allow developing nations to tap at least $4.6 billion of forest
protection aid from donors including Norway and Britain.
Negotiators from more than 190 nations agreed to develop the
program, called Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest
Degradation, in December in  Mexico .  “REDD is supposed to prioritize the protection of natural
forests and McKinsey’s advice does the opposite,” Sarah
Shoraka, a U.K. campaigner for Greenpeace, said in a telephone
interview. “It could lead to increased deforestation and
increased emissions.”  Preventing deforestation is one of the key planks of the UN
program to combat global warming, since clearing trees that
absorb greenhouse gases increases the concentration of heat-
trapping substances in the atmosphere by about 17 percent.  Loggers Protected  McKinsey’s work for Papua New Guinea and Indonesia may
protect logging companies and hurt subsistence farmers,
Greenpeace said. Greenpeace, with its headquarters in Amsterdam,
says it has 2.8 million supporters and offices in 40 nations.  “This shows the difficulties involved in setting a
baseline for measuring avoided deforestation, which is one of
the key reasons why UN forestry talks have progressed slowly,”
said Marisa Beck, a carbon market analyst in London at Bloomberg
New Energy Finance. “Even small changes in the methodology
could have very large effects on the effectiveness of a
mechanism in achieving real climate protection and channeling
international funds to forest conservation in  developing
countries .”  Cost Curves  Part of the problem lies in  cost-curves  developed by
McKinsey that lay out the price of cutting emissions per ton of
carbon and the amount of  greenhouse gases  saved, which use
measures ranging from forestry to nuclear power and insulating
buildings, Greenpeace said. The assumptions underlying the curve
aren’t transparent enough to allow them to be checked,
Greenpeace said.  McKinsey said Greenpeace misinterpreted its work.  “We disagree with the report’s findings and stand firmly
behind our work and our approach,” McKinsey said in an e-mailed
statement. “In our work for public-sector clients, we provide a
fact-base on the emission-reduction potential from forestry and
land-use measures, which can be used to inform complex national
debates on equitable low-carbon economic growth strategies.”  Forests contain an estimated 638 billion tons of carbon,
more than all the carbon in the Earth’s atmosphere, according to
the UN Framework Convention on  Climate Change , which coordinates
the climate talks.  Rules and Negotiations  Negotiators are working to set rules to value emissions
savings made by reducing deforestation and channel funds from
donors to recipients. In the Cancun Agreements negotiated last
year in Mexico, envoys dropped a mention of an option that would
allow using carbon markets within the REDD program.  A December 2009  report  by the  Democratic Republic of Congo 
that cites “analytical support” by McKinsey suggests companies
should be paid for at least doubling logging rates by 2030
because that represents a cut from the tripling that would take
place under a business-as-usual scenario, Greenpeace said.  The study “clearly attempts to obscure the role of
industrial logging in destroying rainforests and to ensure a
future for the logging industry at the expense of small-scale
farming,” Greenpeace said. “Far from reducing and eventually
eliminating deforestation, it proposes a significant increase in
concessions.”  Congolese Environment Minister Jose Endundo said in a
telephone interview that allowing for industrial exploitation of
the forests can help protect them from illegal loggers.  Congo’s View  “We want to protect all the forests, and we want to do it
in a way that it gives financial benefits for Congo, creates
jobs and brings social benefits,” Endundo said. “We have
adopted the McKinsey scenarios, and we want to do better than
the scenarios described.”  Guyana’s  forest-protection plan involves the country being
paid to retain forests on the basis of their economic value if
they were cleared at a rate of 4.3 percent a year, about 20
times current levels, Greenpeace said.  For  Papua New Guinea , documents on which McKinsey worked
allow for commercial logging to continue and reject a moratorium
on new tree-felling concessions, according to the study.  “It is very complex to end rural poverty, reduce  carbon
emissions , conserve biodiversity and safeguard local and
indigenous community rights -- all simultaneously,” Papuan
climate change envy Kevin Conrad said in an e-mailed reply to
questions. While McKinsey helps collect and analyze data, the
consultant isn’t setting policy, which is “the sovereign
responsibility of the government and people of Papua New
Guinea,” he said.  Papua New Guinea  Greenpeace is also welcome to help his country devise
solutions for the fight against climate change, Conrad said.  A McKinsey cost-curve used by Indonesia is biased in favor
of protecting the interests of forestry and agricultural
businesses, Greenpeace said. The analysis makes it seem 30 times
cheaper to reduce emissions by displacing small farmers than by
stopping the spread of new plantations, according to the group.  “McKinsey studies repeatedly use tricks of data
presentation to protect or promote industrial logging and large-
scale agricultural interests at the expense of subsistence
farming,” Greenpeace said.  Indonesian Climate Ambassador Agus Purnomo declined in an
e-mail to comment on the study because he hasn’t seen it.
Indonesia’s REDD strategy hasn’t been finished, he said.  Guyana’s forestry commissioner, James Singh, didn’t reply
to an e-mail and telephone query to his office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  