-- 
Colombian Oil Auctions to Lure $4 Billion as Nation Attracts Slim, Batista

-- B y   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 
2011-04-06T18:01:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/colombian-oil-auctions-to-lure-4-billion-as-nation-attracts-slim-batista.html
Colombia  plans to open up unexplored
swathes of the country to  oil companies  at auctions that will
draw more than $4 billion in investments, Mines and Energy
Minister Carlos Rodado said.  South America’s third-largest producer aims to boost crude
output as it tries to tap rising demand from  China  and other
Asian nations, Rodado said in an interview. Colombia will hold
three auctions of oil exploration and production rights between
2012 and 2014, the nation’s oil regulator said yesterday.  Deposits in Colombia have attracted billionaires  Carlos
Slim  and  Eike Batista . Slim’s Grupo Carso SAB entered Colombia’s
oil market for the first time this year, while Batista plans
stock offerings for companies seeking to tap coal and gold
reserves. Mining and crude projects will contribute $44 billion
to government coffers in the five years to 2014, Rodado told
executives yesterday at an oil conference.  Slim and Batista “are already investing in Colombia, which
is the clearest display of confidence from big investors and
foreign capital,” Rodado said yesterday in the interview in
Cartagena, Colombia. “Colombia has become an attractive country
for foreign investment.”  Colombia aims to produce 1.7 million barrels of crude and
natural gas a day in 2020, “closing in” on Brazil, South
America’s second-largest producer after Venezuela, Rodado said.
Oil output reached a monthly record in March of 884,000 barrels
a day, most of which is produced by state-run  Ecopetrol SA. (ECOPETL)   Market ‘Niches’  While the U.S. is the biggest export market for Colombian
crude, the Andean nation is looking at how to tap demand in
China and other growing Asian countries, he said. To do so,
Colombia needs to improve infrastructure to carry its crude to
the nation’s Pacific Coast, Rodado said.  “Colombia is taking its first steps to capture market
niches” in  Asia , he said. “We obviously need to improve our
pipeline infrastructure.”  Increased security has opened new areas to oil and minerals
exploration in Colombia, where guerrilla groups still sabotage
pipelines and transmission towers. Pipelines owned by state-run
Ecopetrol have been sabotaged with explosives this year, while
the government said March 8 that 22 of 23 oil workers kidnapped
a day earlier in an eastern Colombian province were freed after
a military dragnet.  “Even though we are in a post-conflict, there is still a
threat,” Jack Scott, chief operating officer of oil exploration
company  Petrominerales Ltd. (PMG) , said in an interview yesterday in
Cartagena. “You don’t let your guard down.”  Investment Rating  A stronger economy and less violence helped Colombia earn
an investment-grade  credit rating  last month from  Standard &
Poor’s , which raised the rating one step to BBB- from BB+. The
increase put Colombia’s rating in line with Brazil and Peru.  Bogota-based Ecopetrol, which is controlled by the
government, will sell as much as a 9.9 percent share stake this
year, depending on investment needs, Rodado said. The government
will later sell stock to raise funds for infrastructure, pending
congressional approval, he said.  Military strikes reduced attacks on pipelines, roadways and
bridges to 76 in 2009 from more than 800 in 2002, according to
government figures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Walsh in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  