-- 
Colombia Reaches Labor Deal With U.S. to Advance Trade Pact

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-04-06T21:12:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/colombia-reaches-labor-deal-with-u-s-to-advance-trade-pact-1-.html
Colombia  agreed to rework labor laws
and crack down on violence against union organizers in a deal
with the Obama administration that clears the way for a free-
trade agreement to be considered by Congress.  President  Barack Obama  will now begin working with
lawmakers to get the Colombia trade accord approved, U.S. Trade
Representative Ron Kirk said on a conference call with reporters
today. Obama and Colombia’s President  Juan Manuel Santos , who is
in the U.S. this week, plan to meet in Washington tomorrow and
approve the labor measures.  Colombia must implement some of the new safeguards for
union organizers before the agreement will receive a vote in
Congress, Kirk said. The trade pact, signed in 2006, has
languished since Obama took office two years ago, as have
accords with  Panama  and South Korea.  “This sets the stage for enactment of all three free-trade
agreements in the next few months,” Karan Bhatia, vice
president in Washington for  General Electric Co. (GE)  and a former
deputy U.S. Trade Representative, said in an e-mail. “It is
important to U.S. exports, to U.S. jobs, and to the credibility
of the U.S. as an international trading partner.”  The trade agreement would boost U.S. shipments to Colombia
by $1.1 billion a year from $12 billion in 2010, according to
the U.S. International Trade Commission. For Colombia, the deal
would lock in unilateral trade privileges that are subject to
renewal by Congress, providing greater certainty to investors.
The preferences lapsed in February, dealing a blow to Colombian
textile makers and flower growers.  Chamber, Caterpillar  “This proves the  United States  can still lead on trade,”
 Tom Donohue , president of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the
nation’s largest business lobbying group, said today in a
statement.  Democrats in Congress and union officials criticized the
announcement, saying the provisions announced today won’t ensure
a reversal of Colombia’s history of violence against union
leaders and lack of protection for workers.  “The action plan does not go nearly far enough in laying
out concrete benchmarks for progress in the areas of violence
and impunity, nor does it address many of the ways in which
Colombian labor law falls short of international standards,”
 Richard Trumka , president of the AFL-CIO, the largest U.S. labor
federation, said in a statement. “There is no guarantee that
the terms of it will in fact lead to a reduction in violence,
and no backup plan to delay implementation if the violence and
impunity continue.”  ‘Rampant’ Violations  Representative Sander Levin of  Michigan , the top Democrat
on the House Ways and Means Committee, and six Democrats led by
Representative George Millerof California also said the deal
falls short.  “I am appalled that the administration is putting forward
this action plan as the answer to Colombia’s rampant human
rights and labor-rights violations,”Mike Michaud, a Maine
Democrat, said in a statement. “Undoing decades of systemic
violence and persecution in Colombia will take time.”  Under terms of the labor agreement, Colombia said it would
expand protections for union activists, clear a backlog of
assessments on risks to union members and direct the police to
assign 95 investigators to help prosecute cases of crimes
against union members. Colombia also will limit the use of
cooperatives, which let companies skirt union protections, and
double the number of labor inspectors in the next four years,
according to a fact sheet released by the U.S. trade office.  ‘Last Sprint’  “We’re entering the last sprint of the negotiations,”
said Mauricio Cardenas, an economist with the  Brookings
Institution  in  Washington  and former minister for economic
development in Colombia. “That list includes things that are
manageable for Colombia to adopt.”  Adriana Vargas, a spokeswoman traveling with Santos,
declined to comment.  The U.S. and Colombia, which exchanged about $27.7 billion
in trade last year, agreed to modifications of the labor and
environment provisions of the original agreement after demands
from Democratic lawmakers in 2007. President  George W. Bush 
tried a year later to force the Democratic Congress to vote for
the deal. They used a procedural maneuver to avoid a vote.  This year, Republicans such as House Speaker  John Boehner 
of  Ohio  threatened to block a deal with South Korea if the
Colombia agreement wasn’t sent to Congress. Senate Republican
leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky  said he would hold up
confirmation of a new Commerce secretary if a Colombia accord
isn’t moved.  ‘Very Good News’  “It is welcome news the administration has found agreement
with the Colombian government on how to proceed with this long-
overdue trade pact,” Boehner said in a statement.  The administration will work with Congress to determine the
timing for consideration of the agreements with  South Korea ,
Colombia and Panama, Michael Froman, the deputy national
security adviser, said on the conference call.  The accord with Panama is progressing as well, after its
government approved changes to its labor laws and submitted a
tax agreement with the U.S. to its legislature, Froman said.  The administration also wants Congress to renew lapsed aid
to workers harmed by foreign competition and trade preferences
for imports from Andean nations. Such aid will be part of the
discussion on getting the free-trade agreements approved, Froman
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  