-- 
Commerzbank Plans to Repay $20 Billion in State Aid Using Capital Increase

-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 
2011-04-06T14:48:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/commerzbank-to-redeem-20-billion-in-soffin-participations-in-capital-move.html
Commerzbank AG (CBK)  and  Intesa Sanpaolo
SpA (ISP) , the No. 2 banks in Germany and  Italy , plan to raise 13.25
billion euros ($19 billion), joining lenders tapping investors
in the aftermath of the global financial crisis.  Commerzbank, based in Frankfurt, aims to raise 8.25 billion
euros from investors as part of a plan to repay about 14.3
billion euros in state aid. Intesa intends to sell as much as 5
billion euros of new shares by July to bolster reserves, the
Milan-based lender said in a statement today.  Banks from Italy to Denmark to  Spain  are increasing
reserves as regulators tighten  capital requirements . Commerzbank
and Intesa led bank stocks higher in Europe, and the cost of
insuring European financial bonds dropped to the lowest in five
months on optimism the offerings will help banks pass stress
tests and stem contagion from Europe’s sovereign debt crisis.  “Investors are relieved as the uncertainty seems to be over
for now,” said Peter Braendle, a  fund manager  at Swisscanto
Asset Management AG in Zurich, which oversees about $62 billion.
“Everybody was waiting for this. There seems to be demand in the
market so there shouldn’t be a problem for banks to raise new
capital.”  Intesa climbed 6 percent to 2.26 euros by 4:44 p.m. in
Milan trading, for a market value of 28.6 billion euros.
Commerzbank jumped 3 percent to 5.77 euros in Frankfurt trading,
bringing its market value to 7.7 billion euros.  Spanish Banks  Credit-default swaps on Commerzbank’s subordinated debt
fell 43 basis points to 272, the lowest since November,
according to CMA. That helped drive the Markit iTraxx Financial
Index linked to the junior bonds of 25 banks and insurers down
25.5 basis points to 205.5 at 3:30 p.m. in  London .  New rules from the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision 
will require banks to more than double the reserves they hold by
2019. Financial companies in  Europe , the Middle East and Africa
may raise as much as $90 billion this year from equity sales,
compared with $70.6 billion last year, according to a February
estimate by Bank of America Corp.  In Spain, where savings banks are racing to raise funds to
meet capital requirements imposed by the government before a
September deadline, a group led by Caja  Madrid  said today it
plans to offload riskier assets such as foreclosed land into a
bad bank before an initial public offering. The IPO of the
entity, known as Bankia, is planned for “coming months,”
Chairman Rodrigo Rato said in Madrid.  The Bank of Spain told 12 lenders they need a combined 15.2
billion euros to meet minimum capital standards.  Danske, Deutsche  Danske Bank A/S,  Denmark ’s largest lender, raised 19.8
billion kroner ($3.8 billion) selling new shares, the
Copenhagen-based company said today, as it increased capital
before new international rules.  Deutsche Bank AG, Germany’s biggest bank, completed a
record 10.2 billion-euro share sale in October to fund the
takeover of Deutsche Postbank AG and bolster reserves. Chief
Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann  ruled out an additional
fundraising for the lender on April 1, saying his bank was
already “well capitalized.”  Deutsche Bank will seek shareholder approval at the annual
general meeting on May 26 for authority to sell 450 million new
shares, according to the agenda for the AGM published yesterday.
Based on yesterday’s closing share price of 41.90 euros, and
excluding any discount, Deutsche Bank could raise as much as
18.9 billion euros.  Return to Profit  Commerzbank plans to repay about 14.3 billion euros in
state aid by June through the proceeds of the stock sale and
with excess capital.  Germany ’s bank-rescue fund, Soffin, will
convert silent participations into 2.75 billion euros of shares,
the lender said in a statement today. The bank will also redeem
silent participations of 3.27 billion euros with excess
regulatory capital, it said.  “We have returned the bank to profitability one year
earlier than expected,” allowing the company to pay back almost
90 percent of the state aid, said Chief Executive Officer  Martin Blessing . “We intend to redeem the remaining sum of around 1.9
billion from excess capital by 2014 at the latest.”  The bank said in February that it wanted to redeem this
year a “significant” portion of the 16.2 billion euros it
received in silent participations from Soffin, which also bought
a 25 percent stake in the company. The lender needed the aid
after agreeing to buy  Dresdner Bank  amid the financial crisis.
Silent participations are a form of non-voting capital that
exists in Germany and was used by the government to recapitalize
lenders.  ‘Structurally Sound’  The bank will raise 11 billion euros from investors and
Soffin in two steps. Starting today, it will sell mandatory
exchangeable bonds that will turn into shares within about five
weeks. In a second step, the lender will conduct a rights
offering. Soffin will take part in both transactions and
maintain its stake of 25 percent plus one share. The amounts
raised in the two transactions will depend on demand.  “When investors see Commerzbank get a deal away it may
signify that these businesses may actually be structurally sound
and possibly look cheap under the right global growth
conditions,” said Jonathan Fayman, a fund manager at BlueBay
Asset Management Plc in London, which oversees about $38
billion.  ‘Ready’ for Basel  Commerzbank’s core Tier 1 ratio, a measure of financial
strength, will total 8.8 percent after the transaction. Intesa’s
core Tier 1 ratio will increase by 150 basis points following
its fundraising. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  “We are ready for Basel III and this also means we won’t
need an additional capital increase when the rules of Basel III
are being implemented,” Chief Financial Officer Eric Strutz said
in a television interview today. “I think that is good news for
current and future shareholders of Commerzbank.”  Intesa will sell common stock to owners of common and
savings shares and expects to complete the offering by July.  The share sale follows capital-raising plans by Banco
Popolare SC and Unione di Banche Italiane SCPA. Banca Monte dei
Paschi di Siena SpA may call a board meeting next week to
approve a 2 billion-euro rights offer, two people familiar with
the situation said yesterday.  “Intesa’s decision to raise capital arose to fully comply
with what is believed will become the ‘new normal’ for Basel III
in terms of capital, with a common equity ratio at 10 percent,”
CEO Corrado Passera told analysts today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in  Frankfurt  at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  