-- 
Cotton Futures Jump Most in Two Weeks in New York on U.S. Supply Concerns

-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y   a n d   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-04-06T20:34:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/cotton-futures-jump-most-in-two-weeks-in-new-york-on-u-s-supply-concerns.html
Cotton futures rose the most in two
weeks on speculation that the crop in the U.S., the world’s
leading exporter, was smaller than the government’s forecast in
March.  On April 8, the Department of Agriculture may say that
18.16 million bales were harvested, down from 18.32 million
projected in March, according to the average of five analysts in
a Bloomberg survey.  China  plans purchases to bolster reserves,
likely boosting demand for U.S. shipments, said  John Flanagan ,
the president of Flanagan Trading Corp. in Fuquay-Varina,  North
Carolina .  “People are worried about lower output in the U.S.,”
Flanagan said. “Demand is still strong, and we could see a new
high.”  Cotton for May delivery jumped by the limit of 7 cents, or
3.5 percent, to settle at $2.0806 a pound at 2:51 p.m. on ICE
Futures U.S. in  New York , the biggest gain since March 22. The
fiber rose to a record of $2.197 on March 7.  Adverse weather may delay the harvest in Australia, the
world’s fourth-largest exporter, according to Rabobank Australia
Ltd.  A USDA survey last month indicated U.S. farmers may sow
fewer acres than analysts expected.  “U.S. farmers will be planting less cotton this year, so
the market will be more sensitive to any weather disruptions in
other major producers,” said Justine White, an analyst at VM
Group in  London . “Any changes in consumption estimates and
stock levels which are seen as even slightly bullish could see
the market surge higher.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  