-- 
CQS Sees Expanding U.S. Participation in European Distressed-Debt Market

-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k   a n d   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 
2011-04-06T15:13:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/cqs-sees-growing-u-s-investor-presence-in-europe-distressed-debt-market.html
CQS U.K. LLP, which oversees $10.5
billion, is buying more European distressed debt and expects
hedge funds and private-equity firms to pursue similar
investments as profit opportunities in the U.S. fade.  “We are allocating more capital to Europe,” Mark Unferth,
CQS’s head of distressed debt, said in an interview in  London .
“You will see more U.S. distressed funds in Europe.”  Efforts by European governments to cut spending, the
region’s uneven economic recovery and rising inflation are
putting pressure on non-investment grade companies to
restructure their debt.  Standard & Poor’s  said last month that
the refinancing risk for highly indebted European corporate
borrowers could produce a wave of defaults in 2012 and 2013.  Howard Marks, chairman of Los Angeles-based Oaktree Capital
Management LLC, said in March the $82 billion money  manager
plans to increase investments in European distressed assets as a
price rally eroded the return outlook for U.S. corporate debt.
New York-based Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. is also expanding
such investments.  HSBC Alternative Investments Ltd., which has about $28
billion invested in hedge funds, is allocating more money to
managers who buy distressed debt in  Europe  after concluding that
a price rally has eroded investment opportunities in the U.S.,
Tim Gascoigne, the London-based firm’s global head of  portfolio
management , said last month.  ‘Dribs and Drabs’  European distressed-debt funds have recorded an average
return of 3.6 percent this year and 8.7 percent for all of 2010,
according to Eurekahedge Pte, a Singapore-based data provider.
That compares with returns of 4.9 percent and 28.2,
respectively, for the same periods for funds in  North America .  “The European cycle is behind the U.S. by anywhere between
12 to 18 months,” said Unferth, who is based in  New York . “We
will start to see European banks selling their distressed
assets. Are we going to see a flood or is it going to be more
dribs and drabs? It’s probably going to be somewhere in
between.”  CQS sees opportunities in European chemical companies,
retailers hurt by a decrease in  consumer spending  and auto-parts
suppliers, Unferth said. European firms facing restructuring are
typically “reasonably good companies with inappropriate balance
sheets,” he said.  CQS is a London-based hedge fund founded in 1999 by Michael Hintze, a former Credit Suisse Group AG convertible-bond banker.
It invests in distressed assets through a $60 million fund
raised last year, and other fund strategies. The CQS Distressed
Value Opportunities Fund gained 8.2 percent through February,
according to the company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  