-- 
Croatia to Hold More Tenders in Tourism Projects This Quarter

-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 
2011-04-06T10:26:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/croatia-to-hold-more-tenders-in-tourism-projects-this-quarter.html
Croatia  will offer tenders this
quarter for projects in tourism and infrastructure to create
jobs and revive economic growth, Deputy Prime Minister Domagoj Milosevic said.  Investors are needed to develop resorts at the Bay of
 Pineta , the island of  Sveta Katarina , a defunct military complex
near the city of  Pula  and three projects worth a total of 350
million euros ($500 million) on the Istrian peninsula near the
 Brijuni Islands , Milosevic said.  “We are beginning to see the results of our recent
investment drive,” Milosevic said in an interview in Dubrovnik,
Croatia, during an international investment forum. “We will
continue to remove obstacles investors face, and build on
Croatia’s position as a bridge between markets in Western and
Eastern Europe.”  Other tenders to be offered this quarter include the
thermal plant Plomin 3 in coastal Croatia, with a value
estimated at 800 million euros, railroad links and hydro-
electric plants, Milosevic said.  Croatia’s economy will expand for the first time since 2008
and grow an estimated 1.5 percent this year, according to a
government estimate in November. The country is in the final
stage of negotiations with the European Union and aims to join
the bloc in 2012.  The government launched an economic recovery program in
April 2010 and has offered incentives to boost foreign direct
investment, which dropped 30 percent in the first nine months of
last year.  Milosevic in December started a new ministry to tackle
problems investors face, including high fees, slow bureaucracy
and corruption.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  