-- 
Crouch Apologizes After His Red Card Sparks Tottenham's 4-0 Loss in Madrid

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-04-06T00:27:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/crouch-apologizes-after-sending-off-sparks-tottenham-s-4-0-loss-in-madrid.html
Tottenham’s  Peter Crouch  apologized
to teammates after his 15th-minute ejection precipitated a
4-0 loss at Real Madrid in their Champions League soccer
quarterfinal opener.  The England striker got two yellow cards in seven minutes
last night with Real leading 1-0 at the Santiago Bernabeu.
Emmanuel Adebayor added a second headed goal before Angel di
Maria and  Cristiano Ronaldo  scored in the last 18 minutes.  Crouch “apologized to the lads” in the locker room, Spurs
captain  Michael Dawson  told reporters. “We all tried to give
our all but it didn’t really go to plan. Going down to 10 men
against a team like Real Madrid is always going to be hard.”  The return match is at White Hart Lane in north  London  on
April 13, when record nine-time European champion Real will try
to secure a semifinal spot for the first time since 2003.  Real is on course for a matchup against Barcelona in the
final four should its archrival beat  Shakhtar Donetsk  in another
two-game quarterfinal that starts today at Camp Nou.  The 1.98-meter (6-foot-5) Crouch lunged at  Sergio Ramos ,
upending the Real defender to get his first yellow card, and
seven minutes later mistimed his sliding challenge on Marcelo to
earn the red card.  “Peter Crouch lost his way a bit,” said Real coach  Jose Mourinho , who patted the striker on the back as he left the
field. Crouch, who scored the only goal in the round-of-16 clash
with AC Milan, left the stadium without speaking to reporters.  Mourinho said that the dismissal conditioned the game.  ‘Impossible Mission’  “At this level it’s very difficult to play for so long
with 10,” Mourinho told a news conference, adding it was an
“impossible mission” for an attacking team like Spurs.  Adebayor, a former Arsenal striker who’s on loan from
 Manchester City , had made it 1-0 when Luka Modric failed to
clear his downward header off the goal line.  Tottenham resisted and Gareth Bale had its best chance
after 30 minutes when he raced into the penalty box and fired
into the side-netting.  “For the first half I thought we did fantastic with 10
men, we had a couple of good opportunities on the break, but we
ran out of steam,” Spurs manager  Harry Redknapp  told reporters.  Referee Felix Brych waved away a Real penalty appeal when
Dawson appeared to block Di Maria’s shot on the edge of the box
with his arm just before half time.  Adebayor, unmarked in the penalty box, made it 2-0 in the
second half with a looping header from Marcelo’s cross. The
1.91-meter (6-foot-3) Togolese striker, nicknamed “Manolito,”
the Spanish diminutive for Manuel, received a standing ovation
when he was substituted with 13 minutes left.  “I got chills when I heard the Bernabeu chant Manolito,
Manolito,” Adebayor said.  Late Goals  Real made sure of the victory with what Dawson called
“world class” strikes by Di Maria and Ronaldo. Di Maria cut
inside from the wing and hit a 20-yard left-foot shot into the
top corner of the net after 72 minutes.  Ronaldo, playing his first match since injuring his
hamstring March 19, volleyed Kaka’s cross into the net from 10
yards with three minutes left.  Redknapp said he was “disappointed” by Crouch’s
dismissal, which had left Spurs facing an “impossible task”
last night and with a slim chance of advancing.  “It’s never over until it’s over and you never know,
though obviously we’ve got a mountain to climb,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  