-- 
Crude Oil Rises to 30-Month High in N.Y. as NATO Escalates Libya Strikes

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-04-06T19:50:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/crude-oil-futures-pares-gains-after-u-s-government-releases-supply-report.html
Crude rose to a 30-month high as
NATO escalated its air campaign over  Libya , bolstering concern
the conflict will spread to other energy-exporting countries in
the region.  Futures climbed 0.5 percent after the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization planned to fly 198 missions over Libya today,
following 155 yesterday. Prices have advanced this year as
unrest spread from  Tunisia  to  Egypt , Libya, Yemen, Bahrain and
 Syria .  Elections  in Nigeria this month may lead to decreased
output from  Africa ’s top crude-producing country.  “Fears about supply from Libya and the Middle East are
pushing us higher,” said Sean Brodrick, a natural resource
analyst with  Weiss Research  in Jupiter,  Florida . “The situation
in Libya may be getting worse and could easily drag on for
months. There are also elections in Nigeria, which could further
disrupt supply.”  Crude oil for May delivery rose 49 cents to $108.83 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest
settlement since Sept. 22, 2008. Prices are up 25 percent from a
year ago.  Brent oil for May settlement increased 8 cents to end the
session at $122.30 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. It was the highest settlement price since Aug.
1, 2008.  Prices dropped as much as 0.6 percent earlier today when
the U.S. Energy Department reported that crude oil stockpiles
climbed 1.95 million barrels to 357.7 million. A 2 million-
barrel gain was projected, according to the median estimate of
15 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey.  10-Minute Move  “We moved on the inventory numbers for about 10 minutes
before switching our focus to something else because there are
larger issues swirling around the marketplace now,” said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in  New
York .  Oil supplies at Cushing,  Oklahoma , where the New York-
traded West Texas Intermediate grade is delivered, slipped
16,000 barrels to 41.9 million in the week ended April 1,
according to the department. Stockpiles in the previous week
were at the highest level since the government began keeping
records at the hub in 2004.  “There’s plenty of crude oil out there” said Philip Silverman, a principal at Kingsview Management LLC, a commodity
trading adviser in New York. “Inventories aren’t the most
important factor in the market right now. The situation in the
Middle East threatens supply.”  Running Battles  Rebels who are aiming to end Muammar Qaddafi’s 42-year rule
and forces loyal to the Libyan leader have been waging battles
between the Qaddafi stronghold of Sirte and the rebel-held city
of Ajdabiyah. French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe called the
situation on the ground “confused” and said pilots are having
difficulty targeting because both sides use similar trucks.  NATO is slow “in responding to our instructions” on
targets and failing to “give us what we need,” Abdel Fattah Younes, head of the Libyan rebel army, said at a press
conference yesterday in the eastern city of Benghazi.  The rebels were preparing to make their first international
oil sale as the tanker Equator, which can carry 1 million
barrels, departed the Marsa al Hariga terminal near the port of
Tobruk in rebel-held eastern Libya, according to ship-tracking
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Nigerian Ballot  Nigerian output may decline after the presidential election
takes place on April 16, curbing supplies of the light, low-
sulfur grades that have already been curtailed because of
fighting in Libya. Oil production dropped 85,000 barrels to 1.92
million barrels a day in March, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  More than 50 people have died in election-related violence
in  Nigeria  since July, according to  Amnesty International , while
sectarian clashes in the north have claimed the lives of at
least 200 since Dec. 24.  World oil markets are “adequately supplied” and prices
reflect unrest in the Middle East and the disaster in  Japan ,
according to United Arab Emirates Energy Minister Mohamed Al- Hamli.  “The surge in  oil prices  is a reflection of geopolitics
and natural disaster but not the fundamentals,” he said today
at an oil conference in Paris. “They are in good shape.”  Gasoline inventories fell 357,000 barrels to 216.7 million
last week, the Energy Department said. Supplies were forecast to
drop by 1.9 million barrels, the survey showed. Demand for the
motor fuel slipped 1 percent to 8.91 million barrels a day over
the past four weeks, and is 1.2 percent lower than a year ago.  ‘The Real Bear’  “Gasoline was the real bear in today’s report,” said Jason Schenker, president of Prestige Economics, an energy advisory
firm in Austin,  Texas . “Not only were inventories down less
than expected, but demand dropped.”  Gasoline for May delivery slipped 0.84 cent, or 0.3
percent, to settle at $3.1929 a gallon in New York. It was the
first decline in seven sessions.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 467,873
contracts as of 3:10 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 523,365
contracts yesterday, 36 percent below the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.57 million contracts, the
highest level since March 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  