-- 
Crude ‘Marie and Bruce’ Reveals Marriage Made in Hell: Review

-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 
2011-04-06T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/crude-marie-and-bruce-reveals-marriage-made-in-hell-review.html
There’s talk of brutish sex,
bestiality, urinary infections and excrement in “Marie and
Bruce.”  Fortunately, given its high cringe quotient, Wallace Shawn’s 1978 absurdist comedy, revived by the  New Group , is all
talk and no action.  “Let me tell you something,” says Marie (Marisa Tomei)
addressing the audience as she rises from bed in her nightgown.
“I find my husband so God damned irritating that I’m planning
to leave him. And that’s a fact.”  “Yes, I’m sick of you!” she shrieks to spouse Bruce
(Frank Whaley), whose hair stands on end, Peter Sellars-style.
“Do you get it? You’re driving me insane! I can’t stand living
with you for one more minute!”  The action, such as it is, shifts from the bedroom to a
party of fatuous urbanites to a cafe. Bruce takes Marie’s wrath
in stride. “Well, don’t be irritable, darling,” he gurgles.
Later, he recounts in all-too-graphic detail his memorable
assignation 20 years earlier with another woman.  Sex has seldom been less tasty than in this 105-minute
talkfest. Be warned: There’s no intermission to stage a getaway.  Tomei is appropriately shrill and distraught at the
opening, easing into a gradual calm as we learn that this is
just another day in her marriage. Whaley is less convincing in a
role that’s cartoonish and repellent.  Scott Elliott directs with finesse, most evident in a
dinner party scene that’s set on a revolving stage and
punctuated by snippets of “Rapture” by Blondie.  Through May 7 at 410 W. 42nd St. Information: +1-239-6200;
 http://www.thenewgroup.org 
Rating: *  (Philip Boroff is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Philip Boroff in  New York  at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 