-- 
Cubist, Apple, Lottery, Lime Wire: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-04-06T11:01:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/cubist-smokefree-lottery-lime-wire-intellectual-property.html
Cubist Pharmaceuticals Inc. agreed
to license its antibiotic Cubicin to  Teva Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , resolving a patent dispute.  Teva can start selling its generic version in June 2018 if
Cubist is granted a six-month extension of marketing protection
for pediatric use, Lexington, Massachusetts-based Cubist said
yesterday in a statement. The patent is due to expire in
September 2019. Without pediatric clearance, Teva may sell
Cubicin starting in December 2017.  “We believe shares will reflect the removal of a major
overhang and could trade higher over time, especially as Cubicin
sales begin growing again and the Street begins credit to its
pipeline,”  Jason Kantor , an analyst with RBC Capitol Markets in
 San Francisco , said in a note to clients.  Cubicin is Cubist’s only approved product, with $600
million in U.S. sales last year. Chief Executive Officer Mike Bonney anticipates the medicine will generate $1 billion in U.S.
revenue before Teva’s version goes on sale, he said March 4 in a
phone interview.  Bonney said in a conference call following the announcement
that the settlement would better allow the company to work with
others to develop its business.  “We’ve eliminated for them the uncertainty about what sort
of runway Cubist has,” Bonney said.  Cubist’s intravenous antibiotic is used to treat skin
infections caused by drug-resistant microorganisms. Under the
agreement, Teva will buy its U.S. requirements of active
ingredient daptomycin from Cubist for the period of the license.  Cubist will also get a percentage of Teva’s gross profits
from sales of the drug under the agreement. Bonney, in a
conference call, wouldn’t disclose the details of either the
gross sales or materials-supply agreements.  If another generic maker successfully sues Cubist and
enters the market, Teva could start selling the drug as soon as
the other generic maker did, according to the agreement between
Cubist and Teva, Bonney said.  Denise Bradley, a spokeswoman for Teva, declined to
comment.  The case is  Cubist Pharmaceuticals Inc. (CBST) , v. Teva Parenteral
Medicines Inc., 1:09-cv-00189-GMS, U.S. District Court, District
of Delaware (Wilmington).  Apple Patent Case Against Unlicensed Accessory Makers Goes Ahead  Apple Inc.’s patent infringement suit against makers of
unlicensed accessories for the company’s iPod, iPhone and iPad
devices can proceed, a federal judge ruled yesterday.  The iPad maker sued eForCity Corp. and six other companies
in federal court in San Jose, California, in July 2010 for
infringing nine patents. Most defendant companies are related
and are located in El Monte, California, according to court
papers.  Apple said in its complaint that the companies weren’t
participants in its “Made for iPod” program, and were
producing products of “inferior quality and reliability,
raising significant concerns over compatibility with and damage
to Apple’s products.”  EForCity and its related companies argued that the court
needed to strike allegations that were “redundant, immaterial,
impertinent or scandalous.” Apple included in its complaint
negative remarks a consumer made about one of the allegedly
infringing products.  Those remarks had no essential relationship to Apple’s
claims, eForCity argued. The court agreed and said they should
be removed.  The infringement case stands, despite eForCity’s argument
that it was procedurally improper. U.S. District Judge Jeremy
Fogel said Apple properly stated its claims in its complaint.  The case is  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  v. eForCity Corp., 10-3216, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (San Jose).  Smokefree Gets European Patent on Electronic Cigarette Device  Smokefree Innotec Inc. (SFIO) , a maker of electronic cigarettes,
received a European patent for its smokeless cigarettes, the Las
Vegas-based company said in a  statement .  The patent covers a smoking device, a means of charging the
device and a method of using it.  Smokefree also has a published and pending U.S. patent
application covering the same technology. According to that
application, this invention is a “smoking product that would
considerably reduce the negative effects of the so called
second-hand smoking.”  The technology is aimed at providing an alternative means
for smoking, which significantly reduces the negative side
effects of smoking like second-hand smoking and ash.  Smokefree anticipates that this invention will eliminate
smoke resulting from the act of consuming the smoking device.  This will “yield a wider acceptance from the nonsmoking
population, thus allowing smokers to consume such smoking
devices even in areas where smoking in the classical meaning is
forbidden,” Smokefree said in its patent application,
20100307518.  The company applied for the U.S. patent in November 2009,
according to the application. The  Speckman Law Group  of Seattle
is assisting with the application process.  In an April 4 statement, Smokefree said its product is in
the final production stage and will be released to the public
within weeks.”  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Georgia   High Court  Hears State Lottery Trademark Case  Georgia’s  Supreme Court  heard oral arguments Aug. 4 in a
trademark case involving the state lottery.  The case was brought in Fulton County, Georgia, in February
2008 by two men who claimed they had the right to the name
“MoneyBag$” used by the lottery and sought $4.5 million in
compensation. They had registered the mark and used it with a
game they created.  The lower court kicked out the case on the grounds that the
state can’t be sued and determined that  the Georgia Lottery
Corp.  was a state agency,  according to Associated Press . The men
asked the high court to reconsider the issue.  The two men -- George Kyle Jr. and Frank Mankovitch -- are
represented by  Angelo Todd Merolla  of Atlanta’s  Merolla & Gold
LLP .  The state is represented by William Wright Banks Jr.,
Sherreen M. Walls, R.O. Lerer and Samuel S. Olens of the Georgia
Department of Law, and  Bradley James Harrison  and  Mark. S.
VanderBroek  of Atlanta’s  Troutman Sanders LLP .  The lower court case is Kyle v. Georgia Lottery Corp.,
20008-cv-147029, Georgia Superior Court, Fulton County
(Atlanta). The Supreme Court case is Kyle v. Georgia Lottery
Corp., S10G1808, Supreme Court of Georgia (Atlanta).  Bollywood’s Salman Khan Rejects Product-Placement Uniform  Although Bollywood actor  Salman Khan  was offered 70 million
rupees ($1.75 million) to wear the uniform of a particular
security firm in his upcoming film “Bodyguard,” he refused all
offers out of loyalty to one of his employees, IC Tech News
 reported .  He received offers from as many as five firms and has said
he will go with none of them, and will instead wear the same
uniform worn by his bodyguard from the Shera agency, according
to IC Tech News.  The film is a Hindi-language remake of a film with a
similar name that was made in the Malayam language, according to
IC Tech News.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Ford, Microsoft, Volvo Pay for Customer Access to Web Content  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Volvo AB (VOLVB)  are among
companies paying for customers to have access to digital
content, such as the  New York  Times, Advertising Age reported.  Ford offered a free route over the Times’ newly established
paywall to 200,000 people; Volvo is picking up the cost of one
month of access to Major League Baseball’s live game video; and
Microsoft is paying for a month of the Hulu Plus video service
to those who’ve downloaded the latest version of Internet
Explorer, according to the magazine.  These are pricey deals, given that each user is worth
between $25 and $150, Ad Age said.  Ken Doctor , a media analyst for  Outsell Inc.,  told Ad Age
the sponsorship agreements help lure customers into the new pay
environments.  Lime Wire Judge Limits Copyright Damages Labels Can Seek  A federal judge limited the number of recordings for which
music labels can seek monetary damages in the copyright
infringement case against website Lime Wire LLC.  U.S. District Judge  Kimba Wood  said that the record labels
can’t demand statutory damages for each individual song that
appears on an album, according to a filing yesterday in
 Manhattan . A trial for damages is to begin May 2.  Wood found Lime Wire and its founder,  Mark Gorton , liable
for inducing copyright infringement last year. The Lime Wire
website allowed users, without authorization from copyright
owners, to download recordings and share them with others on
their computers. As the case has moved into the damages phase,
each side is trying to increase or limit the number of
recordings liable for monetary awards.  Total damages could reach hundreds of millions of dollars,
according to court papers.  Music labels, including  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s Arista Records and
 Warner Music Group Corp. (WMG) ’s Atlantic Records, have identified
11,205 recordings that they say Lime Wire users infringed, and
said they’ll seek statutory damages for 9,715. Copyright law
allows statutory damages of up to $150,000 per infringed work,
which meant a possible liability of more than $1 billion.  Wood said that an album constitutes one infringed work. The
exception to that is a track from the album released as a single
recording to be sold through Apple Inc.’s iTunes or some other
retailer.  Wood ruled in March that the labels were entitled to only
one statutory damage award for each work infringed, regardless
of how many people downloaded the recording. The labels’ demands
could have meant damages of trillions of dollars, which she said
was an “absurdity.”  Wood ordered the labels to submit their final list of
recordings by April 15.  Lime Wire was ordered last year to shut down its music
file-sharing site.  The case is Arista Records LLC v. Lime Wire LLC, 06-05936,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  McGlinchey Stafford Hires Patent Specialist Robert Pippenger  McGlinchey Stafford PLLC  hired Robert S. Pippenger for its
Baton Rouge,  Louisiana , IP practice, the New Orleans-based firm
said in an e-mailed statement.  Pippenger , who previously practiced at  Shumaker, Loop &
Kendrick LLP  of Toledo, Ohio, does patent-application work. He
has represented clients in the chemical, biotechnical, solid-
state and mechanical industries. He has prepared plant patent
applications for clients in the nursery and ornamental
horticulture industries. He has also done patent-portfolio
development work for universities and corporations.  He has an undergraduate degree in chemistry/biological
sciences from Cornell University, a master’s degree in physical
chemistry from the University of Pennsylvania and a law degree
from Vanderbilt University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California ,
at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 