-- 
Cuomo Repeats Threat to Dismiss 10,000 N.Y. State Workers

-- B y   M i c h a e l   Q u i n t
-- 
2011-04-06T16:58:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/cuomo-repeats-threat-to-dismiss-10-000-n-y-state-workers-1-.html
Governor  Andrew Cuomo , who produced
New York’s first on-time budget in five years last week, is
standing by his threat to fire almost 10,000 workers unless they
agree to provide the state with $450 million of savings.  Labor contracts that increased state workers’ pay almost 14
percent over four years expired March 31, 10 days after formal
negotiations with unions began. Cuomo has said he spoke with
labor leaders about his goals before talks started.  “Negotiations are ongoing and obviously if we don’t reach
an agreement, we would need to proceed with layoffs,” said
Joshua Vlasto, a spokesman for Cuomo, in a telephone interview
today.  Cuomo, a 53-year-old Democrat, reached agreement with top
lawmakers March 27 to close a $10 billion gap in the $132.5
billion budget. The Legislature approved the plan March 31, a
day before the start of the fiscal year. Included in the package
is a wage freeze on the base pay of about 130,000 workers the
governor controls and $450 million in additional labor savings.  Cost cuts sought by Cuomo may come from increasing workers’
share of health-care spending, freezing automatic pay increases
based on longevity and changing rules for overtime, Howard Glaser, an adviser to the governor and director of state
operations, said at a March 3 legislative hearing in  Albany .  ‘Back Off’  If there is no agreement with unions, worker dismissals may
begin soon after the April 1 start of the fiscal year, he said
then. Changing health benefits may produce savings that exceed
New York’s goal by a third, Glaser said.  “It would be helpful for them to back off on the layoff
threat until we have a chance to have some conversations,” said
Stephen Madarasz, a spokesman for the  Civil Service Employees
Association , the largest state workers’ union, which represents
about 66,000 employees. “They only began negotiating really two
weeks ago.”  U.S. governors face deficits totaling as much as $112
billion in the coming fiscal year, according to the Washington-
based  Center on Budget and Policy Priorities.   To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Quint in Albany,  New York , at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  