-- 
Daimler, Rolls Start Tognum Tender as Stock Overshoots Offer

-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 
2011-04-06T07:37:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/daimler-rolls-start-tognum-tender-as-stock-overshoots-offer.html
Daimler AG (DAI)  and  Rolls-Royce Group Plc (RR/) 
started their public tender for German engine manufacturer
 Tognum AG (TGM) , pressing ahead with their original offer even as the
stock hovers above the bid price.  Tognum shareholders can tender shares beginning today and
have until May 18 to decide whether to sell, Stuttgart, Germany-
based Daimler said today in a  statement .  Daimler, the world’s second-biggest maker of luxury cars,
and Rolls-Royce, the No. 2 maker of  aircraft engines , are
offering 24 euros a share for Tognum, valuing it at 3.2 billion
euros ($4.6 billion), or about 4.8 percent less than its market
value today. Investors have speculated the proposal will be
raised, pushing the stock above the bid ever since Tognum said
on March 9 that it hadn’t agreed with Daimler and Rolls-Royce on
a price.  “The offer may be enough to get more than 50 percent of
the shares, but certainly isn’t enough to get all the stock,”
said Wolfgang Fickus, a Dusseldorf, Germany-based analyst with
WestLB. “The fair value is above 24 euros.”  Daimler, the maker of Mercedes-Benz cars and trucks, and
London-based Rolls-Royce, whose engines power Airbus SAS and
Boeing Co. planes, aim to hold firm with their offer. Daimler’s
28.4 percent stake in Tognum allows it to block efforts by other
potential suitors. Shareholders with more than 25 percent of any
German company have the power to veto major strategic moves.  March 4 Value  Tognum rose as much as 0.5percent to 25.70 euros and was up
less than 0.1 percent at 25.58 euros as of 9:34 a.m. in
Frankfurt trading, valuing the company at 3.36 billion euros.
The bid is 30 percent higher than Tognum’s March 4 closing
price, the last trading day before the prospective buyers
expressed interest.  The company’s management and supervisory boards will review
the “adequacy” of the offer and comment “in due course,”
Julie Loeffelsend, a spokeswoman for Friedrichshafen-based
Tognum, said today by phone.  ING Groep NV (INGA) ’s investment management unit, which holds
9 percent of Tognum, has said the offer was “too low” and
called on management to reject it.  Daimler Chief Financial Officer Bodo Uebber said on March
14 that he sees no reason to raise the price, which the
prospective buyers consider “fair value” for Tognum. The offer
is conditioned on more than 50 percent of the stock being
tendered. Daimler has pledged its holding.  Dividend Pledge  Tognum has appointed  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  to
review the bid.  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  will act as the tender’s
settlement agent for Daimler and London-based Rolls-Royce.
Shareholders who tender stock will still get to keep Tognum’s
proposed dividend of 50 cents per share, Daimler said today.  Gaining control of Tognum, which Daimler once owned, would
give the two companies the world’s second-largest maker of high-
speed diesel engines for the marine, energy and defense
industries after Caterpillar Inc. Rolls-Royce plans to integrate
its Bergen business, which makes gasoline and diesel engines for
ships and power generators, with Tognum after the deal.  In a March 21 letter to Tognum Chief Executive Officer
Volker Heuer and Chairman Rolf Eckrodt, ING proposed a
“takeout” value of 30 euros to 32 euros a share, including a
value of 3 euros per share for the Rolls-Royce operations that
would be combined with Tognum.  Daimler sold Tognum, then called MTU Friedrichshafen, for
1.6 billion euros to Stockholm-based private equity firm EQT
Partners to help pay for reorganizing Chrysler in March 2006,
when it still owned the U.S. carmaker.  After an initial public offering by Tognum at 24 euros a
share in July 2007, Daimler bought a 22 percent stake for 585
million euros in April 2008, increasing the holding to more than
25 percent three months later.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  