-- 
Deepwater Horizon Blowout Gear Was Overdue for Maintenance

-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 
2011-04-06T20:52:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/deepwater-horizon-blowout-gear-was-overdue-for-maintenance-2-.html
The blowout preventer that failed on
a  BP Plc (BP/)  well last year, leading to the worst U.S. offshore oil
spill, was four years overdue for maintenance under driller
 Transocean Ltd. (RIG) ’s internal guidelines, a U.S. regulator said.  The Deepwater Horizon’s blowout preventer hadn’t been
disassembled and refurbished since the rig was commissioned in
2001, Jason Mathews of the U.S. Bureau of Ocean Energy
Management, Regulation and Enforcement, said today during an
investigative hearing in Metairie,  Louisiana .  Under Transocean’s rules, the blowout preventer should have
been overhauled no later than the summer of 2006, Mathews said.
The preventer is a 300-ton stack of valves and pipes designed to
stop an oil well from surging out of control.  The blowout preventer’s blades failed to sever and seal the
pipe from BP’s Macondo well during the April 2010 disaster that
killed 11 rig workers, sank the vessel and spewed enough crude
into the sea to fill two supertankers, according to a study
commissioned by a joint U.S. Coast Guard-Interior Department
panel. Mathews is one of eight members of the panel.  The blowout preventer wasn’t in need of an overhaul,
Michael Fry, a Transocean manager who oversees subsea equipment
used on all of the company’s Gulf of Mexico rigs, told the
panel.  “If it’s not found to be outside its operating tolerances,
that piece of equipment stays in service,” Fry said in response
to questioning by Mathews. “There’s not a reason to send it to
the shop for a major overhaul if there’s nothing wrong with the
equipment.”  Study Results  Fry testified today that if there had been any indications
that the blowout preventer was defective, the senior Transocean
manager aboard the Deepwater Horizon, Jimmy Harrell, would have
halted drilling operations and called for help.  “If Jimmy thought there was anything wrong with the BOP,
he would have shut it down,” Fry said.  A study of the blowout preventer, carried out by Det Norske
Veritas, concluded that a lack of maintenance work wasn’t a
factor in the failure of the blades to crimp the pipe.  Cameron
International Corp. (CAM) , based in Houston, made the blowout
preventer used by the Deepwater Horizon.  Cameron fell $1.43, or 2.5 percent, to $55.30 at 4:15 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Transocean
declined 44 cents to $80.55 and has dropped 12 percent since the
April 20 blowout.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Carroll in Metairie, Louisiana at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  