-- 
Delhi Belly Isn’t Only Risk From Water in India as Deadly Bugs Uncovered

-- B y   J a s o n   G a l e
-- 
2011-04-06T22:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/delhi-belly-isn-t-only-india-water-risk-as-resistant-bugs-found.html
Drinking  India ’s tap water can yield
more than a bad case of Delhi belly.  Scientists testing water samples from New Delhi found more
than a dozen species of bacteria, ranging from strains that
cause pneumonia to cholera. The bugs had genes that enable them
to resist almost all medicines, according to a  study  published
today in the medical journal  The Lancet .  The research exposes the role played by India, a booming
economy with more mobile-phone subscribers than toilets, in
fanning the development of drug-evading bacteria. As 30 million
people fly out of the country annually, some are leaving with
bowel-dwelling bugs that may cause deadly sepsis and defeat the
most powerful antibiotic treatments.  “There is not even a light you can see at the end of this
dark tunnel,” said Peter Collignon, an infectious diseases
doctor who teaches at the  Australian National University  in
Canberra. “People are dying from infections that are no longer
treatable with available antibiotics.”  The researchers, led by  Timothy Walsh  of Cardiff University
in  Wales , collected 171 swabs from some of the drains that line
New Delhi’s streets and 50 samples of public tap water in
September and October. The samples were tested in the U.K. to
identify the bacteria they contained and whether the germs had a
gene known as NDM-1, which makes them resistant to a class of
antibiotics-of-last resort known as  carbapenems .  The gene was found in two of the drinking-water and 51 of
the seepage samples, including in  Vibrio cholerae ,  Shigella
boydii  and nine other bacteria species not previously reported
to harbor the resistance mechanism.  Losing ‘Miracle Cures’  The bacteria have been detected in patients traveling to
 Europe ,  North America ,  Asia  and  Australia  since 2008. Cases were
often linked to hospitalization in India and neighboring
countries, the authors said. Today’s paper points to the
environment as a new route of infection.  Concern that antibiotics are becoming powerless weapons is
growing, and the United Nations picked drug resistance as its
theme for today’s  World Health Day . Sixteen antibiotics were
approved between 1983 and 1987, compared with only two since
2008, according to the  Infectious Diseases Society of America .  “The world is on the brink of losing these miracle
cures,” Margaret Chan, director-general of the  World Health
Organization , said in a statement today. “In the absence of
urgent corrective and protective actions,” Chan said we may
enter “a post-antibiotic era, in which many common infections
will no longer have a cure and, once again, kill unabated.”  Escaping the Gut  More than 100 million Indians may possibly harbor bacteria
with the NDM-1 resistance gene if the study’s findings reflect 
community-wide dissemination, Walsh said in an interview.  “They’re carrying it as normal flora” in their
gastrointestinal tract, Walsh said, adding that surveys based on
rectal swabs are needed to gauge prevalence. “I imagine it’s
going to be alarmingly high from what we’re seeing.”  Eighteen percent of public water samples tested at more
than 600 sites in  New Delhi  were tainted by E. coli,  Salmonella ,
or some other disease-causing bacteria found in  human excreta 
that made the water unfit for drinking, according to a survey
this year by the Municipal Corporation of Delhi.  As long as the resistant bacteria remain in the bowel, most
people have no symptoms. Complications occur when the germs
escape from the bowel, entering other parts of the body,
including the bloodstream.  Boil the Water  Bladder infections caused by the resistant bugs pose one of
the biggest health threats as bowel bacteria commonly invade the 
urinary tract, particularly in women, Walsh said.  “If the bacteria is NDM-1 positive and shows the
resistance profiles that we know it can, that virtually becomes
untreatable,” Walsh said. Germs that migrate to the kidney may
enter the bloodstream and cause sepsis, he said.  Boiling water for 10 to 15 minutes should kill most
bacteria, according to Daniel Watts, a retired chemist who
worked on pollution prevention strategies at the New Jersey
Institute of Technology in  Newark .  The findings expose the extent to which a lack of
sanitation is holding back India’s economic development. A
shortage of toilets and inadequate sewage treatment trimmed 6.4
percent from India’s gross domestic product in 2006, or the
equivalent of $53.8 billion, a study by the  World Bank ’s Water
and Sanitation Program found.  “You can’t just wish this away,” said Vinod Paul,
professor of pediatrics at the  All India Institute of Medical
Sciences  in New Delhi. Paul blames “rampant” resistance in
Klebsiella, E. coli and Streptococcus bacteria for rising rates
of hard-to-treat sepsis in newborns. “We don’t have a handle on
how to tackle this.”  ‘Rocket Fuel’  Fifty-four percent of the 1.2 billion people in India, the
second-fastest growing of the world’s major economies, lacked a
toilet in 2008 and were forced to defecate in fields, on
riverbanks and railway tracks and other open spaces, according
to a 2010  United Nations   report . Only one in five people had
water piped into the home.  Lack of sanitation and clean water indirectly challenge
India’s hospitals -- even the private centers that undertake
organ transplants and other sophisticated surgeries, said David
Livermore, director of antibiotic resistance monitoring at the
U.K.’s  Health Protection Agency  in  London .  “How does the hospital isolate itself when its patients,
staff and food all come from outside, where they are exposed to
this soup of resistance?” Livermore said in an e-mail
yesterday. “Combine sophisticated medicine, poor sanitation,
and heavy antibiotic usage and you have a rocket fuel to drive
the accumulation of resistance -- and that surely is what India
has created.”  U.K. Issues Alert  Public water supplies in urban India typically run for only
a few hours a day. Bacteria may concentrate in stagnant water
inside pipes, according to Walsh. He also found that resistance
genes passed among bacteria best at 30 degrees Celsius (86
degrees Fahrenheit), a temperature reached in New Delhi about
seven months of the year.  Evidence of multidrug-resistant bacteria in tap water and
drains “probably represent a huge environmental
contamination,” said Robert Bonomo, professor of pharmacology
and microbiology at  Case Western Reserve University  and a doctor
at the Cleveland VA Medical Center in  Ohio . “I bet a lot of
people are not happy about that finding.”  Below the Waterline  Hospitals in the U.K. began reporting NDM-1 cases in mid-
2008. In July 2009, the HPA issued an  alert  asking doctors to
look out for the bacteria in patients who had visited hospitals
in the  Indian subcontinent . Last August, Walsh and colleagues
reported that NDM-1 was present in 1.9 percent of bacteria
samples from patients in the states of  Tamil Nadu  and Haryana.  India’s government in response created an expert group to
advise doctors and the public on antibiotic usage.  “We misuse the drugs very often,” Vishwa Mohan Katoch,
director-general of the  Indian Council of Medical Research  in
New Delhi, said in an interview yesterday. “Resistance emerges
and that antibiotic becomes useless,” limiting the choice of
effective medicines and increasing the reliance on more
expensive treatments, he said.  Improper use of antibiotics, including their sale without a
doctor’s prescription, has probably helped drive the emergence
of resistant bacteria, according to Walsh.  “This idea of stopping non-prescribed antibiotics is a
good one, but it’s too late,” Walsh said. “The damage has been
done. The part of the iceberg below the waterline is now
massive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Gale in Singapore at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  