-- 
Detroit’s Demise Sets Up Rebirth From Grassroots: Joshua Long

-- B y   J o s h u a   L o n g
-- 
2011-04-06T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/detroit-s-fall-sets-up-rebirth-from-grassroots-commentary-by-joshua-long.html
These days it seems impossible to
write about  Detroit  in measured terms. Words like “war zone,”
“post-apocalyptic” and “ghost town” are often used. Stories
portray it as a dystopian landscape of crumbling Gilded Age
monuments, abandoned warehouses and overgrown vacant lots.  Recent census data confirms that residents are moving out
as fast as wildlife is moving in. A sympathetic tone of urban
social Darwinism permeates most of these stories, eulogizing a
once-vibrant city that was either unable or unwilling to evolve
in a globalized post-industrial economy.  Experts argue over whether it was neoliberal class warfare
or corrupt government that crippled Detroit. The more than
713,000 remaining inhabitants are frequently portrayed as either
hardy veterans of economic fallout or as the left behind victims
who couldn’t escape the catastrophe.  Meanwhile, they go on living. Throughout the past decade of
job loss and economic decline, residents forged neighborhood
alliances, organized community revitalization initiatives, and
reshaped Detroit’s landscape in a way that challenges
traditional redevelopment doctrine. Hundreds of grassroots
coalitions and nonprofits are doing everything from lot
reclamation to microcredit financing and urban farming.  Small business is playing its part as well. With low
overhead and plenty of niche markets to fill, entrepreneurs are
opening independent, locally owned grocery stores, movie
theaters, bicycle rental shops and bookstores.  On the Rebound  There is more than enough evidence to show that Detroit is
poised for a comeback. Not the rapid growth promised by the  auto
industry  or newly elected politicians or Eminem. But the city is
on the rise.  Please don’t misunderstand me. I’m not trying to paint a
rosy picture of contemporary Detroit. The problems that have
historically beset the city still exist -- drug use, violent
crime, unemployment, the Lions’ decade-long losing streak.  Figures show that many of those who were able to escape
these problems have done so. The 25 percent loss in Detroit’s
population that has occurred since 2000 has had a ripple effect
across the urban landscape. According to recent census data,
there are about 80,000 vacant lots in the city. Local officials
see the deserted land and homes as potential hotspots for crime
and sources of neighborhood blight.  So, while the number of vacancies and foreclosures has
increased, so have the demolitions. The 2000s saw almost 25,000
housing units disappear.  Teardown Strategy  When Mayor Dave Bing took office in May 2009, he announced
an ambitious plan to continue the downsizing by demolishing
10,000 buildings in four years. The Obama administration,
through the Neighborhood Stabilization Program, has allocated
$20 million for such projects. Meanwhile, the mayor has turned
to partnerships with banks and private developers to finance
revitalization schemes.  The scale and urgency of demolitions is being questioned by
some residents. Blight removal is happening too quickly to
consider input from community stakeholders, according to several
neighborhood groups. Decisions about razing property and infill
development are coming from the top down.  Demolition is occurring just as groups of urban designers
and architects draw up plans for the new Detroit, a post-
industrial city reliant on high-technology employment, regional
public transportation, and a sleeker, greener auto industry.  Citizen Concerns  Rapidly implemented master plans like these are the sort of
responses that occur when neighborhoods are portrayed as
infectious social pariahs. A disastrous narrative invites swift
action. Now, residents are concerned that coalitions of  local
government , private developers and corporate executives are
preparing a land grab that could determine a different future
for Detroit than the one being forged by grassroots initiatives.  I have nothing against architects, planners, developers or
corporate executives. A greener, economically sustainable
Detroit depends on their expertise and participation. But I get
concerned when I hear alarmist rhetoric used to justify rapid,
undemocratic blight removal.  Without the participation of community stakeholders, we
quickly descend into the sort of overconfident social
engineering projects that scarred urban communities in the
1960s.  The last 50 years have shown that Detroit won’t benefit
from large-scale actions by the municipal or federal government.
Residents have discovered that real recovery comes from
community initiatives, entrepreneurial creativity and citizen
involvement.  Ground-Level Action  Groups like the  Detroit Food Justice Task Force  are
educating the community about food access and nutrition while
networking with entrepreneurs to build a locally sustainable,
environmentally just food system. Projects like Hush House are
tackling issues of adult illiteracy and homelessness while Urban
Neighborhood Initiatives is encouraging rehabilitation of parks,
vacant lots and community centers.  Greening of Detroit , Detroiters Working for Environmental
Justice, and Food and Water Watch are each working to promote
equal access to clean water, air and open space for minority
populations that historically have suffered disproportionately
from exposure to pollution, dumping and waste sites.  These are just a few examples of the type of community
cooperation that is building a new urban economy from the
bottom-up.  Stories about the auto industry and high-tech manufacturing
will continue to dominate headlines about Detroit’s future. But
while these industries remain tied to national trends, the
grassroots economy continues to build a city by Detroiters for
Detroiters. This is welcome news for a region whose livelihood
has long been dependent on auto manufacturing and government
programs.  An economy that relies on local actors and slow growth
isn’t sensational, but it is democratic and viable. Detroit may
never again become America’s industrial giant, but it might be
entering a new period of sustainable economic development.  (Joshua Long, an assistant professor of social sciences at
Franklin College Switzerland, is the author of “Weird City:
Sense of Place and Creative Resistance in Austin,  Texas .”)  To contact the writers of this column:
Joshua Long at  jlong@fc.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  