-- 
Deutsche Bank Says German Municipalities ‘Eager’ to Use Swaps

-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 
2011-04-06T22:34:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/deutsche-bank-says-german-municipalities-eager-to-use-swaps.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Germany’s biggest
lender, rejected criticism that its municipal swap products were
designed to make profit from clients’ losses and said towns were
eager to use the derivatives to control financial risk.  German town councils, looking to hedge against interest
payments on loans, initiate “most” enquiries to buy municipal
swaps, Deutsche Bank management board member Juergen Fitschen
said at a hearing in parliament yesterday in Berlin. Criticism
that the products are geared to flip customer’ losses into
profit for the lender are “erroneous,” he said.  Lawmakers summoned the Frankfurt-based lender to a hearing
as they probe whether to curb banks’ swap business after town
councils reported losing millions of euros from the structured
products.  Germany ’s highest court ruled in one case last month
that Deutsche Bank failed to adequately disclose the products’
risks.  While swaps have “indeed become more complex” this
decade, Deutsche Bank informs clients in “very intensive”
talks of risks linked to the products, Fitschen said. At the
same time, “every derivative contract rests on assumptions” or
forecasts about future conditions such as interest-rate
developments that may prove wrong, he said.  New Legislation  Prompted by the court decision, lawmakers from Germany’s
ruling coalition will pressure banks to supply information on
the scope of swap contracts before the possible introduction of
legislation, a senior member of  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s party
said. The lawmaker spoke on terms of anonymity as plans to limit
client liabilities in future swap contracts are not yet being
discussed in public.  The German city of Pforzheim filed a suit against  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  in December over 56 million euros ($80 million) in
losses, making claims similar to those in the high-court suit
case against Deutsche Bank and swaps it offered to Ille Papier
Service GmbH, a medical supplies company.  Deutsche Bank will likely lose another case involving
interest-rate swaps that led to 414,000 euros in losses because
of the precedent said by the March 22 ruling, the judge hearing
the case said today.  Judge Freimut Gundlach said at a Cologne Higher Regional
Court hearing today that he’s likely to follow the top court’s
decision that said the lender is liable for such swap-related
losses.  Deutsche Bank won a majority of decisions on the swaps
issue in German state appeals courts while a minority held the
lender violated its duties to customers when selling the swaps
and ruled, at least in part, against the bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at o
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  