-- 
Dish Faces Studio, Landlord Fights With Blockbuster Acquisition

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-04-07T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/dish-takes-on-blockbuster-s-disputes-with-movie-studios-office-landlords.html
The $320 million proposed
acquisition of  Blockbuster Inc. (BLOAQ)  by  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  will bring
with it disputes with landlords and movie studios and questions
about the viability of the movie-rental business, analysts said.  The satellite TV provider’s winning bid yesterday beat
offers from  Carl Icahn  and liquidators. Dish said the offer
includes $228 million in cash, and hasn’t announced how it will
treat the movie studios that are Blockbuster’s main business
partners. The deal offers pennies on the dollar even for the
creditors first in line to be repaid.  Dish now has to decide how many Blockbuster locations to
close as consumers migrate to online rentals, and how to keep
relationships with movie studios that may not have been paid the
full amount of their claims.  “It doesn’t make sense to buy a melting ice cube unless
you’ve got a plan to increase revenue,” said David Berliner, an
adviser at BDO Consulting in  New York  who specializes in
restructuring and insolvency issues. Dish may intend to use
Blockbuster’s stores to draw in new customers to its satellite
business, which competes more with DirecTV and cable companies
than  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , he said.  Dish may end up winding down Blockbuster eventually,
Berliner said. He compared the deal to Cablevision Systems
Corp.’s $95 million purchase of the bankrupt electronics chain
The Wiz in 1998. Cablevision closed the stores in 2003.  Access to Customers  “They got access to Wiz customers to sell Cablevision
services,” Berliner said.  In first round of bidding at an April 5 bankruptcy court
auction, Dish offered to pay $39.9 million to cover studio
claims, and $142.6 million to lenders who were the highest
priority because they had loaned Blockbuster more money in
bankruptcy, alongside other priority claims, such as business
partners that sent the company goods while it was in bankruptcy.  Dish’s final offer gave $178.8 million to that group: the
first $125 million goes to the senior lenders, $4 million goes
to other priority claims, and the rest is split 75/25 in favor
of senior lenders, according to a person familiar with the
situation. That would leave about $36.75 million to cover
secured bondholders’ claim of $505 million. The person, who
didn’t want to be identified because the matter hasn’t been made
public, declined to comment on the final amount put to movie
studios’ claims.  Stephen Karotkin, a lawyer for Blockbuster, didn’t return a
call seeking comment. Marc Lumpkin, a Dish spokesman, declined
to comment.  Cobalt Video  In the court auction, the most competitive bids came from
Cobalt Video, a venture between lenders including Monarch
Alternative Capital LP, which had set the sale procedure through
a stalking-horse offer; Seoul-based wireless and Internet-
service provider SK Telecom; and Icahn, a Blockbuster lender and
former director who teamed with four corporate liquidators:
Great American Group Inc., Tiger Capital Group LLC, Hudson
Capital Partners LLC and SB Capital Group LLC.  Only SK Telecom’s offer would have maintained distribution
deals with studios, and preserved relationships with suppliers
and landlords, SK Telecom’s lawyer David Feldman said at the
auction. That bid was rejected by Blockbuster’s financial
adviser, Rothschild Inc., which was overseeing the auction along
with lawyers for Blockbuster.  Blockbuster Creditors  “There were different currencies being offered to
different players, bankruptcy judges don’t like that,” said
David Pauker of Goldin Associates, who said he expects legal
disputes about how the deal treats different creditors of
Blockbuster.  A group of landlords have already objected to the sale,
saying in court papers filed yesterday that they have yet to
find out from Dish what its intent is for their leases. They
asked the bankruptcy judge to adjourn today’s hearing, at which
Dish plans to seek  bankruptcy court  approval of its sale.  Twentieth Century Fox Home Entertainment LLC also said in
court papers filed yesterday that it’s owed $20 million under
contracts with Blockbuster. Blockbuster has alleged Fox is owed
nothing.  Universal Music Group Distribution Corp. said in court
papers filed April 5 that it’s owed about $548,681. Blockbuster
had proposed paying nothing to satisfy a default on DVDs
Universal leased for rental through Blockbuster’s stores and
online service.  Court Hearing  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland  is scheduled to
consider approval of Dish’s offer in bankruptcy court today,
with 110 objections to the sale listed. When companies buy
assets through a bankruptcy auction, they get them free of
liens, or claims that existed prior to bankruptcy, and some
objections may be overruled.  Shahid Khan , chairman of MediaMorph, an adviser that tracks
how content performs on different platforms for media companies,
said Dish may have overestimated the depth of Blockbuster’s
relationship with studios, and the importance of the
Blockbuster’s brand.  “In the end it’s all about money,” Khan said. “Studios
are in the business of selling content in as many ways as
possible.” Kahn’s clients include some of the studios that have
worked with Blockbuster, such as Sony, Universal, and Fox, he
said.  “The Blockbuster brand isn’t synonymous with digital
media, Netflix and Apple are,” Khan said. “Most people still
remember Blockbuster as the company that charged you tons of
late fees when you rented movies.”  Priority Creditors  There may yet be a fight about whether Blockbuster waited
too long to file for bankruptcy, or how its sale deal treats the
professionals hired to advise Blockbuster, said  Stephen Lubben ,
Daniel J. Moore Professor of Law at  Seton Hall University School
of Law . Rothschild and bankruptcy counsel Weil Gotshal & Manges
LLP could be compared with other priority creditors, such as
movie studios that supplied Blockbuster with titles even after
it was in bankruptcy.  “If it looks like the insiders are taking care of
themselves at the expense of others you’ll have a big problem,”
Lubben  said.  Blockbuster filed for bankruptcy in September with 5,600
stores, including 3,300 in the U.S., saying sales shrank in
recent years while Netflix Inc. grew by renting movies online
and through the mail, and  Coinstar Inc. (CSTR)  put Redbox DVD vending
machines in supermarkets and drugstores.  The case is In re Blockbuster, 10-14997,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  