-- 
Dodge Says Canada's Finances Threatened by Health Care ‘Spending Disease’

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-04-06T16:57:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/dodge-says-canada-s-finances-threatened-by-health-care-spending-disease-.html
Canada ’s finances are threatened by
a “spending disease” in which health-care bills may account
for about one in every five dollars spent in the economy in 20
years, former central bank chief  David Dodge  said.  The country spent about 12 percent of gross domestic
product on health care in 2009, a figure that may grow to 19
percent by 2031, Dodge and former central bank economist Richard
Dion wrote in a paper for the Toronto-based  C.D. Howe Institute 
today. The increase will be driven by new technologies, an aging
population, rising demand and higher prices for health-related
goods and services, the report said.  “There is an extraordinarily difficult set of choices that
are going to have to be made,” Dodge said in a telephone
interview from Toronto. “You can’t continue to duck it.”  Health care is one of the biggest voter  issues  in Canada’s
May 2 election campaign, according to recent polls. Prime
Minister Stephen Harper has said opposition parties will hurt
the economy with new spending and tax plans, while Liberal
leader  Michael Ignatieff  has said Harper will waste money on
fighter jets and prisons, and plans to reverse past and future
corporate tax cuts to help free up cash needed for health-
funding negotiations with Canada’s provincial governments.  Drug Costs  Shares of the four health companies in the country’s main
stock index have jumped 118 percent in the last year, almost
four times as much as the next sub-index of commodities stocks.
The gauge doesn’t include  Shoppers Drug Mart Corp. (SC) , the
country’s largest pharmacy chain, whose shares have fallen 4.8
percent in the past year. The company has fought the Ontario
provincial government’s plan for new rules to curb drug costs.  The report constructs an “optimistic” scenario, in which
policy changes cut health costs and economic growth prospects
improve. In that scenario, health-care spending would still
increase to 15 percent of the economy by 2031.  The financial impact will still be felt even if governments
are “incredibly successful in improving the efficiency and
effectiveness of the health-care system,” the report said. The
“difficult choices” include cuts in the quality and quantity
in publicly funded services, higher taxes and reductions in
other government services, the report said.  Today’s paper echoes the findings of a former visiting
economist at the federal finance department, Christopher Ragan.
Canadian governments need to generate surpluses of about C$40
billion ($42 billion) from 2015 through 2020 to cover rising
health-care costs, Ragan said at an August 2009 presentation.  ‘Danger’ Zone  Without changes to fiscal policy, Canada’s federal,
provincial and local government debt will swell into a
“danger” zone greater than 60 percent of gross domestic
product, Ragan said at the time.  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty ’s March 22 budget, which
wasn’t passed by Parliament before the election was called,
forecast a C$29.6 billion deficit in the fiscal year that begins
April 1, and a surplus in the 2015-2016 fiscal year. Ignatieff
has said the deficit would shrink to 1 percent of GDP within two
years if the Liberals form the next government.  Dodge was Bank of Canada Governor from 2001 to 2008, and
the country’s top civil servant in the finance and health
departments before that. He currently works as a senior adviser
at law firm Bennett Jones LLP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 