-- 
DP World Seeks to Consolidate Shares as Port Operator Aims London Listing

-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-04-06T09:53:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/dp-world-seeks-to-consolidate-shares-as-port-operator-aims-london-listing.html
DP World Ltd. (DPW) , the Dubai World-
controlled company that operates ports from  Europe  to  Asia , will
seek investors’ approval to combine 20 shares into one before a
dual listing on the London Stock Exchange.  The consolidation “will better position DP World’s share
price alongside global companies,” DP World said in an e-mailed
statement today. Shareholders will receive one $2 share for
every 20 existing shares of 10 cents each. Trading in the new
shares is likely to begin on May 19.  The move will have “very little impact other than to
increase the notional value of EPS and dividends,” said  Julian Bruce , equity sales head at EFG-Hermes Holding in Dubai. There
are “some suggestions that the move would also avoid the issue
of the stock being listed in  London  as a penny share,” he said.  DP World raised $4.96 billion in the Middle East’s biggest
initial public offering in November 2007 and trades on Nasdaq
Dubai. It said last year it would seek a listing on the London
Stock Exchange to improve investors’ perception of its value
after the shares slumped.  The free float, or shares available to investors, will
remain at 19.55 percent, while the number in issue will drop
from 16.6 billion to 830 million, DP World said. Shareholders
are scheduled to vote on the plan May 11.  DP World’s shares gained 0.9 percent to $0.641 at 1:50
p.m., according to the Nasdaq Dubai website. In its initial
public offering, the company sold shares at $1.3 each.  It said in March that it’s committed to completing the
London listing in a “timely manner” in the second quarter.
It’s arranging for the issue of “depository interests” to
facilitate trading in London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net ;
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  