-- 
East Europe Should Tackle Energy Exporters on Climate, EBRD Says

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-04-06T11:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/east-europe-should-tackle-energy-exporters-on-climate-ebrd-says.html
Eastern European nations need to
incentivize energy exporters to embrace low-carbon sources to
further curb greenhouse gases blamed for  climate change , said
the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.  “It may be necessary to alter the incentives that the
carbon-intensive industries are given and facilitate their
transition from lobbyists against carbon-efficient production to
lobbyists in favor of low-carbon production,” the bank said
today in a report published on its website.  “It is hard to overcome the powerful influence of carbon-
intensive industries,” according to the report, which was co-
written by the Grantham Research Institute on Climate Change and
the Environment at the  London School of Economics  and Political
Science. In many eastern European countries, “these industries
are the largest export earners, the largest employers and the
largest contributors to the national tax base.”  A carbon price would help improve the incentives faced by
energy exporters and consumers in the region, the bank said.
Economies in the region are “highly energy and carbon
intensive,” even after emissions on average dropped 28 percent
through 2008 compared with 1990, it said.  Russia , for instance, plans to reduce  energy intensity  by 1
percent annually until 2030, the bank said. “The domestic
political game in Russia has resulted in few measures being
enacted to mitigate climate change.”  ‘Political Pressure’  There has been “strong political pressure” on OAO Gazprom
to reduce flaring, or burning off, of gas and there was a
“much-publicized” ban on incandescent  light bulbs  in 2009,
which will take effect in 2014, according to the report.  Russia favors industry-based  emissions trading  for power
generators, cement makers and metals producers to better protect
the world’s climate, the nation said last month.  “We consider it is appropriate to use so-called sectoral
approach” to limit emissions while minimizing costs, Russia
 said  in a submission to the United Nations Framework Convention
on Climate Change in Bonn,  published on the regulator’s website .  Industry-based goals could be set either in relation to a
baseline year or in terms of an emissions reduction per unit of
product produced, according to the submission.  The UN, which oversees the 1997  Kyoto Protocol , is seeking
views from nations and others about how to boost emission
reductions to curb damaging climate change.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  