-- 
Eastern U.S., Texas to Warm Next Week, CWG’s Matt Rogers Says

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-04-06T11:45:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/eastern-u-s-texas-to-warm-next-week-cwg-s-matt-rogers-says.html
The eastern U.S. has a high
probability of being warmer than normal next week, according to
 Matt Rogers , president of  Commodity Weather Group LLC .  The area of potential warming in the 6- to 10-day outlook
shrank from yesterday’s forecast and now shows many of the Great
Plains states being near the seasonal averages. Texas,  New
Mexico  and Colorado all may be warmer, according to Rogers.  Yesterday, weather models were split about how much warming
would blanket the U.S., especially in the 11- to 15-day outlook.  “While there continues to be detail debates for next week,
the ensembles are starting to come into better alignment for the
11-15 day,” Rogers said today in a note to clients.  Natural gas traders monitor  weather forecasts  to determine
whether temperatures may boost heating or cooling demand.
Predictions of below-normal or above-normal temperatures may
prompt traders to buy or sell gas futures. Commodity traders
watch precipitation forecasts for potential impact on planting
and yields.  New York ’s average temperature in mid-April is about 50
degrees Fahrenheit (10 degrees Celsius),  according to MDA
EarthSat Weather  in Gaithersburg, Maryland. In  St. Louis  it is
about 55; in Boston, 46; in Philadelphia, 51; in Atlanta, 60;
and in Dallas, 63, according to MDA.  The 11- to 15-day outlook almost mirrors yesterday’s except
that the area of warming on the U.S. East Coast has shrunk and
now runs from Virginia to northern Florida. The area of cooling
now stretches from the Pacific Northwest to western New York,
according to Rogers in Bethesda, Maryland.  Yesterday, the U.S. Climate Prediction Center forecast the
northern and eastern U.S. would have a high probability of being
cooler than normal through April 19.  The 6- to 10-day and 8- to 14-day outlooks from the center,
in Camp Springs,  Maryland , showed a cooling trend for the North.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  