-- 
EDF Declines for a Second Day on French Power Price Cap, Nuclear Outlook

-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 
2011-04-06T15:57:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/edf-declines-for-a-second-day-on-french-power-price-cap-nuclear-outlook.html
Electricite de  France  SA, the
world’s largest operator of nuclear reactors, fell for a second
day in Paris trading on concern power price controls and higher
costs after  Japan ’s atomic crisis will cut profit.  EDF, as the Paris-based utility is known, dropped 3.2
percent to 27.55 euros, the lowest in three weeks. The shares
have fallen 68 percent since reaching a record in November 2007,
wiping more than 100 billion euros ($143 billion) off the
company’s value.  The French government, facing an election next year, has
been under pressure to rein in energy costs after raising
regulated rates for natural gas consumers. Efforts to contain
radiation leaks at Japan’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi power plant in the
wake of last month’s earthquake and tsunami have cast a shadow
over global plans to expand nuclear energy.  “People are clearly taking fright at political risk,”
Martin Young, a London-based analyst at Nomura International
Plc, said by telephone. “They now perceive the French as
carrying great political risk, that wasn’t the case if you go
back a few months.”  French Prime Minister Francois Fillon said yesterday that
an increase in power prices for households of 2.9 percent will
take effect July 1 and be capped through June 30, 2012. Industry
Minister Eric Besson said today that the government will set a
price this month at which EDF will have to sell its nuclear
output to rivals.  Power Law  The power law, passed by parliament last year, aims to open
up the  electricity market  by forcing EDF, operator of the
country’s 58 reactors, to sell as much as a quarter of its
output to competitors such as GDF Suez SA. The wholesale price
will determine whether rivals can compete in France’s regulated
market, the second-biggest in  Europe  after  Germany . The law is
due to take effect July 1.  Fillon also said a planned increase in the so-called CSPE
tax on electricity bills on January 1 will be spread over a
longer period, capping a regulated power rate increase for
households to 2.9 percent until June 30, 2012. This includes a
1.7 percent rise in all regulated rates from July 1 to cover
higher costs of power transport and distribution and two 1.2
percent increases to cover the CSPE, one July 1 and another on
July 1 next year. Power prices should have increased by 5
percent in July.  “The tariff rise has been pulled forward” and is higher
than we have factored into our estimates, Young said. “The
actual impact in euro terms compared to our estimates is pretty
immaterial,” he said. “This is an over-reaction.”  The company was cut to “neutral” from “buy” at Oddo &
Cie today, with a 12-month share price target of 32 euros.  Today’s drop follows a 3.7 percent decline yesterday.  The French state remains the biggest shareholder with 85
percent of the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  