-- 
Lehman's Creditors ‘Seriously’ Consider Proposing a Third Bankruptcy Plan

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-04-07T04:17:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/lehman-creditors-seriously-weigh-proposing-3rd-bankruptcy-plan.html
Creditors of  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  are “seriously considering” proposing a
bankruptcy plan for the failed investment bank that would
compete against two other proposals, according to  Morgan
Stanley (MS) ,  Silver Point  Capital LP and other creditors.  Creditors of Lehman’s operating companies are weighing
whether to file a plan and take on Lehman’s own proposal to pay
creditors and a proposal by a group that includes hedge fund
Paulson & Co., noteholders said in papers filed yesterday with
the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New York.  The Lehman Brothers Treasury BV noteholders, including
Morgan Stanley, Silver Point, Angelo Gordon & Co. and Oaktree
Capital Management LP, didn’t specify which entities might
propose the rival bankruptcy plan. They said the group weighing
the move includes “certain” of the noteholders.  Lehman, which collapsed in 2008, is set to ask U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge James Peck at a June 28 hearing to approve
creditor voting on its proposal. The Paulson group, which
includes the  California Public Employees’ Retirement System , or
Calpers, wants its plan to pay creditors to move forward on the
same schedule as Lehman’s. A third liquidation plan would mark
another proposal vying to distribute Lehman’s assets for
creditors.  Lehman hopes to win approval of its plan by November. Chief
Executive  Bryan Marsal  has said he aims to raise $61 billion
from Lehman’s assets to pay $322 billion in claims, or an
average of 18.6 cents on the dollar.  Derivative Creditors  The members of the Paulson-Calpers group filed their plan
in December in a move to increase their recovery in the
bankruptcy and cut payments to derivative creditors.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and other banks with derivative
claims against Lehman have drafted a competing payment plan and
may file it by next week, according to a person familiar with
the matter.  Goldman Sachs,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc (RBS)  and other creditors filed papers yesterday calling for
competing plans to be considered along the same timeline as
Lehman’s plan. Goldman and other creditors said in a joint court
filing that they “reserve the right” to file a rival plan.  Kimberly Macleod, a spokeswoman for Lehman, declined to
comment.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 