-- 
Elan Gains Most in 3 Months After Tysabri Comments

-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 
2011-04-07T16:23:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/elan-up-the-most-in-3-months-after-positive-tysabri-comments.html
(Corrects fourth, sixth paragraphs of story published April
6 to show test is for antibodies.)  Elan Corp. rose the most in three
months after a Berenberg Bank analyst said the share price
doesn’t recognize the value of Tysabri and the potential for the
Irish drugmaker’s Alzheimer’s treatment, bapineuzumab.  There is “an increasing appreciation” for Tysabri, the
multiple sclerosis drug Dublin-based Elan markets with its
partner Weston, Massachusetts-based  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB)  as a first-
line treatment, Berenberg Analyst Adrian Howd wrote today in a
report.  Elan’s American depositary receipts rose 44 cents, or 6.2
percent, to $7.59 at 4:02 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading, the most since Jan. 6. Each receipt is equal
to one ordinary company share.  Howd cited new guidelines from the Swedish Multiple
Sclerosis Society that use an antibody test to assess the risk
of a patient developing a brain infection called progressive
multifocal leukoencephalopathy, or PML, which is a potentially
fatal side effect of the drug. Those at the highest risk run a 1
in 100 chance of developing the brain illness while on Tysabri,
compared with as much as a 1 in 100,000 chance for those in the
lowest-risk group, Howd said.  “We estimate that the highest-risk category presents less
than 4 percent of the total MS population and, as these patients
typically represent the most severe cases of the disease, a move
to stop using Tysabri is not guaranteed,” Howd wrote in his
report. “These latest guidelines are positive for Tysabri
usage.”  Elan and Biogen will be able to market the risk-benefit of
the drug once the test developed by Elan is available in the
U.S., said Howd, who recommends buying the stock. The test is
now available in  Europe  and should be approved in the U.S. in
the second half of the year, he said.  Bapineuzumab, which is being developed by  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ) , may have “significant upside” when late-stage
clinical trial results are released in the second half of 2012,
Howd wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 