-- 
TeliaSonera Steps Up Price War in Spain to Take On Telefonica

-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 
2011-04-06T09:32:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/teliasonera-steps-up-price-war-in-spain-to-take-on-telefonica.html
Yoigo, the Spanish mobile-phone unit
of  Sweden ’s  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN) , is aiming for more than 3 million
customers this year by attracting clients with low prices, Chief
Executive Officer Johan Andsjo said.  “We have already started a price war,” Andsjo said in an
interview yesterday at his office in  Madrid , where the company
is based. “Spain is still the most expensive European country
in terms of rates and it’s obvious that amid the current
macroeconomic crisis people switch operators to save money.”  Yoigo targets a 10 percent market share in 2015, up from
4.3 percent in February, Andsjo said. Yoigo aims for positive
 cash flow  this year and will open 100 stores during the first
half, he said. There were 55 million mobile customers in Spain
in February and  Telefonica SA (TEF) , Spain’s biggest phone company,
had more than 41 percent of the market through its Movistar
unit, according to the country’s phone regulator.  Yoigo was the mobile operator with the biggest increase in
clients swapping providers while keeping their old phone numbers
in February. It had a net gain of 35,867 customers, while
Movistar was the biggest loser with a net 42,623 decline.  Yoigo, which was founded in 2006, had 2.3 million customers
last year and during the first three months of 2011 it grew “at
a similar pace to a year earlier,” the 38-year-old executive
said. Last year’s sales climbed 46 percent to 5.98 billion
Swedish kronor ($948 million) as Yoigo added 777,000 customers,
the company said. The company, which charges at little as 4 
cents a minute for calls, has more than 1,000 stores in  Spain .  Sustainable Growth  The strategy for growth is “sustainable” in the long term
because it’s based in cheap prices, the executive said. Yoigo
also wants to expand mobile data usage, and expects its revenue
from this service to grow 200 percent this year through the use
of wireless modems and smartphones, he said.  Yoigo will increase coverage from 67 percent of Spain’s
population to 74 percent and boost speed to 21 megabits per
second, the executive said, declining to say how much the
company plans to invest this year.  TeliaSonera, Sweden’s biggest phone company, holds a 77
percent stake in Yoigo and has said the unit is now integral to
its strategy after previously putting it up for sale.  TeliaSonera’s change of heart “is due to our good
results,” Andsjo said. “They now understand and clearly see
that we’re making a positive contribution to the group.”  Spectrum Auction  Yoigo and TeliaSonera save money by sharing procurement for
items such as terminals and antennas, Andsjo said.  Other shareholders in Yoigo are Actividades de Construccion
& Servicios SA, which holds a 17 percent stake, Fomento de
Construcciones & Contratas SA with 3.4 percent and  Telvent GIT
SA (TLVT)  with 3 percent.  “The situation among shareholders is very stable because
we’re accomplishing our goals,” Andsjo said.  Yoigo plans to acquire more spectrum as Spain’s government
prepares to sell as many as 26 blocks to provide more data
capacity to mobile-phone operators, in transactions that may
raise as much as 2 billion euros ($2.8 billion).  “Our shareholders have already shown an interest in
investing,” he said, declining to say how much spectrum they
plan to secure and how much they’ll spend. “We want to continue
being the fastest-growing phone operator in the market both in
customers and revenues.”  The Spanish bandwidth will be distributed mainly through
auctions, the Industry Ministry said April 1. Telefonica and
 Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , the market leaders, will be restricted from
some of the frequency allocations in an effort to promote
competition, it said.  France Telecom SA (FTE) ’s Orange unit had more than 20 percent of
the mobile market in February and Vodafone Group Plc had 29
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  