-- 
Helix Says 10-17 Days Would Be Needed to Contain a Spill

-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 
2011-04-06T17:24:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/helix-says-10-17-days-would-be-needed-to-contain-a-spill-1-.html
Helix Energy Solutions Group Inc. (HLX) 
and its partners would need as many as 17 days to contain a Gulf
of Mexico oil spill, or five times quicker than the time it took
BP Plc to plug a ruptured well last year.  Helix’s Q4000 ship would need about three days to arrive at
the spill site, Chief Executive Officer Owen Kratz said today in
an interview in Washington. A cap to contain the seabed well
would arrive at the same time, he said.  “If the integrity is such that we can just shut it in
then, then it will immediately be shut in and that’s the end of
the problem,” he said. A well that’s significantly damaged and
can’t be shut would require Helix to lower a riser, or pipe,
from the Q4000 to the wellhead to capture the crude, he said.  Helix’s oil containment process, along with a system from a
group led by  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , allowed the U.S. to resume
drilling in the deep waters of the Gulf of Mexico almost a year
after the BP blowout, the worst U.S. offshore spill.  The  Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and
Enforcement , the Obama administration agency overseeing offshore
drilling, approved eight companies to explore in deep waters of
the Gulf.  Five companies --  Noble Energy Inc. (NBL) , BHP Billiton Ltd., ATP
Oil & Gas Corp.,  Statoil ASA (STL)  and  Eni SpA (ENI)  -- said they will use
Helix equipment in case of a spill.  Marine Well Containment Co., which is set up by Exxon,
 Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  ConocoPhillips (COP) , would
deploy equipment when notified by an operator, and response
times would vary, Rachael Moore, an Exxon spokeswoman, said
today in an e-mail.  Buyers Sought  While Kratz promotes the containment system and meets U.S.
regulators, he also is seeking a buyer for the oil reserves that
Houston-based Helix has in the  Gulf of Mexico .  Helix has been unable to find a buyer for the business amid
a drilling slump after the BP spill. The company now will focus
on offering the producing part of its offshore operations, he
said.  “We’re going to be looking to sell packages of producing
fields,” Kratz said. “We have a number of fields that are
proven and non-developed, and we’re hopeful that we can get the
permits required to go ahead to put those to production, so as
we get those into production, we’ll look to market them.”  Helix might be able to sell about half of proved developed
producing reserves this year, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in  Washington  at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at   lliebert@bloomberg.net . 