-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Rise for Seventh Day on Growth Outlook

-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-04-06T11:17:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/emerging-market-stocks-rise-for-seventh-day-on-growth-outlook.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, driving
the regional benchmark index to its longest streak of gains in
five months, on speculation  China ’s interest-rate increases will
promote lower-inflation economic growth.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index advanced 0.7 percent to
1,203.20 as of 11:35 a.m. in London, bringing its rally in the
past seven days to 5.7 percent. The Shanghai Composite Index
gained 1.1 percent in the first day of trading after a four-day
holiday weekend. Taiwan’s Taiex Index rose 1.7 percent and
 Turkey ’s  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  jumped 1.6 percent.  China’s rate-increase cycle is “coming close to an end”
after the People’s Bank of China yesterday lifted key borrowing
costs for the fourth time since October, Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. wrote in a note to clients. European Central Bank President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  indicated March 3 that policy makers may
raise rates at their April meeting, which is tomorrow. The U.S.
Federal Reserve is due to end its $600 billion bond buying
program in June.  “There’s growing confidence in the growth prospects of
emerging markets since the rate increases we have seen are
gradual and not abrupt,” said Fitz Aclan, who helps manage
about $13 billion at Banco de Oro Unibank Inc. in  Manila .
“Investors are building positions since emerging markets in the
long run have better fundamentals and earnings growth than
developed markets.”  The Taiwanese dollar appreciated 0.6 percent against the
U.S. currency. The ruble gained as much as 0.6 percent to its
strongest level since 2008, and the Turkish lira rose by 0.5
percent.  Carry Trade  Japanese interest rates of nearly zero and a depreciating
yen are fueling the carry trade, in which investors borrow in
currencies of countries with low rates and invest the proceeds
in higher-yielding assets, according to BNP Paribas SA.  “The weakness in the Japanese yen” has been “the
overriding factor for most local currencies, which have
continued their bullish run,”  Elisabeth Gruie , an analyst at
BNP Paribas in  London , and colleagues wrote in a research note.  The Taiwanese dollar gained as much as 1.6 percent against
the yen and the lira as much as 1.2 percent.  MSCI’s developing-nation stock index has rallied 10 percent
since closing at a three-week low on March 17 as China’s
manufacturing growth accelerated for the first time in four
months and exports picked up from  Malaysia  and  South Korea . The
rally has pushed the measure’s gain this year to 4.5 percent,
narrowing its gap with the MSCI World Index of developed
nations, which has advanced 5.2 percent.  Banks  Companies in MSCI Emerging Markets Index trade at 11.8
times estimated earnings, compared with 13 times for the  MSCI
World (MXWO)  Index. Developing-nation equity funds attracted inflows of
$2.6 billion in the week to March 30, the most since the period
ended Jan. 5, according to data compiled by EPFR Global.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd., the country’s
biggest lender, climbed 1.8 percent in Shanghai trading as
Barclays Plc and Citigroup Inc. said higher rates will increase
lenders’ net interest margins. Policy markets yesterday lifted
the benchmark one-year lending rate by a quarter point to 6.31
percent and the one-year deposit rate to 3.25 percent from 3
percent.  Banks also led Turkish and Hungarian stocks higher.  Turkiye
Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN) , Turkey’s largest lender by market
capitalization, gained 1.5 percent. Budapest’s BUX Index rallied
1.6 percent after OTP Bank Nyrt., which accounts for 30 percent
of the measure’s weighting, increased 2.4 percent.  Taiwanese chipmakers were boosted after Dallas-based  Texas
Instruments Inc. (TXN) , the biggest maker of analog chips, said it
would pay $6.5 billion for  National Semiconductor Corp. (NSM)  Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., the world’s largest contract
chipmaker, gained 3.1 percent while  United Microelectronics
Corp. (2303)  advanced 1.3 percent. Taiwanese markets were closed the
previous two days for public holidays.  Banks  The Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index of eastern European,
Middle East and Africa credit-default swaps eased 2 basis points
to 183 points.  The difference between the return investors demand from
emerging-market bonds and U.S. Treasuries fell 2 basis point to
251, according to the JPMorgan Chase EMBI+ Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  