-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Rise for Seventh Day on Growth Outlook

-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-04-06T21:48:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/emerging-market-stocks-advance-for-seventh-day-on-economic-growth-outlook.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, driving
the regional benchmark index to its longest streak of gains in
five months, on speculation  China ’s interest-rate increases will
promote lower-inflation economic growth.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index advanced 0.7 percent to
1,203.47, bringing its rally in the past seven days to 5.7
percent. The Shanghai Composite Index gained 1.1 percent in the
first day of trading after a four-day holiday weekend. Taiwan’s
Taiex Index rose 1.7 percent and  Turkey ’s  ISE National 100 Index (XU100) 
jumped 1.4 percent.  China’s rate-increase cycle is “coming close to an end”
after the People’s Bank of China yesterday lifted key borrowing
costs for the fourth time since October, Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. wrote in a note to clients. European Central Bank President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  indicated March 3 that policy makers may
raise rates at their April meeting, which is tomorrow. The U.S.
Federal Reserve is due to end its $600 billion bond buying
program in June.  “There’s growing confidence in the growth prospects of
emerging markets since the rate increases we have seen are
gradual and not abrupt,” said Fitz Aclan, who helps manage
about $13 billion at Banco de Oro Unibank Inc. in  Manila .
“Investors are building positions since emerging markets in the
long run have better fundamentals and earnings growth than
developed markets.”  The Taiwanese dollar appreciated 0.6 percent against the
U.S. currency and  South Korea ’s won gained 0.3 percent. The
ruble gained as much as 0.6 percent to its strongest level since
2008, and the Turkish lira rose 1.1 percent.  Brazil ’s real
dropped 0.3 percent, the most out of 25 emerging market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, after Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said Brazil will announce new measures to stem gains in
the currency.  Carry Trade  Japanese interest rates of nearly zero and a depreciating
yen are fueling the carry trade, in which investors borrow in
currencies of countries with low rates and invest the proceeds
in higher-yielding assets, according to BNP Paribas SA.  “The weakness in the Japanese yen” has been “the
overriding factor for most local currencies, which have
continued their bullish run,”  Elisabeth Gruie , an analyst at
BNP Paribas in  London , and colleagues wrote in a research note.  The Taiwanese dollar gained as much as 1.6 percent against
the yen and the lira as much as 1.2 percent.  MSCI’s developing-nation stock index has rallied 10 percent
since closing at a three-week low on March 17 as China’s
manufacturing growth accelerated for the first time in four
months, exports picked up from  Malaysia  and South Korea and
unemployment dropped in the U.S. The rally has pushed the
measure’s gain this year to 4.5 percent, narrowing its gap with
the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of developed nations, which has advanced
5.3 percent.  Banks  Companies in MSCI Emerging Markets Index trade at 13.7
times estimated earnings, compared with 13 times for the MSCI
World Index. Developing-nation equity funds attracted inflows of
$2.6 billion in the week to March 30, the most since the period
ended Jan. 5, according to data compiled by EPFR Global.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd., the country’s
biggest lender, climbed 1.8 percent in Shanghai trading as
Barclays Plc and Citigroup Inc. said higher rates will increase
lenders’ net interest margins. Policy markets yesterday lifted
the benchmark one-year lending rate by a quarter point to 6.31
percent and the one-year deposit rate to 3.25 percent from 3
percent.  Banks also led Turkish and Hungarian stocks higher.  Turkiye
Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN) , Turkey’s largest lender by market
capitalization, gained 2 percent. Budapest’s BUX Index rallied
3.2 percent after OTP Bank Nyrt., which accounts for 30 percent
of the measure’s weighting, increased 5.2 percent.  The Bovespa stock index fell 1.2 percent, the most in three
weeks, snapping a six-day advance, on concern potential
government measures to stem currency gains will drive away
foreign investors. Card-payment processors Cielo SA and Redecard
SA both slipped more than 4 percent.  Texas Instruments  Taiwanese chipmakers were boosted after Dallas-based  Texas
Instruments Inc. (TXN) , the biggest maker of analog chips, said it
would pay $6.5 billion for  National Semiconductor Corp. (NSM)  Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., the world’s largest contract
chipmaker, gained 3.1 percent while  United Microelectronics
Corp. (2303)  advanced 1.3 percent. Taiwanese markets were closed the
previous two days for public holidays.  The Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index of eastern European,
Middle East and Africa credit-default swaps eased 5 basis points
to 180 points.  The difference between the return investors demand from
emerging-market bonds and U.S. Treasuries fell 8 basis points to
246 at 5:06 p.m. New York time, according to the JPMorgan Chase
EMBI+ Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  