-- 
Energy Infrastructure Lacks Advanced Defense From Cyber Attacks

-- B y   K e l l y   R i d d e l l
-- 
2011-04-06T12:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/energy-infrastructure-lacks-advanced-defense-from-cyber-attacks.html
A majority of energy and  utility
companies  don’t use “state-of-the art” technology to defend
their networks and are exposing critical infrastructure to
sophisticated cyber attacks, according to an industry survey.  Sixty-seven percent of information-technology professionals
surveyed said their organizations had not deployed the best-
available security to guard against hackers and Internet
viruses, according to a report released today by  Ponemon
Institute LLC , an information-security research group.  Of the 291 security practitioners who responded to the
survey, 71 percent said their companies’ top executives don’t
understand or appreciate the value of information-technology
security, according to the report from Traverse City, Michigan-
based Ponemon. The group did not name the respondents’
companies, citing confidentiality.  “One of the big surprises in this survey was that despite
increasing cyber attacks on networks, the strategic importance
of IT security among C-level executives hasn’t increased,” said
Tom Turner, senior vice president of marketing and channels for
 Q1 Labs Inc. , a Waltham, Massachusetts-based security software
company that sponsored the survey. “It seems that the industry
is very reactive in terms of IT security investment.”  The report follows recent high-profile cyber attacks,
including the Stuxnet computer worm, which affects machines sold
by Munich-based  Siemens AG (SIE)  and can take over networks that run
factories and power plants. Most Stuxnet-infected computers are
in  Iran , prompting security analysts to speculate that the
country’s nuclear program was the target.  Voluntary Guidelines  The Ponemon report also identified shortcomings in adhering
to industrywide regulatory initiatives. Seventy-seven percent of
survey respondents said that compliance with industry security
standards did not rank as a priority at their organizations.  U.S. regulators currently lack the authority to issue and
enforce rules for protecting electric grids from cyberthreats,
leaving the industry to follow its own voluntary standards.
Those guidelines are set by the  North American Electric
Reliability Corp. , an industry self-regulatory group that helps
companies assess their ability to respond to potential attacks.  “We do see a number of organizations come to us to use our
technologies to meet NERC guidelines,” Turner said in an
interview. “However, compliance really depends on how
prescriptive the standards are. If the standards are too generic
then people are left to do what they deem best and perhaps that
doesn’t drive the level of security that a control standard
ought to.”  Combat Imminent Threats  U.S. lawmakers are pushing at least eight different
proposals aimed at boosting cybersecurity at energy and utility
companies, including measures giving the government power to
issue regulations and impose penalties.  Senator  Joe Lieberman , an Independent from  Connecticut  and
chairman of the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs
Committee, and Senator  Susan Collins  of  Maine , the panel’s top
Republican, introduced a bill Feb. 17 that would classify
utility companies as critical infrastructure and put them under
the regulatory supervision of the Homeland Security Department.  The Ponemon survey supports the findings in a U.S.
Government Accountability Office report issued in January and a
separate  Center for Strategic and International Studies  report
previewed in February.  The GAO  concluded  that the rapid adoption of smart-grid
technology may leave the U.S. vulnerable to cyber attacks,
unless it can address the nation’s fragmented and voluntary
regulatory environment, and improve cybersecurity planning.  Smart-Grid Technology  The CSIS report found that cybersecurity was an
afterthought in energy companies’ race to build so-called smart
grids, which aim to save electricity and lower costs by using
advanced technologies such as computerized meters to manage
electricity use and systems that monitor how much power home
appliances consume.  The risks associated with electric-grid computers were
illustrated four years ago when researchers at the  Idaho
National Laboratory , a U.S. Energy Department nuclear research
site, seized control of an electric generator over the Internet.
While the findings of Project Aurora, as it is called, are
classified, a leaked online video shows a generator emitting
black smoke as its controls are overtaken.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Riddell in Washington at 
 kriddell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  