-- 
Enron Ex-Chief Jeffrey Skilling’s Convictions Confirmed by Appeals Court

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-04-07T04:08:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/enron-ex-chief-jeffrey-skilling-s-convictions-confirmed-by-appeals-court.html
Jeffrey Skilling , the imprisoned
former Enron Corp. chief executive officer, lost a challenge to
his convictions contending that prosecutors relied on a legal
theory invalidated by the U.S. Supreme Court.  The U.S. Appeals Court in New Orleans yesterday affirmed
all of Skilling’s convictions. The three-judge panel said the
trial judge made a harmless error in allowing the jury to
convict Skilling for conspiracy on a so-called honest-services
fraud theory as well as on a  securities-fraud  theory.  “Based on our own thorough examination of the considerable
record in this case, we find that the jury was presented with
overwhelming evidence that Skilling conspired to commit
securities fraud, and thus we conclude beyond a reasonable doubt
that the verdict would have been the same absent the
alternative-theory error,” the appellate panel said.  In addition to conspiracy, Skilling was convicted at a 2006
 jury trial  for securities fraud, making false statements to
auditors and  insider trading .  Skilling is serving a 24-year sentence in a federal prison
in Colorado after he and former Enron Chairman Kenneth Lay were
found guilty of deceiving investors about the company’s true
financial condition.  “We disagree with the court’s decision and believe it does
not conform with the law,” Skilling’s lawyer,  Daniel Petrocelli , said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. “We will
continue to fight to overturn the wrongful convictions of Mr.
Skilling.”  After Skilling’s trial, the appeals court declared the
honest-services fraud theory legally invalid in an appeal by
four Merrill Lynch & Co. bankers, who were convicted in a
related Enron case. The appellate court said the bankers didn’t
deprive Enron of their honest services because they had acted in
Enron’s best interest and didn’t personally profit.  The  Supreme Court  last year ruled in Skilling’s favor,
finding that “honest services theft” only applies to instances
of bribery or kickbacks, which weren’t at issue in Enron. The
high court ordered the lower appellate court to review
Skilling’s convictions in light of this finding.  The appeals court said in yesterday’s ruling that according
to its ruling on Skilling’s initial appeal, he still needs to be
resentenced because the trial judge incorrectly applied a
“sentencing enhancement for substantially jeopardizing a
financial institution.”  The case is U.S. v. Skilling, 06-20885, U.S. District
Court,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Fifth Circuit (New
Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  