-- 
EPA’s Greenhouse-Gas Rules Targeted for Limits in U.S. House, Senate Votes

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 
2011-04-06T18:22:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/epa-s-greenhouse-gas-rules-targeted-for-limits-in-u-s-house-senate-votes.html
The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency’s power to regulate greenhouse gases blamed for  climate
change  may be in jeopardy as the House and Senate vote on
measures that would restrict the agency’s authority.  The Republican-led House today is considering legislation
sponsored by House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman  Fred Upton , a Michigan Republican, and the Democratic-controlled
Senate will vote on at least four measures to ban, delay or
restrict EPA limits on emissions spewed from tailpipes and
smokestacks.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration is at odds with
Republicans and some Democrats about whether the economy can
withstand curbs on pollution tied to global warming. Opponents
say rules will destroy jobs without providing any environmental
benefit, while advocates say the country can’t afford inaction.  “We ought to deal with climate change,” Senator  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat, said today on the Senate floor. “We
also ought to do so in a manner that doesn’t hurt the economy.”  Baucus is among at least three Democratic lawmakers who
offered EPA amendments to legislation aimed at helping small
businesses. Baucus’s measure keeps the greenhouse-gas rules
under the Clean Air Act in place, while exempting farmers,
ranchers and owners of small businesses.  Baucus said his proposal would ensure that about 15,000
stationary polluters, such as power plants, are covered by the
EPA carbon rules.  Senate Republican Leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky 
offered an amendment that would go the furthest in prohibiting
the EPA rules under the federal  Clean Air Act .  Carbon Rules Barred  McConnell’s measure and Upton’s legislation would bar the
agency from regulating any polluters and prohibit carbon limits
on vehicles after an agreement between the EPA and automakers
expires in 2017.  McConnell said his amendment would “prevent unelected
bureaucrats at the EPA from imposing a new national  energy
tax .”  Senator  Jay Rockefeller , a West Virginia Democrat, offered
an amendment that would delay the EPA rules for two years to
give Congress time to craft new U.S. energy policy.  The EPA’s rules, which took effect in January, were put
into place after Congress failed to pass legislation backed by
Obama to create a cap-and-trade system for pollution allowances.  Lawmakers such as Upton said the Clean Air Act was never
intended to regulate emissions such as carbon dioxide, an
odorless, invisible gas unlike smog, which is the law’s target.  Should Upton’s legislation reach Obama’s desk, aides would
recommend a presidential veto, the White House Office of
Management and Budget said yesterday.  Public Surveys  A February poll commissioned by the American Lung
Association found that 60 percent of people questioned said
Congress shouldn’t stop the EPA rules and 35 percent thought
lawmakers should bar the agency from limiting discharges of
carbon dioxide, a primary greenhouse gas.  The survey of 500 probable voters Feb. 7-14 by Democratic
polling firm Greenberg Quinlan Rosner Research and Republican
pollster Ayres, McHenry & Associates, according to the
Washington-based association, a health-advocacy group. The poll
had a margin of error of plus or minus 4.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  