-- 
Japan Plugs Radioactive Leak, Takes Steps to Prevent Explosion

-- B y   M i c h i o   N a k a y a m a ,   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 
2011-04-06T15:05:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/tepco-stops-leak-from-no-2-reactor-at-stricken-nuclear-station.html
Tokyo  Electric Power Co. prepared to
inject nitrogen into reactors to avoid a possible explosion at
its stricken nuclear power plant after succeeding in stopping
highly radioactive water leaking into the sea.  The utility, known as Tepco, was set to start feeding the
gas into the Fukushima Dai-Ichi No. 1 reactor container vessel
around 1 a.m. today, according to a press briefing in Tokyo late
yesterday. Tepco will later pump the gas into the Nos. 2 and 3
reactors to purge hydrogen and oxygen, which can interact and
cause an explosion.  There’s no immediate danger of a hydrogen explosion,
Hidehiko Nishiyama, an official at the Nuclear and Industrial
Safety Agency, said yesterday. Accumulation of hydrogen in the
days after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami triggered three
blasts at the station, damaging reactor buildings and releasing
radiation into the air.  “It’s a bit like locking the stable door after the horse
has bolted, but it’s a sensible thing to do,” said Tony
Roulstone, an atomic engineer who directs the University of
Cambridge’s masters program in nuclear energy. Tepco needs to
ensure there is no oxygen left in the reactor, and “it’s not a
simple thing,” he said.  Engineers used sodium-silicate to stop the release of
highly radioactive water near the No. 2 reactor, the utility
said yesterday. Tepco has previously tried plugging the leak
with materials including concrete, sawdust, newsprint and
absorbent polymer used in diapers.  New Threats  The country’s nuclear safety agency said water may be
leaking from another part of the station, which has six reactors
and is about 220 kilometers (137 miles) from Tokyo.  “This isn’t a situation where we can be relaxed at all,”
Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano told reporters yesterday.  Tepco has been pouring water to cool the reactors and spent
fuel after the March 11 disaster knocked out backup generators
and cooling systems, creating the worst nuclear crisis since
Chernobyl.  The measures being taken to stabilize the reactors are
posing new threats as filling reactor containment vessels with
water makes them vulnerable to rupturing when aftershocks occur,
the New York Times reported, citing a confidential March 26
report prepared by U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission engineers
sent to assist the Japanese government. Explosions may occur as
hydrogen and oxygen are released from the water, according to
the report, the Times said.  Tepco stock fell 6.9 percent to 337 yen, a record low, on
the Tokyo Stock Exchange yesterday. About 303 million shares
were traded, the most on record. The stock is down 84 percent
since the day before  Japan  was struck by the magnitude-9
earthquake, the country’s strongest on record.  Toxic Fish  The company’s 1.155 percent bonds due in Sept. 2020 fell
yesterday and were yielding 3.8 percent, or 2.56 percentage
points more than government bonds of similar maturity. The bonds
were yielding about 0.13 percentage points more than government
debt before the earthquake hit.  The utility began dumping 11.5 million liters (3 million
gallons) of water with low levels of radiation into the sea on
April 3. Tepco said yesterday that 7 million liters of such
water has been discharged.  Officials from Ibaraki on April 5 detected fish
contaminated with higher-than-acceptable levels of Cesium, the
first discovery of tainted seafood in Japan after the station
was damaged.  Exposure to Cesium-137, among the isotopes Tepco says were
released from the plant, increases the risk of cancer, according
to the  U.S. Environmental Protection Agency .  Iodine Declines  The risk to people from the deliberate discharge at the
Fukushima plant is low, according to the Vienna-based
 International Atomic Energy Agency .  The level of radioactive iodine in seawater sampled near
the No. 2 reactor April 5 fell to 280,000 times the amount
allowed by regulators, Tepco said. Samples taken on April 2 at
the same location found 7.5 million times the permitted amount.  About 60,000 tons of contaminated water lies in basements
and trenches outside reactor Nos. 1, 2 and 3, Takeo Iwamoto, a
company spokesman, said April 5. Tokyo Electric plans to pump
half of that to a waste-treatment facility and the rest to tanks
and floating storage vessels, he said.  Japan has also asked  Russia  to send a ship capable of
processing nuclear waste.  The number of dead and missing following the earthquake and
tsunami was at 27,631 at 8 p.m. local time yesterday, according
to the  National Police Agency .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michio Nakayama in Tokyo at 
 mnakayama4@bloomberg.net ;
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net ;
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  