-- 
EU Seeks to Facilitate Early Sales of Carbon Permits by EIB

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-04-06T12:25:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/eu-seeks-to-facilitate-early-sales-of-carbon-permits-by-eib.html
The European Union said it is
considering options to bring forward sales of carbon-dioxide
permits from a post-2012 reserve to spur clean-energy projects.  The  European Investment Bank  is due before 2013 to sell 300
million CO2 allowances from the reserve for new companies in the
EU emissions-trading system and to disburse the revenue via
national governments to aid projects for renewable energy and
carbon capture and storage. The sales will also ensure early
supply of allowances from the next trading period of the EU
emissions program before it starts on Jan. 1, 2013.  The EIB said this week that it is “cooperating closely”
with the European Commission, the EU executive in Brussels, to
define when the  delivery  of the allowances could take place.
Sales are due to start within a month of the allowances being
made available to the EIB and can be carried out before an EU
registry to be created to track transactions and ownership of
permits in the so-called third phase is fully operational,
according to the bank.  “In the context of the forthcoming amendment of the
emissions trading system registries regulation, the commission
considers options to facilitate an early delivery of the
allowances to the EIB,” Isaac Valero-Ladron, climate spokesman
at the commission, said today by e-mail.  The EU cap-and-trade system started in 2005 with a three-
year trading period, is now in a second phase that ends in 2012
and will enter a third stage through 2020.  Third Phase  In the third phase, the single registry will replace a
network of national registries. The EU, which has said the
carbon database will be operational next year, is now drafting
changes to rules on the registry to ensure better safety after a
series of computer-hacking attacks in recent months.  The EU, which gave away the majority of allowances since
starting the world’s biggest emissions trading program, will
require most emitters to buy their allotment of permits from
2013. Power producers, including  Germany ’s second-biggest
utility,  RWE AG (RWE) , have said they need phase-three permits
immediately to hedge their future electricity sales.  The volume to be sold from the reserve, known as NER300, is
about 15 percent of an average annual quota in the current five-
year trading period that started in 2008. The EIB said on April
4 that it is considering the sale of permits through auctions,
on an exchange, in over-the-counter transactions or “a
combination of channels.”  The  maximum period  for the sale of the first 200 million
was agreed to be nine months, the Luxembourg-based EIB said
today on its website. The allowances will be sold before the
commission decides on the first awards to projects competing for
the funding. The EU executive has estimated the verdicts will be
announced in the second half of 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net ; 