-- 
EU Seen Compromised by Government Auctions Favoring Dealers

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-04-06T23:00:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/eu-seen-compromised-by-government-auctions-favoring-dealers-over-investors.html
When  Stuart Thomson  at Ignis Asset
Management in Glasgow was waiting for the results of Portugal’s
January bond auction, he didn’t know that government-picked bond
dealers got the results early, giving them a head start in
judging the sale’s success.  Portugal’s debt agency, IGCP, sent the results of its sale
of 2014 and 2020 securities on Jan. 12 to its 18 primary
dealers, financial companies required to bid at bond auctions, a
few minutes before the information was made available to the
public, three people with knowledge of the matter said. The
country, which became the third European nation to seek a
bailout, routinely gives dealers an advantage, they said,
providing an opportunity to buy or sell before the details reach
the public.  While legal in the euro region, money managers say the
practice in  Portugal  and at least Italy and Austria may
undermine the European Union’s credibility with investors at a
time when they need them most. The EU and International Monetary
Fund have already bailed out Greece and Ireland, and late
yesterday Portugal asked for aid.  “Everyone who has an interest in a bond auction should get
the results at the same time,” said Thomson, who helps oversee
$110 billion in  assets . “This is market sensitive information.
It should not be the case that certain groups have an investment
advantage.”  Important Indicator  Bond auctions have become more important than ever as an
indicator of investor confidence as the euro region’s sovereign-
debt crisis deepens. Before yesterday, HSBC Holdings Plc
forecast Portugal,  Italy  and Spain would sell a combined 320
billion euros ($456 billion) of debt this year alone.  Debt sales by countries such as Portugal have become “big
market events over the last year” because there’s a growing
risk of a failed auction, where investors refuse to buy all of
the securities on offer, said  Steven Major , global head of
fixed-income research at HSBC in  London .  The IGCP typically gives dealers advance word, said the
people familiar with the practice who asked not to be identified
because they’re not authorized to speak to the press about the
procedure. Primary dealers see details of their allotment and
so-called tender summary results, which include prices, yields
and the amount of bids compared with the securities on offer,
via the Bloomberg Auction System before the information is seen
by other traders and investors.  ‘Standard’ Practices  Alberto Soares, head of the debt office in Lisbon, said
“we follow standard market practices,” declining to comment
further. Primary dealers in  Austria  and Italy also receive the
results before they are made available to the public, according
to their debt agencies. The gap on Italian sales is a few
seconds and occurs because of technical reasons, not policy,
said a spokeswoman at the Bank of Italy in  Rome , who asked not
to be identified because of central bank policy.  Portugal’s January auction wasn’t a single occurrence.
Primary dealers received the results of an April 1 sale by the
nation of 1.65 billion euros in June 2012 securities before
details were made available to the public, two of the people
familiar with the matter said.  “In the past, this kind of practice might not be noticed
at all, but the crisis has changed all that,” said Thomson.
“We give premiums to liquidity and transparency. If your debt
market is illiquid, your credit standing is questionable, and
your practice is not transparent, it’s unlikely that we will
treat your bonds like sovereign securities.”  U.K., Ireland  The U.K. Debt Management Office also uses the Bloomberg
system, giving their 20 primary dealers the results at the same
time as the market, according to the debt agency.  Ireland gives its primary dealers details of the highest,
lowest, and average prices first so they can assess what they
have bought, before providing the complete results to everyone
in the market, according to the National Treasury Management
Agency. The nation hasn’t sold debt since it received an EU-led
bailout in November.  The EU’s financial services department said it has no say
over auction practices of member countries.  “From the perspective of compliance with the market abuse
directive, the directive doesn’t apply to activities of a member
state carried out in pursuit of its debt-management policy,”
said  Chantal Hughes , a spokeswoman for  Michel Barnier , the EU’s
financial services commissioner.  ‘Same For All’  Debt agencies in the U.K,  France , and  Spain  said their
dealers receive auction results at the same time as the market.
The  U.S. government  makes the outcomes of debt sales available
to everyone at the same time through the Treasury Automated
Auction Processing System, or TAAP.  “Our result is published at the same time for primary
dealers, investors or journalists,” said Pierre Salaun, a
spokesman for Agence France Tresor in Paris. “We don’t want one
participant to have information others don’t have. It’s the same
for all the information we publish.”  The  bond market  has become increasingly volatile around
auctions. The average daily move of Portuguese five-year bond
yields in January was about 10 basis points, or 0.1 percentage
point, higher or lower from the previous day’s closing levels,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The five-year yield jumped 35 basis points, or 0.35
percentage point, on Jan. 6, when the IGCP said it would sell
October 2014 notes the following week. The five-year yield fell
14 basis points on the day the securities were sold.  Dealer Roles  Primary dealers are expected to participate when
governments auction debt to ensure there’s enough demand to keep
borrowing costs low. Dealers have an obligation to buy a certain
amount of debt issued each year and to take the risk they might
not be able to sell the bonds afterward.  In return, dealers benefit because, in most cases,
investors have to buy the securities being auctioned. Central
banks and some pension funds will only do business with such
firms.  “In an ideal world, this type of information should be
released to everyone at the same time,” said Chris Golden,
chairman of the  European Bond Commission  in London. “This
practice is acceptable so long as everyone knows the rule, or
they can find out from publicly available information that’s the
rule. This advantage might be part of the package that
compensates them for some obligations they have to take on as
primary dealers.”  Portugal’s Dealers  Portugal’s dealers are: Banco Espirito Santo SA, Banco
Santander SA, Barclays Plc, BNP Paribas SA, Caixa Banco de
Investimento SA, Citigroup Inc., Credit Agricole Corporate &
Investment Bank, Credit Suisse Group AG, Deutsche Bank AG,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., HSBC, ING Groep NV, Jefferies Group
Inc., Morgan Stanley, Nomura International Plc, Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc, Societe Generale SA, and UniCredit SpA.  Citigroup, Deutsche Bank, and Goldman Sachs declined to
comment on Portugal’s auction procedures. The other dealers
didn’t respond to questions.  The euro region’s most indebted nations have faced record
borrowing costs after the sovereign-debt crisis erupted in 2009,
when  Greece ’s new Socialist government said the  budget deficit 
was twice what the previous administration reported.  Aid measures, including a 750 billion-euro EU-IMF backstop
created 11 months ago, and plans to beef up rescue mechanisms
after 2013, have failed to ward off bond yields soaring to all-
time highs and credit downgrades.  Relative Yields  The extra yield investors demand for holding 10-year Irish
bonds instead of the benchmark German debt surged to a record
6.99 percentage points on March 31. The cost of insuring against
a default on Portuguese sovereign debt with credit-default swaps
rose to 5.79 percentage points on March 31, even as the
government said the country didn’t need a bailout.  Portugal’s IGCP has said it intends to sell as much as 20
billion euros of bonds this year to finance the budget and repay
maturing securities. The country faces bond redemptions of about
9.1 billion euros on April 15 and June 15. It will need to raise
at least 32 billion euros between 2012 and 2014 to repay bonds
coming due.  Portuguese “auction results should have been disseminated
to everyone who has an interest in the sale at the same time,
instead of market makers getting priority treatment,” said
Robin Marshall, a London-based money manager who helps oversee
about $20 billion at Smith & Williamson Investment Management.
“I don’t think it’s right that anyone should get a leading
edge, when everyone bid for it on the same basis.”  Political Instability  Yields on Portugal’s 10-year debt rose to records relative
to bunds this week after Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  resigned
following opposition parties’ rejection of budget cuts.  Standard & Poor’s  cut Portugal’s classification for the
second time in a week on March 29, citing concern new EU bailout
rules may mean the nation reneges on its debt.  Fitch Ratings 
lowered its ranking on April 1, and said it may downgrade the
rating to below investment grade.  A rescue package for Portugal may total as much as 70
billion euros, two European officials with direct knowledge of
the matter said last week.  EU governments will wait for Portugal to make a formal
request before assessing the terms and size of any bailout, said
a German government official, who spoke on condition of
anonymity yesterday. The IMF stands ready to assist, though it
hasn’t been asked for aid, a spokesman said in an e-mailed
statement.  ‘Crisis of Confidence’  Europe ’s debt market has been dogged by other disclosure
incidents. Greece hid 5.3 billion euros of debt by using
derivatives, the biggest of which were with Goldman Sachs,
Eurostat, the region’s official provider of statistical
information, said in November.  The off-market swaps allowed Greece to receive payments
upfront and helped to reduce the country’s foreign-denominated
debt by 2.37 billion euros in 2001, according to a statement by
Goldman Sachs on Feb. 21, 2010.  Greece entered into a “large” number of such off-market
swaps from 2001 through 2007, according to Eurostat. Italy,
 Germany ,  Poland  and Belgium also used them, and they adjusted
their debt figures after Eurostat queried the practice in 2008.  “The euro region is facing not just a debt crisis, but
also a crisis of confidence,” said Oliver Holtemoeller, head of
the macro-economic department at the Halle-based IWH research
institute in Germany. “When things are not what it may appear
or don’t have credibility,” he said, “it’s hard to maintain
confidence among investors and the public.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  