-- 
European Stocks Retreat, U.S. Futures Rise; Deutsche Bank Shares Decline

-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 
2011-04-06T09:15:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/european-stocks-retreat-u-s-futures-rise-deutsche-bank-shares-decline.html
European stocks fell as investors
sold banks that may need to raise capital and assessed the
impact of a likely increase in  interest rates  tomorrow. Asian
shares were little changed and U.S. index futures gained.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  dropped more than 2
percent.  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  climbed 2.7 percent as it detailed plans
to repay government aid and said operating profit is “above
plan.”  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  advanced 1.1 percent as Italy’s
second-biggest bank also gave details of an expected capital
increase.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index fell 0.2 percent to 280.36 at
10:15 a.m. in London, a day after Federal Reserve minutes showed
U.S. policy makers are divided over whether to maintain record
stimulus past June. Even so, the benchmark measure has advanced
6.9 percent from this year’s low on March 16 as investors
speculated that the economic recovery will withstand  Japan ’s
worst earthquake on record and popular revolts in the Middle
East and north  Africa .  “The picture for us is not to be negative on equities, but
there are some headwinds,” said Valentijn van Nieuwenhuijzen,
head of tactical  asset allocation  at ING Investment Management,
which oversees $518 billion. “We are now entering a phase where
developed markets’ cyclical indicators will start to peak.”  The  European Central Bank  may tomorrow raise borrowing
costs for the first time in almost three years as policy makers
try to contain inflation, according to the median estimate of
economists polled by Bloomberg. Swiss consumer prices
accelerated in March more than economists had forecast.  “Inflation is rising in the developed economies and this
could trigger the European Central Bank, especially, to raise
rates as soon as April,” wrote HSBC Holdings Plc strategists
including  Garry Evans  in a report to investors today. “The
first rate hike, we find, typically puts pressure on equities.”  Fed Monetary Policy  U.S. stocks erased earlier gains yesterday as minutes from
the Fed’s policy meeting last month showed central bankers
differed on what path monetary policy should follow after the
completion of their $600 billion bond-purchase program. The
purchases have helped push the Stoxx 600 78 percent higher since
March 2009.  A “few” among the central bank’s 17 governors and
regional bank presidents said tighter credit may be warranted
this year, while a “few others noted that exceptional policy
accommodation could be appropriate beyond 2011,” the Federal
Open Market Committee said in the minutes, released yesterday in
 Washington .  June futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.3
percent to 1,330.8, while the MSCI Asia Pacific Index was
unchanged.  Portugal  Bond Sale  Portugal plans to tap investors for as much as 1 billion
euros today with the clock ticking on Prime Minister Jose Socrates’s lame-duck government. Analysts say that a bailout for
the country is all but inevitable.  Deutsche Bank fell 2.3 percent to 40.93 euros after the
Wall Street Journal reported that  Germany ’s biggest bank will
seek shareholder approval to raise as much as 18 billion euros
in fresh capital, citing the bank’s invitation to a shareholder
meeting.  UniCredit, Italy’s biggest bank by assets, dropped 2.1
percent to 1.70 euros. The shares were cut to “neutral” from
“buy” at BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research, which cited the
need for more capital.  Societe General declined 2.3 percent to 44.27 euros and
 Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  slid 2.1 percent to 11.35 euros.  Commerzbank Climbs  Commerzbank gained 2.7 percent to 5.76 euros. Germany’s
second-largest lender plans a capital increase of 8.25 billion
euros and Germany’s bank-rescue fund, Soffin, will convert
silent participations into 2.75 billion euros of shares, the
lender said in a statement today. Commerzbank will also redeem
silent participations of 3.27 billion euros with excess
regulatory capital, it said.  Based on preliminary figures, operating profit is “above
plan” and full-year earnings will be higher than in 2010, the
bank said today. Commerzbank will book a one-time payment to
Soffin of 1.03 billion euros in the second quarter. The lender
said it may pay a dividend for the 2012 financial year.  Intesa Sanpaolo  Intesa increased 1.1 percent to 2.15 euros after saying it
plans to raise as much as 5 billion euros by selling new shares
to boost capital by July. The Italian bank forecast net income
of 4.2 billion euros for 2013.  On April 1, the bank said it would announce its position on
a capital increase after an April 5 board meeting. In its April
1 statement, Intesa was responding to a newspaper report that it
planned a 5 billion-euro capital increase.  “Some banks you already expected them to tap the market,
the question is who is next,” said Luis Benguerel, trader at
Interbrokers in Barcelona. “The first capital increases are
relatively easy, then it starts getting harder for the second
ones.”  Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS)  surged 5 percent to 357.1 pence
after saying that its gross margin will rise as much as 25 basis
points in 2012. The British retailer said that quarterly like-
for-like sales for U.K. general merchandise fell 3.9 percent.
That beat an estimate for a 6 percent decline.  Pirelli & C. SpA jumped 3.1 percent to 6.57 euros, its
fourth straight advance. Europe’s third-largest tiremaker was
upgraded to “overweight” from “underweight” at Morgan
Stanley, which said the Italian company may surprise positively
with its earnings growth.  Hugo Boss AG (BOS)  gained 2.3 percent to 61.94 euros. The German
clothier was raised to “buy” from “hold” at Deutsche Bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in  London  at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net . 