-- 
Ex-Deutsche Bank Saba Prop Trader Leads Hedge Fund to 200% Gain

-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 
2011-04-06T02:26:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/ex-deutsche-bank-saba-prop-trader-leads-hedge-fund-to-200-gain.html
Prudence Enhanced Income Fund, led
by former  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  Saba proprietary trader Chad Liu,
returned 200 percent in two years trading credit and convertible
bonds sold by Chinese companies internationally.  The Hong Kong-based hedge fund, which started in January
2009, beat the Eurekahedge Asia Fixed Income Hedge Fund Index’s
35 percent gain in the same period. Assets increased to more 
than $250 million from $30 million, Liu, Prudence Investment
Management’s chief investment officer, said in an interview
yesterday.  Prudence profited by picking up bonds whose value recovered
from the lows during the global financial crisis, helping drive
a China dollar bond index compiled by JPMorgan Chase & Co. 34
percent higher since October 2008. HSBC Holdings Plc estimated
last month that new issuances of dim sum bonds, yuan-denominated
debt sold in  Hong Kong , may rise to as much as 150 billion yuan
($23 billion) this year.  “The market overall is still robust, if you look at new
issues and the response to new issues,” said Liu, 39. “In this
part of the world, a lot of the financing is still mostly for
growth,” instead of funding leveraged buyouts or refinancing
old debt as is often the case in the U.S. and  Europe , he added.  The fund also tried to time market turns last year and
traded pairs of bonds mispriced relative to each other after the
bond price recovery in 2009, said Liu.  Nine Dragons  The fund returned 98 percent in 2009. Half of the returns
came from buying cheap credit and selling short overpriced bonds,
and the other half from trading debt affected by events such as
new bond sales, buybacks and refinancing, Liu said. Short
selling involves selling borrowed securities with the
expectation they can be bought back cheaper.  One of its best trades was Nine Dragons Paper Holding Ltd.,
 China ’s biggest maker of containerboard for packaging whose
profit plummeted 69 percent in the six months ended December
2008 amid the global recession and raw material costs. Prudence
started to buy Nine Dragons bonds when the company made an offer
in February 2009 to buy back its five-year notes at 53 cents on
the dollar.  Prudence paid a notch over the company’s offer, believing
the Nine Dragons’ results would improve and taking the buyback
as evidence of financial health. It sold the bonds in July for a
profit when Nine Dragons made another tender offer for bonds at
their face value, Liu said.  Relative Value  The Prudence Enhanced Income Fund returned 48 percent last
year. An estimated 20 percent of the gain came from relative-
value trades as the  bond market  became more volatile, Liu said.
Relative trades seek to profit from the mispricing of two
related debt securities such as between bonds and convertible
bonds or two bonds with different maturities issued by the same
company.  It also tried to time market turns, selling its holdings in
March last year and buying during the May correction, Liu said.
The fund returned 3 percent in the first three months this year.  Bond sales being marketed and in the pipeline as well as
responses to them highlight demand for debt sold by Chinese
companies will remain strong, Liu said.  The government and companies sold a record 35.7 billion
yuan of dim sum bonds in Hong Kong last year, twice the 16
billion yuan in 2009. Yuan deposits in Hong Kong hit a record
407.7 billion yuan in February, six times the year-ago figure,
according to the Hong Kong Monetary Authority.  Income Fund  Liu traded Chinese bonds, stocks and private placements for
two years for Deutsche Bank’s Saba desk, which once managed $10
billion. He left in late 2008 to set up Prudence with ex-
Deutsche Bank private banker Wang Yuan and Philip Wu, former
chief executive officer of Wing Lung Bank Ltd. before the
family-controlled Hong Kong bank was sold to China Merchants
Bank Co. in 2008. Wu provided the majority of the initial
capital of Prudence’s maiden fund, Liu said.  In January, Prudence started the Prudence RMB Income Fund,
which buys and holds dim sum bonds and yuan-denominated dollar-
settled bonds sold by Chinese companies, said Mason Wu. Wu, son
of Philip Wu, joined Prudence as a partner in January and co-
manages the fund with Liu.  Prudence started the fund, which does not short sell, after
China eased restrictions on companies and institutions to buy
yuan, resulting in a changing mix of investors in the
traditionally retail-dominated dim sum bond market, said Wu.  The fund started with $20 million and has grown to more
than $50 million, raising money from Asian insurers and other
companies, said Liu. It has returned about 7 percent, he added.  “The turning point has arrived,” added Liu. “The market
has certainly become big enough and liquid enough for
institutions to get in.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  