-- 
Peru Ex-Rebel Humala Driving Up Bond-Default Risk Before Presidential Vote

-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o   a n d   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-04-06T21:24:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/ex-rebel-humala-sparks-increase-in-default-swaps-before-election.html
The cost of insuring  Peru ’s debt
against default is jumping to a five-year high relative to
neighboring Colombia on concern former renegade army colonel
Ollanta Humala will win the presidential vote and expand
government control of the economy.  Peruvian five-year credit-default swaps rose 35 basis
points since polls released March 20 showed Humala gaining
popularity, to 154 yesterday, or 49 more than similar contracts
on Colombia, according to CMA. The gap was 1 basis point on
March 16, the day  Standard & Poor’s  raised Colombia’s credit
rating to the same BBB- level as Peru, citing President  Juan Manuel Santos ’s policies that cut crime and lured investment.  Peru and Colombia have benefitted from increased foreign
investment in mining and energy in the past decade as they
reclaimed areas that were under guerrilla control, resulting in
the fastest economic growth for both countries in 20 years.
Humala’s rise in polls before this weekend’s first-round vote
pushed up Peru’s borrowing costs and sent the sol to the biggest
drop among emerging-market currencies since March 20.  “You have a clear direction of policy mix in  Colombia 
going forward, while in Peru you don’t have that,” said Bret Rosen, a Latin America debt strategist with Standard Chartered
Bank in New York. “The fear is that Peru will face an important
change in the investment climate.”  Gain in Polls  Humala, 48, had 26 percent support in a poll published
April 3 by Lima-based researcher Ipsos Apoyo, up from 21 percent
a week earlier, putting him in first place among candidates
vying to succeed President  Alan Garcia  for a five-year term.
Three candidates were in a virtual tie for second place,
according to the Ipsos Apoyo poll.  Humala, chief of Peru’s Nationalist Party and an ally of
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez , was in fourth place in polls a
month ago. He also consolidated his lead in polls published in
the past week by researchers CPI and Datum Internacional.  While Humala has vowed to renegotiate mining and natural
gas contracts with foreign investors as he seeks to make South
America’s sixth-largest economy less dependent on outside
investment and exports, Colombia’s Santos, 59, has pledged to
avoid “changing the rules of the game” for foreign investors,
saying in an interview March 31 that he wouldn’t raise mining or
oil taxes.  “I want foreign investors to see Colombia as a serious
country,” he said.  Colombia lured $6.76 billion of foreign direct investment
in 2010 -- of which 73 percent went into oil and mining -- after
$7.14 billion in 2009 and a record $10.6 billion in 2008,
according to the central bank.  Economic Growth  Peru is set to receive $50 billion of mining, energy and
infrastructure investments during the next five years, according
to the  Finance Ministry . Foreign direct investment was $7.32
billion last year and may rise to $8.17 billion in 2011, the
central bank estimates.  During the past 10 years, Colombia recorded average
economic growth of 4.1 percent, compared with 5.7 percent in
Peru.  The extra cost to insure Peru’s debt instead of Colombia’s
is at its highest since May 2006. The yield on Peru’s 6.55
percent dollar bonds due March 2037 rose 27 basis points, or
0.27 percentage point, to 6 percent since March 20, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on Colombia’s 7.375
percent dollar bonds due in September 2037 has increased 10
basis points over the same period to 5.98 percent.  Worst Performer  Peru’s currency, the sol, has declined 1.6 percent since
March 20, the worst performance among 25 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The Lima General Index has
fallen 6.4 percent in the past month, the fourth worst
performance among 90 primary indexes tracked by Bloomberg.  “While everyone had expected this to be a non-event
election, we were proven wrong,” said Marjorie Hernandez, a
currency strategist at HSBC Holdings Plc in  New York . “The
market was not positioned that way. Everyone was long Peru
everything.”  Keiko Fujimori, a Peruvian congresswoman and daughter of
the former president, had 18 percent support in the Ipsos Apoyo
poll. Former President  Alejandro Toledo  had 17 percent, and
former Finance Minister Pedro Pablo Kuczynski had 16 percent.
The survey of 2,000 people was taken from March 26 to April 1
and had a margin of error of 2.2 percentage points.  A runoff between the two leading candidates will be held on
June 5 if no one wins more than 50 percent in the first round of
balloting on April 10.  Peaceful Revolt  Peru’s Congress approved an amnesty for Humala in 2000
after he seized control of a mining town and led a peaceful
revolt to protest the corruption that beset the government of
then-President  Alberto Fujimori , who later fled into exile.  Cynthya Montes, a spokeswoman for the Nationalist Party,
didn’t respond to an e-mailed request for comment.  Even as Humala’s popularity climbs before the first-round
of elections, Rosen, Hernandez and  Eduardo Suarez , a strategist
at  RBC Capital Markets  in Toronto, all predict Humala will lose
in a second-round ballot as voters who dislike Humala will rally
around his opponent.  Suarez said in a report March 29 that Humala’s chance of
becoming president is about 20 percent, and that recent declines
in asset prices are overdone.  “The current sell-off should be seen as a buying
opportunity, but timing is key,” he wrote.  Venezuelan Model  Humala, who said during his campaign for president in 2006
that foreign companies were “looting” the country’s resources,
said in a televised debate this week that he supports an “open
and market economy” and backs investment that creates jobs. He
also distanced himself from Chavez, who has nationalized most of
the cement industry, imposed price controls and devalued the
currency. Humala said March 31 that “the Venezuelan model of
government isn’t applicable in Peru.”  A Humala presidency would hurt investors, Hernandez said.  “If Humala comes to power we definitely will see a big
shift in policies,” Hernandez said. “I don’t think anyone
trusts that this change in strategy ahead of the campaign is
really an earnest change.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net ;
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  