-- 
Mexico’s Interjet Considers $200 Million IPO to Fund Growth

-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z   a n d   A d r i a n a   L o p e z   C a r a v e o
-- 
2011-04-06T22:21:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/mexico-s-interjet-considers-200-million-ipo-to-fund-growth.html
Interjet, a low-cost Mexican
airline, will decide within two weeks whether to hold an initial
public offering that may be worth “around $200 million,” said
Miguel Aleman Velasco, the company’s founder and chairman.  Interjet, controlled by ABC Aerolineas SA, is talking with
potential underwriters to sell a stake of at least 15 percent,
Aleman said today in an interview at Bloomberg’s  Mexico  City
offices. Market conditions at the moment favor an IPO over a
bond sale or taking on a new private partner, he said.  The money raised would help the Mexico City-based airline
fund its plan to double the number of passengers it carries to 8
million by the end of the year, Aleman said. Interjet, founded
in 2005, ordered 15 SuperJet regional airplanes from Sukhoi
Civil Aircraft Co. this year with the option to buy five more.
The Mexican airline also leased two Airbus SAS A320 jets.  Interjet and Grupo Aeromexico SA, the country’s biggest
airline, are adding routes and buying jets after their largest
rival, Cia. Mexicana de Aviacion, filed for bankruptcy and
halted operations last year.  Interjet  had the highest domestic
market share in Mexico during February, with 24 percent,
according to data compiled by the  Ministry of Communications and
Transportation .  Interjet may sell a stake of as much as 20 percent in the
IPO, beyond the 15 percent required by the stock exchange for a
new listing, Aleman said.  Aleman, 79, is the son of late Mexican President Miguel
Aleman Valdes and is former board member at Grupo Televisa SA,
the world’s biggest Spanish-language broadcaster.  Aleman said Interjet could be valued at $1.2 billion at the
time of a potential IPO. He expects the airline’s revenue to
double this year, while net income should grow at a lower rate
due to higher  oil prices .  Interjet’s 2010 sales rose 51 percent to $404 million from
$268 million the previous year. Profit rose more than seven-fold
to $49 million last year, according to a presentation provided
by Aleman.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net ;
Adriana Lopez Caraveo in Mexico City at 
 adrianalopez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  