-- 
FAA Chief Orders Review of Older-Jet Checks After 737 Cracks

-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y   a n d   J o h n   H u g h e s
-- 
2011-04-06T21:58:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/faa-chief-orders-review-of-agency-s-older-plane-inspections-1-.html
The Federal Aviation Administration
chief ordered a review of his agency’s oversight program for
aging aircraft after the fuselage of a  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV) 
jet ruptured in flight last week.  “Friday’s event was very serious,” FAA Administrator
Randy Babbitt told the U.S. House of Representatives
Appropriations Committee’s transport panel today in  Washington .  The review will examine whether the FAA is “asking the
right questions” and using the best data in its program
designed to ensure that the oldest aircraft flying are safe, he
said.  The FAA in November  issued a rule  giving planemakers five
years to establish inspection plans for more than 4,000 older
jets registered in the U.S. alone. Airlines then were supposed
to have six years to implement the plans, designed to prevent
so-called widespread fatigue damage to aircraft.  The FAA and  Boeing Co. (BA) , maker of the 737-300 jet involved
in the April 1 incident over  Arizona , said yesterday that metal-
fatigue inspections must be stepped up on older models of the
plane. The aircraft whose hull opened up in midair showed signs
of cracking far earlier than the Chicago-based manufacturer
expected.  737 Classics  Cracks on the so-called 737 Classics that were built
between 1993 and 1999 weren’t predicted to occur until “much
later,” after 60,000 cycles of takeoffs and landings, Paul
Richter, Boeing’s chief project engineer for older jets, said
yesterday. Southwest’s plane will be 15 years old in June and
had flown 39,781 cycles.  “This is something that was not forecast and happened in
an area that we’re going to take another look at,” Babbitt said
in an interview.  While 15-year-old planes aren’t among the oldest in the
U.S. airliner fleet, Dallas-based Southwest flies its jets more
often as part of its effort to curb costs and fares. North
American carriers have more planes that are 20 years or older
than any other region in the world, according to data from
aviation research firm Ascend.  Southwest, the world’s biggest discount carrier, is the
largest operator of the 737 Classics that were built with the
same kind of lap joints as the one that ruptured last week,
Ascend data show. Southwest has 90 of those planes, followed by
 United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  with 32 and China Southern
Airlines Co. with 24.  General Electric Co. (GE) ’s GECAS leasing unit
manages the largest fleet of affected planes, with 103.  175 Planes  Only about 175 planes worldwide that have flown more than
30,000 flights need to be checked this week, though Boeing said
eventually about 570 aircraft will need to be examined for
cracking. The company changed the design for more recent models
called Next-Generation 737s starting in 2000.  Boeing has built almost 6,700 737s since the plane first
flew in 1967 and has a backlog for more than 2,100 more. The
single-aisle jet, along with Airbus SAS’s A320, is the backbone
of the aviation industry, used chiefly on domestic and short-
haul flights.  Carriers with 737 Classics around the world said they’re
inspecting their planes, including:  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  and
its BMIbaby unit;  Malaysian Airline System Bhd. (MAS) ; SAS AB;
 Norwegian Air Shuttle AS (NAS) ; four Japanese carriers including Japan
Airlines Corp. and All Nippon Airways Co.;  Alaska Air Group
Inc. (ALK) ; and  Air New Zealand Ltd. (AIR)  Lufthansa and other carriers said
the work can be done during scheduled ground time to avoid
flight disruptions.  Checking for Cracks  One inspector on each side of the plane, using
electromagnetic technology with a handheld instrument, can check
a 50-foot section of the top fuselage for cracks in about eight
hours per jet, Boeing said. Airlines that find cracks will need
to collaborate with Boeing on how best to fix their aircraft,
and will probably need to cut out and replace sections of the
fuselage.  United Continental,  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC) , China Southern,
British Airways Plc and London-based Jet2 said their 737
Classics don’t meet the criteria set out by the FAA for
requiring urgent checks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Hughes in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net ;
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  