-- 
FAA to Fire Second Air-Traffic Controller Who Slept on Duty

-- B y   J o h n   H u g h e s
-- 
2011-04-06T18:56:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/faa-to-fire-second-air-traffic-controller-who-slept-on-duty-2-.html
(Corrects tower description in fourth paragraph.)  A second U.S. air-traffic controller
who slept on an overnight shift, this time on purpose, is in the
process of being fired, Federal Aviation Administration chief
Randy Babbitt said.  “It wasn’t fatigue-related,” Babbitt said in an
interview. “This is someone who, in our investigation, just
went in and prepared to go to sleep, take a nap, and that’s
absolutely not acceptable.”  The incident occurred at the McGhee Tyson Airport in
Knoxville,  Tennessee , on February 19, the agency said in an e-
mailed statement after Babbitt’s interview.  The airport has two facilities on separate floors, a radar
room and the tower, each of which is staffed by one controller
on the midnight shift. One controller had to do both jobs,
handling seven aircraft over a five-hour period, after the other
controller failed to respond, the agency said. All seven planes
landed safely, it said.  Babbitt first mentioned the incident, without specifying
details, in comments to the House Appropriations Committee’s
transport panel today in Washington.  The possibility of controllers sleeping became a concern
after a lone worker on duty at the Ronald Reagan  Washington 
National Airport tower told investigators he dozed off March 23
after midnight, before two planes carrying a combined 154 people
landed. That controller, a supervisor, has been suspended.  Babbitt, in the interview, said he learned during the
investigation of the Reagan incident that disciplinary
proceedings were underway regarding the other controller who
slept on duty.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Hughes in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  