-- 
Fed’s Biggest Foreign-Bank Bailout Kept U.S. Municipal Finance on Track

-- B y   B o b   I v r y
-- 
2011-04-07T02:00:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/fed-s-biggest-foreign-bank-bailout-kept-u-s-municipal-finance-on-track.html
A European bank that got the most
Federal Reserve discount window help during the financial crisis
received a total of about $300 billion in loans, guarantees and
cash infusions from governments and central banks. It also owned
subsidiaries implicated in bid-rigging that prosecutors say
defrauded U.S. taxpayers.  Details of Fed lending released last week show that  Dexia
SA (DEXB) , based in Brussels and Paris, borrowed as much as $37
billion, with an average daily loan amount of $12.3 billion in
the 18 months after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed in
September 2008. The House subcommittee that oversees the Fed
plans hearings on the central bank’s discount window lending to
offshore financial institutions next month.  By lending to Dexia, the Fed kept money flowing into local
government projects throughout the U.S. as well as the money
market funds that invested in them. Dexia guaranteed bonds
issued by entities as varied as the  Texas State Veterans Land
Board  in Austin and the Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority.  “If Dexia went bankrupt, it could have been a catastrophe
for municipal finance and money funds,” said Matt Fabian, a
Concord, Massachusetts-based senior analyst and managing
director at Municipal Markets Advisors, an independent research
company. “The market has extensive exposure to foreign banks.”  97-Year Secret  Overseas banks accounted for about 70 percent of discount
window loans when borrowing reached its peak of $113.7 billion
in October 2008, according to the Fed’s data. The discount
window, established in 1914, is known as the lender of last
resort.  By law, most U.S. branches of foreign banks have access to
the discount window, said  David Skidmore , a spokesman for the
American central bank. “They are important providers of credit
to U.S. businesses and households, and discount window lending
during the financial crisis helped support their continued
lending in the  United States ,” he said.  The Fed has kept discount window borrowers secret for 97
years. Last week’s disclosures were court-mandated after legal
victories by Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, and
News Corp.’s Fox News Network LLC.  Depfa Bank Plc, a German-owned bank based in Dublin, was
another insurer of municipal bonds in the U.S. Depfa’s discount
window borrowing peaked at $28.5 billion in November 2008.  Loans and Guarantees  Dexia, which borrowed $37 billion from the discount window
in January 2009, said its loans from central banks peaked at 122
billion euros ($165 billion) in October 2008. That month, it
also obtained up to 150 billion euros ($202 billion) in debt
guarantees from France, Belgium and Luxembourg, of which it
tapped a maximum of about 96 billion euros ($130 billion) in May
2009. The countries and existing shareholders provided Dexia
about 6 billion euros ($8.4 billion) in capital.  Dexia stopped issuing guaranteed debt in June 2010, said
Alexandre Joly, a member of the bank’s management board and head
of strategy, portfolios and market activities.  “It’s apples and oranges to mix central bank loans, debt
guarantees and capital infusions to come up with a big headline
number,” Joly said in a phone interview from Brussels. “It’s
not accurate and it can be damaging to Dexia.”  Other Fed Programs  The bank availed itself of other Fed lending  programs  too.
Its total borrowings from the U.S. central bank’s Commercial
Paper Funding Facility ranked third among users of the emergency
program created to support the market for short-term debt issued
by banks and corporations. Dexia used the program 42 times for a
total of $53.5 billion, according to data the Fed released in
December.  Dexia also tapped the Term Auction Facility, the lending
mechanism the Fed established in December 2007 to augment the
discount window. Dexia received 24 TAF loans totaling $105.2
billion, the largest of which was $16.7 billion on Jan. 17,
2008, Fed data show. The lender used TAF about twice a month
from December 2007 to September 2008, then once in August 2009
and once more in November 2009. The interest rates it paid
ranged from 4.65 percent in December 2007 to 0.25 percent for
the two loans in 2009.  The Fed loans have been repaid, said Ulrike Pommee, a
Brussels-based Dexia spokeswoman. The bank used the Fed’s
emergency lending facilities to finance U.S. assets only, Pommee
said in an e-mail statement.  Always Transparent  “We have always been very transparent in our
communications about the wear and tear on us in the market
during the crisis,” Pommee said.  In 2008, Dexia was hit with buyback provisions in municipal
bonds, Pommee said. The bank was one of the biggest backstops of
the bonds, providing letters of credit or so-called standby
purchase agreements -- guarantees to buy the bonds if investors
wanted out. Dexia’s so-called credit enhancement made it
possible for  money market funds  to buy the bonds.  Dexia provided $14.7 billion in standby agreements and
letters of credit in North and South America, excluding  Mexico ,
in the first half of 2008, a six-fold increase over the same
period a year earlier, the bank said in its first-half 2008
report.  “This growth was the direct result of a dwindling number
of market participants able to offer such financial products
combined with the urgent needs of issuers to restructure their
debt,” Dexia said.  Interest-Rate Swaps  Over most of the last decade, thousands of cities,
counties, hospitals and universities issued long-term floating-
rate bonds and paired them with interest-rate swaps to try to
protect against higher borrowing costs. The strategy, which
relied on banks such as Dexia to guarantee a market for the
variable-rate notes, collapsed when investment firms and bond
insurers lost their top-credit ratings.  Interest-rate swaps are derivatives, or contracts whose
values are derived from assets including stocks, bonds,
currencies and commodities, or from events such as changes in
interest rates or the weather. Swaps are private contracts and
the market for them isn’t regulated.  Redemptions sapped Dexia so much that the bank was “two
days from bankruptcy,” Pommee said, citing the French ministry
for the economy.  Interest-rate swaps have cost U.S. taxpayers billions. The
Denver public school system is borrowing $800 million this week
to escape a wrong-way bet on rates. A Dexia unit that had
provided a standby purchase agreement on the school district’s
swap declined to renew its credit protection this month. The
cities of Detroit and Pittsburgh also have restructured debt
after Dexia decided not to renew its insurance.  Federal Investigation  Dexia’s lifeline from U.S. taxpayers came as federal
officials were investigating allegations that the bank’s
subsidiaries colluded with others to defraud state and local
governments.  Two former Dexia units were among more than a dozen
financial firms that conspired to pay below-market interest
rates to U.S. state and local governments on so-called
guaranteed investment contracts, or GICs, according to documents
filed in a U.S. Justice Department criminal antitrust case.  Municipalities buy GICs with money raised by selling bonds,
allowing them to earn a return until the funds are needed for
schools, roads and other public works.  An employee of Financial Security Assurance Holdings Ltd.,
one of the Dexia subsidiaries, agreed to pay kickbacks ranging
from $4,500 to $475,000 to a Los Angeles investment broker
called CDR Financial Products Inc. in exchange for rigging bids,
according to people familiar with the case and public records.  Competitors’ Bids  CDR employees fed information on competitors’ bids to FSA,
allowing the firm to win deals at a lower interest rate than it
would have paid, according to a federal indictment, public
records and the people.  Steven Goldberg, a former FSA banker, was indicted in July
on fraud and conspiracy charges. He has pleaded not guilty. FSA,
which hasn’t been indicted, is facing a lawsuit from the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. While Dexia sold the bond
insurance unit of FSA, it remained exposed to legal risks
because it kept another division of the company, its Financial
Products segment, Dexia said in its third-quarter 2010 report.  Joly said Dexia’s funding from the  European Central Bank 
remains at 17 billion euros today. Its borrowing from the Fed
“was a temporary situation and now they’re trading just fine,”
said Nat Singer of Swap Financial Group LLC in South Orange,  New
Jersey .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Ivry in  New York  at   bivry@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net . 