-- 
Fee War Rages Among Korean Brokers After Wrap Account Stampede

-- B y   Y o o l i m   L e e   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 
2011-04-06T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/fee-war-rages-among-korean-brokers-after-wrap-account-stampede.html
South Korean investors were crushed
by the market crash that swept the world three years ago. The
Seoul stock exchange’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  lost 41 percent during 2008,
while the most popular mutual fund fell 39 percent.  High-net-worth stock pickers looking for better performance
have found Seo Jae Hyeong.  Seo’s Korea Creative Investment advisory firm works with
brokerages to sell Koreans “wrap accounts” -- packages of stocks
offered as an alternative to mutual funds. Before he founded
KCI, Seo was a  fund manager  at Mirae Asset Global Investments
Co., Korea’s dominant mutual-fund company, scoring an average
return of more than 35 percent annually over five years.  When he opened KCI in December, money poured in -- 1.7
trillion won ($1.57 billion) within two months of its founding,
Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its May issue.  Seo, 46, is the best known of a growing legion of Korean
equity advisers offering personalized investment services. The
accounts they advise on are called wrap accounts because all
expenses and commissions are wrapped into a single annual fee,
which in  Korea  ranges from 1 percent to 3 percent of a
portfolio’s value.  “There should be a purpose to one’s life other than making
money for yourself,” Seo says. “I want to help other people get
rich by sharing what I’ve learned.” Dressed in a dark navy suit,
white shirt and a bright-pink tie, he gestures with his arms as
he speaks, revealing prominent scars on his left hand. He got
them cutting hay with a sickle on his parents’ farm in southern
Korea as a boy.  Wrap Accounts  Seo’s KCI runs what are known as consultant wrap accounts,
in which independent advisory firms work directly with brokerage
clients, picking stocks and other investments. He has contracts
with 20 brokerages, which typically take 80 percent of the fees,
while the adviser gets 20 percent.  The number of independent investment advisers and money
managers rose to 108 by early 2010 from 52 in December 2005. As
of the end of March there were 141, according to the  Financial
Services Commission , Korea’s regulator. Of the total, more than
20 offer wrap-account advice.  Seo’s startup vaulted to No. 2 in wrap-account assets under
management within weeks of its founding. Brain Investment
Management Co., started in 2009, is No. 1. Wrap assets at the
top 10 brokerage firms rose 44 percent in January alone, to 7.3
trillion won from 5.07 trillion won, according to Samsung
Securities Co.  ‘Hedge Fund Precursor’  Though Seo invests his clients’ money only in equities,
wrap-account holders are free to invest in anything -- including
bonds and other securities -- and to concentrate investments to
maximize returns.  “It’s that freedom that makes wrap accounts attractive,”
says Shaun Cochran, head of Korea research at Hong Kong-based
brokerage  CLSA Asia Pacific . “They are a precursor to  hedge
funds .”  The Korean government passed a law in 2009 allowing hedge
funds for the first time. The FSC imposed such stiff
restrictions on their operation, however, that no local funds
had been created as of the end of March. Several global hedge
funds, including London-based Winton Capital Management Ltd. and
New York-based Millennium Partners LP, have signed contracts
with Samsung Securities and other big South Korean brokers that
will allow their clients to invest in their funds.  Increasing Wealth  The non-Korean firms are eager to take advantage of the
increasing wealth of South Korean society. The number of Koreans
with a liquid net worth of 1 billion won or more has almost
tripled to 130,000 in the past 10 years, Seo says. High-net-
worth Korean families had $340 billion invested in 2009,
according to the Asia-Pacific  Wealth Report  2010, issued by
Capgemini SA and Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch. About 60
percent of it is in real estate and bonds.  Both wealthy and middle-class Korean investors have been
drawn to wrap accounts, known as managed accounts in the West,
partly by the swoon in mutual funds and a sharp drop in  interest
rates  that make investors’ deposit accounts less lucrative.  So much money has been flowing into wrap accounts that a
fee war has broken out. In February, Mirae Asset founder Park Hyeon Joo -- Korea’s biggest mutual-fund manager -- dropped the
fee he charges for wrap accounts he sells through his brokerage
arm to 1.9 percent from 3 percent. The move was quickly copied
by  Hyundai Securities Co. (003450)  and two other firms.  Fund Boom  The rush into managed accounts is reminiscent of the
mutual-fund stampede that preceded it. Korea’s equity fund
assets rose more than 16-fold to 140.2 trillion won at the end
of 2008 from 8.6 trillion won at the end of 2004. Since the
financial crisis broke in late 2008, investors have been
fleeing. The funds’ total assets dropped to 101.3 trillion won
as of the end of March.  The amount of money in wrap accounts, including consultant
accounts, grew to 39.4 trillion won at the end of January from
963 billion won at the end of 2003, according to the latest
available figures from the  Korea Financial Investment
Association . The biggest consultant-wrap-account broker is
Samsung Securities, with 3 trillion won in assets under
management as of March.  “Korea has a history of herding in its retail investment
culture when a theme becomes popular,” Cochran says. “There is a
potential for wrap accounts to become another craze and be
overdone.”  Outperforming Kospi  Why Seo is an investment celebrity is easy to see from his
returns at Mirae. From December 2004 through November 2009, the
11 funds Seo managed -- with assets averaging 5 trillion won --
had an average annualized return of 35.3 percent, outperforming
the Kospi’s 15.5 percent, according to KCI.  At KCI, he serves a wealthier clientele. The minimum for
most wrap accounts is 100 million won, though in the past year
it has dropped as low as 10 million won at some firms. In
addition to his brokerage customers, Seo manages money for a
coterie of wealthy individuals whose minimum initial investment
is 300-million won; they pay fees of as little as 1.3 percent.  Seo’s goal is to lure some of the money Koreans are holding
in real estate and  bank deposits  into his concentrated portfolio
of local stocks.  Clients tell KCI portfolio managers their investing goals,
and the managers choose from the dozens of stocks that Seo
favors. He holds mostly big companies with global businesses,
such as Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s biggest television
maker;  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ,  South Korea ’s biggest carmaker; and
Hyundai Heavy Industries Co., the world’s biggest shipbuilder.  Samsung, Hyundai  Samsung Electronics shares have risen 991 percent since the
beginning of 1999 through April 6, while Hyundai Heavy shares
have gained 1,866 percent. Samsung Electronics makes up 20
percent of Seo’s portfolio; Hyundai Heavy, 15 percent.  Since KCI started operation on Dec. 13, its model portfolio
returned 13.3 percent for the year ended April 6, compared with
the Kospi’s 6.5 percent gain, according to KCI. One account it
manages for a wealthy client has returned 14.3 percent during
the period, the company says.  Song Hong Sun, a research fellow at Korea Capital Market
Institute in  Seoul , says wrap portfolios can be risky because
they include so few stocks. This year, for instance, KCI’s
returns have been hurt by the poor performance of Samsung
Electronics, which was down 2.7 percent as of April 6, compared
with the Kospi’s 3.7 percent gain.  Blue Chips  “What is more risky,” Seo asks, “holding the world’s
leading company stocks like Samsung Electronics for a long time
or holding a bunch of crappy small caps in the name of
diversification of risk?”  On March 8, the day after a big drop in the Samsung
Electronics share price, Seo met with 15 of his high-net-worth
clients at the Shilla Hotel in Seoul, urging them to ignore
short-term volatility and hold on to the stocks of companies
with the best profit outlook.  Investors can see the components of their KCI portfolios in
real time, and word spreads fast via the media and blogs when
Seo is buying or selling. Speculators copy his bets, driving
prices higher. It’s a dangerous phenomenon, CLSA’s Cochran says.  “It creates a virtuous cycle on the way up, and it becomes
a vicious cycle on the way down,” he says.  The real test of the entire wrap market will come in the
next severe downturn, says  Mark Mobius , who oversees more than
$50 billion as executive chairman of Templeton Asset
Management’s Emerging Markets Group.  Downturn Risk  “Investors are now willing to pay higher fees on wrap
accounts due to strong performance,” he says. “We will have to
wait to see if the same is true during periods of weak
performance.”  The Kospi Index soared 66 percent in the two years ended on
April 6.  Seo has an academic bent -- a favorite pastime is reading a
15-volume history of the  Roman Empire  that he acquired from his
mother, who home-schooled him in Korean and Chinese history. She
died when he was in elementary school.  The farmer’s son paid his way through Seoul’s Yonsei
University, where he majored in business administration, by
working as a tutor. After finishing school, he worked for 14
years at Kookmin Bank, then moved to Mirae Asset in 2004.  There he became a believer in global warming and invested
accordingly. One stock in his portfolio, then and now, is OCI
Co., a maker of polysilicon, a material used to make solar
panels. OCI shares have risen about 1,390 percent during the
past five years, earning the adviser the nickname Solar Seo.  Investing is about more than profit-and-loss statements,
Seo says: “It’s about people, industries and the changing
environment around us.”  In South Korea, that environment can change rapidly. For
the moment, the wind is with Seo and the wrap accounts he has
helped make so popular.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoolim Lee in  Singapore  at 
 yoolim@bloomberg.net .
Saeromi Shin at   sshin15@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at   mserrill@bloomberg.net . 