-- 
Fishing Halted in Japan’s Ibaraki After Radioactive Water Contaminates Sea

-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 
2011-04-06T08:56:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/fishing-halted-in-japan-s-ibaraki-after-radioactive-water-contaminates-sea.html
Fishermen in Ibaraki prefecture,
 Japan ’s fifth-largest seafood producer, halted operations after
tainted fish were detected south of Fukushima, where radioactive
water from a stricken nuclear plant contaminated the sea.  About 96 percent of fishing off the coast of Ibaraki was
suspended after sand lance contaminated with higher-than-
acceptable levels of cesium were discovered yesterday, said
Tomoki Mashiko, assistant director at the fishing policy
division of the prefectural government. Fishing in Ibaraki had
been suspended since the March 11 earthquake and tsunami,
restarted as early as March 28, and then suspended again today.  Sushi restaurants and hotels, including Shangri-La Asia’s
luxury chain, dropped Japanese seafood from their menus because
of radiation fears. Japan exported 565,295 metric tons of marine
products worth 195 billion yen ($2.3 billion) last year. A
fishing industry group in Fukushima asked  Tokyo  Electric Power
Co. to stop dumping toxic water into the sea as the operator of
the damaged nuclear plant struggles to stem radiation leakage.  “The action may be undermining the whole fishing industry
in Japan,” Ikuhiro Hattori, chairman for the National
Federation of Fisheries Co-Operative Associations, told a vice
trade minister today, referring to Tepco dumping water.  Fishermen Compensation  The detection of tainted sand lance dealt a blow to Ibaraki
fishermen who were recovering from the natural disaster and were
resuming operations, Mashiko said. The prefecture produced
191,010 tons of fish worth 20 billion yen ($234 million) in 2008,
representing 3.4 percent of Japan’s output, government data show.  Fishermen from Ibaraki’s southern port of Hasaki weren’t
allowed to ship their products to a market in neighboring Chiba
prefecture, Mashiko said.  “We expect  Tokyo Electric  to treat fishermen in the same
way as it prepares to compensate farmers for their lost sales
because of radioactive contamination,” Mashiko said in an
interview today. The prefecture will increase monitoring of
marine products for radioactivity and decide which area and what
type of fish are safe for commercial operations, he said.  Japan has restricted vegetable and raw-milk shipments from
Fukushima and nearby prefectures after discovering contaminated
products through random testing.  Tepco, owner of the nuclear plant hit by Japan’s biggest
quake on record, slumped as much as 19 percent to a record low
today. The utility may make a preliminary compensation payment
of 1 million yen ($12,000) to each household near its crippled
Fukushima Dai-Ichi power plant,  Kyodo News  reported.  Shifting Demand  The cesium level detected in samples of sand lance caught
off the coast of Ibaraki was 526 becquerel per kilogram, higher
than Japan’s health ministry standard of 500 becquerel, data
from the prefecture showed yesterday.  Testing of sand-lance samples from fishermen’s group in the
northern town of Hirakata also showed they contained 4,080
becquerel per kilogram of iodine-131. The government set a
radioactive iodine standard for fish at 2,000 becquerel per
kilogram yesterday, the same as the limit for vegetables.  “Increased discovery of contaminated foods sapped consumer
appetite for products made in Fukushima and surrounding areas,”
said Takaki Shigemoto, commodity analyst at JSC Corp. in Tokyo.
“Demand is shifting to foods from western Japan and overseas.”  India  suspended import of food items from Japan for three
months or until “credible information” on the radiation hazard
is available, the health ministry said yesterday.  Exports of Japanese seafood were canceled by foreign buyers
on concern the products may have been tainted by radiation
leaking from the nuclear plant, Hiromi Isa, trade office
director at Japan’s Fisheries Agency, said last week.  Japan’s total output of marine products reached 5.43
million tons in 2009. Fishing by Fukushima and nearby Miyagi
prefectures remain suspended as they have not recovered from
damage caused by the quake and tsunami, according to the agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  