-- 
Fitch Says Bank of Africa’s Benin, Niger Units Face Ivorian Risk

-- B y   J a s o n   M c L u r e
-- 
2011-04-06T18:04:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/fitch-says-bank-of-africa-s-benin-niger-units-face-ivorian-risk.html
Fitch Ratings Ltd. placed two West
African banks on Rating Watch Negative on concern that their
exposure to Treasury bills from  Ivory Coast , the country in the
midst of a violence political deadlock, creates a credit risk
for the lenders.  Bank of Africa’s units in Niger and  Benin  have “high
exposure to both the Ivorian government and the Ivorian
economy,” Christian Kuendig, an analyst with the agency said in
a note today. “To date, neither bank has made any impairment
charges relating to its Ivorian government exposure.”  Since December 2010, shortly after the disputed Nov. 28
poll, maturing Ivorian notes in the local CFA franc currency
have been rolled over into new bills instead of redeemed, Fitch
said. Ivory Coast defaulted on its dollar denominated
international bonds in February when it missed a $29 million
interest payment.  Bank of  Africa  Benin is rated ‘D’ by Fitch, two grades
above its lowest rating of ‘F’ and defined as a bank that has
“weaknesses,” according to the ratings agency’s  definitions .
Bank of Africa Niger is rated ‘D/E’ by the agency.  Talks over the exit of  Laurent Gbagbo , the former leader of
Ivory Coast, ended unsuccessfully today and forces loyal to
President-elect  Alassane Ouattara  renewed their attack on pro-
Gbagbo military units in the commercial capital Abidjan.  The ongoing political crisis has shuttered the nation’s
banking system and halted shipments of cocoa from the world’s
top grower of the chocolate ingredient.  A deterioration of the crisis could negatively affect
additional banks in  Burkina Faso , Mali, Benin and other
countries that are linked to Ivory Coast through the  West
African Monetary Union , Kuendig said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason McLure in Accra at 
 jmclure@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 