-- 
Florida Disapproval of Scott Rises After Budget Cuts, Poll Says

-- B y   J e r r y   H a r t
-- 
2011-04-06T10:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/florida-disapproval-of-scott-rises-after-budget-cuts-poll-says.html
Florida voters’ disapproval of
Governor  Rick Scott , a Republican elected on promises to cut
spending and taxes, has doubled since he proposed a budget that
reduces outlays by $4.6 billion and eliminates 8,600 jobs.  Forty-eight percent of voters are displeased with the
governor’s performance, according to a  Quinnipiac University
poll  taken March 29 to April 4. That compares with 22 percent
who disapproved in a poll released Feb. 2, Quinnipiac said.
Scott’s approval rating remained unchanged at 35 percent.  The rising dissent is “not surprising given the magnitude
of the changes he is proposing,”  Peter Brown , assistant
director of the Quinnipiac University Polling Institute in
Hamden,  Connecticut , said in a statement today. “Scott is a
four-letter word to many Florida voters.”  The millionaire former health-care executive was elected in
November with less than half the votes cast as Republicans took
most U.S. statehouses pledging to shrink government in part by
curbing employee benefits. The effort is meeting resistance:
Americans reject limiting union bargaining rights and don’t
think states should break promises to retirees, a Bloomberg
National Poll last month found.  Since taking office in January, Scott’s proposals to
require state employees to contribute to  their pensions  and to
curb the ability of unions to collect dues from public employees
have advanced in the Republican-controlled Legislature. Scott
already signed a law that ties teacher pay to student
performance.  No Tax Increase  Fifty-three percent of respondents in the Quinnipiac poll
said Scott’s budget, in which he proposed the pension
contribution, is unfair to them. Fifty-two percent said Scott
shouldn’t have pledged to balance the budget without raising
taxes. Sixty-four percent said he won’t be able to keep that
promise.  The proposed rule for union dues is a bad idea, voters said
by 47 percent to 43 percent. They disapprove, by 57 percent to
39 percent, of the law that links teacher pay to student
performance. Seventy-eight percent approved of Scott’s order
that newly hired state workers undergo drug testing and that
those already on the job be spot-checked.  Quinnipiac surveyed 1,499 registered voters in its poll,
which has a margin of error of plus or minus 2.5 percentage
points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jerry Hart in Miami at 
 jhart@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 