-- 
Coal Use Criticized by IEA as Energy Leaders Meet in Abu Dhabi

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 
2011-04-06T16:15:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/fossil-fuels-growth-criticized-by-iea-as-energy-leaders-meet-in-abu-dhabi.html
Global consumption of coal and
natural gas will grow faster than demand for renewable energy,
the  International Energy Agency  said in a report urging
governments to boost incentives for clean power.  Coal, the dirtiest fuel in terms of  carbon emissions  used
for generating power, has provided 47 percent of new worldwide
electricity in the past decade, while gas accounted for 33
percent, the Paris-based agency said. That compares with a 6.5
percent share for plants that burn waste or use renewable
sources such as the wind and sun.  The recommendations were prepared before today’s meeting in
Abu Dhabi of government energy leaders from the U.S.,  China ,
 Japan ,  Germany  and other countries. Making buildings and
manufacturing more energy efficient is one of the best ways to
wean the planet’s reliance on fossil fuels, IEA Deputy Executive
Director  Richard Jones  said today.  “Half of future savings have to come from  energy
efficiency  if you want the low-cost solution,” Jones said in an
interview in Abu Dhabi. “For example lighting technology,
insulation, appliances, they take about a year to recoup the
cost,” he said.  Lawmakers should phase out fossil-fuel subsidies, promote
biofuels and boost support for renewable energy, electric cars
and carbon capture and storage, according to the report. The
average annual growth rates for wind and solar power since 2005
have averaged 26 percent and 50 percent respectively, according
to the report.  “The past decade has seen a dramatic rise in global
investment in renewable energy, led by wind and solar,” IEA
Executive Director  Nobuo Tanaka  said in the report’s foreword.
“Unfortunately, the news is not all good.”  Nuclear Power  The share of power generated from sources such as wind and
sunshine fell to 18.5 percent in 2008, the latest year given,
from 19.5 percent in 1990, mainly due to a drop in new
hydroelectric plants, the report said.  With governments reviewing their nuclear-energy strategies
following the crisis at Japan’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi atomic-power
station, “smarter, more ambitious policies are clearly needed”
to ensure the world is able to fight  climate change  and increase
energy security, Tanaka said.  For a 50 percent reduction in CO2 emissions by 2050, global
nuclear power capacity needs to rise to 512 gigawatts by 2020
from 375 gigawatts at the end of last year, according to the
report. That’s a “real challenge” and means a “significant
number” of new plants must begin construction in the next five
years, the IEA said.  “Nuclear power continues to be part of our mix,” Jones
said. “We recognize it isn’t for every country, and the growth
will be stretched out because of the Japanese situation.”  The meeting in  Abu Dhabi  includes ministers from the
European Union and more than 20 other states accounting for more
than 80 percent of global greenhouse gas emissions. It was
started in 2010 by U.S. Energy Secretary Steven Chu, and this
year’s meeting is taking place today and tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Ayesha Daya in Abu Dhabi at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 