-- 
Freescale Won’t Reopen Chip Plant in Japan That Was Damaged by Earthquake

-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-04-06T04:06:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/freescale-won-t-reopen-chip-plant-in-japan-that-was-damaged-by-earthquake.html
Freescale Semiconductor Inc., the
chipmaker partly owned by Blackstone Group LP, won’t reopen a
factory in Sendai,  Japan , that was damaged by last month’s
earthquake.  Safety concerns and damage to infrastructure mean the plant,
which had already been scheduled to close in December of this
year, won’t return to full operation, Austin, Texas-based
Freescale said in a statement.  “We will not rebuild and reopen the plant,” Freescale
Chief Executive Officer Rich Beyer said in a phone interview.
“The damage is substantial.”  The chipmaker, planning to raise $1.15 billion in the
largest initial share sale by a U.S. technology company since
Google Inc. went public, ceased operations at Sendai after the
March 11 earthquake and tsunami that struck northeast Japan.
Freescale staff evacuated the site following the disaster.  Chip plants typically run 24 hours a day and are vulnerable
to power outages that can ruin months of work. Freescale
followed larger rival Texas Instruments Inc. in saying factories
in the area had been damaged.  Freescale will concentrate on transferring work to
alternative facilities, it said in the statement.  The Sendai plant, which makes chips used in cars, was being
closed as part of a companywide effort to cut costs. Freescale,
owned by a group of private equity companies including
Blackstone, filed on Feb. 11 to sell shares in an IPO.  The chipmaker is continuing to provide assistance,
including shipments of food, water, clothing and emergency
supplies, to its Sendai employees. It will pay them until their
December severance date, it said.  “We’re going to take care of our employees,” Beyer said.  The Sendai plant was built in 1987 as a joint venture
between Tokyo-based Toshiba Corp. and Motorola Inc., Freescale’s
former parent. Freescale has 600 employees at the site.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  