-- 
Galleon, Fairfield, JPMorgan, HSBC, Verizon in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-04-06T10:43:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/galleon-fairfield-jpmorgan-hp-hsbc-verizon-in-court-news.html
A day after a jury heard recordings
of Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam thanking Danielle
Chiesi for a stock tip, a government agent testified about
Rajaratnam’s phone calls, trading dates and stock profits.  Prosecutors in Manhattan federal court yesterday presented
charts prepared by FBI Special Agent James Barnacle Jr.
connecting phone records, wiretaps, e-mails, share prices and
Galleon stock-trading records in an attempt to prove Rajaratnam
used confidential information to pick stocks. The U.S. said it
expects to rest its criminal case against Rajaratnam today.  Rajaratnam, 53, is on trial in the largest crackdown on
hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history. The Sri Lankan-born
money manager is accused of making $45 million from tips leaked
by corporate insiders and hedge-fund traders. He has denied
wrongdoing and says his trades were based on legitimate
research.  U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell granted a defense
request to bar prosecutors from offering as evidence videotapes
of ex-Intel Corp. executive  Roomy Khan  faxing him documents in
1997 and 1998.  Holwell said the videotapes would have been unfair to
Rajaratnam and had “diminished probative value.” Prosecutors
wanted to use them to support a claim that Khan leaked inside
tips to Rajaratnam in 2006 and 2007. Holwell said prosecutors
may use other evidence to prove that charge.  Khan, who pleaded guilty, has been cooperating with
prosecutors. She won’t testify at the trial, prosecutors have
said.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Ex-Taylor Bean President Says Ex-Chairman Ran Conspiracy  The former president of Taylor, Bean & Whitaker Mortgage
Corp., Raymond Bowman, said ex-Chairman  Lee Farkas  ordered data
sent to Colonial Bank for nonexistent loans in an effort to
cover up the company’s growing deficits.  Bowman, 45, testifying in federal court in Alexandria,
Virginia, yesterday for the government, said Farkas in 2003
explained that the sale of “dummy” loans, known as Plan B,
were necessary to prevent Taylor Bean from going out of
business.  “I told him I didn’t think it was a good idea,” said
Bowman, who pleaded guilty last month to conspiracy and making
false statements. Bowman said he thought the plan was unethical
and “possibly illegal.”  Farkas, 58, is charged with orchestrating a $1.9 billion
fraud scheme involving fake mortgage assets that duped some of
the country’s largest financial institutions, targeted the U.S.
bank bailout program and contributed to the failure of
Montgomery, Alabama-based Colonial Bank.  Bowman is one of six people who have admitted to the
conspiracy and are scheduled to testify against Farkas, who
might spend the rest of his life in prison if convicted on 14
counts of wire, bank and securities fraud.  The case is U.S. v. Farkas, 10-cr-00200, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  Ferrari, Yacht Payoffs Alleged at Foreign-Bribes Trial  Two executives at a  California  maker of power-line
equipment went on trial yesterday in  Los Angeles , accused of
bribing officials at a Mexican utility with a car and a boat to
win orders.  Lindsey Manufacturing Co. President Keith Lindsey and Chief
Financial Officer Steve Lee are charged with violating the U.S.
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act by using a Mexican intermediary to
pay off the officials, including buying one of them a $1.8
million yacht and a $300,000 Ferrari.  Prosecutors said the closely held Azusa, California-based
company, which is also a defendant, paid Enrique Aguilar, an
independent Mexican sales representative and his company
inflated commissions to cover more than $5 million in bribes and
obtain orders from Comision Federal de Electricidad, a power
company.  “They knew that in order to get business with CFE, they
had to pay bribes,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Douglas Miller said
yesterday in his opening statement in Los Angeles federal court.
One of the Mexican officials could pick up the Ferrari at the
Beverly Hills dealer in 2007 “without signing a single piece of
paper,” Miller said.  Enrique Aguilar’s wife, Angela Aguilar, was arrested last
year in Houston and charged with money laundering for setting up
a U.S. brokerage account through which the payments were made.
She is being tried with the Lindsey executives. Her husband was
also charged. A Mexican citizen, he isn’t in the U.S.  “The implication that the contracts were riddled with
corruption and stimulated by bribes is belied by the facts,”
Handzlik said. “Major purchases were stimulated by a need for a
vital product.”  Handzlik said that Enrique Aguilar’s business represented
other companies as well, and that Lindsey Manufacturing had no
control over what happened with the fees they paid for his
services, which were comingled with fees he received from his
other clients.  The case is U.S. v. Aguilar, 10-1031, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Los Angeles).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  New Suits  Madoff Feeder Fund Fairfield Sues Abu Dhabi for $300 Million  Fairfield Sentry Ltd., a feeder fund that invested in the
Ponzi scheme of Bernard L. Madoff, sued the Abu Dhabi Investment
Authority to try to recover $300 million in redemption payments.  Fairfield Sentry, citing a $3.2 billion lawsuit against it
by Madoff trustee  Irving Picard , has been filing so-called
clawback actions aimed at recouping money. Funds it received
from the jailed confidence man were passed on to its own
shareholders as redemption payments, it said in an April 1
bankruptcy court filing.  “Unless redemption payments paid to shareholders are
recovered for the funds’ estate, the funds will be unable to
satisfy their liabilities and claims,” it said in the filing.  The Abu Dhabi sovereign wealth fund is due to respond to
the lawsuit in May, according to court records.  Fairfield Sentry is being liquidated in the British Virgin
Islands and has a U.S. proceeding to protect its U.S. assets.  Euart Glendinning, a spokesman for the investment
authority, didn’t immediately respond to e-mails seeking comment
outside of regular business hours in the United Arab Emirates.  The case is Fairfield Sentry Ltd. v. Abu Dhabi Investment
Authority, 11-01719,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Securities Corp. Can Join Madoff Trustee JPMorgan Suit  The Securities Investor Protection Corp., which initiated
the liquidation of Bernard L. Madoff’s money-management firm,
can be heard in trustee Irving Picard’s $6.4 billion suit
against  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , a judge ruled.  JPMorgan, which is contesting Picard’s allegation that it
aided in Madoff’s $20 billion Ponzi scheme, said in a letter to
U.S. District Judge  Colleen McMahon  that SIPC’s filing of
arguments in the case wasn’t contemplated by existing agreements
between the parties and was done without informing JPMorgan. The
New York-based bank, which is trying to move the case to U.S.
District Court from U.S. Bankruptcy Court, said it may object to
SIPC’s participation in the case.  A note on the docket April 4 said, “SIPC can be heard.”  The case is Picard v. JPMorgan Chase & Co., 11-cv-00913,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Mark Hurd Appeals Letter Release to Delaware Supreme Court  Mark Hurd appealed a judge’s decision that  Hewlett-Packard
Co. (HPQ)  must release most of a letter about the ex-chairman’s
involvement with contractor Jodie Fisher, the relationship that
led to his departure from the company.  Delaware Chancery Court Judge Donald Parsons Jr. on March
17 ordered that a redacted, public version of the letter be
filed within 10 days, and the pending appeal delayed that
release. Parsons on March 28 modified his earlier order, saying
that Hewlett-Packard should release the letter on the 10th day
following the filing of a notice of appeal unless he or the
Delaware Supreme Court issues a stay.  The state high court yesterday ordered Hurd’s lawyers to
submit their opening brief on the appeal by May 19. It will
consider the case later, according to an electronic court
filing.  The letter, sent by lawyer Gloria Allred on Fisher’s
behalf, is part of a case filed by HP shareholder Ernesto
Espinoza seeking access to company books and records. The letter
contains accusations of sexual harassment and details of Hurd’s
alleged advances toward Fisher and her rejection of them,
according to Parsons’s ruling.  Hurd, now co-president of software maker  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ,
resigned from Palo Alto, California-based HP in August after a
company investigation determined he violated its standards of
business conduct. HP said it didn’t find that Hurd had violated
the company’s sexual-harassment policy.  “We have no comment” on the latest appeal, a Hewlett-
Packard spokeswoman,  Mylene Mangalindan , said yesterday in an e-
mailed message.  The Chancery case is Espinoza v. Hewlett-Packard Co.,
CA6000, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington). The appeal is Hurd
v. Espinoza, 167, 2001, Delaware Supreme Court (Dover).  For more, click here.  BP, Spill Partners Seek Smaller Civil Fine for Gulf Spill  BP Plc (BP/)  said the U.S. should calculate its pollution fine
for last year’s Gulf of Mexico  oil spill  based on how long the
damaged well gushed, not on how many barrels of crude it
discharged.  The Obama administration in December sued BP and other
companies involved in the worst offshore oil spill in U.S.
history, seeking a civil penalty based on the more than 4.1
million barrels of oil it said spilled into the gulf after the
Deepwater Horizon rig blew up off the Louisiana coast in April
2010, killing 11 people. The gusher was capped July 15 and
permanently sealed Sept. 19.  BP said in a filing April 4 in federal court in New Orleans
that the government should assess a fine based on the days the
well was in violation of the Clean Water Act, an alternative to
the government’s method.  In its complaint, the U.S. said it will seek civil
penalties of $1,000 for each barrel of oil spilled, or in the
case of negligence or willful misconduct, as much as $4,300 a
barrel from the companies involved, as provided under the law.
London-based BP has denied acting in a way that would trigger
the higher per-barrel fine. The company didn’t specify what the
penalty would be under its calculation.  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  and MOEX Offshore 2007 LLC, BP’s
partners in the well, filed papers April 4 denying that they
acted with negligence or willful misconduct and repeating their
position that BP should pay the full cost of the spill. Anadarko
holds a 25 percent stake in the well, and MOEX, a unit of Mitsui
& Co., holds 10 percent.  BP admitted legal responsibility for damage caused by the
spilled oil and set aside $20 billion to compensate injured
parties and pay cleanup and restoration costs.  The case is U.S. vs. BP Exploration & Production Inc.,
2:10-cv-4536, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana
(New Orleans).  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  HSBC Client Said to Plead Guilty to Hiding Bank Accounts  A  New Jersey  businessman accused of conspiring with five
bankers at  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  to hide his Indian bank accounts
from U.S. tax authorities is scheduled to plead guilty next
week, according to court records and a person familiar with the
matter.  Vaibhav Dahake, of Somerset, New Jersey, will have a plea
agreement hearing on April 11 in federal court in Trenton, New
Jersey, court records show. He was indicted Jan. 26 on charges
of conspiring with bankers of “one of the largest international
banks in the world,” which has headquarters in  England .  London-based HSBC,  Europe ’s largest bank by market value,
is the bank, according to the person, who requested anonymity
because the U.S. Justice Department hasn’t identified the
conspirators.  Dahake was the first taxpayer charged in a crackdown
focusing on whether HSBC helped clients with Indian accounts
hide assets from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service. He’s accused
of conspiring with two bankers in New York, one in Fremont,
California, and two in Thane,  India . He faces as long as five
years in prison.  “HSBC does not condone tax evasion and fully supports the
U.S. efforts to promote appropriate payment of taxes by U.S.
taxpayers,” Juanita Gutierrez, a company spokeswoman, said in
an e-mail.  Dahake’s attorney Lawrence Horn declined to comment.
Rebekah Carmichael, a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Paul
Fishman, declined to comment.  The case is U.S. v. Dahake, 11-cr-42, U.S. District Court,
District of New Jersey (Trenton).  For more, click here.  Wells Fargo to Pay $11.2 Million in SEC Settlement  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the biggest U.S. home lender, agreed to
pay $11.2 million to settle regulatory claims that Wachovia
Capital Markets improperly sold two collateralized debt
obligations tied to home mortgages.  The Wachovia unit, acquired by Wells Fargo during the
financial crisis, charged “undisclosed excessive markups”
while selling stakes in a CDO to the Zuni Indian tribe and an
individual investor as housing markets began collapsing, the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said yesterday in a
statement. Wachovia also falsely claimed it acquired assets for
a CDO “on an arm’s-length basis,” the SEC said.  “Wachovia caused significant losses to the Zuni Indians
and other investors by violating basic investor-protection rules
-- don’t charge secret excessive markups, and don’t use stale
prices,” SEC Enforcement Director  Robert Khuzami  said in the
statement.  Wells Fargo’s securities unit didn’t admit or deny
wrongdoing in agreeing to settle the regulator’s claims,
according to the SEC’s statement. The violations occurred in
2006 and 2007, the SEC said.  “The settlement relates to actions taken by Wachovia in
2007 in the early days of the credit crisis,”  Mary Eshet , a
Wells Fargo spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement. “The
issues presented here were complex, and Wells Fargo is pleased
to have resolved this matter with the SEC.”  For more, click here.  Verizon Pays $93.5 Million to U.S. to End Overcharging Case  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , the second-largest U.S. phone
company, paid the U.S. $93.5 million to resolve allegations it
overcharged the U.S. General Services Administration.  The U.S. Justice Department and the GSA, which supports
federal agencies with products and communications, found that
New York-based Verizon submitted false claims for reimbursement
of property taxes, common-carrier recovery charges and
unallowable surcharges, according to a government statement.  “Corporations that contract to provide services to
federal, state and local governments must play by the rules,”
Assistant Attorney General  Tony West  said in the statement.  The whistle-blower lawsuit was filed on behalf of the
government by Stephen M. Shea and 2Probe LLC, according to the
statement.  “Verizon cooperated closely with the government throughout
the process,” Peter Lucht, a Verizon spokesman, said in an
interview. “It was in the best interest of all parties to
settle the matter. The government and Verizon disagreed on
whether certain fees could be charged under the contract, so
their settlement concludes the efforts by both parties to
resolve the dispute amicably.”  The case is U.S. v. Verizon Communications Inc., 07-cv-111,
U.S. District Court, District of Columbia ( Washington ).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 