-- 
GDF Plans to Develop Heilo Find With Tie-In to Snohvit, Goliat

-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 
2011-04-06T10:57:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/gdf-plans-to-develop-heilo-find-with-tie-in-to-snohvit-goliat.html
GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA, operator of  Europe ’s
largest natural-gas network, will start drilling an exploration
well at the Heilo prospect in August and plans to develop any
discovery with a tie-in to Snohvit and Goliat.  GDF Suez, which operates the 530 license where Heilo is
located, will drill Heilo with the Aker Barents rig and conduct
an evaluation and development of a potential find, the company’s
 Norway  Chief Terje Overvik said.  Rocksource ASA (RGT) , a partner in
the Heilo prospect, estimates there’s more than a 50 percent
chance of a find and estimates recoverable resources of 200
million barrels of oil equivalent.  “It is an area with finds such as Tornerose, Nucula, so
there’s good probability of making a discovery,” Overvik said
at the  Barents Sea  conference in Hammerfest, Norway, yesterday.
“We’re expecting a subsea development with oil going to Goliat
and gas to Snohvit, that’s our base case.”  Overvik said there was a likelihood of finding both gas and
oil at Heilo. While the company would also consider a stand-
alone solution should the discovery exceed expectations, this
was unlikely, he said. “It’s not a new Skrugard we’re expecting
at Heilo.”  Statoil ASA (STL)  last week announced the first commercial
discovery in the Barents Sea in more than 10 years at the
Skrugard prospect, boosting hopes for further finds. Oil
producers including  Eni SpA (ENI) , Total SA, GDF Suez and Dong Energy
A/S are drilling seven wells in the Barents Sea this year and
another seven in 2012, amid a push to make discoveries in a
region that has yielded two developments after 30 years of
exploration.  Additional Operatorships  GDF Suez has applied for additional operatorships in the
Barents Sea in the 21st licensing round, which is due to be
announced this spring, Overvik said. The Norwegian authorities
are offering 51 whole and partial blacks in the Barents Sea and
43 in the  Norwegian Sea .  GDF Suez invested 18 billion kroner ($3.3 billion) in
Norway from 2001 to 2009 and expects investments to remain at
this level between 2010 and 2015, including investments in the
Gudrun field in the  North Sea , the Gygrid project in the
Norwegian Sea and the Snohvit plant in the Barents Sea, the
executive said.  The Paris-based utility company is looking to grow its
resources in Norway through exploration and acquisitions,
Overvik said.  “You have to be on the look-out for business development
opportunities, so if the right assets are up for sale, in the
areas that fit our strategy and are priced right,” the company
would bid, said Overvik, adding that it would look at assets
offered near Snohvit, Njord, Fram, Gjoea and Gudrun.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marianne Stigset in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  