-- 
Generali Says Geronzi Steps Down as Insurer's Chairman Over `Differences'

-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 
2011-04-06T16:09:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/generali-says-geronzi-steps-down-as-insurer-s-chairman-over-differences-.html
Cesare Geronzi, chairman of
 Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) , resigned today, after clashes with
board members over his role at  Italy ’s biggest insurer.  Geronzi stepped down because of “differences that prevent
his involvement” with the company, Generali said in a stock-
exchange statement. It didn’t elaborate. Geronzi quit after at
least 10 directors were prepared to support a no-confidence
motion against him at the board meeting today, according to two
people with knowledge of the matter.  Geronzi, 76, drew criticism from directors including Diego Della Valle, founder of the Tod’s SpA luxury goods company, who
accused the non-executive chairman of interfering with top
management. In the last month, Leonardo Del Vecchio, founder of
eyewear maker Luxottica Group SpA, and Banco Santander SA’s Ana Patricia Botin resigned from Generali’s board, sparking concerns
about the company’s governance.  “This is clearly good news for the entire Italian system
as the most powerful man in the industry from a political
standpoint has quit,” Atanasio Pantarrotas, an analyst at CA
Cheuvreux, wrote in a note today. “In our view, it is a triumph
of management governance against political power games. This
explains the reaction of the stock to this news.”  Generali rose as much as 5.7 percent, and closed up 3
percent to 15.93 euros in Milan, giving the company a market
value of 24.8 billion euros ($35.6 billion). The Bloomberg
 Europe  500 Insurance Index has risen 14 percent in the past six
months, compared with Generali’s 9 percent increase.  Extraordinary Meeting  Geronzi called today’s extraordinary meeting to discuss the
company’s governance after director  Vincent Bollore  abstained
from the board’s approval of 2010 earnings over concerns about
the company’s joint venture with PPF Group NV.  Generali needs to be more transparent about its investments
in eastern Europe and  Russia , Bollore told Italian daily
Corriere Della Sera in an interview published March 19.  He told the newspaper the partnership in eastern Europe
with PPF group is “unbalanced” and an investment in VTB Group
“overvalues” the Russian bank. Geronzi sparked criticism from
directors including Della Valle when he said in an interview
with the Financial Times on Feb. 16 that the insurer might
invest in Italian banks.  Geronzi, a former chairman of investment bank Mediobanca
SpA, was appointed to the Generali post a year ago, replacing
Antoine Bernheim.  Geronzi became chairman of Mediobanca’s supervisory board
in 2007 after the bank’s investors reinstated him to the
position. He had been temporarily removed after a court-imposed
suspension following his conviction in connection with the
bankruptcy of property and tourism company Italcase.  That conviction was overturned on appeal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  