-- 
Generali Chairman Geronzi Said to Offer Resignation Before Confidence Vote

-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 
2011-04-06T12:07:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/generali-chairman-geronzi-said-to-offer-resignation-before-confidence-vote.html
Cesare Geronzi, chairman of
 Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) , Italy’s biggest insurer, offered to
resign today, according to two people informed of the decision.  At least 10 directors were prepared to support a no-
confidence motion against Geronzi at a board meeting today in
 Rome , according to one person.  Geronzi, 76, clashed with board members including  Vincent Bollore  over the company’s joint venture with PPF Group NV,
prompting today’s meeting to discuss governance at Italy’s
largest insurer. Generali needs to be more transparent about its
investments in eastern Europe and  Russia , Bollore told Italian
daily Corriere Della Sera in an interview published March 19.  The request for greater transparency was behind Bollore’s
decision to abstain from the board’s approval of 2010 earnings.
He told the newspaper the partnership in Eastern  Europe  with PPF
group is “unbalanced” and an investment in VTB Group
“overvalues” the Russian bank.  Officials for Trieste-based Generali didn’t have an
immediate comment. A spokesman for Geronzi didn’t answer calls
to his mobile phone seeking comment.  Generali shares rose as much as 5.7 percent in Milan,
giving it a market value of about 25 billion euros ($36
billion).  Mediobanca  Geronzi, a former chairman of investment bank  Mediobanca
SpA (MB) , was appointed to the Generali post a year ago, replacing
Antoine Bernheim.  Geronzi became chairman of Mediobanca’s supervisory board
in 2007 after the bank’s investors reinstated him to the
position. He had been temporarily removed after a court-imposed
suspension following his conviction in connection with the
bankruptcy of property and tourism company Italcase.  He was acquitted of the charges in 2009 on appeal. Geronzi,
a former Bank of  Italy  official, previously was chairman of
Rome-based Capitalia SpA before its merger with UniCredit SpA.  Geronzi also drew criticism from Generali director Diego Della Valle, founder of the Tod’s SpA luxury goods company.
Della Valle told weekly magazine L’Espresso Feb. 24 that Geronzi
should consider retirement.  Geronzi interfered in the company’s management when he said
in an interview with the Financial Times on Feb. 16 that the
insurer might invest in Italian banks, Della Valle told the
weekly. “Considering global competition and the required energy
needed to confront it, if I was him I would start thinking
about” retirement, Della Valle was cited as saying at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  