-- 
German Factory Orders Jumped More Than Forecast in February

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-04-06T11:29:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/german-factory-orders-jumped-more-than-forecast-in-february-1-.html
German factory orders rose almost
five times as much as economists forecast in February,
indicating growth in  Europe ’s largest economy gathered pace in
the first quarter.  Orders, adjusted for seasonal swings and inflation, gained
2.4 percent from January, when they jumped 3.1 percent, the
Economy Ministry in Berlin said in a statement today. Economists
had forecast a 0.5 percent increase for February, according to
the median of 33 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. From a
year ago, orders rose 20.1 percent.  With German companies stepping up investment and hiring to
meet booming export orders, the  European Central Bank  is poised
to raise interest rates tomorrow to keep a lid on inflation. The
Bundesbank predicts German economic growth of 2.5 percent this
year after last year’s record 3.6 percent expansion, even as
fellow euro-area economies such as Greece, Ireland and  Portugal 
remain mired in a sovereign debt crisis.  “This points to continued strong growth momentum in
manufacturing output for the next several months,” said  Klaus
Baader , an economist at  Societe Generale  in  London . “The fact
that domestic orders expanded solidly in February is
particularly welcome.”  Domestic factory orders rose 2.6 percent from January and
foreign orders gained 2.3 percent, today’s report showed. Demand
for investment goods surged 4.5 percent.  ‘Above Average’  Orders for big-ticket items were “strongly above
average,” the Economy Ministry said, adding firmer domestic
demand suggests the outlook for industrial production remains
“favorable.”  Production of plant and machinery, which represents about
15 percent of German exports, will increase 14 percent this
year, the VDMA machine makers’ association said this week,
raising its forecast from 10 percent.  Germany ’s  SGL Carbon SE (SGL) , the world’s largest maker of
carbon and graphite products, on March 17 predicted operating
profit will jump as much as 29 percent this year as it invests
in new technologies for lightweight construction and electric
cars.  At the same time, German manufacturers are facing rising
prices for energy, steel and aluminum as well as potential
supply bottlenecks as a result of stoppages in Japanese plants
after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami.  Schaeffler Group , the world’s second-biggest maker of
roller bearings, said on March 29 that its profit margin may
shrink this year due to commodity cost increases.  The price of oil has surged almost 30 percent in the past
six weeks to $108 a barrel, helping to drive euro-area inflation
to 2.6 percent last month. The ECB, which aims to keep inflation
just below 2 percent, may tomorrow raise its benchmark interest
rate from a record low of 1 percent.  “The drag factor on the economy is the oil price, which
could also put domestic consumption under pressure,” said
Lothar Hessler, an economist at HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG in
Dusseldorf. “The basic trend in factory orders is upward, and
we expect that to continue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  