-- 
German Lawmakers Snub Move by Banks to Limit Levy Paid to Fund

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 
2011-04-06T17:07:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/german-lawmakers-snub-move-by-banks-to-limit-levy-paid-to-fund.html
German lawmakers today snubbed
efforts by the country’s banks to limit the levy they have to
pay into a rescue fund after decreeing that the lenders have to
chip in even in years of weak profit or losses.  The Berlin-based BDB group of private banks, which
represents lenders including  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  and  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK) , tried to stymie a rule passed today that compels banks to
pay retroactively into the fund if they struggle to pay the fee
in any one year. In rejecting the banks’ request, the ruling
coalition said it seeks continuous input into the fund.  The decree or ordinance on which lawmakers voted today goes
a step further than legislation passed last year to create a new
privately-financed bank rescue fund. The legislation left open
the question of whether banks would need to contribute
retroactively into the fund in years of weak business.  Germany 
is phasing out a bank rescue fund paid by taxpayers formed in
2008 and replacing it with a bank-financed rescue fund that was
formed in January.  Lawmakers from the ruling coalition want to “ensure that
banks accept their responsibility” in providing pooled
insurance for any future bailout, Klaus-Peter Flosbach, finance
policy spokesman for  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s bloc in
parliament, said in an e-mail.  “The coalition has taken the decisive step of making banks
contribute to the costs of future financial crises,” Flosbach
said.  Germany aims to raise as much as 70 billion euros ($100
billion) for the fund. The Finance Ministry estimates that banks
may contribute about 1.3 billion euros to the pool in total per
year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  