-- 
Germany’s Future Rising in East as Exports to China Eclipse U.S.

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-04-06T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/germany-s-future-rising-in-east-as-exports-to-china-eclipse-u-s-.html
Germany  is bettering its European
rivals in the race to harness Chinese growth as exports to the
Asian nation begin to outstrip those to the U.S.  With its consumers and companies sating their appetite for
power turbines, cars and electronics, China became Germany’s
largest non-European customer at the end of last year, helping
drive up share prices from BASF SE to Bayerische Motoren Werke
AG. Economists expect data tomorrow to show German exports rose
the most in five months in February as China’s share of foreign
sales continues to grow.  “This is a turning point in Germany’s economic history,”
said  Andreas Rees , chief Germany economist at UniCredit Markets
and Investment in Munich. “ China  could become the largest
export market of all by 2015.”  The U.S. has been Germany’s most important trading partner
beyond European borders since the end of World War II, a
relationship that helped turn the country into a pillar of
economic and political stability for the west. Now, with China
becoming the main impulse for world growth, Germany’s exporters
of machinery,  consumer goods  and luxury cars are increasingly
turning to the east.  “The theme for this decade is that millions of people in
China want to live like Europeans,” said Herbert Perus, head of
equities at Raiffeisen Capital Management in Vienna, who helps
oversee about $36 billion. “The ‘Made in Germany’ brand is
going to be very strong in this market.”  Germany sold goods worth 5.4 billion euros ($7.7 billion)
to China including  Hong Kong  in December, beating the 5.3
billion euros of exports to the U.S.  Quadrupled Share  While exports to the U.S. reclaimed the top non-European
spot in January, Rees said that will likely be temporary. Sales
to mainland China surged 44 percent last year, more than to any
other destination. They have more than quadrupled in the last
decade, tripling China’s share of Germany’s exports to 5.6
percent. By contrast, the U.S. share dropped to 6.9 percent in
2010 from 10.3 percent in 2000.  Societe Generale estimates that by 2020, China will account
for about 15 percent of German exports. By contrast, it
estimates China’s share of French and Italian foreign sales will
be 7 percent and 6 percent respectively.  “If it weren’t for China, the Germans would really be
feeling the pinch,” said  Niall Ferguson , professor of history
at  Harvard University , who is currently teaching at the  London 
School of Economics. “It helps explain why the Germans remain
so callous about the difficulties of the peripheral euro-zone
economies.”  Special Status  The German government, which dragged its heels over
European Union bailouts for debt-stricken euro-area members such
as  Greece , will this year elevate China to a status it has given
to only seven other countries involving full cabinet-level
consultations.  Chinese demand is soaring for exactly the goods German
firms specialize in -- industrial machinery, cars and consumer
products. The Chinese middle class could double its 2008 size to
400 million people by 2014, Societe Generale predicts, fueling
growth for European firms that make the goods they want.  Company profits in Germany have jumped 129 percent in the
past year, driving the benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  up 15 percent. The
European Stoxx 600 Index climbed 5 percent over the same period.  BMW has risen 72 percent in the past 12 months while shares
in French carmaker  Renault SA (RNO)  gained 8 percent. Renault sold
about 14,000 vehicles in China last year compared with BMW’s
58,500 sales in the first quarter of 2011 alone.  Currency Policy  The benefit Germany gets from Chinese trade may explain why
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has been quieter than U.S.
President Barack Obama in lobbying China to let the yuan
appreciate.  “The benefit of having a more rapid appreciation of the
yuan might be outweighed for Germany by the effect of much
slower Chinese growth,” said  Steven Barrow , currency strategist
at Standard Bank Plc in London. “A gradual adjustment would be
more beneficial.”  While the dollar has dropped 4 percent against the yuan in
the past 12 months, the euro has risen 2 percent against the
Chinese currency. That hasn’t damped economic growth.  After contracting 4.7 percent in 2009 during the global
financial crisis, the German economy expanded a record 3.6
percent in 2010 and the Bundesbank forecasts growth of 2.5
percent this year.  ‘Great Stimulus’  By contrast, the  European Central Bank  projects 1.7 percent
growth for the 17-nation euro area as a whole. China had growth
of 10.3 percent last year, helping it overtake  Japan  as the
world’s second-biggest economy.  “If China continues to grow at this pace, then that’s a
great stimulus for German exports and its economy,” said  Aline Schuiling , senior economist at ABN Amro in Amsterdam. “Germany
can deliver the required investment goods more competitively
than anyone else in  Europe .”  Ingolstadt-based Audi, a unit of Volkswagen AG that makes a
range of luxury sedans, said on March 8 it aims to increase 2011
sales by more than 10 percent. In December, it predicted China
will become its biggest market this year.  China’s became the world’s largest car market in 2009, and
sales rose 33 percent in 2010 to 13.8 million vehicles.  The world’s largest chemicals company, Ludwigshafen-based
BASF, more than doubled its fourth quarter profit to 1.1 billion
euros as demand from the automotive industry increased.  Germany’s machine-tools building industry, dominated by the
famed Mittelstand of small and medium-sized firms, is
anticipating 30 percent growth in 2011, according to industry
association VDMA.  ‘Dangerous Cocktail’  China is by far the biggest single market for German
machine tools, buying around four times as many units as second-
placed U.S. firms, according to VDMA. In China, Germany is the
largest foreign supplier of industrial machinery.  The risk for Germany is that it becomes overly reliant on
growth in China, which is currently trying to cool its economy
by raising  interest rates .  “Exploding prices and an uneven distribution of wealth in
the country make for a dangerous cocktail,” Anton Boerner,
President of Germany’s BGA exporters’ association, said in a
speech in Berlin on March 9. “We are becoming more worried
about the stability of the Chinese economy.”  China is also increasingly able to produce its own
industrial machinery, raising the possibility that German firms
could lose market share, said Veronique Riches-Flores, head of
thematic research at  Societe Generale  in Paris.  “The segments of production where China is making a lot of
progress are precisely the segments where German performance has
been very strong,” she said. “Chinese manufacturers are
becoming more and more specialized.”  Still, about 60 percent of German exports go to the
European Union, and as the U.S. returns to growth, sales to the
world’s largest economy are likely to increase.  “We are undoubtedly seeing a shift in the centre of
gravity,” said Fred Irwin, President of the American Chamber of
Commerce in  Frankfurt . “But with German firms opening factories
both in the U.S. and in China, it’s a win-win situation for
them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  