-- 
Glaxo Said to Be Among Three Bidders for Turkey’s Biofarma

-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 
2011-04-07T06:27:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/glaxo-said-to-be-among-three-bidders-for-turkey-s-biofarma.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  is among three
potential buyers of Turkish drugmaker  Biofarma Pharmaceutical
Industry Co. , two people with knowledge of the matter said.  The other prospective bidders also are multinational
companies, the people said yesterday, declining to be identified
because the auction isn’t public. A winning bidder may be chosen
within two to three months, one of the people said. Biofarma, an
Istanbul-based maker of generic drugs, is valued between $600
million and $700 million, the person said.  Citi Venture Capital International , a unit of  Citigroup
Inc. (C) , and Partners in Life Sciences bought Biofarma from its
Turkish owners in 2006 and sold a stake to Greek private-equity
firm  Global Finance  in 2007. The owners want to sell and hired
JPMorgan Chase & Co. to manage the sale, the people said.  Bayer AG, Glaxo,  Novartis AG (NOVN) ,  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  and more than
30 other international drugmakers operate in Turkey, a
pharmaceutical market with $9.2 billion of sales last year,
according to the website of the Istanbul-based  Pharmaceutical
Manufacturers Association of Turkey.   Duncan Smith, a spokesman for Citigroup, and Alexandra Harrison, a spokeswoman for Glaxo, declined to comment
yesterday. Biofarma Chief Executive Officer Umur Sudekan didn’t
reply to an e-mailed request for comment. A JPMorgan spokeswoman
declined to comment.  Abdi Ibrahim Ilac Sanayi & Ticaret , Turkey’s biggest
pharmaceutical company, said last May that it was in talks with
four or five drugmakers to sell as much as 40 percent of the
company. Zentiva NV, a Czech drugmaker, bought 75 percent of the
generic drug unit of  Turkey ’s Eczacibasi in 2007 for 460 million
euros ($660 million.) It purchased the remaining 25 percent
stake two years ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 