-- 
Glenn Beck Leaves as Fox Host for New Role Developing Programs for Network

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-04-06T20:37:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/glenn-beck-leaves-as-fox-host-for-new-role-with-news-network-1-.html
Glenn Beck , the controversial Fox
News host, is leaving his daily talk show to produce new
programs for the channel.  Fox News and Beck’s production company, Mercury Radio Arts,
will develop projects for the network, cable television’s most-
watched news channel, and its website, the companies said today
in a statement.  Beck’s ratings have fallen from a year ago, when he ranked
among the 40 most-watched cable shows. In the first quarter of
this year, he attracted an average of 1.95 million viewers, down
29 percent from a year earlier, according to Nielsen Co. data.
He averaged 464,000 viewers in the 25-to-54-year-old demographic
that advertisers target, a 35 percent drop.  Later this year, Beck, 47, plans “to transition” off the
program, the third most-watched daily news series on cable,
according to the network. Joel Cheatwood, senior vice president
of development at Fox News, is joining Mercury Radio Arts on
April 24 to manage the partnership and serve as a liaison.  News Corp. (NWSA) , the New York-based parent of Fox News, fell 21
cents to $17.56 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading. The Class A shares have climbed 21 percent this year.  Media Matters for America, an advocacy group backed partly
by billionaire  George Soros , a target of Beck’s, applauded the
change on its website.  “After losing more than 300 advertisers and seeing more
than 1 million viewers abandon his show, the only surprise is
that it took Fox News months to reach this decision,” David
Brock, founder of Media Matters, said in a  website  posting.  Attacks on Democrats  Beck has been criticized for his attacks on Democrats,
including President  Barack Obama , The Washington Post reported
today. The talk-show host has also targeted Soros, linking the
billionaire to Nazi atrocities in Soros’s native  Hungary  during
World War II, the Post said. Beck’s comments about Soros last
fall drew denunciations from Jewish groups.  Roger Ailes, chairman and chief executive officer of Fox
News, praised the departing host in a statement.  “Glenn Beck is a powerful communicator, a creative
entrepreneur and a true success by anybody’s standards,” Ailes
said in the statement. “I look forward to continuing to work
with him.”  Beck’s show airs at 5 p.m. New York time. In the current
season, Fox News is averaging 465,000 prime-time viewers in the
targeted age demographic of 25 to 54, down 17 percent from
558,000 year earlier according to Nielsen data. MSNBC, part of
 Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , averages 260,000 and  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s  CNN  is
averaging 214,000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  