-- 
Goldman Seeking to Buy Rest of Australian, New Zealand Unit It Doesn’t Own

-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 
2011-04-07T07:34:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/goldman-sachs-seeks-to-buy-remaining-55-australia-n-z-unit.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  plans to
buy out its Australian partners to take full control of its
business in  Asia ’s third-biggest investment-banking market.  The Wall Street firm is seeking the remaining 55 percent of
Goldman Sachs & Partners Australia Group Holdings Pty and needs
approval from 75 percent of those shareholders, Goldman Sachs
said in a statement today, without giving details of the
proposal. The offer values the whole business at between A$800
million ($835 million) and A$1.2 billion, the Australian
Financial Review said.  “This is the next logical step,” said Alastair Walton,
who was the co-chairman and managing director of Goldman Sachs’
Australian business and helped create the current venture in
2003. “The key thing the firm must do is maintain its
Australian cultural identity, which is critical in this
marketplace.” Walton is now chairman of independent advisory
firm BKK Partners Pty in Sydney.  Australia trails only  Japan  and  China  in the value of deals
in Asia this year as buyers snap up resources firms fueling the
world’s fastest-growing major economies, China and  India .
Goldman Sachs’s Australian dealmakers trailed top-placed
colleagues in  North America  last year.  “Australia and New Zealand represent an important part of
our growth strategy,” Lloyd C. Blankfein, chairman and chief
executive officer of Goldman Sachs, said in the statement.
“This investment underscores our desire to continue to
strengthen our Australasian client franchise.”  Sliding Rank  Melbourne-based Goldman Sachs & Partners, which also has
offices in Sydney and Auckland, fell to fifth among arrangers of
takeovers involving Australian companies last year from the top
place in 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Profit
at the unit last year declined as trading income and fees
slumped, it said in an annual report.  Blankfein is attempting to invest more in Australia as
local companies turn into takeover candidates. Of the $121.6
billion in takeovers of companies in the Asia Pacific region
this year, Australian targets account for $20.31 billion,
according to Bloomberg data. That compares with Japan’s $20.33
billion and trails the $23.6 billion in China, the data show.  Minmetals Resources Ltd., a unit of China’s biggest metals
trader, on April 4 bid C$6.3 billion ($6.6 billion) for Perth-
based copper producer Equinox Minerals Ltd. Sydney-based
 Whitehaven Coal Ltd. (WHC) , whose advisors include Goldman Sachs &
Partners, put itself up for sale in October.  Minority Owner  New York-based Goldman Sachs, which owns all its Asian
operations other than the businesses in China and Australia, has
held a minority stake in the Australian firm since 2003, when it
agreed to buy 45 percent of JBWere Ltd., Australia’s biggest
closely held brokerage at the time. That left some Goldman Sachs
and JBWere workers owning 55 percent of the company.  The venture’s sale of most of its private client business
in 2009 made a full takeover more attractive to Goldman Sachs, a
person familiar with the matter said last week.  There are about 130 equity-owning partners in the Australia
and  New Zealand  businesses, another person said. The firm paid
out A$59.8 million to those shareholders last year, according to
the annual report.  Profit after tax at Goldman Sachs & Partners was A$94.9
million in 2010 compared with A$272.3 million in the 13 months
ended Dec. 31, 2009, when the business changed its fiscal year.  Commission Earnings  Last year, the Australian and New Zealand operations made
more than four times as much from commissions and other fees,
which made up 64 percent of operating income, as it did from
trading. The business had net assets of A$813.2 million as of
Dec. 31, 2010.  The firm was the fifth-ranked equity underwriter in
Australia and New Zealand last year, and is placed seventh so
far in 2011. UBS AG has held the top spot since 2005.  The Australian business has been moving closer to its U.S.
shareholder in recent years. Last August, the unit changed its
name from Goldman Sachs JBWere Pty. That followed the sale in
2009 of 80 percent of its private client business to National
 Australia  Bank Ltd. and the rights to the JBWere name.  “The move to full ownership by Goldman Sachs is a natural
progression for the business,” Simon Rothery, Co-CEO of Goldman
Sachs & Partners, said in the statement.  Australian and New Zealand listed companies raised $27.2
billion worth of shares in 2010, down from $53.5 billion in 2009.
The value of takeovers in 2010 involving Australian companies
was $154.2 billion, compared with $63.2 billion in 2009,
according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  