-- 
Goldman Oil Banker Montgomery Said to Leave for Buyout Job

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 
2011-04-06T23:24:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/goldman-oil-banker-montgomery-to-leave-said-to-plan-buyout-job.html
William Montgomery, a senior  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  banker to the oil and gas industry, is leaving
the firm’s Houston office and plans to join a local private-
equity firm, said a person with knowledge of his plans.  Montgomery, 49, may join  Quantum Energy Partners  later this
year, said the person, who spoke on condition of anonymity. His
retirement is effective May 31, Goldman Sachs said in a
memorandum last month that was confirmed by  Andrea Rachman , a
Goldman Sachs spokeswoman.  Montgomery was part of Goldman Sachs teams that advised
 Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) , the largest oilfield services company, on its
$11 billion acquisition of Smith International Inc. last year,
and counseled  Apache Corp. (APA)  on its $7 billion purchase of assets
from  BP Plc (BP/)  in the wake of the London-based oil company’s Gulf
of Mexico spill.  After joining Goldman Sachs from Merrill Lynch & Co. in
2000, Montgomery became a partner in 2002, the memo said. He
headed the natural resources investment banking group in the
Americas from 2003 to 2007. Outside of his banking work, he is a
former chairman of the board of trustees of the  Houston Museum
of Natural Science  and of the St. Francis Episcopal Day School.  Quantum, founded in Houston in 1998 by a group including
Wil VanLoh Jr., manages $5.7 billion of investments in the
energy industry, according to its website. It raised its fifth,
$2.5 billion fund in 2009.  Beverly Jernigan, a spokeswoman for Quantum, had no
immediate comment.  London  to Houston  A Goldman Sachs banker in London, Suhail Sikhtian, will
move to Houston and become co-chief operating officer of the
global natural resources group along with Stephan Feldgoise,
Goldman Sachs said in a separate memo last month. Steve Daniel
remains head of the Houston office, and is co-head of energy
globally along with Alastair Maxwell, the memo said.  Goldman Sachs worked on $63.8 billion of mergers and
acquisitions in the oil and gas industry over the past 12
months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, for a market
share second only to Barclays Plc’s Barclays Capital unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 