-- 
Google Executives Visit White House as Washington Focuses on TV Spectrums

-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 
2011-04-06T17:25:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/google-at-white-house-as-washington-focuses-on-spectrum-auctions.html
The Obama administration’s plan to
allocate TV stations’ excess airwaves for use by wireless
Internet services received support from 112 economists at a
White House event that featured  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s chief economist.  The effort would help move away from “old spectrum
allocations based on out-of-date assumptions,” the economists
said in a letter released today at the White House.  The administration proposes paying TV broadcasters for
vacating little-used airwaves. The sale may bring almost $28
billion in auction fees, help meet burgeoning demand for
airwaves as more consumers turn to smartphones, and spark new
wireless industries, said Council of Economic Advisers Chairman
 Austan Goolsbee .  “We can make America’s spectrum, which is a crucial
resource, an engine of prosperity and an engine of innovation,”
he said.  “If we provide proper incentives, we will see much better
ways to provide spectrum,” said Hal Varian, Google’s chief
economist. He was among four economists to speak following
comments from Federal Communications Commission Chairman Julius Genachowski, who said demand for spectrum “is rapidly
outstripping supply.”  The administration wants Congress to give the FCC authority
to set up auctions that would draw voluntary participation from
broadcasters. The  National Association of Broadcasters , a
Washington-based trade group, has said the U.S. should conduct
an inventory of airwaves use before acting.  House Hearing Planned  Lawmakers plan  an initial hearing  next week before a House
subcommittee on communications and technology.  Representative Greg Walden, an Oregon Republican and
chairman of the subcommittee, “has said that there should be a
way to design the auction to make it worth broadcasters’ while”
to return spectrum or to share airwaves, Andrew Whelan, a
spokesman for Walden, said in an e-mail.  “It’s disappointing that a broadcast representative was
not invited to be part of this dialogue,”  Dennis Wharton , a
spokesman for the National Association of Broadcasters, said in
an e-mail.  The trade group “welcomes an opportunity to work with the
White House, Congress and the FCC to address spectrum capacity
challenges while not jeopardizing the future of broadcasting,”
Wharton said.  “The administration and the FCC have been earnest in
pushing forward on getting more spectrum out,”  Rebecca Arbogast , a Washington-based analyst with Stifel Nicolaus & Co.,
said in an e-mail.  “Inviting the broadcasters to attend an event promoting
spectrum auctions would be a little like inviting your ex to
your prenup party,” she said. “Might be OK, but you never know
what they might say.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  