-- 
Google, Warren Buffett May Be Next Wind-Turbine Buyers, Suzlon, Vestas Say

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-04-06T15:29:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/google-buffett-may-be-wind-turbine-buyers-say-suzlon-vestas.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Warren Buffett ’s
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  have shown interest in buying  wind
turbines  to supply power along railroad lines and at computer
server farms, two of the world’s largest manufacturers said.  “Railroads could be huge potential customers of wind
turbines, and companies like Google have already shown some
interest,” Andris Cukurs, head of North American operations at
 Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) , said in an interview. “We expect to see
more large energy consumers get involved directly in wind.”  Suzlon, India’s largest turbine manufacturer, and Vestas
Wind systems A/S, the world’s biggest, are seeking to attract
customers outside their traditional base of independent power
producers after a drop in orders from U.S. developers such as
 NextEra Energy Inc. (NEE)  and  Exelon Corp. (EXC)   “In  North America , we’ve totally restructured our sales
force and hired more engineers to work with customers that don’t
have much experience with wind farms,” Martha Wyrsch, president
of Vestas’s unit in the region, said in an interview. “We are
seeing a lot of interest from carbon-conscious companies that we
never saw before.”  The comments at the Bloomberg New Energy Finance conference
in New York indicate the measures turbine makers are adopting to
make up for a lull in orders.  Sales in the U.S. from all manufacturers probably will
remain 30 percent below 2009 levels this year, near 2010 levels
when machines with a capacity to generate 4,900 megawatts were
installed, the London-based researcher estimates. State
renewable-energy mandates that encourage turbine sales will
require a total of about 4,800 megawatts a year through 2020.  ‘Traditional’ Sales  “Traditional developers will continue to make up most of
the market,” said Amy Grace, a wind energy analyst for New
Energy Finance in  New York . She said corporate boards seeking to
burnish their environmental credentials could encourage
development of up to 1,000 megawatts a year in the next decade.  Google, the world’s largest web-search engine, in October
said it will help develop a $5 billion high-voltage transmission
line that could connect to offshore wind turbines off the
Atlantic Coast from  New Jersey  to Virginia. The company hasn’t
ordered any wind turbines to build wind farms, said Parag
Chokshi, a spokesman for the Mountain View, California-based
company.  Burlington Northern Santa Fe Corp., the railroad owned by
Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway, delivers turbine parts to
developers and hasn’t bought any for its own use, Steven
Forsberg, a spokesman, said in an e-mail.  “Our wind resource and siting capabilities can help any
customer that doesn’t know wind,” Vestas’ Wyrsch said. “It’s
an important market for us going forward, but the independent
power producers will continue to be our biggest customers.”  Obama’s Push  President  Barack Obama  in January called for 80 percent of
U.S. electricity to come from “clean” energy sources by 2035,
including solar and wind, as well as nuclear, cleaner coal and
natural gas.  The best wind projects will cost about the same as new
coal-fired plants, according to New Energy Finance estimates.  Electricity from new wind projects built today in the most
windy areas cost about $65 a megawatt-hour, the researcher says.
Power from a new coal-fired power plant costs about $68 a
megawatt-hour, including carbon price and project finance risk.  “We’re taking advantage of the low-demand regime by
improving efficiency, and seeking non-traditional markets,”
Cukurs said. “We’re getting customers in new markets that
hadn’t considered wind power before in  Illinois , Michigan and
Indiana. These areas are less transmission-constrained than,
say, Texas.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in Bnef Summit at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  