-- 
Gordhan Says South Africa Mines Debate May Deter Investors

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-04-06T20:37:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/gordhan-says-south-africa-mines-debate-may-deter-investors-1-.html
South African Finance Minister
 Pravin Gordhan  said the debate about the nationalization of the
country’s mines may scare off foreign investment.  The debate “may distract people and perhaps even divert
them to other jurisdictions,” Gordhan said in a panel
discussion on the e News television channel today. “Remember
that we are in a competitive world.”  Calls for the seizure of the country’s mines have been led
by the ruling  African National Congress ’ Youth League, which
says the country’s mineral wealth needs to be more widely
shared. The party decided in September that further research was
needed before policy changes could be considered and plans to
debate the issue at a policy conference next year.  Mining generates 30 percent of  South Africa ’s export
revenue, 18 percent of its corporate taxes and 500,000 direct
jobs, according to the Mines Ministry. The country is the
world’s biggest producer of platinum and chrome, and the third-
biggest gold producer.  Melbourne, Australia-based BHP Billiton Ltd., London-based
Rio Tinto Group and  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  are among companies with
a stake in South Africa’s mineral resources, which Citigroup
Inc. has valued at $2.5 trillion.  “If you want the best to come to South Africa then you
have to create the environment,” Gordhan said. “The more we
say these words, hopefully those who need to listen will
listen.”  5 Million Jobs  South Africa is aiming to create 5 million jobs in the next
decade to slash the jobless rate to 15 percent from 24 percent
currently. Companies have argued that government plans to outlaw
labor broking and compel employers to hire workers on a
permanent basis may deter hiring. Brokers typically arrange
short-term contracts.  The new laws “certainly impose new responsibilities” and
are not intended to make it more difficult for companies to do
business, Gordhan said. “We will have to look at that. At the
end of the day, government has to reconcile all of the different
interests, and ensure that the national interest is the dominant
one.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  