-- 
U.S. Government Shutdown Would Suspend IRS Audits, Close National Parks

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 
2011-04-06T22:42:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/government-shutdown-would-suspend-irs-audits-close-parks-2-.html
The  Internal Revenue Service  would
suspend tax audits, the  Small Business Administration ’s
processing of loan applications would be halted and national
parks would close if the federal government is forced into a
partial shutdown because of the budget impasse in Congress, an
administration official said.  Government programs that have an impact on the economy
would be among the operations hit, including a suspension of
loan guarantees by the  Federal Housing Administration  and
Environmental Protection Agency reviews of construction
projects, according to the official, who briefed reporters on
condition of anonymity.  About 800,000 government workers out of 2 million total
would be affected by a shutdown, the official said. Military,
 law enforcement ,  homeland security  and other personnel deemed
essential would remain on duty, though their paychecks would be
delayed until the government reopens.  The Obama administration is preparing for the potential of
a partial government shutdown that may come as soon as this
weekend unless the White House and congressional Republicans can
come to terms on a budget for the rest of the 2011 fiscal year.
President  Barack Obama  met at the White House yesterday with
lawmakers on the budget dispute and has called for daily
negotiations to settle differences.  Economic Impact  Today in Fairless Hills,  Pennsylvania , Obama said the
stalemate threatens the U.S. economic recovery just as it is
gaining momentum.  “Companies don’t like uncertainty, and if they start
seeing that suddenly we may have a shutdown of our government,
that could halt momentum right when we need to build it up,” he
said. “I do not want to see Washington politics stand in the
way of America’s progress.”  Joel Naroff , president of Naroff Economic Advisors in
Holland, Pennsylvania, said the impact of any shutdown would be
“relatively mild.”  “What we wind up with is the weaker growth this year
probably will be in the second quarter, and stronger growth will
be in the third quarter,” he said. “Ultimately it’s not going
to be a huge impact, as long as it’s not particularly long.”  While the last government shutdown, which began in December
1995, did delay releases of economic data, it only reduced
economic output by about $4.6 billion and growth by about three-
tenths of a percent, said  David Resler , chief economist at
Nomura Securities International Inc. in  New York .  “The bottom line is that it does not appear to have had a
big effect,” he said.  Stocks Advance  The threat of a government shutdown didn’t impede an
advance by U.S. stocks. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose to
1,335.54, less than 0.6 percent below a 32-month high reached in
February, and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  climbed to an
almost three-year high of 12,426.8.  Current spending authority for government operations is set
to expire on April 8, and lawmakers remain at odds on approving
a budget for the rest of the fiscal year, which ends Sept. 30.
The government has been operating on a series of temporary
spending measures, and Obama has said he is opposed to another
extension unless a full agreement is reached by the deadline.  Still, a top Senate Democrat said he was more optimistic
than earlier in the week that an accord could be reached.  “I feel better today than I did yesterday,” said Senator
 Dick Durbin  of  Illinois , the chamber’s second-ranking Democrat.
“There’s a direct negotiation. There have been things put on
the table that had not been discussed before, and I think that
we’re moving toward closure.”  ‘Some Progress’  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, said talks
today resulted in “some progress.” He also cautioned that the
negotiations weren’t finished “by a long shot.”  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said the president
has invited Boehner and Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a
Nevada Democrat, to the White House tonight.  Obama had called the two men this morning to get an update
on negotiations, and Carney said the president had a “good
conversation” with each of them.  By late afternoon, the president “decided that not enough
progress has been made” and invited Boehner and Reid to meet
with him, Carney told reporters aboard Air Force One traveling
with the president to New York.  Boehner told Democrats at the closed White House meeting
yesterday that he wants to slice $40 billion from current
spending, according to an administration official. That is $7
billion higher than the $33 billion plan lawmakers had been
working to assemble.  Parks and Museums  In the event of a shutdown, national parks and the
Smithsonian Institution’s museums would close, this weekend’s
 Cherry Blossom  parade in  Washington  would be canceled and the
 National Institutes of Health  couldn’t admit new patients or
start new clinical trials.  While the IRS would continue electronic tax-return
processing, work on paper returns would be suspended. For the
2009 tax year, the last full year for which data are available,
about 69 percent of individual income tax returns were filed
electronically, according to the IRS.  Employees deemed non-essential would be barred from working
in the event of a shutdown, a legal distinction that dates to
1981. Furloughed employees may not volunteer to do their
government jobs and Congress would have to decide if they were
to receive back pay when government operations resume.  The last government shutdown occurred amid a budget dispute
between Democratic President  Bill Clinton  and the Republican-
controlled House and Senate. That resulted in two instances, a
five-day stretch in November 1995 and one of 21 days from mid-
December 1995 into early January 1996.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  