-- 
Grammys Trims Categories to Pit Lady Gaga Against Bruno Mars

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-04-06T19:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/grammys-slims-down-award-categories-to-pit-lady-gaga-against-bruno-mars.html
Lady Gaga and Bruno Mars, winners of
Grammys this year for female and male pop singers, will now have
to compete for one award after the show’s producer cut the
number of categories.  The Grammys will grant 78 awards next year, 28 percent
fewer than the 109 this year, the  Santa Monica , California-based
Recording Academy said today at a press conference. The number
of nominations in each category was raised to 40 from 25.  The goal is to reduce overlapping categories and increase
competition, Neil Portinow, the Grammys’s president, said at the
news conference. Male and female categories in pop and country
fields are being combined, as are the contests for hard rock and
heavy metal groups. Awards for best album, record, song and new
artist weren’t altered. The telecast, which airs on  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s
network, drew its biggest audience since 2001 in February.  For next year’s awards, four areas were renamed. The
category for musical show is now musical theater, while
film/TV/other visual media becomes music for visual media. The
gospel category has been renamed gospel/contemporary Christian
music field, and dance will be dance/electronica.  The Recording Academy said members can now vote on 20 genre
fields and for best album, record, song and new artist. Also, if
a category gets fewer than 39 entries, only three recordings
will be nominated. Awards won’t be granted in categories with
fewer than 25 nominations, and those categories will be
discontinued if the criteria aren’t met for three straight
years, the Recording Academy said.  CBS, controlled by Chairman  Sumner Redstone , fell 36 cents
or 1.4 percent to $24.67 at 2:39 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. Before today, the shares gained 31 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  