-- 
Grupo Mexico, Patagonia, Petrobras: Latin America Equity Preview

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 
2011-04-06T06:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/grupo-mexico-patagonia-petrobras-latin-america-equity-preview.html
The following companies may have
unusual price changes in Latin American trading. Stock symbols
are in parentheses and share prices reflect the previous close.  The MSCI Latin America Index rose for the sixth session,
advancing 0.4 percent to 4,729.96.  Argentina  Banco Patagonia SA (BPAT)  : Argentine competition
regulators approved Banco do Brasil SA’s purchase of a 51
percent stake in Banco Patagonia SA, according to a statement
posted on the Buenos Aires stock exchange’s website. Patagonia
stock fell 0.4 percent to 5.28 pesos.  Brazil   LLX Logistica SA (LLXL3)  (LLXL3 BS): The logistics company
controlled by Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista  was awarded a
1.5 billion-real ($932.5 million) contract for the construction
of two terminals at Brazil’s Acu port in Sao Joao da Barra, the
O Globo newspaper reported on its website, without saying where
it got the information. LLX slipped 1.1 percent to 5.20 reais.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  (PETR4 BS): The state-controlled  oil
company  may sell bonds in pounds and euros this year and won’t
sell debt in U.S. dollars for the rest of the year, Chief
Financial Officer  Almir Barbassa  told reporters in  Sao Paulo .
The stock declined 0.8 percent to 28.37 reais.  QGEP Participacoes SA (QGEP3 BS): The oil company owned by
Queiroz Galvao SA was rated “hold” in new coverage at Banco
Santander SA. The brokerage has a share-price forecast of 27
reais, analysts led by Christian Audi wrote in a report. The
shares declined 0.6 percent to 23.80 reais.  Vale SA (VALE3)  (VALE5 BS): The world’s largest  iron-ore  producer
reiterated its target for producing 320 million metric tons of
iron ore this year. The company lost output in the first quarter
of this year due to rains and floods and will step up production
to make up for lost output in the rest of the year, Michael Zhu,
Vale’s global bulk material sales director, said at a conference
in  Singapore . Vale added 0.1 percent to 48.30 reais.  Colombia   Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL)  : The country’s largest oil
company will issue shares this year, which will be followed by a
separate government sale of the company’s stock pending approval
by Congress, Colombia’s Mines Minister Carlos Rodado said in
Cartagena. The shares added 0.4 percent to 3,895 pesos.  Mexico   Grupo Mexico SAB (GMEXICOB MM): Copper probably will reach
record high prices in the second half of the year as demand
outpaces supply, GFMS Ltd., a London-based consulting firm, said
in its Copper Survey 2011. Shares of Grupo Mexico, the country’s
largest mining company, slipped 1.1 percent to 44.50 pesos.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 dpapadopoulos@bloomberg.net  