-- 
Libyan Banks, Oil Companies Targeted for UN Asset Freeze

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-04-06T20:52:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/libyan-banks-oil-companies-targeted-for-un-asset-freeze.html
The U.S. and its European allies are
seeking at the  United Nations  to freeze the foreign assets of 10
Libyan  oil companies , eight banks, the national broadcasting
corporation and Muammar Qaddafi’s wife, Safia.  Britain, France, Germany and the U.S. have proposed lists
of 24 persons and 30 companies, banks and foundations to be
subject to the asset freeze and travel ban imposed by a  Security
Council  resolution adopted on Feb. 26. Unless any council member
objects by 5 p.m. tomorrow, the names will be added to those
previously designated.  “It is very important because, with the asset freeze, it
will be very difficult for Qaddafi to buy the arms and dual-use
vehicles such as four-wheel drive vehicles that he is using
extensively,”  Ibrahim Dabbashi ,  Libya ’s former deputy
ambassador to the UN, said in an interview. Dabbashi broke with
the regime and says he now represents the opposition Interim
Transitional National Council, based in Benghazi.  Most of the banks and companies are described in documents
as a “potential source of income” for the Qaddafi regime. The
Libyan Jamahirya Broadcasting Corp. is cited for “public
incitement to hatred and violence through participation in
disinformation campaigns concerning violence against
demonstrators.”  Included among the banks and businesses are the  National
Commercial Bank  and the Sirte, Ras Lanuf, Waha and Brega oil
companies. The companies are described as being “owned or
controlled by the Libyan National Oil Corporation,” whose
assets were frozen by the UN resolution adopted on March 17.  Crude oil for May delivery rose 49 cents to $108.83 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest
settlement since Sept. 22, 2008. Prices are up 25 percent from a
year ago. Libya holds Africa’s largest reserves.  Buying Arms  Dabbashi said that while the companies aren’t exporting
oil, they are using assets outside Libya to purchase arms or
vehicles. He said the list of government officials, which
includes Prime Minister Al Baghdadi Ali al-Mahmoudi, is
important because Qaddafi has disbursed “billions” of dollars
to them for use during the current crisis.  Qaddafi, his seven sons, his daughter, two cousins and 11
other government officials were previously hit with a travel ban
and asset freeze, and the assets of the  Central Bank  of  Libya
were frozen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  