-- 
ICE May Scrap NYSE Bid If U.S. Raises Concerns about Futures, Hintz Says

-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 
2011-04-06T20:13:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/ice-may-drop-nyse-bid-if-u-s-takes-on-clearing-hintz-says-1-.html
IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  may
drop out of its joint bid for NYSE Euronext if the U.S.
Department of Justice raises concerns about the deal’s combined
futures business, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.’s Brad Hintz said.  ICE, the second-largest U.S. futures market, and  Nasdaq OMX
Group Inc. (NDAQ)  made an unsolicited offer for NYSE Euronext last
week, valued at $11.3 billion, countering  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) ’s
February offer for $9.53 billion. In the proposal, Atlanta-based
ICE would take NYSE’s Liffe futures-trading markets, expanding
in  Europe . New York-based Nasdaq OMX would take NYSE Euronext’s
listings, equity and options units.  ICE and CME Group Inc., the world’s largest futures market,
own their own clearinghouses, which may create barriers to entry
and be anti-competitive, the  U.S. Department of Justice  said in
2008. Equity and options exchanges -- such as those owned by
NYSE Euronext and Nasdaq OMX -- use centralized clearinghouses
like OCC that aren’t owned by any one market.  “The most important issue facing these competing offers is
the possibility that the ICE/NYSE Liffe merger will resurrect
DOJ concerns with vertical integration of futures execution and
clearing,” Hintz, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in New
York, wrote in a e-mailed note today. “If this issue arises ICE
will likely drop out of the bidding and the Deutsche Boerse deal
moves forward.”  Value of Bid  ICE shares advanced 2.2 percent to $122.49 at 4 p.m. New
York time after falling 3 percent from its announcement of the
bid April 1 through yesterday. Nasdaq OMX rose 3 percent to
$28.83. The value of their bid for  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  increased to
$43.56 a share, up 1.7 percent from yesterday’s level. NYSE
Euronext climbed 2.1 percent to $39.81 today. Frankfurt-based
Deutsche Boerse increased 1 percent to 52.10 euros.  Clearinghouses are member-funded organizations that
guarantee transactions and monitor collateral, acting as the
central counterparties for every buy and sell order executed by
their members.  Congress last year ordered that most standardized over-the-
counter derivatives in the U.S. be guaranteed by clearinghouses
and traded on exchanges or swap-execution facilities, also known
as SEFs. The requirement followed a 100-fold surge in trading of
credit-default contracts over seven years, which made oversight
of the financial system more difficult.  U.S. regulators are writing rules for the swap platforms
and the products that will be traded on them, while the European
Union is considering plans to increase the use of clearinghouses
with draft rules proposed by the commission in September. The
global market for such transactions was $583 trillion as of
June, according to the Basel-based Bank for International Swap-
Trade Settlements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in  New York  at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  