-- 
Microsoft Works With Toyota on Software That Cuts Power Use in Automobiles

-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 
2011-04-06T19:14:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/microsoft-toyota-partner-on-efficiency-oriented-auto-software.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203)  are forming a partnership to develop in-car electronics
systems that help battery-powered vehicles run more efficiently.  The companies will jointly invest 1 billion yen ($11.7
million) in Toyota Media Service Co., a Toyota subsidiary that
provides data services to drivers, the companies said in a
statement today. The system will include navigation and in-car
entertainment using Microsoft’s Windows Azure software. It will
also manage energy use in vehicles.  Automakers are adding a broader range of entertainment and
power-saving tools to entice buyers to adopt electric vehicles.
Microsoft needs more customers to ensure success for Azure, its
cloud software for enabling companies to build and provide
software that can be delivered as a service over the Internet.  Microsoft Chief Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer  and Toyota
President Akio Toyoda plan to discuss the project with reporters
later today. The system relies on so-called telematics, which
involve the integration of wireless communications and computing
systems, often in vehicle navigation.  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  have expanded the
range of technology services available in cars as well. Ford,
for instance, also offers an in-car electronics system developed
with Microsoft.  Toyota aims to distinguish its system by including features
that can improve a vehicle’s energy efficiency. An electric
car’s range can vary significantly based on how drivers use
heating and cooling systems, and other in-car functions powered
by electricity.  Managing Energy Use  Toyota, based in Toyota City,  Japan , said it’s already
testing a telematics system in its home country that links
drivers, cars and homes to help manage energy consumption.
Toyota plans next year to start selling a plug-in version of its
Prius hybrid. It also plans a tiny two-passenger electric car
and a rechargeable RAV4 sport-utility vehicle with a battery
system from  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)   The partnership between Microsoft, based in Redmond,
Washington, and Toyota “is an important step in developing
greater future mobility and energy management for consumers
around the world,” Toyota’s Toyoda said in the statement.  Toyota has been an early customer for Azure, with the
carmaker saying last year that it was using the software to
track thousands of roadside assistance calls for its Lexus cars.
Azure competes with programs from Amazon.com Inc., Google Inc.
and Salesforce.com Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alan Ohnsman  in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at   kinoue@bloomberg.net . 