-- 
Tiger Woods Pins Video Golf Sales on Augusta Aspirants

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u   a n d   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-04-06T04:00:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/tiger-woods-pins-video-golf-sales-on-demand-by-augusta-national-aspirants.html
Barry Danz wanted to play the
Augusta National Golf Club  course  alongside his 10-year-old
son, so he spent $50 for what may be the closest thing to
one of the most coveted rounds in the sport.  Danz, a 40-year-old financial executive from
Alpharetta, Georgia, was among practice-round spectators
emerging from the  Masters Tournament  merchandise pavilion
on April 4 with Tiger Woods’s new  Electronic Arts Inc. (ERTS) 
video game, the first to feature Augusta National, where
the major championship starts tomorrow.  A year after sales of Woods’s previous game version
dropped by almost two-thirds, the fact that he has
acknowledged extramarital affairs, hasn’t won a tournament
since November 2009 and has slipped to No. 7 in golf’s
world  rankings  didn’t matter to Danz and other buyers.  “I bought the game because my son wants to play
Augusta National and I want to play Augusta National,”
said Danz, who plays golf with his son, Ryan, at the
 Standard Club , about 30 miles north of Atlanta. “My son
would probably think it’s neat to have Tiger on it. He
doesn’t know a whole lot about what’s happened with Tiger.
I would prefer he doesn’t.”  “Tiger Woods PGA Tour 12” took two years to produce
and went on sale March 29. The partnership between EA, the
second-largest U.S.  video-game  publisher, and the 79-year-
old club in Augusta, Georgia, where play is limited to
about 300 members such as Microsoft Corp. co-founder  Bill Gates  and Berkshire Hathaway Inc. Chairman  Warren Buffett 
and their guests, was announced in January. Both sides said
at the time that the project is aimed at boosting sales for
the  Redwood City , California-based video-game maker and
increasing the popularity of the tournament among a younger
audience.  ‘Younger Demographic’  “We expect huge things this year,” Craig Evans, EA
Sports’s director of marketing, said in a telephone
interview March 25. “By getting this younger demographic
interested in the Masters and golf, we all feel
collectively that’s how we’re going to grow the game of
golf. That really is the genesis of the partnership.”  The game’s previous version,  Tiger Woods  PGA Tour 11,
had sold 631,000 units in the U.S. through March 2011, down
from 1.6 million for the 2010 edition, according to the NPD
Group, a  Port Washington , New York-based market research
firm.  Sales figures of the new game won’t be available until
next month, the group said.  In addition to Woods’s off-course issues affecting
potential buyers, many video-game players chose not to
spend for a “glorified roster update,” said Jason Wilson,
group managing editor at San Francisco-based GamePro Media.  Electronic Arts Sales  Electronic Arts forecasts sales in the fourth quarter
ended in March of $850 million to $950 million, excluding
changes in deferred revenue. That compares with analysts’
projections of $935.1 million. Profit is projected at 15
cents to 25 cents a share, excluding some items, compared
with analysts’ estimates of 22 cents a share. The company’s
shares have risen 22.3 percent this year.  Woods, winner of 14 majors, is a four-time winner of
the Masters championship, but this is the first time his
video game has been sold at the tournament. Club officials
won’t disclose details of their agreement with EA. Any
proceeds the club receives from game sales will go to the
Masters Tournament Foundation, created this year to help
fund international growth of golf, Masters Chairman Billy Payne said in January.  Most Popular Courses  Previous versions of Woods’s game featured many of
golf’s most popular courses, including  California ’s  Pebble
Beach Golf Links  and the Old Course at  Scotland ’s  St.
Andrews  Links. Augusta National, which controls its image
from the Masters-branded potato chips it sells on the
course to how CBS Corp. produces the tournament’s telecast,
held out until it was assured the course would be
accurately portrayed.  “Technology isn’t what held this back,” Wilson said.
“It’s the leadership at Augusta National. It protects its
interests fiercely. Nothing happens that’s related to
Augusta without their approval.”  The course was laser-mapped over 10 days in late 2010,
allowing it to be recreated within 6 millimeters of
accuracy, EA’s Evans said. Club officials oversaw every
aspect of the creation. Evans recalled a visit to the
course about six months ago, when some 500 balls were hit
onto the 13th green to test the direction they would roll.  “We’d think we nailed it,” he said. “They’d point
out that it wouldn’t break 3 feet to the right, it would
break 6 feet. So we were really able to get an incredible
level of detail.”  ‘A Great Golfer’  While buyers of the game such as Danz said they didn’t
approve of Woods’s off-course conduct, most said they were
able to separate that from his golf.  “All Tiger Woods is to me is a great golfer,” said
Marco Sandrin, a 49-year-old cardiologist from  Montreal ,
who bought the game for his 11-year-old son. “Other than
that, it doesn’t affect me at all.”  Sandrin and his wife, Diane, said their three children
weren’t exposed to news about Woods’s off-course issues.
After his first visit to the course two days ago, Sandrin
said he is looking forward to visiting again, even if it’s
only in a video game.  “After walking the course and seeing it, it will now
be a way for me to bond with my children when they play the
game,” he said. “I can tell them I was there and remember
how it was.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Buteau in Augusta,  Georgia , at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Matuszewski in Augusta, Georgia, at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  