-- 
IMF Says Taxes, Fees, Surcharges May Have Place in Reducing Systemic Risks

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-04-06T15:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/imf-says-taxes-fees-surcharges-may-have-place-in-reducing-systemic-risks.html
The  International Monetary Fund  said
regulators need new ways to measure the risk of a financial
shock before they can try to prevent future meltdowns and it
proposed three ways to monitor warning signs of broad-based
problems.  The IMF said international banking standards have improved
when it comes to monitoring individual banks and financial
firms, under the Basel III capital framework. The next challenge
will be developing a way to monitor group risks to head off a
broad financial collapse, the Washington-based lender said in
its Global Financial Stability Report, released today.  The fund recommended that financial authorities consider
how they will monitor and rein in systemic risk, perhaps through
taxes, fees or a capital surcharge. Any of the three methods
could be used to develop regulatory tools, said the report,
which didn’t endorse a single policy path or evaluate which
would be cost-effective to implement.  Systemic  liquidity risk  is “the risk that multiple
institutions may face simultaneous difficulties in rolling over
their short-term debts or in obtaining new short-term funding
through widespread dislocations of money and capital markets,”
the IMF said. “More needs to be done.”  When adding a surcharge or tax on liquidity risk,
regulators should try not to double-charge big banks, said Laura Kodres, chief of the IMF’s global stability analysis division,
at a news conference today. She said banks that raise more
capital, increasing their solvency, probably should see their
liquidity-related requirements decrease accordingly.  Stress Tests  Stress tests are one of the IMF’s three proposed frameworks
for evaluating systemic risk. This method is the most familiar
to regulators and also “the one that is easiest to implement in
the short run,” the IMF said.  Stress tests work by assessing a bank’s vulnerability to an
economic or financial industry shock. The IMF’s method would
also assess the risk of liquidity shortfalls and transmission of
liquidity woes to other firms.  A second framework is a Systemic Liquidity Risk Index that
would attempt to measure the simultaneous tightening of
liquidity and funding conditions in global markets. This
includes looking for “arbitrage violations,” or when financial
conditions appear to be hampering normal market operations.  This index could assess covered interest rate parity in
 currency markets  and swap spreads in interest-rate markets. For
bond markets it could look at the difference between credit
default swaps and the implied credit spreads on cash bonds.  The IMF’s proposal for this index includes 36 metrics in
three securities markets at various maturities. It is
“straightforward to compute” and can be used to monitor
trends.  Systemic Risk  The third proposed framework is a Systemic Risk-Adjusted
Liquidity model. It would use contingent claims analysis to
measure liquidity risk.  This method could look at the probability that an
individual company might experience a liquidity shortfall,
quantify that shortfall, and then look for spillover effects. It
uses Basel III’s proposed “net stable funding ratio” as a
starting point and adds other levels of analysis.  The model “has the advantage of using daily market data
and standard risk-management methods to translate individual
contributions to systemic risk into a macroprudential measure,”
the IMF said. For the model to work, it would be important to
have an accurate measure of liquidity risk as a starting point,
the IMF said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at  rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  