-- 
IMF Urges U.S. to Be Explicit on Housing Finance Guarantee

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-04-06T17:42:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/imf-urges-u-s-to-be-explicit-about-housing-finance-guarantees.html
The U.S. should make explicit its
guarantees of the housing-finance market and bring them fully
onto the government balance sheet, the  International Monetary
Fund  said in a report today.  The Washington-based agency said that “significant
uncertainty and vulnerability” remain in the U.S. mortgage
market, which will require government backing for securitized
mortgages. It also called for the U.S. to press ahead with plans
to phase out Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac , the government-backed
mortgage companies that have been in conservatorship since 2008.  “The challenge will be to strike the right balance between
delivering an appropriate level of government participation and
discouraging another cycle of overinvestment,” the IMF said
today in its Global Financial Stability  Report . The fund
welcomed the Obama administration’s housing-finance plan and
said improvements in the U.S. housing finance system would
bolster global stability.  The U.S. didn’t tackle  tax deductions  for mortgage interest
in its housing plan, which the IMF said was a mistake. The
deduction should be lowered or at least capped, IMF staff
recommended in a press conference today.  “We would like to see it reduced,” said Laura Kodres,
chief of the IMF’s global stability analysis division. She said
any changes would need to be phased in gradually to avoid
penalizing homeowners unfairly.  Housing Market  The U.S. housing market has not fully recovered from the
2008 crisis and will not heal for “at least several more years,
under the best of circumstances,” U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  told a Senate appropriations panel
yesterday.  Purchases of new homes fell in February to the lowest level
on record, Commerce Department said on March 23. Home
construction is also near an all-time low, with builders
recording a 479,000 annual pace last month, almost matching the
record low 477,000 rate of April 2009.  Because of this weakness, the Obama administration has been
loath to close down  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac overnight, even
as it works with Congress on ways to avoid another housing
crisis. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac guarantee more than half of
U.S. mortgages and have so far drawn $154 billion in government
funds to stay afloat.  The IMF said strong house price increases go hand-in-hand
with rapid growth in mortgage credit. Governments can exacerbate
these price swings, such as their role in amplifying mortgage
credit growth in the run-up to the recent crisis.  On a global level, the study said mortgage lenders and
brokers need to improve their risk management and underwriting
standards. These firms should face penalties for poor
underwriting and need “enhanced” supervision, the IMF
recommended.  Useful Tools  Limits on loan-to-value ratios and debt-to-income ratios
could be useful tools for damping credit, if used with caution,
the study said. Regulators need to be sure not push borrowers
into “unregulated sectors” or take steps that would weaken
their economies, the study said.  Emerging-market nations will need to consider the strength
of their legal and financial infrastructures when making housing
finance changes, the study said. It also said covered bonds
could become an “important capital-market complement” as long
as authorities consider the potential effects of such bonds on
 bank failures .  The IMF said the recent crisis has generated interest in
“alternative” mortgage products designed to manage risk. These
include shared-equity models, in which lenders and borrowers
share in rising property values; so-called Islamic mortgages;
and “property derivatives” or other insurance-type contracts
that borrowers and households use to hedge against home price
swings.  Mortgage products should be simplified and homeowners
shouldn’t buy complex products they don’t understand, Kodres
said. She also cautioned of risks posed by loans made in foreign
currencies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at  rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  