-- 
Limitless of Dubai Said to Get Four-Month Extension on $1.2 Billion Loan

-- B y   C a m i l l a   H a l l   a n d   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 
2011-04-06T10:21:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/limitless-of-dubai-said-to-get-four-month-extension-on-1-2-billion-loan.html
Limitless LLC received a fourth
extension on a $1.2 billion loan as the real-estate developer
controlled by state-owned Dubai World works on a restructuring
plan, two bankers familiar with the plan said.  The Islamic syndicated loan has been extended until July 31
from March 31 without a change in the terms, the bankers said,
declining to be identified because the information is private.
The time will allow Limitless to complete a debt restructuring
agreement with creditor banks, one of the bankers said.  “Private discussions are continuing with our lenders,”
Limitless said in an e-mailed response to questions.  The loan, originally maturing in March last year, got two
three-month and one six-month extensions until March this year.  Limitless, whose projects include the mixed-use Downtown
Jebel Ali development in Dubai and another mix-use development
in Riyadh,  Saudi Arabia , raised the syndicated loan in dollars
and  United Arab Emirates  dirhams in 2008 from a group of 18
banks, according to a company statement at that time.  Emirates
NBD PJSC (EMIRATES) , Arab National Bank and  National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC (NBAD) 
helped raise the loan, while  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,
RHB Investment Bank Bhd. were among the lenders.  Dubai World signed a final deal with creditors in March on
altering the terms of about $25 billion of debt, marking the end
of a loan restructuring that roiled global markets in 2009.
Dubai’s property prices slumped, losing more than half their
value from a peak in 2008 after the global financial crisis,
forcing some companies in the emirate to delay repayments.  House prices  in the United Arab Emirates may drop an
additional 25 percent to 30 percent as population growth
stagnates and more properties are put onto the market, according
to a report by Dubai-based Rasmala Investment Bank Ltd. in
March.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Camilla Hall in Dubai at 
 chall24@bloomberg.net ;
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  