-- 
INA Focusing ‘On Business’ Amid Probes, Management Board Chairman Says

-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 
2011-04-06T05:06:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/ina-focusing-on-business-amid-probes-management-board-chairman-says.html
INA Industrija Nafte d.d,  Croatia ’s
largest refiner, will remain “focused on business” amid the
detention of its chief executive officer and a government probe
of share trading, management board Chairman Zoltan Aldott said.  “These circumstances are obviously not good,” Aldott said
in an interview yesterday in Dubrovnik, Croatia. “Our results
are good and we’re investing heavily this year. The business
goes on despite these events.”  Croatian Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor said on April 2 the
prosecutor general is investigating recent trading in INA stock
on the Zagreb Stock Exchange. Kosor said Croatia will await the
results of an investigation before enforcing laws to limit
single holdings in INA at 49 percent, a move that would prevent
 Hungary ’s Mol Nyrt, which controls INA, from gaining a majority.  INA chief Bojan Milkovic, who took over at Ina in June
2009, was detained on March 26 for 30 days on corruption
charges. The state prosecutor said in a statement on its website
he is suspected of taking bribes between 2002 and 2009.  The company has repeatedly said it hopes the allegations
will prove unfounded. Milkovic’s lawyer has also denied any
wrongdoing by the executive.  Mol, Hungary’s largest refiner, said on April 4 it rejects
allegations it secretly purchased shares in INA and tried
to manipulate the market.  Mol holds 47.26 percent of INA, while the Croatian
government owns 44.84 percent. Mol won the controlling rights of
Croatia’s leading refiner in a 2009 partnership agreement with
the government.  Management Unaffected  Aldott said managing the company will not be affected even
if the government caps single holdings at 49 percent.  “INA’s governance model will remain stable within a large
range of shareholders,” Aldott said. “As long as one of the
two major shareholders doesn’t go under 25 percent the
arrangement is stable,” he said, adding he’s eager for trading
to resume in Zagreb.  Croatia’s market regulator on March 28 suspended trading in
INA shares saying it acted “following significant trading by
foreign investors” and to protect INA’s shareholders.  “This is unusually long for a listed company to be out of
the market,” Aldott said.  INA’s share price has jumped 134 percent since Mol’s offer,
closing at 4011 kuna ($771) per share on March 25, before
trading was suspended.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  