-- 
Insurer Volatility, FSB and Shadow-Banks, Google: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-04-06T12:49:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/insurer-volatility-fsb-targets-shadow-banks-rbs-google-compliance.html
European insurers such as  Allianz SE (ALV) 
and  Axa SA (CS)  may face more volatile earnings on proposed changes
to accounting rules, according to KPMG LLP.  To reduce the volatility of their results, “some insurers
may consider changes to their current product offerings, moving
out of longer-term products with embedded guarantees toward
products in which more investment risk is borne by policy
holders,” the consulting company said, citing a survey of
insurers’ finance personnel and chief financial officers.  The  International Accounting Standards Board , the
organization that sets accounting standards outside the U.S.,
and its Norwalk, Connecticut-based equivalent, the Financial
Accounting Standards Board, are working together on a new
standard to account for insurance contracts named IFRS 4. The
London-based IASB aims to complete its draft by June.  Insurers may seek to reduce the expected volatility of
their earnings by “changing their asset mix, entering into new
reinsurance arrangements and engaging into new hedging
strategies,” KPMG said.  Compliance Policy  Financial Stability Board Targets Shadow-Bank Regulations  Global regulators endorsed plans to supervise so-called
shadow banks to stop companies such as  hedge funds  escaping
efforts to prevent another financial crisis.  The  Financial Stability Board  agreed “to develop
recommendations to strengthen the regulation and oversight of
the shadow banking system,” by November, the board said in a
statement after it met yesterday in Rome.  Authorities have warned that shadow banks such as
structured investment vehicles, credit hedge funds and money
market mutual funds, could be used to evade attempts by
regulators to clamp down on excessive risk-taking in the wake of
the crisis. The shadow-banking system had liabilities of about
$16 trillion in the first quarter of 2010, the  Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York said in a  report  last year.  The FSB will “consider initial draft recommendations” in
July, before a final version is presented to the Group of 20
nations in November, the board said.  The FSB was founded in 2009. It replaced the  Financial
Stability Forum , a think tank with no formal role that was
created in 1999 after the Asian financial crisis.  For more, click here.  EU Proposes Mandatory Shareholder Voting on Executive Bonuses  Executives at listed companies may be forced to put their
bonus packages to shareholder votes under measures proposed
yesterday by the European Union.  The  European Commission  plans to toughen management pay
rules, increase the number of female directors and make senior
managers responsible for a company’s risk-management strategy.
It is seeking outside comment on the proposals. Companies have
until July 22 to respond.  Senate Adopts House Offset to Repeal Tax-Compliance Rule  The U.S. Congress voted to repeal a tax-compliance
requirement included in last year’s health-care overhaul and pay
for the change by curbing subsidies for health insurance.  Yesterday’s 87-12 Senate vote on the measure, passed by the
House of Representatives March 3, will send it to President
Barack Obama for his signature. After the vote, White House
spokesman James Carney said the administration is pleased that
Congress moved to repeal the measure.  The administration’s next move remains unclear. The White
House has expressed concern about the way in which the bill
covers $21.9 billion in forgone revenue resulting from the
repeal. Carney hinted at those concerns again yesterday and
didn’t say whether the president would sign the legislation.  The White House didn’t say how it would change the bill.
The statement stopped short of a veto threat, which could be
overridden because both chambers of Congress passed the
legislation with veto-proof majorities.  The 1099 provision of the health-care law, named after a
tax form, would require businesses starting in 2012 to report
more transactions to the  Internal Revenue Service  to prevent
underreporting of income. Repeal of the provision became a top
legislative priority for small-business advocates, including the
 National Federation of Independent Business .  For more, click here.  NY Fed Says Swaps Industry Failed to Meet Clearing Promises  Wall Street’s largest banks and money managers failed to
fulfill commitments made a year ago to enable swaps customers to
use clearinghouses to back trades, New York Federal Reserve Bank
President William Dudley said yesterday in a statement.  The Fed will respond by creating its own group to compel
swaps dealers, hedge funds and clearinghouses to meet regulatory
goals, Dudley said. In order to make “timely and material
progress,” the supervisors will form a working group, he said.  The industry group of banks, including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
and  Barclays Plc (BARC) , and investment firms such as BlueMountain
Capital Management LLC and Pacific Investment Management Co.
said 13 months ago that “substantial work” remained before
credit derivatives dealers and their biggest customers can
regularly move trades into clearinghouses designed to curb risks
to the financial system, according to a statement at the time.  For more, click here.  U.K. Banks May Lose $3 Billion of Revenue, Analysts Say  Britain’s biggest banks, including  Lloyds Banking Group
Plc (LLOY) , may lose a total of about 2 billion pounds ($3.3 billion)
of revenue from proposals to enhance competition for consumer
current accounts, according to analysts at  Societe Generale  SA.  The government-appointed  Independent Commission on Banking 
may make it easier for customers to switch accounts and make
product pricing easier to understand, when it publishes its
interim report on the banking industry on April 11, wrote James
Invine and Philip Richards, London-based analysts at Societe
Generale, in a note to investors today.  The commission, led by Chairman  John Vickers , former chief
economist at the  Bank of England , is examining possible measures
to improve competition and to make the financial system safer in
the event of a banking crisis. It will provide a final report to
Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne in September.  The commission may also recommend operational
subsidiarization, the separation of payment systems and retail
deposits from other banking operations, people familiar with the
situation said last week.  Basel Develops Method to Identify Banks Posing Systemic Risk  International regulators have agreed on a way to identify
banks whose failure would undermine financial stability, said
Stefan Walter, secretary general of the Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision.  The committee has “developed a methodology that embodies
the key components of systemic importance,” Walter said in a
speech published on the committee’s website. The method would
allow a “differentiated treatment of systemic institutions
without needing to specify a fixed list” of lenders.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  Chief Executive Officer Josef Ackermann
last month criticized efforts to force the world’s biggest
lenders to hold extra reserves. The Group of 20 nations has
called for capital surcharges for lenders whose collapse would
imperil the wider financial system.  The Basel committee was asked by the  Financial Stability
Board  to draft the requirements for systemically important
lenders.  Global regulators don’t yet have a list of such banks, FSB
Chairman Mario Draghi said after the board’s meeting in Rome
yesterday. The FSB will follow an “accelerated timetable”
toward agreeing on the rules by a meeting of G-20 leaders in
November, the board said.  For more, click here.  U.K.’s FSA, Treasury Publish Review of Covered Bond Regulation  The U.K.  Treasury  and Financial Services Authority
published a review of the nation’s covered bond regulation,
proposing measures to make sure U.K. securities are “readily
comparable” to those from other countries, the FSA said in a
statement on its website.  The authorities said that, to help the covered  bond market ,
in so-called bail ins, “secured creditors’ rights to collateral
should not be over-ridden.”  Exchanges Revamp U.S. Curbs to Help Prevent Stock Trading Halts  Concern that halting stocks to limit price volatility did
more harm than good spurred the biggest U.S. exchanges to
propose modifying the program.  They backed a plan, known as limit-up/limit down, that
prevents prices from moving beyond specified bands based on a
stock’s average level during the previous five minutes. On Feb.
18, advisers to the Securities and Exchange Commission and the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission recommended adopting the
technique in lieu of immediately halting shares. The SEC
announced the proposal yesterday.  Exchanges implemented single-stock circuit breakers after
the 20-minute rout on May 6 erased $862 billion from the value
of U.S. shares before prices rebounded. For companies already
covered by the circuit breakers adopted last year, trades
wouldn’t be able to occur 5 percent higher or lower than the
average price over the prior five minutes, the SEC said. For all
other securities, the band would be set at 10 percent.  The proposal would affect trading on all exchanges
including those run by NYSE Euronext,  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) ,
Bats Global Markets and Direct Edge Holdings LLC, as well as
private venues such as dark pools and brokerages that execute
orders within their own walls.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  RBS CEO Says U.K. Stake Sale Depends on Regulatory Clarity  The sale of the U.K. government’s majority stake in  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  will depend on how soon regulators,
including the  Independent Commission on Banking , decide on the
future shape of the industry, Chief Executive Officer  Stephen
Hester  said.  Hester, 50, forecast in March that RBS will return to
profit in 2011 after three years of losses. He took over as
chief executive in November 2008 from Fred Goodwin, as the
lender received a 45.5 billion-pound ($74 billion) taxpayer
bailout, the biggest of any bank in the world. Under Hester, RBS
cut about 27,000 jobs and reduced assets by 948 billion pounds.
The Edinburgh-based lender still needs to sell its insurance
operations by 2013 to comply with a European Union state aid
ruling.  In May, Hester described the process of shrinking RBS as
the most complicated restructuring of any company in history.  Hester declined to comment directly on the Independent
Commission on Banking, which is reviewing proposals aimed at
securing the financial system against collapse. The panel will
publish its interim report on April 11.  For more, click here.  Google Said to Be Possible Target of Antitrust Probe by FTC  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s dominance of the Internet-search industry is
being considered for a broad antitrust investigation by the U.S.
Federal Trade Commission, two people familiar with the matter
said.  Before proceeding with any probe, the FTC is awaiting a
decision by the  Justice Department  on whether it will challenge
Google’s planned acquisition of ITA Software Inc. as a threat to
competition in the travel-information search business, said the
people, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the matter
is still confidential.  The FTC and Justice Department share responsibility for
oversight of antitrust enforcement, and the outcome of the ITA
deal may determine whether the two agencies will vie for control
of a broader probe of Google, the people said. The Justice
Department may soon announce its decision on Google’s purchase
of ITA, said the people familiar with the matter.  FTC Commissioner Thomas Rosch said in an interview last
month he supported a probe of the dominant players in the
Internet-search industry, without specifying which companies.
Rosch, one of two Republicans on the five-member commission, is
the only commissioner to say publicly that such an investigation
is in order.  The people familiar with the matter said any investigation
of the search industry should concentrate on Mountain View,
California-based Google.  If consumers don’t like what the company is doing, they can
switch to another search engine, said Adam Kovacevich, a Google
spokesman.  “Since competition is one click away on the Internet, we
work hard to put our users’ interests first and give them the
best, most relevant answers to their queries,” he said in an e-
mail. “We built Google for users, not websites.”  Cecelia Prewett, a spokeswoman at the FTC, and Gina
Talamona, a Justice Department spokeswoman, declined to comment.  For more, click here.  FDIC Levy Means Banks Lose Overnight Arbitrage Profits, FT Says  An insurance charge by the U.S. Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. on banks’ overnight borrowing has ruined a lucrative
arbitrage opportunity, according to traders, the Financial Times
reported.  The charge, introduced on April 1, is based on borrowers’
risk ratings and is about 15 basis points for bigger banks; it’s
part of an effort to rebuild the FDIC’s deposit insurance fund
after the many bank failures since 2007, the newspaper said.  As a consequence of the charge, banks are abandoning trades
in which they borrowed in the overnight Fed funds market and
deposited the cash with the Federal Reserve at an overnight rate
of 25 basis points, the FT said.  That practice may have brought banks risk-free profits of
$200 million since late 2008, the newspaper added.  Interviews/Speeches  EU’s Barnier Says Some Bank Bonuses Inexplicable, Unjustifiable  Michel Barnier , the European Union’s  financial services 
commissioner, said he is ready to press for stricter EU rules on
bank bonuses. He made the remarks to reporters yesterday in
Strasbourg, France.  “We are ready to go further than the current framework,”
Barnier said. “My appeals for moderation haven’t been heeded,”
he said. “There are bonuses that are inexplicable and
unjustifiable.”  Barnier added that he would discuss the possibility of
stricter rules with EU finance ministers in the coming months. A
proposal from the  European Commission , the EU’s executive arm,
may then follow, he said.  Scotiabank CEO Warns Against ‘Overly Prescriptive’ Regulation  Financial reforms including ones proposed by the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision may work against countries such
as Canada,  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  Chief Executive Officer Richard
Waugh said.  The remarks were part of the text of a speech he was to
deliver yesterday at the bank’s 179th annual meeting of
shareholders in Halifax, Nova Scotia.  Waugh, head of Canada’s third-largest bank, said many
industry reforms are reacting to previous crises rather than
preventing new ones. Instead, he recommended banks adopt a “low
to moderate risk appetite” while keeping sustainable profit
levels.  Canada’s banks didn’t require government bailouts during
the financial crisis and have been ranked the world’s soundest
for three years by the Geneva-based World Economic Forum.  Fed’s Kocherlakota Calls for Less Government Role in Mortgages  Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis President Narayana
Kocherlakota said the U.S. government should reduce its role in
housing finance and consider ways to help people build equity in
their homes.  “Heavy reliance on government guarantees is not a sound
long-term strategy,” Kocherlakota said yesterday in remarks
prepared for a mortgage conference at the Minneapolis Fed.  “Our country needs a mortgage market that returns to
greater reliance on private risk-taking and private risk
assessment, along with the enhanced regulatory oversight that is
already in place,” he said.  The House of Representatives is considering legislation
that would reduce the dominance of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mae in
U.S. mortgage finance. Legislation from House Republicans would
wind down the companies completely over five years.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 