-- 
Italy's Intesa Sanpaolo Approves Capital Increase of Up to $7 Billion

-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 
2011-04-06T12:04:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/intesa-sanpaolo-approves-rights-offer-plan-to-raise-as-much-as-7-billion.html
Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ,  Italy ’s second-
biggest bank, plans to raise as much as 5 billion euros ($7.1
billion) by selling new shares to boost capital.  Intesa will sell common stock to owners of common and
savings shares at a nominal value of 0.52 euros apiece, the
Milan-based lender said in a statement today. The bank’s boards,
which approved the capital plan yesterday, expect to complete
the sale by July.  “It’s the right time for a share sale,” Fabrizio Spagna,
chairman of Axia Financial Research, said in a phone interview.
“It will consolidate Intesa’s capital position at a higher
level to comply with Basel III requirements.”  Italian lenders are boosting capital reserves before the
implementation of new rules requested by central bankers to
avert a repeat of the financial crisis. Intesa’s proposed share
sale follows capital-raising plans by  Banco Popolare SC (BP)  and
Unione di Banche Italiane SCPA.  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena
SpA (BMPS)  may call a board meeting next week to approve a 2 billion-
euro rights offer, two people familiar with the situation said
yesterday.  “Intesa’s decision to raise capital arose to fully comply
with what is believed will become the ‘new normal’ for Basel
III,” Chief Executive Officer  Corrado Passera  said during an
analysts presentation today.  Shares Climb  Intesa rallied as much as 6.5 percent today in Milan and
were up 4.5 percent at 2.22 euros as of 1:30 p.m. local time,
for a market value of about 28.1 billion euros.  The stock sale is part of Intesa’s new business plan, which
targets net income of 4.2 billion euros by 2013 and 5.6 billion
euros in 2015. The bank posted pro-forma net income of 2.7
billion euros in 2010. Intesa also aims to cut costs and
increase productivity.  “Consensus is already ahead of 2013 guidance,” wrote
analysts at Hammer Partners in a note to clients today.  Banca IMI, a unit of Intesa, and Bank of America Corp.
Merrill Lynch are acting as global coordinators and joint
bookrunners along with Credit Suisse Group AG, Deutsche Bank AG,
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Morgan Stanley.  Intesa's main banking foundations will subscribe to their
rights in the stock sale, Giuseppe Guzzetti, chairman of 
Fondazione Cariplo, told reporters in  Rome .  Intesa’s core Tier 1 ratio, a measure of financial
strength, will increase by about 150 basis points after the
sale. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point. The common equity
ratio is estimated at 10 percent by 2011, and earnings not
required to meet this goal will be distributed as dividends,
Intesa said. The bank targets payouts to investors of 13.5
billion euros by 2015.  ‘Likely to Outperform’  “In our view, Intesa is likely to outperform banks which
could be next in pipeline to raise capital for systemic
reasons,” Carlo Tommaselli, an analyst at Societe Generale SA
who has a “hold” recommendation on the stock, wrote in a note
today. Intesa’s sale “will likely create a domino effect
involving other banks in Italy and  Europe ,” he said.  New rules drawn up by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  and endorsed by Group of 20 leaders last year will
require lenders to more than triple the highest-quality capital
they hold to cushion against losses by 2019.  Intesa’s fourth-quarter profit declined 7 percent to 505
million euros on lower income from lending, while its core Tier
1 ratio stood at 7.9 percent.  A plan to list Banca Fideuram is still in place, Passera
said, adding that the bank aims to sell shares of the asset
management unit in the “short term,” depending on market
conditions. Intesa may consider growth opportunities in  Poland ,
the  Czech Republic  and  Turkey , as well as countries in the
Middle East and northern  Africa , financing possible purchases
through disposals and listings, Passera told analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  