-- 
IRS Commissioner Seeks Changes in Annual Tax Filing Process

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-04-06T19:07:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/irs-commissioner-calls-for-real-time-filing-system-that-would-cut-audits.html
U.S. Internal Revenue Service
Commissioner Douglas Shulman outlined a “vision for a more
real-time tax system” that would reduce the need for audits
after returns are filed.  Shulman said the IRS should receive all paperwork such as
W-2 and 1099 forms before individuals file their returns. That
would allow the agency to flag potential problems before it
processes tax returns, instead of sending out refund checks and
then starting audits.  “This would not only change the face of taxpayer service
but also compliance,” he said in a speech today at the  National
Press Club  in Washington. “Unlike today’s look-back model, we
would do a 180-degree turn, and most basic compliance activities
would be done up-front, and we would reject a return right away
if a problem was detected.”  Shulman said implementing such changes would require new
investments in technology and would require payroll processors
and businesses to alter their annual tax-filing calendars. That
could include accelerating the Feb. 28 deadline for Form 1099,
which is used for independent contractors, he said.  Under this plan, Shulman said, taxpayers could have a
better working relationship with the IRS.  ‘Significant Gains’  “The payoffs are huge,” he said. “Taxpayers avoid the
hassle factor, and back-end audits are much more focused on
issues that require real follow-up. We would see significant
gains in both service and compliance that actually have the
potential to save billions of dollars across the public and
private sectors in reduced administrative burden.”  He said there would be fewer cases in which auditors would
seek to reclaim refunds from prior years, after taxpayers have
spent the money and forgotten the precise details of their tax
returns.  The changes Shulman outlined would mark major shifts for
businesses and taxpayers, and would take years to implement,
said Edward Karl, vice president for taxation at the American
Institute of Certified Public Accountants in  Washington .  “The issue is: Do the preparers of the 1099 have accurate
and complete information to be able to do it?” he asked.  He also said that allowing taxpayers to know what
information the IRS has about them would also serve to show what
the agency doesn’t have. That could discourage taxpayers from
reporting other income.  “This could be a problem with voluntary compliance,” Karl
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  