-- 
Israeli Executives Offer Peace Plan With Jerusalem as a Two-State Capital

-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 
2011-04-06T14:11:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/israeli-executives-offer-peace-plan-with-jerusalem-as-a-two-state-capital.html
Israeli business executives and
public figures, including the former heads of the Shin Bet and
Mossad intelligence agencies, proposed a regional peace plan,
saying it was critical that the government revive negotiations.  The proposal calls for the establishment of a Palestinian
state in the West Bank and  Gaza Strip  and outlines a framework
for  Jerusalem  that would allow the city to be a capital for both
Palestinians and Israelis. It includes a plan for peace
agreements with Syria and Lebanon.  Israel  “no longer has the privilege of sitting around
doing nothing,” Jacob Perry, a former director of the Shin Bet
internal security service said at a press conference in  Tel Aviv 
today. “The government of Israel and its leader must take the
initiative.”  Palestinian officials have said they are preparing to seek
recognition of statehood from the  United Nations General
Assembly  in September, regardless of whether peace talks are
moving forward. The proposal also comes as a wave of pro-
democracy movements sweep through the Arab world, which has
already led to the toppling of Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak ,
who often mediated between Israel and the Palestinians.  “Ongoing silence is exacting a diplomatic price from
Israel that it can’t continue to pay,” said Jonathan Spyer, a
political scientist at the Interdisciplinary Center Herzliya,
Israel. “This initiative is the opening move of a campaign of
public pressure to put Netanyahu on the spot to get a proposal
of his own on the table.”  Increased Urgency  U.S. President  Barack Obama  said yesterday that Mideast
turmoil increases the urgency for a peace agreement between
Israel and the Palestinians.  Israeli-Palestinian peace talks fell apart within a month
of starting last year. Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  said he wouldn’t continue the U.S.-brokered negotiations
unless Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu extended a 10-
month freeze on settlement construction, a condition the Israeli
leader rejected.  Netanyahu’s spokesman,  Mark Regev , declined to comment on
today’s plan. Members of the group said Netanyahu, who has said
that Palestinian statehood should only come through a negotiated
peace agreement, has received a copy of the initiative.  “This is the kind of program that Netanyahu is extremely
unlikely to accept,” Spyer said. “It is impossible that he
would accept anything like this prior to negotiations.”  Not Official  Palestinian negotiator Mohammed Shtayyeh said that while
every peace initiative should be encouraged, this one wasn’t
official.  “This comes at a time when the Israeli government has no
initiative whatsoever,” Shtayyeh said in a telephone interview.
“The Israelis must sign on to this initiative.”  The Israel-Peace Initiative, as the plan is called, is
being promoted by Perry; former Mossad Chief Danny Yatom;
retired Lieutenant-General Amnon Lipkin-Shahak, the former
military chief of staff; and Idan Ofer, a shareholder and former
chairman of Israel Corp., a holding company with interests in
shipping, chemicals and charging stations for electric cars.  The plan calls for Israel to accept as a framework for
starting negotiations the 2002 Arab initiative that proposed
peace between Israel and Arab countries once Israel withdraws
from the land captured in the 1967 Middle East war. Those
territories include the  Golan Heights  and the  West Bank .  Ofer said that in business dealings abroad “it was made
clear to me more than once that if the situation here does not
improve, Israeli companies that employ thousands of people will
be hurt.”  Netanyahu leaves today for Berlin, where he will meet with
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  to discuss efforts to revive
peace talks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Tel Aviv at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
barden@bloomberg. 