-- 
Hitachi’s Profit Will Deteriorate on Japan Quake, President Nakanishi Says

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   M a k i   S h i r a k i
-- 
2011-04-06T10:04:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/hitachi-to-review-nuclear-business-says-earnings-will-be-hurt.html
Hitachi Ltd. (6501) , one of the three main
manufacturers of nuclear reactors at Fukushima Dai-Ichi, said
profit will likely deteriorate after Japan’s record earthquake
damaged company plants and choked supply of power and parts.  “I apologize for not being able to give a specific figure
on earnings,” President Hiroaki Nakanishi told reporters in
Tokyo today. The company may spend more than six months to
calculate damages and intends to review plans for its nuclear
power business, he said.  Japan’s record earthquake and tsunami on March 11 led to
blasts and radiation leaks at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant. Hitachi, which built reactor
No. 4 on the Fukushima site, has lost 18 percent of market value
since the quake.  Japan ’s third-biggest company by revenue
suspended six plants in northern Japan following the disaster.  Hitachi raised its annual profit forecast by 15 percent in
February citing cost reductions at its home appliances and
infrastructure businesses. Net income may total 230 billion yen
($2.7 billion) in the year to March 2011, compared with a loss
of 107 billion yen in the previous year, Hitachi said Feb. 3.  “Naturally, we’ll have to review our business plan though
we won’t get our hands off from the nuclear power business,” he
said. The executive declined to elaborate whether the company’s
mid-term business targets will be lowered or delayed.  Power Systems  Hitachi, Japan’s second-largest builder of nuclear
reactors, aims to generate 380 billion yen in revenue from
nuclear-plant operations in the year ending March 2021, almost
double of 210 billion yen in the year ended March 2010, the
company said in June. Hitachi plans to win at least 38 new
contracts by 2030 and a third of global market share, it said at
the time.  Nuclear-related operations made up 2.3 percent of Hitachi’s
revenue in the year ended March 2010.  The Power Systems Group, handling thermal, nuclear and
alternative power businesses, is targeting 1.2 trillion yen in
revenue in the year to March 2016, compared with 882.1 billion
yen in sales earned in the year ended March 2010.  Japan’s third-biggest company by revenue expanded its
reactor business in 2007 when the company and  General Electric
Co. (GE)  combined their nuclear-plant businesses into two ventures in
the U.S. and Japan to compete with Toshiba Corp. and  France ’s
Areva SA. GE would receive a net payment of “several hundred
million” dollars, the Fairfield, Connecticut-based company said
at the time.  Sacrifice  Hitachi isn’t legally obliged to pay compensation to
evacuees from the areas around the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant,
said Nakanishi. “Still, we should make as much sacrifice as
possible to bring back safety. Right now, we are spending a
significant amount of resources to settle the case,” he said.  The Fukushima plant, built four decades ago when Japan’s
first wave of nuclear construction began, had its power and
back-up generators knocked out by the tsunami that followed the
magnitude-9 earthquake. A lack of power to cool the reactor led
to explosions and radiation leaks and forced the evacuation of
more than 177,000 residents within 20 kilometers of the site.  “It surely has become harder to get the backing of
residents to build a nuclear plant,” Nakanishi said. “Still,
it’s not possible for Japan to totally eliminate the usage of
nuclear power.”  Hitachi owns 80 percent of a Japan-based joint nuclear
sales venture with GE and GE owns 60 percent of a U.S.-based
joint venture, which operates the business outside of Japan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in  Tokyo  at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Maki Shiraki in Tokyo at 
 mshiraki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  