-- 
Ivory Coast Bonds Advance to 4-Month High as Gbagbo Mulls Leaving Country

-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-04-06T12:18:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/ivory-coast-s-defaulted-bonds-rise-as-gbagbo-accepts-cease-fire.html
Ivory Coast ’s defaulted dollar bonds
rose to a four-month high as  Laurent Gbagbo  said he may leave
the country after troops loyal to internationally recognized
president-elect  Alassane Ouattara  surrounded his residence.  The West African nation’s 2032 bonds issued a year ago
jumped 7.7 percent to 55.438 cents on the dollar, the highest
since Dec. 2, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The debt
has rallied 14 percent in the past two days after Gbagbo troops
surrendered. Fighting was reported around his residence today.  The incumbent, whose refusal to accept the results of the
country’s Nov. 28 elections led to war, may leave Ivory Coast,
he said in an interview conducted last night and broadcast today
on LCI, a Paris-based TV news channel. No political agreement
has been reached with Ouattara, he said.  “Gbagbo’s exit looms, and I would say it’s now a matter of
hours or at most a couple of days,” Anne Fruhauf, Africa
analyst for Eurasia Group in  London , said in a telephone
interview. His departure would not immediately restore order in
Abidjan, the commercial hub, which is a city “awash with arms,
militias, a panicked civilian population and rebel forces that
really need to exercise restraint,” she said.  Default  The country’s $2.3 billion of bonds have lost 9 percent of
their value since April, after falling as much as 43 percent to
35 cents on March 16. The country was declared in default after
missing a $29 million interest payment due the end of January as
Gbagbo and Ouattara were locked in a political standoff.  The UN put the death toll from post-election violence at
494 before the fight for Abidjan began. At least 800 more were
also killed in the western town of Duekoue, according to the
International Committee of the Red Cross.  Gbagbo began negotiating an exit after French and  United
Nations  forces destroyed most of his army’s heavy weapons.  The United Nations, the U.S., the  African Union  and the
European Union recognize Ouattara, 69, a former deputy managing
director at the  International Monetary Fund , as the winner of
the Nov. 28 election. Gbagbo, 65, refuses to step down, alleging
voter fraud.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  