-- 
LeBron James Gets Liverpool Stake; Fenway Sports Becomes Marketing Manager

-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 
2011-04-07T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/james-takes-stake-in-liverpool-fenway-sports-becomes-manager.html
LeBron James  is joining the group
that owns soccer’s Liverpool Football Club and baseball’s  Boston
Red Sox , adding a marquee athlete to two of the biggest brands
in sports.  Under terms of the agreement between LRMR, James’s
marketing company, and  Fenway Sports Group , which is owned by
John Henry, a commodities hedge-fund billionaire, FSG becomes
the exclusive representative for the two-time National
Basketball Association Most Valuable Player. James of the Miami
Heat gets an undisclosed minority stake in Liverpool, an 18-time
English champion.  The union of James and Fenway Sports Group, which also owns
80 percent of New England Sports Network and half of Nascar’s
Roush Fenway Racing, will help each to extend its brand
globally, Paul Swangard, managing director of the University of
Oregon’s sports marketing center, said in a telephone interview.  “It’s an interesting marriage of two brands with global
ambition,” Swangard said. “For Fenway, it continues to
diversify the notion of not just being about the stadium they’re
named for. They’re now into soccer, leveraging into
basketball.”  The statement announcing the affiliation between James, who
consults with Berkshire Hathaway Inc. Chairman  Warren Buffett ,
and FSG didn’t mention the basketball player getting ownership
stakes in any other Fenway properties.  ‘Powerful Presence’  “LeBron and Liverpool each has a powerful presence
internationally, with particular strength in  Asia .” Tom Werner,
an owner in Fenway Sports Group, said in a statement. “We feel
the business opportunities for both working and being identified
together in emerging international markets will result in
unforeseen opportunities that neither would have been able to
realize alone.”  The NBA announced this week that for the first time replica
player jerseys would be available in  India  at  Adidas AG (ADS)  stores.
James and Kobe Bryant of the Los Angeles Lakers are among the
four being sold in the 1.2 billion population nation. Last year,
James had the second-best-selling NBA jersey in the U.S.,  China 
and  Europe  behind Bryant, 32, who has won five championships.
James, 26, has yet to win a title.  Billionaire Ambitions  A  Nike Inc. (NKE)  endorser, James has said he wants to become the
first athlete billionaire. He has a six-year, $110 million
contract with the Heat, who during the offseason added James and
All-Star Chris Bosh to a roster that already included Dwyane Wade.  Maverick Carter, chief executive of LRMR and a high-school
teammate of James’s in Akron, Ohio, said in a telephone
interview he met with several athlete representation firms
before he was directed to FSG by Paul Wachter, a Time Warner
Inc. executive who advised Henry and Werner on their purchase of
the  Red Sox .  “They are owners of some of the biggest clubs and sports
brands in the world,” said Carter, who had met Henry and Werner
at a Berkshire Hathaway function. “They own them. They don’t
just represent them.”  FSG and James are already at work, Carter said. James in
the next few days will announce an affiliation with a luxury
fashion brand. In addition, the player in the next few weeks
will reveal an “innovative venture.” Carter declined to give
details on either initiative.  ‘The Decision’  James announced on national television in July that he was
leaving the  Cleveland Cavaliers  for the Heat. NBA Commissioner
David Stern was among those criticizing him for doing it on a TV
special, even though “The Decision” show was ESPN’s highest-
rated non-National Football League program of 2010.  The agreement with Fenway may pose one conflict for James,
who is a fan of the  New York Yankees . James wore a Yankees cap
to a playoff game between the Cleveland Indians and the Yankees,
and even endorsed a Nike basketball shoe in Yankee pinstripes.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  