-- 
Union-Busting Payback Comes Four Years Early: Margaret Carlson

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 
2011-04-06T23:00:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/janitor-justice-arrives-four-years-early-commentary-by-margaret-carlson.html
“It isn’t fair!” is a cry we try
in kindergarten and never give up. To tamp down this thirst for
instant justice, the nuns at my school invoked the sweet
hereafter, where all wrongs would be righted, as a reason for us
to suck it up at recess.  As an adult, and a lucky one, the last thing I want now is
fairness. I could be waiting on tables instead of being served
at them, delivering the papers instead of writing for them.  In that, I’m like Wisconsin’s Republican governor,  Scott Walker . He didn’t want fairness to kick in after he assumed
power in January and used the rubric of “budget repair” to
bully the folks who clean his office and guard his prisoners.  The sweet hereafter made an early appearance in Wisconsin
on Tuesday. A Democrat, Chris Abele, cruised to victory in the
race to fill Walker’s former post, Milwaukee County executive.
And state Supreme Court Justice David Prosser, part of a 4-3
conservative majority seen as likely to support Walker’s assault
on unions, ended up in a too-close-to-call election that may
result in a recount. Just six weeks ago, Prosser was expected to
coast to victory over JoAnne Kloppenburg, an assistant attorney
general. Only five incumbent Supreme Court judges have been
defeated since 1852.  Ordinarily it takes four years to right an electoral wrong.
Not this time. Liberal and conservative groups descended on
 Wisconsin  to turn what would normally be a ho-hum election into
a referendum on Walker. Former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin
weighed in for Prosser via Twitter. Money poured in like it was
the 1990s. The Brennan Center for Justice at  New York University 
estimated that outside groups spent more than $3.5 million, with
the liberal Greater Wisconsin Committee spending almost $1.4
million and four conservative interest groups collectively
spending almost $2.2 million.  Tax Cut   In the driver’s seat for two months, Walker rammed through
a tax cut for business, then used the deficit he’d just
increased as justification for going after the pay and benefits
of state employees.  Initially he had widespread support in a depressed state.
The many who had lost their jobs in private industry resented
public workers who seemed to be living so high off the hog.  But after public employees quickly accepted what amounted
to an 8 percent pay cut, and Walker proceeded to strip most of
their collective bargaining rights anyway, sentiment shifted.
Tens of thousands of people demonstrated at the Capitol. Polls
showed the public didn’t want Walker to go that far. He did
anyway.  Candidates as Proxies  The two candidates for the state  Supreme Court , running
without party affiliations, were proxies in a war not of their
choosing. They did provide fodder to the two opposing forces.
Prosser, the incumbent, was joined to the hip of Walker, a
reliable ally when Prosser was Republican speaker of the state
Assembly. Prosser had to apologize when it  came out  that, during
a heated debate behind closed doors last year, he hurled an
epithet at Chief Justice Shirley Abrahamson.  All that money sloshing around produced some effective, if
not wholly accurate, negative ads.  One claimed that Prosser, as a county district attorney in
1978, didn’t adequately investigate or file charges against a
Green Bay priest accused of abusing two boys but instead told
the bishop, who eventually moved the priest to another parish.
Politifact.com labeled the ad “barely true” for overstating
what information Prosser had before him in 1978.  ‘Ridiculously False’  Kloppenburg came in second, behind Prosser, in the February
primary, earning a spot in the runoff. She was criticized as too
small for such a big job, having largely handled inconsequential
state regulatory matters.  According to one ad, “Kloppenburg is so extreme, she even
put an 80-year-old farmer in jail for refusing to plant native
vegetation on his farm.” Politifact.com  called that 
“ridiculously false,” since a judge, not Kloppenburg, put the
farmer in jail, for contempt of court, and Kloppenburg didn’t
even ask for that punishment.  Late in the race, Kloppenburg  got a break  when former
Democratic Governor Patrick Lucey quit as honorary co-chairman
of Prosser’s campaign to support her.  Regardless of the eventual outcome, Kloppenburg’s out-of-
nowhere showing is a cautionary tale for those governors
following in Walker’s path by curtailing workers’ bargaining
rights, and for the Tea Party, which you’d think would be
fighting for the little guy, not the big bully.  Next Steps  If Kloppenburg does prevail, the challenge will be for the
unions not to go too far in their triumph. Some of their work
rules really are ridiculous. Just as it was ugly for Walker to
exempt from his bill some of those unions that had contributed
to him, it’s unseemly when a union sits across the table from a
governor it helped usher into office.  If only those in power could remember that you can do
almost anything as long as you are perceived by the public as
fair. Need to balance out-of-control budgets? Spread out the
hurt, and let everyone who works have a decent life. Don’t lean
so heavily in favor of the haves, who, after all, have the
world, the  tax code  and the marketplace leaning heavily in their
favor already.  The nuns were right on just about everything, except the
part about waiting for justice. It’s much better when it’s
delivered in the here and now.  ( Margaret Carlson , author of “Anyone Can Grow Up: How
 George Bush  and I Made It to the White House” and former White
House correspondent for Time magazine, is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Margaret Carlson in Washington at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  