-- 
Japan Bond Futures Fall to Five-Week Low on View U.S. Job Market Improving

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 
2011-04-07T07:04:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/japan-s-bonds-may-fall-as-yen-s-slide-stock-gains-damp-demand-for-safety.html
Japanese bond futures dropped to a
five-week low before a report that economists said will show
fewer Americans filed for jobless claims, adding to signs the
U.S. labor market is improving.  Ten-year bonds declined for a second day after Treasuries
fell yesterday as speculation global growth is gathering
momentum reduced demand for the safety of government debt.
Losses in bonds were tempered after the Bank of  Japan  kept
 interest rates  near zero and said it would offer 1 trillion yen
($11.7 billion) in one-year loans to businesses hurt by the
nation’s record earthquake.  “Bonds are extending a loss following yield gains
overseas,” said  Akihiko Inoue , chief market analyst in Tokyo at
Mizuho Investors Securities Co., a unit of the nation’s second-
largest bank. “The global economy outside Japan seems to be
good.”  Ten-year bond futures for June delivery dropped 0.26 to
138.72 at the 3 p.m. local close of trading on the Tokyo Stock
Exchange, after sliding to 138.65, the lowest since March 10.  The yield on the 1.3 percent bond due March 2021 rose 1.5
basis points to 1.31 percent as of 3:49 p.m. in  Tokyo  at Japan
Bond Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker.
The price dropped 0.132 yen to 99.912 yen.  Bonds started the day weaker after Treasury 10-year yields
climbed seven basis points yesterday to 3.55 percent. U.S. notes
were little changed today.  The number of U.S. workers filing first-time claims for
jobless benefits declined by 3,000 to 385,000 last week,
according to a Bloomberg News survey before today’s Labor
Department report.  BOJ Meeting  Losses in bonds were limited as the BOJ downgraded its
economic assessment for the first time since October. The
central bank held its benchmark overnight rate at a range of
zero to 0.1 percent and kept unchanged its credit program and an
asset-purchase fund that represent the BOJ’s main policy tools.  The quake-aid lending program “represents the BOJ’s
efforts to support commercial lenders who have been suffering in
the disaster-hit areas,” said  Takeshi Minami , chief economist
at Norinchukin Research Institute Co. in Tokyo. “The new scheme
will contribute to stabilizing financial markets.”  Japan’s economy is under “strong downward pressure” after
the March 11 earthquake damaged production facilities and
weakened the financial positions of companies, particularly
small enterprises, the central bank said in its statement at the
end of a two-day meeting. Pressure will persist “for the time
being” before the economy recovers, it said.  “The bias continues to be for the BOJ to do some kind of
additional easing,”  Akito Fukunaga , chief rates strategist at
the brokerage unit of Royal Bank of Scotland Plc in Tokyo, wrote
in a research note. “Short- and medium-term yields will remain
in a downtrend and long-term yields will struggle to rise.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 