-- 
Japan Ready to Host Sports Events After Earthquake, Olympic Official Says

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-04-06T19:03:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/japan-ready-to-host-sports-events-after-earthquake-olympic-official-says.html
Japan  is ready to stage sports
events again to boost morale following last month’s earthquake,
the vice president of the  Japanese Olympic Committee  said.  “We need to be hosting a major international event to
inspire the whole nation, to encourage the youth of Japan to
move forward and to aspire to be champions,” Masato Mizuno said
in an interview with a small group of reporters at the Sport
Accord conference in London today.  “We face a new challenge,” said Mizuno, who is also a
member of the sport and environment commission of the
 International Olympic Committee . “It’s the impression that the
whole of Japan has been paralyzed by this quake. But  Tokyo  is
much safer than people think.”  The number of dead and missing following the magnitude-9
earthquake which struck on March 11 and the tsunami that
followed was at 27,631 as of 8 p.m. local time yesterday,
according to the  National Police Agency .  Accumulation of hydrogen in the days after the earthquake
triggered three blasts at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi atomic power
complex, located 135 miles (217 kilometers) from Tokyo.  The  International Skating Union  canceled the world figure
skating championships scheduled for Tokyo the week after the
quake, and later moved the event to Moscow. Japanese soccer’s J-
League has suspended its season until April 23 to save
electricity.  Radiation Fear  U.S. Open  and Australian Open tennis champion  Kim Clijsters 
said last month that she wouldn’t play in Tokyo in September
because of fears about radiation.  “The earthquake was a really, really shocking event,”
Mizuno said. “There has been incredible compassion and an
international show of support. Now we need to show a signal to
the world that Japan is ready to host international sports
events.”  IOC President Jacques Rogge will visit the country in July
for the Japanese Olympic Committee’s centenary celebration,
Mizuno said. He added a decision on whether Tokyo or Hiroshima
may bid to host the 2020 Olympics will be made after this
month’s mayoral elections in Japan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in  London  at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  