-- 
Asian Stocks Pare Advance on Bank of Japan's 1 Trillion Yen Quake Package

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 
2011-04-07T10:39:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/japan-australian-stock-futures-rise-as-yen-falls-metals-prices-increase.html
Asian stocks pared their advance
after the Bank of  Japan  offered 1 trillion yen ($12 billion) in
one-year loans for businesses hurt by the nation’s record
earthquake, with officials seeing the disaster putting pressure
on the economy.  Nintendo Co., the maker of Wii game consoles, declined 2.9
percent. Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s biggest maker of
televisions and flat screens, slipped 1.5 percent after
reporting first-quarter operating profit fell 34 percent. China
Vanke Co., the nation’s biggest developer, increased 2.4 percent
in Shenzhen after reporting higher sales in March.  Dart Energy
Ltd. (DTE) , a gas explorer, gained 1.7 percent in Sydney after
announcing a “significant resource” at its projects.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 0.3 percent to 135.43 as
of 7:36 p.m. in  Tokyo , paring an advance of as much as 0.5
percent earlier. About the same number of stocks advanced as
fell in the index.  “Post the earthquake, its challenging to be bullish on
Japan,” said Andrew Pease, Sydney-based senior investment
strategist for the Asia-Pacific region at Russell Investment
Group. “Even though the market has rebounded, we don’t know
what’s the underlying damage to corporate earnings has been. The
rebuilding will provide some upside for Japan.”  Nikkei 225 Average  The Asia-Pacific gauge rose for the past two weeks as
Japanese companies began resuming production after the nation’s
worst earthquake on record last month and as Chinese firms
posted profits that beat analyst estimates.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average gained 0.1 percent, having
advanced as much as 1.1 percent before the Bank of Japan
statement was released.  The BOJ unveiled the earthquake lending facility as board
members downgraded their economic assessment for the first time
since October. The bank held the benchmark overnight rate at a
range of zero to 0.1 percent and kept unchanged its credit
program and an asset-purchase fund that represent the BOJ’s main
policy tools.  “Investors are feeling cautious, as real issues such as
the chaos surrounding distribution and materials procurement and
self-restraint by corporations and individuals is spreading,
limiting gains in stocks,” said  Masaru Hamasaki , who helps
oversee about $17 billion as chief strategist at Toyota Asset
Management Co. in Tokyo. “Its possible that some investors, who
expected an increase in the framework of the asset purchase
program, or additions to quantitative easing, are selling stocks
after seeing the  Bank of Japan  policies maintained.”  Australia Jobs Report  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index lost 0.1, even as a report
showed Australian employers added more workers than economists
forecast in March.  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index was little
changed, while China’s Shanghai Composite Index gained 0.2
percent. Taiwan’s Taiex Index climbed 0.6 percent.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed today. The index rose 0.2 percent yesterday as Cisco
Systems Inc. spurred a technology rally and plans by European
lenders to raise capital boosted financial shares.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
signaled on March 3 that policy makers may raise the benchmark
rate at their next meeting to curb inflation, which reached a
two-year high of 2.6 percent last month.  In  Australia , employers added 37,800 workers in March from
the previous month, the statistics bureau said in Sydney today.
That compares with the median estimate for a 24,000 increase in
a Bloomberg News survey of 25 economists. The jobless rate was
4.9 percent.  Tech Stocks Fall  A gauge of information technology companies posted the only
decline among the 10 industry groups in the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index.  Nintendo declined 2.9 percent to 21,020 yen in Tokyo.
Pioneer slumped 5 percent to 325 yen after Barclays Plc cut its
rating to “equal-weight” from “overweight.”  Samsung Electronics slipped 1.5 percent to 909,000 won in
 Seoul . The company’s first-quarter operating profit dropped 34
percent to 2.9 trillion won ($2.66 billion) from a year earlier
after weakening consumer demand pushed down prices of
televisions and liquid-crystal displays.  Among stocks that advanced,  China  Vanke climbed 2.4 percent
to 9.15 yuan in Shenzhen. The company said contracted sales rose
48 percent in March to 9.3 billion yuan ($1.4 billion) from a
year earlier, and more than doubled to 35.5 billion yuan in the
first quarter.  Dart Energy Gains  Dart Energy increased 1.7 percent to 91 Australian cents in
Sydney. The company said in a statement that independent
assessments show a “significant resource” for its Australian
portfolio of coal-bed methane licenses.  Changsha Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science and Technology
Development Co., a machinery maker, surged 7.2 percent to
HK$22.40 in Hong Kong, a record close. The company said first-
quarter net income may increase 130 percent to 170 percent to
between 1.7 billion yuan and 2 billion yuan.  Anhui Conch Cement Co., China’s biggest cement producer,
jumped 6 percent to HK$51.80. Macquarie Group Ltd. boosted its
stock rating to “outperform” from “neutral,” citing the
company’s “strong” 2010 earnings and “positive” profit
forecast for the first quarter. The company said yesterday that
profit for the first three months may have gained more than 150
percent.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 1.9 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with gains of 6.2 percent by the  S&P
500  and 2.1 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks in the
Asian benchmark are valued at 13.1 times estimated earnings on
average, compared with 13.7 times for the S&P 500 and 11.3 times
for the Stoxx 600.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in  Singapore  at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .;
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 