-- 
Japanese Golfers at Masters Aim to Lift Spirits in Quake-Stricken Homeland

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-04-06T16:15:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/japanese-golfers-at-masters-aim-to-lift-spirits-in-quake-stricken-homeland.html
Hideki Matsuyama of  Japan  said he
struggled with whether to give up his boyhood dream of playing
golf’s Masters Tournament after the earthquake and tsunami that
devastated his home country last month.  Matsuyama, the 2010 Asian Amateur champion, said he
ultimately decided to come to the year’s first major
championship at Augusta National Golf Club in Augusta, Georgia,
after being encouraged by friends and family. The tournament
starts tomorrow.  “The Masters, which has been my dream, is their dream as
well,” Matsuyama, one of four Japanese golfers in the
tournament field, told reporters through an interpreter on April
4. “Doing my best here is my obligation for them.”  Matsuyama, 19, was training in  Australia  when the
magnitude-9 earthquake struck on March 11, leaving more than
27,000 people dead or missing, according to Japan’s  National
Police Agency . The quake also caused as much as 25 trillion yen
($299 billion) in damage to the world’s third-largest economy.  A freshman at Tohoku Fukushi University in Sendai,
Matsuyama returned to Japan and found his dorm room in shambles.
Almost half of the dead or missing are from Miyagi prefecture,
of which Sendai is the capital. Matsuyama struggled to find
something to eat and called the scene “indescribable” and
“beyond imagination.”  Matsuyama will become the first Japanese amateur to play in
the Masters when he tees off tomorrow with 2008 champion Trevor Immelman of  South Africa  and 2009 U.S. Open winner Lucas Glover.
Matsuyama said he hopes to play well in Augusta to help lift
spirits back home.  ‘Encouragement’  “I would like to do my best to provide the Japanese people
encouragement,” Matsuyama said. “I wanted to recognize the
people in Japan and I wanted to thank those people who supported
me.”  Professionals Ryo Ishikawa, Hiroyuki Fujita and Yuta Ikeda
are the other Japanese golfers in the 99-player Masters field.  Ishikawa, also 19, said last week that he will donate his
2011 tournament winnings to relief efforts in Japan. He was
third on the Japanese tour’s money list with just over $1.8
million last year and also won about $230,000 from events in the
U.S. and  Europe .  A nine-time winner on the Japanese tour, Ishikawa is
seeking to make the cut for weekend play at the Masters for the
first time in three appearances.  “I understand that many sports events in Japan are
postponed or canceled because of the quake, but at the same time
I would like to emphasize the power and energy that sports can
create for those people to encourage them,” Ishikawa said in
Augusta. “It’s my intention to play really well. It will be the
best way to encourage people in Japan.”  First Out  Ishikawa will play with Bill Haas of the U.S. and two-time
British Open champion Padraig Harrington of Ireland. Fujita, who
is 41 and making his debut at Augusta National, will be the
first Japanese player on the course tomorrow, grouped with 2003
Masters champion Mike Weir of  Canada  and two-time U.S. Open
winner Retief Goosen of South Africa.  Ikeda, 25, finished 29th in his first trip to the Masters a
year ago. Tomorrow, he’ll play alongside a pair of Americans --
2003 U.S. Open champion  Jim Furyk  and 2009 British Open winner
 Stewart Cink .  Ishikawa said playing well at the Masters this week is the
best way the Japanese golfers can help recovery efforts at home,
both from an emotional standpoint and, in his case, an economic
one.  “I see how those people supported me and now it’s my turn
to support those people who are in need,” Ishikawa said. “I
recognize that as my social status in Japan is getting higher, I
believe that is one of the responsibilities. I would love to
continue to do that as a professional.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in Augusta,  Georgia , at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  