-- 
Jet Fuel Trailing Gasoil No Help to Airlines: Energy Markets

-- B y   Y e e   K a i   P i n
-- 
2011-04-06T18:06:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/jet-fuel-trailing-gasoil-no-help-to-airlines-energy-markets-1-.html
Jet fuel is poised to extend the
biggest quarterly rally since 2009 in  Asia  as refiners curb
production in favor of gasoil, hurting airlines facing reduced
 travel demand  because of Japan’s nuclear crisis.  While both fuels surged 28 percent in Singapore during the
first three months of the year, gasoil accelerated in March,
gaining 6 percent, compared with jet fuel’s 4.5 percent advance,
encouraging refiners to produce more of the trucking oil at the
expense of aviation fuel.  Airline profits may drop 50 percent this year as oil rises,
the  International Air Transport Association  said March 2.  Qantas
Airways Ltd. (QAN)  and  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  raised surcharges in
March because of fuel costs, fanned by a drop in Japan’s jet-
fuel exports after the March 11 earthquake. The rally in
 aviation fuel  is likely to continue in the second quarter, a
Bloomberg News survey showed.  “If gasoil demand is strong, refiners will increase
production at the expense of jet,” said Ravi Narayanaswamy, a
Singapore-based analyst at Purvin & Gertz Inc., a U.S. energy
consultant. “Given that scenario, jet supply will be reduced
and supply-demand fundamentals will tighten.”  Asian refiners vary the ratio of jet-fuel and gasoil
production depending on the price difference, or regrade,
between the two middle-distillate products. Aviation fuel’s
premium shrank 65 percent in March and was at 50 cents a barrel
April 4, the lowest since September 2010, according to data from
PVM Oil Associates, a London-based broker of over-the-counter
energy derivatives. It was as high as $3.30 on Feb. 22.  Shrinking Premium  Gasoil, or diesel, has outpaced gains in jet fuel after
power-generation demand from Chinese factories caused shortages
of the industrial fuel in the world’s biggest energy user. The
regrade may narrow further amid  Japan ’s increasing need for
gasoil as it recovers from the devastation caused by the
magnitude-9 earthquake, according to Narayanaswamy.  “Demand for gasoil is expected to be stronger as
reconstruction activities start,” he said. “If the pull on
gasoil is so much stronger, the regrade may come down.”  Jet-fuel cargoes for loading in Singapore rose 1.7 percent
to $138.45 a barrel today, PVM data show. Prices will probably
climb in the next three months as supplies diminish, according
to the Bloomberg News survey of seven traders and analysts.
Gasoil advanced 1 percent to $138.50 a barrel.  Japan Exports  A drop in Japan’s jet-fuel exports may compound declining
refinery production prompted by the narrowing regrade. The
country shut about 29 percent of its refining capacity in the
aftermath of the quake. As three facilities remain closed, JX
Nippon Oil & Energy Corp., the largest refiner, said it will
reduce processing in April by 19 percent from a year earlier.  Japan, the world’s third-biggest oil user, exported about
133,000 barrels a day of jet fuel in February, according to
Bloomberg calculations based on government data.  “Japan’s exports are questionable,” said Alex Yap, an
analyst at FACTS Global Energy in  Singapore , an energy
consultant. “Japan and  Korea  would usually raise jet-fuel
exports around now.”  Airlines are facing “pathetic” profit margins this year
as a result of fuel costs, IATA Chief Executive Officer  Giovanni Bisignani  said March 29. The first quarter was “very
difficult,” and a slowdown in air-passenger traffic is likely
to accelerate in the aftermath of Japan’s earthquake, he said.  Fuel Surcharges  Singapore Airlines raised its fuel surcharge as much as $26
per ticket last month as a result of the gain in the price of
jet fuel, the company said March 9. Tickets on domestic Qantas
flights will cost as much as about $10 more per leg from March
31, Qantas said. That’s the second price-increase in five weeks.  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) , the world’s largest
carrier, will cut 10 percent of capacity on U.S.-Japan routes in
April and 14 percent in May, citing a “measurable decline” in
demand for travel following the quake.  Qantas,  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and  Cathay Pacific Airways
Ltd. (293)  have also cut services to and from Japan as the country
struggles to contain radiation at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear
plant, crippled in the aftermath of the temblor.  Japan Airlines reduced capacity including flights to  Hong
Kong , Beijing and Honolulu after reporting a 25 percent drop in
international passenger numbers following the March 11 quake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yee Kai Pin in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  