-- 
JGC to Pay $218.8 Million to Resolve Foreign Bribery Charges

-- B y   M i c h a e l   R i l e y   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 
2011-04-06T23:55:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/jgc-agrees-to-pay-218-8-million-to-resolve-u-s-claims-of-nigerian-bribes.html
JGC Corp. (1963) , a Tokyo-based
construction and engineering company, agreed to pay a $218.8
million criminal penalty to avoid prosecution on charges it
bribed Nigerian officials for contracts on natural gas projects.  The U.S.  Justice Department  today charged JGC in Houston
with one count of conspiracy and one count of aiding and
abetting violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act in what
it called a decade-long bribery scheme. The department agreed to
defer prosecution for two years and dismiss the charges if JGC
improves its programs to comply with the law.  JGC’s agreement to pay the fine brings to $1.5 billion the
total penalties in a case against a joint venture known as TSKJ
that included Houston-based Kellogg Brown & Root LLC, Paris-
based  Technip SA (TEC)  and Dutch engineering firm Snamprogetti
Netherlands BV, according to a Justice Department statement.  The joint venture’s prosecution represents one of the
biggest foreign bribery cases undertaken by the Justice
Department since it stepped up pursuit of such cases starting in
2008 when Munich-based Siemens,  Germany ’s largest engineering
company, paid $1.6 billion to settle U.S. and German probes.  “Each of the four companies in the TSKJ joint venture, the
former chairman of the U.S. joint venture partner, and several
other individuals have now been held accountable for a massive
conspiracy to bribe Nigerian government officials to obtain
lucrative construction contracts,” Deputy Assistant Attorney
General Mythili Raman said in the statement.  Directors Approval  JGC Chairman Keisuke Takeuchi, in a document attached to
the company’s deferred prosecution agreement, said the board of
directors unanimously approved the deal at a meeting today at
the company’s headquarters.  He said the directors had been aware of the negotiations
with the U.S. Justice Department and sought to resolve “certain
illegal payments to foreign officials” the company had made in
order to win contracts.  JGC’s lawyer, Manny Abascal of Latham & Watkins in  Los
Angeles , declined to comment on the deal in an e-mail.  The bribes were paid to obtain $6 billion in contracts to
build pipelines and processing facilities at  Nigeria ’s Bonny
Island liquefied natural gas project, according to the charges.  Civil Charges  In July, Snamprogetti agreed to pay $365 million with the
help of former parent company Eni SpA to settle criminal and
civil charges. In June, Technip, Europe’s second-largest
oilfield-services provider, agreed to pay $338 million to avoid
prosecution and resolve Securities and Exchange Commission
claims. Kellogg Brown & Root, a former unit of  Halliburton Co. (HAL) ,
and Halliburton agreed in February 2009 to pay a total of $579
million to resolve criminal and SEC allegations.  In 2006, Milan-based Saipem SpA,  Europe ’s largest oilfield-
services provider, bought Snamprogetti from ENI.  JGC pushed the joint venture to hire two agents who over
time paid $182 million in bribes to Nigerian government
officials, according to court documents.  One of those intermediaries, U.K. lawyer Jeffrey Tesler,
was hired as a consultant to pay bribes to high-level Nigerian
government officials, including top-level executive branch
officials, court documents said.  Nigerian Officials  JGC also hired a Japanese trading company to bribe lower-
level Nigerian officials as part of the scheme, according to the
court documents.  The joint venture paid $132 million to a Gibraltar
corporation controlled by Tesler and $50 million to the Japanese
trading company, money ultimately intended to be used as bribes,
the court documents said.  Tesler pleaded guilty in March to one count of conspiracy
and one count of violating the FCPA. He agreed to forfeit almost
$149 million.  KBR’s former CEO, Albert Stanley, pleaded guilty in
September 2008 to conspiracy to violate the FCPA in a charge
related to the case.  Under the terms of the agreement, the JGC will strengthen
its internal anti-bribery compliance program and hire a monitor
to review those efforts, according to the Justice Department
statement.  The case is USA v. JGC Corp., 11-cr-00260, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Riley in Washington at 
 michaelriley@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 