-- 
Kenya's Shilling Weakens as Central Bank Eases Liquidity Crunch With Repo

-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 
2011-04-06T11:17:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/kenyan-shilling-weakens-as-central-bank-eases-liquidity-crunch-with-repo.html
Kenya ’s shilling weakened for a
fourth trading day as the Central Bank of Kenya sought to pump 2
billion shillings ($23.8 million) into the money market through
a reverse-repurchase agreement.  The currency of East Africa’s biggest economy depreciated
0.5 percent to 84.20 per dollar by 1:28 p.m. in Nairobi, the
capital. A close at that level would be the weakest since March
25, according to Bloomberg data. The currency closed at 83.77
yesterday.  “The decision by the central bank to inject more cash
through a reverse repo is to ease the liquidity crunch,” Wilson Mutai, a trader at Nairobi-based African Banking Corp., said in
a phone interview. “The local unit has responded by weakening
against the greenback.”  In Kenya, reverse repos involve the purchase of securities
from banks to inject cash into the banking system, according to
the central bank. In December, the bank sold 5 billion shillings
worth of seven-day reverse repos at 1.34 percent.  The central bank also announced that it is selling 18
billion shillings of two- and 15-year bonds. The sale, which
began yesterday, will end on April 19, it said in a statement on
its website.  “The decision to offer the two tenor bonds is to attract
both short-term investors such as financial institutions and
long-term investors such as fund managers to ensure uptake,”
Peter Mwirigi, chief fixed-income dealer at Nairobi-based
Sterling Investment Bank Ltd., said in a phone interview.  With Kenya’s annual inflation rate currently at 9.2
percent, investors may seek a higher return than a previous
auction of similar-dated securities to “ensure a positive rate
of return on their investment,” he said. The central bank sold
15.3 billion shillings of two- and 15-year bonds in December at
weighted average yields of 4.586 percent and 10.923 percent
respectively.  “The market players are likely to ask for higher yields,
with expectations of 7.5 percent for the two-year and 11.5
percent for the 15-year bond,” Mwirigi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  