-- 
Kenya’s Odinga Says ICC Hearings on Violence ‘Unprecedented, Unfortunate’

-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a   a n d   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-04-06T15:14:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/kenya-s-odinga-says-icc-hearings-on-violence-unprecedented-unfortunate-.html
The  International Criminal Court 
hearings against Kenyan suspects is “unprecedented and
unfortunate,” said Prime Minister  Raila Odinga .  “Unprecedented because it has never happened to our
citizens before,” Odinga said in an e-mailed statement from the
East African nation’s capital, Nairobi, today. “Unfortunate
because it is a big statement on the failure of our national
institutions. From the ICC, we expect nothing but justice for
the victims and a fair process for the suspects.”  Six Kenyans accused of committing crimes against humanity
following the disputed December 2007 presidential election are
due to make their first appearance before the Hague-based
International Criminal Court on April 7 and April 8. At these
initial hearings, the suspects will find out details about the
proposed charges against them.  The Kenyan government last week filed applications alleging
the charges are admissible and disputing the court’s
jurisdiction. President Mwai Kibaki is championing efforts to
convince the  United Nations Security Council  to defer the cases
for a year while the country changes its legal system to enable
its courts to hear cases stemming from post election violence.
Previously, lawmakers have blocked several attempts to set-up a
local tribunal.  Two months of fighting between ethnic groups left 1,500
people dead and displaced 300,000 in East Africa’s largest
economy. The ethnic clashes subsided after Kibaki, a member of
the largest tribe, Kikuyu, formed a unity government with his
political rival Odinga, of the Luo group.  The ICC issued summonses for Finance Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta , suspended Higher Education Minister William Ruto, head
of the public service Francis Muthaura and Henry Kosgey, who
stepped down as industrialization minister in January. Former
police chief Mohammed Hussein Ali and Joshua Arap Sang, a radio
presenter, were also identified as suspects. All six men defend
their innocence and say they will cooperate with the ICC.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 