-- 
King Faces Isolation in Europe on Interest Rates as ECB Tightens Policy

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-04-07T11:53:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/king-faces-isolation-in-europe-on-rates-as-ecb-prepares-to-tighten-policy.html
Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King 
is finding himself more isolated in  Europe  as he fights to keep
record-low  interest rates  at a time when borrowing costs are
increasing across the 17-nation euro region.  The bank’s nine-member Monetary Policy Committee voted
today to keep the benchmark interest rate at a record low of 0.5
percent. King, who chaired the meeting in London, has resisted
calls by some officials to raise the rate as price pressures
intensify. The European Central Bank today raised its main rate
for the first time since July 2008.  The MPC has held off raising borrowing costs even after
inflation accelerated to more than twice the bank’s target, with
King saying price growth will ease as government budget cuts
restrain the economic recovery. Keeping rates on hold as the ECB
tightens policy may weaken the pound, amplifying import-price
inflation. The currency pared its gain against the euro after
the decisions.  “On the basis of the worsening in the inflation outlook,
the case for an interest-rate hike has increased,” said  Alan Clarke , an economist at BNP Paribas SA in London. “However,
uncertainty on the durability of the recovery in activity is
holding the committee back from pulling the trigger.”  The pound erased its gain against the dollar after the Bank
of England announcement. It traded at $1.6305 as of 12:47 p.m.
in London, down from $1.6332 yesterday. Against the euro,
sterling traded at 87.58 pence, from an earlier high of 87.30
pence. Bonds declined, with the yield on the 10-year gilt rising
3 basis points to 3.79 percent.  Investor Bets  Today’s Bank of England decision to hold its key rate was
forecast by all 57 economists in a Bloomberg survey. The central
bank also left its emergency bond-purchase program at 200
billion pounds ($326 billion), predicted by all 32 economists in
another survey.  Minutes of the decision, which will show if any officials
joined  Andrew Sentance ,  Martin Weale  and  Spencer Dale  in calling
for a rate increase, will be published April 20. Earlier today,
the  Bank of Japan  held its benchmark at 0.1 percent in  Tokyo .  Investors have priced in a 25 basis-point jump in the U.K.
rate by July, according to forward rates on the sterling
overnight interbank average, or Sonia, compiled by Tullett
Prebon Plc. They have priced in a second increase by November.  ECB Decision  In the euro area, the ECB raised its key rate to 1.25
percent from 1 percent today, a move predicted by all 57
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Sweden’s central bank in
February raised its benchmark repo rate for a fifth time since
July and signaled it will pick up the pace of monetary
tightening to keep inflation in check.  “The pressure is building” on the Bank of England,  Ross Walker , an economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in
 London , said in a telephone interview. “It’s certainly not a
spectacular recovery, but there are persuasive reasons to start
withdrawing some of the stimulus to guard against a bigger
tightening in the future.”  Data this week showed U.K. services growth accelerated in
March to the fastest pace in more than a year. The National
Institute of Economic and Social Research, whose clients include
the central bank and the U.K. Treasury, estimated yesterday that
gross domestic product rose 0.7 percent in the first quarter
after falling 0.5 percent in the previous three months.  GDP Evidence  Bank of England Deputy Governor Charles Bean has indicated
that a first-quarter GDP rebound may not be enough to swing his
vote, saying in a Times newspaper interview last month that it
may not be immediately clear if it is a “temporary bounce.”  Minutes of the MPC’s March meeting showed the majority saw
“merit in waiting” to assess the impact of the unrest in the
Middle East and the government’s fiscal squeeze to reduce the
 budget deficit . Since that meeting, the earthquake and tsunami
in  Japan  have clouded the outlook for global trade.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has found himself
in a similar situation to King, with minutes of policy makers’
March 15 meeting showing divisions among officials.  A “few” among the central bank’s governors and regional
bank presidents said tighter credit may be warranted this year,
while a “few others noted that exceptional policy accommodation
could be appropriate beyond 2011,” according to the minutes.  Commodity Surge  As the Bank of England holds fire, central banks in
emerging markets have already responded to restrain inflation.
China increased its benchmark this week for the fourth time
since the end of the global financial crisis, while  India ,
 Thailand  and Taiwan all raised their rates last month.  Corn prices have surged about 50 percent in the past six
months, while crude oil is up 33 percent. U.K. inflation, which
quickened to 4.4 percent in February, has also been boosted by a
sales-tax increase, part of the government’s bid to erode the
bulk of the budget deficit by 2015.  As well as pushing up inflation, rising commodity prices
are squeezing consumers, threatening the recovery. Take-home pay
growth for employees at Britain’s largest listed companies grew
at the slowest pace on record in the first quarter, according to
VocaLink Ltd.  Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS) , the U.K.’s largest
clothing retailer, said yesterday it expects conditions to be
“increasingly challenging.”  “A lot of other data has been weaker, in particular,
incomes, confidence and retail,” said  George Buckley , an
economist at Deutsche Bank AG in London. “It’s looking like
there’s more of a risk that they move earlier than August, but I
think they probably will wait to see some more evidence of the
recovery.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  