-- 
KKR, Yageo CEO Offer $1.1 Billion to Buy Out Taiwan Electronic-Parts Maker

-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 
2011-04-06T12:43:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/kkr-yageo-ceo-offer-buyout-valuing-taiwanese-parts-maker-at-1-6-billion.html
KKR & Co. and  Yageo Corp. (2327) ’s founder
offered about NT$31 billion ($1.1 billion) to buy out the
Taiwanese electronic-parts maker after failing to boost the
value of the company in the past four years.  Yageo Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Pierre Chen, his
family, and funds managed by KKR jointly offered NT$16.10 in
cash for each share they don’t already own, valuing Taiwan’s
largest passive components maker at NT$47 billion, the companies
said in a statement today. The bid, via KKR and Chen’s Orion
Investment Co., is 14 percent higher than the previous closing
price in Taipei.  The bidders, who together own 34 percent of Yageo, made the
offer after last month’s magnitude-9 earthquake crippled scores
of Japanese factories that make electronic components. Yageo,
which makes components such as ceramic capacitors and inductors,
is  Taiwan ’s cheapest supplier based on projected earnings,
according to analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “Yageo is undervalued,” said Nicholas Teo, head of Taiwan
research at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets in Taipei who rates the
stock “buy” with a price estimate of NT$19.00. The
reorganization of the company since 2007 hasn’t been reflected
in the share price, he said.  KKR Investment  The per-share offer values the stock at 7.3 times estimated
2011 earnings, the lowest multiple among nine Taiwanese
component makers tracked by Bloomberg. Yageo climbed 6.7 percent,
the daily limit, to NT$15.05 at the 1:30 p.m. close in Taipei
today.  Orion’s offer price values Yageo at NT$47 billion after KKR
converts bonds it currently holds into shares in the company.
That’s 11 times Yageo’s earnings last year.  KKR’s 2007 investment in Yageo prompted the Taiwanese
company to appoint Chief Financial Officer Dora Chang and
recruit Masayuki Fujimoto from  Japan ’s Taiyo Yuden Co. as chief
technology officer.  Under the management, which included Chen taking over as
CEO, the stock jumped fivefold from a low of NT$3.04 in November
2008. As of its previous close, the shares had fallen 11 percent
since June 5, 2007, the day KKR announced its initial investment
in Yageo. By comparison, Taiwan’s benchmark Taiex index had
gained 4.8 percent.  Chen, along with his family, plans to own 55 percent of
Yageo and will continue to lead the company, he said in a letter
to employees  posted  on the company’s website today.  UBS AG advised Orion. Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton &
Garrison,  Baker & McKenzie , and Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP
were the legal advisers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net . 