-- 
KKR Barbarians Go Green as Buyout Firms Profit Cutting Energy

-- B y   K a m b i z   F o r o o h a r
-- 
2011-04-06T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/kkr-barbarians-go-green-as-buyout-firms-embrace-more-profit-in-less-energy.html
For much of 2006 and into 2007,
Environmental Defense Fund had been battling to stop TXU Corp.,
Texas’s largest power producer, from building 11 coal-fired
plants. The barrage of lawsuits, town-hall meetings and online
community groups was also becoming a major headache for KKR &
Co., TPG Capital and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s private-equity
arm, which were planning the world’s biggest leveraged buyout of
the utility company.  “We had to get the environmentalists on board,” recalls
 William Reilly , senior adviser at  Fort Worth , Texas-based TPG,
who headed the Environmental Protection Agency under President
 George H.W. Bush .  Reilly sat down with James Marston, director of EDF’s Texas
office, on Feb. 21, 2007, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in
its May issue. Over scrambled eggs and coffee at San Francisco’s
Mandarin Oriental  hotel,  the two agreed that to win
environmentalists’ blessing, TXU’s new owners would build just
three plants, Marston says.  At TPG’s California Street offices, co-founder David Bonderman and KKR partner Frederick Goltz weighed in. By 1 a.m.,
the would-be acquirers had agreed to cut TXU’s  carbon emissions 
to 1990 levels by 2020, spend $400 million on  energy efficiency 
and tie executive pay to environmental goals. The $43 billion
LBO was announced four days later.  “We did it to be on the right side of history,” Reilly
says.  New Image  Long the masters of dealmaking and cost cutting, buyout
firms are allying with environmentalists to craft a new green
image.  KKR, architect of the nasty takeover in Bryan Burrough and
John Helyar’s “Barbarians at the Gate: The Fall of RJR
Nabisco,” hired EDF’s Elizabeth Seeger to help wean companies
off carbon. TPG has put 10 of its acquisitions, or about a
quarter of its holdings, on low-energy diets. Washington-based
 Carlyle Group , the world’s second-largest private-equity firm,
behind New York-based  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , weighs such ideas as
whether ecofriendly packaging can trim shipping costs before it
inks a deal.  Buyout firms are in a good position to deliver on
environmental pledges, says Anne Simpson, a senior portfolio
manager at the California Public Employees’ Retirement System,
the largest U.S. public pension fund, because they plan for the
long haul and make blanket decisions covering dozens of firms.  ‘Vagaries of Public Markets’  KKR, founded in 1976, owns or has  stakes  in 58 companies
with $220 billion in annual revenue. Retailer Toys “R” Us
Inc., hospital giant HCA Holdings Inc. and research firm Nielsen
Holdings NV are among the big names.  “As a private-equity firm, you have more scope to
influence what your companies are up to,” Simpson says. “They
are not subject to the vagaries of public markets.”  Not everyone is buying the industry’s newfound green
patina. Michael Lazarus, a senior scientist at the Seattle
office of the  Stockholm Environment Institute,  says KKR is
simply couching good business practices in environmental
trappings.  “If these companies could show that they were reducing
energy intensity well beyond the industry norms, and thus
showing leadership, that might be news-worthy,” Lazarus says.
“I don’t see that here.”  Last year, the EPA honored 50  environmental leaders  for
their commitment to curbing  greenhouse gases . Snack-food and
soft-drink maker PepsiCo Inc. and appliance manufacturer
 Whirlpool Corp. (WHR)  were among the  Energy Star winners . KKR
companies were not.  Profit Motive  Buyout firms publicize good deeds in press releases and
tout green achievements on  websites , but they’re still mostly
concerned about the bottom line, says Colin Blaydon, director of
the  Center for Private Equity and Entrepreneurship  at Dartmouth
College’s Tuck School of Business in Hanover,  New Hampshire .  “LBO firms are not making investments just to enhance
their reputations,” Blaydon says. “Going green is a way of
cutting fuel costs -- and long-term trends are for those costs
to rise.”  Environmentalists are nudging their new partners to take
bigger steps. EDF President Fred Krupp says he phoned  Henry Kravis , KKR’s co-founder and co-chairman, in October 2007. Over
lunch, he suggested that Kravis’s firm, which had just become
partial owner of TXU, work with EDF to trim costs and carbon
emissions at its other holdings.  Green Savings  Seeger, 34, came on board as  EDF’s  liaison and helped set
up what KKR calls the green portfolio. Kravis and fellow founder
 George Roberts  declined to comment for this story.  KKR, originally called Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co.,
enrolled three companies in the voluntary program in 2008. Those
firms,  Primedia Inc. (PRM) ,  Sealy Corp. (ZZ)  and U.S. Foodservice Inc., cut
fuel, materials and paper consumption, saving $16.4 million that
year, Seeger says in a 41st-floor conference room steps from a
wall adorned with black tribal masks and abstract paintings at
KKR’s midtown Manhattan headquarters.  “A real sign of success for me personally is when I go
back to revisit a company and they’ve started to think of new,
innovative programs or products,” says Seeger, who has an
environmental studies degree from  the University of Chicago  and
an MBA from the University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton School.  Seeger says her first hurdle at KKR was figuring out how to
measure performance.  “One of the challenges of working with companies on
environmental issues is the historic absence of good metrics,”
she says.  Meaningful Metrics  For U.S. Foodservice, she traveled to Rosemont, Illinois,
to assess the delivery fleet’s efficiency.  “It’s not as easy as miles per gallon, it turns out,” she
says.  Instead, Seeger looked at how many restaurants or hospitals
the company served per gallon or how much Angus beef or frozen
lasagna it delivered.  After working with Seeger, the nation’s second-largest food
distributor installed controls that prevented trucks from going
over 62 miles (100 kilometers) per hour and added shut-offs that
end idling after four minutes. It installed programmable
thermostats at storage facilities and replaced light bulbs with
high-intensity fluorescent lighting at 34 locations, saving $7.7
million.  In addition, U.S. Foodservice saved $14.6 million in fuel
costs and lowered carbon dioxide emissions by 13 percent in the
2008 to 2009 period from its 2007 base line, she says.  ‘Work in Progress’  KKR hasn’t forsaken all carbon-intensive practices. Its
partnership with Premier Natural Resources LLC in Tulsa,
Oklahoma, buys oil and gas fields. A venture with Hilcorp Energy
Co. drills shale gas deposits in  Texas .  While TXU, renamed Energy Future Holdings Corp., is
sticking to its promises with EDF, the utility is the 12th-
largest carbon emitter among U.S. fossil-fuel-burning power
producers in 2008, a  study  published in 2010 by the New York-
based  Natural Resources Defense Council  found. A 2006 NRDC
report ranked TXU as the 13th largest.  “This is very much a work in progress,” says Ralph Cavanagh, co-director of the NRDC’s energy program.  TXU’s 3 new coal-fired plants -- the ones whittled down
from the proposed 11 -- are adding an extra 22 million tons of
CO2 to the atmosphere every year, says Tom Smith, Texas director
of  Public Citizen , a consumer advocacy group founded by  Ralph Nader .  ‘A Pittance’  “EFH has spent a great deal of money on energy efficiency
and wind and solar,” Smith says. “The benefits are a pittance
compared to the environmental damage EFH is doing.”  The utility invested $229 million for energy improvements
as of 2010, spokeswoman Lisa Singleton says. EFH is the largest
provider of wind power in Texas and the fifth largest in the
U.S., she says.  KKR is making better progress with the 17 companies now in
the green portfolio. Sealy, the world’s largest mattress maker
and one of the original members, cut CO2 emissions for 2008 and
2009 by a total of 23 percent with software that pinpoints
shorter delivery routes. The Trinity, North Carolina-based
company also loaded its trucks with more beds per trip. It
reduced waste 37 percent from 2007 by recycling leftover cotton
and wood. In total, Sealy has avoided $12.1 million in costs it
would have incurred had it not changed, according to KKR data.  Cooling Computers  KKR put SunGard Data Systems Inc. in Wayne, Pennsylvania,
on a plan to lower energy use at 60 data centers in  North
America  and  Europe . Computers in these buildings process trading
and financial data for banks and brokerages that manage $25
trillion of assets. They also produce three-quarters of the
company’s greenhouse gas emissions, says Ryan Whisnant,
SunGard’s director of sustainability.  “In addition to powering the servers, the biggest energy
use is cooling the data centers,” Whisnant says.  Engineers configured the server cabinets to separate cold
air that cools the servers from hot air the computers discharge.
SunGard’s financial system unit is consolidating 25 centers into
just 5, for net savings of $5 million over 5 years and an annual
reduction of almost 1,000 metric tons of CO2, Whisnant says.  Despite the improvements, SunGard’s greenhouse gas
emissions rose 6 percent in 2009 from a year earlier as business
grew. It avoided $3.8 million in operating costs it would have
paid had it not made the changes, KKR says on its  website.   Reporting costs that a company avoided or CO2 that it would
have emitted isn’t the same as making actual reductions, says
Kim Sheehan, a  University of Oregon  advertising professor and a
founder of  Greenwashing Index , which evaluates environmental
claims. KKR may be touting more than it’s delivering, she says.  ‘Public’s Impression’  “On some of these companies, the public’s impression is
that the greenhouse gas emissions are reduced but in reality
they increased,” Sheehan says after examining green portfolio
data on KKR’s website.  KKR announced in June 2010 that eight green portfolio
members had saved $160 million and trimmed CO2 emissions by
345,000 metric tons in 2009. At three of the eight, however,
emissions increased.  Discount retailer  Dollar General Corp. (DG)  accounted for $106
million, or 66 percent, of the reported savings. Its emissions
from stores and trucks rose 5 percent after it added more than
450 outlets. Even so, KKR said Dollar General had saved $67
million based on the number of products shipped per ton of CO2.
Another $39 million in savings came from reducing packaging
waste.  ‘Starting Phase’  “We are still in a starting phase and these are growing
companies,” Seeger says. The challenge is to expand and cut
emissions without hurting profits, she says.  EDF began working with Carlyle in 2009. A Carlyle managing
director combed through the firm’s previous 320 deals. Then,
along with Cincinnati-based consultant  Payne Firm Inc.,  it
created what it called the EcoValuScreen. Carlyle is adopting
metrics that cover greenhouse emissions, waste, water use, toxic
chemicals and forest products in evaluating deals.  “We had looked at environmental issues -- but from a risk
perspective,” says Bryan Corbett, a Carlyle principal. “EDF
wanted us to think about operational change that might improve
environmental performance and help the bottom line.”  Carlyle put its metrics to work in July 2010. It paid $3.8
billion for vitamin maker NBTY Inc., which manufactures
nutritional supplements under the Nature’s Bounty, Holland &
Barrett and Puritan’s Pride brands.  $20 Million in Savings  Before Carlyle completed the deal, Payne consultants
evaluated manufacturing and distribution and suggested ways to
cut packaging and increase recycling. In January, NBTY opened a
plant in Burton-on-Trent, England, that can produce more than a
million packets of dried fruits and nuts per week. The plant has
a recycling facility right on the grounds.  When TPG, founded as Texas Pacific Group, bought Caesars
Entertainment Corp. in 2008 with Leon Black’s Apollo Global
Management LLC, the world’s biggest casino operator had been
investing in energy savings since 2003. Under its new owners,
Caesars accelerated its efforts, cutting annual carbon emissions
by 106,000 metric tons and trimming electricity consumption by
163 million kilowatt-hours annually, partly by upgrading air
conditioning better designed to cool giant gambling parlors in
the desert. The result: $20 million in annual savings, says Pat Tiernan, TPG’s sustainability operations executive.  ‘Low-Hanging Fruit’  Environmentalists say buyout firms can go further.  “Ecoefficiency is low-hanging fruit,” says Michelle Chan,
economic policy project director at Friends of the Earth. “It
makes a lot of financial sense, but I like to see more ambitious
projects.”  Harrah’s Rincon, a TPG-Apollo property, shows what’s
possible. The Valley Center, California-based entertainment spot
built a 3,936-panel solar field that provides electricity to
power about 90 percent of the resort’s heating and air
conditioning and offsets almost a quarter of its total energy
consumption.  If KKR and fellow buyout giants are serious about gaining
green credibility, Seeger and other newly empowered
environmental advocates have plenty of similar ideas in their
repertoire.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kambiz Foroohar in  New York  at 
 kforoohar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at   mserrill@bloomberg.net . 