-- 
Kylie Boogies, Lovers Murder, Caffeine Overload: London Weekend

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-04-06T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/kylie-boogies-lover-kills-caffeine-freaks-overload-great-london-weekend.html
Kyliebrings her tour to  London  this
weekend, with endless costume changes, gladiator dancers, a
golden chariot, near-nude bongo players and as much high-voltage
pop gloss as she can fit on the  O2  stage.  The former Minogue’s five boogie-filled nights at the arena
will concentrate on her album “Aphrodite” with its single
“All the Lovers” as well as running through hits such as a
rocked-up version of “Can’t Get You Out of My Head.”  O2, SE10 0DX, April 7-11. Information: +44-20-8463-2000,
 http://www.theo2.co.uk  and  http://www.kylie.com/   Saturday  Max Mara doesn’t just make frilly frocks and luxury coats.  The Italian fashion brand also sponsors a biannual art
prize for women in collaboration with London’s  Whitechapel
Gallery . This year’s shortlist was just released.  You can see the work of the previous winner, German-born
Andrea Buettner, at the Whitechapel. After a six-month stay in
 Italy  -- part of it spent living among nuns -- Buettner has
produced a series of unframed, religiously themed woodcuts. Many
are inspired by the Giotto frescoes in the Basilica of Saint
Francis of Assisi. The Basilica was heavily damaged in a 1997
earthquake and painstakingly restored.  “Andrea Buettner: The Poverty of Riches” ends Sunday.
Information:  http://www.whitechapelgallery.org  or
+44-20-7522-7888.  No need to step outside the gallery to eat well. Chef
 Angela Hartnett , who holds a Michelin star at Murano, is the
consultant to the Whitechapel Gallery Dining Room, which serves
seasonal dishes reflecting her Italian-British heritage.
Information:  http://bit.ly/fWDVFx  or +44-20-7522-7896.  Saturday  Anne-Marie Duff won trophies for her role as  John Lennon ’s
guitar-strumming mom in the movie “Nowhere Boy.”  Now on stage in “Cause Celebre,” she plays flirty Alma,
who beds a 17-year-old handyman, and stands trial for killing
her ageing spouse. The production is based on a true story,
though Duff is less life-like than on the big screen.  The finest moments come in the courtroom, where her wigged
lawyer (the excellent Nicholas Jones) does his damnedest to
spare her the gallows.  “Cause Celebre” is at the Old Vic Theatre, The Cut,
London SE1 8NB. Information:  http://www.oldvictheatre.com  or
+44-844-871-7628.  Just two minutes’ walk from the Old Vic, Livebait serves
ethically sourced fish, from tempura baby squid to classic
haddock & chips with mushy peas. It’s open till 11 p.m.
Information:  http://bit.ly/7OQfMO  or +44-20-7928-7211.  Sunday  Caffeine freaks get their very own festival this weekend.  Stalls will offer more than just your morning mocha:
They’ll roast coffee beans, as well as organize expert talks and
barista demos.  Proceeds from your 8.50 pound ($13.90) visitor ticket will
go to Project Waterfall, which helps provide clean drinking
water to  Africa ’s coffee-producing countries.  The London Coffee Festival runs April 8 to 10 at Old Truman
Brewery, 91 Brick Lane, E1 6QL. Information:
 http://www.londoncoffeefestival.com .  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London at 
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 