-- 
NATO Escalates Its Air Campaign Over Libya After Rebels Criticize Pullback

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-04-06T18:09:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/nato-escalates-its-air-campaign-over-libya-after-rebels-criticize-pullback.html
NATO escalated its air campaign over
 Libya  a day after a rebel commander criticized the alliance for
not doing enough to stop Muammar Qaddafi’s artillery attacks
that pushed rebels into retreat.  North Atlantic Treaty Organization jets planned to fly 198
missions over Libya today, an increase over 155 yesterday, NATO
chief spokeswoman Oana Lungescu said in a statement. The
“operational tempo has increased,” she said, without
specifying how many sorties were tasked for ground targets.
There were 66 “strike sorties” yesterday -- including 12 U.K.
attacks on Qaddafi’s tanks and armored vehicles -- up from 58 on
April 4, according to NATO and U.K government reports.  As a former U.S. congressman arrived in Tripoli for talks
with Qaddafi, French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe called the
situation on the ground “confused” and said coalition pilots
are having difficulty targeting because both sides use similar
 pickup trucks .  NATO is slow “in responding to our instructions” on
targets and failing to “give us what we need,” Abdel Fattah Younes, head of the rebel army, said at a press conference
yesterday in Benghazi. Juppe’s comments, on France Info radio,
indicate NATO hasn’t established effective procedures with the
rebels for ground designation of targets. It may also reflect
the absence of U.S. A-10 Thunderbolt II and AC-130 Spectre
gunships since the U.S. withdrew from attack missions.  Regime Change  The U.S. and its allies need to more aggressively target
Qaddafi’s forces as part of an unspoken regime-change policy and
to avoid an “unstable stalemate,”  Anthony Cordesman , a
military analyst at the Center for Strategic and International
Studies in  Washington , wrote in a commentary on the research
group’s website.  “This means a more obvious ‘taking sides,’ it means
killing Qaddafi forces the moment they move or concentrate,
rather than waiting for them to attack, striking Qaddafi’s
military and security facilities, and finding excuses to strike
his compound,” he wrote.  Oil Slides  Crude oil futures pared gains after a U.S. government
report showed a smaller-than-forecast decrease in supplies of
gasoline. Crude oil for May delivery slid 21 cents to $108.13 a
barrel at 1:07 p.m. on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  The rebels were preparing to make their first international
oil sale as the tanker Equator, which can carry 1 million
barrels, departed the Marsa al Hariga terminal near the port of
Tobruk in rebel-held eastern Libya, according to ship-tracking
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Equator arrived yesterday and is now signaling
 Singapore  as its destination, the data show. The cargo may bring
more than $100 million for the rebels. The rebels’  national
council  said April 1 that it had reached a deal to have Qatar
help market Libyan oil, with proceeds going toward food, fuel,
medicine and other uses  The rebels retreated yesterday under heavy fire from the
oil port of Brega, about 150 miles (241 kilometers) south of
Benghazi. Rebels and loyalists have been waging running battles
on the coastal road between the Qaddafi stronghold of Sirte and
the rebel-held city of Ajdabiyah in the past six weeks.  More U.K. Jets  The U.S. military pulled out its fighter jets after an
April 4 mission over Libya, carrying out a pledge by President
 Barack Obama  to hand over most military missions to NATO and its
allies. The U.S. is supporting operations with surveillance  and
other specialized aircraft as well as navy ships.  Britain said today that it has shifted four Typhoon jets
from no-fly-zone duties to ground-attack missions, following the
addition yesterday of four ground-attack Eurofighter Tornado
jets. The U.K. “currently has 16 ground-attack aircraft under
NATO command,” the statement said. “This meets present
operational requirements.”  NATO’s Lungescu said today in a BBC television interview
that a third of Qaddafi’s military assets “have been
destroyed” and that loyalists are now hiding their armor from
NATO in cities such as Misrata. “They are using human shields
in effect,” she said.  Siege of Misrata  The rebels’ Younes was particularly critical of the 28-
member alliance for failing to stop Qaddafi’s weeks-long siege
of  Misrata , the rebel-held western city near Tripoli that has
been the scene of repeated attacks. A resident of Misrata
speaking by phone said that tank shelling had abated.  “It’s been relatively quiet today, however there are some
clashes in the center of the city,” said the resident, who
identified himself as Mountasser. “Tank shelling has stopped
but snipers are around.”  The U.S. and European governments have repeatedly said that
Qaddafi, 68, must leave and have rejected diplomatic overtures
from the Libyan government, which on April 4 called for an
“international dialogue” to resolve the conflict.  Curt Weldon, a former U.S. congressman, plans to meet
Qaddafi today to persuade the Libyan leader to relinquish power,
he wrote in a New York Times article. Weldon is leading a
private delegation to Tripoli at the invitation of a Qaddafi
aide.  “I’ve met him enough times to know that it will be very
hard to simply bomb him into submission,” Weldon wrote. He
proposed a United Nations-monitored cease-fire and negotiations
with “pragmatic and reform-minded” leaders within the regime,
possibly including Qaddafi’s son, Seif al-Islam.  Letter to Obama  Qaddafi sent a message to Obama, the official Libyan news
agency reported today. The message follows the “withdrawal of
America from the colonial crusader coalition of aggression
against Libya,” it said, without giving further details.  The U.S. and NATO need to escalate a policy of “regime
kill,” said Cordesman. Additional steps he recommends include
covertly arming and advising rebel forces as well as sending
Special Forces with laser illuminators to designate ground
targets. In addition, the alliance will need to tolerate “more
civilian losses and collateral damage in the short run --knowing
this is likely to reduce total civilian suffering in comparison
with any stalemate, Qaddafi victory, or low-level struggle.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  