-- 
Natural Gas Futures Drop to Three-Week Low on ‘Dark Cloud’ of Fundamentals

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 
2011-04-06T19:14:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/natural-gas-declines-in-new-york-on-dark-cloud-of-weather-stockpiles.html
Natural gas futures fell to the
lowest price in three weeks on forecasts of warmer weather that
may limit consumption of the fuel and leave supplies higher than
normal as the heating season ends.  Gas slipped 2 percent after private forecaster Commodity
Weather Group LLC predicted above-normal temperatures for parts
of the eastern and central U.S. next week. Inventories may total
1.572 trillion cubic feet for the week ended April 1, 3 billion
above the five-year average, Bloomberg data showed.  “The weather is not supportive of increasing prices, much
less sustaining prices, and supply is a huge fundamental weight
on the market,” said Jay Levine, president of Enerjay LLC, a
Portland, Maine, energy brokerage. “People feel that there’s a
dark cloud over natural gas that’s not going to dissipate.”  Natural gas for May delivery fell 8.5 cents to $4.146 per
million British thermal units on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , the lowest settlement price since March 16. The
futures have dropped 5.9 percent this year.  Above-normal temperatures are likely in the Northeast,
Southeast and Great Lakes region next week, Commodity Weather
Group predicted.  Texas ,  New Mexico  and Colorado may also be
warmer, according to  Matt Rogers , the company’s president.  The low temperature in New York on April 13 may be 46
degrees Fahrenheit (8 Celsius), 2 degrees above normal,
according to AccuWeather Inc. in State College, Pennsylvania.
The low in  Chicago  may be 49 degrees, 9 above normal.  About 52 percent of U.S. households use natural gas for
heating, according to the Energy Department.  Spring Weather  “The gas market continues to edge lower under pressure
from evaporating heating needs due to the onset of spring
weather across most of the country,” said  Addison Armstrong ,
 Gene McGillian  and Chris Dillman, analysts at Tradition Energy
in Stamford, Connecticut, in a note to clients today.  Heating demand may be 26 percent below normal from April 12
through April 16, said  David Salmon , a meteorologist with
Weather Derivatives in Belton,  Missouri , in a note to clients
today.  The Energy Department may report a withdrawal from gas
inventories tomorrow after cold weather in the Northeast last
week. Department data may show stockpiles fell by 52 billion
cubic feet in the week ended April 1 to 1.572 trillion,
according to the median of 21 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. The five-year average change in stored reserves for
the week is an increase of 13 billion.  Gas supplies in the week ended March 25 totaled 1.624
trillion cubic feet, 4.4 percent above the five-year average and
0.7 percent below year-earlier levels. Last year, working gas
stocks totaled 1.665 trillion cubic feet as of April 1.  Gas futures volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was
262,699 as of 2:36 p.m., compared with the three-month average
of 317,000. Volume was 218,965 yesterday. Open interest was
906,245 contracts. The three-month average open interest is
895,000.  The exchange has a one-business-day delay in reporting open
interest and full volume data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Buurma in  New York  at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  