-- 
New York Fed Sells $1.3 Billion of AIG-Related Mortgage Bonds in Auction

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 
2011-04-06T21:52:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/new-york-fed-sold-1-3-billion-of-mortgage-securities-in-auction.html
The  Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
sold $1.3 billion of mortgage securities in the first round of
its auctions tied to the U.S. rescue of  American International
Group Inc. (AIG)   The New York Fed had offered $1.5 billion of the
securities, according to a  posting  on its website. The central
bank didn’t disclose the amount paid. In a separate statement
today, the Treasury Department said it sold $3.9 billion last
month of a different type of mortgage bonds, which are
guaranteed by government-supported Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.  The Fed is selling its securities in blocks, after saying
March 31 that it would refuse an offer from New York-based AIG
to buy back the entire pool for $15.7 billion. The current
balance of the  investments  had totaled about $31 billion,
according to the insurer’s disclosures.  “Round one appears to have been a success,” said Bryan Whalen, co-head of the mortgage-backed bond group at Los
Angeles-based TCW Group Inc., which oversees $115 billion in
assets. “There was a fair amount of interest from investors and
it seems like the dealers are willing to fill in the gaps” on
less-popular securities, he said.  Jack Gutt , a New York Fed spokesman, declined to comment.  Selling Holdings  The Fed’s AIG-related mortgage-bond holdings are so-called
non-agency securities that don’t carry the backing of Fannie Mae
and  Freddie Mac  or federal agency Ginnie Mae.  “AIG continues to believe that AIG and the taxpayers, who
own 92 percent of AIG, would be better served by public auction
of the entire block of securities,” Mark Herr, a spokesman for
AIG, said in an e-mailed statement.  The central bank also bought $1.25 trillion of agency home-
loan securities through March 2010 in a bid to bolster the
economy.  The Treasury said March 21 that it would unwind its $142
billion of agency mortgage bonds at a faster pace, by selling as
much as $10 billion a month.  Repayments and defaults on the underlying home loans also
are shrinking the balances of the Treasury’s holdings, which the
department began accumulating after seizing  Fannie Mae  and
Freddie Mac in September 2008 as then-Treasury Secretary  Henry
Paulson  sought to stabilize markets and reduce the cost of
mortgages amid the worst global financial crisis and U.S.
housing slump since the Great Depression.  The total amount of non-agency bonds the Fed plans to sell
roughly equals the amount by which the $1.3 trillion market
contracts each month as properties of defaulted homeowners are
sold and other loans are refinanced, JPMorgan Chase & Co.
analysts said in an April 1 report.  ‘Minimal’ Disruption  “We expect the sales to be done in a slow orderly process
with minimal market disruption,” partly because the Fed said it
would set “reserve” prices for specific bonds and won’t sell
the securities below that level, the New York-based analysts led
by  John Sim  and Ed Reardon said in the report.  The New York Fed said last month that it would publish
monthly updates on the AIG-related assets it holds and a list of
the securities sold. It also will give quarterly updates on
proceeds and the total amount purchased by each counterparty,
according to the statement. Three months after the last of the
investments is liquidated, the Fed plans to disclose who bought
individual securities and at what price.  Auction Cover Prices  The Fed sold 42 of 52 bonds offered this week, it said. The
second-best bids, or so-called covers, for the securities ranged
from at least as low as about 20 cents on the dollar to at least
as high as “low 90” cents, according to three investors who
received the information from dealers. They declined to be
identified because the data wasn’t public.  The lowest cover bid may have been for a junior-ranked bond
created by  Wells Fargo & Co . in 2006 and backed by subprime and
home-equity loans, according to the investors and data compiled
by Bloomberg. About 40 percent of loans underlying those bonds
are at least 60 days delinquent, the data show.  The highest amount paid in today’s auction may have gone
for a senior security created in 2005 by Nomura Holdings Inc.
and backed by mostly adjustable-rate mortgages made with limited
documentation, according to the people and Bloomberg data. More
than 34 percent of that debt was at least 60 days past due,
Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  