-- 
New Jersey Wants Christie and Democrat Lawmakers, Poll Shows

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-04-06T09:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/new-jersey-wants-christie-and-democrat-lawmakers-poll-shows.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie 
gets a positive job rating from more than half of the state’s
voters, according to a new poll.  Fifty-one percent of the state’s voters said they approve
of the way the Republican governor is handling his job,
according to a  Fairleigh Dickinson University  poll released
today. Forty-one percent said they disapprove, according to the
survey.  Two-fifths said they want the  Democratic Party  to retain
control of the Senate and Assembly in November when all 120
legislators stand for reelection.  “What the numbers show is that there is no way to make
Christie’s strengths translate easily in the elections,” said
 Peter Woolley , director of the school’s PublicMind polling
institute in a telephone interview. “The results remain to be
seen.”  The poll follows the decision April 4 by a panel that
redrew the state’s legislative districts in line with the 2010
census and adopted a Democratic-backed proposal that may enable
Democrats to retain their majority.  More than half of public-employee households said they want
Democrats to stay in control while those without a public worker
were split in favor of Republicans 39 percent to 37 percent.
Christie, 48, has proposed reducing pension benefits to close a
$54 billion deficit in the fund and wants to force government
workers to pay 30 percent of health-care premiums.  Almost two-thirds of voters, 64 percent, said the state
should hold the line on spending even if it leads to program
cuts, while 26 percent said the state should raise taxes if
needed to support state programs.  The poll of 711 registered voters statewide was conducted
by telephone between March 29 through April 4, and has a margin
of error of plus or minus 4 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in  New Jersey  at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  