-- 
NFL Case Judge Offers Mediation to Help Settle Player-Owner Labor Dispute

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   B e t h   H a w k i n s
-- 
2011-04-07T00:58:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/nfl-players-brady-brees-ask-u-s-judge-to-block-a-lockout-by-team-owners.html
National Football League  players and
owners, embroiled in a dispute over a new labor contract, got an
offer from a judge to send the case to federal mediation.  U.S. District Judge Susan Richard Nelson in St. Paul,
 Minnesota , after hearing attorneys argue today for five hours
over an NFL owner-imposed labor lockout, told lawyers for each
faction they should return to the bargaining table and that the
court would be willing to assist them in reaching an agreement.  “Both sides are at risk. This is a good time to come back
to the table,” the judge said. “This is really a matter to be
resolved, in my view, with the services of the federal court.”  Nelson said she wouldn’t decide, possibly for weeks,
whether to issue a player-sought order forcing the owners to end
the lockout. During the lockout, players aren’t paid and teams
can’t practice, sign new players or make trades.  Super Bowl-winning quarterbacks  Tom Brady , Drew Brees and
 Peyton Manning , plus groups of current and retired pro football
players, first asked Nelson to bar the owners from imposing the
lockout in a lawsuit filed March 11.  Draft Scheduled  Owners of the NFL’s 32 teams declared the lockout after
negotiations to create a new collective bargaining agreement
failed and the NFL Players Association on March 11 said it would
no longer function as a union.  The labor dispute involves the formula by which the New
York-based league and its players would divide about $9 billion
in annual revenue. The NFL draft of college players is still
scheduled to start April 28.  Two antitrust lawyers who aren’t involved in the case said
in separate phone interviews that the type of mediation
contemplated by the judge is an informal process aimed at
forging a consensus.  “Mediators are not interested in accomplishing justice.
They just want to get the parties to agreement,” said Robert Schwinger, a partner in New York-based Chadbourne & Parke LLP.  Court mediators are often attorneys and retired judges who
will gather the parties in a single room to present their
positions then separate each side for isolated discussions with
the goal of discovering areas of agreement, said antitrust
lawyer Bruce Hoffman in the Washington office of Richmond,
Virginia-based Hunton & Williams LLP.  “Mediation is not a terribly formal process,” he said.  ‘Shuttle Diplomacy’  Schwinger called it “shuttle diplomacy,” where the
intermediary’s objective is “to figure out two zones that the
sides can live with that intersect.”  The league and players are also at odds over health-care
provisions, a rookie salary cap and whether to extend the season
to 18 games from 16. Talks collapsed weeks after the Super Bowl
championship game drew the largest television audience in U.S.
history.  “The NFL calls on the union to return to negotiations
immediately,” the league said in a March 11 statement. “NFL
players, clubs, and fans want an agreement.”  “We are here to get your honor to lift the illegal lockout
so that these players can go back to work,” James Quinn, an
attorney for the players, told the judge. “They’ve given up the
right to file grievances, the right to strike. They don’t even
have health insurance for their families because the NFL has cut
that off.”  “The NFL has a long history of violating federal antitrust
law in an effort to minimize its labor costs,” the players said
in their March 11 complaint.  Wage Reductions  The lockout is meant to force them to agree to massive wage
reductions and anticompetitive restrictions, they said.  Arguing that the dispute is the purview of federal labor
regulators, the league has asked Nelson to deny the players’
request for a court injunction. NFL lawyers have called the
players’ disavowal of their union a legal sleight of hand.  “One party to a collective bargaining relationship cannot,
through its own tactical and unilateral conduct, instantaneously
oust federal labor law or extinguish another party’s labor law
rights,” league owners said in a court filing.  David Boies , the league’s attorney, reiterated that point
as he addressed the court today.  “The question is not whether the union exists today. It is
whether this case grows out of a labor dispute,” Boies said.
“The question is do you flip a switch and immediately the
antitrust exemption is gone? The union says yes, and we say
no.”  Labor Rights  “The players have chosen to use their antitrust rights
over their labor rights,” their attorney, Quinn, told the
judge.  The antitrust exemption to which Boies referred was
specific to collective bargaining talks and not to unique to pro
football, the non-party antitrust lawyer Hoffman said in his
phone interview.  Labor unions are exempt from antitrust laws that otherwise
prohibit collusion between those who would otherwise be
competitors that results in restraint of trade, he said. Courts
balanced that labor exemption by deeming management to be exempt
too while the parties are crafting an agreement.  Disavowing the union allowed the players to sue the NFL
“for doing all the things they were just bargaining over, and
get the court to resolve the issues that had just been on the
table,” he said.  U.S. appellate courts have not expressly said how much time
is required between abandonment of a collective-bargaining
effort and accusing management of antitrust violations from
which it was previously shielded, said Hoffman.  He said his “gut reaction” is that there must be some
minimum time between which an attempt to bargain collectively
ends and an antitrust lawsuit can begin.  “It stands the non-statutory exemption on its head if the
players can de-certify, sue and re-certify,” their union, he
said.  The case is Brady v. National Football League, 11-cv-00639;
the retiree and rookie case is Eller v. National Football
League, 11-cv-00748, U.S. District Court, District of Minnesota
( St. Paul ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Hawkins in St. Paul, Minnesota, at 
 Hawkins@visi.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  