-- 
Nigeria Debt Fund Amcon Sells $134 Million of Bonds

-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a   a n d   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 
2011-04-07T14:52:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/nigeria-s-asset-management-corp-sells-bonds-at-11-8-yield-chapel-says.html
(Corrects amount of debt bought in third paragraph of story
first published on April 6.)  Asset Management Corp. of  Nigeria 
sold 20.7 billion naira ($134 million) of bonds as part of a
plan to raise 3 trillion naira to clear up the banking
industry’s debt burden.  The notes were priced to yield 11.8 percent, Mustapha
Chike-Obi, managing director of the company, known as Amcon,
told reporters today in Abuja, the capital. “This is probably
the end of the non-performing loans problem,” he said. Amcon,
established last year, offered 30 billion naira of bonds in a
sale that is part of a 3 trillion-naira debt-raising program.  Amcon has so far bought about 2.04 trillion of bad debt in
a first series of bond issues aimed at clearing up a financial
crisis that prompted the  Central Bank  of Nigeria to fire eight
chief executives of lenders in 2009 and bail out the industry
with 620 billion naira.  “The days of heavy provisioning are now behind us and
there’s potential for some moderate write-back this year” by
the West African nation’s banks, Adesoji Solanke, a Lagos-based
banking analyst at Renaissance Capital, said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “A clear line has indeed been drawn
under the crisis.”  The 20.7 billion-naira bond is part of a series of 1.7
trillion naira of debt issued today. The bonds are the only
portion of the series that are publicly priced, Amcon Managing
Director Mustapha Chike-Obi said April 1.  Second Series  A second series of bonds totaling 1.3 trillion naira will
be sold to make the lenders the central bank bailed out capital-
neutral, according to  Renaissance Capital .  The 11.8 percent yield on the debt “is somewhat below
expectations,”  Samir Gadio , a London-based emerging-market
strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd., said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “The yield on Amcon bonds is likely to
pick up in the secondary market” as  interest rates  rise to curb
quickening inflation, he said.  The central bank raised its benchmark interest rate by one
percentage point, the second increase this year, to 7.5 percent
on March 22. Inflation was 11.1 percent in February, above the
bank’s 10 percent target.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Nwanma in Lagos at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net ;
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  