-- 
North Korea Jamming South Korea GPS Systems, U.S. Commander Says

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-04-06T20:10:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/north-korea-jamming-south-korea-gps-systems-u-s-commander-says.html
North Korea  has been jamming
global-positioning-satellite signals used in South  Korea  for
military and commercial purposes, the top U.S. commander on the
peninsula said today.  “We have seen North Korea use GPS jammers” in
northwestern South Korea and officials have “called on the
North to stop,” Army General Walter Sharp, commander of U.S.
Forces Korea,  told the House Armed Services Committee. He did
not elaborate.  In his answer to a question posed by Arizona Republican
Representative Trent Franks, Sharp became the first U.S.
official to publicly confirm  allegations  of jamming made by
South Korean officials last month.  “There are signals coming out of North Korea that
interfere with the actions that are going on in  South Korea ,
both on the civilian and military sides,” Sharp said in brief
remarks to Bloomberg News after the hearing.  Separately, Sharp, in the annual congressional hearing on
the status of the 28,500 U.S. forces in Korea, said the U.S. and
the Republic of Korea have developed a series of “firm”
military responses for any new North Korea attacks.  Sharp said he was confident that the range of responses,
short of an all-out war, wouldn’t “force an uncontrollable
escalation from South Korea’s perspective.”  A North Korean mini-submarine is believed by South Korean
and U.S. officials to have sunk the warship Cheonan in March
2010. In April 2010, authorities detained two North Koreans whom
they suspected were assassins on a mission to kill North Korea’s
most senior defector. North Korea shelled Yeonpyeong island in
November, precipitating another crisis.  Additional Attacks  “I do worry about additional attacks under consideration”
by the North’s leadership, Sharp said today.  Almost 70 percent of North Korea’s ground forces remain
staged within 90 kilometers (about 56 miles) of the
demilitarized zone that marks the north-south dividing line
since the  Korean War  ended in an armistice in 1953.  Sharp said North Korea has a ballistic missile inventory
that currently exceeds 800 weapons capable of reaching “targets
from  Japan  to Guam to the Aleutian Islands” in Alaska.  “The regime continues to invest in research and
development of an ICBM capability that could threaten the
continental U.S.,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in  Washington  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 