-- 
NRC Thinks Japan Unit Pressure Vessel Damaged, Markey Says

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r   a n d   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 
2011-04-06T19:01:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/nrc-thinks-japan-unit-pressure-vessel-damaged-markey-says-2-.html
The  Nuclear Regulatory Commission 
thinks the reactor in unit 2 of Japan’s disabled power plant got
so hot it “probably melted through the reactor pressure
vessel,” U.S. Representative Edward Markey said.  Martin Virgilio, the agency’s deputy director for reactor
and preparedness programs, told reporters after a House hearing
today that the commission doesn’t think the “core has
breached,” which would let radiation escape. The commission
gets reports several times a day from agency staff in Japan and
none mentioned a breach, he said.  The pressure vessel is one line of defense preventing a
larger radiation leak from Fukushima Dai-Ichi’s crippled
reactors, where workers have sought to reconnect power to
provide a steady supply of water.  “After you lose the vessel, then you are down to one final
barrier, that’s the containment,” Virgilio told reporters.  Markey, a Massachusetts Democrat, has pressed for new
safety regulations in response to the crisis in  Japan , triggered
by the 9-magnitude earthquake and resulting tsunami on March 11.
Virgilio said workers have yet to stabilize the damaged
facility.  Giselle Barry, a spokeswoman for Markey, said information
on the status of the unit 2 reactor came from correspondence
between his staff and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.  Markey and Virgilio spoke at a House Energy oversight and
investigations subcommittee hearing today on the Japan crisis.  NRC Report  Virgilio said he wasn’t aware of an agency report, cited by
the New York Times, that said water used to keep fuel from
overheating at the Japanese plant makes containment vessels more
vulnerable to rupture amid aftershocks that have rattled the
region since March 11.  The report raises the possibility of explosions inside
containment structures from the release of hydrogen and oxygen
in the seawater pumped into the reactors, according to the
Times. The assessment doesn’t speculate on the risk of new
explosions or damage from an aftershock, events that may lead to
a more serious release of radiation from the nuclear core, the
newspaper reported.  The NRC report, dated March 26, offers a “snapshot” of
what U.S. experts considered possible conditions inside the
station, the agency said today in a statement. It isn’t a
reflection of the agency’s “understanding of the current
situation,” according to the statement.  The agency offered recommendations to  Tokyo  Electric Power
Co., owner of the crippled plant, which pursued “an alternative
set of strategies to control the plants,” according to the
statement.  Peach Bottom Risks  Republicans on the committee today said nuclear  power
plants  are safe, as Democrats said accident models developed by
the commission raised questions about the Peach Bottom power
plant west of Philadelphia.  The analysis showed a two-day loss of power at Peach Bottom
would put the plant within an hour of a meltdown, said
Representative Diana DeGette, a Colorado Democrat. The model
raises “grave questions about our nation’s preparedness to
address reactor accidents,” she said.  Representative Brian Bilbray, a California Republican, said
living along a coast was more dangerous than being near a
nuclear power plant, given the deaths caused by the tsunami
after the 9-magnitude earthquake.  Deaths in Japan exceeded 12,500 as of today with more than
15,000 people missing, according to  website  of the  National
Police Agency  in Tokyo. None of those deaths have been linked to
radiation releases, Bilbray said.  Representative Tim Murphy, a Pennsylvania Republican, said
Peach Bottom is few hundred feet above  sea level  and wouldn’t
suffer water damage from a tsunami, which wiped out power
systems at Fukushima, triggering the crisis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  