-- 
Polkomtel Bidders Reduced to Five, Deputy CEO Kilian Says

-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 
2011-04-06T16:02:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/number-of-polkomtel-bidders-falls-to-5-from-7-deputy-ceo-says.html
Polkomtel SA’s number of bidders
dropped to five from seven as the owners try to fetch more than
$5 billion for  Poland ’s second-largest mobile phone company, its
deputy chief executive officer said.  “It may be good news for the sale process,” Krzysztof Kilian told reporters in Warsaw today. The lower number may mean
bidders have joined forces to offer more, he said, adding that
he didn’t know which of the bidders pulled out. Kilian said
March 11 that three strategic and four financial investors were
bidding.  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN) ,  Sweden ’s biggest phone company, said today
it is still in the race. Private-equity companies Kohlberg
Kravis Roberts & Co.,  Apax Partners  Worldwide LLP and Providence
Equity Partners Inc. were among the seven bidders, one person
told Bloomberg last month.  Telenor ASA (TEL)  and Polish billionaire
Zygmunt Solorz-Zak, who invests in media, telecommunications and
power, were shortlisted, Gazeta Wyborcza newspaper said March 5.  Polkomtel’s owners, which include  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , oil
refiner PKN Orlen SA, copper miner  KGHM Polska Miedz SA (KGH)  and
power utility PGE SA, are seeking to sell their stakes in the
first half. The 2008 sale by  Denmark ’s TDC A/S of a 20 percent
holding provides the 3.7 billion-euro ($5.3 billion) minimum
valuation, KGHM said in November.  Final Offers  Management will start meetings with potential investors
next week and they have until May 6 to place final offers,
Kilian said.  Telenor CEO Jon Fredrik Baksaas today declined to comment
on the Polkomtel auction. Solorz-Zak is still interested in the
company, spokesman Tomasz Matwiejczuk said by phone today.
Spokesmen for KKR, Apax Partners and Providence Equity Partners
couldn’t immediately be reached for comment.  TeliaSonera, which has units in  Finland ,  Norway , Denmark,
Latvia, Lithuania and  Estonia , wants to transfer its experience
in building mobile broadband and data services if it wins
Polkomtel. The company was the first to offer Apple Inc.’s
iPhone in the region and currently sells smartphones to nine out
of 10 handset customers in Sweden, boosting its mobile data
revenue.  Polkomtel, operator of the Plus brand, has more than 14
million customers for basic voice and third-generation wireless
services. It competes with Polska Telefonia Cyfrowa, owned by
 Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , and  France Telecom SA (FTE) ’s Orange.  Royal KPN NV, the largest Dutch phone company, said today
it isn’t interested in Polkomtel. “The timing is not right,”
incoming Chief Executive Officer Eelco Blok told reporters in
The Hague.  Warsaw-based Polkomtel, which reported 1.11 billion zloty
($400 million) of net income on sales of 7.67 billion zloty last
year, expects 2011 earnings to be “similar,” CEO Jaroslaw Bauc
said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net 
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  