-- 
Oakland A's Owner Wolff Seeks $1.8 Billion From Hotels as Sales Considered

-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 
2011-04-06T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/oakland-a-s-owner-wolff-seeks-1-8-billion-return-on-hotel-deals.html
Lew Wolff, co-owner of the Oakland
Athletics baseball team, began acquiring luxury hotels in the
1990s, when they were considered a risky investment. Now he may
be selling as rivals are buying properties.  Maritz, Wolff & Co. , the Los Angeles-based company founded
in 1994 by Wolff and Philip “Flip” Maritz, has cut its
portfolio to nine hotels, including  Manhattan ’s  Carlyle , from
almost 50 a decade ago. The closely held firm is seeking to
return another $500 million to investors in the next four years.  “We don’t have any of the pressure that public companies
have,” Wolff said in an interview. “We have time to find
legitimate buyers at a price we wouldn’t necessarily pay
ourselves. That makes it a good deal.”  The 76-year-old investor is considering selling as hotel
values begin to recover from their recession slump. Prices
peaked at about $126,000 per room in 2007 then plunged 39
percent to a low two years ago, according to New York-based
research company  Real Capital Analytics Inc.  The average price
climbed to more than $160,000 a room in last year’s fourth
quarter because of a surge in luxury-hotel transactions.  Even with the increase in values, it’s too soon to be a
seller of lodging properties, said  Patrick Scholes , a New York-
based analyst with FBR Capital Markets.  “After what we’ve just come through, for the most part
it’s probably better to be buying at this point than selling,
because we’re still early in the price appreciation of hotels,”
he said.  Contrarian Investor  Wolff, also co-chairman of real estate investment trust
 Sunstone Hotel Investors Inc. (SHO)  and part owner of a soccer team,
has long made contrarian investment decisions -- in lodging and
in the  sports world , his business partner said.  “Lew and I would rather zig when others are zagging,”
Flip Maritz, 50, said in a Feb. 22 interview in  Beverly Hills ,
California. “There are so many buyers, REITs or pension funds
that are looking to deploy money. We’d rather be the sellers at
this point than the buyers.”  Maritz and Wolff, both  St. Louis  natives, met in 1990, when
they were introduced by a mutual friend. Wolff had been
president of the real estate division of movie studio Twentieth
Century Fox, while Maritz was working in office-building leasing
in Northern California.  One of their first investments together was in sports, not
lodging. In the early 1990s, the owners of the  St. Louis Blues 
were considering moving the National Hockey League team out of
the city. The two men participated in a group to acquire the
Blues and keep it in town.  Called the Mayor  “Lew said, ‘I like hockey,’ and called the mayor to
discuss the possibility of buying the team,” said Maritz, who
is also managing director at  Palo Alto , California-based real
estate investment firm Broadreach Capital Partners.  The duo’s first luxury hotel investment was the 1994
acquisition of the  Ritz-Carlton in St. Louis , which was
financially troubled. The purchase paved the way for Maritz
Wolff to become one of the biggest luxury-hotel owners in the
U.S., with stakes in 49 properties at its peak in 2001.  “I had never been in the hotel business,” Maritz said.
“For both of us, it was a pretty big leap.”  The investment in luxury hotels seemed contrarian at a time
when high-end properties were viewed by many investors as too
risky after real estate values had plummeted following the
savings-and-loan bust of the 1980s, Maritz said.  Gap Family  John Fisher -- son of  Gap Inc. (GPS)  co-founder Don Fisher, who
died in 2009 -- and his family have been investors in Maritz
Wolff since its formation. The Fishers have a majority stake in
the Oakland A’s and also co-own the  San Jose Earthquakes  soccer
team with Wolff.  “Lew sees things far ahead of most other people,” said
the 49-year-old Fisher, who helps manage his family’s fortune,
in a telephone interview. “He likes to pretend he’s an old man
but, in truth, Lew operates on a very entrepreneurial and
forward-looking basis.”  Wolff, who has lived in the same two-story Tudor home in
the Westwood section of  Los Angeles  for 40 years, employs a
full-time driver and has his own  Citation  jet for flying to make
deals and visit the Oakland A’s offices. He and his wife Jean
have a daughter and two sons, one of whom works on sports-venue
developments for Wolff.  Maritz Wolff, whose properties include the  Park Hyatt
Aviara  near  San Diego , has a total return target of $1.8 billion
by about 2015, Flip Maritz said. That would be 3.2 times the
original investment, according to the two men. By 2007, the
company sold more than $1.1 billion of hotels. It has had an
internal rate of return greater than 30 percent a year,
according to Maritz.  Guarantee ‘Good’ Returns  “We were always looking to buy the best product in each
market, like the Four Seasons in Austin,” Wolff said. “We felt
buying those kind of hotels would guarantee us good returns.”  Sales of lodging properties in the Americas are likely to
jump as much as 25 percent this year to $13 billion, buoyed by
REITs and foreign investors seeking to deploy cash, brokerage
Jones Lang LaSalle Hotels said in January. A rebound in U.S.
business and leisure travel is attracting hotel investors.  Revenue per available room, or revpar, in the top 25 U.S.
markets rose to $68.89 in the first two months of 2011 from
$62.90 a year earlier, according to  Smith Travel Research Inc. 
of Hendersonville,  Tennessee .  Any of the duo’s remaining nine properties, including the
upscale Carlyle on Manhattan’s Upper East Side, may be sold
should an offer prove attractive.  ‘No Emotional Ties’  “I have no emotional ties to any property,” Wolff said.
“They are inanimate objects. That’s the only way we can be fair
to our long-term investors who trust us to do what’s best.”  Maritz Wolff has received numerous calls from potential
buyers for the Carlyle, whose cash flow never dropped below $10
million annually during the recession, Flip Maritz said. The
188-room hotel boasts views of the Manhattan skyline, features
“fine antiques” in many rooms and provides “lush velour terry
child-sized” bath robes and slippers for its younger clientele,
according to its  website .  “We get approached a lot, and when you get approached, you
think about things,” Maritz said.  For properties like the Carlyle, it’s reasonable for Maritz
Wolff to consider offers, said Scholes, the FBR analyst.  “Where it may make sense to sell is if you’re in a gateway
city with a trophy hotel that doesn’t need significant  capital
expenditures ,” he said. “Bidding for those has been crazy.”  Lagging Ballpark Attendance  Wolff has faced challenges over the past several years with
both his hotel and sports investments. During the recession, the
lodging industry slumped to its lowest levels since the Great
Depression.  Failed attempts to build a new baseball stadium have
perpetuated lagging attendance for the  Oakland A’s , in which he
purchased a stake in 2005 at the suggestion of Major League
Baseball Commissioner Bud Selig. He and Wolff were Pi Lambda Phi
fraternity brothers in the 1950s at the  University of Wisconsin,
Madison .  There are similarities between owning a baseball team and
owning a hotel, Wolff said.  “In one case we sell rooms and in the other case we have
seats to sell,” he said. “Every time a guest has a good
experience they hopefully become an annuity and continue to come
back to the ballpark or to the Carlyle.”  Theory of ‘Moneyball’  Wolff said he has drawn inspiration for both hotel
purchases and his team investment from “Moneyball,” the 2003
book by  Michael Lewis  that detailed the Oakland A’s use of such
player data as slugging percentage to judge performance.  “The theory of ‘Moneyball’ is that by looking at certain
statistics you can make a better subjective decision,” Wolff
said. “All decisions in baseball are ultimately subjective.
Similarly, the best way to buy quality properties is to not buy
20 hotels and raise money for that, but to view each one
individually.”  Billy Beane, general manager of and an investor in the A’s,
said Wolff is as deeply involved in the team as he is in the
management of his hotels.  “Since Lew became managing partner, since that day, quite
frankly, I talk to him at least once a day,” Beane said in a
telephone interview. “But that can probably be misleading
because Lew is giving me a lot of autonomy.”  Fairmont  San Francisco   In the lodging business, among Maritz Wolff’s challenges
has been the  Fairmont San Francisco , a hotel the company owns in
partnership with Saudi billionaire Prince Alwaleed bin Talal.
The investors have been unable to get city permission to convert
a portion of the Nob Hill hotel into a residential tower and
Maritz Wolff is considering selling its stake, Flip Maritz said.  “We’re at a point where we feel, maybe let the next guy
figure it out,” he said.  Maritz Wolff has had to contend with natural disasters as
well. In the West Indies, the company had to rebuild the  Four
Seasons Resort Nevis  twice after hurricanes damaged the
property. After the third storm, the company handed the hotel
over to its lenders.  The Fairmont New Orleans was “pretty much devastated” by
 Hurricane Katrina , Wolff said. Wolff Maritz used insurance
proceeds to pay back all the lenders in full and then sold the
hotel to a local developer, who rebuilt it as the  Roosevelt New
Orleans , Wolff said.  Beanie Babies  Most of Maritz Wolff’s hotel dispositions have been more
lucrative.  In 1999, Maritz Wolff merged its 50 percent share in
Fairmont Hotels & Resorts with Canadian Pacific Hotels.  Fairmont 
today manages more than 60 hotels, including the Plaza in  New
York . In 2004, Fairmont bought Maritz Wolff’s share for $75
million, about triple the original investment, Maritz said.  In 2000, Maritz Wolff sold the Four Seasons Biltmore in
 Santa Barbara ,  California , to H. Ty Warner, the creator of the
Beanie Babies line of toys, for $150 million. The company had
bought the property five years earlier for less than $50
million.  Even as Maritz Wolff -- which also holds a 50 percent stake
 Rosewood Hotels & Resorts , the Dallas-based operator of 19
properties -- mulls additional sales, a partnership between the
two men is “very likely” to continue because they enjoy each
other’s company, Maritz said.  “I don’t fool myself that I can continue indefinitely,”
Wolff said. “But I have too many friends that retire and a year
later they call me for any extra  office space . That’s why I
don’t plan on stopping.”  Says Beane, the A’s general manager, of Wolff: “He keeps
on reminding me that he’s 76 but, frankly, I think his gray hair
is a con.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  