-- 
Obama Meets Again With Reid, Boehner to End Budget Fight

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-04-08T00:27:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/obama-summons-lawmakers-to-white-house-in-bid-to-avert-shutdown.html
President  Barack Obama  and the top
two leaders in Congress met again tonight at the White House in
an effort to end a stalemate over the federal budget that
threatens a U.S. government shutdown.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said this afternoon “I’m
not very optimistic” about the prospects for a last-minute deal
which lawmakers said has been stymied by disputes over abortion
and environmental regulations, as well as how much to cut in
spending.  “We’re not there yet,” House Speaker  John Boehner , an
Ohio Republican, said after meeting earlier today with Obama and
Reid. Obama also met last night with the two lawmakers.  Without an agreement or temporary spending extension by the
end of the day tomorrow, when current spending authority
expires, all non-essential government services would close.  Senator  Dick Durbin  of  Illinois , the chamber’s second-
ranking Democrat, said shortly before tonight’s meeting that
much of the dispute has focused on policy provisions Republicans
want in a budget bill that would bar funding for Planned
Parenthood, which provides abortions.  “We think still we can reach an agreement on the money,”
said Durbin. “It’s hard to believe that they’re going to shut
down the government because they can’t get a vote on family
planning and Planned Parenthood. Honest to goodness, was that
what the last election was about?”  Boehner’s View  Boehner said both sides had moved a bit farther apart in
talks today. He said differences over the level of spending cuts
remain, as well as clashes over the so-called policy riders.  “There are far more than the one provision that is holding
up any agreement, I can tell you that,” the speaker told
reporters before the afternoon meeting at the White House.  Obama today threatened to veto a temporary funding measure
that  House Republicans  passed, 247-181. It would keep the
government operating through April 15, impose $12 billion in
budget cuts and fund the Pentagon for the remainder of the
fiscal year, which ends Sept. 30.  While Boehner said there is “no responsible reason” for
Democrats to oppose it, Reid said the bill is a “nonstarter”
in the Senate. His objections include a policy directive in the
bill that would limit abortion funding in the  District of
Columbia .  The talks aim to forestall the first government shutdown
since another Democratic president --  Bill Clinton  -- clashed 15
years ago with congressional Republicans who also were
attempting to scale back  government spending .  $40 Billion  Boehner is seeking cuts of $40 billion from current
spending, which is $7 billion higher than the $33 billion plan
lawmakers had been working to assemble. While he has said he
wants cut to come from programs that get funding through the
annual appropriations process, Reid wants some cuts through
programs such as Pell Grants and transportation programs that
have mandated funding levels that extend over several years.
That would shield many domestic programs from deeper cuts.  The Obama administration said it is preparing for a partial
shutdown of government operations if Congress doesn’t act. That
would suspend Internal Revenue Service audits and federal small-
business loan processing, as well as government guarantees of
some mortgages.  Military,  law enforcement ,  homeland security  and other
personnel deemed essential would remain on duty, though their
paychecks would be delayed until the government reopens.
Government programs that have an effect on the economy would be
among the operations hit, including a suspension of loan
guarantees by the  Federal Housing Administration .  No Pay  About 800,000 “non-essential” federal workers face the
prospect of getting no pay for time lost to the political
impasse. While they’ve ultimately received back pay after
previous shutdowns, it’s up to Congress to “determine whether
‘non-excepted’ employees receive pay for the furlough period,”
according to a  U.S. Office of Personnel Management website 
providing guidance and information on furloughs.  Elected officials, including Obama, Boehner and Reid, would
be paid as usual during a shutdown unless Congress changes the
law. Soldiers, law enforcement officers and other government
employees whose jobs are deemed essential would continue to
work, yet wouldn’t get paychecks until the budget standoff is
resolved.  ‘Real Effects’  “A shutdown could have real effects on everyday
Americans,” Obama said last night at the White House after his
meeting with Boehner and Reid. “It means that hundreds of
thousands of workers across the country suddenly are without a
paycheck. Their families are counting on them being able to go
to work and do a good job.”  Democratic Senators  Joe Manchin  of  West Virginia  and  Ben Nelson  of  Nebraska  have said they would forgo paychecks during
the impasse.  Representative Jim Moran, a Virginia Democrat whose
district lies just outside Washington, said he planned to
conduct a town hall meeting tonight to advise constituents who
are federal workers on how to prepare for a shutdown. He urged
them to conserve cash, warning a shutdown could stretch into
next week and, with so much concern over the deficit, lawmakers
may not agree to provide federal workers with back pay.  “They’re going to have to conserve their money to make
their mortgage and car payments -- they’re going to have to
determine what are the essentials,” he said. He estimated
100,000 workers in the  Washington  area could be furloughed.  In a memorandum to senior staff, the Senate’s chief
employment lawyer said non-essential aides who are furloughed
could face criminal penalties of up to $5,000 or two years in
prison if they work during a shutdown. Blackberries and laptops
might have to be confiscated to make sure that doesn’t happen,
said the memo, which also suggested that committees set up a
phone tree or other off-line means of notifying staffers when
they could come back to work.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  