-- 
Obama Says U.S. Needs ‘Sustained’ Strategy to Develop Energy

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-04-06T22:50:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/obama-says-u-s-needs-sustained-strategy-to-develop-energy-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  said the U.S.
must have a “sustained” energy policy that doesn’t fluctuate
with gasoline prices and is focused on developing alternatives
to fossil fuels.  A long-term strategy will make the U.S. less dependent on
imported oil and will boost economic growth by developing new
energy industries, Obama told employees at a wind-turbine
manufacturing facility of the U.S. unit of  Spain ’s Gamesa Corp.
Tecnologica SA in Fairless Hills, Pennsylvania.  “This whole issue of energy is on the minds of a lot of
people right now partly because you’re paying more at the
pump,” Obama said. “There’s no magic formula” for driving
gasoline prices down.  Obama has made energy a main topic over the last two weeks
in an effort to a focus on the economy and other domestic issues
after spending much of his time dealing with the unrest in the
Middle East and North Africa.  With gasoline prices on the rise as a result of the tumult
in oil-producing countries such as  Libya , the president is
seeking to ease concerns about the effect of rising energy costs
on the pocketbooks of U.S. consumers.  It also gives him an opportunity to defend his budget
priorities as Republicans in Congress are pushing to slash
federal spending to address a deficit forecast to hit $1.6
trillion this year and $1.1 trillion in fiscal 2012.  Spending on Research  Obama argues the U.S. can’t forgo spending on research and
development of alternative fuel sources. In the 2012 spending
plan he sent to Congress in February, Obama proposed increasing
the Energy Department’s budget by 12 percent to $29.5 billion,
including funding for development of new nuclear reactors and
energy research.  The U.S. had just slipped to third place behind China and
 Germany  in a ranking of nations funding renewable power in 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  The president also addressed the impasse over the fiscal
2011 budget, saying Democrats have agreed to cut as much as
Republicans initially sought. The two sides haven’t reached an
accord and some government operations may have to shut down if
one isn’t reached by April 8.  “We’ve agreed to a compromise but somehow we still don’t
have a deal,” he said. A shutdown would hurt the economy, he
said.  The budget and the showdown with Republicans didn’t come up
when Obama later took questions from workers at the Gamesa
plant.  Cut Oil Imports  Obama, who officially began his re-election campaign this
week, was in the swing state of  Pennsylvania  today to highlight
his call for the U.S. to cut oil imports by a third by 2025 from
the 2008 level of 11 million barrels a day.  The theme is likely to be repeated by the president and his
surrogates for the next several months as Obama gears up his re-
election campaign. The pump prices for regular-grade gasoline,
averaged nationwide, was $3.685 yesterday compared with $2.828 a
year ago, according to the  AAA national gasoline survey .  Crude oil for May delivery gained 49 cents to $108.83 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest
settlement since Sept. 22, 2008. Prices are up about 20 percent
this year.  After leaving Fairless Hill, Obama flew to  New York  where
he addressed an annual awards ceremony of the National Action
Network, a civil rights advocacy organization led by the
Reverend Al Sharpton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Fairless Hills, Pennsylvania at 
4304 or  jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  