-- 
Lockhart Not ‘Leaning’ to Fed Policy Tightening By Year-End

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-04-06T12:39:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/lockhart-not-leaning-to-fed-policy-tightening-by-year-end.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
President  Dennis Lockhart  said he doesn’t expect the central
bank to tighten U.S. monetary policy by the end of the year with
inflation still low and the economic recovery fragile.  “I wouldn’t rule it out entirely, but at this stage I
personally am not leaning in the direction of thinking that is
absolutely required,” Lockhart told reporters during an Atlanta
Fed conference at Stone Mountain,  Georgia .  Fed policy makers at a meeting last month differed over
whether to begin removing record stimulus in 2011, according to
minutes of their March 15 meeting released yesterday. “A few
participants indicated that economic conditions might warrant a
move toward less-accommodative monetary policy this year; a few
others noted that exceptional policy accommodation could be
appropriate beyond 2011,” according to the minutes.  “The rest of this year in the scheme of things is a fairly
long time,” Lockhart told reporters. “You have to remain
somewhat flexible, and the recent history of macro events has
reinforced that view with  Japan  and with the Middle East
developments.”  Lockhart said he backs plans by the Fed to complete as
planned $600 billion in U.S. Treasury purchases by the end of
June. The  Federal Open Market Committee  reiterated last month
that the central bank would finish the purchases, while saying
the U.S. economic recovery “is on a firmer footing.”  ‘Very Compelling Reasons’  “I don’t think we reverse that commitment or change that
commitment without some very compelling reasons to do so,”
Lockhart said. “I don’t see those conditions existing at this
time. My outlook also doesn’t anticipate such a rapid change in
conditions that a change in policy is required at this time.”  Since the March FOMC meeting, reports showed the labor
market and inflation have picked up while  consumer confidence 
slipped and new home sales dropped to a record low. Some
regional Fed presidents who were skeptical of stimulus have
talked about the need to tighten credit, and Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has yet to indicate his preference for the Fed’s next
move.  “I think the economy is still laboring under some
uncertainty and that creates still a degree of fragility in how
this recovery is evolving,” Lockhart said.  The recent rise in inflation must be viewed in light of the
fact that the FOMC wanted inflation to accelerate last year,
when the pace in the rise of prices was slowing and deflation
seemed to be a growing threat, Lockhart said.  “This was something we were looking to have happen and in
fact it has happened,” he said.  ‘Somewhat Below’  Core inflation , which excludes food and energy prices, is
“still somewhat below what I think is the informal target that
is the consensus of the committee of around 2 percent.” The
inflation rate including food and energy is rising because of an
increase in commodity prices, Lockhart said, adding he expects
those prices to “level out.”  Inflation expectations, while increasing on a short-term
basis, are likely to be more stable long term, he said.  In releases since the Fed meeting, the Commerce Department
reported that the Fed’s preferred price measure, which excludes
food and fuel, was up 0.9 percent from a year earlier in
February, the most since October. Including all items, prices
rose 1.6 percent, compared with a 1.2 percent 12-month increase
through January, the biggest monthly increase since December
2009.  Lockhart, 64, a former Georgetown University professor, has
led the Atlanta Fed since 2007. Fed presidents rotate voting on
monetary policy with Lockhart next voting in 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in  West Palm Beach , Florida, at 
1310 or  smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  