-- 
Oil Trades Near 30-Month High After NATO Escalates Air Strikes Over Libya

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-04-07T00:37:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/oil-trades-near-30-month-high-after-nato-escalates-air-strikes-over-libya.html
Oil traded near a 30-month high in
 New York  as NATO escalated its air campaign over Libya, and amid
renewed concern that conflict in other energy-exporting
countries may curtail supplies.  Futures rose 0.5 percent yesterday as the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization planned to fly 198 missions over Libya,
following 155 on April 5. Prices have advanced 28 percent since
anti-government protests began Feb. 15 in Libya, cutting the
nation’s output by two-thirds. Elections in  Nigeria  this month
may lead to a decrease in production from  Africa ’s top crude-
producing country.  “The focus is still on the events” in the Middle East and
Africa, said  Ben Westmore , a minerals and energy economist at
National Australia Bank Ltd. in Melbourne. “There is a little
bit of upward momentum in  oil prices  at the moment. If the
conflict continues in the region, it’s possible that prices
could push higher.”  Crude oil for May delivery was at $108.58 a barrel, down 25
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
at 10:12 a.m. Sydney time. Yesterday, the contract rose 49 cents
to $108.83 a barrel, the highest settlement since Sept. 22,
2008. Prices are up 26 percent from a year ago.  Brent oil for May settlement traded at $121.95 a barrel,
down 35 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.
Yesterday, the contract increased 8 cents to $122.30, the
highest settlement since Aug. 1, 2008.  Brent Premium  The European benchmark traded at a premium of $13.47 a
barrel to U.S. futures yesterday. The difference between front-
month contracts in  London  and New York surged to a record $19.54
on Feb. 21 as unrest spread in the Middle East and North Africa
and stockpiles climbed at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point
for New York futures. The spread averaged 76 cents last year.  An Energy Department report yesterday showed supplies at
Cushing slipped 16,000 barrels to 41.9 million in the week ended
April 1. Stockpiles in the previous week were at the highest
level since the government began keeping records in 2004.  Total U.S. crude inventories climbed 1.95 million barrels
to 357.7 million, the Energy Department report showed. A 2
million-barrel gain was projected, according to the median
estimate of 15 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey.  China , the world’s second biggest oil consumer behind the
U.S., will raise retail gasoline and diesel prices today after
global crude costs increased, according to the National
Development and Reform Commission.  Weigh on Prices  “U.S. crude stockpiles weighed on prices,”  Mark Pervan ,
head of commodity research at Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. in  Melbourne , said in an e-mailed note. China’s
increase in gasoline and diesel prices suggests “that second-
round inflation effects have materialized, spreading from food
inflation to daily necessities.”  U.S. gasoline inventories fell 357,000 barrels to 216.7
million last week, the Energy Department said. They were
forecast to drop by 1.9 million barrels, the survey showed.
Supplies of distillate fuel, a category that includes heating
oil and diesel, rose 195,000 barrels to 153.5 million.  Nigerian output may decline after the presidential election
on April 16, curbing supplies of the light, low-sulfur grades
that have already been curtailed because of fighting in Libya.
More than 50 people have died in election-related violence since
July, according to Amnesty International, while sectarian
clashes in the north have claimed the lives of at least 200
since Dec. 24.  Libya  Unrest  The conflict in Libya is the bloodiest among uprisings that
have toppled the presidents of Tunisia and Egypt and spread to
Bahrain,  Iran , Yemen and Oman. Rebels who are aiming to end
Muammar Qaddafi’s 42-year rule and forces loyal to the Libyan
leader have been waging battles between the Qaddafi stronghold
of Sirte and the rebel-held city of Ajdabiyah.  Rebels were preparing to make their first international oil
sale as the tanker Equator, which can carry 1 million barrels,
departed the Marsa al Hariga terminal near the port of Tobruk in
rebel-held eastern Libya, according to ship-tracking data
compiled by Bloomberg.  A British air strike has hit the Sarir oil field in Libya,
killing three guards, al-Arabiya reported, citing Libya’s Deputy
Foreign Minister.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jane Lee in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 jalee@bloomberg.net  