-- 
Holcim Uses Cut-Price Insurance to Lure Homebuilders in Emerging Markets

-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 
2011-04-06T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/holcim-uses-cut-price-insurance-to-tap-emerging-markets-clients.html
Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) , the world’s second-
biggest cement maker, is teaming up with an insurance company to
sell building materials and homes to Indonesians as it seeks to
benefit from the future middle class in the emerging markets.  So-called microinsurance costs the customer as little as 67
cents a year and is designed to help low-income individuals
limit their financial risk when they buy construction material
or fertilizers. The policy offered by Holcim of Jona,
Switzerland, pays out when a house is struck by an earthquake or
tsunami, allowing first-time home builders to protect themselves
when they make a large investment.  “Microinsurance is seen as a way to get in and get market
share,” said Jim Roth, co-founder of LeapFrog Investments, a
$135 million Mauritius-domiciled private equity fund that plans
to invest in microinsurers. “Today’s low income person is
tomorrow’s middle class.”  Those policies have the potential to generate annual
premiums of as much as  $40 billion , said Zurich-based Swiss
Reinsurance Co., the world’s second-biggest reinsurer. Current
policies cover about 135 million people, Lloyd’s of  London 
estimated in March.  Swiss manufacturers are using microinsurance to tap the
growing buying power of the 4 billion emerging-market consumers
living on less than $4 a day. Those companies are leveraging the
products of the financial-services industry to build projects,
said Brandon Mathews, head of the emerging consumers division at
 Zurich Financial Services AG (ZURN) , the country’s biggest insurer.  Cheese Fondue  “This is why Swiss companies are at the forefront of
microinsurance,” Mathews said. “Finance and foreign relations
are as Swiss as cheese fondue.”  Syngenta AG, the world’s biggest maker of agricultural
chemicals, sponsors a  foundation  that sells insurance covering
Kenyan smallholder farmers against drought. The policies, sold
jointly with  Kenya ’s UAP Holdings Ltd. through shops that also
supply seeds, fertilizers and chemicals, are linked to data from
weather stations and pay out when rainfall is below average.  The Syngenta initiative, which aims to sell 50,000 policies
this year, received European Union funding to extend the program
across all of Kenya’s farming regions.  “That is important because farmers do not trust insurance
companies,” said Fritz Brugger, a senior project adviser for
the Basel, Switzerland-based foundation. “They have the
impression that insurance companies take their money, but don’t
pay out.”  Tsunami Coverage  Holcim sells insurance covering earthquakes, tsunamis,
fires, windstorms and riots for the homes it builds in
 Indonesia . The policies, underwritten by Zurich Financial, are
free to homebuyers for the first year and annual premiums cost
less than $10 after that, said Peter Gysel, a Holcim spokesman.  The cut-price insurance “adds to the attractiveness of the
entire package for potential clients,” Gysel said. “From this,
we hope to generate higher revenue.”  Zurich Financial had sold microinsurance policies to about
2.2 million low-income customers as of the end of September, up
47 percent from a year earlier. The Zurich-based insurer
declined to disclose the premiums, saying they’re “immaterial”
to earnings.  “Insurers are working very hard to develop a mass market
in the long term,” said Paul Holley, a reverend in Nyon,
 Switzerland , and coordinator at the Anglican Church’s Health
Network, which sells microinsurance in India and Tanzania. “I
don’t necessarily think it’s a bad thing, but insurance is not
philanthropy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  