-- 
Old GM Bondholders Getting Shares in New General Motors May Depress Price

-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 
2011-04-07T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/old-gm-bondholders-getting-shares-in-new-general-motors-may-depress-price.html
Investors holding bonds in the old
General Motors Corp. will receive stock and warrants for shares
in the new  General Motors Co. (GM)  on April 21, an action that
analysts said may depress the stock price.  Old GM, now known as  Motors Liquidation Co. (MTLQQ) , will give
bondholders 150 million shares in GM and warrants to buy 272.8
million more shares. A trust holding the shares will distribute
them directly to bondholders’ brokerage accounts on or after
April 21, according to a memo distributed Wilmington Trust Inc.,
a money-management firm hired by the creditors’ committee.  Some of the bondholders are retail investors who may sell
the shares and briefly sink GM’s stock price, said David Whiston, an analyst with Chicago-based Morningstar Inc.
Investors have probably priced in the dilution, so it won’t
change GM’s long-term value, he said. He has not changed his $48
a share valuation based on the release of shares to bondholders.  “I would think that there will be more selling than
holding,” Whiston said. “Any sell-off in GM is a buying
opportunity. Long term, I think the company is positioned very
well.”  Bondholders were promised stock and warrants in the new GM
to make up for some of their loss during the predecessor
company’s government-backed bankruptcy. The warrants given to
bondholders for new GM stock are already in the money, according
to a report by  Kirk Ludtke , senior vice president of CRT Capital
Group, a money management firm in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Warrant Release  When  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  releases the warrants and stock
through a trust, bondholders will collectively get 136.4 million
warrants for one share each at $10 a share and an equal amount
at $18.33 a share, said Wilmington Trust, which is based in
Wilmington,  Delaware .  Owners of old GM bonds must notify Wilmington Trust by
April 15 to get stock and warrants on April 21. If they notify
Wilmington later, the bondholders will get their shares and
warrants at a later date.  Currently, Motors Liquidation has about $30 billion in
claims allowed by  bankruptcy court , of which about $29 billion
are from the bondholders, said a person familiar with the
matter.  There may be as much as $8.8 billion in additional claims
that could be allowed by the court, Ludtke said in the report.  If the approved unsecured claims exceed $35 billion, GM
would have to issue up to 30 million shares, Jim Cain, a company
spokesman, said in an interview. GM doesn’t expect claims to
reach that amount, the company said in a regulatory filing.  The bonds issued by General Motors Corp. should recover
about 30 cents on the dollar when the shares are distributed
later this month, Ludtke said in a telephone interview. He
expects GM’s share price to rise to $40, which implies a
recovery rate of about 40 cents on the dollar, Ludtke said.  GM shares were unchanged at $32.87 yesterday in New York
Stock Exchange Composite trading, down from a high of $38.98 on
Jan. 7. The shares were priced at $33 for the initial public
offering in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at   korland@bloomberg.net . 