-- 
Optimer to Market Dificid Drug With Cubist Pharmaceuticals

-- B y   R o b   W a t e r s
-- 
2011-04-06T20:50:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/optimer-to-co-market-dificid-drug-with-cubist-pharmaceuticals.html
Optimer Pharmaceuticals Inc. (OPTR)  said it
will co-market its fidaxomicin drug with  Cubist Pharmaceuticals
Inc. (CBST)  after winning U.S. panel backing for the antibiotic that
fights a deadly bacterium often caught in hospitals.  Fidaxomicin, to be sold as Dificid, may be approved May 30
by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and become San Diego-
based Optimer’s first product.  Fidaxomicin was developed to treat Clostridium difficile, a
hard-to treat strain of bacteria that causes intestinal
infections and is often contracted in hospitals. Optimer will
pay Cubist $15 million a year, starting with the first sales of
Dificid. Cubist may earn up to $17.5 million over the two years
if certain sales levels are reached, the companies said today in
a statement.  “Cubist has a proven track record and well established
relations with all stakeholders involved in the antibiotics
space,” Pedro Lichtinger, Optimer’s president and chief
executive officer, said in the statement.  Cubist, based in Lexington,  Massachusetts , sells as its
only product the antibiotic Cubicin, which is taken by injection
to treat skin and blood infections and was approved in 2003. It
had U.S. sales last year of $600 million.  Cubist said in January it would boost its sales force to
180 to market Cubicin to hospitals. Optimer plans to hire 100
sales representatives to promote Dificid to the 1,100 hospitals
that get 70 percent of C. difficile cases, the companies said in
the statement.  Optimer fell 81 cents, or 5.9 percent, to $12.99 at 4 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading. Cubist
gained $1.28 cents, or 4.4 percent, to $30.29 after announcing
April 5 it had settled a patent dispute with Teva
Pharmaceuticals Industries Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Waters  in  San Francisco  at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 