-- 
Mortgage Broker Groups Fail to Block Federal Reserve Loan Commission Rule

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-04-06T23:12:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/mortgage-brokers-fail-to-block-federal-reserve-loan-commission-rule.html
Two trade groups representing
mortgage brokers lost their attempt to stop a  Federal Reserve 
rule that limits commissions for loan officers in mortgage
transactions from taking effect.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  Washington  yesterday denied
emergency motions from the National Association of Mortgage
Brokers and the National Association of Independent Housing
Professionals. They argued the rule unfairly penalizes brokers,
who won’t be able to pay loan officers in consumer-paid
transactions.  “Appellants have not satisfied the stringent standards
required for a stay pending appeal,” the court said in its
order dissolving an earlier ruling preventing the Fed rule from
being implemented on April 1.  The appeals court said the challenge can continue while the
rule is in place. The court ordered briefs to be filed next
month.  U.S. District Judge Beryl Howell on March 30 rejected the
groups’ request to stop the provision from taking effect,
finding that public policy interests outweighed harm to the
mortgage-broker industry.  “The board has reasonably concluded that the rule will
further public policy interests, a position that is further
supported by the Dodd-Frank Act, which also includes provisions
restricting certain loan-compensation practices,” Howell said
in a 46-page opinion, referring to the law that overhauled the
financial industry last year.  Separate Lawsuits  The trade groups filed separate lawsuits and appeals
challenging the regulation.  The Fed rule, part of the central bank’s effort to fix
weaknesses in mortgage finance, is aimed at preventing mortgage
originators from receiving more compensation for selling home
loans with higher  interest rates .  Susan Stawick, a spokeswoman for the Federal Reserve,
declined to comment.  Marc Savitt, president of the National Association of
Independent Housing Professionals, said he was disappointed by
the ruling. Savitt said his group will continue with the appeal.  “The consumer is going to be an even bigger loser than
small business,” Savitt said. “I can’t give discounts anymore
to my borrowers.”  Mike Anderson , government affairs chairman of the National
Association of Mortgage Brokers, said his group will move
forward with the appeal while also seeking a legislative
solution.  ‘Continue to Fight’  “We will continue to fight,” Anderson said. “We believe
we’re right.”  The Dodd-Frank law, the most sweeping overhaul of financial
regulation since the 1930s, created a new Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau that must also write regulations to prevent
loan officers from steering customers into costly loans.  The cases are National Association of Mortgage Brokers v.
Board of Governors of the  Federal Reserve System , 11-5078 and
National Association of Independent Housing Professionals Inc.
v. Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 11-5079,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 