-- 
U.S. Mortgage Applications Fall on Less Refinancing

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-04-06T17:52:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/mortgage-applications-in-u-s-decrease-2-on-less-refinancing.html
Mortgage applications in the U.S.
fell for a second straight week, led by a decline in
refinancing.  The  Mortgage Bankers Association ’s index of loan
applications decreased 2 percent in the period ended April 1.
The Washington group’s refinancing measure dropped 6.2 percent,
while the purchase gauge rose 6.7 percent to the highest level
this year.  Thirty-year fixed  mortgage rates  hovering near 5 percent
are likely depressing refinancing, since most people able to get
credit have already applied, the group said. The increase in
purchases reflected a jump in demand for government loans as
buyers tried to beat an April 18 increase in Federal Housing
Administration insurance premiums, Michael Fratantoni, MBA’s
vice president for research and economics, said in a statement.  “The pool of borrowers who have both the incentive and the
ability to qualify for a refinance continues to shrink,”
Fratantoni wrote. Overall, purchase volume “remains relatively
low by historical standards,” he said.  The average rate on a 30-year fixed loan rose to 4.93
percent last week from 4.92 percent the prior week, the mortgage
bankers group said. Borrowing costs have increased since
reaching 4.21 percent in October, the lowest since the group’s
records began in 1990.  The average rate on a 15-year fixed mortgage decreased to
4.14 percent from 4.16 percent.  The share of applicants seeking to refinance a loan
declined to 61.2 percent from 64.3 percent.  The group’s purchase index in government-loan market jumped
10 percent, while its conventional-loan gauge rose 4 percent.  Home Sales Weak  Recent housing figures have shown the industry is
struggling. Sales of existing homes decreased 9.6 percent to a
4.88 million rate in February. Distressed properties accounted
for 39 percent of all sales, and 33 percent were cash
transactions, the National Association of Realtors said March
21.  Purchases of new homes fell in February to the lowest level
on record, the Commerce Department said on March 23. Builders
started construction on 479,000 dwellings at an annual pace last
month, almost matching the record-low 477,000 rate reached in
April 2009, the Commerce Department said March 16.  KB Home (KBH) , the Los Angeles-based homebuilder that targets
first-time buyers, yesterday reported a wider first-quarter loss
as revenue and new orders plunged amid slumping demand.  “There is still uncertainty as to when a sustained housing
recovery may occur,” said  Jeffrey Mezger , president and chief
executive officer of KB Home. Still, “as this year’s spring
selling season has commenced, we are encouraged by the higher
traffic we experienced in the first quarter compared to a year
ago,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  