-- 
Mosel Bridge Opposed by Riesling Makers Is Put on Hold as Greens, SPD Talk

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-04-06T08:02:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/mosel-bridge-opposed-by-riesling-makers-is-put-on-hold-as-greens-spd-talk.html
Construction on a bridge over the
Mosel Valley will be put on hold after the  Green Party  made
gains in a regional vote, raising hopes among winemakers and
campaigners that the project will be scrapped completely.  The 1.7-kilometer-long, 160-meter-high road bridge is part
of a 330 million euros ($469 million) project. It was planned to
straddle the unspoiled middle Mosel, halfway between the
villages of Uerzig and Rachtig, by 2016. The area has the
highest concentration of prime “erste Lage” vineyards, the
German equivalent of the French “grand cru.” Riesling grapes
have grown there for 2,000 years.  After trebling its share of the vote in the March 27
regional election in Rhineland-Palatinate, the Green Party is
holding talks on forming a government with the Social Democrats,
who previously ruled alone. The Greens won 15.4 percent, while
the  Social Democrats  won 35.7 percent of the vote.  “Both parties agreed at this meeting that no more
contracts on the Mosel Bridge should be awarded during the
coalition talks,” the regional Green Party said in a  statement 
on its website. They also agreed that construction on the feeder
roads along the Mosel should cease for that period, it said.  The Green candidate in the constituency where the bridge is
planned, Jutta Blatzheim-Roegler, has campaigned against it for
13 years, saying it will deter tourists and ruin the landscape.
She won a seat in the regional parliament in last week’s vote.  The bridge and road that leads to it will feed traffic
through a forest that provides water to the steep, slate-soil
slopes that make wines from the vineyards distinctive.  Winemakers and connoisseurs say the digging and tree
removal will affect water supply to the vines, as well as
disrupting the tranquility and views of one of the most
picturesque parts of  Germany .  “We welcome this pause in the construction and very much
hope it leads to a permanent stop,” said Sarah  Washington , a
British resident of Uerzig who has coordinated the protest
 campaign . “We look forward to discussing alternatives.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 