-- 
Ouattara Resumes Ivory Coast Offensive as Gbagbo Talks Fail, France Says

-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   J a s o n   M c L u r e
-- 
2011-04-06T15:36:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/ouattara-resumes-ivory-coast-offensive-as-gbagbo-talks-fail-france-says.html
Talks over the exit of  Laurent Gbagbo , the former leader of Ivory Coast, ended unsuccessfully
and forces loyal to President-elect  Alassane Ouattara  renewed
their attack on pro-Gbagbo military units, said Alain Juppe,
France’s foreign minister.  “The negotiations started yesterday with Mr. Gbagbo have
failed,” Juppe said in Parliament today. “They have been
interrupted and the forces of Mr. Ouattara have restarted their
offensive.”  Gbagbo began discussing his departure from the world’s
largest cocoa producer yesterday, after French and United
Nations forces destroyed most of his army’s heavy weapons.
French and UN troops are not participating in the current
attack, Juppe said.  The 65-year-old remains holed up in a bunker under his
residence, which was surrounded by the pro-Ouattara Republican
Forces fighters. Gunfire broke out in the neighborhood and near
the Agban military camp in Deux-Plateaux district at about 6:30
a.m. and continued through the day.  “Fighting is ongoing,” Meite Sindou, a spokesman for the
fighters, said by phone. “The talks last night didn’t bring any
results.”  Disputed Election  The Republican Forces launched an offensive last week from
bases in northern  Ivory Coast  after a four month stalemate
following the country’s disputed Nov. 28 presidential run-off.
Gbagbo, who draws much of his support from the south, refused to
accept the results, alleging electoral fraud. The UN, U.S.,
 African Union  and European Union all recognized Ouattara as the
winner.  “It’s not a game of cat and mouse, he’s just the mouse
now,” said Pierre Schori, a former Swedish foreign minister who
headed the UN mission in the country between 2005 and 2007.
“Even if he won’t admit it, I think he is negotiating his exit,”
he said by phone from  Stockholm  today.  Cocoa for July delivery climbed $43, or 1.4 percent, to
$3,036 a metric ton at 10:50 a.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in  New
York . Prices for the chocolate ingredient have risen as much as
34 percent since the disputed election, advancing to a 32-year
high of $3,775 a metric ton on March 4.  Ivory Coast’s defaulted dollar-denominated bond gained 6.7
percent to 54.938 cents on the dollar at 2:56 p.m. in Abidjan,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mass Killings  The renewed attack comes as  Luis Moreno-Ocampo , chief
prosecutor of the  International Criminal Court , said he was
“very concerned” about reports of mass killings in western
Ivory Coast, according to a  statement  posted to the court’s
website. Moreno-Ocampo’s office said it would continue to
“collect information on alleged crimes committed there by
different parties to the conflict.”  Gbagbo yesterday accused  France  of intervening in the
crisis, saying it “entered directly into war against the Ivory
Coast.”  While he would be willing to leave Ivory Coast “if my
departure brings peace to my country,” Gbagbo said in an
interview with the Paris-based LCI TV news channel, it’s “far
from proven” that it would end the conflict. There’s “no
agreement on the political front,” Gbabgo said, and he still
believed Ouattara didn’t win the president election.  Gbagbo said his actions weren’t those of a “kamikaze”.  “I like life,” he told LCI. “This is not the voice of a
martyr.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net  and Jason McLure in Accra at 
797 or  jmclure@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  