-- 
Mouse Stem-Cell Discovery May Lead to Blindness Therapies, Researchers Say

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-04-06T17:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/mouse-stem-cell-discovery-may-lead-to-blindness-therapies-researchers-say.html
Embryonic  stem cells  in mice formed
themselves into an eyelike structure, a discovery that may lead
to treatments for blindness, researchers said.  Scientists coaxed the stem cells by adding proteins and a
gene usually expressed in the eye field and retina, according to
a report today in the journal  Nature . The structure, called an
optic cup, then began to form, and soon was complete. In
embryos, most of the cup becomes the retina, the light-sensitive
membrane lining the inner eyeball.  How eyes develop  has been a continuing question for
researchers, the authors wrote. It wasn’t clear how this early
structure formed, and some scientists thought some outside force
was needed to induce it. Today’s study shows that stem cells can
create the optic cup on their own. Being able to develop eye
precursors may lead to new treatments for degenerative eye
diseases, the authors said.  “What we’ve been able to do in this study is resolve a
nearly century-old problem in embryology,”  Yoshiki Sasai , one
of the study’s authors, and a researcher at the RIKEN Center for
Developmental Biology in Kobe,  Japan , said in a statement. The
development, which shows organized tissues can be created from
stem cells, “may open new avenues toward applications in
regenerative medicine.”  Most forms of untreatable blindness involve photoreceptor
cells, those that sense light, wrote  Robin Ali , a geneticist at
the Institute of Ophthalmology at  University College London  in
an accompanying editorial. Mice studies show that transplanting
photoreceptor precursor cells can repair an adult retina, Ali
wrote. The major challenge for researchers has been to find
enough cells for transplant, and today’s discovery may make them
more widely available.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 