-- 
How I Learned to Love a U.S. Government Shutdown: Caroline Baum

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 
2011-04-06T23:20:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/how-i-learned-to-love-a-u-s-government-shutdown-caroline-baum.html
What if the U.S. government shut
down and no one noticed?  Even worse (or better, depending on one’s point of view),
what if all federal workers went on furlough and the public
realized there were benefits, not just costs, to smaller
government?  The sixth stop-gap spending bill, known as a continuing
resolution, expires tomorrow. In the event Democrats and
Republicans can’t agree on a budget for fiscal year 2011, which
is more than half over, the federal government, or parts of it,
will shut down.  Essential services will be maintained, including the
distribution of Social Security checks. Employees involved in
the military, national security and law enforcement will stay on
the job. Non-essential workers will be  furloughed .  Neither party seems eager to halt government operations
because a) they don’t want to shoulder the blame, as Republicans
did in 1995; or b) they don’t want to be subject to
repercussions (read: voter backlash) in 2012.  President  Barack Obama  says a shutdown would devastate the
economy at a time when job growth is struggling to reach a
cruising altitude. What’s more, it would further reduce
confidence in government.  Guess what? It can’t go much lower. The  approval rating for
Congress  dropped to 18 percent last month, near the lowest in
the Gallup poll’s 37-year history of tracking the trend.  So stop all the negativity and look at the bright side. A
government shutdown would give federal employees a well-deserved
respite from those grueling 9-to-5 workdays. Even essential
workers deserve a break.  My advice is to stop worrying and learn to love a U.S.
government shutdown. Just imagine all the benefits…  Count the Ways  President Obama would be able to work on his golf game
without the risk of appearing disengaged at a time when the
country is involved in an It’s-Not-a-War in  Libya .  The U.S. State Department would have time to formulate a
coherent foreign policy rather than deal with each Middle East
uprising on an ad hoc basis. It can start by defining the
criteria it uses to differentiate between good dictators ( Saddam Hussein ,  Hosni Mubarak ,  Muammar Qaddafi ) and bad dictators
(Saddam Hussein, Hosni Mubarak, Muammar Qaddafi).  CIA operatives would have time to hunker down with Rosetta
Stone software and become fluent in Arabic so that next time
they can provide valuable intel before a region ignites.  A government closure would give the investigators at the
Securities and Exchange Commission an opportunity to read and
respond to information provided by whistleblowers like  Harry Markopolos .  Light Reading  The residential real estate market might get some breathing
room to heal itself without an array of federal programs that
create artificial demand for housing, prop up prices and delay
the day of reckoning for underwater homeowners.  A government shutdown would reduce commuter traffic on the
Beltway. Air traffic controllers could catch up on their sleep.
Tourists would face shorter lines at  Washington ’s monuments,
although they’d have to sneak in.  No lawmakers means no new laws, regulations, targeted tax
breaks, exemptions or loopholes. Members of Congress would have
much-needed time to read the health-care bill they passed last
year, holding then-House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  to her word when
she said: “We have to pass the bill so you can find out what is
in it.”  Bigger Means Smaller  A government shutdown would give family-values Republicans
more time to spend with spouses and children (preferably their
own). Democrats favoring income redistribution (yours, not
theirs) could use the time to consult with their accountants so
they can take advantage of the loopholes they write into the  tax
code . Members of both parties would have more time for
 fundraising .  Too-big-to-fail banks would get a taste of what it’s like
to swim without a life preserver should a crisis strike while
the government is shuttered.  Media companies should see improved profits as paid
advertisements replace the endless obligatory coverage of the
president and Congress bloviating.  Finally, a shutdown would produce such an outcry and
warnings of dire consequences from the media, activists and
politicians, it might just get open-minded folks to reflect on
how the government got so big and why it’s so intertwined in our
lives.  If that’s the first step to a smaller government, then by
all means, shut it down.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  