-- 
Toyota May Be Downgraded by Moody’s After Japan Earthquake

-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 
2011-04-06T09:08:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/toyota-motor-units-ratings-may-be-downgraded-by-moody-s.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s long-term
credit rating may be cut by Moody’s Investors Service after
 Japan ’s strongest earthquake on record disrupted parts supply
and shuttered factories.  While Toyota’s plants haven’t suffered significant damage,
the March 11 disaster disrupted the shipping of about 500 types
of components, Moody’s said in a statement. Moody’s currently
rates Toyota Aa2, its third-highest investment grade.  “Toyota’s financial and operating performance will worsen
in the aftermath of the March 11 earthquake and tsunami and the
resulting supply chain disruptions,” Moody’s analysts Curt Beaudouin and Robert Young in  New York  wrote in a report dated
yesterday.  The 9-magnitude earthquake and tsunami dealt a renewed blow
to Toyota, which is also aiming to recover from record recalls
last year for problems related to unintended acceleration. High
levels of quality-related spending to recover from the recalls
are also weighing on Toyota’s operating margins, Moody’s said.  Shiori Hashimoto , a spokeswoman for the Toyota City, Japan-
based automaker, declined to comment on the possible downgrade.  Moody’s move comes after  Standard & Poor’s  cut the
carmaker’s long-term debt rating by one level on March 4, seven
days before the earthquake.  The automaker rose 0.2 percent to close at 3,265 yen in
 Tokyo  trading. The stock has fallen 11 percent since the day
before the earthquake.  CDS, Bonds  The cost to protect Toyota debt against non-payment for
five years rose 0.7 basis points to 76.6 basis points today as
of 4:11 p.m. in Tokyo, according to data provider CMA. Credit-
default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or cash equivalent if the issuer fails to
comply with debt agreements.  The spread on the 1.77 percent Toyota bond maturing in 2019
over Japanese  government bonds  increased to 20 basis points
yesterday from 15 basis points on March 10, the day before the
quake.  The company, Japan’s most indebted manufacturer, said today
that it won’t resume production at most of its Japan plants next
week. Toyota is unlikely to restart auto production at the
plants because of damage to some suppliers caused by the
earthquake and tsunami, it said before the downgrade.  140,000 Units  Toyota, the world’s largest carmaker, has said the company
lost 140,000 units of production from March 14 to March 26,
citing a shortage of electronic parts, rubber and plastics. The
carmaker resumed output of three models at two factories on
March 24, prioritizing hybrids models including the Prius. All
18 plants in Japan were halted until then. Toyota built 3.28
million cars in Japan in 2010.  Toyota’s operating profit may be cut by at least 100
billion yen ($1.2 billion) in the fiscal year ended March 31 and
as much as 200 billion yen this fiscal year, according to  Koji Endo , an auto analyst at Advanced Research Japan in Tokyo. Any
impact on production overseas will further damp earnings, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  