-- 
Toyota’s ‘Geek-Mobile’ Prius Hybrid Hits 1 Million Mark in U.S. Deliveries

-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 
2011-04-06T06:15:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/toyota-s-geek-mobile-prius-hybrid-hits-1-million-mark-in-u-s-deliveries.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s Prius, the
world’s best-selling hybrid auto, hit a U.S. milestone with
cumulative sales in that market reaching 1 million vehicles as a
supply disruption looms following  Japan ’s record earthquake.  Sales of the gasoline-electric hatchback, first sold in the
U.S. in 2000, reached the volume goal on April 5, Toyota said
late yesterday at a conference in  La Jolla ,  California . On April
1, the company said it only had an 18-day supply of the Prius
for U.S. dealers, due to increased demand because of rising fuel
prices and reduced shipments from Japan following last month’s
earthquake and tsunami.  “As we see fuel prices starting to rise again, it has
accounted for more than 60 percent of hybrid passenger cars so
far this year,”  Bob Carter , group vice president of Toyota’s
U.S. sales unit, said in a statement.  Demand for the Prius, rated by the U.S. government as
delivering a combined 50 miles per gallon in city and highway
driving, typically tracks U.S. gasoline prices, jumping when
fuel costs rise and falling as pump prices dip. In the first
three months of 2011, U.S. sales of the Prius grew 51 percent to
42,779, more than the Toyota City, Japan-based company sold in
the same period of 2007, its best year ever for the car.  U.S. gasoline prices have risen 20 percent since the start
of the year to an average of $3.69 a gallon as of April 4,
according to AAA’s Daily Fuel Gauge report.  Toyota rose 0.2 percent to 3,265 yen as of the 3 p.m. close
of trading in  Tokyo . The stock has lost 11 percent since March
10, the day before the temblor.  ‘Geek-Mobile’  Production of the Prius in Japan stopped after the 9-
magnitude quake and resumed last week at the company’s Tsutsumi
plant. Toyota hasn’t said how quickly it will be able to make up
the lost production.  Following the start of U.S. sales of the Prius early this
decade, the car’s cost relative to conventional gasoline-engine
autos and its complexity were criticized by executives including
the former General Motors Corp.’s Bob Lutz and Nissan Motor Co.
Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn , who suggested it didn’t
make economic sense for most consumers.  Dan Akerson, GM’s chief executive, told reporters at a
December 2010 briefing in  Washington  that the Prius is a “geek-
mobile,” and that he “wouldn’t be caught dead in a Prius,”
according to a report by the  Associated Press .  Volt, Leaf  “I guess there are a lot of geeks out there,” Toyota’s
Carter said in a March 3 interview.  Late last year, GM began selling its plug-in hybrid Volt
sedan and Nissan added the all-electric Leaf hatchback, seeking
to displace the Prius as the vehicle of choice for consumers
seeking to curb gasoline consumption and emissions linked to
global warming.  U.S. sales of the Volt this year through March totaled
1,210 cars, while Nissan delivered just 452 Leafs to U.S.
drivers.  While Toyota has added several hybrid sedans and light-
truck models in the U.S. and Japan, none have sold in volume
approaching that of the Prius, said  Eric Noble , president of The
Car Lab, an industry research company in Orange, California.  “The success of the Prius is ephemeral enough that it has
so far eluded competitors -- and even Toyota itself,” Noble
said in an interview. “The car is probably the most studied
model line in the industry of the past 10 years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  