-- 
Pacific Rubiales Says New Block to Add Oil Output This Year

-- B y   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 
2011-04-06T16:39:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/pacific-rubiales-says-new-block-to-add-oil-output-this-year-1-.html
Pacific Rubiales Energy Corp. (PRE) , which
operates Colombia’s largest oil field, said its purchase of
assets from Etablissements Maurel & Prom SA will boost crude
production in 2011.  Pacific Rubiales will “very quickly” develop the Sabanero
oil block in Colombia, enabling production to begin at the end
of the year, President Jose Francisco Arata said today in an
interview in Cartagena.  “The idea is to grab on to resources and develop them,”
Arata said. “It’s a strategic purchase.”  Toronto-based Pacific Rubiales plans to increase investment
this year to $1.18 billion with the purchase of the blocks in
Colombia, where improved security has lured investors including
Mexican billionaire  Carlos Slim . Pacific Rubiales is aiming to
increase sales in Asia and  Europe  as its output climbs to take
advantage of higher prices there for heavy crude, Arata said.  Pacific agreed in March to pay Maurel & Prom as much as $66
million for the stakes it was acquiring in the blocks.  A share buyback plan announced today would be used when
necessary to “defend the price” of shares from speculators,
Arata said. The company said earlier that it plans to buy back
as many as 11.6 million shares.  Pacific Rubiales added 3.3 percent to C$29.06 at 12:15 p.m.
in Toronto.  Rising Production  Production at fields operated by Pacific Rubiales will rise
to 265,000 barrels a day of oil and natural gas by the end of
this year, helped by the Quifa field adjacent to Sabanero, he
said. The company’s share of the output will be about 105,000
barrels per day, which doesn’t include Sabanero production.  Total production will rise in May to 225,000 barrels a day,
from about 210,000 barrels now, Arata said. The company fell
short of that same target forecast last year at the end of 2010.  Pacific Rubiales holds a 40 percent stake in the Rubiales
field in  Colombia , which it operates. Bogota-based Ecopetrol SA
owns the remainder of the field, Colombia’s largest.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Heather Walsh in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  