-- 
Pakistan Inflation Quickens, Adding Pressure on Interest Rates

-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   F a r h a n   S h a r i f
-- 
2011-04-06T10:18:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/pakistan-inflation-quickens-adding-pressure-on-interest-rates.html
Pakistan’s inflation accelerated for
the first time in four months, adding pressure on the central
bank to raise  interest rates .  Consumer prices rose 13.16 percent in March from a year
earlier after a 12.91 percent gain in February, the  Federal
Bureau of Statistics  said in Islamabad today. The median of
eight estimates in a Bloomberg survey was for a 13.3 percent
increase.  Pakistan’s central bank kept the discount rate unchanged at
14 percent last month for a second straight meeting to support
economic growth. Inflation may further quicken as the government
this month raised domestic fuel prices by as much as 13 percent
after global oil costs soared.  “There are many factors coming in that will flare up
inflation,” Uzma Taslim, a research analyst at Alfalah
Securities Ltd. in Karachi, said before the report. “If the
inflation rate moves near the 14 percent mark, the central bank
will have to adjust its policy rates higher.”  Pakistan  central bank Governor Shahid Kardar has signaled
concern a further increase in the benchmark rate, one of the
highest in the world, will hurt growth.  The Karachi Stock Exchange 100 Index rose 0.5 percent as of
2:50 p.m. local time. The Pakistan rupee gained 0.1 percent to
85.16 a dollar.  Pakistan’s $168 billion economy, sapped by terrorism and
floods in 2010, is lagging behind as emerging markets from
neighboring  India  to  China  help lead the global economic rebound
from the deepest postwar recession.  The government forecasts the economy will expand 2.5
percent in the year through June, slower than the original
target of 4.5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 Hanwar2@bloomberg.net .
Farhan Sharif in Karachi, Pakistan at 
 fsharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  