-- 
Palestinian Harassment of Press Growing, Rights Group Says

-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 
2011-04-06T17:23:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/palestinian-harassment-of-press-growing-rights-group-says-1-.html
Incidents of harassment against
journalists in the  West Bank  and  Gaza Strip  have increased,
 Human Rights Watch  said in a  report  that urged donors to make
conditional on measures being taken to crack down on abuses.  “Palestinian security forces are becoming notorious for
assaulting and intimidating journalists who are just trying to
do their jobs,” Joe Stork, deputy Middle East director at New
York-based HRW, said in an e-mailed statement. “Both the
Palestinian Authority in the West Bank and Hamas in Gaza need to
end these blatant attacks on free expression.”  Since the 2007 takeover of Gaza by Hamas, the majority of
the harassment has concerned journalists reporting on the split
between the Palestinian Authority, which rules the West Bank,
and Hamas, according to today’s report. Hamas seized control of
the seaside strip a year after winning parliamentary elections,
ending a partnership government with  Palestinian Authority 
President  Mahmoud Abbas .  In the West Bank, security services have also targeted
journalists suspected of working on reports that may be critical
of the Palestinian Authority, HRW said.  Hamas is careful “to respect media organizations and
prevent attacks against them,” Taher al-Nounou, Hamas
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. Palestinian Authority
officials were abroad and not immediately available to comment
or didn’t answer their mobile phones.  Increased 45%  The report cited the Palestinian Center for Development and
Media Freedoms as saying the number of attacks, arrests,
detentions, arbitrary confiscations of equipment and other
violence increased 45 percent in 2010 from the previous year.  Human Rights Watch called on donors who provide financial
backing to the Palestinian Authority, such as the U.S. and
European Union, to “condition support for all Palestinian
Authority security agencies on the Palestinian Authority taking
effective steps to investigate, prosecute and punish security
officers responsible for serious abuses.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in  Tel Aviv  at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
barden@bloomberg. 