-- 
Permira to Cede Ownership of Spanish Grocer DinoSol in Debt Restructuring

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 
2011-04-06T16:31:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/permira-to-cede-ownership-of-spanish-grocer-dinosol-in-debt-restructuring.html
Permira Advisers LLP will hand over
its ownership in DinoSol Supermercados to the Spanish
supermarket chain’s creditors in a debt restructuring, three
people familiar with the matter said.  Senior lenders owed about 400 million euros ($572 million)
may agree to reduce debt at the Madrid-based company, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the terms are
private.  Budget tightening by European governments and rising costs
for raw materials could prompt a wave of defaults in 2012,
 Standard & Poor’s  said in a March 8 report. KPMG Europe LLP this
week said it hired two restructuring partners to cope with an
anticipated increase in workload as debt payment is contested.  “Financial restructuring has been a key theme of the
downturn and is likely to do so for years to come as companies
are put on to debt structures better suited to the economic
climate,” Richard Fleming, U.K. head of restructuring at KPMG
Europe LLP, said following the announcement.  A spokeswoman in  London  for private-equity firm Permira,
which oversees almost $30 billion of funds, declined to comment.
Permira bought DinoSol from Royal Ahold NV for 685 million euros
in 2004. Ahold was engulfed at the time in a scandal after
overstating profit for three years.  Permira has recouped most of its investment by loading
DinoSol’s balance sheet with debt. It first took profits in
November 2005, when DinoSol borrowed 354 million euros to
recapitalize Permira’s stake, according to Bloomberg data.
DinoSol then raised 488 million euros of leveraged loans in 2007
to pay dividends to Permira, Bloomberg data show.  Bank of Scotland Plc,  Caja Madrid  and Societe Generale SA
arranged the financings in 2005 and 2007, according to Bloomberg
data.  DinoSol reached an agreement with banks at the beginning of
2010 to loosen debt covenants and gain greater flexibility,
according to Permira’s  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  