-- 
Police Seek to Question Bank of Moscow Chief, Kommersant Says

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-04-06T11:05:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/police-seek-to-question-bank-of-moscow-chief-kommersant-says.html
Russian authorities want to question
Bank of Moscow Chief Executive Officer Andrey Borodin, who has
left the country for  London , Kommersant reported, citing
unidentified Interior Ministry officials.  Borodin is being summoned in connection with a probe into a
loan of about 12.8 billion rubles ($455 million) granted by Bank
of Moscow, the Moscow-based newspaper said today, citing the
officials.  Irina Dudukina, a spokeswoman for the interior ministry’s
investigative committee, declined to comment when reached by
Bloomberg News today. Oleg Fedorchenko, a Bank of Moscow
spokesman, said that Borodin is on sick leave and that he
doesn’t know the bank president’s exact whereabouts. Fedorchenko
declined to comment further and said he would forward e-mailed
questions to him.  The loaned funds ended up in the personal bank account of
Yelena Baturina, the wife of ousted Moscow Mayor Yury Luzhkov,
the interior ministry said in a statement on Feb. 17, after
Moscow police raided the offices of Baturina’s holding company,
ZAO Inteco.  Gennady Terebkov, a spokesman for Inteco, said he doesn’t
expect a criminal case to be opened against Baturina because she
hasn’t committed any wrongdoing.  VTB Group,  Russia ’s second-largest lender, on Feb. 22
agreed to buy the Moscow government’s controlling stake in Bank
of Moscow for $3.5 billion in the biggest acquisition by a
lender in the country. VTB also agreed to buy the 20 percent of
the bank controlled by Borodin and other managers, which would
boost its stake in the Bank of Moscow to 75 percent, Kommersant
reported March 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  