-- 
Poor Data Used to Set Wages on U.S. Jobs Added Costs, GAO Says

-- B y   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z
-- 
2011-04-06T04:00:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/poor-data-used-to-set-wages-on-u-s-jobs-added-costs-gao-says.html
Inadequate and sometimes inaccurate
data has been used to set wage rates for workers on federal
construction jobs, possibly raising costs to U.S. taxpayers,
according to congressional auditors.  Poor data collected by the U.S. Labor Department prevents
accurate calculations of the prevailing pay rate required by law
on the projects, the Government Accountability Office,
Congress’s investigative arm, said in a report to be released
today. The department “cannot have high confidence its
results” are accurate, according to the report.  Labor Department officials in many cases base the wage
rates on six or fewer workers, according to the watchdog agency.
It also has failed to periodically update the information to
assure the data represents current conditions, according to the
report.  If “prevailing wage rates are too high, they potentially
cost the federal government and taxpayers more for publicly
funded construction projects,” according to the report.  The  Davis-Bacon law , passed in 1931, requires workers on
federal construction projects to be paid at rates prevailing for
workers on similar jobs near the work site.  The 2009 U.S. stimulus law allocated about $300 billion for
federal spending on building and infrastructure projects that
would be subject to Davis-Bacon rates. About $220 billion was
spent in 2009.  “These inaccurate wage determinations may drive up the
cost of federal construction projects” and discourage
competition, Representative Tim Walberg, a Michigan Republican,
who leads a House subcommittee on worker protection.  Representative  John Kline , a Minnesota Republican and a
member of the workforce protections subcommittee, said lawmakers
aren’t sure federally funded projects paid wages that were
accurate or fair.  “We can no longer accept a system that spends taxpayer
dollars without any real accountability, accuracy or
transparency,” Kline said.  The GAO also cited a lack of transparency on how the Labor
Department determines Davis-Bacon wage rates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Holly Rosenkrantz in  Washington  at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net .  hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  