-- 
Portugal Finance Minister Calls for European Assistance, Negocios Reports

-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 
2011-04-06T19:06:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/portugal-finance-minister-calls-for-european-assistance-negocios-reports.html
Portugal needs to ask the European
Union for financial assistance, Portuguese newspaper Jornal de
Negocios reported on its website, citing Finance Minister
Fernando Teixeira dos Santos.  “It’s necessary to resort to financing mechanisms
available in the European framework in the appropriate terms for
the current political situation,” Teixeira dos Santos said in a
response to questions from the newspaper, Negocios  reported 
today on its website. The comments mark the first time that the
government has said it would need to seek aid.  Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  will make a statement at 8
p.m. local time, his office said in an e-mailed statement. The
 Finance Ministry  has no additional comment, according to an e-
mail.  Teixeira dos Santos and Socrates insisted for the past year
that the country didn’t need international aid to meet its
commitments. The government engaged in the deepest spending cuts
in three decades to narrow the budget deficit. The European
Commission hasn’t received an aid request from Portugal,
commission spokesman Amadeu Altafaj-Tardio said by e-mail after
the Negocios report.  Yields on Portuguese debt surged to record levels after
parliament rejected the government’s latest deficit-reduction
plan on March 23 and Socrates presented his resignation. The
prime minister had said that plan would prevent  Portugal  from
following Greece and Ireland in seeking emergency funds from the
European Union and International Monetary Fund.  Inverted Yield Curve  The Portuguese two-year government bond yield last week
rose above the rate on the nation’s 10-year debt for the first
time since 2006. The difference in yield that investors demand
to hold Portugal’s 10-year bonds instead of German bunds reached
a euro-era record of 544 basis points yesterday and was at 511
today. The 10-year bond yield rose to a euro-era high of 8.804
percent today.  “The country has been irresponsibly pushed toward a very
difficult situation in the financial markets,” Teixeira dos
Santos said, according to Negocios. Socrates is presiding over a
caretaker government with limited powers until June 5 elections.  The  Portuguese government  faces bond redemptions on April
15 and June 15, totaling 9 billion euros ($12.9 billion).  Default Risk  Portugal surpassed Ireland, which received a bailout in
November, as a default risk yesterday. The cost of insuring
Portuguese debt using credit-default swaps rose to 585 basis
points, signaling a 40.3 percent chance of default within five
years. A bailout for Portugal may total as much as 70 billion
euros, two European officials with direct knowledge of the
matter said last month.  The finance minister’s comments follow statements by
Portuguese bank executives urging the government to seek aid and
indicating unwillingness to invest further in government debt.  Portugal must ask for a loan from the EU “urgently,”
 Banco Espirito Santo SA (BES)  Chief Executive Officer Ricardo Salgado
said last night in an interview with TVI. An initial loan could
be as much as 15 billion euros, said the chief of Portugal’s
biggest publicly traded bank by market value.  “We have already enough Portuguese debt in our balance
sheet,” Banco Comercial Portugues SA Chief Executive Officer
Carlos Santos Ferreira said in a New York Times article
published today. A spokesman for the bank, the biggest non-state
lender by assets, confirmed the comment.  The European Commission yesterday said it wasn’t in
discussions with Portugal over a possible bridge loan. The
commission stands ready to look into any request for aid,
spokesman Altafaj-Tardio said in an e-mail.  Borrowing Costs Rise  Borrowing costs increased today at a sale of 1 billion
euros of six- and 12-month bills, the second debt offering in
five days, and came a day after Moody’s Investors Service cut
Portugal’s credit rating for the second time in three weeks. The
country paid more to borrow for six months than it costs  Germany 
for 30-year bonds.  The securities due March 2012 were sold today at an average
yield of 5.902 percent, the country’s debt agency said. Portugal
last auctioned 12-month bills on March 16, raising 1 billion
euros at an average yield of 4.331 percent. The debt agency has
scheduled bill auctions for each of the three months of the
second quarter.  “Requesting external aid is a last resort scenario,”
Socrates said in an April 4 interview with Portuguese television
station RTP. “If Portugal falls, that will weaken the euro and
 Europe .”  Slow Growth  Portugal has been punished by financial markets because its
economy has barely grown in the past decade as its  budget
deficit  soared. The country’s economy has expanded at an average
annual rate of less than 1 percent in the past decade, ranking
among Europe’s weakest growth rates. Unemployment rose to 11.1
percent in the fourth quarter, the highest since at least 1998,
as the economy contracted for the first time in a year.  Portugal reported a budget deficit last week equal to 8.6
percent of the 2010 gross domestic product, higher than the 7.3
percent the government had previously forecast. Without
accounting changes required by the EU’s statistics office, the
shortfall would have been 6.8 percent, Teixeira dos Santos said,
adding that the government was still committed to trimming the
gap to 4.6 percent this year.  Portugal has been trying to avoid requesting aid for the
first time since 1983, when it received external help from the
Washington-based  International Monetary Fund .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim Silver at 
 jsilver@bloomberg.net  