-- 
Portugal Set to Start Talks on $107 Billion Bailout as Spain Threat Eases

-- B y   J o a o   L i m a ,   J i m   S i l v e r   a n d   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 
2011-04-07T15:06:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/portugal-seeks-eu-bailout-after-yields-surge.html
Portugal  is set to start hammering
out a bailout package that may total 75 billion euros ($107
billion) as it becomes the third euro-region country to seek
European Union aid.  The Portuguese government will make a formal aid request to
the European Commission today, government minister Pedro Silva
Pereira said today at a press conference in Lisbon. The request
comes as Finance Minister Fernando Teixeira dos Santos travels
to Budapest to meet with other officials from the other 16 euro
nations near Budapest tomorrow.  Portugal is the latest nation to seek an EU-led bailout
after Greece sparked a sovereign-debt crisis that threatened to
splinter the euro region a year ago and then engulfed Ireland.
The challenge for Teixeira dos Santos will be negotiating an
interest rate on bailout loans that doesn’t strangle an economy
that’s barely grown in the past decade or spark the public
outcry that greeted Ireland’s bailout package in November.  “Clearly the view of the market was that this was
inevitable and that it was only a matter of timing even if we
still don’t know what the deal will be,” said  Julian Callow ,
chief European economist at  Barclays Capital  in  London .  No Choice  Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  said last night he had no
choice than to seek aid as the country faces 9 billion euros of
bond maturities in April and June. The yield on Portugal’s 10-
year bonds, which hit a record after Socrates resigned last
month and early elections were called, rose 6 basis points to
8.595 percent today. Portugal yesterday sold one-year notes at a
yield of 5.9 percent, 200 basis points more than Germany pays
for 30-year debt.  The euro weakened 0.2 percent to $1.4299 at 4:00 p.m. in
Lisbon today. The difference in yield between that Portuguese
10-year bonds and comparable German bonds widened 6 basis points
to 517 basis points today. The cost of insuring Portuguese
sovereign debt rose 8 basis points to 562, according to CMA
prices for credit-default swaps. The contracts earlier traded as
low as 532 basis points.  Fitch Ratings  said in a statement today that Portugal’s aid
request “will help moderate the near-term risks to macro-
economic and financial stability.”  Three Weeks  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said today that
it will take two-to-three weeks to assess a request for European
aid made by Portugal. Conditions will be attached to any bailout
granted, he said in an e-mailed statement.  The conditions and the amount of EU financial aid has not
been defined yet, government minister Silva Pereira said at a
press conference in Lisbon today.  “What we expect is that this request for financial
assistance can provide the immediate response that our economy
needs,” the minister said.  Portugal’s package is likely to be worth as much as 75
billion euros, said two European officials with knowledge of the
situation. Portugal may pay rates similar to what  Greece  is
being charged for its rescue loans, which were renegotiated last
month, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a report to clients.  Greece pays an average of 3.5 percent for the first three
years of its plan and 4.5 percent thereafter. Ireland, which is
also trying to get lower terms, currently pays an average of 5.8
percent.  Greek Rates  “We would assume that it would be lower, as Greece got a
100 basis point cut in its rate, and Ireland could have gotten
something similar if they had played ball on their corporate  tax
rate ,” said  Padhraic Garvey , head of developed-market debt at
ING Groep NV in Amsterdam.  The  Social Democrats , Portugal’s biggest opposition party,
would aim for a lower interest rate on the aid program than the
rate on the Irish package, Antonio Nogueira Leite, an adviser of
the  Social Democratic Party , said today in a Bloomberg
Television interview. The Social Democrats lead Socrates’
Socialist party in opinion polls, and elections are set to take
place on June 5.  The terms of Portugal’s bailout package must be tighter
than they otherwise would have been given the political
situation caused by the pending elections, Finnish Prime
Minister Mari Kiviniemi said.  Portugal will need about 15 billion euros to 20 billion
euros to tide it over until the country gets a new government,
Swedish Finance Minister Anders Borg said at a press conference
in Stockholm today. Sweden is “very far” from having reached a
decision on whether it will contribute to a Portuguese bailout,
Borg said. Portugal should have acted last autumn to seek
financial aid, he said.  Spain   Portugal’s announcement sparked optimism that the worst of
 Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis is over and won’t threaten Spain,
the euro region’s fourth-largest economy. The premium investors
demand to hold Spanish debt over German bunds rose 2 basis
points to 182 basis points today, and has dropped more than 100
basis points from its euro-era record in November.  Spanish Finance Minister Elena Salgado said she
“absolutely rules out” contagion from Portugal as “markets
absolutely distinguish between the two countries.”  “We do not expect any other EMU sovereign to be in need of
financial assistance,” Francesco Garzarelli, Goldman Sachs
London-based chief interest-rate strategist, in a report to
clients.  At the same time, the euro region is still threatened by
the risk that countries receiving aid won’t be able to tame
their deficits and may be forced to restructure debt.  Restructuring Risk  “The urgent question still remains whether sovereign debt
will have to be restructured, particularly in the case of
Greece,” said Torge Middendorf, an economist at WestLB in
Dusseldorf. “Should there indeed be a restructuring,  Germany ’s
banks would be hit particularly hard.”  At 12.7 percent, Greek 10-year bond yields are almost 390
basis points higher than last April before the country received
bailout funds. Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services said last week
Greece may have to restructure its debt as “there are growing
risks to the sovereign’s budgetary position.”  European governments will also be facing higher  interest
rates  after the  European Central Bank  raised its benchmark rate
a quarter point to 1.25 percent, the first increase since 2008.  The ECB has already suspended collateral conditions for all
securities guaranteed by the Greek and Irish governments and
Portuguese banks have been virtually cut off from interbank
markets. The ECB had “encouraged” Portugal to seek EU aid, ECB
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said at a press conference in
 Frankfurt  today.  Banks Gain  Banks led the gains on Portugal’s benchmark PSI-20 Index
today, with Banco Espirito Santo SA adding 5.1 percent to 3.016
euros and Banco Comercial Portugues SA advancing 3.9 percent to
61.3 euro cents.  Portugal’s bond yields surged to records this month after
Socrates resigned on March 23 when parliament rejected new
austerity measures that aimed to bring the euro region’s fourth
largest  budget deficit  within the EU’s limit of 3 percent of
gross domestic product next year.  Portugal reported a 2010 budget deficit last week equal to
8.6 percent of gross domestic product, higher than the 7.3
percent the government had previously forecast, after a change
in EU accounting rules forced it to add more than 2 billion
euros in charges to last year’s accounts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Silver in Lisbon at 
 jsilver@bloomberg.net ;
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  