-- 
Portugal’s Debt Costs ‘Unsustainable,’ Goldman's Nielsen Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-04-06T17:36:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/portugal-s-debt-costs-unsustainable-goldman-s-nielsen-says-tom-keene.html
Portugal ’s borrowing costs are
“unsustainable” after the interest paid on an auction of 1
billion euros ($1.4 billion) of  government bonds  surged, Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. Chief European Economist  Erik Nielsen  said.  “They’ve been able to raise a bit of money, but it’s still
at rates that are clearly unsustainable,” Nielsen said in an
interview from  London  on Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance
Midday” with Tom Keene today.  Portuguese bond yields have climbed to record levels since
Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  quit on March 23 following a
parliamentary rejection of proposed budget-deficit cuts. That
has fuelled speculation the country will have to follow Greece
and Ireland and agree a financial rescue package with the
European Union and the  International Monetary Fund .  Portugal needs to resort to the financing mechanisms
available in the European framework, Portuguese newspaper Jornal
de Negocios reported on its website, citing Finance Minister
Fernando Teixeira dos Santos.  “In Portugal right now, we’re in a stalemate with the
elections coming up in some months and an inability of them to
do very much about drawing up the program with EU and IMF,”
Nielsen said. So it’s a matter of “day by day and getting the
money in to get through these difficult months.”  Portuguese government bonds due March 2012 were sold today
at an average yield of 5.902 percent, the country’s debt agency
said. Portugal also sold bills due October 2011 at an average
yield of 5.117 percent. Portugal paid more to borrow for six
months than it costs Germany for 30-year bonds.  Portugal last auctioned 12-month bills on March 16, raising
1 billion euros at an average yield of 4.331 percent. It sold
550 million euros of six-month bills on March 2 at an average
yield of 2.984 percent.  “Clearly the market knows these rates are unsustainable
and rates never stay at unsustainable,” Nielsen said. “Either
they come down because of something fantastic happening or they
shoot up and eventually they have to go with” a financial
rescue, the economist said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  