-- 
Pound Weakens Against Euro After Manufacturing Growth Stalls

-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-04-06T16:07:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/pound-extends-drop-versus-euro-after-industrial-output-declines.html
The pound weakened against the euro
after a report showed U.K. manufacturing growth unexpectedly
stalled in February, fueling speculation that the  Bank of
England  will keep  interest rates  lower for longer.  Two-year gilts rose and sterling slid against 13 of its 16
most traded peers. Factory output was unchanged from January,
when it rose 0.9 percent, the  Office for National Statistics 
said today in London. The median forecast of 26 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was a 0.6 percent increase. Futures
traders pared bets borrowing costs will rise. The Bank of
England will keep its key rate at a record low tomorrow, a
survey of economists showed.  The report “took some of the wind out of sterling’s
sails,” said Jane Foley, a senior foreign-exchange strategist
at Rabobank International in London. “We don’t think the BOE
will be raising rates until November. Sterling has been
vulnerable against the euro for months.”  The pound weakened 0.6 percent to 87.84 pence per euro as
of 4:57 p.m. in  London . It was 0.1 percent stronger at $1.6318
after climbing to $1.6364, the strongest level since March 23.  The implied yield on the December short-sterling futures
contract dropped six basis points to 1.49 percent as traders
reduced wagers rates will rise. It reached 1.59 percent
yesterday, the most since March 10.  Home, Shop Prices  The U.K. currency fluctuated against the dollar as a report
showed  home prices  rebounded in March. Prices increased 0.1
percent from February, when they dropped 0.9 percent, Lloyds
Banking Group Plc’s Halifax unit said today. A report yesterday
showed  service industries  grew in March at the fastest pace in
more than a year, adding to optimism that the economic
contraction in the fourth quarter will be reversed.  “We would still expect the pound to appreciate because in
the end, the Bank of England will raise interest rates,” said
 Lutz Karpowitz , a currency strategist at Commerzbank AG in
 Frankfurt . “We’ll need some more hawkish comments and that
would be positive for the pound.”  Britain’s currency may strengthen to 83 pence per euro and
trade at $1.60 by the end of the year, Karpowitz said. The
median of 36 analysts’ and strategists’ predictions compiled by
Bloomberg News is for the pound to end the year at 84 pence.  The pound has fluctuated between $1.60 and $1.64 for two
months as investors assessed the likelihood and consequences of
tighter monetary policy.  Rate Meeting  U.K. shop prices rose 2.4 percent last month from a year
earlier, down from 2.7 percent, which was the fastest since
November 2008, the  British Retail Consortium  in London said in a
report today. The U.K.’s inflation rate quickened to 4.4 percent
in February, more than twice the central bank’s 2 percent
target, a government report showed on March 22.  The Bank of England will probably keep the benchmark rate
at 0.5 percent tomorrow, according to all 57 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg. The rate hasn’t changed since March 2009. They
will also keep their bond-purchase plan at 200 billion pounds,
according to a separate survey. The decision will be announced
at noon in London.  The yield on the two-year gilt, considered more sensitive
to interest rate expectations, declined four basis points to
1.40 percent, after being as high as 1.46 percent, the most
since Feb. 25. The 10-year government bond yield was little
changed at 3.76 percent.  The U.K. Debt Management Office sold 1 billion pounds of
inflation-protected bonds maturing in November 2037 at a real
yield of 0.711 percent. Investors bid for 2.03 times the amount
of debt on sale, compared with a so-called bid-to-cover of 1.85
times at the previous auction of the securities in November
2009.  ‘Core’ Market  Gilts have become a “core” government bond market,
offering investors a “risk-free asset,” according to the
nation’s debt chief Robert Stheeman.  “If the sovereign debt crisis becomes very much more in
focus for the market I think what you’re going to see is really
a focus on the core government bond markets and the U.K. now has
indeed become very much a core government bond market,”
Stheeman said today in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Last Word” with Maryam Nemazee. “It’s effectively a
diversification trade for many international investors. Sterling
government bonds, U.K. gilts, do represent the risk-free
asset.”  Gilts handed investors a loss of 1.2 percent this year,
according to indexes compiled by the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg. German securities
lost 2.5 percent, while U.S. Treasuries dropped 0.2 percent, the
indexes show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  