-- 
Qatar Shares Advance to Six-Week High on Earnings Expectations

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-04-06T09:49:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/qatar-shares-advance-to-six-week-high-on-earnings-expectations.html
Qatar shares rose to a six-week
high, led by banks, on bets first-quarter earnings in the
Persian Gulf nation will beat expectations and after the central
bank cut  interest rates  yesterday.  Qatar National Bank SAQ (QNBK) , the Persian Gulf country’s biggest
lender, headed for the highest close since March 20 before
reporting first-quarter profit.  Masraf Al Rayan (MARK) , the nation’s
second-largest Islamic lender, rallied 7 percent. The  QE Index (DSM) 
increased 1.1 percent to 8,593.16, the highest intraday level
since Feb. 21, at 12:37 p.m. in Doha. The Qatar Exchange Banking
Sector Index rose 2 percent.  “The market is placing its bets on Qatar National Bank
numbers which will kick off the earnings season in Qatar and set
the overall sentiment,” said Amro Halwani, a senior trader at
Shuaa Capital PSC in  Riyadh . “Qatar Central Bank’s rate cut
likely reflects improved liquidity in the system on the back of
rising hydrocarbons revenue, which is also giving the Qatari
banking sector a boost.”  Qatar National Bank, the company with the heaviest
weighting on the country’s index, may report a 30 percent
increase in first-quarter earnings to 1.64 billion riyals ($450
million) according to the median estimate of three analysts on
Bloomberg.  Qatar Islamic Bank (QIBK)  SAQ, the country’s biggest Islamic
lender, may next week report a 12 percent gain in net income to
335 million riyals, EFG-Hermes Holding SAE estimates.  Rate Cuts  Qatar National Bank climbed 0.7 percent to 138.9 riyals,
bringing the gain in the past month to 9.4 percent. Masraf
surged to 24.35 riyals, the highest since Feb. 7. Qatar Islamic
increased 2.1 percent to 82.7 riyals.  Qatar’s central bank lowered the benchmark overnight
lending rate by 50 basis points to 5 percent and the deposit
rate by the same amount to 1 percent, Governor Abdullah Al Thani
said yesterday. He didn’t give a reason for the moves. The last
reduction in August aimed to counter deflation and low borrowing
costs worldwide, the central bank said at the time. Qatar’s
economy will expand 20 percent this year, the  International
Monetary Fund  said Dec. 13.  Kuwait’s SE Price Index rose 0.4 percent, while Oman’s
measure slipped 0.3 percent and Bahrain’s BB All Share Index
declined 0.4 percent. Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX) 
retreated 0.1 percent. Dubai’s and  Abu Dhabi ’s index was little
changed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  