-- 
Quake-Prone Wellington Tenants Seek Safer Offices, Lower Rents

-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 
2011-04-06T12:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/quake-prone-wellington-tenants-seek-safer-offices-lower-rents.html
David Miller  discovered his
Wellington office may be an earthquake hazard when he saw it
named as one of the city’s riskiest buildings last month.  “We’re negotiating an arrangement very shortly and will
certainly be taking that into account,” said Miller, a director
at  Vantage Consulting Group , located on the first floor of an
 office tower  on The Terrace, the highest street in the city’s
central business district.  Tenants in New Zealand’s capital are scrutinizing a
register of the city’s riskiest buildings after a 6.3-magnitude
temblor in Christchurch killed more than 170 people on Feb. 22.
Wellington, on New Zealand’s northern island, not Christchurch,
located on the southern, has been perceived for decades as most
quake-prone because it straddles the Australian and Pacific
tectonic plates on one of the area’s most active faults.  Before the Christchurch quake, “it was just accepted that
one day an earthquake’s going to happen and if you’re unlucky,
you’re unlucky,” said Matt Hince, Wellington’s head of leasing
for  CB Richard Ellis Group Inc. (CBG) , the world’s largest real estate
broker. “Now it’s the most paramount question.”  Almost three weeks after the deadly Christchurch quake,
Japan suffered a 9.0-magnitude temblor, its strongest on record.
Unlike Christchurch, where many older buildings fell,  Tokyo ’s
office towers remained intact due to strict building codes and
the quake’s further distance from the capital.  While Wellington authorities will force owners of the
riskiest buildings to strengthen them, tenant demand could make
landlords of some older offices improve their quake-readiness,
said Hince. That may push up rents as owners pass upgrade costs
on to tenants and newer buildings’ landlords ask for premiums.  Uninsurable Buildings  Prime office rents in Wellington were NZ$291 ($225) per
square meter (10.76 square foot) in the last quarter of 2010,
according to Los Angeles-based CB Richard Ellis.  Wellington buildings that have been identified as
earthquake-prone may increasingly become uninsurable unless
their owners upgrade them, Rohan Hill, director and principal of
 Bayleys Capital Commercial  agency in Wellington, said in an
interview. Landlords may struggle to meet the cost of that
upgrading in a slowing economy, he said.  “If it’s on that list it’s going to be factored into price
expectations when brokering a deal,” Hill said.  Wellington, situated at the bottom of  New Zealand ’s  North
Island , is the nation’s center of government and its largest
commercial hub after Auckland. Settled by Europeans in 1840, the
city was built on forested hills surrounding a harbor. It’s the
center of the country’s film industry, and is the base for the
filming of the Hobbit, the two-film prequel to Lord of the Rings
directed by part-time resident  Peter Jackson .  Unsafe Buildings  An earthquake-prone building is defined in New Zealand
legislation as one likely to collapse in a moderate earthquake
and cause damage, injury or death. To upgrade such a structure
would usually involve strengthening weak connections found in
roof-to-wall columns, shear walls and the roof diaphragm.  Wellington’s new office buildings were constructed to a
stricter code than Christchurch’s, as the probability of a quake
in the capital was higher, said David Hopkins, an engineer who’s
assessing the Christchurch damage. Many of the Feb. 22 victims
were in offices when the temblor struck at lunchtime, wrecking
about a third of the central business district and many heritage
buildings including the city’s iconic cathedral.  Tenants in potentially unsafe Wellington buildings have
made relocation enquiries to AMP New Zealand Office Ltd., which
leases about 145,000 square meters (1.6 million square feet) of
 office space  in the capital, Scott Pritchard, chief executive
officer, said in an interview. They’re also calling agents.  Assessing Options  “We do have some requirements for people who are in
earthquake-prone buildings who are now, after Christchurch,
reassessing their options and want to look around and get out of
them,” Steve Rodgers, director of Wellington leasing at real
estate broker Jones Lang LaSalle Group Inc., said in an
interview.  Wellington’s council has been assessing commercial
buildings for earthquake safety since 2009, according to its
 website . It has so far declared almost 800 as “potentially
earthquake-prone,” according to a council list posted on local
websites last month. Owners of about 180 of them were ordered by
the council to strengthen their buildings, according to a
separate list on the council’s website.  Quake Prone  Wellington often experiences between four and six
earthquakes a day within about 80 kilometers (50 miles) of the
city, local seismologist  Euan Smith  said in an interview. Most
tremors are around magnitude 2.0 and not felt. There’s a 5
percent chance of a major temblor in the next 50 years, he said.  The last major earthquake to strike Wellington was a
magnitude 8.2 temblor in January 1855, the largest recorded in
New Zealand history. It killed between five and nine people, of
around 6,000 who lived there, and altered the landscape of the
city and surrounding region. Auckland, the largest city, isn’t
prone to earthquakes as it isn’t believed to be situated on
active surface fault lines.  New Zealand’s building laws for earthquake safety are
similar to  Japan ’s, where none of Tokyo’s buildings fell after
the March 11 disaster. Yet many of Christchurch’s buildings were
ruined as the temblor’s epicenter was about six kilometers from
the city center and five kilometers deep, according to the U.S.
Geological Survey website. Japan’s March 11 temblor was centered
373 kilometers from Tokyo and about 32 kilometers deep.  The  South British Insurance Building  on Lambton Quay,
Wellington’s main shopping street, was built in 1936 and is on
the council’s list of potentially earthquake-prone structures.
Agents are trying to lease office space on its third floor.  “We could say to the landlord, hey this is an earthquake-
prone building, how about you drop the rent or we’re not
renewing,” Anton Nadilo, managing director of  Focus Financial ,
a wealth advisory company that rents offices on the first floor,
said in an interview. “There might be some leverage in that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  