-- 
Rajaratnam Gains Totaled $63 Million, FBI Agent Testifies

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n ,   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-04-06T17:26:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/rajaratnam-gains-totaled-63-million-fbi-agent-testifies-1-.html
Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam gained $63.8 million through trading with inside
information in 11 stocks, a federal agent testified.  James Barnacle Jr., a  Federal Bureau of Investigation 
special agent, told jurors today at Rajaratnam’s insider-trading
trial the defendant made, or avoided losses of, $63.8 million.
The indictment of Rajaratnam alleged that illegal profit totaled
$45 million.  “What’s the total profit and losses earned for each of the
stocks?” Assistant U.S. Attorney Reed Brodsky asked.  “The total profit and loss avoided was $63,812,164,” said
Barnacle, the last government witness at the  Manhattan  federal
court trial.  Rajaratnam, 53, is on trial in the largest crackdown on
hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history. The Sri Lankan-born
money manager is accused of trading on tips leaked by corporate
insiders and hedge-fund traders. He has denied wrongdoing and
says his trades were based on legitimate research.  The government said it may rest as early as today with the
conclusion of Barnacle’s testimony. Rajaratnam’s defense case
will follow.  Barnacle said that Galleon earned $53.8 million in profit
and avoided losses of $9.9 million. Before he testified about
Rajaratnam’s alleged gains, the government had him detail that
Galleon stock trades coincided with conversations Rajaratnam had
with people who allegedly tipped him.  Reviewed Reports  On cross-examination of Barnacle, defense attorney  John Dowd  began taking the agent through the transactions at issue
and reviewing the press accounts, analyst reports and other
factors that may have led to Galleon stock purchases.  The money manager’s lawyers today said they should be
allowed to call a former U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
economist as an expert witness. Prosecutors sought to block the
testimony.  Gregg Jarrell, the SEC’s top economist from 1984 to 1987,
who  teaches  at the University of Rochester’s graduate school of
business in New York, would testify he found nothing improper
about Rajaratnam’s trades in  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  stocks and
dozens of other companies, defense lawyers said in court papers.  Jarrell’s opinion is that “it would have been reasonable
for a well-informed professional investor to trade in the stock
in the manner that occurred here,” Rajaratnam’s lawyer Dowd
said today in a filing.  ‘Simply Disagrees’  ‘The prosecution “simply disagrees” with Jarrell,
Rajaratnam’s lawyers said.  “The government raises straw-man arguments and
mischaracterizes Professor Jarrell’s proffered testimony as
legal conclusions -- all for the purpose of seeking to exclude
all evidence that would permit the jury to draw any inference
contrary to the inference the government wants it do draw,” the
lawyers said, arguing that Jarrell’s testimony is proper and
reliable.  Prosecutors in an April 1 called Jarrell’s anticipated
testimony speculative or outside his expertise. They noted that
a federal judge in  Ohio  limited his testimony in a 2005 criminal
case against Roger Blackwell, a director of Worthington Foods
Inc. who was convicted of trading on inside information.  Trading Pattern  Jarrell scrutinized Rajaratnam’s trading in Goldman Sachs,
 Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) , Akamai Technologies Inc., Xilinx
Inc., Starent Networks Corp., AtRoad Inc. and other companies.
Jarrell’s testimony would “ offer an opinion whether the public
information would support the trading pattern at issue,” the
defense said.  Jarrell concluded that the trades at issue “represent
approximately 1 percent of Mr. Rajaratnam’s total trading”
during the alleged conspiracy and just 1 percent of the value of
Rajaratnam’s transactions, Dowd wrote.  U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell hasn’t decided whether
to allow Jarrell to testify.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in New York
at   dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  