-- 
Rajaratnam Prosecution Finishes Case Against Galleon Co-Founder

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n ,   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-04-07T04:26:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/rajaratnam-federal-prosecutors-rest-insider-case-after-presenting-wiretaps.html
U.S. prosecutors finished presenting
their case against Raj Rajaratnam after presenting wiretaps and
witness testimony in an effort to show his Galleon Group LLC
hedge fund made millions of dollars through  insider trading .  “The government rests,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Andrew Michaelson told U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell in Manhattan
yesterday. The judge dismissed the jury until April 11.  After the jurors left the courtroom, the defense asked
Holwell to throw out the case, saying the government has failed
to prove its case. Holwell said he wouldn’t issue an immediate
ruling.  Barring a dismissal by the judge, the defense will present
its case next. Rajaratnam, 53, hasn’t said whether he will take
the witness stand. In the U.S., the accused can’t be compelled
to testify in his own defense.  In cross-examining government witnesses, Rajaratnam’s
lawyers attempted to show that their client traded on a
“mosaic” of publicly available information, not insider tips.  “His best chance of being acquitted, or at least getting a
hung jury, is to continue presenting his mosaic defense,” said
 Andrew Stoltmann , a lawyer in  Chicago  who represents investors
in securities litigation and isn’t involved in the Rajaratnam
case. “He’ll certainly present more witnesses to establish the
information was public.”  Hedge-Fund Crackdown  Rajaratnam is the central figure in the largest crackdown
on hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history. His trial began
March 8. The Sri Lankan-born money manager is accused of making
profits and avoiding losses totaling $63.8 million from tips
leaked by corporate insiders. Rajaratnam denies wrongdoing,
saying he based the trades on research.  He faces five counts of conspiracy and nine counts of
 securities fraud , each of which carries a maximum sentence of 20
years in prison.  For the past month, prosecutors have presented witnesses
and wiretapped recordings showing that Rajaratnam had at least
10 sources of inside information throughout  Wall Street  and the
U.S. business community.  Witnesses testified that Rajaratnam got leaks originating
with a  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  board member, a consultant at
McKinsey & Co., executives of other public companies and several
traders.  Three government witnesses described how they shared inside
information with Rajaratnam. Each of the three has pleaded
guilty and is testifying for the government in exchange for
leniency.  School ‘Pal’  Anil Kumar, a former director at McKinsey, said he leaked
client information to Rajaratnam beginning in 2004, including
updates on  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) ’s acquisition of ATI
Technologies Inc. in 2006. Rajiv Goel, who worked in chipmaker
 Intel Corp. (INTC) ’s treasury group, told how he passed tips to
Rajaratnam, his “pal” from business school.  An ex-Galleon portfolio manager,  Adam Smith , reviewed a
half-dozen stocks about which he said he shared inside
information with Rajaratnam, testifying that the hedge fund used
illegal data to get an “edge” in its trading.  The witness testimony was supplemented by recordings of
Rajaratnam’s phone calls secretly made before his October 2009
arrest.  In one, Rajaratnam is heard asking Kumar, “Should I buy a
million?” after Kumar told him about a transaction involving
chipmaker Advanced Micro Devices, a McKinsey client. “You
cannot go wrong,” Kumar replied, according to the recording.  ‘On the Board’  Jurors heard a recording of Rajaratnam telling a colleague
that he has a source “on the board of Goldman Sachs,” and
another of  Rajat Gupta , then a Goldman Sachs director, telling
Rajaratnam about internal discussions at the bank. Prosecutors,
who haven’t charged Gupta with a crime, said he’s a co-
conspirator.  James Barnacle Jr., a  Federal Bureau of Investigation 
special agent, told jurors yesterday that Rajaratnam made, or
avoided losses of, about $63.8 million. The indictment of
Rajaratnam alleged that illegal profit totaled $45 million.
Barnacle said that Galleon earned $53.8 million in profit and
avoided losses of $9.9 million.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court at 
 glovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at   phurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 