-- 
RBS Prosecution Deal Extended Over U.S. Compliance Concern

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-04-06T15:26:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/rbs-prosecution-deal-extended-over-u-s-compliance-concern-1-.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,
Britain’s biggest government-owned lender, will be subject to a
deferred-prosecution agreement with the U.S. on conspiracy and
money-laundering allegations for another seven months.  U.S. District Judge Colleen Kollar-Kotelly in  Washington 
ordered the extension at the request of prosecutors, who said
they had “additional concerns” about the bank’s compliance
program, and with agreement by the bank.  “We want to make sure the compliance program in effect is
sufficient to make sure these issues don’t arise again,” said
Assistant U.S. Attorney George Varghese.  Royal Bank and the Justice Department reached a deal in May
to settle charges that ABN Amro Bank, which was acquired by a
group including Royal Bank in 2007, conspired to defraud the
U.S. by engaging in transactions with state sponsors of
terrorism. From 1996 until 2005, ABN falsified records to
illegally move hundreds of millions of dollars through U.S.
financial system involving banned countries such as Libya, Iran,
Sudan and Cuba, the agreement states.  The agreement, which required a forfeiture of $500 million,
was to expire after 12 months. Kollar-Kotelly moved the May 10
expiration date to Dec. 31.  The government didn’t specify the concerns other than
saying additional training for contractors and additional risk
assessment of customers was needed.  A lawyer for Royal Bank, Nicolas Bourtin, told the judge
the bank “may not agree fully” with the  Justice Department .  “We understand their concerns and are happy to work with
them to address it,” said Bourtin, of Sullivan & Cromwell in
 New York .  The case is U.S. v. The Royal Bank of  Scotland , 10-
cr-00124, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  