-- 
Brazil Extends Tax on Foreign Loans in Latest Bid to Stem Currency Gains

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 
2011-04-07T00:41:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/real-weakens-most-in-three-weeks-as-brazil-readies-more-currency-measures.html
Brazil  extended a tax on foreign-
based loans to stem gains in the real after the currency reached
a two-and-a-half-year high this week, making the nation’s
exports less competitive and imports cheaper.  Starting tomorrow, banks and companies will have to pay a 6
percent tax when borrowing overseas for up to two years, Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  told reporters in Brasilia. Earlier this
week, President  Dilma Rousseff ’s government broadened the same
tax on foreign loans of up to one year from three months.  Pressure has been mounting on Rousseff to take measures to
curb currency gains as manufacturers complain about a flood of
cheaper imports from China, whose currency is pegged to the
greenback. Chinese exports to Brazil rose 61 percent last year
to $25.6 billion as a 37 percent rally by the real against the
yuan since the start of 2009 lowered the cost of imports.  “We will continue to take measures to prevent Brazilian
companies from being hurt” by countries that manipulate their
currencies, Mantega told reporters in Brasilia today. “We know
countries use the difference in  exchange rate  to export more to
the Brazilian market.”  Mantega said he has an “array” of measures that can still
be taken to curb gains by the real, which has rallied 38 percent
against the U.S. dollar over the past two years.  Raising Tariffs  Brazil last year raised tariffs on Chinese-made toys to 35
percent from 20 percent. Brazil yesterday approved anti-dumping
tariffs on Chinese-made viscose textiles.  Cia. Industrial Schlosser entered into  bankruptcy
protection  yesterday, citing a crisis in the textile sector,
according to a regulatory filing.  Brazil’s 12-month trade surplus, which has been buoyed by
the high price for  iron ore  and other commodity exports, is
expected to narrow to $15 billion by the end of the year from
$23 billion in March, according to central bank data. That would
be the lowest surplus since 2003, and down from a record $48
billion in May 2007.  The beef plants of JBS SA, the world’s largest beef
producer, are operating at 75 percent of their capacity in
Brazil and 95 percent in the U.S, because the weak  U.S. dollar 
makes exports from  North America  more attractive, Chief
Executive Officer Wesley Batista said at an event in Sao Paulo
yesterday.  ‘Negative Impact’  “They’re trying to fight off the negative impact on domestic
industries caused by the strengthening currency,” said  Luciano Rostagno , chief strategist at CM Capital Markets Ltda.  Industrial production has lagged retail sales over the past
year as the stronger currency hurts manufacturers, Rostagno said.
Monthly industrial output contracted 7 out of the past 10 months
through January, while monthly retail sales shrank only once in
that period.  “All the measures we’ve taken have produced results,”
Mantega said, adding that the real could have strengthened to as
high as 1.50 per U.S. dollar in the absence of the currency
curbs. “If we hadn’t acted, then certainly the real would be
much higher valued than it is now.”  Capital Inflows  Brazil is stepping up its efforts to fight capital inflows
driven by the highest inflation-adjusted interest rates in the
Group of 20 nations and near-zero borrowing costs in the U.S.
and  Europe . Economic growth that last year reached 7.5 percent,
the fastest in over two decades, is also lifting the currency.  “A strong currency is here to stay,” said  Zeina Latif ,
senior economist for Latin America at RBS Securities Inc. in  Sao
Paulo . “Brazil should change its agenda rather than trying to
stop the currency trend.”  While the real’s rally over the past two years is the best
performance among 25 emerging market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, gains of 2.9 percent this year trail those by 11 such
currencies. After Mantega’s office said yesterday that he would
announce new measures, the real erased gains and fell 0.3
percent to 1.6144 per U.S. dollar. On April 4, the real touched
the highest since August 2008.  In October, Mantega kicked off what he called Brazil’s
response to the global currency war by tripling to 6 percent a
tax on foreigners’ purchase of fixed-income assets.  China  Trip  Rousseff travels to China next week for a state visit and
to attend a summit of leaders from Brazil,  Russia ,  India  and
China, the so-called BRIC nations.  Brazil’s General Union of Workers, which represents 5
million workers, urged Rousseff to react to “cheap stuff’
imported from China, according to an e-mailed statement.  “We can’t continue to finance jobs abroad, in China or in
any other country in the world,” Ricardo Patah, head of the
union, said in the statement.  Brazil’s 11.75 percent benchmark interest rate compares
with 8 percent in Russia and 6.25 percent in  Turkey .  Brazil is expected to raise its so-called Selic rate to
12.25 percent by year-end to fight inflation expected to reach
6.02 percent, according to the median estimates in an April 1
central bank survey of economists. Brazil targets inflation of
4.5 percent, plus or minus two percentage points.  “In other countries, they are imposing  capital controls 
and taxes but keeping interest rates low,” said  Alfredo Coutino ,
Latin America director for Moody’s Analytics in West Chester,
 Pennsylvania . “Brazil is one of the most attractive emerging
markets and in the world because of interest rates.”  Brazil received net inflows of $12.7 billion from trade and
financial investments in March, compared with $7.4 billion for
all of February, according to the central bank. This year to
date, inflows totaled $36 billion, compared with $24 billion for
the whole of 2010.  Brazil’s economy will attract a record $55 billion in
foreign direct investment this year, according to central bank
estimates.  Developing economies will expand 6.5 percent this year
compared with 2.5 percent growth in developed economies,
according to an  International Monetary Fund  forecast published
in January. Brazil’s economy will grow 4 percent this year,
according to the median estimate in a central bank survey of
economists.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  