-- 
Reliance Fuel Shipments Double Before U.S. Driving Season Starts

-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 
2011-04-06T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/reliance-fuel-shipments-double-before-u-s-driving-season-starts.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) ,  India ’s
largest listed company, doubled fuel exports from the world’s
biggest refining complex last month as it boosted gasoline
shipments to the U.S. ahead of the driving season.  The Mumbai-based company, controlled by billionaire Mukesh Ambani, increased shipments of fuel products from its Jamnagar
facility to at least 2 million metric tons from 850,000 tons in
February, according to ship-tracking data compiled by Bloomberg
and vessel fixtures from  Clarkson Research  Services Ltd.  Gasoline demand in the U.S., the world’s biggest economy,
typically peaks in the so-called summer driving season, which
lasts from the Memorial Day weekend in late May to the Labor Day
holiday in early September. Reliance is exporting more as state-
owned rivals such as Indian Oil Corp. and Bharat Petroleum Corp.
sell most fuels domestically at government-capped prices.  “Demand in the U.S. for gasoline is expected to increase
ahead of the driving season,” said  Praveen Kumar , Singapore-
based head of South Asia oil and gas at FACTS Global Energy, an
industry consultant. “European refiners may also be looking to
ship to the U.S., but high Brent crude prices are forcing them
to cut production while stocks remain high. Reliance is seeking
to take advantage of that situation.”  Manoj Warrier, a spokesman for Reliance in Mumbai, didn’t
respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Jamnagar Refinery  Brent oil, the European benchmark, surged 24 percent in the
first quarter as fighting in  Libya  cut production from Africa’s
third-largest supplier. The violence is the bloodiest in a wave
of uprisings that have swept the Middle East and North  Africa 
this year.  Reliance exported at least 710,000 tons of gasoline from
Jamnagar in western India during March, compared with 500,000
tons in the previous month, according to transmissions captured
by AISLive on Bloomberg and data from Clarkson Research, a unit
of the world’s biggest shipbroker.  More than half of the March gasoline shipments headed for
the U.S., while other destinations included  Singapore ,  Japan  and
Europe. The Sarasota was hired by Reliance to ship 90,000 tons
of the fuel to  New York , the data show. The vessel left the port
of Sikka near Jamnagar in mid-March, sailed through the Suez
Canal and the Mediterranean Sea, and was last tracked heading
toward the U.S. east coast, according to data on Bloomberg.  Diesel Exports  Reliance shipped at least 790,000 tons of diesel overseas
in March, the data show. Gasoil, or diesel, from Reliance’s
refineries has been in demand in  Europe  because of a drop in
temperatures in the region, Kumar said. Exports of the fuel may
slow during the summer, he said.  Almost half of diesel shipments went to Europe, while other
destinations included Brazil and Saudi Arabia. The Desh Garima
was chartered by BP Plc to transport 80,000 tons of diesel to
Europe, the Clarkson data show. The vessel sailed from Sikka in
early March and was last recorded near Le Havre off the coast of
Normandy in  France , according to ship transmissions.  All figures from Clarkson are for single-voyage bookings
and exclude long-term charters. Shipbrokers aren’t obliged to
report charters so the scope of data capture can vary from month
to month.  Reliance runs two refineries in the western Indian state of
Gujarat, which are capable of processing heavier grades of
crude. They have a processing capacity of 1.24 million barrels a
day, and account for about 1.6 percent of global refining
capacity, according to the company’s  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  