-- 
Republicans Target Health Care Spending to Cut Deficit More Than Obama

-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 
2011-04-06T04:00:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/republicans-target-health-care-spending-to-cut-deficit-more-than-obama.html
House Republicans  promise to narrow
the  U.S. budget deficit  more than President Barack Obama’s plan,
in large part by scaling back the federal government’s health-
care programs for the elderly and poor.  The Republican plan released by House Budget Committee
Chairman  Paul Ryan  would phase out the traditional Medicare
program for the elderly and replace it with subsidies to buy
private insurance. It would cap spending on Medicaid, the
health-care plan for the poor and give states more discretion
over how to run the joint federal-state program, making long-
range costs more predictable, according to budget analysts.  “It basically changes the promise from a level of
coverage to a level of financial support,” said  David Walker ,
former U.S. comptroller general.  Ryan’s plan forecasts shrinking federal deficits starting
over the next decade, from $995 billion in fiscal 2012 to $385
billion, or 1.6 percent of gross domestic product, by 2021. By
comparison, the budget Obama released in February forecast a
deficit of $1.1 trillion next year with the 2021 shortfall
hitting $774 billion, or 3.1 percent of GDP.  Still, both Obama and Ryan rely on assumptions that aren’t
necessarily dependable because economics or politics can change
drastically in five or 10 years. The claims of budget savings
each is making run up against a history of official deficit
forecasts that can be far off the mark within a few years.  “Who the hell knows what’s going to happen in 10 years?”
said David M. Primo, a political science professor at the
 University of Rochester  in  New York  who studies the federal
budget.  Surpluses and Deficits  When Democratic President  Bill Clinton  reached a budget
deal with Republicans in 1997, official estimates forecast the
cuts would take five years to balance the budget, only to
produce a surplus by 1998 that grew to $236 billion in 2000.  Conversely, when Republican President  George W. Bush 
proposed his first round of tax cuts in 2001, the Congressional
Budget Office forecast a surplus of $3.2 trillion over the next
decade. Bush ended up running deficits throughout his
presidency and left office with a shortfall of $1.4 trillion.  “There are two sorts of things beyond our control: what
happens in the world -- so, that’s the economy, war, what have
you,” Primo said. “And then there’s political dynamics.
Either of those can cause massive deviations from the estimates
that are put out.”  Tax Revenue  Obama achieves two-thirds of his budget savings through
cuts in non-security discretionary spending, including low-
income energy assistance, transportation and housing programs.
The other third would come from revenue increases, including
higher income taxes after 2012 for married couples making more
than $250,000 annually.  Tax revenue can be difficult to project because it depends
on the growth of the economy, said Rudy Penner, a former CBO
director who is now a senior fellow at the  Urban Institute  in
Washington.  “Incomes are very volatile at the top, based on the
economy and the stock market,” Penner said. “Obviously
raising the marginal rate on the rich also will intensify the
search for legal  tax avoidance , and you don’t know how
successful they’ll be.”  The budget surpluses generated under Clinton were driven
in part by the strong economy and a technology stock boom that
created a “revenue bubble” from income taxes on investment
gains, said Brian Riedl, a budget analyst for the  Heritage
Foundation , a policy research organization in Washington.  More Spending  The swing to deficits under Bush followed a fall in the
stock market and a surge in spending for the wars in
Afghanistan and  Iraq , stepped-up security after the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks, a new prescription-drug benefit for the
elderly and increases in highway spending, school aid and  farm
subsidies , Riedl said.  Ryan’s budget plan also includes cuts in discretionary
spending. He proposes capping top corporate and individual tax
rates at 25 percent. Meeting his deficit goals would require
combining the tax cuts with elimination of popular tax breaks
such as deductions for mortgage interest and charitable
contributions.  While Obama has said he supports lowering corporate tax
rates in conjunction with closing loopholes and eliminating
special breaks for companies, he hasn’t presented a specific
proposal.  The White House budget projects a 10-year total deficit of
$7.2 trillion. Ryan’s would have a 10-year total of $5.1
trillion.  Higher CBO Number  By contrast, the  Congressional Budget Office  forecasts a
fiscal 2012 shortfall of $1.4 trillion and a 10-year total
deficit of $9.47 trillion. That reflects more conservative
estimates on how fast the economy will recover, meaning less
tax money flowing into the Treasury.  Obama yesterday declined to directly comment on Ryan’s
budget proposal, saying he was focused on finishing a deal on
spending levels for the rest of the current fiscal year.  “We’ll have time to have a long discussion about next
year’s budget, as well as the long-term debt and deficit issues,
where we’re going to have some very tough negotiations,” he
told reporters at the White House. “And there are going to be,
I think, very sharply contrasting visions in terms of where we
should move the country.”  His spokesman,  Jay Carney , was more direct.  Ryan’s plan “fails the test of balance” by cutting taxes
for the wealthy while slashing programs that benefit middle-
income and poor Americans, Carney said at a briefing.  “While we agree with congressman Ryan’s goal, we strongly
disagree with his approach,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Dorning in  Washington  at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 