-- 
Republicans Eyeing Run Against Obama Back Medicare Revamp

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-04-06T17:07:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/republicans-eyeing-run-against-obama-line-up-behind-ryan-s-medicare-revamp.html
Republicans considering running for
president were quick to embrace House Budget Chairman  Paul Ryan ’s plan to shrink the  U.S. budget deficit , a blueprint
likely to frame the debate over federal spending heading into
next year’s elections and spur Democratic attacks.  The proposal released yesterday by Ryan, a Wisconsin
Republican, would cut more than $6 trillion over the next decade
from Medicare, Medicaid, food stamps and scores of other
programs. It calls for the biggest overhaul of federal benefits
since President  George W. Bush ’s failed 2005 attempt to reshape
Social Security.  With Democrats controlling the Senate, Ryan’s plan stands
little chance of becoming law. Still, the Republican wager that
voters will accept the push for deep spending cuts and a
restructuring of government health-care programs in exchange for
long-term fiscal stability could put the party’s candidates in a
perilous position, said Stanley Collender, managing director of
Qorvis Communications and a former congressional budget analyst.  “This is one of the real nightmares for a presidential
candidate,” Collender said. “Medicare is every bit as toxic as
taxes.”  Potential 2012 Republican presidential candidates applauded
Ryan’s plan, even as they avoided commenting on its details.  ‘Real Leadership’  “The American people finally have someone offering real
leadership in Washington,”  Minnesota  Governor Tim Pawlenty said
in a statement. “We must get our fiscal house in order with
real spending cuts and with real structural reforms that stop
the spending spree before it bankrupts our country.”  Former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , another
potential 2012 candidate, said Ryan is “setting the right tone
for finally getting spending and entitlements under control.”  Sarah Palin, the former Alaska governor and 2008 Republican
vice presidential nominee, used her Twitter account to say:
“There is hope! Serious & necessary leadership rolls out
serious & necessary reform proposal. Good start.”  Representative  Michele Bachmann  of Minnesota praised the
plan for being “focused on  job creation  and debt reduction, the
two key issues that the American people sent us here to
address.” She also said it is “proof” that the House
Republican majority “is heeding the calls of the American
people to cut spending.”  Mississippi Governor  Haley Barbour , who has taken steps to
heighten his national profile, joined in a letter with other
Republican governors that called Ryan’s proposal “bold.” The
plan would give them “freedom to innovate, share best practices,
and create cost-effective ways to deliver quality health care to
our most vulnerable populations,” the letter said.  Primary Voters  John Feehery , who from 1999 to 2005 was the top spokesman
for then-House Speaker Dennis Hastert, an Illinois Republican,
said the prospective presidential candidates need to praise the
plan because it is in line with the views of many of those who
will determine the party’s nominees.  “You want to win the primary voter, and this should appeal
to the Republican primary voter,” said Feehery, now a political
consultant with the  Washington  firm Quinn Gillespie &
Associates.  In the general election, though, the proposal is fodder for
“a bunch of juicy targets for 30-second ads” to be run against
Republicans, Feehery said. “Any time you talk about changing
the Medicare program, there is risk,” he said.  ‘Beach Ball’  Representative Steven LaTourette, an Ohio Republican,
offered a similar assessment. “These tough times call for a
bold budget,” he said of Ryan’s plan. “But by the same token,
nobody should be confused that we haven’t just delivered not a
softball to the Democrats, but a beach ball that they will hit
out of the park.”  Democrats pounced on the proposal.  “They essentially end Medicare as we know it,” said
Representative  Chris Van Hollen  of  Maryland , the top Democrat on
the House Budget Committee. “They don’t reform it. They deform
it.”  Deficits and debt already have emerged as major issues for
the 2012 campaign, with potential Republican presidential
candidates saying the nation is headed for financial ruin unless
leaders tackle  government spending .  Poll Findings  While voters say they want politicians to tame the federal
deficit, surveys show they don’t want to harm entitlements such
as Medicare and Social Security or many discretionary spending
programs. In a March Bloomberg National Poll, the federal
deficit and government spending ranked second in importance --
behind only unemployment and jobs -- when respondents were asked
to rank five issues facing the nation.  Still, majorities rejected significant reductions in
community programs that serve lower-income Americans, medical
and scientific research, education and the Environmental
Protection Agency. More than three-quarters of those surveyed
opposed any reduction in Medicare benefits.  “The polls all show that people don’t want the government
to do any less, they just want it to cost less,” Collender
said.  Ryan’s proposal would end Medicare as an open-ended
entitlement program, replacing it for those currently under 55
years old with a plan to provide subsidies for buying private
health insurance on the private market. It would cut Medicaid,
the health-insurance plan for lower-income Americans, by more
than $700 billion over the next 10 years.  During last year’s campaign, Republican leaders distanced
themselves from Ryan’s proposals, saying they weren’t the
party’s official ideas. Now, following an election in which
Republican candidates ran on tackling the deficit and took
control of the House, several said the party had no choice but
to embrace an ambitious budget-cutting plan.  Need to Lead  “We’re in the majority and we have to lead,” said
Representative Mike Simpson of  Idaho .  Ryan said Republicans must embrace entitlement changes to
avert financial insolvency for the U.S.  “We cannot keep going down the path of fearing what the
other political party will do to us if we try to solve a
problem,” he told reporters yesterday. “This is not a budget,
this is a cause.”  That cause could create trouble next year for lawmakers
such as Representative Lou Barletta, a freshman who said his
Pennsylvania district has the state’s highest percentage of
senior citizens. The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee
has targeted Barletta for just considering Ryan’s proposals.  “This is a plan that will not affect seniors” who now
have Medicare benefits, he told reporters on  Capitol Hill . “I’m
going to say that every time somebody asks me a question, every
time somebody makes eye contact with me.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at   or
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  