-- 
Rice Urges Congress to Reject Cuts to UN Funding

-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 
2011-04-06T16:10:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/rice-urges-congress-to-reject-cuts-to-un-funding.html
     April 6 (Bloomberg)-- The U.S. ambassador to the  United
Nations  urged Congress today to reject efforts to withhold or
reduce UN funding, saying the U.S. is working to reform how the
international organization does business.  “It goes without saying that the UN is far from perfect,
but it delivers real results for every American,”  Susan Rice 
told the House Appropriations subcommittee that oversees UN
funding.  President Barack Obama’s administration has requested more
than $3.5 billion for the UN in its fiscal 2012 budget proposal.
House members have introduced legislation to withhold or reduce
funding for a world body some lawmakers view as ineffective and
biased against Israel.  “I can assure you that if members of the House don’t see
changes, legislative steps will continue and funds will be in
jeopardy,” said Representative Kay Granger, a Republican from
 Texas  who heads the Appropriations subcommittee on State and
foreign operations.  Rice said the U.S. is taking steps to encourage reform,
including pressing for a strengthened internal oversight office,
a streamlined hiring process to reduce vacancies, and an
overhaul of the way the UN conducts its day-to-day business.  “What we get from the United Nations is a solid return on
the roughly one-tenth of 1 percent of  government spending  that
we invest,” Rice said in her written testimony.  Subcommittee members praised Rice for helping secure
passage last month of the UN Security Council resolution
authorizing military action in Libya.  Some Republicans, who control the House, have been eager to
see greater changes at the UN, and some advocate withdrawing
U.S. support.  Human Rights ‘Farce’  Representative Mario Diaz-Balart, a Republican from
Florida, called the UN  Human Rights Council  a “farce” because
its members include  China , Russia and, until recently, Libya.  “How are we supposed to take the UN seriously when,
frankly, they don’t?” Diaz-Balart asked.  Rice said she agreed the Human Rights Council “remains
very worrisome” and that the U.S. has pushed successfully for
several measures to improve it.  “We have made substantial progress that wouldn’t have
happened without our membership,” she said, citing the creation
of commissions to investigate possible human rights abuses in
 Ivory Coast , Libya and elsewhere.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  