-- 
Trichet Reticence Ignored as Investors Forecast ECB to Keep Raising Rates

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-04-07T08:16:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/trichet-heading-for-hefty-rate-increase-cycle-investors-say.html
European Central Bank President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  says he isn’t embarking on a series of
interest-rate increases. Investors don’t believe him.  ECB policy makers meeting in Frankfurt today will raise the
benchmark interest rate to 1.25 percent from a record low of 1
percent, according to all 57 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey. When Trichet flagged the move on March 3, he said it’s
“certainly not the start of a series.” Investors are
nevertheless betting on two more increases to 1.75 percent by
the end of the year, Eonia forward contracts show.  “We’re definitely at the beginning of a rate-increase
cycle,” said Christoph Kind, head of  asset allocation  at
Frankfurt Trust, which manages about 16 billion euros ($22.9
billion). “Markets are expecting that rates will go up to 2.25
percent within a year -- that’s a hefty number of increases.”  ECB officials have spoken of “normalizing” rates as
surging  oil prices  stoke inflation across the euro area and
record growth in Germany, Europe’s largest economy, threatens to
fuel price pressures. The risk is that higher borrowing costs
may boost the euro and exacerbate the region’s sovereign debt
crisis, which last night forced  Portugal  to become the third
nation after Greece and Ireland to seek a European Union
bailout.  Press Conference  The ECB will announce today’s rate decision at 1:45 p.m.
and Trichet holds a press conference 45 minutes later. The  Bank
of England  will keep its key rate at 0.5 percent at noon in
London, according to a Bloomberg survey. Earlier, the  Bank of
Japan  held its benchmark at 0.1 percent in  Tokyo .  The ECB is joining  China ,  India , Poland and Sweden in
raising interest rates even as the  Federal Reserve  remains
reluctant to tighten amid divisions among policy makers. A rate
increase today would be the first time in 40 years that  Europe ’s
benchmark has risen before the U.S. equivalent.  The ECB has repeatedly been forced to delay the withdrawal
of emergency policy settings put in place during the global
financial crisis as Europe’s debt woes threatened to tear the
17-nation currency bloc apart.  While nations such as Ireland and  Spain  are still buckling
under debt burdens and burst property bubbles, Germany’s economy
is booming and, on aggregate, the region has returned to health.  Euro-area growth will average 1.7 percent this year and 1.8
percent in 2012, according to ECB forecasts.  ‘Clear the Decks’  Portugal’s request for EU aid is unlikely to deter the ECB
from raising rates today, said  Julian Callow , chief European
economist at  Barclays Capital  in  London . A bailout will probably
be seen as a “necessary step in helping to address one of the
problem areas” and “clear the decks,” he said.  The ECB’s resolve to return to a more normal framework may
prompt it to re-widen its rate corridor -- the gap between the
overnight deposit rate and the marginal lending rate -- to
encourage banks to lend to each other, Callow and economists at
Nomura International said.  That would involve leaving the deposit rate at 0.25 percent
and raising the marginal rate to 2.25 percent from 1.75 percent,
restoring a 100 basis-point gap either side of the benchmark
rate and making it less attractive for banks to borrow from the
ECB overnight.  Inflation Breach  The central bank’s primary concern is inflation, which
breached its 2 percent limit in December and accelerated to 2.6
percent last month, the fastest pace in more than two years.
Producer prices rose an annual 6.6 percent in February,
increasing pressure on companies to pass on higher costs to
households.  While policy makers acknowledge that surging energy and
food prices are largely to blame, they’re worried that workers
will demand higher wages in compensation, entrenching faster
inflation.  “It’s unlikely that they would raise interest rates once
as a gesture,”  Andrew Balls , head of European  portfolio
management  at Pacific Investment Management Co., told Bloomberg
Television on April 4. “They want to continue on a path of
interest-rate hikes. We’re going to have to wait and judge the
impact, particularly on the weaker peripheral countries.”  Households in debt-stricken economies stand to suffer more
from higher borrowing costs than those in stronger nations. More
than 83 percent of homes in Spain are owned, twice the share in
 Germany , and two out of five are burdened with an outstanding
mortgage or housing loan, Eurostat data show.  Floating Mortgages  Variable-rate mortgages account for almost 100 percent of
new lending in Portugal and about 85 percent in Spain, compared
with 15 percent in Germany, according to the Brussels-based
European Mortgage Federation. In Ireland, 85 percent of
outstanding loans have flexible rates.  The prospect of higher interest rates may also drive the
euro higher, denting export returns for nations like Germany
which rely on foreign sales to fuel economic growth.  The euro has already appreciated 7 percent against the
dollar this year to more than $1.43 yesterday, a 14-month high.
Euro-area manufacturing growth slowed in March and economic
confidence fell, signaling the recovery in some countries may
have peaked.  Still, the ECB is unlikely to move at a speed that will
choke economic growth, according to  Frankfurt  Trust’s Kind.  “Even if the ECB hikes as much as expected this year,
inflation rates will remain higher than interest rates. That’s
still a far cry from being restrictive,” he said.  When Trichet kicked off the last tightening cycle in
December 2005, he said then that “we have not taken any ex-ante
decision to embark on a series of interest-rate increases.” The
central bank went on to lift its key rate from 2 percent to 4.25
percent by July 2008.  This time around, “I don’t think it’s one and done,” said
 David Bloom , global head of currency strategy at HSBC Holdings
Plc in London. “They will continue to raise rates, but I don’t
think it will be a very aggressive tightening cycle.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  