-- 
Robert De Niro Art Dealer Leigh Morse Found Guilty in New York Fraud Case

-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 
2011-04-06T19:41:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/robert-de-niro-art-dealer-leigh-morse-found-guilty-in-new-york-fraud-case.html
Leigh Morse , the former director of
Salander-O’Reilly Galleries and once an art dealer for actor
Robert De Niro, was convicted in a scheme that prosecutors said
defrauded the estates of artists including painter Stuart Davis.  Morse, 55, was found guilty today by a  New York  jury of one
count of scheming to defraud. She was found not guilty of a
grand larceny count alleging the theft of $65,000 from De Niro,
who testified at the trial in New York state  Supreme Court  in
Manhattan. The jury of eight men and four women reached a
decision in its fifth day of deliberations.  Prosecutors said Morse withheld information about sales to
the owners of artworks so they wouldn’t demand payment and that
she pocketed the $65,000 proceeds from the 2007 sale of two
paintings by De Niro’s late father that the actor inherited,
without the actor’s knowledge.  “Because the art industry is largely unregulated, it is
particularly important to hold accountable those who
fraudulently handle works of art entrusted to them,”  Manhattan 
District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. said in a statement after the
verdict. Morse is scheduled to be sentenced June 3.  Morse, who didn’t react when the verdict was read, remains
free on $75,000 bail. She left the courtroom without answering
reporters’ questions.  Vance said in the statement that Morse sold more than 80
artworks, valued at $5 million, from four estates without
notifying them. Andrew Lankler, Morse’s lawyer, had no comment
after the verdict was announced.  Salander Pleads  Lawrence Salander , the gallery’s president, pleaded guilty
to 30 counts of fraud and grand larceny a year ago and is
serving 6 to 18 years in prison. Prosecutors said he ran a  Ponzi
scheme  out of his Upper East Side gallery to finance spending
sprees in Renaissance art and an extravagant lifestyle for him
and his wife and seven children.  Witnesses at the trial included De Niro and other
consignors of art, plus former employees and customers of the
gallery, which was based in a rented neo-Italian limestone
mansion that’s now on sale for  $50 million .  Andrew Kelly, a former top assistant to Salander who
pleaded guilty to fraud and grand larceny, testified for the
prosecution.  Steven Harvey, who also worked at the gallery, pleaded
guilty in March 2009 to falsifying business records and agreed
to make restitution payments of $507,800 over three years. He
didn’t testify. Nor did Salander or Morse, who now runs her own
gallery.  First Class  The gallery’s inventory of art, valued at cost, quadrupled
in three years to $89.3 million in January 2006, according to
Maryann Cohen, a bookkeeper at the gallery. Employees flew first
class and stayed in deluxe hotels, she said.  “There were limousine bills, car service, nobody took
taxis,” Cohen testified. The gallery declared bankruptcy in
November 2007.  Earl Davis, son of modernist artist Stuart Davis, testified
that he became a close friend of Salander and “came to trust
him completely.” He said he later learned the gallery had sold
dozens of works by his father, who died in 1964, without
informing or paying him. Prosecutors said Morse sold several of
the works.  Morse was primarily a saleswoman at the gallery, Lankler
said in his closing statement. Morse was owed $315,000 in back
commissions when she left in mid-2007, he said. Lankler said
that telling consignors about sales was Salander’s job, not
Morse’s.  ‘Not a Crime’  “It’s not a crime not be a hero,” Lankler said.  Morse followed a “don’t ask, don’t tell policy” to
mislead consignors about sales, Assistant District Attorney Kenn
Kern said in his opening statement.  Stanley Cohen, a 57-year-old juror who works for the city’s
Department of Environmental Protection, said the jury agreed.  As for grand larceny, most jurors believed it was lawful
for Morse to arrange that proceeds from a sale of  Robert De Niro 
Sr. paintings be wired into her personal bank account because
the gallery may have paid him later, Cohen said.  “If he’s eventually compensated, there’s no crime,” Cohen
said.  Cohen said that while he wanted to convict on the charge,
it was “hopeless” as most jurors were resolute to acquit.  Stan Rosenfeld, a De Niro spokesman, didn’t respond to an
e-mail seeking comment.  The case is People v. Morse, 09-03581, New York State
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 