-- 
Robert Walters Net Fee Income Grows on Europe, Asia Pacific

-- B y   R e n e e   L a w r e n c e
-- 
2011-04-06T16:19:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/robert-walters-says-net-fee-income-grew-on-europe-asia-pacific.html
Robert Walters Plc (RWA) , a U.K.
recruitment agency, said group net fee income rose 23 percent in
the first quarter, boosted by a “solid performance” in Asia
Pacific and  Europe .  Group net fee income, or gross profit, for the first
quarter climbed to 40.1 million pounds ($65.5 million) from 32.6
million pounds a year ago, the London-based company said in a
Regulatory News Service statement today. The company’s net cash
position was more than 20 million pounds at March 31, up from
15.6 million pounds a year ago.  “As stated in our recent year-end results, the outlook for
the year remains broadly positive,” Chief Executive Officer
 Robert Walters  said in the statement, “We continue to pursue
our strategy of international expansion, having chosen Brazil,
 China  and Germany as new markets providing strong opportunities
for growth.”  Hays Plc (HAS) , Britain’s biggest recruitment agency, said in
February it may expand its operations in Latin America, such as
in Chile and Colombia.  Robert Walters net fee income in Asia Pacific grew 29
percent in the first quarter while net fee income in Europe rose
32 percent during the period. The recruiter said today its
operations in Japan, which were affected by a massive earthquake
which struck the island nation in March, are now operational.  “We believe the strength in other regions will offset the
impact from the Japanese earthquake,” Henry Carver, an analyst
with Peel Hunt LLP, said in an e-mailed note to investors.
Carver recommends buying the stock.  Robert Walter shares added 4 percent to close at 320 pence
at 4:30 p.m. in  London , giving the recruiter a market value of
245 million pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Lawrence in London at 
 rlawrence7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  