-- 
Russian RTS Stock-Index Futures Decline on Inflation Concern

-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 
2011-04-06T21:39:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/russian-rts-stock-index-futures-decline-on-inflation-concern.html
Russia ’s RTS stock-futures index
fell, signaling the Micex index may decline from a 34-month
high, on speculation increasing  oil prices  will spur inflation.  Futures on the dollar-denominated index expiring in June
slid 0.2 percent yesterday. The Market Vectors Russia ETF, a
U.S.-traded fund that holds Russian shares, gained 0.1 percent.
The Micex climbed 0.6 percent yesterday in Moscow to 1859.99,
the highest since June 2008. The dollar-denominated RTS Index
jumped 1.1 percent to 2,110.90.  “The world is watching with fear as oil prices are
rallying,” Elena Matrosova, a Moscow-based economist at BDO
International, a financial adviser that lists the central bank
among its clients, said by telephone. “Investors are worried
that Russia will import inflation with the higher proceeds from
oil exports. We are not immune to that.”  A report yesterday showed that Russian  consumer confidence 
fell in the first quarter as faster inflation eroded disposable
income and unemployment lingered above 7 percent.  Confidence slid 3 points to minus 13 after a one-point gain
in the final quarter of last year, the  Federal Statistics
Service  in Moscow said yesterday. The Economy Ministry expects
annual inflation of 7 percent to 7.5 percent, the Interfax news
service reported yesterday. Earlier, the ministry forecast 6
percent to 7 percent.  Crude oil for May delivery rose to a 30-month high
yesterday, gaining 0.5 percent, to close at $108.83 a barrel on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday. Futures touched
$109.15 yesterday, the highest intraday price since Sept. 24,
2008. Prices are up 25 percent from a year ago.  Russian Crude  Urals crude, Russia’s main export blend, may trade at more
than $100 a barrel from 2012 through 2014, Deputy Economy
Minister  Andrei Klepach  said in Moscow yesterday, Interfax  news
agency  reported. The ministry forecasts the Urals price at $105
a barrel this year, compared with $81 initially expected for
2011, the news agency said.  Exports of oil, gas and metals are major source of Russia’s
export revenue. Oil, along with natural gas, accounts for a
quarter of Russia’s economic output.  “Commodities have filled the dollar void to a large
extent, but ever-rising prices can sow the seeds of their own
destruction,”  Edward Meir , a senior analyst at MF Global in  New
York , said in a report yesterday.  Copper gained for a second day on the London Metal Exchange
yesterday, aluminum rose to the highest level since 2008 and
lead increased to a three-year high.  More Volatility  Futures on OAO Gazprom, the natural-gas export monopoly,
gained 0.1 percent, while contracts on OAO Lukoil, the country’s
second-biggest oil producer, fell 0.3 percent and futures on OAO
Sberbank, Russia’s biggest lender, also fell 0.2 percent.  OAO Rostelecom climbed 3.1 percent to 176.46 rubles in
Moscow. OAO Uralkali rose 2.4 percent to 245.96 rubles. OAO
Polymetal advanced to the highest closing price since Dec. 15 as
gold climbed to a record for a second day and silver touched the
highest level since 1980. Polymetal added 4.3 percent to 584.30
rubles.  Russian  stock futures  also fell as NATO escalated its air
campaign over  Libya  a day after a rebel commander criticized the
alliance for not doing enough to stop Muammar Qaddafi’s
artillery attacks that pushed rebels into retreat. Libya has
 Africa ’s largest crude reserves and was the continent’s third-
largest producer before the conflict began.  “We should expect an increase in volatility, rather than a
plain correction of the market, because investors are seeking
fast returns amid uncertainty over global stimulus programs and
military conflicts in oil producing nations,” Matrosova said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  