-- 
Russian Space Chief Has No Plans to Step Down, Roscosmos Says

-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 
2011-04-06T12:28:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/russian-space-chief-has-no-plans-to-step-down-roscosmos-says.html
Russia’s space chief Anatoly
Perminov has no plans to retire or resign early, said his
spokesman Alexander Vorobyov.  “This issue should be decided by the country’s
leadership,” Anatoly Perminov, 65, said today in a statement on
the  website  of the Russian space agency, known as Roscosmos. He
was responding to comments by Deputy Prime Minister Sergei
Ivanov to reporters in Washington D.C. that were published today
in the official government newspaper, Rossiyskaya Gazeta.  Perminov can’t continue to work in his position because of
his age, Rossiyskaya Gazeta reported. Russian law sets an age
limit of 60 years old for officials, which the president and
prime minister have the right to waive.  “The current law doesn’t consider the real physical state
of top officials,” Vorobyov, a spokesman for Roscosmos, said by
phone. “The Roscosmos chief can do more pull-ups than any
candidate for his position who has been reported in media.”  Rossiyskaya Gazeta reported that possible candidates to
replace Perminov include the  Defense Ministry ’s head of
procurements Oleg Frolov, and Roscosmos deputy chief Anatoly
Davydov.  Russia’s space industry suffered a blow last year when a
Proton-M rocket failed to deliver three navigation satellites
into orbit for Glonass, a rival to the U.S. Global Positioning
System. Medvedev fired Viktor Remishevsky, the deputy head of
Roscosmos, and Vyacheslav Filin, the deputy chief of rocket
maker RKK Energia, over the loss of the satellites.  Medvedev also issued a reprimand to Perminov. The lost
satellites cost 2.5 billion rubles ($90 million), while almost
the same amount of money may be spent on building replacements,
Perminov told reporters on Jan. 25.  “This was the last straw,” said Yuri Karash, a member of
the Russian Space Academy, said by phone on Monday. “Perminov
will be out soon. It is the matter of days.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net . 