-- 
Ryan’s Budget Proposal Would Aid Insurers, a Top Source of Campaign Cash

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-04-06T14:38:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/ryan-s-budget-proposal-would-aid-insurers-a-top-source-of-campaign-cash.html
Representative  Paul Ryan ’s budget
proposal to end traditional Medicare for future generations
would benefit private insurers, whose employees have given the
Wisconsin Republican more money than any other industry.  Ryan has received $672,203 from insurance employees and
their families since 1997, his largest industry source of
campaign donations, according to the  Center for Responsive
Politics , a  Washington  research group. The figure includes all
insurers, not just health-insurance companies. Employees of Blue
Cross/Blue Shield companies and their trade group gave $48,650,
his ninth-largest individual source of funds.  His proposal would transform Medicare, the federal health-
care program for senior citizens, for all Americans now 54 and
under. Under his budget plan released yesterday, the government
would provide subsidies for the purchase of private insurance.  “It’s a windfall for the private health-insurance
industry,” said  Ethan Rome , executive director of  Health Care
for America Now , a Washington-based advocacy group that supports
President Barack Obama’s health-care law. “It trades the
guaranteed health benefits for vouchers that go directly to
private health-insurance companies.”  Insurance industry  employees and their families also gave
$982,356 to the  National Republican Congressional Committee  for
the 2010 elections, in which Republicans won a House majority.  Competition Needed  Bringing private insurers into Medicare is crucial to
holding down costs and reducing the federal  budget deficit , Ryan
said today.  “If you do not address health care, you do not fix the
budget,” Ryan said on Bloomberg Television. “We want a bunch
of providers competing against each other for our business. That
gets rid of waste, increases productivity, and is better for the
beneficiary.”  Robert Zirkelbach , a spokesman for America’s Health
Insurance Plans, a Washington-based trade group, said the
industry had a “proven track record” of providing quality care
under Medicare.  In a statement, he said the group wants to work “with
members of Congress in both parties to improve the quality and
safety of patient care and to help put these critically
important programs on sustainable and fiscally responsible
paths.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 