-- 
Saft Groupe May Finish Europe’s Largest Solar-Storage Unit by Year-End

-- B y   M a r c   R o c a
-- 
2011-04-06T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/saft-groupe-may-finish-europe-s-largest-solar-storage-unit-by-year-end.html
Saft Groupe SA (SAFT) , a French battery
maker, may complete building  Europe ’s largest storage system for
a photovoltaic plant by year-end, improving the reliability of
solar power compared with fossil fuels, a company official said.  The company, based in Bagnolet near Paris, will start
installing a modular lithium-ion battery system for Spanish
renewable-energy provider  Acciona SA (ANA)  at a solar park in Tudela,
 Spain , in the second half of the year, Michael Lippert, a Saft
marketing manager, said by telephone yesterday.  The 1.1-megawatt project will be one of the world’s first
to hold electricity in reserve from a utility-scale photovoltaic
plant, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance. Storage
reduces the peak load that must go onto the transmission grid.
It also should ease the management of intermittent output from
sunshine and wind to make solar power more competitive with
generators burning coal or splitting atoms.  “We are seeing more batteries being used with renewables,
for both solar and wind,” Shu Sun, an analyst at the London-
based research firm said by e-mail. “We expect the electric
vehicle market to be a key factor in driving down the cost of
 lithium-ion batteries  used for grid storage.”  Saft, which makes batteries used in submarines, planes and
satellites, signed a three-year deal with Acciona in July to
improve the reliability, stability and power management of
photovoltaic energy.  The initial project at Tudela in northern Spain will store
energy for half an hour, reducing fluctuations in the plant’s
output and preventing disconnections due to passing clouds.  Grid Stability  Solar and wind parks of at least 1 megawatt can affect the
stability of the transmission grid, according to Miguel Arraras,
Acciona’s head of photovoltaic development.  “This project is important because we see utilities
forcing plant operators to reduce peaks and troughs in output in
the future,” he said in an interview.  Acciona’s solar unit operates 19 solar parks with 109
megawatts in capacity in addition to two solar-thermal  power
plants .  Storage with Saft lithium-ion technology currently adds
about 25 percent to the capital expenses of a solar park and is
expected to add less than 20 percent by 2015, according to sales
engineer Antonio Pome. The cost amounts to about 1 euro ($1.42)
per watt, he said by phone.  Similarly sized projects are being developed outside
Europe. Kyle, Texas-based  Xtreme Power  is developing two 1.5-
megawatt photovoltaic storage projects in the U.S. and  NGK
Insulators Ltd. (5333)  has a 1.5-megawatt system running in  Japan ,
according to Sun.  “There is more traction in markets where the grid network
is more isolated and constrained, such as islands like  Hawaii ,”
the analyst said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  