-- 
Samsung Electronics First-Quarter Profit Falls on Lower TV, Panel Prices

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-04-07T06:09:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/samsung-electronics-quarterly-operating-profit-falls-34-to-2-7-billion.html
Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s
largest maker of TVs and flat screen monitors, posted its second
straight drop in operating profit, stoking concerns rising
competition in tablets and phones may dent earnings this year.  Samsung shares had their biggest two-day drop in a month
after the Suwon, South Korea-based company said first-quarter
profit dropped 34 percent from a year earlier to 2.9 trillion
won ($2.7 billion). Sales rose 6.8 percent to 37 trillion won.  U.S. mobile phone carriers cut the price of Samsung’s
Galaxy Tab tablet computer for the second time this year, amid
surging demand for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad. Already hurt by falling
prices, Samsung and rival electronics makers are struggling to
persuade consumers to replace older liquid-crystal display TVs
with new three-dimensional models that can connect to the
Internet.  “People have only limited budgets to spend on technology
products,” said Lee Jin Woo, a fund-manager at KTB Asset
Management Co. in  Seoul . “There are all these smartphones and
tablets in the market, and their incomes are not rising. TV
demand may stay weak for the rest of the year.”  Samsung fell 1.5 percent to 909,000 at the 3 p.m. in Seoul,
the biggest two-day drop since March 8. The shares have fallen
4.2 percent this year.  Sony Corp. (6758) , Samsung’s biggest competitor
outside its local market, has dropped 11 percent this year in
Tokyo trading after shutting factories last month following
 Japan ’s biggest earthquake.  Display Division  Operating profit may be 200 billion won higher or lower
than today’s preliminary estimate when audited results are
announced later this month, Samsung said. The earnings were in
line with the average of 16 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. The company didn’t provide net income figures and
earnings at each division.  Operating income, or sales minus the cost of selling,
general and administrative expenses, at Samsung’s digital-media
unit -- which makes TVs -- probably fell about 80 percent to 110
billion won from a year ago, according to the median estimates
in the Bloomberg News survey. Sales may have gained 6.3 percent,
according to the survey.  The display division likely had a loss of 138.5 billion
won, dropping from a year-earlier profit of 490 billion won,
according to the survey. Sales were estimated at 6.8 trillion
won, compared with 6.9 trillion won a year earlier.  The recovery in spending on LCD TVs has been “particularly
slow,” as the latest models equipped with 3-D functionality and
Web-based services failed to generate fresh demand, James Song,
an analyst at Daewoo Securities Co., wrote in a March 15 report.  Delaying Spending  Different new TV technologies and standards promoted by
companies may be confusing consumers and hindering sales, said
Young Park, a Seoul-based analyst at Woori Investment &
Securities Co.  “I don’t think consumers will buy TVs easily,” he said
before today’s announcement. “They’ll think about it again and
again and delay their purchases.”  The average price for flat-screen TVs in the U.S.  fell for
a third straight month  in February as manufacturers tried to
clear inventory before rolling out new models, according to
research company IHS ISuppli.  As consumers shunned new TVs, prices for LCD panels also
continued to slide in the first quarter, according to a March 29
report by Seo Won Seok at NH Investment & Securities. The
average selling price of Samsung’s large-sized panels probably
fell about 8 percent from a year earlier, according to Seo.  In mobile phones, Sprint Nextel Corp. and  Verizon Wireless 
have cut the price of the Galaxy Tab tablet computer.  Tablet Computers  “For Samsung, there were high expectations from its tablet
computers, but they didn’t sell as well and adding to that,
there are concerns it’ll lose ground to the iPad 2,” Im Jeong Jae, a  fund manager  in Seoul at Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset
Management co.  NH Investment & Securities Co. pared its earlier estimates
for Samsung’s tablet-computer sales for 2011 to reflect lower-
than-expected sales of the Galaxy Tab last year and competition
with Apple devices, analyst Seo Won Seok, wrote in a March 29
report.  The iPad 2, equipped with cameras and a faster processor
than its predecessor, went on sale in the U.S on March 11 and in
international markets on March 25. The cheapest model sells at
$499. Samsung’s Tab now costs $199.99 with a two-year contract.  Samsung unveiled a new tablet running the latest version of
Android software from Google Inc. in February. The model has a
screen matching the iPad’s 10-inch display and is 10.9
millimeters thick, compared with 8.8 millimeters for the iPad 2.  Profit at the semiconductor division probably fell 11
percent to 1.75 trillion won amid slowing sales of personal
computers, according to the median of the seven analysts’
estimates. Sales climbed 13 percent, according to the survey.  Still, demand for chips used in mobile devices will cushion
Samsung’s earnings this year, according to NH’s Seo.  The March 11 earthquake in Japan may also lift chip prices.
Global semiconductor sales will increase more than previously
estimated as disruptions caused by last month’s earthquake in
Japan lead to shortages and higher prices of computer memory
chips, IHS iSuppli said on April 5.  Sales will probably rise 7 percent to $325.2 billion in
2011, outpacing the 5.8 percent expansion estimated in February,
according to the research company. The researcher cited prices
of computer memory, whose producers include Samsung and  Elpida
Memory Inc. (6665) , as the biggest reason for the revised projection.  “It’s not clear an improvement on the semiconductor side
alone can satisfy the market’s expectations,” KTB’s Lee said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  