-- 
Samsung Tablet Prices Cut Again in Rising Challenge to IPad

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-04-06T20:14:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/samsung-tablet-price-cut-to-200-by-carriers-in-rising-challenge-to-ipad.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  and Verizon
Wireless cut the price of the Galaxy Tab tablet computer for the
second time this year, signaling more competition for  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad.  The Tab, made by Samsung Electronics Co., now costs $199.99
with a two-year wireless-service contract, according to the
carriers’ websites. In January, Sprint cut the price to $299.99,
while Verizon reduced the price to $499.99.  Carriers are lowering the prices for tablets that connect
to the Web using mobile-phone networks to earn data revenue and
compete against Wi-Fi tablets which are available without
monthly contracts. The cheapest iPad 2, which has Wi-Fi only, is
priced at $499.  “If you’re a tablet vendor, you have to incentivize the
carrier to make shelf space for it, and the carrier wants to
sell two-year contracts,” said  Tavis McCourt , an analyst at
Morgan Keegan & Co. in Nashville, Tennessee.  Sprint, the third-largest U.S. wireless carrier, reduced
its price for the Galaxy Tab at the beginning of this month,
said Mark Elliott, a spokesman. Verizon Wireless, the biggest
mobile carrier, cut its prices last month, said  Brenda Raney , a
spokeswoman for the Basking Ridge, New Jersey-based company.  Dallas-based  AT&T Inc. (T) , the No. 2 carrier, has held the
price for the Tab at $549.99 after slashing it by $100 earlier
this year.  Wi-Fi Ultimately Cheaper  While tablets that can connect to mobile-phone networks
give the users Internet access in a wider area than Wi-Fi-only
tablets, they also require a data-service contract, making them
more expensive ultimately, McCourt said. Still, the lower
initial price and carrier promotion will help boost demand for
the devices, he said.  Wi-Fi tablets connect to the Web using so-called hotspots
available in libraries, bars, hotels and users’ homes.  “As tablets go from being early adopter to mass-market,
and the total two-year cost to the consumer becomes more and
more important, the Wi-Fi versions are far more cost
effective,” McCourt said.  The iPad 2, which has a larger screen than the Galaxy Tab,
is also available as a version that can connect to mobile-phone
networks. That version starts at $629.  Sprint, based in  Overland Park , Kansas, rose 9 cents, or 2
percent, to $4.64 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading.  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , which co-owns the wireless
company with  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , fell 4 cents to $37.85. Samsung
fell 2.3 percent to 923,000 won at close of trading in Seoul.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  