-- 
Satelites Mexicanos Seeks Bankruptcy Protection in U.S. for Second Time

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n   a n d   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-04-06T18:02:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/satelites-mexicanos-seeks-bankruptcy-protection-in-u-s-for-second-time.html
Satelites Mexicanos SA, the Mexican
satellite company, filed for bankruptcy court protection in the
U.S. for the second time in less than five years with a new
restructuring plan supported by noteholders.  The company, based in Mexico City, listed $441.6 million in
assets and $531.6 million in debt as of March 23, in Chapter 11
documents filed today in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington,
Delaware. Two affiliates, Alterna’TV Corporation and Alterna’TV
International Corp., also sought court protection.  Satmex, as the company is known, filed for bankruptcy in
August 2006 in  New York . The company exited that December after
winning court approval to repay creditors owed about
$743 million with new debt and equity.  Luis Stein, a spokesman for the company in Mexico City,
didn’t immediately return a call left at his office seeking
further information.  Noteholders, owning more than two-thirds of the company
first- and second-priority senior secured notes, agreed to
support the new pre-negotiated restructuring proposal, according
to a March 25 statement.  The first-priority noteholders are owed about
$238.2 million, and the second-priority noteholders are owed
about $201.9 million, according to court documents.  As part of the restructuring and to help fund its emergence
from bankruptcy, Satmex will obtain $325 million in exit
financing from new notes or bridge financing, it said.  Rights Offering  The company will also conduct a rights offering of the
reorganized company’s equity to raise about $96.25 million. The
funds would be used to repay the first-priority notes and fund
the completion of a satellite set to launch in 2012.  Satmex is a provider of fixed-satellite services covering
90 percent of the population of the Americas in more than 45
nations and territories, according to statements. Satmex
currently operates three satellites.  The case is In re Satelites Mexicanos SA De CV, 11-11035,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of  Delaware  (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   mbathon@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 