-- 
Saudi Arabia’s Mortgage Law Advances Amid Mideast Unrest

-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 
2011-04-07T08:43:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/saudi-arabia-pushes-ahead-with-mortgage-law-amid-public-unrest.html
Advisers to  Saudi Arabia ’s king
approved a long-delayed overhaul of the country’s mortgage law
after the monarch pledged more than $82 billion to fund
homebuilding, at a time governments across the Middle East are
offering concessions to quell political unrest.  The Shura Council agreed on its final amendments to the law
and passed it to King Abdullah Bin Abdulaziz for final approval,
according to Saad Mariq, deputy chairman of the council’s
finance committee.  “The law will propel the creation of private mortgage-
finance companies and banks will infuse a lot of money into
mortgages,” Mariq said in a telephone interview on April 5. “I
expect to see the injection of tens of billions of riyals into
the sector as a result.”  King Abdullah  promised to increase spending on housing
after popular protests led to the overthrow of governments in
Egypt and  Tunisia  and targeted regimes from  Syria  to  Bahrain .
Saudi Arabia’s mortgage law will change the way home finance is
regulated, from registering mortgages to prosecuting police
officers who refuse to carry out eviction orders. The law,
debated for a 10 years, will give rise to a private lending
market that Capitas Group International estimates at $32 billion
a year for the next decade.  Change Happening Overnight  “Plans that have been in the pipeline for 10 years are
happening overnight because of the realization of the need for
change,”  Alexis Antoniades , assistant professor of economics at
 Georgetown University ’s school of foreign services, said in a
phone interview from Qatar. “The change either has to come from
within the system or it will come from outside, and if it’s the
latter it can destabilize the place.”  On March 18, the king announced a plan to spend $67 billion
to build 500,000 homes and turned the country’s housing
authority into a ministry with a budget of 15 billion riyals ($4
billion). Three weeks earlier he pledged to increase funding for
housing by $15 billion.  The Shura council cleared a hurdle that had delayed the
mortgage legislation for months on March 27 by passing rules
that define the provider of a loan as the owner of a property
rather than the borrower. That’s likely to create a smoother
foreclosure process and removes a legal ambiguity that has
deterred banks from lending, Mariq said. The council also
resolved disputes on mortgage securitization and approved
penalties for violations of the rules. The king and the council
of ministers now have sole responsibility for any other changes
and final approval, he said.  Stocks Rise  Saudi Arabia’s Tadawul All-Share Real Estate Development
Industries Index, which includes seven developers, climbed 9.5
percent since the king announced plans to build half a million
homes on Feb. 18. That compares with a 1.4 percent gain for the
broader  Tadawul All-Share Index. (SASEIDX)  Markets are closed today in
Saudi Arabia for the weekend.  The Saudi government, backed by the religious
establishment, deployed troops to prevent demonstrators from
defying a ban on protests on March 11. The kingdom also provided
soldiers in March to help put down an uprising in Bahrain, which
lies across a 16-mile (26-kilometer) causeway.  Saudi Arabia’s population has quadrupled over the last 40
years to 28.7 million, creating a growing housing shortage. The
Arab world’s largest economy needs to build 900 homes a day over
the next five years to meet demand, Jones Lang LaSalle said
March 27.  Housing a Priority  The council’s quick action on the law after months of
delays shows “the king has identified housing as one of the
main problems that need to be addressed and that can only be
construed as a positive,” said Loic Pelichet, assistant vice
president of research at NBK Capital. “The problem remains, how
quickly can things move and that’s very difficult to say.”  Affordability is the main issue facing homebuyers in Saudi
Arabia, where most of the homes currently being built cater to
the mid- to high-end of the market, said  Saud Masud , analyst at
Dubai investment bank Rasmala.  “The mortgage law is a means to create affordability by
bridging supply to the user base through financing,” he said.
“What is still unclear is how they will get to the half million
homes in the next five years and how many people could qualify
for mortgages. It’s not that many.”  The regional unrest is becoming a catalyst for efforts to
bring more people into the economic mainstream, though the
government has limited scope to encourage banks to lend more,
Masud said. Many people won’t be able to afford existing homes
and construction of houses for mid- and low-income buyers could
take a long time, he added.  Distributing Wealth  “Housing is one of the fastest ways to redistribute wealth
to the people,” Georgetown economist Antoniades said. “It
would also employ a lot of people as the construction and other
support industries grow, creating a movement in the economy.”  Providing mortgages without increasing supply means more
money will chase the same number of properties and prices will
go up, said Marios Maratheftis, a Dubai-based economist at
Standard Chartered Plc. “Saudi Arabia needs to provide homes
and make it possible for consumers to get funding, and that’s
what the government is trying to achieve.”  Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest oil supplier, has the
advantage of its budget surpluses when it comes to increasing
spending to combat social tensions, Maratheftis said. The
jobless rate is as high as 43 percent for Saudis between the
ages of 20 and 24.  Money to Spend  “They have been accumulating surpluses for years and if
they need to increase spending, they’re very much able to do
so,” he said.  Saudi Arabia’s economy is likely to grow 5.5 percent this
year on higher oil output and state spending, Banque Saudi
Fransi said on April 4, raising its earlier forecast of 4.2
percent. The bank, Saudi Arabia’s fourth-largest by market
value, raised its 2011 state expenditure forecast by 25 percent
to $225 billion.  The kingdom, which in 2008 allocated $400 billion for
infrastructure development in five years, spent about half of
that amount by Feb. 2010 and the entire sum may be used up ahead
of schedule, Finance Minister Ibrahim al-Assaf said.  “Social tensions probably are accelerating reforms
throughout the region, but if you look at what Saudi was doing
before, they were investing heavily in infrastructure. They have
been doing that very aggressively,” Maratheftis said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 