-- 
Scene Last Night: Steinhardt, Chua, Kissinger at ‘War Horse’

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-04-06T11:47:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/scene-last-night-steinhardt-chua-kissinger-mizrahi-at-war-horse-gala.html
London ’s  National Theatre  jumped
over the pond last night to reach donors in New York.  Taking advantage of the company’s originating role in the
play “War Horse,” now in previews at  Lincoln Center Theater ,
the American Associates of the National Theatre threw a gala.  “We entertain large New York audiences at our shows in
London, so fundraising here feels natural, organic and easy,”
John Makinson, the chairman of the National Theatre, who is also
the chairman and chief executive of the publisher Penguin Group
Inc., said.  “‘The History Boys’ paved the way,” Leila Straus said of
an earlier NT production that made it to Broadway. She is
chairman of the American Associates group.  At 6:30 p.m., audience members tucked into their seats for
the play, which follows a boy and his horse from the countryside
of Devon to the trenches in France during World War I.  The audience frequently applauded and at intermission, they
stocked up on tissues. At curtain, they awarded the puppets by
 Handspring Puppet Company  and the puppeteers a standing ovation.  As they made their way to the dinner tent, guests had other
attractions: a cavalry of trumpeters and a few real horses. The
tent was decorated by  David Stark  with teapots, a Maypole, and
portraits of the U.K. royal family members. The menu included
English pea soup, Yorkshire pudding, and stout-braised beef.  Among the 600 guests were  Michael Steinhardt , chairman of
asset-management company WisdomTree Investments Inc.; Duncan Niederauer, chief executive officer of NYSE Euronext; David A. Coulter, managing director at Warburg Pincus LLC, and Roy Furman, vice chairman of Jefferies & Co.  Fashion, Authors  There was also hedge-fund executive Caroline Hoare, who is
on the corporate advisory board of the NT; fashion designer
Isaac Mizrahi and recent authors  Henry Kissinger , Amy Chua, and
her husband Jed Rubenfeld.  Joey, the play’s puppet-horse star, clomped in the live
auction, neighing and snorting, wagging his tail, wiggling his
ears.  “He is no Mr. Ed,” the artistic director of the National
Theater, Nicholas Hytner, said.  “War Horse” is based on a children’s novel by Michael
Morpurgo.  “My goal is to inform young people about the grief and the
pain of war,” said Morpurgo, wearing a blousy royal-blue bow
tie that his wife designed. “I hate those horrible little
things that men have to wear.”  The play has been a hit for the NT, transferring to the
 West End  in 2009, where it is still running. It also has the
cachet, like “The History Boys,” of being turned into a film.
 Steven Spielberg  has directed the screen version, set for a late
December release in the U.S.  Revised Script  Judging from buzz at the party, the New York production is
likely to take off. It features a new American cast and a
revised script.  “The staging is clearer,” said  Andre Bishop , Lincoln
Center Theater’s artistic director.  “To me the most wonderful thing about the play is the
physical excitement of this inanimate object brought to life,”
said New Yorker writer Philip Gourevitch.  Seth Numrich’s disbelief is suspended while he plays the
part of the boy who raises the horse.  “Before I started rehearsal, I was wondering what it would
be like to have to pretend there was a horse,” said Numrich,
who for the party had swapped his soldier’s uniform for a slim-
fitting Theory suit. “From day one, the work the puppeteers do
is so incredible. It always feels that I’m working with an
animal -- until I accidentally step on a puppeteer’s foot.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 