-- 
SEC Fannie Mae Probe Said to Examine CEO’s Testimony to Congress

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-04-06T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/sec-fannie-mae-probe-said-to-examine-ceo-s-testimony-to-congress.html
As the housing market deteriorated
in April 2007,  Fannie Mae  Chief Executive Officer  Daniel Mudd 
reported to Congress on his company’s health. The firm’s
exposure to subprime loans, he told lawmakers, “remains
minimal, less than 2.5 percent of our book.”  Within 18 months, U.S. regulators seized the government-
sponsored mortgage firm and its smaller sibling, Freddie Mac,
after losses on soured loans pushed them to the brink of
insolvency. The two firms have drawn more than $150 billion in
life support from the Treasury since then.  Mudd’s statements to Congress are being scrutinized as part
of a Securities and Exchange Commission probe, according to a
person briefed on the matter. Regulators may be examining what
Mudd knew about the loans and how he defined subprime when he
testified before the House Financial Services Committee.  The questions are part of a larger investigation into
whether Washington-based Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac of McLean,
 Virginia , told investors enough about the risky loans they
loaded into their portfolios as the credit crisis loomed,
according to two other people with direct knowledge of the
investigation.  The SEC has already sent so-called Wells notices --
warnings that the staff intends to pursue a civil enforcement
action -- to Mudd and at least three other former executives of
the firms. If claims are filed, the probe could become one of
the widest to emerge from the financial crisis.  The investigation echoes the agency’s case against
 Citigroup Inc. (C) , which agreed in July to pay $75 million after
the SEC accused the bank and two executives of failing to
disclose $40 billion in subprime assets before losses surged.  Freddie CEO  At the same April 2007 hearing where Mudd testified,
Richard Syron, who was then the CEO of Freddie Mac and has also
received a Wells notice, said his firm hadn’t “been heavily
involved in subprime all along.”  Others who have acknowledged receiving Wells notices are
Donald Bisenius, Freddie Mac’s former executive vice president
for single-family credit guarantee, and Anthony “Buddy” Piszel, Freddie Mac’s chief financial officer from November 2006
to September 2008.  Last week, U.S. District Judge  John Keenan  in  New York 
threw out a shareholder lawsuit alleging that Freddie Mac, Syron
and Piszel misrepresented the firm’s investments in risky
mortgage products and hid its true financial condition through
“a series of partial disclosures.” Keenan said the lawsuit
failed to prove intentional fraud and he dismissed the suit
without prejudice, meaning others can file similar claims.  In the SEC’s case, regulators could file civil claims
contending that the executives intentionally misled the public
or, in a lesser allegation, that they should have known their
statements were misleading.  ‘Disagree’ with SEC  Bisenius didn’t return a phone call seeking comment. Piszel
declined to comment through his assistant at  Santa Ana ,
California-based  CoreLogic Inc. (CLGX)  Mark Hopson, Syron’s attorney at
Sidley Austin LLP in Washington, didn’t respond to an e-mail
seeking comment.  Mudd has been CEO of  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG)  since
2009. He confirmed in a March 11 statement that he’d received
the Wells notice, saying he “could not disagree more” with the
SEC staff’s decision to pursue claims. “These disclosures and
procedures that are subject of the staff’s investigation were
accurate and complete,” he said.  During Mudd’s tenure as CEO of Fannie Mae, from 2004
through the government takeover in 2008, the firm ramped up its
business with lower-quality mortgages. Mudd said in a 2006
interview that he planned to expand the companies’ holdings to
include more higher-risk loans. Anything else would be
“counterproductive,” he told investors in March of that year.  Narrow Definition  Just how much of Fannie Mae’s  portfolio  was subprime by
2007 depends on how loans are categorized. Regulators may
question whether the 2.5 percent Mudd calculated for the
lawmakers was consistent with how he defined subprime for them.  Mudd told the committee that subprime wasn’t “precisely
defined” by the industry. “About 2.5 percent of our book could
be represented as being in subprime, either by virtue of coming
from a lender that’s designated as a subprime lender or as terms
that would, generally, be considered subprime,” he said. That
echoed the broad definition Fannie Mae used in regulatory
filings that subprime loans are those to borrowers “with a
weaker credit profile than that of a prime borrower.”  The 2.5 percent didn’t include billions of dollars in so-
called Alt-A loans from lenders that made subprime loans,
including Countrywide Financial Corp. of Calabasas,  California ,
and New Century Financial Corp. and Ameriquest Mortgage Co.,
both based in  Irvine , California. All three went bankrupt or
were forced to sell.  10 Percent  While Alt-A loans weren’t considered the riskiest
mortgages, they typically came with less documentation than
prime mortgages about the borrower’s ability to pay. When the
 Federal Housing Finance Agency , the regulator of the two big
mortgage firms, assessed Fannie Mae’s portfolio of single-family
mortgages in 2008, it reported that Alt-A alone made up about 10
percent of the loans.  Including Alt-A, as much as 30 percent of the firm’s
single-family loan purchases between 2003 and 2007 “would
generally be considered subprime, even if they were not always
categorized by Fannie Mae in such a manner,” Mark Calabria,
director of financial regulation studies at the  Cato Institute 
in Washington, said in a March 7 analysis.  The impact of the risky loans was felt in 2008, when Fannie
Mae reported that Alt-A mortgages, particularly those purchased
in 2006 and 2007, made up a “disproportionate” share of its
$58.7 billion in losses. Regulators seized Fannie Mae and
 Freddie Mac  in September 2008.  ‘Thoughtful and Careful’  During Mudd’s tenure, Fannie Mae provided details of its
portfolio in corporate filings, breaking down its holdings of
low-documentation, negative-amortizing, interest-only and
adjustable-rate loans. The company also detailed the portion of
subprime loans that had low down payments and categorized the
loans by borrowers’ credit scores.  Rodgin Cohen, the senior chairman of Sullivan & Cromwell
LLP who worked with Fannie Mae on some of its 2008 disclosures,
said in an interview that Mudd “was as thoughtful and careful
about proper disclosure as anybody I know.”  “As conditions deteriorated, there was always the question
of whether you would spook the market if you said too much,”
Cohen said, recounting a 2008 meeting at Fannie Mae to discuss
second-quarter results. “Dan came into the meeting and took the
position that it was not going to be a pretty release but it had
to be real.”  Evolving Disclosure  Fannie Mae’s disclosures about subprime have evolved. In
its 2010 annual report, the company revised its definition to
exclude loans from subprime lenders that were acquired “in
accordance with our standard underwriting criteria.” Fannie Mae
spokeswoman Janis Smith declined to comment on the change, which
could bring the definition closer to Mudd’s 2007 testimony.  Freddie Mac spokesman Michael Cosgrove and SEC spokesman
 John Nester  declined to comment on the investigation.  The SEC’s probe comes amid pressure from lawmakers and
judges who have criticized the agency for not being aggressive
enough in punishing executives it accuses of misconduct. In the
Citigroup lawsuit, U.S. District Judge  Ellen Huvelle  faulted the
agency for only sanctioning two executives and imposing
“unimpressive” penalties.  Former Citigroup CFO Gary Crittenden agreed to pay $100,000
to settle claims he didn’t disclose the risk after getting
internal briefings.  Arthur Tildesley , the former investor
relations chief, agreed to pay $80,000 to resolve claims he
helped draft misleading disclosures. They didn’t admit or deny
wrongdoing.  ‘What’s the Point?’  Huvelle also noted at the time of the settlement the U.S.
government’s stake in Citigroup at the time, asking “if the
taxpayer is paying the SEC, what’s the point of all this?”  Adam Pritchard, a former SEC attorney who teaches law at
the  University of Michigan  in  Ann Arbor , said the SEC may find
it tricky to pursue penalties against Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
as companies while they remain wards of the government.  “The SEC is working under the political constraint that
they can’t be imposing penalties on a U.S. government entity,”
Pritchard said. “The executives are the perfect scapegoats.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in  Washington  at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 