-- 
SEC’s Kroeker Says Lehman Report Prompted Closer Look at Audits

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-04-06T19:44:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/sec-s-kroeker-says-lehman-report-prompted-closer-look-at-audits.html
Questions raised by a bankruptcy
examiner’s report on the September 2008 collapse of  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  prompted regulators to take a closer look
at oversight of company audits, the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission’s top accountant told lawmakers.  “We have taken the bankruptcy examiner’s report extremely
seriously,” Chief Accountant James L. Kroeker said today at a
Senate Banking Committee hearing on the role of the accounting
profession in preventing another financial crisis.  Kroeker described as “chilling” the March 2010 report by
Jenner & Block LLP Chairman Anton Valukas, which raised concerns
that SEC officials may have known about problems at Lehman
before it sparked a global credit freeze by filing the biggest
bankruptcy in U.S. history.  Officials in a now-defunct SEC Trading and Markets unit
that oversaw major investment banks “were aware of concerns
about liquidity pools” and hadn’t widely shared them across the
agency, Kroeker said.  “It’s a very serious observation in that report, but it
has been addressed,” Kroeker said.  The SEC shut down the Consolidated Supervised Entities
program in 2008 after  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  -- the only firms remaining under its jurisdiction --
became bank holding companies supervised by the  Federal Reserve 
after the collapse of Lehman and the sale of Merrill Lynch to
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC)   James R. Doty, chairman of the  Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board , told lawmakers that there are “a number of
areas where auditors should have delved more deeply.”  Doty, a former SEC general counsel who was named PCAOB
chairman in January, cited “enduring and recurring problems in
financial reporting and auditing,” specifically in valuations
and end-of-period transactions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 