-- 
Shell’s South Africa Shale Exploration Plan Should Be Halted, Lawyers Say

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-04-06T16:00:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/shell-s-south-africa-shale-exploration-plan-should-be-halted-lawyers-say.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s application
to start shale-gas exploration in South Africa’s Karoo region
should be terminated because it lacks sufficient information for
regulators to assess it properly, Havemann Inc. attorneys said.  Shell, planning to drill about 24 wells in an area of about
90,000 square kilometers (34,749 square miles), faces opposition
to its proposed hydraulic fracturing, known as fracking, in the
sheep and game farming region, an arid stretch across northwest
South Africa, from the  Treasure the Karoo Action Group , which
has 3,000 supporters and commissioned Havemann to compile the
report.  “Information about the proposed activities is incomplete;
information about sources of water is absent; information on
chemicals to be used in fracking is missing,” the Cape Town-
based specialist attorneys’ firm said.  The government’s capacity to evaluate and enforce
compliance by Shell “is in serious doubt,” Havemann also said
in the report, adding that the Department of Water Affairs “has
less than a third of the officials it needs to enforce
compliance.” Linda Page, a spokeswoman for the department,
didn’t immediately respond to a message left on her mobile
phone.  Shell said last month it expects the national petroleum
agency to decide whether to award the three permits it applied
for in three different areas by or on Aug. 12. Dennis Matsane, a
spokesman for the company in  South Africa , didn’t immediately
respond to a message left on his mobile phone.  Shale formations consist of dense rock that can be broken
apart to release trapped oil and gas. Advances in directional
drilling and so-called hydraulic fracturing techniques have
increased production from shale fields. Hydraulic fracturing
injects water, sand and chemicals into the rock to crack it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 