-- 
Singapore Exchange in Play for CME as Bocker Loses $1.5 Billion: Real M&A

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-04-06T02:03:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/singapore-exchange-in-play-for-cme-as-bocker-loses-1-5-billion-real-m-a.html
Magnus Bocker has cost  Singapore
Exchange Ltd. (SGX) ’s shareholders $1.5 billion with his gambit to buy
Australia’s  ASX Ltd. (ASX)  Putting his own bourse up for sale may be
the fastest way to recoup those losses.  Since reaching a 2 1/2-year high in the days leading up to
its agreement Oct. 25 to acquire Australia’s national exchange,
Singapore Exchange tumbled 18 percent on speculation the 42
percent premium it offered ASX was too high. Its stock jumped 4
percent yesterday after Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan said the
Foreign Investment Review Board advised him against approving
the $8 billion proposal and he had “serious concerns” about
the sale, putting the acquisition on the brink of collapse.  Bocker, who took over Singapore Exchange 16 months ago
after orchestrating the sale of eight European stock markets to
 Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  in February 2008, now risks being left out
of the biggest round of industry consolidation that he ignited
with the ASX bid. Singapore Exchange, which has a higher profit
margin than any U.S. market operator, can enrich its owners more
by selling itself to larger competitors such as  CME Group Inc. (CME) 
than trying to catch up with smaller acquisitions, according to
Haverford Trust Co. and Stifel Nicolaus & Co.  “It would certainly be in the interest of their
shareholders to put themselves up for sale,” said  Hank Smith ,
chief investment officer at Haverford Trust, which manages about
$6.5 billion in Radnor, Pennsylvania. “There’s a lot of risk of
destroying capital when you get into this merger mania
environment. Making acquisitions for the sake of getting big and
overpaying and diluting shareholders, you’re representing
management, you’re not representing shareholders.”  Acquisition Spree  Carolyn Lim, a spokeswoman at  Singapore  Exchange, didn’t
respond to calls to her office and mobile phone and an e-mail.
 Michael Shore , a spokesman at CME, said the company doesn’t
comment on “rumors or speculation.”  Stock exchanges around the world are merging to stay
competitive. More than $30 billion in acquisitions have been
announced in the past five months as companies in  North America ,
 Europe  and  Asia  try to cut costs and seek new revenue from
trading in stocks, options and futures.  Bocker, 49, who combined companies from Finland to Iceland
to create Scandinavia’s biggest exchange in Stockholm-based OMX
AB, sought to create a regional trading and listings center to
attract business away from Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd.,
which at $25 billion has the largest market value among publicly
traded exchange operators, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Biggest Premium  On Oct. 25,  Singapore Exchange  offered ASX A$8.35 billion
($8.3 billion) in cash and stock to create the world’s fifth-
biggest bourse. The deal, valued at A$48 a share at the time of
the announcement, was struck at the biggest ever premium for a
securities exchange, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bocker’s attempt to forge the first exchange takeover in
the Asia-Pacific region has foundered amid nationalism and
concern that he was paying too high a price.  While Singapore Exchange offered on Feb. 15 to give more
board seats to Australians in a concession aimed at overcoming
opposition from lawmakers in Canberra, the takeover may now
become the first foreign merger to be opposed on national
interest grounds in Australia since former treasurer Peter Costello blocked a $3.2 billion bid by the Hague-based Royal
Dutch Shell Plc in 2001 to take control of Woodside Petroleum
Ltd. in Perth.  Final Ruling  A final ruling based on the recommendation from the Foreign
Investment Review Board, which is part of Australia’s Treasury
Department that advises its top executive, is expected within
days, Bocker said. The Singapore bourse isn’t considering
changes to the bid structure, he said.  Since Oct. 15, when Singapore Exchange reached a more than
two-year high, the company has lost S$1.9 billion ($1.5 billion)
of its market value, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  While Bocker said he has other options if the deal for ASX
falls apart, the decision may leave the Singapore bourse
vulnerable as exchanges around the world turn to acquisitions to
boost earnings.  Pressure to expand increased in February when Frankfurt-
based  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  and  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  of  New York  agreed to
merge, creating the world’s largest exchange operator, and
 London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  said it would buy  TMX Group
Inc. (X) , operator of the Toronto Stock Exchange. Nasdaq OMX in New
York and  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  of Atlanta made an
unsolicited offer for NYSE Euronext last week.  Singapore Exchange has also faced increasing competition in
its home market since August, when the Singapore Mercantile
Exchange started operating in the city-state.  Exchange Globalization  “The regional stock exchanges will be moving more and more
towards globalization,” Donald Gimbel, senior managing director
at Carret Asset Management LLC, which manages $1.5 billion, said
from Livingston, Montana. “There will be a combination that
will include the Singapore stock exchange. Whether they will be
the acquirer or the acquiree, I don’t know.”  Bocker’s failure to win support for the ASX acquisition
suggests Singapore Exchange shareholders would be better served
if he looked for a buyer instead and CME would be a good fit,
according to Stifel Nicolaus’s Kevin Caron.  CME, the world’s largest futures market, would gain scale
in trading assets it already offers and expand into Asian
markets through an acquisition of the Singapore Exchange.  S&P 500 Futures  The Chicago-based exchange’s largest products are equity
indexes such as futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and
interest-rate futures based on Eurodollars and U.S. Treasuries.  Singapore Exchange offers futures on the Nikkei 225 Stock
Average and the S&P CNX Nifty index and interest-rate futures on
Euroyen and Eurodollars. The exchange also lists bond futures on
Japanese government debt. Other assets where the exchanges
overlap include metals trading and fuel oil contracts.  Both firms also operate their own clearinghouses and are
seeking to process over-the-counter transactions.  A CME deal “makes sense,” said Caron, a market strategist
in Florham Park,  New Jersey , at Stifel Nicolaus, which has $110
billion in client assets. Singapore Exchange has “a
complementary Asia-centric clearing platform for equities,
derivatives and commodities. There’s very little role for a
marginal player in a rapidly consolidating world of exchanges.”  When CME announced a deal last year to become a strategic
partner with Sao Paulo-based BM&FBovespa SA, CME Chief Executive
Officer Craig Donohue said that “the growth and profit
opportunities are the most attractive” in emerging markets.  ‘Fit the Bill’  “In that sense, I think Singapore would fit the bill” for
what CME wants as it works with exchanges in faster-growing
parts of the world, said  Ed Ditmire , an analyst at Macquarie
Group Ltd. in New York.  Singapore Exchange, which is investing S$250 million in an
order-processing system that may become the world’s fastest when
it starts this year, had a profit margin of 48 percent in the
most recent reported 12-month period, compared with 31.3 percent
for CME and 34.6 percent for ICE, Bloomberg data show.  CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE) , the Chicago-based options market, had a
22.7 percent margin. NYSE Euronext, Nasdaq OMX, Deutsche Boerse
and LSE had all margins of less than 20 percent, the data show.  Any potential acquirer of the Singapore Exchange would have
to win approval from the Monetary Authority of Singapore,
according to Singapore’s Securities and Futures Act. The
Singapore government owns a 23 percent stake in the exchange.  “Exchanges are perceived as national treasures and are
difficult to let go of, especially in Asia,” Larry Tabb,
founder and chief executive officer of Westborough,
Massachusetts-based research firm Tabb Group LLC, said in an e-
mail. “The first few will be very difficult.”  Overall, there have been 6,347 deals announced globally
this year, totaling $646.8 billion, a 27 percent increase from
the $510 billion in the same period in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 