-- 
Sotheby’s Raises HK$2.2 Million for Hong Kong Clean Air

-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 
2011-04-06T06:19:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/sotheby-s-raises-hk-2-2-million-for-hong-kong-clean-air-lobby.html
Sotheby’s (BID)  sold environmentally-
themed art worth HK$2.2 million ($283,000) in a special sale to
support a  Hong Kong  group dedicated to raising awareness of the
city’s deteriorating air quality.  The Clean Air Auction, held on April 4 in the middle of
Sotheby’s eight-day Hong Kong Spring Sales 2011, was the first
of its kind, said Joanne Ooi, chief executive officer of the
advocacy group Clean Air Network.  “This was a great opportunity to use a high-profile art
event to educate people about how Hong Kong pollution is
affecting our health,” said Ooi.  Hong Kong posted the highest levels of roadside  pollution 
last year since the city started collecting readings in 1999,
triggering government health warnings at least 12.6 percent of
the time, according to Bloomberg calculations based on
government data. Business leaders including the General Chamber
of Commerce have said pollution is harming the city’s ability to
recruit top executives.  About 25 percent of respondents to a survey published in
December said smog has led them to consider leaving the city
because of concerns over their health.  ‘Grey Skies’  “I’ve been in Hong Kong since 1994 and seen Hong Kong go
from blue skies to grey,” said Bobby Mohseni, director of art
consultant MFA  Asia  Ltd., who paid HK$30,000 for a series of
four silk embroideries on linen depicting decomposing plastic
bottles, bags and paper. “We really need to take action.”  Among other items, a pair of diseased lungs made of
fiberglass, rice and car paint sold for $140,000.  The funds raised through the sale of the 42 lots will be
used to support the group’s research programs and activities to
educate and mobilize the public about the health impact of air
pollution, Ooi said.  “We’re not just concerned with selling art, we care about
the environment,” Kevin Ching, chief executive officer of
Sotheby’s Asia, said at the auction. “Looking out from our
office we see massive grayness, which is quite depressing.”  Sotheby’s spring auctions in Hong Kong, which continue
through April 8, include fine wines, Chinese contemporary art
sales, traditional Chinese paintings, antiques, jewelry, watches
and ceramics. The highlights are two private European
collections: the Ullens sale on April 3, and the Meiyintang sale
of ceramics, including an 18th-century Qing vase estimated at
more than $23 million, on April 7.  Sotheby’s raised HK$648 million ($83 million) with fees
yesterday on fine art, beating a hammer-price estimate of HK$150
million.  The top lot, “Spring Mountains in Sichuan” by Zhang Daqian, fetched HK$64.5 million, more than three times its
estimate.  The HK$182 million sale of contemporary Asian art set a
record for  Zhang Xiaogang ’s “Bloodline” series, at the
equivalent of $7.2 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederik Balfour in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 