-- 
South Africa's Rand Gains to 1-Year High Against Yen on Yield, Metals Rise

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-04-06T14:10:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/south-africa-s-rand-gains-to-1-year-high-against-yen-on-yield-differential.html
The rand surged to its highest level
in almost a year against the yen and gained versus the dollar on
speculation rising commodity prices will buoy  Africa ’s biggest
economy, boosting investor appetite for rand assets.  South Africa’s currency gained as much as 1.5 percent to
12.7711 yen, the strongest level since May 4, and traded at 1
percent up at 12.7166 yen at 3:31 p.m. in Johannesburg. The rand
rose as much as 0.6 percent to 6.6798 per dollar, its highest
since Jan. 5.  South Africa’s central bank may raise its key interest rate
from 5.5 percent this year as economic growth and inflation
accelerate, some economists say, widening the difference with
near-zero rates in  Japan  and the U.S. The  Bank of Japan  will
likely keep rates low to aid an economic recovery after the
nation’s biggest earthquake on record.  “The yen remains under significant pressure as markets
assess the damage to the economy,”  John Cairns  and Nema Ramkhelawan, currency strategists at Johannesburg-based Rand
Merchant Bank, wrote in a research note. With gold at a record,
“the bias is for gains” in the rand, they wrote.  Gold climbed to a record for a second day in  New York  and
 London  as rising inflation spurred demand for an investment
haven and the dollar slumped against the euro. Platinum rallied
for a third day, and copper gained on expectations faster global
economic growth will boost demand for industrial metals. Mining
accounts for about half of the nation’s export earnings,
according to the Chamber of Mines.  Yield Spread  South Africa’s 13.5 percent bond maturing in September 2015
yields 721 basis points, or 7.21 percentage points more than
Japanese debt of similar maturity. The spread has widened from
661 basis points in November, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The rand has earned a 6.4 percent return in the so-
called carry trade against the yen in the past month, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  South Africa’s Business Confidence Index reached a 30-month
high yesterday on signs economic growth is accelerating. Finance
Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said on April 1 the economy may grow
faster this year than the government’s 3.4 percent estimate,
spurred by rising demand for the country’s commodity exports.  “This buoyancy is likely to spill over to consumer prices
and reignite inflation expectations,” BNP Paribas SA analysts
led by London-based Paul Mortimer-Lee wrote in a research note.
“If this scenario materializes and inflation moves to the upper
area of the target range, the  Reserve Bank  will likely initiate
rate hikes, which will be positive for the rand.”  ECB Rate  The rand’s advance tracked the euro, which rallied to more
than a 14-month high against the dollar before the  European
Central Bank  meets tomorrow to decide on interest rates. The ECB
will raise its main rate by 25 basis points from a record low of
1 percent tomorrow, according to all 57 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Government bonds  gained. The 13.5 security due 2015 climbed
4 cents to 121.28 rand, cutting the yield 2 basis points to 7.73
percent. The 10.5 percent bond due 2026 advanced 53 cents to
114.93 rand, the highest on a closing basis since Feb. 22,
driving the yield down 6 basis points to 8.73 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net . 