-- 
South Korea to Create Online Exchange for Oil Products in Inflation Fight

-- B y   B o m i   L i m   a n d   S h i n h y e   K a n g
-- 
2011-04-06T05:09:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/south-korea-to-create-online-exchange-for-oil-products-in-inflation-fight.html
South Korea  said it will create an
online exchange for oil products and increase fuel-price
monitoring as it steps up pressure on refiners to bear more of
the cost for fighting inflation.  The exchange will open by year-end and the government may
establish a futures market for oil products in 2012, the
Ministry of Knowledge Economy said in an e-mailed statement
today. South  Korea  will also scrutinize refiners to ensure they
show “social responsibility,” according to the statement.  SK Innovation Co., the nation’s largest refiner, tumbled 10
percent on the Korea Exchange April 4 after making price cuts
that it said would reduce profitability.  S-Oil Corp. (010950) , GS Caltex
Corp. and Hyundai Oilbank Co. said they would follow suit after
inflation breached President  Lee Myung Bak ’s 3 percent target
for the past seven months.  "Oil refiners risk hurting  shareholder value  with price
cuts and not even the government has the right to do that," said
Chang In Whan, president of Seoul-based KTB Asset Management
Co., which oversees the equivalent of $11 billion. "The
government should contain inflation by using macroeconomic
policies, not by controlling a couple of industries. It just
won’t work.’’  The  Bank of Korea  raised the benchmark interest rate to 3
percent from a record-low 2 percent in four moves starting in
July. It hasn’t been enough to slow accelerating inflation,
which climbed to a 29-month high in March of 4.7 percent.  ‘Tighten Your Belts’  “Now is the time when the government and businesses need
to cooperate more than ever,” Lee said at a Jan. 24 meeting
with business chiefs including SK Innovation Chairman Chey Tae Won, Samsung Electronics Co. Chairman Lee Kun Hee,  Hyundai Motor
Co. (005380)  Chairman  Chung Mong Koo . “Please tighten your belts again
this year to help Korea overcome difficulties once more.”  Lee declared “war” on inflation in January and he and his
ministers identified prices for oil, food, housing,
telecommunications and education as areas of concern.  Posco, South Korea’s biggest steelmaker, may have delayed
raising prices, even as raw material costs increased, to
cooperate with the government, said Byun Jong Man, an analyst at
LIG Investment & Securities Co. The market had expected the
price increases to be announced by early this month, he said.  ‘Inflation Target’  No decision has been made on price changes, including the
timing and how much they will be increased, Chung Jae Woong, a
spokesman at Pohang, South Korea-based  Posco (005490) , said by telephone
on April 5. Posco Chief Executive Officer Chung Joon Yang told
Lee on Jan. 24 that steelmakers are “trying vigorously to help
meet the government’s 3 percent inflation target,” the
president’s office said.  Shin Joong Kyung, a professor at the Global
Entrepreneurship Center of Hanyang University in  Seoul , said
Lee’s administration is "dumping" the responsibility for
controlling prices onto companies. Refiners are easy targets for
the government as there are only a few of them in South Korea
and lowering fuel costs can deliver "fast and effective" impact
for individual consumers and other industries, he said.  “The government is distorting the invisible hand of the
market and meddling with corporate decisions,” Shin said.
“This kind of government influence over the private sector
intensifies investment uncertainties.”  South Korea’s Kospi stock index is priced at 10.82 times
this year’s forecast earnings, the lowest among Asian markets
except Vietnam and  Pakistan .  Losing Popularity  Lee is three years into the single five-year presidential
term allowed under South Korea’s constitution. His  Grand
National Party  is seeking to bolster its popularity ahead of an
election next year for members of the National Assembly after an
unexpected defeat in local elections in June last year.  Lee’s approval rating has nearly halved to 36 percent since
he came to power in February 2008, according to Seoul-based
 Realmeter ’s March 28-April 1 poll that had a margin of error of
1.4 percentage point. His popularity fell as low as 16.9 percent
low during protests over plans to lift an import ban on U.S.
beef less than four months after taking office.  The recovery in popularity was helped by an economic
rebound, driven by exporters such as Samsung Electronics,  Asia ’s
largest maker of semiconductor, flat screens and mobile phones,
and Hyundai Motor, the country’s biggest carmaker.  ‘Bearing Losses’  SK Innovation will cut gasoline and diesel prices by 100
won (9 cents) per liter for three months, starting tomorrow. It
may cost the company 245 billion won, or 8 percent of estimated
2011 operating profit, Lee In Jae, an analyst at KB Investment &
Securities Co. wrote in an April 4 report.  “It really wasn’t an easy decision as we would be bearing
losses from the price cuts,” Seoul-based SK Innovation said
April 3 in an e-mailed statement. “We hope our cooperation with
government efforts to control prices will help revive the Korean
economy.”  S-Oil agreed to the same cuts as SK Innovation, it said in
a statement yesterday while GS Caltex said it plans to lower
prices and will announce details later. Hyundai Oilbank will
also reduce prices by the same amount, according to an e-mailed
statement today.  Shares of Seoul-based S-Oil dropped 5.6 percent on April 4
while GS Caltex’s parent,  GS Holdings (078930) , fell 7.5 percent. Still,
South Korea refiners have risen in Seoul trading during the last
month as they benefited from disruptions to rivals in  Japan 
following an earthquake and higher returns from processing crude
oil as the global economy recovers.  ‘Arm Twisting’  South Korean companies respond to government pressure
because they fear retaliation in the form of probes by
prosecutors and tax authorities, said Kim Sang Jo, executive
director at Solidarity for Economic Reform, a Seoul-based civic
group that promotes corporate governance.  “The government has so many ways to create substantial
costs to companies that don’t cooperate,” said Kim, also a
professor of international trade at Hansung University in Seoul.
“It would be hard for companies to escape the government’s arm
twisting, even if it means having to incur losses and hurt their
shareholders.”  The Ministry of  Knowledge Economy  said state-led surveys
showed the current fuel-pricing system is South Korea is
“restricting competition” and sometimes results in a gap
between global and domestic prices.  The planned on-line market for oil products will reflect
local supply and demand, reducing the impact of volatile
international fuel prices that refiners typically use as their
benchmark, the government said. Under the plan, South Korean
gasoline stations will be able to buy directly from the
exchange.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net ;
Shinhye Kang in Seoul at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  