-- 
South Korea May Combine Daewoo Securities With Woori Investment, Kim Says

-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 
2011-04-07T01:30:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/south-korea-may-combine-daewoo-securities-with-woori-investment-kim-says.html
South Korea  may merge Daewoo
Securities Co. and Woori Investment & Securities Co. to leapfrog
Samsung Securities Co. and spark takeovers in the brokerage
industry, the head of the Financial Services Commission said.  “South Korean brokerages lack the scale to become globally
competitive,” Kim Seok Dong, chairman of the regulator, said in
an interview on April 5. “We’ll encourage industry
consolidation through mergers and acquisitions and reduce
regulation so they can expand into new businesses.”  Kim, 57, who started his three-year term on Jan. 3, said
the nation needs a small number of dominant and competitive
investment banks to serve the local financial market and to
support South Korean companies in large overseas projects.
Contractors for nuclear  power plants  and urban development
projects would be more successful if they had a big South Korean
investment bank to work with, he said.  “Creating a bigger securities firm would be a promising
first step as we have little knowledge and experience in
international deals,” said Chang In Whan, chief executive
officer at KTB Asset Management Co. in Seoul, which oversees the
equivalent of $11 billion. “Government-led mergers of Daewoo
and Woori may trigger industry-wide consolidation.”  A merger of the two firms is “one of the options,” said
Kim, who added that he is seeking views from the industry,
academic experts and policy makers about how to strengthen South
Korean securities companies.  Attract Foreigners  Kim said South Korea’s first big brokerage is likely to
appear within his term as head of the regulator. He also said
the nation needs to attract financial-industry experts from
abroad to bolster skills at local securities firms.  Daewoo Securities rose 0.2 percent to 23,150 won at 10:28
a.m. in Seoul trading and Woori Investment slipped 0.2 percent
to 20,600 won. The benchmark  Kospi index (KOSPI)  fell 0.2 percent.  “South Korea is competitive enough and experienced enough
to do these projects,” Kim said. “What we’re lacking is how we
can support them through finance.”  The FSC is reviving efforts to sell Woori Finance Holdings
Co., the parent of Woori Investment, after the government halted
a plan to divest its 57 percent stake in December due to a lack
of interest from buyers. Woori Investment is South Korea’s
third-largest securities firm by market value, trailing Daewoo
Securities, the second biggest, and leader Samsung.  KDB Privatization  Daewoo Securities is controlled by KDB Financial Group Inc.,
a state-owned company that’s also slated for privatization. KDB
plans an initial stock sale this year and the government aims to
sell an unspecified number of shares by May 2014.  The FSC wants to remove regulatory barriers to investment-
banking growth and provide incentives for brokers to enter into
new businesses, Kim said, without specifying which rules will be
eliminated as the discussions are ongoing.  The commission also plans to ease restrictions to allow
domestic investors to create  hedge funds , he said. Kim has vowed
to overhaul capital-market rules as part of President  Lee Myung Bak ’s pledge to make the financial industry more competitive.  South Korean builders may win more than $70 billion of
overseas orders this year, the Transport Ministry estimates.  The nation also aims to build 80 nuclear reactors overseas,
worth $400 billion, by 2030, according to the Ministry of
 Knowledge Economy . South Korea’s failure to reach an agreement
last year to build a nuclear plant for  Turkey  was due to the
“low funding capability” of its financial industry, lawmakers
including Lee Sung Nam of the opposition  Democratic Party  said
at the time.  Asset growth at the National Pension Service also
underscores the need for larger securities firms in South Korea,
Kim said. The government-run fund is the country’s biggest
investor with 324 trillion won of assets at the end of 2010, a
figure that it estimates will climb to 488 trillion won by 2015.  Large brokerages would create a “virtuous circle” by
enhancing profits from overseas projects and utilizing the
country’s growing wealth, Kim said. “I expect South Korea to
become a financial power with these efforts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in  Seoul  at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  