-- 
Stanford Bank Records Fight Belongs Under Hague, Judge Says

-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 
2011-04-06T23:30:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/stanford-s-societe-generale-records-fight-belongs-at-the-hague-judge-says.html
R. Allen Stanford’s court-appointed
receiver should pursue Swiss banking records he says are held by
a unit of Paris-based Societe Generale through the Hague
Convention and not U.S. courts, a federal judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge David Godbey in  Dallas  today rejected
court-appointed receiver Ralph Janvey’s request for an order
compelling a Lausanne, Switzerland-based unit of the Paris bank
to produce its records of any accounts held by Stanford
personally or through one of his businesses since Jan. 1, 2000.  “If the Swiss authorities agree with this court that the
receiver is simply seeking production of his own banking
records, then the receiver may easily obtain what he needs,”
Godbey said in the ruling.  Stanford is civilly and criminally accused by the U.S. of
leading a $7 billion investment-fraud scheme through the sale of
certificates of deposit by Antigua-based Stanford International
Bank Ltd. He has denied any wrongdoing.  The financier allegedly routed more than $100 million in
investor funds through the Swiss bank accounts, Janvey told the
judge in Feb. 22 court papers. The judge heard arguments on the
issue Feb. 28.  Responding to the receiver’s demand,  Societe Generale (GLE) 
lawyers told the court their client is bound by Swiss banking
secrecy laws, the violation of which could result in their being
prosecuted.  Punishment Threat  “The threat of criminal punishment is real, including the
possibility of imprisonment,” SocGen lawyer Noelle Reed, an
attorney with  New York ’s Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP,
said in a Feb. 28 court filing.  “Swiss residents cannot avoid these laws simply by turning
information over to their American counterparts to be ‘produced’
in this country,” Reed said.  Reed didn’t immediately return an e-mail seeking comment
today.  Janvey’s subpoena had been served on a Societe Generale
office in Miami last year. The receiver was appointed after the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filed a civil
enforcement action against Stanford in February 2009.  If Janvey doesn’t get the records, he “may renew his
request” in federal court in Dallas, Godbey said.  The SEC case is Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Stanford International Bank Ltd., 09-cv-00298, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  Texas  (Dallas). The criminal case is
U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-00342, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of Texas (Houston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew M. Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 