-- 
Sweden Must Solve Housing Supply Shortage to Avoid Bubble, Attefall Warns

-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 
2011-04-07T09:19:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/sweden-must-solve-housing-supply-shortage-to-avoid-bubble-attefall-warns.html
Sweden ’s real-estate market needs a
bigger property supply instead of tougher mortgage lending rules
if the largest Nordic economy is to avoid a bubble, Housing
Minister Stefan Attefall said.  “If we don’t solve the supply side then we will have a
problem,” Attefall said yesterday in an interview in Stockholm.
“We will have to wait for a while to see if” existing mortgage
caps are “enough. Unless we kick-start an increase in the
building of homes, we will have a continued upward price
pressure, so it’s important that we work with that side of
things too and that’s often forgotten in the debate.”  Swedish  house prices  rose during the financial crisis even
as the economy contracted and unemployment swelled, prompting
the National Housing Credit Guarantee Board in February 2010 to
warn that the country was in the grips of a property bubble. The
central bank has said part of the reason it raised rates five
times since July is to stem the risk of imbalances in the
mortgage market.  “The rate rises that we’ve seen have had very small
effects” on the housing market, said Robert Bergqvist, chief
economist at SEB AB. The problem is that “there’s been too
little construction in Sweden.”  The krona slipped 0.2 percent against the euro to trade at
9.0497 at 11:12 a.m. in  Stockholm . Against the dollar, it lost
0.5 percent to 6.33247.  FSA Efforts  Since the Financial Supervisory Authority in October
introduced an 85 percent cap on loans relative to a property’s
value, the housing market has shown signs of stabilization, with
house prices stagnating, on a monthly basis, statistics office
data show.  “I’m not generally worried at the moment” about a bubble,
Attefall said. Even so, “we should keep a very close eye on the
development” of house prices, he said.  The central bank raised its repo rate to 1.5 percent in
February and signaled it will continue raising rates throughout
the remainder of the year as it tries to steer  Europe ’s fastest
economic recovery and in an effort to cool credit growth.  The Riksbank said in an April 5 report that monetary policy
efforts to steer the housing market need to be supported by
regulatory measures and prudent bank lending.  The FSA’s Chief Economist Lars Frisell said yesterday the
watchdog is ready to lower the loan-to-value ratio below 85
percent, though house prices so far appear to be moving in the
“right direction.” Attefall said he hopes lowering the cap
won’t be necessary.  Construction  The number of completed apartments in Sweden averaged
20,000 a year last decade, down from an average of 53,000 since
1960, according to the statistics office. The number of
apartment-building starts last year rose 48 percent from 2009,
when it hit a 10-year low following the financial crisis,
according to the agency.  Swedish plans to impose some of the world’s toughest
capital requirements will filter through to all areas of the
economy and won’t target the mortgage market in particular,
Attefall said.  The FSA’s mortgage cap has curbed borrowing, the regulator
said in a report this week, citing credit chiefs at seven
Swedish banks. Household borrowing growth slowed for a fifth
month to 7.47 percent in February, the lowest level in at least
eight years, after peaking at 13.23 percent in March 2006.  Housing Boom  “The signals we’ve received from the credit chiefs at the
banks suggest that we’re moving in the right direction,” said
Frisell.  Sweden’s housing boom from 1997 to 2007 lasted 11 years and
resulted in an above-trend increase of house prices by 67
percent, according to a 2009 European Central Bank study cited
in the Riksbank April 5 inquiry. Only  France  was close with an
above-trend increase by more than 50 percent over nine years,
according to the study.  Swedish house prices, which gained more than 10 percent in
2006 and 2007, also rose 2.9 percent and 2 percent,
respectively, in the following two years even as the economy
sank into a recession and unemployment surged. Prices declined 1
percent in February from January, according to the latest
available statistics office data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  