-- 
U.K. Manufacturing Production Unexpectedly Stalls, Casts Doubt on Rebound

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-04-06T09:01:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/u-k-manufacturing-production-unexpectedly-stalls-casts-doubt-on-rebound.html
U.K. manufacturing growth 
unexpectedly stalled in February as declining production of 
goods from chemicals to plastics dented the industrial recovery.  Factory output was unchanged from January, when it rose 0.9
percent, the  Office for National Statistics  said today in
 London . The median forecast of 26 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey was a 0.6 percent increase. Overall industrial production
unexpectedly slumped by 1.2 percent as oil output fell.  The report casts doubt on the strength of the economy’s
rebound from a contraction in the fourth quarter at a time when
higher raw-material costs threaten to squeeze manufacturers’
margins. The  Bank of England  may maintain its emergency stimulus
program tomorrow to support the recovery during the government’s
budget squeeze.  “We’ve been skeptical that the recovery in manufacturing
can continue at the pace it has been,” said  Philip Shaw , chief
economist at Investec Securities in London. “It will still have
a good year. This outturn probably reflects monthly
volatility.”  The pound dropped more than 0.3 percent against the dollar
after the report. It was down 0.1 percent on the day at $1.6274
as of 9:56 a.m. in London. The yield on the benchmark two-year
government bond was down 3 basis points at 1.41 percent.  Rubber, Plastics  Out of 13 categories in manufacturing, four rose and nine
declined in February from the previous month, the statistics
office said. The biggest declines were in the category of other
manufacturing, which includes furniture and recycling, and then
chemicals and manmade fibers, and rubber and plastic products.
From a year earlier, factory production rose 4.9 percent.  Smiths Group Plc (SMIN) , a U.K. maker of airport scanners, said on
March 23 that its business has “performed well against a tough
but steadily improving economic environment.”  The drop in overall industrial output, which includes
mining and quarrying and utilities, compared with the median
forecast of 28 economists in a Bloomberg News survey for a 0.4
percent increase. Oil and gas extraction fell 7.8 percent on the
month because of maintenance, while utilities output slipped 2.1
percent.  Manufacturing has strengthened from a year earlier in every
one of the past 13 months, the statistics office said. The index
of factory production held at 92.7, matching the highest since
October 2008. The pound has dropped by about a fifth on a trade-
weighted basis since the start of 2007, making British exports
cheaper.  OECD Forecasts  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
said yesterday that the economic recovery among the world’s most
advanced economies is gathering strength. U.K. gross-domestic-
product growth will still cool to an annualized 1 percent in the
second quarter from 3 percent in the first three months of the
year, the Paris-based group said.  U.K. central bank officials voted 6-3 to keep  interest
rates  on hold last month, and saw “merit in waiting” to assess
the impact of rising oil prices on inflation during the fiscal
squeeze. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  last month
stuck with a plan to eliminate the bulk of the record budget
deficit by 2015.  The bank will leave its key rate at a record low of 0.5
percent tomorrow, according to all 57 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey. They will also keep their bond-purchase plan at 200
billion pounds ($325 billion), according to a separate survey.
The decision will be announced at noon in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  