-- 
U.K. Banks May Lose $3 Billion of Revenue, Analysts Say

-- B y   J o n   M e n o n
-- 
2011-04-06T10:26:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/u-k-banks-may-lose-2-billion-pounds-of-revenue-analysts-say.html
Britain’s biggest banks, including
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , may lose a total of about 2 billion
pounds ($3.3 billion) of revenue from proposals to enhance
competition for consumer current accounts, according to analysts
at  Societe Generale  SA.  The government-appointed  Independent Commission on Banking 
may make it easier for customers to switch accounts and make
product pricing easier to understand, when it publishes its
interim report on the banking industry on April 11, wrote James Invine and Philip Richards, London-based analysts at Societe
Generale, in a note to investors today.  “An improved switching process is likely to be a goal for
the ICB,” the analysts wrote. Lloyds would be “worst affected,
given its number-one share and greater U.K. focus.”  The commission, led by Chairman  John Vickers , former chief
economist at the  Bank of England , is examining possible measures
to improve competition and to make the financial system safer in
the event of a banking crisis. It will provide a final report to
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  in September.  Lloyds, which has a 30 percent share of U.K. current
accounts, known as checking accounts in the U.S., would probably
lose 600 million pounds of revenue, while  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc (RBS)  would lose 320 million pounds and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) 
would lose 280 million pounds in revenue from such competition
proposals, the analysts said.  The commission may also recommend operational
subsidiarization, the separation of payment systems and retail
deposits from other banking operations, people familiar with the
situation said last week.  Taxpayer Return  Operational subsidiarization would probably cut Barclays’s
pretax profit by about 1 billion pounds, wrote Cormac Leech, an
analyst at Canaccord Genuity Ltd., in a note to investors today.
The plans would probably be introduced over at least five years,
he wrote.  “A time delay would also considerably boost the taxpayer’s
return from its 83 percent/41 percent respective ownership of
RBS and Lloyds,” wrote Leech.  The government is awaiting the conclusions of the
commission and plans to begin selling its 65.8 billion-pound
holdings in Lloyds and RBS in 2012 to provide a windfall before
the next election, people familiar with the situation said last
month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jon Menon in London at 
 jmenon1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  