-- 
Mortgage Deals With Banks Backed by Virginia’s Cuccinelli

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-04-06T22:05:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/u-s-mortgage-deals-with-banks-endorsed-by-virginia-s-cuccinelli.html
Virginia Attorney GeneralKenneth Cuccinelli, a critic of a proposal by other states to settle a
probe of mortgage practices, approves of separate settlements
between U.S. banks and federal regulators, his spokesman said.  The largest U.S. mortgage servicers began signing
agreements with federal regulators, including the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency, to improve procedures after
investigations found the companies conducted foreclosures
without proper review or complete documentation, two people with
direct knowledge of the negotiations said.  The settlements come as the  attorneys general  of the 50
states were growing divided over what to seek from the banks.
Cuccinelli and six other Republican attorneys general had
criticized settlement terms put forth last month by some their
counterparts as overstepping state authority.  “The AG is in favor of the federal regulators such as OCC
reaching separate settlements with mortgage lenders regarding
federal regulatory matters,” Brian J. Gottstein, a spokesman
for Cuccinelli, said today in an e-mail. “We do not have to
wait for some joint federal-state settlement. The quicker all
this gets resolved, the better for consumers and the economy.”  The states can reach their own agreements with the banks on
matters that fall under state authority, he said.  Idea Outlined  In a March 22 letter to Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller, a
Democrat who has taken the lead in the 50-state probe,
Cuccinelli and the attorneys general of Texas, Florida and  South
Carolina  opposed a proposal to reduce principal balances. That
idea was outlined in the terms Miller submitted to the top U.S.
mortgage-servicing companies on March 3.  Miller, in an e-mailed statement from his office, said
state attorneys general will continue to work with other federal
agencies, including the  Justice Department  and the Treasury
Department, and that an OCC settlement “will not affect our
investigation.”  “The settlement neither preempts, nor impacts our
efforts,” Miller said.  Scott Pruitt,  Oklahoma ’s attorney general, last month wrote
Miller his own letter, co-signed by counterparts in Nebraska and
 Alabama , criticizing principal reductions.  The  National Association of Attorneys General  is set to
meet in  North Carolina  next week to discuss financial fraud
protections. Pruitt will attend the meeting, according to his
office. Cuccinelli won’t, Gottstein said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  