-- 
U.S. Government Shutdown Would Delay Data on Overseas Trade, Import Prices

-- B y   C a r l o s   T o r r e s
-- 
2011-04-06T20:46:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/u-s-government-shutdown-would-delay-data-on-overseas-trade-import-prices.html
A partial shutdown of the federal
government forced by the budget impasse in Congress would delay
release of U.S. economic data, making it more difficult to
determine the influence on growth of the recent jump in
commodity prices.  About 800,000 government workers would be affected by a
shutdown, an administration official said today. That would
include staff at the Labor and Commerce Departments who compile
information on everything from consumer prices and the
 unemployment rate  to retail sales and trade.  “They won’t be working,” said  David Resler , chief
economist at Nomura Securities International Inc. in  New York ,
recalling what happened in 1995-1996, the last time federal
agencies closed due to a budget dispute. “It really mucked up
our ability to understand what was going on in the rest of the
economy because we had no data.”  Federal government offices closed for six days in November
1995 and for another 21 days from December until a funding
agreement was passed on Jan. 5, 1996, sending employees back to
work the following Monday, Jan. 8. After the second shutdown,
the federal agencies struggled to put out a backlog of reports.  Now, a partial shutdown of the government would delay three
reports scheduled for April 12. These include Labor Department
data on import prices for March, Commerce Department figures on
the  trade balance  for February and the Treasury’s budget for
last month. Depending on the length of a shutdown, other reports
next week could also be delayed, including March retail sales
figures, the weekly data in jobless claims and figures on
consumer prices for last month.  Extended Closure  The longer the shutdown, the more time it would take
government workers to catch up with the backlog of data, a
government official said. A closure lasting one day would
probably delay reports by a day or so, the official said.  Using the 21-day 1995-96 episode as a guide, one of the
first bits of data available after federal offices reopen will
probably be weekly figures on the number of Americans filing
applications for jobless benefits. Claims data were released
less than two weeks after offices reopened on Jan. 8, 1996.  Investors took the shuttering of government offices in
stride 15 years ago.  In the month leading up to the first shutdown in November
1995, the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 1.3 percent. In
the month after the January 1996 agreement that restarted the
federal government, the  stock index  rose 4 percent. During the
same periods, the Dollar Index fell 0.3 percent and rose 1.4
percent.  Past Performance  Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S Treasury Master Index
rose 0.3 percent during first shutdown and 0.76 percent during
the second.  Investors today are more focused on Federal Reserve policy
than on economic data, making a government shutdown less
critical to them.  “The overriding factor in the marketplace is what the Fed
is going to do, and how they’re going to do it,” said Thomas L.
di Galoma, head of U.S. rates trading at Guggenheim Capital
Markets LLC, a New-York based brokerage for institutional
investors. “People aren’t as concerned with the government
shutdown.”  The Labor Department’s employment report for March may have
helped assuage concerns about the strength of the  U.S. economy 
even as a government shutdown looms. Employers added a bigger-
than-forecast 216,000 workers to payrolls, and the jobless rate
fell to a two-year low of 8.8 percent.  Hiring Plans  Anecdotal evidence is reinforcing the government’s
information. McDonald’s Corp.’s U.S. unit is seeking about
50,000 workers during its National Hiring Day event to commence
on April 19, the company said last week.  “We all know hiring is starting to happen with or without
the government telling us,” said Rick Fier, a trader at Conifer
Securities LLC in New York. “Everyone is pretty much on board
with the economy and labor market improving.” He said
“although a shutdown is on people’s minds, it’s not on the
front of their minds.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carlos Torres  in Washington at 
 Ctorres2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  