-- 
U.S. Republican Budget Sets Likely Ceiling for Defense Spending

-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 
2011-04-06T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/u-s-republican-budget-sets-likely-ceiling-for-defense-spending.html
The U.S. House Republican 2012
budget proposal represents the ceiling for talks on national
security spending next year even as it leaves the Obama
administration’s original $671 billion request intact, analysts
and lawmakers said.  The proposal, unveiled by Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin  yesterday, provides $553.1 billion for regular
Defense Department operations and $117.8 billion for military
operations in Afghanistan and Iraq for fiscal year 2012, which
begins Oct. 1.  “That is about the most defense is going to get,” said
 Todd Harrison , an analyst with the non-partisan Center for
Strategic and Budgetary Assessments in Washington.  Harrison said that Ryan’s budget blueprint and the
Pentagon’s request for 2012 will be the “high water mark” in
the debate over government spending and reducing the deficit.  The proposal likely will represent the marker from which
House Democrats, along with Tea Party Republicans who won the
November election on a platform to cut  government spending , will
try to reduce the defense budget.  Any House proposal would have to be approved in the Senate,
which is led by Democrats. Senator  Ben Nelson , Democrat of
 Nebraska  who leads the Senate Armed Services panel on strategic
forces, said that his committee is in the process of having
hearings to “determine what the level of the budget would be
for this next year.”  “I have got to believe that it would be lower than the
topline,” Nelson said in a Capitol Hill interview yesterday.  Ryan’s Plan  The Republicans’ first comprehensive budget plan since the
November elections would cut the deficit next year to $995
billion from about $1.4 trillion now. It wouldn’t balance the
government’s books until 2040.  Ryan’s plan would slice more than $6 trillion over the next
decade out of programs including Medicare, Medicaid, and  food
stamps  while calling for cutting taxes, with the top corporate
and individual tax rates set at 25 percent.  As part of his 2012 blueprint, Ryan accepted Defense
Secretary  Robert Gates ’s proposal to yield $178 billion in
savings over the next five years. Out of that amount, $100
billion would be spent elsewhere in the military and $78 billion
would be applied to deficit reduction.  “To a certain extent, Secretary Gates has enabled us at
least temporarily to take defense off the table because he has
initiated his own round of defense cuts,” said Senator  Joe Lieberman , a Connecticut independent, who leads the Senate Armed
Services Committee Airland Subcommittee.  ‘Cut Defense Last’  Lieberman said he would “cut defense last” as part of
efforts to reduce the deficit. “Ultimately, everything has to
be on the table,” he told reporters in Washington yesterday.
Lieberman said that Ryan’s plan is “a genuine response to the
problem of debt.”  “He’s had the guts to start a genuine debate,” Lieberman
said.  Ryan’s proposal “supports our thesis that defense budgets
are not about to face dramatic declines given what appears to be
bipartisan support” for Gates’s plans, Jason Gursky, New York-
based analyst at  Citigroup Inc. (C)  wrote in a note today to
clients.  Gursky recommends buying the top U.S. defense contractors
including  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) ,  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ,
 Raytheon Co. (RTN) ,  Boeing Co. (BA) , and  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)   Appetite for Cuts  Representative Robert Andrews, Democrat of  New Jersey ,
predicted Democrats will partner with some Republicans to find
more cuts in defense.  “There is appetite in both parties to make responsible
reductions in defense spending,” Andrews said yesterday in an
interview. Starting with Gates’ efficiency proposals does not
mean “we are going to finish with it,” Andrews said.  Representative Todd Akin, a Missouri Republican who leads
the House Armed Services Seapower and Projection Forces
Subcommittee, said that many Tea Party Republicans came to
 Washington  to “cut everything.”  “A lot of the Republicans that are here are fiscal hawks
but not necessarily defense hawks,” Akin said.  Akin said that he disagrees with “the premise” that
“everything is on the table” and “everything the federal
government spends money on is of equal value.”  Providing for the national defense is a priority spelled
out in the U.S. constitution, Akin said.  Budget Fix  “All parts of the budget, including defense and revenues,
will have to be part of a budget deal,” said Maya MacGuineas,
the president of the Committee for a Responsible Budget, a
bipartisan, non-profit organization in Washington focused on
fiscal policy. “Given the need to put a budget fix in place as
quickly as possible, we need to turn our attention to developing
a comprehensive plan that can garner broad-based support. Time
is not on our side here.”  CSBA’s Harrison said he does not see any “substantial”
cuts to defense in 2012. Defense is more likely to be on the
“chopping block” later in the decade, starting with the 2014
budget, the first budget to be proposed after next year’s
presidential election, Harrison said. “Later in the decade the
situation could be substantially different,” he said.  The Standard and Poor’s 500 Aerospace & Defense index fell
less than 1 percent to 408.76 yesterday. The capitalization-
weighted index that includes top defense contractors including
Lockheed Martin, Boeing, Northrop Grumman, and General Dynamics
has gained 9.7 percent this year compared with a 5.4 percent
gain for the broader  Standard & Poor’s  500 index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  