-- 
U.S. Cites Flaws in UN’s Climate Talks, Says Treaty Effort ‘Unworkable’

-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 
2011-04-07T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/u-s-envoy-says-global-warming-treaty-not-needed-to-combat-climate-change.html
The U.S. government’s lead envoy on
 climate change  said the United Nations talks aimed at
negotiating a binding treaty to curb global warming are based on
“unrealistic” expectations that are “not doable.”  Todd Stern, the State Department official who heads the
U.S. delegation at the 192-nation discussions, said that a
meeting this week in Bangkok was “marked by struggles over the
agenda” similar to “bickering over the shape of the
negotiating table.”  The comments were the strongest criticism yet from the U.S.
of the process aimed at capping  greenhouse gases . They reduce
the chances of a breakthrough this year and may distract from 
work at a UN meeting in New York today that will sketch
options for raising $100 billion a year in climate aid.  “In the ideal world, a binding treaty would be the
instrument of choice,” said Elliot Diringer, vice president of
international strategies at the Pew Center On Global Climate.
“But new binding commitments are still years off, and there are
other options. We’ve been so obsessed with binding outcomes
we’ve largely ignored those options. It’s been binding or
nothing, and we’ve gotten largely nothing.”  With President  Barack Obama  facing re-election next year
and some of his Republican opponents questioning the science
underpinning the climate talks, the government hasn’t yet shown
willingness to set binding targets for reducing fossil fuel
emissions. Stern said the goal of agreeing to a treaty was
always out of reach.  ‘High Expectations’  “A lot of what was bound up in the very high expectations
at the start of this whole process was unrealistic,” Stern said
in an interview last night after speaking at a Bloomberg New
Energy Finance conference in New York. “I don’t think it’s
necessary that there be internationally binding emission caps as
long as you’ve got national laws and regulations. What I am
saying is it’s not doable.”  Stern’s comments suggest rich nations and developing
nations remain too divided to make progress on establishing
worldwide limits on carbon dioxide emissions. The diplomat said
talks scheduled for December in Durban,  South Africa , should
focus on writing the rulebook for institutions that would
monitor worldwide agreements on aid and forest protection.  At the UN talks in Cancun four months ago, countries agreed
to put forward national emissions commitments, share technology
for clean energy systems and establish a climate fund to help
poorer nations adapt to rising sea levels and more intense
storms.  ‘Don’t Need a Treaty’  “You don’t need a treaty to do that,” Stern said in the
interview. “You can do that right now. You say ‘Oh well, it’s
not legally binding.’ So what?”  He said a legally binding treaty of the sort envoys sought
to write in Copenhagen two years ago is “unworkable,” and
national regulations hold the key to stanching CO2 output.  “Legally binding international obligations to cut
emissions are not necessary,” Stern said at the New Energy
Finance conference. “It is the national plans of countries,
written into law and regulations, that count and that bind.”  Envoys from more than 190 nations finish a meeting tomorrow
in Bangkok to sketch out an agenda for the Durban meeting.
China, India and  Brazil  are pushing the U.S. and  Europe  to make
deeper emissions reductions. The industrial nations want
developing ones to agree to cuts of their own.  “There’s a very good argument to say the moment you make
the obligations legally binding, you will diminish the ambition
of what countries are proposing to do,” Stern said. “It would
cause people to offer up less.”  ‘Firewall’ Holdup  Stern said developing nations are seeking to preserve a
“firewall” that excludes them from commitments to reduce
carbon output.  “There are also ideas floating around that are more likely
to divert and divide than to produce results,” Stern said.
“For example, some would propose to apportion the ‘carbon
space’ in the atmosphere and parcel it out based on so-called
‘historical responsibility.’  This is a non-starter in the real
world for many reasons.”  Stern suggested the U.S. may circumvent the UN process
saying it’s “not the sole platform” for climate protection.  “It also has the potential to be a platform focused mostly
on rhetorical thrust and parry, with a thick overlay of
accusation and blame,” Stern said. “The one vision is useful.
The other is not.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  New York  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  