-- 
U.S. Government Should Install Electric Car Charging Stations, Nissan Says

-- B y   S o p h i a   Y a n
-- 
2011-04-06T19:53:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/u-s-government-should-install-electric-car-charging-stations-nissan-says.html
The Obama administration’s goal of
putting 1 million hybrid and electric vehicles on U.S. roads by
2015 is “reasonable” if the government builds hydrogen fueling
and electric-charging stations nationwide, a Nissan Motor Co.
Ltd. executive said.  “Carmakers can’t go and put hydrogen fueling and charging
stations throughout the U.S., but the government can,” Andy Palmer, a senior vice president at Nissan said in an interview
at Bloomberg New Energy Finance’s  annual conference  in  New York 
today.  There are 722 electric car charging stations in the U.S.,
with 60 percent of those in  California ,  according to the Energy
Department . There are 58 hydrogen fueling stations in the
nation, again with the most in California than any other state.  U.S. sales of hybrid and electric vehicles could reach
1.6 million by the end of the decade, or 9 percent of all cars,
Albert Cheung, a  Bloomberg New Energy Finance  analyst said in a
presentation at the conference. By 2030, sales could reach 4
million vehicles, he said.  Models available today include Nissan’s all-electric  Leaf ,
and  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Chevrolet  Volt , which uses a gasoline
engine to charge a battery.  Ford Motor Co. (F)  in Dearborn,
 Michigan , makes the Transit Connect, an electric delivery van.  U.S. government purchases accounted for about a fourth of
the Ford and GM hybrid vehicles sold since President  Barack
Obama  took office, according to government data.  Government Purchases  The  U.S. General Services Administration,  which runs the
government fleet, bought at least 14,584 hybrid vehicles in the
past two fiscal years, or about 10 percent of 145,473 vehicles
the agency purchased in that period, according to sales data
obtained by Bloomberg under a Freedom of Information Act
request. That’s up from fiscal 2008 when hybrids accounted for
less than 1 percent of government purchases, the data showed.  “Government fleets create momentum, but they’re not the be
all and end all,” Palmer said. “The more vehicles you get out
into customer hands, the more people start to understand that an
electric car is not the same as a  golf cart .”  This is especially important as  Japan ’s Nissan, GM and
other carmakers developing hybrid and electric vehicles are
looking for ways to further develop technologies. Longer-lasting
batteries would increase product reliability and help make
prices more attractive to consumers, he said.  Hybrid and electric vehicle models purchased by the
government ranged from $23,072 to $47,079. The government paid
an average of $5,281 less for its hybrid vehicles than sticker
prices, according to a comparison of the GSA purchase data with
prices collected by  Edmunds.com , a consumer information website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Yan in Bnef Summit at 
 sophiayan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cary O’Reilly at 
 caryoreilly@bloomberg.net  