-- 
U.S. Credit-Default Swaps Fall as Traders Expect Earnings Gains

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-04-06T21:53:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/u-s-credit-default-swaps-fall-as-traders-expect-earnings-gains.html
The cost of protecting corporate
bonds from default in the U.S. fell to the lowest level in two
weeks as investors prepared for a positive earnings season
beginning next week.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, decreased 0.9 basis point to a
mid-price of 92.8 basis points as of 5:36 p.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  Alcoa Inc. starts the earnings reporting season on April
11. The aluminum producer may post net income of $321 million in
the first quarter, according to the average analyst estimate
compiled by Bloomberg. A year ago, it had a $201 million loss,
Bloomberg data show. Earnings for members of the Standard &
Poor’s 500-stock index are expected to show 12 percent growth
for the first quarter, compared with the similar period of 2010,
according to a Bloomberg survey.  “The market’s starting to position ahead of earnings,”
said Michael Reiner, a New York-based credit strategist with
Societe Generale SA. “It’s generally going to be positive,
despite tougher comps.”  The credit swaps index, which typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates, is at the
lowest level since March 18, following positive U.S. jobs data
last week. Factory orders in  Germany ,  Europe ’s largest economy,
rose almost five times as much as economists forecast in
February, the  Economy Ministry  said today.  High-Yield Index  The price of Markit’s CDX North America High Yield Index,
which rises as investor confidence improves, climbed 0.1
percentage point today to 102.9 percent of face value.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  The swaps market is brushing off a government shutdown
looming at week’s end as Democrats and Republicans tried
yesterday to reach a spending compromise. President  Barack Obama 
said a stoppage would be “inexcusable.” Current spending
authority expires April 8.  “It wasn’t really much of a disruption the last time
around,” Reiner said. “Everybody’s just looking through it,
that ultimately it’s going to get straightened out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  