-- 
Ucits Fund Assets Tripled to $90.5 Billion in 2010, Survey Finds

-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 
2011-04-06T17:23:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/ucits-fund-assets-tripled-to-90-5-billion-in-2010-survey-finds.html
Ucits funds tripled assets to $90.5
billion last year as managers attracted clients seeking to put
money into the more regulated and easier-to-trade alternatives
to  hedge funds .  Firms started 129 funds last year that comply with the
European directive known by the acronym for Undertakings for
Collective Investment in Transferable Securities, Hedge Fund
Intelligence said in a statement today. The funds raised more
than $9.5 billion, according to the London-based data provider.  Ucits  allow clients to withdraw money in as little as a
day, place restrictions on leverage and offer investors
transparency of holdings that is similar to that of mutual
funds.  John Paulson ’s Paulson & Co., based in  New York , and
David Harding’s Winton Capital Management Ltd. in London are
among hedge funds that started Ucits last year.  “The main driver is regulation,” said Joy Dunbar, editor
of Absolute UCITS, a Hedge Fund Intelligence publication.
“There’s an expectation that Ucits are safer than hedge funds
because there is a certain amount of transparency and
liquidity.”  Ucits returns fell short of gains posted by hedge funds in
2010. Ucits on average rose 6.9 percent compared with an 11
percent gain for hedge funds, according to Eurekahedge Pte, a
Singapore-based data provider.  Investors are drawn to the liquidity of Ucits because some
hedge funds restricted clients from withdrawing money at the
height of the 2008 financial crisis, Dunbar said. Investors are
also aware that the liquidity terms mean Ucits may be
susceptible to runs if funds lose money and investors all try to
pull their money at the same time, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in  London  at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  