-- 
Ukraine Inflation Rose to 7.7% in March on Utility Prices

-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 
2011-04-06T16:05:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/ukraine-inflation-rose-to-7-7-in-march-on-utility-prices-1-.html
Ukraine’s inflation rate
unexpectedly rose last month for the first time since September
as prices for utility services and transportation surged.  The rate climbed to 7.7 percent in March from 7.2 percent
in February, the statistics committee in Kiev said on its
 website  today. The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of six
economists was 7.1 percent. Prices rose 1.4 percent in the
month.  Governments across the globe are trying to combat inflation
driven by food and oil prices. Ukraine wants to keep price
growth below 10 percent for a second year and has limited grain
exports to ease pressures. Prime Minister  Mykola Azarov  also
wants the central bank to cut its main refinancing rate to boost
lending to companies and spur economic growth.  “We don’t have a plan now to” cut the key refinancing
rate, central bank Governor Serhiy Arbuzov told reporters today.
“Inflation has not reached a level that would prompt us to
review the rate” which now stands at 7.75 percent, he said.  Utility prices for households soared 21.5 percent from the
same month a year ago, while prices for transportation rose 12.1
percent. Alcohol and tobacco prices jumped 18.2 percent in
March, according to today’s data.  Ukraine raised natural-gas prices for households by 50
percent last August and promised the  International Monetary Fund 
they will be increased again in 2011. The government also lifted
electricity prices by 30 percent from February and raised them
again by 15 percent from this month. Ukraine is relying on the
IMF’s $15.6 billion loan to increase its gold and foreign and
currency reserves as well as to attract investors, Deputy Prime
Minister  Serhiy Tigipko  said April 4.  Producer prices, an early indicator of inflation trends,
rose an annual 20.3 percent in March, advancing 2.1 percent in
the month, the statistics committee said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  