-- 
Ukraine Central Bank to Be on Market Keep Hryvnia Stable

-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 
2011-04-06T16:48:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/ukraine-central-bank-to-be-on-market-keep-hryvnia-stable-1-.html
Ukraine’s central bank will
continue to act on the market to keep the hryvnia stable,
Governor Serhiy Arbuzov said.  “The hryvnia rate should correspond to the country’s
economic situation,” Arbuzov told reporters today in Kiev.
“There are no threats for depreciation or appreciation.
Everything will be quite stable.” If the government meets its
macroeconomic targets, the hryvnia may trade at around 7.95 per
dollar as assumed in the state budget, he said.  Ukraine’s central bank controls the currency’s rate by
buying and selling dollars on the market. The hryvnia fell 44.65
percent versus the dollar in a year ending September 2009 as the
global financial crisis deterred investors from emerging
markets. The hryvnia has lost 0.03 percent versus the dollar in
2011 and closed today at 7.9750, Bloomberg data shows.  The central bank sees reserves, which totaled $36.4
billion at the end of March, increasing this year and new
currencies may be added to the reserve basket, Arbuzov said.  “Taking into account Ukraine’s balance of payments,
reserves” may reach $40 billion by the end of 2011 as the
central bank will buy foreign currency to prevent hryvnia
“fluctuations,” he said. “We would like to expand the
structure of the reserves by adding new currencies and we are
looking into that.”  ‘Concerned’  Arbuzov declined to comment on which currencies may be
added, saying that they are classified as “freely convertible”
by the  International Monetary Fund . “The ruble is not quite
that currency,” he said without elaborating.  The central bank is “concerned” that citizens’ purchases
of dollars increased, Arbuzov said. Citizens bought $2.7
billion in March, compared with $2.6 billion in February and
$2.1 billion in January, according to the central bank’s data.  “We are worried because of big sums purchased by the non-
banking sector,” Arbuzov said. “We are working on instruments
which would take that foreign currency back.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  