-- 
Hungary Stocks Rise to Highest Since October on Mortgage Plans

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-04-06T09:19:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/hungary-stocks-rise-to-highest-since-october-on-mortgage-plans.html
Hungarian shares rose to the highest
in almost six months on speculation the government will
stimulate bank lending by helping distressed mortgage borrowers
and implement measures to cut public debt.  The benchmark BUX index of shares advanced as much as 1.2
percent and traded 1.1 percent higher at 23,862.32 at 10:59 a.m.
in Budapest, the highest intraday trading level since Oct. 19.
OTP Bank Nyrt., the country’s largest lender, gained 1.5 percent
to 6,035 forint, heading for the highest close since May.  The Hungarian government may acquire the properties of
mortgage holders more than 90 days overdue on payment of their
loans, the news portal  Index  reported. The purchases would be
part of a plan to help distressed borrowers, Index reported,
citing Daniel Gyuris, head of OTP Bank’s mortgage unit and board
member of the Bank Association. Debtors, whose payments are less
than 90 days due, will be offered an exchange-rate cap on
foreign-currency mortgages, Index reported. The ceiling may be
set at 260 forint per euro for euro-denominated loans, according
to the news portal.  The plans to help borrowers may spur bank lending, said
Attila Gyurcsik, an analyst at Concorde Securities. “The
government is inclined to opt for a market-friendly solution”
on mortgages, Gyurcsik said by phone from Budapest.  The forint appreciated 0.2 percent to 263.67 per euro, the
sixth straight day of gains. The currency of the European
Union’s most-indebted eastern member has gained 2.7 percent
since the government on March 1 announced a three-year plan to
cut spending after relying on private pension funds and special
industry taxes to meet budget-gap targets in 2010 and 2011.  “The market has warmed to the fiscal consolidation
plans,” Gyurcsik said. “As a result, the forint is gaining.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest 
 agergely@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  