-- 
US Airways Chief Parker Sees ‘One Big Deal Left’ for U.S. Airline Mergers

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-04-06T20:45:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/us-airways-sees-one-big-deal-left-for-u-s-airline-mergers.html
US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  Chief
Executive Officer Doug Parker said he sees “one big deal left”
in the U.S. airline industry, with the carrier possibly tying up
with its three largest competitors.  “That deal could happen one day, or it might not,” Parker
told reporters today in Tempe, Arizona, where the airline is
based. US Airways is the smallest full-fare U.S. carrier, behind
 United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) ,  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and  AMR
Corp. (AMR) ’s  American Airlines .  “There is one big deal left, and that’s with US Airways,”
said Parker, 49. “I believe any of the three of them at the
right time could do something with us if we wanted to and they
wanted to.”  Parker’s comments reinforced his support for industry
consolidation after three failed attempts at mergers since 2006.
He fell short in a hostile bid that began that year to acquire
Atlanta-based Delta, and talks collapsed in 2008 and 2010 on a
tie-up with the former  United Airlines .  “They want to be prepared for whatever may come down,”
said Robert W. Mann, president of R.W. Mann & Co., a Port
 Washington , New York-based consultant. “That’s been their
consistent theme.”  US Airways fell 5 cents to $8.40 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have declined 16
percent this year.  United and Continental Airlines Inc. merged last year to
form United Continental, leapfrogging Delta to become the
world’s biggest carrier. Delta achieved that status by buying
Northwest Airlines Corp. in 2008, vaulting past American.  JetBlue, Alaska  A merger involving US Airways is much less likely with a
smaller carrier, such as  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU)  or  Alaska Air
Group Inc. (ALK) , President Scott Kirby said in an interview. Those
airlines have cost structures or networks that wouldn’t
complement those of US Airways, Kirby said.  Size matters for airlines because larger networks help
carriers attract corporate contracts for business travelers, who
are prized because they pay the highest fares. US Airways is
fifth in the U.S. by traffic, after United Continental, Delta,
American and discounter  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)   US Airways is working to keep operating costs lower than
those of larger rivals and boost revenue after its 2010 profit
snapped two years of losses. The airline has risen to near the
top of the industry since 2007 in government rankings of on-time
arrivals, baggage handling and consumer complaints.  Not for Sale  “We’re not putting the company up for sale,” Chief
Financial Officer Derek Kerr said in an interview. “Our focus
is not consolidation.”  US Airways  wants to “be in a position, if there’s more
consolidation, we’re there and ready and strong enough to make
our own decision versus being in a position where we have to be
taken over,” he said.  The company in its current form was created in 2005 when
Parker, then CEO of America West Holdings LLC, orchestrated a
merger with the old US Airways, which was in bankruptcy.  “There’s no doubt that a merger would be in the best
interest of our employees,” said Steve Johnson, executive vice
president for corporate and government affairs. “We can’t
afford to pay our employees what they pay at American, Delta and
United. Everyone would be paid more under a merger.”  US Airways workers will still be paid less after they
negotiate new labor contracts because the carrier must maintain
lower costs than its larger competitors, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Tempe,  Arizona , at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  