-- 
Volksbank Romania May Turn to Profit on Bad Loan Sell

-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 
2011-04-07T12:15:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/volksbank-romania-plans-return-to-profit-by-selling-bad-loans.html
(Corrects credit portfolio amount in sixth paragraph.)  Oesterreichische Volksbanken AG (VBPS) ’s
Romanian unit plans to return to a profit this year, after
posting its first-ever loss last year, as its sells bad loans.  Volksbank Romania SA, which posted a loss of 36 million
euros ($51 million) last year after doubling bad-loan costs, is
aiming for an annual net income of at least 25 million euros,
Chief Executive Officer Johann Lurf said in an interview in
Bucharest today. The bank plans to clean up its balance sheet by
selling 4,000 bad loans worth as much as 10 million euros
“rather soon,” he said.  Volksbanken International AG, the eastern European unit of
Oesterreichische Volksbanken, posted a loss last year on bad-
loan provisions in recession-hit  Romania  and a write-down in
Ukraine. VBI was put up for sale by its parent company in
December as the Vienna-based bank was among the hardest hit by
the financial crisis, and took 1 billion euros in state aid from
the Austrian government.  “I have a profit estimate for this year, but I’ll just say
that everything below 25 million euros would disappoint me,”
Lurf said. “We don’t plan to sell running portfolios, but
distressed portfolios.”  Volksbank Romania, VBI’s biggest unit, will probably lower
its market share to as low as 3 percent this year from 5.8
percent in 2010, as it “doesn’t want to be a frontrunner” in
the fight for new lending clients once the economy recovers from
a two-year recession, according to Lurf.  Credit Portfolio  Volksbank has a corporate credit portfolio of 600 million
euros in Romania, out of a total of 3.1 billion euros, he said.
90 percent of the bank’s retail loans are euro- or Swiss franc-
denominated credits.  “My estimate is that the credit growth rate will be around
7 percent to 8 percent, overall in Romania this year,” Lurf
said. “Volksbank should have a small increase of 2 percent to 3
percent.”  The bank is seeking to diversify its financing sources by
attracting more deposits and possibly issue covered bonds and
securing funds from the  European Investment Bank  or  European
Bank for Reconstruction and Development  for corporate and small
and medium-sized enterprises, according to Lurf.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez in Prague at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  