-- 
Wang’s Ex-Lover Loses Bid to Appeal Claim to $12 Billion Chinachem Estate

-- B y   D e b r a   M a o   a n d   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 
2011-04-06T05:34:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/wang-s-ex-lover-loses-bid-to-appeal-claim-to-12-billion-chinachem-estate.html
Nina Wang’s former feng shui adviser
and lover Tony Chan lost an initial bid to have  Hong Kong ’s
highest court consider his claim to Wang’s $12 billion estate
that includes Chinachem Group, one of Hong Kong’s biggest
closely held real estate developers.  Chan’s claim that Wang had left him the fortune has been
rejected twice by Hong Kong courts, which  ruled  his version of
Wang’s will was forged.  “The intended appeal must have a modicum of merit,” Court
of Appeal Judge Doreen Le Pichon wrote today on behalf of a
three-judge panel in denying the feng shui master permission to
appeal the case to Hong Kong’s Court of Final Appeal. “In the
present case, there is none.”  Chan will go, as soon as possible, directly to the Court of
Final Appeal to request a hearing, Kenis Liu, a spokeswoman for
Chan, said after today’s verdict. Chan has 28 days to file the
request, she said.  Chan, 51, was arrested on suspicion of forgery after Hong
Kong’s  High Court  first ruled against his version of the
property tycoon’s will last year.  He posted HK$5 million ($643,000) bail, as police
investigate the validity of the 2006 will that makes Chan the
sole beneficiary of the estate. A Wang-founded charity won its
claim to the estate at the earlier hearings.  Biggest Probate Dispute  Lawyers for the estate’s administrator last year estimated
it to be worth $12 billion, making the probate fight the world’s
biggest.  Prosecutor Richard Turnbull said today forensic testing on
the 2006 will hasn’t been completed and no charges have been
laid against Chan.  Chan “has persisted in pursuing a thoroughly dishonest
case,” Judge Anthony Rogers said on behalf of the three-judge
panel in a Feb. 14 decision, upholding a lower court ruling that
said the 2006 will was a forgery. “In so doing he has abused
the process of the court,” Rogers said.  Since marrying in 1955, Nina and Teddy Wang built the
Chinachem into one of Hong Kong’s biggest closely held
developers. Chan claims he and Nina Wang were involved in a 15-
year intimate relationship that began after Teddy was kidnapped
and he was hired for his feng shui skills to help find him.  Feng shui, literally translated as “wind and water,” is a
5,000-year-old Chinese  practice  of arranging the physical
environment to harmonize with the daily lives of people who live
within it. Feng shui masters used the practice to advise
emperors for the best locations of their palaces and tombs.  Chan’s legal wrangle mirrors an earlier fight Wang waged
against her father-in-law after Teddy was declared legally dead
in 1999. That dispute was resolved in her favor by Hong Kong’s
Court of Final Appeal in 2005, two years before her death.  The case is between Chinachem Charitable Foundation Ltd.
and Chan Chun Chuen and the Secretary for Justice, CACV62/2010
in the Hong Kong High Court of Appeal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net ;
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joe Schneider at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net  