-- 
‘Do-Right’ Buffett Plants a Misplaced Kiss: Jonathan Weil

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 
2011-04-06T23:15:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/warren-do-right-buffet-gives-misplaced-kiss-commentary-by-jonathan-weil.html
Long ago when I was a young reporter
covering the Arkansas legislature for the local paper in  Little
Rock , there was a line I’d hear in the hallways periodically
about the prevailing moral standard some lawmakers lived by when
doing the people’s business, called “the do-right rule.”  It went like this: If I’m the one doing it, then it must be
all right. This brings us to the subject of  Warren Buffett , a
longtime adherent to his own version of the do-right rule, which
has no particular meaning other than that it is flexible and
sounds folksy. The problem with this rule is it works well,
until it doesn’t. And lately for Buffett, one of the greatest
value creators ever, it hasn’t been working so hot.  Witness the harsh public reaction to the goodbye kiss
Buffett planted last week on  David Sokol , 54, the head of
several  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  subsidiaries who had been widely
viewed as Buffett’s successor in waiting.  In his letter disclosing Sokol’s surprise resignation,
Buffett praised Sokol’s “extraordinary” contributions. He told
how Sokol had bought millions of dollars of  Lubrizol Corp. (LZ)  stock
for himself, shortly before he suggested (successfully) to
Buffett that Berkshire buy the company. It was all legal,
Buffett opined. Buffett also told us that Sokol had said his
Lubrizol purchases “were not a factor in his decision to
resign,” as if that were credible.  It wasn’t until the end of his letter that I began
wondering if Buffett had lost his mind. “I have held back
nothing in this statement,” he said. “Therefore, if questioned
about this matter in the future, I will simply refer the
questioner back to this release.”  Great Oz  So, it wasn’t just some questioners who would get the
“ Great Oz Has Spoken ” treatment from Buffett. All questioners
would, which is nuts. I mean, what’s he going to do if and when
the Securities and Exchange Commission asks him about Sokol’s
trades? Take the Fifth?  This should be a defining moment for Buffett, and for the
public whose  rock-star  adulation he craves. Maybe now the world
will realize we never should have held him up -- or bought his
act -- as some moral paragon for business.  Sure, we can admire his talent for securities analysis, and
his success at building an empire and making himself and lots of
other investors rich. But let’s put to rest the exaltations
about his plain talk and his eye for strong character. He’s a
corporate chief executive officer, for goodness sake. These are
the kinds of dodges we’ve come to expect from many CEOs.  Buffett, whose record of reputational hits is long and
varied, is no exception.  Moody’s, Coke, Gen Re  He was on the audit committee of  Coca-Cola Co. ’s board when
the SEC found the company had misled investors about its
earnings during the 1990s. He stayed silent about  Moody’s Corp. (MCO) 
as it sold the public down the river with countless AAA ratings
on garbage subprime mortgage bonds while Berkshire was its
largest shareholder.  Four former executives of Berkshire’s Gen Re unit were
sentenced to prison for helping American International Group
Inc. commit accounting fraud a decade ago. At least in that
instance, after Gen Re paid $92 million last year to settle
investor claims and end government investigations, Buffett
publicly acknowledged that the company had done something  wrong .  And how much does Berkshire’s board really care about its
trusted insiders’ trading anyway? The company kept  Deloitte &
Touche  as its outside auditor after learning in 2008 that
Deloitte’s vice chairman had been trading in and out of
Berkshire’s stock while he was the  advisory partner  on
Berkshire’s audit. That caused Deloitte and Berkshire to violate
the SEC’s auditor-independence rules, the agency said last year.  That’s Independence  Rather than change firms, though, Berkshire concluded
Deloitte was independent anyway. The SEC went along with it,
which ultimately is what mattered, not some higher Berkshire
virtue of keeping up pristine appearances. (The former Deloitte
partner last year paid about $1 million to settle fraud
 allegations  by the SEC.)  Sometimes Berkshire’s whoppers are more subtle. The
company’s latest proxy lists Microsoft Corp. Chairman  Bill Gates 
as an “independent” director, even though Buffett has  pledged 
most of his $47 billion fortune to the  Bill & Melinda Gates
Foundation . That may be OK under the SEC’s definition of
independent, just not under a common-sense standard.  Another supposedly independent director is Walter Scott,
who owns 9.4 percent of the voting shares in Berkshire
subsidiary MidAmerican Energy Holdings, from which Sokol is
resigning as chairman. Berkshire’s proxy assures us these
matters were duly considered.  Related Parties  Berkshire steers millions of dollars of fees each year to
Vice Chairman Charlie Munger’s old law firm, Munger, Tolles &
Olson, where Berkshire director Ronald Olson is a partner. Other
directors include Buffett’s son, Howard. At most public
companies such dealings would be held up as examples of weak
governance. Because this is Buffett, Berkshire usually has
gotten a pass.  There is one benchmark by which the 80-year-old Buffett has
been wildly successful: “In Berkshire’s case, we long ago told
you that our job is to increase per-share intrinsic value at a
rate greater than the increase (including dividends) of the  S&P
500 ,” Buffett wrote in his latest  annual letter  to
shareholders.  That, along with finding an able successor, is the standard
by which investors should and will judge him. Anyone searching
for a folk hero to idolize should look somewhere else.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  