-- 
Washington’s Budget Battle Makes D.C. Ground Zero for Shutdown

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 
2011-04-07T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/washington-s-budget-battle-makes-d-c-ground-zero-for-shutdown.html
Washington  D.C. may be ground zero
in Congress’s war over the federal budget.  An impasse among lawmakers over how deeply to trim spending
threatens to cut off funds for U.S. government operations by
this weekend. For the nation’s capital, whose budget is part of
the appropriations bill at the center of the wrangle, that means
about 14,000 city workers will be furloughed, libraries will
close, road repairs will cease and trash won’t be picked up
until a week after the shutdown ends, said Mayor Vincent Gray.  “That’ll be a treat, won’t it?” Gray said at a  news
conference  yesterday.  Congressional Democrats and Republicans are seeking a
compromise on this year’s budget before the current spending
authority expires tomorrow. If they fail, federal agencies will
close for the first time in 15 years.  While Washington collects its own taxes and local officials
oversee spending, the city’s more-than- $5 billion budget  must be
approved by Congress and the president. The process is a relic
of the days before 1973, when the federal district first got the
power to elect a municipal government.  “This is a concrete example of what it means to be treated
as a second-class citizen,” Gray said.  In the event of a shutdown, Washington’s schools would
remain open, and police and firefighters would stay on duty,
Gray said.  Fewer Tourists  If federal museums such as the Smithsonian Institution
close, fewer tourists would visit, shrinking tax collections
more than $1 million a week, Chief Financial Officer Natwar Gandhi estimated.  “The impact on the larger economy is difficult to say,”
he said.  Lack of local power has long been a sticking point for
residents of Washington, founded in 1791. They live not in a
state but in the  District of Columbia , carved out between
Virginia and  Maryland  to provide neutral ground for the seat of
national government.  It wasn’t until 1961 that Washingtonians were allowed to
vote in presidential elections. They still don’t have U.S.
senators; Democrat Eleanor Holmes Norton, D.C.’s delegate in the
national Capitol, doesn’t have full voting power.  In a reference to the grievance with  England  that
precipitated the Revolutionary War, the district’s  license
plates  protest its “Taxation Without Representation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  