-- 
Wheat Seen Extending Rally as Corn Surge Spurs Swap in Feed for Livestock

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-04-06T07:51:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/wheat-seen-extending-rally-as-corn-surge-spurs-swap-in-feed-for-livestock.html
The costliest corn in more than two
years means livestock producers will feed animals more wheat,
strengthening demand just as stockpiles shrink the most since
2007 and driving prices 4.5 percent higher in three months.  Wheat traded on the  Chicago  Board of Trade will jump to
$8.60 a bushel as corn rises 4.3 percent to $8 a bushel,
exceeding the record $7.9925 set in June 2008, according to
Jonathan Bouchet from OTCex Group, a Paris-based brokerage.
Wheat rose as much as 14 percent in the month after the Geneva-
based analyst predicted a surge in January.  “The whole grain market is related through  animal feed 
because producers tend to switch from corn to wheat,” said
Bouchet. “Right now wheat is supported by the corn story.”  Corn rose 16 percent and wheat 13 percent since the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  said March 31 that corn stockpiles
fell to a four-year low on March 1. Higher grains costs are
adding pressure to food prices the  United Nations  says reached a
record in February, contributing to protests across the Middle
East and North Africa and toppling leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt .  Corn for May delivery gained 0.9 percent to $7.6675 a
bushel on the CBOT at yesterday’s close. Wheat for July delivery
dropped 0.5 percent to $8.2275 a bushel. Feed will account for
18 percent of global wheat use in the marketing year through May
31 compared with 59 percent of corn consumption, according to
the USDA.  Wheat for May delivery cost 23.5 cents more than the May
corn contract on the CBOT on April 1, the smallest premium since
May 2000. Wheat will cost less than corn in three months,
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said in a report April 1. That would be
the first time that’s happened since June 1984, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Wheat on average has traded $1.45
higher than corn over the last decade, the data show.  Wheat Inventories  Livestock producers may use the lower-quality soft-winter
wheat traded in Chicago or in some cases hard-winter wheat, used
to make bread, according to Erin FitzPatrick, an analyst at
Rabobank International in London. Wheat inventories on March 1
were 5.1 percent higher than a year earlier, the USDA estimated.  “New-crop soft-red winter wheat is competitive to corn,”
FitzPatrick wrote in an e-mail. “Even hard-red winter is
competitive in  Texas . This will cause some feed demand to shift
from corn to wheat.”  Wheat is expected to average $8 this quarter, according to
the median in a Bloomberg survey of 22 analysts two weeks ago.
Futures markets are anticipating $8.96 in December.  Farmers reaped 15.4 million metric tons less than demand
this season, the biggest shortage in four years, and stockpiles
will drop 7.8 percent, the U.S. Department of Agriculture says.  Corn Plantings  U.S. corn plantings will increase to about 92.178 million
acres this year, the second-largest since 1944, the USDA
estimates. That won’t be enough to replenish inventories to any
“meaningful extent,” Rabobank said in a report on April 1.  Until the spread between the grains returns to the average
over the last several years, livestock producers will use less
corn and more wheat, said Connor Noonan, an analyst at
Castlestone Management in  London . Corn prices need to rise to
curb demand for exports, he said.  “At some point the switch has to happen,” Noonan said.
“The biggest news out of the past couple of weeks has to be no
export-demand rationing of corn. The rationing will start in the
feed use and eventually trickle through.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  