-- 
Wheat Crop Conditions in China Seen Improving, Curbing Import Requirements

-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 
2011-04-06T10:10:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/wheat-crop-conditions-in-china-seen-improving-curbing-import-requirements.html
Wheat-crop conditions are improving
in  China , the world’s largest grower, cutting the risk that the
country may need to increase imports after drought hit producing
areas, Rabobank International said.  “China will remain self-sufficient in terms of wheat
supply,” said Lief Chiang, a Rabobank analyst based in  Shanghai .
Trade will be limited and most imports will be the high-protein
variety, he said in an e-mailed response to Bloomberg questions.  Wheat climbed 73 percent in the past year and advanced to
the $9.1675 a bushel on Feb. 14, the highest level since August
2008, on concern the worst drought in 60 years would cut winter-
wheat production in China, draining global inventories. The
country, also the top consumer, bought 116,000 metric tons from
the U.S. in the week to March 17, the most for any week since
July 2005, according to the Department of Agriculture.  The summer wheat harvest in China may increase from last
year and beat the average of the past five years after rain and
irrigation eased drought, the Ministry of Agriculture said.  About 86 percent of wheat seedlings surveyed at the end of
last month could be rated so-called Class 1 or Class 2, Director
of Planting Ye Zhenqin said in a report dated April 3 on the
ministry’s website. Last year’s proportion of good seedlings was
82.9 percent, according to Ye.  Greening Phase  Planted area increased “slightly” from last year, Ye said,
without giving numbers. Crops, in the greening phase of growth
after the winter hibernation, are also in better condition than
the average of the past five years, Ye said.  Some 5.16 million hectares out of a total of 14 million
hectares in the wheat regions were hit by drought, the United
Nations Food & Agriculture Organization said in February.  Improving crop conditions may eliminate the possibility the
country will boost imports. The jump in prices has prompted
farmers in the U.S., the largest exporter, to boost plantings by
8.2 percent to an estimated 58.02 million acres this year.  “We’re not expecting a crop crisis in wheat in China,”
Jay O’Neil, a senior agricultural economist at the International
Grains Program of the  Kansas State University , said in a phone
interview today. “I would expect some Chinese imports of high-
quality milling wheat, but not a big amount, not something that
surprises or scares the market.”  Wheat Imports  O’Neil, in the grain business for 37 years and adviser to
the U.S. Grains Council, said he met feed millers during a visit
to China three weeks ago. Wheat imports may be little changed at
1.5 million tons, he said. About 75 percent to 80 percent of the
areas are irrigated, capping losses, O’Neil said.  The area affected by pests in wheat-growing regions climbed
15 percent from a year earlier to 143 million mu (9.5 million
hectares), the Ministry of Agriculture said March 30. The
country will step up efforts to keep losses from pests and
disease at less than 5 percent this year, a statement said.  “The occurrence of pests, especially aphids, in the wheat
fields is the natural outcome” of the drought, Chiang said.
“With the appropriate application of pesticide and fungicide,
the negative impact should be limited.”  July-delivery wheat in  Chicago  gained 0.4 percent to
$8.2575 a bushel at 5:54 p.m. in  Singapore  today.  --William Bi. Editors:  Matthew Oakley , James Poole  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  