-- 
Sun, 3Com Tips Passed in Insider-Trading Scheme, U.S. Says

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-04-06T16:04:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/two-men-made-32-million-in-insider-trading-scheme-u-s-attorney-says.html
A former Wilson Sonsini Goodrich &
Rosati PC attorney passed mergers and acquisition data in an
insider-trading scheme that netted more than $32 million in
illicit profits, U.S. prosecutors charged today.  Matthew Kluger stole non-public data on companies including
Sun Microsystems Inc., 3Com Corp. and  Acxiom Corp. (ACXM) , according to
a  Federal Bureau of Investigation  arrest complaint. Kluger
passed tips to a conspirator who gave them to Garrett Bauer, a
stock trader who also was arrested today, according to the
complaint. Kluger made at least $500,000 on the scheme, the 
government said.  Kluger, who worked in the Washington office of Wilson
Sonsini from December 2005 to March 2011, also passed illegal
tips when he worked at Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP
from 1998 to 2001 and during his employment at Cravath Swaine &
Moore LLP from 1994 to 1997, according to the complaint.  “Kluger had access to inside information concerning
clients’ potential sales and mergers,” according to the FBI
complaint. “While at Cravath, Skadden and Wilson Sonsini,
Kluger repeatedly violated his fiduciary and other duties of
trust to the firms and their clients by providing inside
information” to Bauer and the conspirator.  The men invested more than $109 million in the scheme and
netted more than $32 million in illicit profits, according to
the complaint. Bauer bought a $6.65 million condominium in
 Manhattan  and a $875,000 home in Boca Raton,  Florida , the FBI
said.  Arrests in N.Y.,  Virginia   The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission also filed a
civil complaint against Kluger, 50, of Oakton, Virginia, and
Bauer, 43, of New York.  U.S. Attorney Paul Fishman will hold a news conference
today at noon in Newark, New Jersey, where the FBI complaint was
filed in federal court. Bauer was arrested today in Manhattan
and Kluger was arrested in Virginia, according to Rebekah Carmichael, a spokeswoman for Fishman.  Kluger “was careful to steal and disclose information
about deals on which he did not personally work, but which he
learned about by searching his law firm’s computer system,”
according to the FBI. Kluger gave that inside data to the
conspirator, who passed it to Bauer, with instructions on how
many shares to buy for Kluger and the conspirator, the FBI said.  To avoid detection, the men turned in recent years to pay
phones and prepaid cellular “throwaway” phones to discuss
their illicit transactions, the FBI said. When they learned last
month that authorities were investigating, all three men
“destroyed various pieces of evidence relating to the scheme,
including computers, an iPhone and their prepaid cellular
phones,” the FBI said.  Funneled Tips  The FBI said Kluger funneled tips before the announcements
in May 2006 that  Quantum Corp. (QTM)  would buy Advanced Digital
Information Corp.; in May 2006 that Silver Lake Partners and
Value Act Partners would buy Acxiom Corp.; in June 2007 that
Elevation Partners would invest $325 million in Palm Inc.; and
in September 2007 that affiliates of Bain Capital Partners LLC
would acquire 3Com.  Kluger also supplied tips before announcements in September
2007 that Omniture Inc. would acquire Visual Sciences Inc.; in
March 2008 that  Ansys Inc. (ANSS)  would acquire Ansoft Corp.; in April
2009 that  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  would buy Sun; in September 2009 that
 Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE)  would acquire Omniture Inc.; in November 2009
that  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  would buy 3Com; in August 2009 that
 Intel Corp. (INTC)  would acquire  McAfee Inc. (MFE) ; and in February 2011 that
 CSR Plc (CSR)  would merge with  Zoran Corp. (ZRAN) , according to the FBI.  Illicit Profits  The illicit profits in those 11 transactions ranged from
$199,248 in the Hewlett-Packard-3Com deal to $11.4 million in
the Oracle-Sun deal, according to the FBI complaint.  Both men were charged with conspiracy to commit  securities
fraud , securities fraud, conspiracy to commit  money laundering 
and obstruction of justice.  The FBI complaint also charges that Kluger provided inside
tips on  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s 1994 acquisition of Neutrogena
Corp.; International Business Machine Corp.’s acquisition in
1995 of Lotus Development Corp.; IBM’s purchase in 1996 of
Tivoli Systems Inc.; Unilever’s 1996 acquisition of Helene
Curtis Industries Inc.; and America Online Inc.’s acquisition in
1999 of MovieFone Inc.  Agents from the FBI and  Internal Revenue Service  executed a
search warrant at the conspirator’s home on March 8 and
confronted him about suspicious trades and “numerous instances
of structuring cash into and out of” his account, according the
complaint. The conspirator then talked to Kluger on March 17 in
a phone call cited in the complaint.  ‘Expressed Concern’  Kluger “expressed concern that law enforcement could tie
him” to the conspirator, “admitted he was the source of the
inside information and described obtaining documents from the
Wilson Sonsini document system,” according to the FBI.  “If they start looking at me and look at my bank records
and all that other stuff it could be, it could get ugly,”
Kluger said on the call, according to the complaint.  The SEC complaint refers to a “middleman” who passed
Kluger’s tips to Bauer. In mid-March, as Bauer and Kluger feared
that authorities would detect their scheme, they began
destroying phones, computers and records, the SEC complaint
said.  “Bauer even suggested that the middleman should take the
$175,000 in cash proceeds from a recent transaction and ‘burn it
in a fire,’” according to the SEC. “Kluger also told the
middleman, ‘as long as Mr. G (Garrett Bauer) keeps his mouth
shut and I keep mine and you keep yours, I don’t think they’re
gonna find enough of anything.’”  Bauer, Middleman  Bauer worked from October 1991 to January 1994 at a broker-
dealer where the middleman also worked for a portion of the
time, according to the SEC. Kluger and the middleman knew each
other since at least 1987, and they worked together from 1987 to
1991, a year before Kluger enrolled at  New York  University
School of Law, according to the SEC. The agency said its probe
is continuing.  As a result of the scheme, Kluger profited by at least $500,000
and the middleman made at least $875,500, according to the SEC
complaint.  Courtney Chiang Dorman, a senior vice president at Wilson
Sonsini, didn’t immediately return a phone call or e-mail
seeking comment. Cravath spokeswoman Robin Shanzer also didn’t
immediately return a phone call and e-mail seeking comment.  “We have strict policies that protect our clients’
confidential information, which we monitor closely,” Skadden
spokesman Brendan Intindola said in a statement. “It would be
deeply disappointing if these policies were not followed in this
instance. We are cooperating fully with the government in this
matter.”  The criminal case is U.S. v. Garrett Bauer, 11-mj-3536,
U.S. District Court, District of  New Jersey  (Newark). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Matthew H. Kluger
and Garrett D. Bauer, U.S. District Court, District of New
Jersey (Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  