-- 
Women’s Ski Jumping, Team Figure Skating Among Events Added to Sochi 2014

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-04-06T14:41:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/women-s-ski-jumping-team-figure-skating-added-to-2014-sochi-olympic-games.html
Women’s ski jumping and team figure
skating are among six events added for the Sochi 2014  Winter
Games , the  International Olympic Committee  said today.  “There is much more quality in the sport of women’s ski
jumping compared with two years ago,” Christophe Dubi, the
IOC’s sports director, said at a press conference at the Sport
Accord convention of sports organizations in London.  The IOC executive board also added ski half pipe for men
and women, biathlon mixed team relay and luge team relay events
to the Sochi Winter Games.  Women’s ski jumping will be making its Olympic debut in
Russia in three years’ time following a long campaign to have
the sport included. In 2009, a group of female ski jumpers
failed to persuade the  Supreme Court  of Canada, the country’s
highest court, to consider their bid to overturn an Olympic
policy barring them from participating in last year’s winter
games in Vancouver.  Women ski jumpers from Canada, Norway, Germany, Slovenia
and the U.S. sued the organizers of the Vancouver Olympics in
May 2008, claiming their exclusion from the games was
discriminatory and violated the Canadian constitution.  “We are elated,” Deedee Corradini, women’s ski jumping
USA president, said in a press release today. “Sochi, Russia,
can proudly proclaim that it will be hosting the first gender-
equal Winter Games in Olympic history.”  The IOC will decide on the inclusion of five other events -
- ski slopestyle for men and women, snowboard slopestyle for men
and women and Alpine team parallel competition -- in the next
few weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in  London  at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 