-- 
Yellowstone Club Founder Blixseth Faces Forced Bankruptcy

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   A n t h o n y   E f f i n g e r
-- 
2011-04-06T20:22:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/yellowstone-club-founder-tim-blixseth-facing-forced-bankruptcy-over-taxes.html
Yellowstone Club co-founder Tim Blixseth may be forced into bankruptcy by three states that
claim he owes $2.3 million in back taxes.  Tax officials from California,  Montana  and Idaho yesterday
filed an involuntary-bankruptcy petition against Blixseth in  Las
Vegas .  “It’s bogus,” Blixseth said in an interview, referring to
Montana’s claim for $219,000. “I’ve never ever seen the claim
until yesterday.”  Blixseth and his former wife, Edra Blixseth, founded the
Yellowstone Club, near Big Sky, Montana, in 2000 as a ski resort
for millionaires looking for vacation homes. Members paid
$205 million for 72 properties in 2005 alone.  The couple took cash for their personal use from a
$375 million loan arranged by Credit Suisse in that year,
according to a court ruling by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Ralph B. Kirscher. Finances at the club deteriorated thereafter, and the
club eventually went bankrupt, Kirscher found.  Tim Blixseth said he does owe $1.3 million to Idaho and
 California , which he will pay. He is waiting for tax information
from his ex-wife, who took possession of the Yellowstone Club
after their divorce, he said. The couple owned it together until
2008, and Tim Blixseth is entitled to write off some of the
losses on his taxes for that year, he said.  Dispute With Montana  Blixseth claimed the allegations in Montana are a personal
attack on him by Governor Brian D. Schweitzer. The governor is
trying to help an investor in the Yellowstone Club who is
opposing Blixseth in  bankruptcy court  in Montana, Blixseth
claimed.  “That’s preposterous,” state Director of Revenue Dan Bucks said today in an interview.  Blixseth actually owes Montana about $56 million in back
taxes, Bucks said. Blixseth transferred assets from all three
states to an entity in  Nevada  to avoid paying taxes, Bucks said.  Blixseth said in an e-mail that the $56 million tax lien
“is in litigation and under protest.”  The club was sold in 2009 to CrossHarbor Capital Partners
LLC, a Boston-based private-equity firm.  Tim Blixseth, who turns 61 later this month, became a
target of a trust set up for Yellowstone’s creditors under the
club’s reorganization plan.  He was ordered to pay $40 million to the club’s creditors
under a September ruling by Kirscher. Blixseth said he’s
appealing that judgment.  The case is in re Blixseth, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District
of Nevada (Las Vegas). The Yellowstone case is In re Yellowstone
Mountain Club LLC, 08-61570,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of
Montana (Butte).  -- Editors: Mary Romano, John Pickering  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Effinger in  Portland ,  Oregon ,
at   aeffinger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  