-- 
Euro Rallies Before ECB Meeting; Dollar Declines to Record Against Aussie

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-04-06T21:10:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-06/yen-declines-on-speculation-boj-to-trail-central-banks-in-ending-stimulus.html
The euro advanced to its highest
level against the dollar in more than 14 months on speculation
the  European Central Bank  will increase borrowing costs further
after raising its target lending rate tomorrow.  The 17-nation currency remained higher after Portugal’s
Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  said in a televised address that he
has asked the European Union for financial assistance. The
greenback dropped to a record against the Australian dollar and
the lowest level versus the Canadian currency in more than three
years on the view the  Federal Reserve  will trail other central
banks in boosting  interest rates .  “There’s just a single-minded focus in the currency market
among euro traders, which is the ECB raising interest rates
tomorrow,” said  Kathy Lien , director of currency research with
the online currency trader GFT Forex in  New York . “A bailout of
Portugal will not threaten the stability of the overall union
and will not draw away from the fact that the ECB will still
raise interest rates.”  The euro gained 0.8 percent to $1.4331 at 5 p.m. in New
York, from $1.4223 yesterday, after touching $1.4349, the
highest level since January 2010. The yen depreciated 0.7
percent to 85.49 versus the dollar, from 84.87, breaching 85 for
the first time since September. The euro climbed 1.5 percent to
122.52 yen, from 120.70.  The Aussie climbed as much as 1.2 percent to $1.0451, the
highest since the currency began trading freely in 1983. The
Canadian dollar rose as much as 0.7 percent to 95.69 cents
against the U.S. currency, the strongest since November 2007.  Yen Tumbles  The yen tumbled against all of its most-traded counterparts
tracked by Bloomberg on bets the  Bank of Japan  will expand
economic stimulus as the nation recovers from its worst
earthquake on record. The  New Zealand dollar  was the biggest
gainer among major currencies, rising for a 10th day versus the
yen in the longest stretch of gains since 2005.  Japan’s target lending rate of zero to 0.1 percent
encourages investors to use the yen to fund carry trades, in
which investors buy higher-yielding assets with amounts borrowed
where interest rates are low. New Zealand’s official cash rate
is 2.50 percent.  The New Zealand dollar gained 2.2 percent to 66.65 yen
after touching 66.72 yen, the highest level since May 2010. The
kiwi rose 1.4 percent to 77.95 U.S. cents.  Euro Versus Dollar  The euro has gained 7.1 percent against the dollar this
year in the best performance among the most-traded currencies.
It has strengthened as economic growth in  Germany  and
accelerating inflation boosted expectations that policy makers
will raise interest rates even as nations including  Portugal  and
Ireland struggle with debt.  Portugal’s Socrates informed the European Commission of the
nation’s intention to ask for the activation of the financial
support mechanisms, the EU said in a statement. He resigned last
month after parliament rejected his deficit-cutting plan and is
presiding over a caretaker government with limited power until
June 5 elections.  “This was a complete consensus that this bailout was going
to happen, whether it was this week, next week or next month,”
said  Jens Nordvig , a managing director of currency research at
Nomura Holdings Inc. in New York. “The only thing that matters
now is what kind of specific arrangement will be negotiated and
what kind of message is politically acceptable for Portugal.”  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  signaled on March 3 that
policy makers may raise the main refinancing rate at their next
meeting to curb accelerating inflation, which reached a two-year
high of 2.6 percent last month.  Pimco’s View  An increase in ECB rates and a resulting stronger euro are
the “last thing that  Greece , Ireland or Portugal needs,”
according to Pacific Investment Management Co., manager of the
world’s biggest bond fund.  “The ECB does need to make policy for the  euro zone  as a
whole, but perhaps it should consider combining a rate-hiking
cycle for the core with greater realism in terms of the approach
for the weakest peripheral countries,”  Andrew Balls , head of
European portfolio management at Pimco in  London , said today in
a statement on the company’s  website .  The ECB will raise its target rate by a quarter-percentage
point from a record low 1 percent tomorrow, according to all 57
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  The yen slumped on speculation  Japan  will trail other
developed nations in ending stimulus measures as it rebuilds
after its biggest earthquake on record.  ‘Off the Table’  “Even though the U.S. is slow, we can see when policy is
going to be tightening,” said Jon Wetreich, a currency
strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York.
“Japan? That’s kind of off the table. That’s driving the yen
weaker against all the currencies.”  Japan’s central bank will keep its target rate on hold at
its two-day meeting ending tomorrow, according to all 14
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  The Fed will raise its zero to 0.25 percent target rate for
overnight lending between banks in the first quarter of 2012,
according to the median forecast of 60 economists in a separate
Bloomberg News survey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  