-- ‘Candy Crush Saga’ Developer Said to Hire Banks for IPO
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2013-06-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/-candy-crush-saga-developer-said-to-hire-banks-for-ipo.html
King.com , maker of the “Candy Crush
Saga” games, has hired JPMorgan Chase & Co., Credit Suisse
Group AG and Bank of America Corp. to prepare for an initial
public offering, two people familiar with the matter said.  The software developer, whose official name is
Midasplayer.com Ltd., hasn’t decided on the size or timing of a
share sale, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the plans are private. The Wall Street Journal reported
on June 18 that the banks had been hired.  “Candy Crush Saga” has become the  most popular  game
played on  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s social network, with more than 45
million users, according to AppData, which tracks application
usage statistics. King.com’s success contrasts with  Zynga.com
Inc. (ZNGA) , whose shares have declined 71 percent since listing in
December 2011. The San Francisco-based games developer is
cutting staff and closing offices amid a shift toward making
titles for mobile devices.  King, founded in 2003, has offices in London, Hamburg,
Stockholm and San Francisco, according to its website. The
mobile version of “Candy Crush Saga” is currently the second-most popular free game on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s App Store.  Alex Dale, chief marketing officer for King, didn’t respond
to requests for comment yesterday. Representatives from all
three banks declined to comment.  Earlier this month, Zynga said it will cut 520 jobs, or 18
percent of its staff, and close some offices amid disappointing
results from its titles outside the “FarmVille” series.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  