-- H&M Reports ‘Good Start’ to June After Quarterly Profit Drop
-- B y   K a t a r i n a   G u s t a f s s o n
-- 2013-06-19T11:35:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/h-m-second-quarter-profit-misses-estimates-on-strength-of-krona.html
Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB) ,  Europe ’s
second-largest clothing retailer, said June sales are off to a
good start, providing some respite for investors after quarterly
profit fell more than analysts expected.  Revenue for the period June 1 to June 17 rose 14 percent in
local-currency terms compared with a year earlier, the
Stockholm-based company said today. If maintained for the rest
of the month, that would be the strongest growth since
September. H&M rose as much as 2.3 percent in Stockholm trading.  The improved sales performance provided a tonic for the
retailer, whose profit has been hurt by the strength of the
Swedish krona, weakening European economies, and unseasonably
cool spring weather. Second-quarter net income fell 11 percent,
H&M said, about a week after Spanish competitor  Inditex SA (ITX) 
reported the slowest first-quarter income growth in four years.  “The good news is current trading, so that will likely be
seen as encouraging,” said  Anne Critchlow , an analyst at
 Societe Generale  in  London . “There is likely to be some pent-up
demand for summer clothing coming through now.”  H&M shares rose 1 percent to 227.1 kronor at 12:37 a.m. in
Stockholm. Before today, they  were little changed  this year,
compared with an increase of 8 percent for the  OMX Stockholm 30
Index. (OMX)   Net income dropped to 4.66 billion kronor ($722 million) in
the three months ended May 31, compared with the 4.87 billion-kronor average estimate of 18 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  ’Substantial’ Impact  The krona’s gain against currencies such as the euro had a
“substantial” impact on profit, H&M said, without quantifying
it. Sales of 36.9 billion kronor in the quarter would have been
1.8 billion kronor higher using the same exchange rates as a
year ago, the retailer said. The Swedish currency was on average
about 5 percent stronger against the euro in the quarter.  “Sales were not satisfactory,” Chief Executive Officer
Karl-Johan Persson said in a statement. Revenue fell 7.3 percent
to 31.64 billion kronor, excluding value-added tax.  H&M’s gross margin narrowed to 61.1 percent of sales from
61.7 percent a year earlier as high inventory levels and the
cold weather led to larger markdowns than planned.  “We are taking market share in a very tough, competitive
market,” Persson said in an interview at H&M’s  Stockholm 
headquarters. “Competition is getting tougher and tougher all
the time, the best competitors are getting better and
competitors are expanding and coming to new markets where they
haven’t been before.”  Concept Expansion  The new chain & Other Stories is beating H&M’s expectations
and the retailer will step up expansion of the concept, opening
more than 10 new such stores next year, according to Persson.  H&M, purveyor of $12.95 leopard-print ballet flats and
$5.95 tank tops, stood by proposals to add a net 350 stores this
year and reiterated its intention to start selling garments
online in the U.S. in August after previous delays.  “There is a huge potential for online sales there,”
Soeren Loentoft Hansen, an analyst at  Sydbank A/S (SYDB) , said by phone
June 14. “By far the world’s biggest online market is in the
U.S., and it is of course very important that H&M is able to
have a share of this big and fast-growing market.”  Global Rollout  H&M is continuing work on a global rollout of its online
business and is aiming to add several new countries during 2014
and 2015, Persson said at a news conference today. The retailer
is increasing spending on  Internet sales  and new shop formats
after falling behind Zara owner Inditex. H&M, which had 2,908
stores at the end of May, was overtaken by Inditex as Europe’s
biggest clothing maker in 2006.  H&M has produced unchanged like-for-like sales on average
over the past five years and has also underperformed Inditex on
comparable sales over the past 10 years, according to Critchlow.  “The explanation lies in the differences between these two
companies in terms of product and business model,” she said,
adding that the underperformance will probably persist.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarina Gustafsson in Stockholm at 
 kgustafsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Jarvis  at   pjarvis@bloomberg.net  