-- Agnico Weighs Deals as Gold Miners Sell Assets
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-06-19T13:50:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/agnico-weighs-deals-as-gold-miners-sell-assets-corporate-canada.html
Agnico Eagle Mines Ltd. (AEM) , one of
 Canada ’s oldest gold producers, will consider entering joint
ventures for the first time and buying mines already in
operation.  Agnico may also expand into new countries as it loosens the
acquisition criteria it’s stuck to for decades, Chief Executive
Officer Sean Boyd said in an interview at Bloomberg’s Toronto
office. What Boyd won’t change is his vow not to “bet the
company” on any single deal, he said.  “We’re not changing the general strategy, we’re changing
the tactics,” the CEO said. “We’re broadening our horizon.”  Agnico, based in Toronto, has the highest price-to-book
ratio of seven Canadian gold producers bigger than $2 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company trades at
1.47 times book value, compared with an average of 0.95 times
for the group, indicating the market values the company’s net
assets, including its LaRonde mine in  Quebec , higher than any
other miner in Canada. Agnico has a market capitalization of
C$5.29 billion ($5.19 billion) and had 2012  sales  of $1.92
billion.  The company continues to seek growth even after gold fell
18 percent this year and as companies including  Barrick Gold
Corp. (ABX) , the biggest producer, cut spending plans and pursue asset
sales. Agnico Eagle, which also operates in Finland and  Mexico ,
isn’t facing some of the same difficulties as other producers
because it didn’t get caught up in a “race to be the biggest,”
Boyd said.  Smart Deals  “In the race to grow, the industry has created businesses
that are unmanageable, whether they are too big or too complex
or the assets in them are just not that good,” he said. “The
companies that have successfully navigated the last two or three
years realize the importance of doing smart, measured deals.”  Agnico got its start when five silver mining companies
merged in 1953 to become Cobalt Consolidated Mining Co.,
according to the company’s website. Cobalt, which changed its
name to Agnico Mines Ltd., merged with Eagle Mines Ltd. in 1972
and the new company started trading on the Toronto Stock
Exchange the same year.  Agnico Eagle rose 1.1 percent to C$30.47 at 9:46 a.m. in
Toronto as gold futures climbed 0.5 percent to $1,373.60 an
ounce on the Comex in  New York . Agnico has  declined  42 percent
this year, compared with an average of 36 percent among the
seven biggest Canadian producers.  Bull Market  Gold fell to a three-week low and settled at $1,366.90
yesterday, on speculation that the  Federal Reserve  may signal a
reduction of U.S. economic stimulus, which may reduce inflation
pressures.  While there may be some more short-term weakness, the
longer-term gold  bull market  hasn’t ended and the fundamentals
that pushed prices higher for 12 straight years are still in
place, Boyd said.  “It’s going to exceed its all-time high at some point,
which is over $1,900,” Boyd said. “I still think it can get to
$1,800 in the next 12 months.” Gold reached a record $1,923.70
an ounce in New York in September 2011.  Agnico had $232 million of cash and an undrawn $1.2 billion
line of credit as of March 31. The company had net debt of
$516.6 million on March 31 and the ratio of its net debt to
trailing 12-month earnings before taxes, depreciation and
amortization was 0.7, compared with an average of 0.67 among the
biggest Canadian producers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Comfort Zone  Agnico’s strategy of pursuing measured growth makes sense,
said  David Christensen , CEO of ASA Gold and Precious Metals Ltd.
in  San Mateo ,  California , which manages about $300 million and
invests in precious-metals companies including Agnico.  “They’ve never gone out and done a transaction which could
cost them the company,” he said in a phone interview yesterday.
“Knowing this company they will stay within their comfort zone
and I wouldn’t expect them to do anything outlandish.”  While Agnico has consistently grown through acquisitions,
the company limited the size of deals to within 15 percent of
its market value, Boyd said. At yesterday’s close that would be
about C$782 million. It may be prepared to go beyond that
threshold for the right deal, as long as it doesn’t increase
financial risk for the company, he said.  “It has to be measured, we’re not talking about massive
deals relative to our market cap,” he said.  Minority Positions  Agnico spent $1.67 billion on 14 acquisitions in the past
10 years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company’s
biggest transaction was its $577.6 million purchase of Complex
Minerals Corp. in 2010 to add a project in Nunavut.  The company plans to produce about 970,000 to 1 million
ounces of gold this year, increasing to about 1.2 million ounces
in 2015. The firm’s Goldex mine in Quebec and La India in Mexico
will both start operations this year ahead of schedule, Agnico
said in April.  Agnico has been active already this year, acquiring
minority positions in smaller companies including  Kootenay
Silver Inc. (KTN) ,  Sulliden Gold Corp. (SUE)  and  Probe Mines Ltd. (PRB)   The company’s current operations are divided between its
northern business, which has longer mine lives and greater
operational complexity, and a southern business in Mexico, which
offers higher returns, better growth prospects and shorter
payback times on investments, and which it’s hoping to grow,
Boyd said.  Meliadine Approval?  Agnico has yet to decide whether it will approve
construction of its Meliadine project in Nunavut, which Boyd
said in April would have a $1 billion-plus capital cost. The
company will complete a final feasibility study on the mine next
year.  It’s “not the end of the world” if Meliadine doesn’t
start production in 2018, which is when the company’s current
Nunavut mine, Meadowbank, may end operations, he said.  While Agnico has focused on buying development projects in
the past and always owned 100 percent of its assets, the company
is being more “open-minded” as it assesses potential deals,
Boyd said.  Agnico is building the La India project in Mexico after
acquiring the asset through the C$262.9 million acquisition of
Grayd Resource Corp.  The company will probably seek similar deals in the future,
 David West , a Vancouver-based analyst at Salman Partners Inc.,
said in a phone interview yesterday.  Capital expenditures, or capex, for La India were estimated
at $158 million, Agnico said when it approved the project in
September last year.  “It’s not extremely high capex to develop the project and
it’s also got some exploration upside,” West said. “There’s
not a lot of risk when you buy something like that and a company
like Agnico can actually add value down the road through the
drill bit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  