-- Air Arabia Jumps as Recovery Boosts Profit Outlook: Dubai Mover
-- B y   S h e r i n e   E l   M a d a n y
-- 2013-06-19T11:42:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/air-arabia-jumps-as-recovery-boosts-profit-outlook-dubai-mover.html
Air Arabia PJSC (AIRARABI)  surged to the
highest level in more than two weeks on bets Dubai’s tourism
recovery will boost profit at the  Middle East ’s biggest no-frills airline.  Shares of the carrier advanced 2.7 percent to 1.16 dirhams,
the highest level since June 2, at the close in the emirate.
About 46 million shares were traded, more than double the three-month daily average. The stock was the  second-biggest  gainer on
the benchmark  DFM General Index (DFMGI) , which rose 0.6 percent.  “The company is benefiting from the tourism recovery in
Dubai,” said Tariq Qaqish, head of asset management at Dubai-based Al Mal Capital PSC. There are “expectations that second-quarter earnings will beat estimates” after first-quarter
profit rose, he said.  Dubai plans to double the number of visitors to 20 million
by 2020 and triple annual revenue from the industry amid an
economic recovery, the government said last month. Air Arabia’s
first-quarter passenger traffic rose to a record 1.45 million,
the airline said in April. The company said June 10 it plans to
start flights to the capital of  Armenia  in August, the fifth new
route in 2013 and its 86th globally, from its hubs in Sharjah,
 United Arab Emirates  as well as  Egypt  and Morocco.  The low-cost carrier may post an eight percent increase in
full-year profit to 453 million dirhams ($123 million),
according to the mean estimate of six analysts compiled by
Bloomberg. First-quarter net income rose 20 percent to 59
million dirhams.  Six analysts recommend investors buy the shares, while five
have a hold rating and one says sell, according to  data  compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherine El Madany in Dubai at 
 selmadany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
Daliah Merzaban at 
 dmerzaban@bloomberg.net  