-- Airbus Weighs Purchase of Spirit Plant in France to Protect A350
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-06-19T17:12:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/airbus-weighs-purchase-of-spirit-plant-in-france-to-protect-a350.html
Airbus SAS is exploring the purchase
of a factory owned by U.S. supplier  Spirit Aerosystems Holdings
Inc. (SPR)  to limit production risks on its A350 wide-body, the head
of the aircraft program said.  Spirit, which is providing fuselage panels for the new
plane, manufactures the pieces in the U.S. before transferring
them for assembly to a site in Saint Nazaire, northern  France ,
where it employs 200 people. Airbus has assisted with improving
the quality of work in Saint Nazaire, which program head Didier Evrard called “sub-standard.”  Airbus is seeking to minimize the risks on its A350 program
by monitoring suppliers in order to step in early when issues
arise. In 2011, Airbus purchased Germany’s PFW Aerospace GmbH, a
maker of metal components, after that company lost access to
credit.  “We’ll look and see if the most efficient thing for Spirit
and Airbus would be for us to manage the plant,” Evrard said at
the  Paris Air Show . “If we manage it, we buy it.”  Airbus increased efforts to help Spirit more than a year
ago, dispatching personnel to a site in Kinston, North Carolina,
and to Saint Nazaire. The company will decide on the future
ownership of the French facility in coming months, said Evrard,
without providing details on the possible cost.  Spirit would keep the contracts it has with Airbus in case
of a takeover of the Saint Nazaire facility, Evrard said.
Besides the work on the A350, Spirit makes sections for every
 Boeing Co. (BA)  model as well as the CSeries by  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)   “Spirit is working closely with our customer and making
progress in delivering on our commitments,” spokesman  Ken Evans 
said by e-mail. “Any discussions with Airbus fit into this
context.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  