-- Alcatel to Sell Assets in Bid to End ‘Perpetual’ Restructurings
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-06-19T13:14:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/alcatel-lucent-to-cut-1-3-billion-in-assets-in-broadband-focus.html
Alcatel-Lucent SA (ALU)  will sell 1
billion euros ($1.3 billion) of assets and slash costs by
another 1 billion euros in a bid by Chief  Michel Combes  to turn
the company around -- something his predecessors tried, and
failed, to do for seven years.  The shares jumped as much as 7.4 percent after Combes said
that by the time the plan is fully executed in 2015, the
network-equipment vendor will have positive free  cash flow  and
be more tightly focused on its most remunerative areas, like
ultra-high speed Internet, after cutting out legacy operations.  “I could blame the world for our difficulties, but the
truth is we’ve missed product launches and been in too many
geographies and businesses,” Combes, who took over April 1
after Chief Executive Officer Ben Verwaayen’s asset sales and
firings proved insufficient to stem losses, said today.  Once restructured, Paris-based Alcatel-Lucent, whose cash
pile has dwindled for seven consecutive years, will look to cut
its debt by 2 billion euros by selling shares on the stock
market or through further asset sales, Combes said in a speech
to analysts and reporters.  Alcatel-Lucent shares were up 5 percent at 1.48 euros at
3:11 p.m. in Paris, more than double what they were worth when
they hit a 23-year low in October.  Shift Plan  Under the so-called Shift Plan, Alcatel-Lucent will aim to
narrow down business to only the highest-growing segments and
refocus research money on so-called IP networking and ultra-broadband access -- network gear made for delivering very-high-speed Internet.  Focusing on fewer businesses makes sense, Jefferies Group
LLC analysts George C. Notter and James Kisner wrote in an note.
Still, Combes needs to show he can deliver, and thus stand out
from a history of failed turnaround bids at Alcatel-Lucent, they
said.  “We’re reminded that Alcatel-Lucent has been a perpetual
restructurer,” Notter and Kisner said. “It’s hard to really
see why this latest restructuring will get executed according to
plan and yield the benefits that have been outlined here.”  Alcatel-Lucent said it’s hiring Philippe Guillemot, who
previously worked at Cie Financiere Michelin SCA and  Valeo SA (FR) ,
as head of operations to help with reorganization. Finance Chief
Paul Tufano will step down.  Third CEO  The quest to make the company profitable began right from
its formation through the 2006 merger of Alcatel SA and Lucent
Technologies.  Combes, 51, is the third CEO to try his hand at revamping
Alcatel-Lucent. In more than 20 years in the telecommunications
industry, he’s reduced expenses at  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and
overseen finances at  France Telecom SA. (FTE)  Combes is building on
Verwaayen’s last move -- closing a 2 billion-euro loan deal in
January to give the company financial headroom in exchange for
pledging its intellectual property portfolio as collateral.  Alcatel-Lucent has no short-term liquidity issues, Combes
said. He declined to specify which assets will be sold, while
saying they’ve been identified.  “We view the new strategic plan as slightly positive for
Alcatel credit spreads,” Societe Generale SA analysts Robert H. Jaeger and Priya Viswanathan wrote. “The potential for a more
streamlined and better positioned business is offset by near-term execution risks and higher cash restructuring charges.”  Default swaps on Alcatel-Lucent’s bonds -- an indicator of
the cost to protect the debt in case a borrower fails to meet
its obligations -- declined as much as 3.9 percent to 627 basis
points today. That compares with a 12-month record of 1,840
basis points on July 26.  Asian Competitors  In his first address to investors last month, Combes said
Alcatel-Lucent could emulate Ericsson AB, which a decade ago
focused on mobile equipment and reorganized its workforce to
expand the Swedish company into the world’s largest vendor of
wireless networks. Keeping cash consumption under control and
focusing on fewer businesses will be key, he had said.  Still, Combes faces competition from  China ’s Huawei
Technologies Co. and  ZTE Corp. (000063) , which have taken market share
from European competitors, falling short only in the U.S.
because security concerns prevent them from winning major
network contracts.  Alcatel-Lucent, Nokia Siemens Networks and Ericsson
eliminated jobs to adapt their business models to aggressive
price cuts by Asian vendors, while Huawei said in April it will
hire 5,500 people in  Europe  during the next four to five years.  Alcatel-Lucent will discuss the cost-cutting measures
unveiled today with unions, Combes said in an interview on BFM
radio. In  France , where President  Francois Hollande ’s Socialist
government has taken a tough stance on firings, Alcatel-Lucent
has about 9,500 workers, of a total of 72,000 worldwide.  Alcatel, which has a market value of 3.3 billion euros,
exited the leading French index Cac 40 last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Heather Smith at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net  