-- Allston Trading Says High-Frequency Firm Is Open to Partnerships
-- B y   S a m   M a m u d i
-- 2013-06-19T01:04:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/allston-trading-says-high-frequency-firm-is-open-to-partnerships.html
Allston Trading LLC, the high-frequency market maker based in  Chicago , will consider
partnerships that help it boost sales, according to Raj Mahajan,
its chief executive officer.  The company doesn’t comment on discussions with other
firms, according to a statement from Mahajan. The Wall Street
Journal reported yesterday that Allston and RGM Advisors LLC are
in early merger talks, citing people familiar with the matter
who it didn’t name. RGM also declined to comment.  Firms such as Allston and RGM make money through rapid-fire
strategies that use computers to buy and sell stocks,
commodities and other assets on electronic exchanges. Profits
for the industry have been squeezed as share volume fell in the
U.S. Daily trading by high-frequency firms averaged 1.6 billion
shares a day last year compared with 3.25 billion in 2009, while
profits fell to $1 billion from $5 billion, according to data
from Rosenblatt Securities Inc.  “Allston continues to implement its strategy to double the
firm’s net trading revenue,” Mahajan said, according to an e-mailed statement. “From time to time, as interesting
partnership opportunities emerge or as we identify acquisition
opportunities, Allston management will of course consider them
if they accelerate our growth objectives but will not comment on
any of those discussions unless there is something concrete to
communicate.”  Austin, Texas-based RGM Advisors LLC was founded in 2001 by
Robbie Robinette, Richard Gorelick and Mark Melton. The firm has
more than 100 employees and an office in  London , according to
its website.  In a statement emailed by a representative, Gorelick, the
CEO, declined to comment on merger reports.  “As a matter of policy, RGM Advisors does not comment on
rumor or speculation about potential transactions,” he said.
“We are focused on continuing to grow our business in a variety
of ways.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Mamudi in  New York  at 
 smamudi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  