-- Lancashire Holdings Falls on JPMorgan Downgrade: London Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-06-19T12:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/lancashire-holdings-falls-on-jpmorgan-downgrade-london-mover.html
Lancashire Holdings Ltd. (LRE)  fell the
most in three months after JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut its rating
on the Lloyds of  London  insurer for the first time in at least
three years, citing softening premium rates.  The  shares  dropped as much as 5.9 percent, the biggest
intraday decline since March 20, and were down 2.6 percent at
762 pence at 12:40 p.m. in London. The volume of shares traded
was almost twice the three-month daily average.  “A softening rate outlook across Lancashire’s portfolio
will cap underwriting progress,” Andreas van Embden, an analyst
at JPMorgan, said in a note. “We see a lack of immediate
catalysts for the shares ahead of the hurricane season.”  Property catastrophe reinsurance rates for June have fallen
about 15 percent, reflecting the lack of hurricanes in  Florida 
and increased competition, Nick Johnson, a London-based analyst
at Numis Securities Ltd., wrote in a note dated June 10.  Catastrophe insurance premiums have eased in the U.S. as no
hurricane has made landfall in Florida, the fourth-most populous
state, since 2005. This year, there is a 16 percent chance a
Category 3 hurricane, with winds of at least 111 miles per hour
(179 kph), will hit Florida, Colorado State University
researchers forecast in April. That’s down from 21 percent in an
average year. The six-month  hurricane season  began on June 1.  UBS List  Van Embden cut his  rating  on the stock to neutral from
overweight and lowered his 12-month price target by 7 percent to
800 pence. Van Embden has had an overweight rating on Lancashire
since he started covering the insurer for JPMorgan in 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Lancashire remains an attractive income stock with a
special  dividend  of 65 pence a share, offering a yield of 9
percent, likely to be announced in the second half, van Embden
said. The stock is fully valued compared with its returns, the
analyst said.  JPMorgan’s downgrade comes five days after UBS AG initiated
coverage with a buy recommendation and added Lancashire to its
key calls list of small and medium-capitalization companies.  Lancashire had achieved the  highest returns  in the
industry, coupled with the lowest volatility, between 2008 and
2012, UBS analyst Angela Gu, who set a 12-month price target of
850 pence, said in a note to clients. Its prospective total
dividend yield of 10 percent for the next three years was the
highest in the industry, she said.  Numis’s Johnson and EVA Dimensions also both upgraded the
stock this month. The drop in the share price had left
Lancashire’s valuation in line with its competitors, Johnson
wrote, upgrading his rating to add from hold. The shares fell 21
percent between March 4 and June 6.  Lancashire’s “nimble strategy and relatively small capital
base will enable it to sustain superior operating performance
versus peers,” Johnson wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh  at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  