-- Moyes Will Have First Manchester United League Game at Swansea
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f   a n d   C h r i s   E l s e r
-- 2013-06-19T10:04:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/manchester-united-s-moyes-to-start-post-with-game-at-swansea.html
David Moyes  will have his first
Premier League game as Manchester United coach away at Swansea,
according to the schedule released today.  Moyes, who left Everton to take over the defending champion
from  Alex Ferguson , will travel to Wales for the opening game in
English soccer’s top division on Aug. 17.  Chelsea, which re-hired  Jose Mourinho  as coach to replace
interim manager Rafael Benitez, will host newly promoted Hull
City, while Arsenal plays Aston Villa in London. Manchester
City, who picked Chile’s Manuel Pellegrini to replace  Roberto
Mancini , will face Newcastle United at home.  “Everyone will be looking at the new coaches,” former
Chelsea striker Jimmy Floyd Hasselbaink said in an interview in
 London . “They need to put their stamp on the team.”  Crystal Palace, also promoted from the second-tier
Championships, will host Tottenham Hotspur in a London derby,
while other newcomer Cardiff is at West Ham.  It’s “especially important” for the promoted teams to get
a win early in the season, said Hasselbaink, a so-called
ambassador for Premier League sponsor Barclays Plc.  “To get three points on board gives a good atmosphere,”
Hasselbaink said. “The longer it takes to get a win, the more
you starting doubting the club.”  Over the last decade, only 17 of 30 promoted teams have
managed to stay in the Premier League after their first season.  In other opening weekend games, Liverpool hosts Stoke,
Everton is at Norwich, Fulham goes to Sunderland and West
Bromwich Albion is at home to Southampton.  The second league game for Moyes at United is at home to
Mourinho’s Chelsea on Aug. 24. His first Manchester derby will
at Manchester City on Sept. 21.  On the final day, May 11, Manchester United travels to
Southampton, Manchester City hosts West Ham, Arsenal is at
Norwich and Chelsea travels to Cardiff.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net ;
 Christopher Elser  at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  