-- Apple TV Carrying HBO and ESPN Streaming Content
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2013-06-20T00:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/apple-tv-carrying-hbo-and-espn-streaming-content-correct-.html
  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  is adding sports, movies
and shows from  Time Warner (TWC)  Inc.’s  HBO  and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN
network to Apple TV, one of its biggest expansions of
programming since the product debuted in 2007.  Shows including “SportsCenter,” “Monday Night
Football,” “Game of Thrones” and “Boardwalk Empire” are
among those available starting today through Apple TV for cable-TV customers who already subscribe to ESPN and HBO, Cupertino,
California-based Apple said today in a statement.  Adding HBO and ESPN to the lineup of Apple TV services that
already included  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  and Hulu Plus may help the iPhone
maker bolster sales of a set-top box that has faced stiff
competition from Roku Inc.’s device and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Xbox.
Time Warner and Disney, who have been making more material
available on smartphones and tablets, gain another outlet to
deliver shows to viewers, who have turned toward on-demand
viewing and are watching less scheduled programming.  “It’s an indication of where the industry is headed,”
said Jaison Blair, an analyst at Telsey Advisory Group in New
York. “The consumer is increasingly going to demand that their
content is available on all their devices.”  Even so, Apple is working within the confines of the U.S.
cable industry by limiting access to the ESPN and HBO apps.
Media companies that own the channels have resisted letting
streaming services sell programming directly to consumers out of
concern that such a move might not generate enough revenue to
make up for the potential loss in cable subscriptions.  ‘Well Protected’  “The cable bundle is relatively well protected,” Blair
said in an interview.  Defending the status quo carries risks for media companies
and cable providers as subscribers become increasingly
frustrated by rising monthly bills, he said. Content producers
keep increasing license fees, with costs passed to subscribers.  “The programmers are killing the golden goose,” Blair
said.  With Apple’s new offering, viewers will be able to watch
programming from ESPN’s different networks live after
authenticating their cable subscription. A limited amount of
sports content will be available for free, similar to what’s
available on ESPN’s website. For HBO, the product will work like
the network’s HBO Go iPad application, with subscribers getting
access to its catalog of shows and movies on demand.  The HBO Go app won’t be available through Apple TV for
subscribers of Charter Communications Inc. and DirecTV, while
the ESPN service won’t work for users of Dish Network Corp. or
DirecTV.  Offering Incentives  Besides HBO and ESPN, Apple also is adding content from
 News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Sky News channel, as well as Crunchyroll, a
distributor of content from East Asia, and Qello, which offers
an archive of concerts and music documentaries. Customers will
be able to buy Crunchyroll and Qello content on iTunes.  In addition to selling downloads of shows and movies
through iTunes, Apple has in the past held talks about new ways
of selling access to programming directly to customers, an idea
that has been spurned by media companies, people familiar with
the matter have said.  Intel Corp. (INTC)  is also negotiating with the
owners of shows and movies to create an online pay-TV service,
people familiar with the efforts said earlier this year.  To foil plans like those, Time Warner Cable Inc. and other
pay-TV operators are offering incentives to media companies that
agree to withhold content from Web-based entertainment services,
people with knowledge of the matter said this month.  Apple TV is a $99 set-top device that streams content
purchased on iTunes and via other online services to consumers’
televisions. Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  said last month
that Apple has sold more than 13 million units of the set-top
box since it was introduced in 2007, with half of that in 2013.  ITunes users have downloaded more than 1 billion television
episodes and 380 million movies since the service’s debut, Apple
said, and they’re purchasing more than 800,000 shows and 350,000
movies a day.  Apple shares fell 2 percent to $423 at the close in New
York. They have dropped 21 percent this year, compared with a 14
percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  