-- Marathon Patent, Novo Nordisk: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-06-19T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/marathon-patent-group-novo-nordisk-levi-intellectual-property.html
Marathon Patent Group Inc. (MARA) ’s Relay
IP unit  said  it filed 10 patent infringement cases in federal
court in Delaware June 14. All the cases alleged infringement of
patent 5,331,637.  The patent, which was issued in July 1994, covers
transmitting information organized into packets between nodes of
a communications network. According to the patent, the covered
technology “provides a novel, low-overhead method for
constructing and storing one multi-destination delivery route.”  Among the companies Marathon said Relay IP sued are Direct
Edge ECN LLC, Active Tick LLC, and Lek Securities Corp.  According to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office’s
database of what are known as  patent assignments , this patent
has changed hands several times. Initially, it was assigned to
Bell Communications Research Inc. of Livingston,  New Jersey .
Then it was transferred to Telecore Technologies Inc., of
Morristown, New Jersey.  In April 2011, the patent went to Mosaid Technologies Inc.
of Ottawa, Ontario. Relay Technologies acquired the patent from
Mosaid on June 5 of this year.  Two days earlier, the Alexandria, Virginia-based patent-licensing company said in a statement that it had secured $6
million in financing it would use to fund patent acquisitions
and operations.  Novo Nordisk Patent Claim on Prandin Invalid, U.S. Court Says  Novo Nordisk A/S (NOVOB) , the Danish pharmaceutical company with a
focus on diabetes treatment, lost a U.S. appeals court bid to
revive a patent claim on its drug Prandin.  The patent claim asserted against  Sun  Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. and  Paddock  Laboratories Inc. is invalid, the
 U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit said in separate
decisions posted on its website.  The Washington-based court, which hears appeals of patent
disputes, overturned a finding that the entire patent was
unenforceable. The court said information Novo Nordisk failed to
provide to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office didn’t affect
the outcome of the agency review of the application.  The disputed patent -- 6,677,358 -- was issued in January
2004, and covers an oral medicine for non-insulin dependent
diabetes.  The cases are Novo Nordisk A/S v. Caraco Pharmaceutical
Laboratories Ltd., 2011-1223 and Novo Nordisk, Inc. v. Paddock
Laboratories Inc., 2012-1031, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Fifth & Pacific’s  Kate Spade  Doesn’t Infringe Mark, Court Says  Fifth & Pacific Companies Inc. (FNP) , the  New York  company
formerly known as Liz Claiborne, and its Kate Spade unit
prevailed in a trademark dispute with a New York-based menswear
retailer.  A federal court in  Manhattan  said in a June 17 ruling that
there wasn’t a likelihood of confusion between Saturdays Surf
LLC’s and the Kate Spade’s Saturday trademarks.  The court said that the word shared by both marks --
Saturday -- is relatively weak, and there is “significant
difference” between the men’s and women’s products. Kate Spade
is known for its accessories and apparel for women.  Kate Spade filed the suit in December 2012, seeking a court
declaration it didn’t infringe.  The court said the aesthetics of the two companies’ brands
were different, with the Kate Spade Saturday featuring bright
colors and patterns to create a playful image, while Saturdays
Surf NYC used a more neutral palate and minimalist design, with
some surf-inspired items.  The case is Kate Spade LLC V. Saturdays Surf LLC, 1:12-cv-09360, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Accenture Sues Deloitte Over ‘High Performance’ Trademark  Accenture LLP (ACN)  sued rival consulting company Deloitte LLC
for infringing the trademarked “High performance. Delivered”
slogan Accenture uses in marketing.  Accenture has used the slogan in its advertising since 2003
and spends more than $50 million a year on marketing that uses
it, the Chicago-based company said in a complaint filed
yesterday in Manhattan federal court. It claims Deloitte
recently began an advertising campaign built around the phrase
“High performance. Amplified.”  “Defendant was not content to just use a confusingly
similar trademark,” Accenture said in its complaint.
“Defendant copied the overall structure as well as the look and
feel of Accenture’s well-known trademark.”  Jonathan Gandal, a spokesman for New York-based Deloitte,
didn’t respond to messages seeking comment on the suit.  A second plaintiff is Accenture Global Services Ltd., which
owns the trademark and licenses it to Accenture LLP.  The case is Accenture Global Services Ltd. v. Deloitte LLP,
13-4188, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Levi’s Challenge to Abercrombie Trademark to Get Second Look  Levi Strauss & Co., the 110-year-old San Francisco-based
maker of blue jeans, persuaded a federal appeals court to rule
that the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office should reconsider its
challenge to a trademark used by a competitor.  The disputed mark is a stitching design used on clothing by
 New Albany , Ohio-based  Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (ANF)  that the blue
jeans company claims infringes the famed Arcuate stitching
design it places on its rear pants pockets.  The Washington-based U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit ordered the patent office to take another look at the
Abercrombie & Fitch application for its stitch-design trademark.  The court said that the loss of a civil trial relating to
infringement wasn’t enough reason to bar a second look to see if
the mark would weaken the strength of Levi’s Arcuate mark.  In its June 18 opinion, the court said that policies that
would ordinarily bar a second look at the mark don’t justify
“inviting a two-strategy strategy by a rival hoping to dilute a
famous mark -- start with a use that is hardest to provide
dilutive, defeat the famous-mark owners challenge to that use,
and then introduce more obviously dilutive used of the very same
mark with an impunity given by claim preclusion.”  The case is Levi Strauss & Co. v. Abercrombie & Fitch
Trading Co., 2012-1495,1496, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  EA Spars With Early Madden Designer Seeking Millions at Trial  Electronic Arts Inc. (EA) , whose Madden NFL videogame sales have
exceeded $4 billion, sent its last royalty check to programmer
Robin Antonick in 1992 for computer code he wrote for the
earliest version of the game.  A lawyer for Antonick told a federal jury in  San Francisco 
that, unbeknown to his client, EA continued to use his code to
develop later versions of Madden NFL, and never paid him.  EA, the second-largest video game publisher, denies using
the code and says other company programmers developed later
Madden NFL games independent of Antonick’s work. The company
also alleges Antonick’s allegation didn’t realize his code had
been used until 2009 is untrue, and he waited too long to claim
he’s owed money.  This phase of the trial focuses on whether the statute of
limitations, or the deadline for filing the lawsuit, has passed,
and if not, whether Antonick is owed anything for Madden games
sold before 1996. He is seeking compensatory damages of about
$16 million and almost $200 million from EA’s pre-1996 game
profits, said Stuart Paynter, one of Antonick’s attorneys.  Damages for games sold after 1996 will be considered in the
second phase of the trial if the jury agrees with Antonick that
the statute of limitations hasn’t expired, Paynter said.
Antonick is seeking a 7 percent royalty rate for prior and
future game sales as well as disgorgement of EA’s profit, which
could reach into the hundreds of millions of dollars.  Antonick sued  Redwood City , California-based EA in 2011,
claiming he designed a prototype that ultimately became the
Madden game, which has sold more than 85 million copies of the
software for more than $4 billion in sales.  Both sides agree that Antonick had a contract with EA in
1986 to develop a Madden game for Apple II, Commodore 64 and IBM
personal computers. EA promised in 1991 to keep his source code
confidential and not use it for games developed to run on other
computers, Antonick’s lawyers said in court papers.  It wasn’t until 2009 that Antonick began to realize the
hugely popular Madden game was based on his code, Paynter said
by phone.  U.S. District Judge Charles Breyer, who will preside over
the trial, refused to throw out Antonick’s fraud allegation in
April.  The case is Antonick v. Electronic Arts Inc., 11-01543,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of  California  (San
Francisco).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 