-- Argentine Economy Grows More Than Expected in First Quarter
-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2013-06-19T20:33:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/argentine-economy-grows-more-than-expected-in-first-quarter.html
Argentina ’s economy grew more than
expected in the first three months of the year as spending,
consumption and financial services rebounded even as the
nation’s trade surplus narrowed on increased imports.  The economy, the second-largest in  South America , grew 3
percent in the first quarter from a year earlier, more than the
1.9 percent  median estimate  of three economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Argentina grew 1.9 percent in 2012.  President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  is increasing
public spending and handouts to poor families this year to stoke
consumption ahead of congressional elections. While growth beat
estimates, Fernandez is struggling to contain annual inflation
estimated at 24 percent and a narrowing trade surplus on the
back of higher energy imports.  Consumer spending  expanded 6.1 percent in the quarter and
investment rebounded 1.3 percent after three consecutive
negative quarters. Financial services expanded 22 percent and
retail sales grew 6.5 percent, according to the report published
today by the National Statistics Institute.  Consumer prices rose 23.7 percent in May from a year
earlier, according to opposition lawmakers who release private
estimates. The national statistics agency reported 10.3 percent
inflation for May.  The nation’s trade surplus shrank in the first quarter,
after exports fell 8.5 percent and imports increased 6.2
percent. Argentina’s  trade surplus  in March narrowed to $510
million from $1 billion a year earlier.  Soy Exports  Argentina, which is the world’s largest exporter of  soybean
oil  and the third-largest of raw soybeans, said agriculture was
flat in the quarter, after declining 10.3 percent a year
earlier.  Barclays Plc cut its growth forecast for Argentina to 2.4
percent this year from 2.9 percent, citing an eroding balance of
payments. That’s below the 3 percent forecast of 23 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  “We think the economy is experiencing a balance-of-payments crisis, in slow motion,” Barclays analysts including
Sebastian Vargas wrote in a report yesterday. “We feel the
authorities’ experimenting is in opposition to basic economic
laws, as expanding domestic credit and spending do not help
reduce external imbalances.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Cancel in  Buenos Aires  at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  