-- Argentina Banks on Railroads to Prolong Soybean Boom: Freight
-- B y   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z   a n d   M a t t   C r a z e
-- 2013-06-19T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/argentina-banks-on-railroads-to-prolong-soybean-boom-freight.html
Argentina ’s nationalization of two
railroads in the past month paves the way for the renovation of
a network from the foothills of the Andes to the coast, cutting
transport costs in the world’s third-largest soybean producer.  President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s administration
on May 22 took over the Belgrano Cargas railroad, which connects
the northern provinces to Parana River grain loaders operated by
Cargill Inc. and  Bunge Ltd. (BG) , among others. Two weeks later, she
expropriated Brazil’s  All America Latina Logistica SA (ALLL3) ’s
concession linking western Argentina with Atlantic ports.  Belgrano’s takeover ends nine years of limbo since its
renovation was first announced. With $2.1 billion in previously
announced loans from China for the network, Argentina can renew
railroads built over 100 years ago to access its agricultural
wealth, said Marcelo Bosch, appointed by Fernandez in May to run
the state railroad. Fernandez plans to use the lines to slash
farm transport costs and boost the country’s grains and oilseed
production by 50 percent to 150 million metric tons by 2020.  “The only way to boost grains and oilseed output is to
recover the cargo lines,” said Bosch, a former Credit Suisse
Group AG executive, in a June 12 interview. “Fortunately, we
have loan offers from  China  and we will use those facilities.”  The investment can’t come soon enough for farmers. Farm
associations went on strike June 15 to protest high taxes and
poor infrastructure. The strike, set to end today, halted 90
percent of grain and oilseed deliveries to the Rosario port, the
country’s largest agricultural export hub.  Strategic Importance  Argentina’s rail system “is strategic for the
competitiveness of exports,” Interior and Transport Minister
Florencio Randazzo told reporters on June 4. “We have to
recover the rolling stock, the rails and the infrastructure to
reach our goal of transporting via the Belgrano line 100,000
tons a month by the end of this year and 300,000 by 2015.”  China has offered a total of $10 billion in loans to revamp
the Belgrano railroad, Agriculture Minister Norberto Yauhar said
in a June 13 interview in  Buenos Aires , shortly after visiting
officials in China.  “China is Argentina’s new political partner,” said
Yauhar, who is scheduled to meet China’s deputy agriculture
minister today in Rosario, a city on the banks of the Parana
River where most of Argentina’s crops are loaded for export.  The first objective of the freight companies’ new
management is to renegotiate one loan of $2.1 billion agreed to
with China Development Bank Corp. and  China Citic Bank Corp. (998) ,
Bosch, 41, said by phone from Buenos Aires on June 13.  Truck Transport  The country currently relies on trucks to carry 84 percent
of its grains and oilseeds to ports. Of the rest, 3 percent is
transported by barge and 13 percent by rail. Rail freight costs
5 cents per kilometer, while road haulage averages 11 cents,
according to Gustavo Lopez, a Buenos Aires-based logistics
analyst at the Buenos Aires Cereals Exchange.  The Argentine transport figures contrast with those of the
U.S., where 65 percent of the grain and oilseed harvest is
shipped by barge, 25 percent by railroad and 10 percent by
truck, Lopez said.  Farmers say they need to cut costs to remain competitive on
global markets as prices and wages leap about 25 percent a year
in Argentina.  “Ambitious as it looks, the renewal of the cargo railways
will happen,” Hugo Sigman, who operates farms spanning 400,000
hectares (988,400 acres) throughout the country, said in an
interview in Buenos Aires. “The project is a must if Argentina
wants to increase its output.”  More Capacity  The newly nationalized Belgrano Cargas y Logistica SA,
which connects the ports of Rosario and Buenos Aires to 13 of
Argentina’s 23 provinces, will absorb the lines nationalized
from ALL, as well as the Urquiza and San Martin lines that ALL
had operated.  With these additions, its transport capacity will grow to
as much as 6 million tons a year from 1.2 million tons, Bosch
said. Among investment plans are the relaying of 1,000
kilometers (622 miles) of track at a minimum cost of $1 million
per kilometer, Bosch said. Belgrano was “just treading water”
under the previous ownership, he said.  Argentina’s widening budget deficit, which was the largest
in 11 years in 2012, and competing demands for funds from state-controlled oil company YPF SA will hinder attempts to turn
around the nationalized and recently created company, said
Michael Cordonnier, president of Chicago-based Soybean & Corn
Advisor Inc.  The government has failed to improve companies it has
seized previously, he said.  Track Record  “I am dubious that the government’s intent is to make
things better,” said Cordonnier, adding that Argentina is
already more competitive than  Brazil  in transporting soybeans
from inland farms to the coast. “The government doesn’t have a
good track record in making things better.”  Two commuter trains crashed on the outskirts of Buenos
Aires last week, killing three people, on a rail line operated
by a company under a government concession. The line had been
taken over from a different company last year after a separate
accident that killed 52.  “One of the challenges we have imposed on ourselves is to
recuperate the service of passenger and cargo trains,” Randazzo
said June 4, when the government expropriated the ALL
concessions.  Argentina accounts for about 20 percent of the global
soybean harvest, trailing only Brazil and the U.S. in global
rankings, according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture . The
country is set to harvest 51 million metric tons of soybeans in
the 2012/2013 agricultural year, the second-highest on record,
USDA figures show.  Second-Largest  Argentina was also the world’s second-largest corn
exporter, behind Brazil, in the 2012/2013 agricultural year,
according to the USDA.  China is the largest buyer of Argentine soybeans and
imported more than $5 billion of agricultural goods from the
South American country last year, according to the  Agriculture
Ministry .  The government may face protests by truckers who stand to
lose business from a revived rail service. Labor union leader
Pablo Moyano announced a surprise two-day strike on June 10 to
demand a pay increase. The strike was suspended after getting a
26 percent wage increase.  Truckers have disrupted soybean harvests since Moyano’s
father, Hugo, leader of the union confederation, fell out with
the president in 2011, driving up prices on the Chicago
Mercantile Exchange during the southern Hemisphere harvest
months between March and May.  Ownership Stakes  The truckers union and the rail-workers union each owned
6.6 percent stakes in the group that managed the Belgrano line
before it was expropriated by the government. Hugo Moyano
declined to comment, his spokesman, Hector Lopez, said in a
telephone interview.  The government seized the concession to operate the
Belgrano rail company from a group led by Argentine businessman
Franco Macri. Macri’s son,  Mauricio Macri , is the mayor of
Buenos Aires and a political opponent of Fernandez.  Alberto Rodriguez, president of the Grains Exporters
chamber, downplayed the risk of conflict between the railroad
project and the truckers. Farmers will still need trucks to
deliver their products to the train station, he said.  “If the railroad plan is really executed, it will boost
Argentine oilseeds exports as current truck freight costs make
it impossible for farmers in many provinces to even consider
planting soy or corn,” Rodriguez said in an interview.
“Exporters have always expressed their intention to bring in
money for such infrastructure if conditions are clear.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pablo Gonzalez in Buenos Aires at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  