-- Asian Stocks Rise as Topix Rallies on Japanese Exports
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2013-06-19T10:24:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/asian-stocks-rise-as-topix-jumps-on-japanese-exports.html
Asian  stocks  rose, with the regional
benchmark index heading for a two-week high, as investors
awaited the conclusion of a Federal Reserve policy meeting.
Japanese exporters rallied after the nation’s shipments
increased more than analysts estimated.  Honda Motor Co. (7267) , a Japanese carmaker that gets about 83
percent of sales from overseas, added 2 percent.  Rio Tinto (RIO)  Group
gained 1.6 percent after a report the world’s No. 2 mining
company will cut jobs at its Australian  iron-ore  operations.
China Mengniu Dairy Co., the country’s largest dairy producer,
surged 6.9 percent in Hong Kong after offering to buy a local
infant-formula maker.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index advanced 1 percent to 133.02 as
7:22 p.m. in  Tokyo , with about five shares rising for every four
that fell on the gauge. More than $2 trillion has been erased
from global markets since Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said May
22 U.S. policy makers could scale back stimulus efforts if the
employment outlook shows “sustainable improvement.”  “The market has been fretting over what the FOMC meeting
will come out with,” Martin Lakos, division director at
Macquarie Private Wealth in Sydney, told Bloomberg Television.
“There’s absolutely no explicit indication at all of a change
in monetary policy by the Fed until we see the  unemployment rate 
go down to 6.5 percent. We clearly see what the Japanese
government is putting in place to get the economy going.”  Japan’s Topix index advanced 1.9 percent and the benchmark
Nikkei 225 Stock Average gained 1.8 percent. Australia’s S&P/ASX
200 Index climbed 1 percent.  Cash Crunch  China’s Shanghai Composite Index fell 0.7 percent to the
lowest close since Dec. 13 amid signs a cash crunch is worsening
in the mainland. The nation’s one-year interest-rate swap, which
is used to exchange fixed payments for the floating seven-day
repurchase rate, surged as much as 41 basis points to 4.39
percent, the highest level since September 2011.  Hong Kong ’s
Hang Seng Index dropped 1.1 percent while a gauge of mainland
shares in the city retreated 1.5 percent.  New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index slid 0.4 percent. South Korea’s
Kospi index lost 0.7 percent. Taiwan’s Taiex index fell 0.1
percent.  Singapore ’s Straits Times Index slipped 0.5 percent.  Shares on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index traded at 12.7 times
estimated earnings yesterday, compared with multiples of 15 for
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 13 for the Stoxx Europe 600
Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Futures on the  S&P 500 Index  increased 0.1 percent today.
The gauge climbed 0.8 percent yesterday to its highest level
this month as investors awaited the outcome of the Fed meeting
for clues on the central bank’s plan for stimulus.  “As there was market turmoil on concern about tapering in
the U.S., I think the Fed is going to try to bring some calm,”
said  Hiroichi Nishi , an equities manager in Tokyo at SMBC Nikko
Securities Inc., a unit of Japan’s second-biggest lender.  Yen Boost  Japanese exporters gained after a report showed the
nation’s shipments surged in May by most since 2010, beating
analysts’ estimates and underscoring the impact of Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe’s reflation campaign by weakening the yen. A
weaker yen boost the value of overseas income at carmakers and
electronics manufacturers when repatriated.  Honda gained 2 percent to 3,565 yen. Canon Inc., the
world’s biggest camera maker, climbed 2.4 percent to 3,250 yen.
Nintendo Co., the maker of Wii game consoles, rose 4.8 percent
to 11,000 yen.  SoftBank Corp., a Japanese mobile carrier controlled by
billionaire Masayoshi Son, climbed 4.2 percent to 5,460 yen
after rival bidder Dish Network Corp. said it won’t make a new
offer for Sprint Nextel Corp.  News Corp .  Rio Tinto  increased 1.6 percent to A$54.38 in Sydney. The
company is cutting jobs including managerial roles at its iron-ore mines in  Western Australia , the Australian Broadcasting
Corp. reported on its website, without saying where it got the
information.  News Corp., the Wall Street Journal publisher spun off by
 Rupert Murdoch , fell in its Sydney debut. The billionaire’s
newspaper assets started trading separately in a split from his
entertainment businesses.  The Chess depositary interests, the Australian equivalent
of an ADR, debuted at A$15 before closing at A$14.55. Shares in
the U.S. television and movie businesses, which will be renamed
21st Century Fox, rose 5.1 percent to A$30.53 after being
adjusted for the split.  China Mengniu climbed 6.9 percent to HK$28.70 in Hong Kong
after offering HK$12.5 billion ($1.6 billion) to buy infant-formula maker Yashili International Holdings Ltd.  Shippers Rise  Shipping companies rallied after the  Baltic Dry Index (BDIY) ,
which tracks the cost of shipping raw materials from iron ore to
corn, rose for a ninth day in  London  yesterday. Shares also
gained after A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S, the world’s largest
container line, said it will pool vessels with its biggest
competitors in an effort to manage overcapacity and raise
unprofitable freight rates.  Nippon Yusen KK (9101) , Japan’s second-largest shipping company,
climbed 4 percent to 263 yen. Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd. surged
9.5 percent to 207 yen. Hyundai Merchant Marine Co., South
Korea’s biggest shipping line, rose 2.1 percent to 14,600 won.  Among stocks that fell, Tokyo Electric Power Co., owner of
the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant wrecked during the March
2011 earthquake and tsunami, dropped 3.9 percent to 517 yen
after the company said it found unsafe levels of radiation in
groundwater at the facility.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  