-- Hatzius Says Fed Chairman Change Wouldn’t Upend Policies
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k   a n d   A l e x a n d r i a   B a c a
-- 2013-06-19T18:29:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/hatzius-says-fed-chairman-change-wouldn-t-cause-policy-upheaval.html
The U.S. Federal Reserve won’t make
major policy changes regardless of who leads the central bank
after Chairman  Ben Bernanke ’s term ends in January, said  Jan Hatzius , Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s chief economist.  “I don’t think you’re going to see a major change in the
approach, whoever is the next Fed chairman,” Hatzius said,
speaking on Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers” with  Erik
Schatzker  and Sara Eisen. “The uncertainty is probably more
limited than in past episodes.”  Hatzius said that in general “the Fed is being viewed as
having done a good job over the last few years” and “there is
a sense that things, while they’re still very sluggish, are
gradually getting better.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  released its policy
decision and economic outlook at 2 p.m. today at the conclusion
of its two-day meeting in Washington. The central bank will
continue making $85 billion in monthly bond purchases in an
effort to spur  employment  growth and speed economic expansion.  Hatzius, speaking before the meeting, said it remains
unclear what data would prompt the central bank to reduce the
unprecedented asset purchases, which have expanded the Fed’s
balance sheet to a  record  $3.4 trillion.  While the bank has specified that it will keep the main
 interest rate  near zero at least until unemployment dips below
6.5 percent and as long as inflation projections don’t exceed
2.5 percent, policy makers have said only that they are looking
for the labor market to improve “substantially” before scaling
back asset purchases.  Indicator Set  “They just haven’t managed to come up with a commonly-agreed sort of set of indicators that would point to reduced
purchases,” Hatzius said.  Hatzius said measures of the speed of labor market growth,
such as payroll growth and hiring and quit rates, are more
important than the overall level of unemployment.  “The key is, I think on the labor market side, a
sufficient pace of improvement,” he said. “If more people were
to quit their jobs, that’d be an indicator that people felt
better about the momentum in the labor market.”  Inflation has gained importance in the past six months,
Hatzius said, as it has moved below the Fed’s 2 percent target.  ‘Going Slow’  “That would be one other reason for going slow in terms of
scaling back,” Hatzius said.  A gauge of consumer prices excluding food and energy that
is watched by the Fed rose 1.1 percent in the year through
April, matching the smallest gain since records started in 1960.
With inflation below the Fed’s 2 percent long-run goal and the
jobless rate at 7.6 percent, the Fed is falling short of its
mandate to ensure stable prices and maximum employment.  Low inflation gives the Fed room to continue its monthly
bond purchases.  The central bank will probably wait to taper its bond
buying until its Oct. 29-30 meeting, when it will cut its
monthly purchases to $65 billion, according to the median
estimate in a June 4-5 Bloomberg survey of 59 economists. By
then, inflation will be rising toward the Fed’s target,
accelerating to 1.3 percent in the third quarter and 1.5 percent
in the fourth quarter, according to economists’ estimates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in  Washington  at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net ;
Alexandria Baca in Washington at 
 abaca3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  