-- Aussie Dollar Holds 3-Day Loss Versus Greenback as FOMC Meets
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d
-- 2013-06-19T06:50:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/aussie-dollar-falls-a-fourth-day-versus-greenback-as-fomc-meets.html
The Australian dollar remained lower
following a three-day loss against the greenback before the
 Federal Reserve  concludes a policy meeting today.  The Aussie fell to the lowest in almost a week ahead of a
news conference by Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  that could
provide clues on when policy makers will begin scaling back
quantitative easing that tends to debase the U.S. currency. New
Zealand’s kiwi dollar advanced after data showing a narrowing in
the nation’s current-account deficit and the first gain in
whole-milk powder prices in two months.  “I think the message is very much nervous, choppy price
action going into Bernanke,” said  Robert Rennie , a Sydney-based
chief currency strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  “Aussie
hasn’t traded well. I do think though, that we’re showing some
signs of building a base in this 94, 94.50 U.S.-cent region.”  The Australian dollar was little changed at 94.84 U.S.
cents as of 4:42 p.m. in Sydney from yesterday, when it dropped
0.6 percent. It earlier touched 94.35, the lowest since June 13.
The kiwi rose 0.2 percent to 80.03 U.S. cents, following a 1.6
percent slide over the previous three sessions.  Bernanke said on May 22 the central bank could reduce its
monthly purchases of a combined $85 billion of Treasuries and
mortgage-backed securities if the employment outlook shows
sustainable improvement. The Fed will trim purchases to $65
billion at its Oct. 29-30 meeting, according to a Bloomberg News
survey of economists this month.  Benchmark central-bank rates are 2.75 percent in  Australia 
and 2.5 percent in  New Zealand . Although both are record lows,
they compare with rates as low as zero in the U.S. and Japan,
attracting investor flows into the South Pacific nations’
higher-yielding assets.  Rate Bets  Traders are  pricing  in 37 basis points of interest-rate
cuts by the  Reserve Bank  of Australia within 12 months,
according to a Credit Suisse Group AG indexes based on swap
contracts. They  see  39 basis points of increases by the  Reserve
Bank of New Zealand .  Futures traders extended record bets that the Aussie will
fall against the  U.S. dollar , figures from the Washington-based
Commodity Futures Trading Commission from last week showed. The
difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other
large speculators on a decline in the Aussie compared with those
on a gain -- so-called  net shorts  -- was 63,277 on June 11, the
most in data going back to January 1993.  Biggest Decliner  The Aussie has tumbled 10 percent in the past three months,
the most among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. New Zealand’s dollar is
the next biggest decliner, with a 3.9 percent slide.  A drop in commodity prices means Australia’s dollar is
likely to weaken further to 90 U.S. cents by year end, Nomura
Holdings Inc. strategists Charles St-Arnaud and Yujiro Goto
wrote in a note dated yesterday.  Demand for the kiwi was supported after data today showed
the current-account deficit narrowed in the first quarter to 4.8
percent of gross domestic product from 5 percent in the prior
period. The result was in line with analyst estimates.  Whole-milk powder auction prices rose for the first time in
two months, according to a trade-weighted index posted on
Auckland-based Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd.’s
 GlobalDairyTrade  website. Powder for delivery across all
contracts through December rose 2.2 percent. New Zealand is the
world’s largest exporter of dairy products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  