-- Aussie Lenders Wary of Globe-Trotting Locals
-- B y   P a u l i n a   D u r a n
-- 2013-06-19T01:14:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/aussie-lenders-wary-of-globe-trotting-locals-barminco-ceo-says.html
Australian banks are reluctant to
support local companies expanding overseas, according to the
head of mining services provider Barminco Holdings Pty, which is
paying about 9 percent to borrow in the U.S.  “The Aussie banks are inherently conservative,” the
company’s Perth-based Chief Executive Officer Peter Stokes said
in a phone interview. “They’re really not interested in Aussie
companies dealing outside of  Australia  other than their tier 1-BHP and the likes with multinational syndicates.”  That contrasts with international lenders, which are
attracted to Australia’s economic stability and willing to back
borrowers seeking to expand in  Africa , said Stokes, who joined
the company as CEO in February. Barminco last month used the
proceeds of a $485 million bond sold to U.S. institutional
investors and a A$100 million ($95 million) loan from five
offshore banks to refinance debt, people familiar with the
matter said.  Companies in Australia are borrowing record amounts from
North American investors, who, facing a fifth year of near-zero
benchmark  interest rates , are searching for better returns in
the high-yield market and willing to lend large amounts of money
on flexible terms. Barminco sought U.S.-based financing after
negotiating more time to repay debt that was due in February, a
person familiar with the matter said in March. Its 2018 bonds
carry a B- rating from Standard and Poor’s, the sixth-highest
junk grade.  Restrictive Terms  Barminco’s notes were sold at a spread of 818 basis points
more than similar-maturity Treasuries, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Five-year (USGG5YR)  U.S. government bond yields
have risen 30 basis points this quarter to 1.06 percent.  Margins for loans signed in the Asia-Pacific region outside
 Japan  this month average about 151 basis points more than the
London interbank offered rate compared with about 196 basis
points at the start of the year, Bloomberg data show.  High-yield securities typically don’t come with restrictive
financial covenants which require borrowers to regularly test
financial ratios.  “A high-yield bond was a very attractive option for us,”
Stokes said. “It’s given us the financial security and
stability that we haven’t had now for a couple of years.”  Barminco plans to ride out a lackluster outlook for
business locally by expanding in new markets overseas, Stokes
said.  The deferral of major Australian projects by large miners
in response to falling commodity prices will weaken earnings and
spark job cuts, according to mining support companies  Boart
Longyear Ltd. (BLY) , Transfield Services Ltd. and UGL Ltd.  Africa Expansion  Investment in the resources sector may have peaked after
about A$150 billion of mining and energy projects were delayed
or scrapped in the past year, the Bureau of Resources and Energy
Economics said in a May 22 report.  “There’s a real feeling in Africa that it’s where
Kalgoorlie or Western Australia was 20 years ago in the hard
rock or gold space,” Stokes said. “There really is a lot of
opportunity.”  Barminco’s revenues are currently about A$825 million, he
said. Africa accounts for almost 20 percent, via a gold-mining
joint venture with Perth-based  Ausdrill Ltd. (ASL) , according to
Stokes.  Barminco is also in discussions to secure copper projects
in Africa, plans to grow operations in north Asian countries and
may begin business in  Latin America  within two years, he said.  ‘No Pressure’  The company, which was bought by Sydney-based Gresham
Private Equity Ltd. in 2007, is also planning to trim gold-mining projects to less than half of operations by mid-2014,
from more than 55 percent currently, Stokes said.  Gold prices have tumbled this year as some investors lost
faith in the precious metal as a store of value and amid concern
the  Federal Reserve  will slow the pace of stimulus.  Barminco also works for nickel, copper, zinc and tin
miners, and doesn’t rely on a single mine for more than 15
percent of its business, Stokes said.  Plans for an initial share sale, deferred once in 2011
because of unfavorable market conditions, also aren’t back on
the agenda, Stokes said. Barminco is instead focused on
generating new business and a new contract may be announced in
the next fortnight, he said.  “There’s no pressure from our shareholder to IPO ’or
else’,” Stokes said. “Unless something dramatically changes in
the market, I don’t think it would make sense.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paulina Duran in Sydney at 
 pduran10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  