-- Aussie Yield Spread Seen Sinking to 2001 Low
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d
-- 2013-06-20T03:35:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/aussie-yield-spread-seen-sinking-to-2001-low-australia-credit.html
The yield advantage on Australian
sovereign bonds may crash to the least since 2001 as the central
bank shows it’s willing to cut record-low interest rates even
further, the nation’s largest lender said.  The extra yield benchmark Australian notes offer over U.S.
counterparts will shrink to 80 basis points by 2015 and may drop
to as little as 50,  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  forecasts.
The gap will narrow to 87 basis points by September 2014,
according to Bloomberg News surveys of economists, after
touching 107 yesterday, the least since November 2008.  The Reserve Bank said this week it retains scope to cut
rates as the economy is dragged down by the end of a record
mining investment boom and manufacturing struggles to fill the
gap. Lower borrowing costs would further reduce sovereign yields
and weaken the Aussie dollar just as the U.S. Federal Reserve
signals it may reduce monetary stimulus this year.  “We are going to have a slowdown in Australia, and if
things go badly, it could turn into a recession,” said Philip Brown, a fixed-income strategist at Sydney-based CBA. If the run
of poor data continues in  Australia  against the backdrop of a
resurgent U.S., a spread of 50 basis points is plausible,
according to CBA.  The 10-year rate was 3.63 percent at 1:21 p.m. in Sydney,
compared with 2.35 percent for similar-dated Treasuries.
Australian sovereign debt returned 1.2 percent from the end of
March to June 18, while U.S. bonds handed investors a 1 percent
loss, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show.  The gap to Treasuries reached 51 basis points on March 28,
2006, the least since May 2001, before soaring to a decade-high
of 277 in February 2008.  ‘Considerable Uncertainty’  “The inflation outlook as currently assessed might provide
some scope for further easing, should that be required to
support demand,” the RBA said this week in minutes from its
June 4 meeting, when it left its  benchmark  at 2.75 percent.  The central bank repeated that resource investment was near
its peak and would remain high for the next year or so. There
was “considerable uncertainty” beyond that, it said.  Manufacturing has failed to signal it can pick up the
slack. It  contracted  for a 15th month in May, after dropping to
a four-year low the month before, according to purchasing
managers surveys by Australian Industry Group.  “It’s the transition phase in the Australian economy
that’s concerning the market,” said Steven Mansell, the Sydney-based head of Group of 10 rates strategy for the Asia-Pacific
region at Citigroup Inc. “The market will hold on to
expectations of lower policy rates, whereas the only way is up
in the U.S.”  Rate Bets  Swaps markets are pricing in 28 basis points, or 0.28
percentage point, of RBA cuts over the coming year, while they
see the equivalent of 16 basis points of tightening at the Fed,
according to Credit Suisse Group AG indexes.  U.S. economic growth has trailed Australia’s since 2006. It
will recover to match the South Pacific nation by 2015, with
both nations’ output increasing 3 percent that year, according
to the median forecast of economists polled by Bloomberg.
Strategists raised their forecasts for the possibility of an
Australian recession in the next 12 months to 10 percent this
month, from 5 percent in May.  Fed Optimism  The Fed may start dialing down its unprecedented bond-buying program this year and end it entirely in mid-2014 if the
economy finally achieves the sustainable growth policy makers
have sought since the recession ended in 2009, Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke said yesterday.  The U.S. central bank left the monthly pace of bond
purchases unchanged at $85 billion, while saying that “downside
risks to the outlook for the economy and the labor market” have
diminished.  “With all the liquidity awash in the world, and an
uncertain world with no growth, what you do is search for yield,
and Australia’s triple-A bond market was one of the primary
beneficiaries,” said Sam Tuck, a senior foreign-exchange
manager at ANZ Bank New Zealand Ltd. in Auckland. “Now that can
start to unwind.”  The prospect of a narrowing yield gap and slowing economic
growth has made Australia’s dollar the worst performer over the
past three months among 10 developed-market currencies tracked
by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. It has fallen 11
percent, while the U.S. dollar advanced 0.6 percent.  Futures traders extended record bets that the Aussie will
fall against the greenback, figures from the Washington-based
Commodity Futures Trading Commission from last week showed.
Traders swung to a record 63,277 net positions betting on Aussie
declines on June 11, from net longs of 83,971 on April 2.  “There’s been a shift in relative fortunes,” said Janu Chan, a Sydney-based economist at St. George Bank Ltd. “There’s
a realization that the gap between Australia and the U.S. is
shrinking.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  