-- Lions Hand Prop Surprise Start as Wallabies Pick Rookies
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-06-20T07:26:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/australia-picks-folau-among-three-rookies-for-lions-rugby-opener.html
The British and Irish Lions picked a
prop who wasn’t in the original squad among eight Test newcomers
for the combined team in its rugby series opener against
 Australia , which selected three rookies of its own.  Alex Corbisiero, who was only called up as a replacement
for injured Irishman Cian Healy two weeks ago, will start at
loosehead prop ahead of England teammate Mako Vunipola at
Brisbane’s Suncorp Stadium in two days.  “Technically, Alex is probably a little bit sounder, and
we feel we’ve potentially got a little bit of an edge there,”
Lions head coach Warren Gatland said at a televised news
conference. “Mako coming off the bench will give us a huge
amount of impetus.”  Open-side flanker Sam Warburton, one of eight Welshmen in
the starting lineup, will captain the Lions in a forward pack
featuring Tom Youngs at hooker. In the backs, newcomers Leigh
Halfpenny, Alex Cuthbert,  George North ,  Jonathan Davies  and
 Jonathan Sexton  will be joined by scrum-half  Mike Phillips  and
outside center Brian O’Driscoll, who will be playing his seventh
Test for the Lions.  North, who leads the tourists on their 10-match trip in
clean line breaks and meters gained, was yesterday passed fit
after recovering from a tight hamstring. Injured centers Jamie
Roberts and Manu Tuilagi, and winger Tommy Bowe, were the only
players not available for selection for the first of three
matches against Australia, said Gatland, whose squad is seeking
the Lions’ first Test series win since 1997.  “The boys who aren’t involved have been very supportive,”
Warburton said. “They know there’s every chance they could get
back into the Test team.”  Code-Switcher  The Wallabies, who rallied for a 2-1 victory when the teams
last met in 2001, named code-switcher Israel Folau for his
international rugby debut alongside Christian Leali’ifano and
Ben Mowen. They’ll start at inside center and blind-side
flanker, respectively.  Folau was picked on the right wing after playing 14 Super
Rugby games at fullback since joining the New South Wales
Waratahs in December following stints in rugby league and
Australian Rules football.  “This time last year I was playing AFL so things have
changed a lot in a short time,” Folau, who’s represented
Australia’s rugby league team, said at a news conference. “It’s
been a great journey for me so far. Saturday night’s going to be
huge for me. I can’t wait to get out there.”  Kicking Option  The Wallabies’ lineup features six starters from their most
recent Test, a 14-12 win against Wales on Dec. 1, as players
including captain  James Horwill , scrum-half Will Genia and  James O’Connor  return from injury. O’Connor will start at fly-half for
the second time in an elite Test, with Kurtley Beale on the
replacements’ bench.  Leali’ifano’s inclusion ahead of the hard-running  Pat
McCabe  gives Australia another ball player in midfield and adds
a second kicking option alongside O’Connor, who has played most
of his international rugby on the wing or at full-back.  “He’s a very well-rounded player,” Wallabies coach  Robbie Deans  said of Leali’ifano. “He opens up the edges of the field
and he’s got a huge workrate defensively.”  Australia, which entered training camp on June 2 to prepare
for the series, lost all six previous matches against the Lions
in Brisbane. New Zealand is the only team to have beaten the
Wallabies in the 21 Tests played at Suncorp Stadium.  The Lions 100 percent tour record ended in their sixth game
two days ago with a 14-12 defeat to the ACT Brumbies.  “The result against the Brumbies on Tuesday night was a
bit of a blip,” Gatland said. “But we feel very positive about
where we are, we have a few hit-outs under our belts and that’s
given us that match-hardened edge we’ve been looking for.
Physically we feel in good shape and very fresh.”  BRITISH AND IRISH LIONS: Leigh Halfpenny, Alex Cuthbert,
 Brian O’Driscoll , Jonathan Davies, George North, Jonathan
Sexton, Mike Phillips, Jamie Heaslip, Sam Warburton (captain),
Tom Croft, Paul O’Connell, Alun Wyn Jones, Adam Jones, Tom
Youngs, Alex Corbisiero.  Replacements: Richard Hibbard, Mako Vunipola, Dan Cole,
Geoff Parling, Dan Lydiate, Ben Youngs, Owen Farrell, Sean
Maitland.  AUSTRALIA: Berrick Barnes, Israel Folau, Adam Ashley-Cooper, Christian Leali’ifano, Digby Ioane, James O’Connor, Will
Genia,  Wycliff Palu , Michael Hooper, Ben Mowen, James Horwill
(captain), Kane Douglas,  Ben Alexander ,  Stephen Moore , Benn
Robinson.  Replacements: Saia Fainga’a, James Slipper, Sekope Kepu,
 Rob Simmons , Liam Gill,  Nick Phipps , Pat McCabe, Kurtley Beale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  