-- Bacardi Selling First Euro Bonds Since 2009 as Yields Climb
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-06-19T10:38:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/bacardi-selling-first-euro-bonds-since-2009-as-yields-climb.html
Bacardi Ltd. is selling its first
euro bonds in four years as the average yield investors demand
to hold investment-grade corporate debt approaches the highest
in 3 1/2 months.  The world’s biggest rum maker is offering 650 million euros
($870 million) of 10-year notes, according to a person familiar
with the Bermuda-based company’s deal. The average yield
investors demand to hold corporate bonds rose four basis points
to 1.95 percent, approaching the 14-week high reached on June
12, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  Benchmark credit gauges were little changed today before a
Federal Reserve meeting that may clarify any plans to slow U.S.
monetary stimulus. Yields rose from record lows and the cost of
insuring corporate debt against default climbed last month after
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said that measures could be trimmed if
the jobs outlook shows sustainable improvement.  “There could be more volatility in the market after the
Fed meeting so it’s quite a prudent approach for Bacardi to
issue now,” said Roger Webb, a London-based  fund manager  at
Scottish Widows Investment Partnership. “There’s a window of
opportunity to get deals done now as the market was much more
volatile last week, and after the Fed meeting who knows what may
happen.”  The Bacardi bonds may be priced to yield about 100 basis
points more than the mid-swap rate, the person familiar said,
compared with an average 95 basis points in the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch 7-10 Year Euro Non-Financial Index.  Credit Swaps  The cost of insuring against losses on European corporate
debt was little changed with the Markit iTraxx Europe Index of
credit-default swaps on 125 investment-grade companies holding
at 108 basis points. The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of
contracts on 50 companies with high-yield ratings was unchanged
at 443 basis points.  The proceeds from Bacardi’s new notes may be used to redeem
650 million euros of bonds maturing next year and for general
corporate purposes, the person familiar said.  Bacardi sold dollar-denominated securities in 2011,
Bloomberg data show. Amy Federman, a spokeswoman for the company
in  Bermuda , didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail sent outside
office hours.  Interxion Holding NV (INXN) , the Dutch provider of internet data-center services, is also in the new issue market today with an
offering of 300 million euros of seven-year speculative-grade
bonds that may yield 6 percent to 6.25 percent, according to a
person familiar with the deal. The proceeds from the notes will
be used to fund the tender for its existing 9.5 percent notes
due 2017, the person said.  Interxion’s notes are expected to be rated B2 by Moody’s
Investors Service, five levels below investment grade, according
to a June 18 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  