-- Background Checks Faked With Lax Oversight, Watchdog Says
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k
-- 2013-06-19T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/background-checks-faked-with-lax-oversight-watchdog-says.html
Investigators charged with
conducting background checks of U.S. national-security workers
have falsified records and aren’t receiving adequate oversight,
according to an inspector general’s testimony.  One worker fabricated 1,600 credit checks before it was
discovered her own background investigation had been falsified,
Patrick McFarland, inspector general of the U.S.  Office of
Personnel Management , said in prepared testimony obtained by
 Bloomberg News  in advance of a Senate hearing tomorrow.  While 18 investigators, including contract and government
employees, have been convicted of falsifying reports since 2006,
McFarland said the inspector general’s office lacks the
resources to clear a backlog of an additional 36 cases.  “My office has been alarmed for several years about the
lack of oversight,” he said in his written testimony. “Our
resources remain woefully inadequate, preventing us from
performing the level of oversight that such an important program
requires.”  McFarland provided few details about the cases.  Passing a government background check is a requirement
before the employee or a contractor is granted a security
clearance.  Snowden Leak  The disclosure of secret documents describing two U.S.
surveillance programs by Edward Snowden, a former National
Security Agency contractor who had worked for  Booz Allen
Hamilton Holding Corp. (BAH)  and had a top-secret clearance, has
called attention to the government’s process of vetting people
who handle sensitive information.  Two Senate  Homeland Security  and Governmental Affairs
subcommittees plan to hold a hearing addressing the government’s
security-clearance process.  The Office of Personnel Management is responsible for some
90 percent of the background investigations of U.S. government
employees and contractors. The Pentagon and Department of
Homeland Security are the biggest users of the program.  The personnel office conducts more than 2 million
investigations a year, according to its website. It vets
applicants for federal agency jobs and applicants for security
clearances.  While the personnel office charges other federal agencies
to conduct the checks, it isn’t allowed to include the cost of
the inspector general’s oversight in its prices, according to
McFarland.  President  Barack Obama  has included in his fiscal 2014
budget a proposal that would let the agency include oversight
costs in the prices of its background investigations, McFarland
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Taborek in Washington at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  