-- Bank of Canada Governor Poloz's Speech Near Toronto (Text)
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-06-19T16:25:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/bank-of-canada-governor-poloz-s-speech-near-toronto-text-.html
Following is the text of a speech
Bank of  Canada  Governor Stephen Poloz is delivering today in
Burlington, Ontario, near Toronto.  Reconstruction: Rebuilding Business Confidence in Canada  Introduction  Thank you for that introduction and to all of you for
coming today. It is a pleasure to deliver my first public speech
as Governor of the Bank of Canada here in the heart of southern
Ontario, especially since we are just down the road from my
hometown of Oshawa.  This region is a historic centre of Canadian industry and
commerce. It is home to some of Canada’s most storied businesses
and prestigious centres of learning. Many of the firms that made
this region and Canada strong were on the front lines as the
global financial crisis pushed the Canadian economy into
recession. As our economy continues to expand, it will be the
performance of the business sector here and across Canada over
the coming while that we will be watching with great interest.  That’s because what happens to business in Canada matters
for the  Bank of Canada . Not just because we care - which, let me
assure you, we do. But in order for us to do our job properly,
in order for us to promote the economic and financial welfare of
Canadians, we need to understand all the dynamics that feed into
the Canadian economy.  The Bank aims to keep inflation low, stable and
predictable. Our flexible inflation-targeting framework is the
best contribution monetary policy can make so that Canadian
households and businesses can make decisions about their
financial futures with confidence.  Over the past couple of decades, the average rate of
inflation has been very close to our 2 per cent target. Even
during the global economic and financial crisis, our commitment
did not waver. The inflation target is sacrosanct to us and has
become a credible anchor for the inflation expectations of
Canadians.  Moreover, the target is symmetrical: we care just as much
about inflation falling below as we do about it rising above the
target. When inflation falls below the target and interest rates
are correspondingly low, there is little room for conventional
monetary policy to respond to negative shocks. When inflation is
above target, the erosion of purchasing power becomes
significant and uncertainty about future prices makes it hard
for households and businesses to make good financial decisions.  Further, the framework has built-in flexibility with
respect to the amount of time it takes to return inflation to
target after a shock. Years of successful inflation targeting
have given the Bank the credibility to use this flexibility
during periods of economic stress. A flexible  exchange rate  is
also key to achieving our inflation targets over time.  The recent turmoil showed us the value of the credibility
we have earned. Like others, to address the stresses of the
crisis, we put the flexibility of our regime to work.
Nonetheless, throughout the recession and since, the inflation
expectations of Canadians have remained well anchored at the
target, proving that our framework is secure and working.  This past downturn was different from previous recessions.
Even though Canada performed better than our G-7 peers, the
Great Recession put many companies out of business, especially
small and exporting firms. Many of those that survived
dramatically reduced their operations, shuttering plants and
dismantling equipment.  These actions hurt - badly - in terms of job losses and
lost output. While both have recovered - in fact, surpassed
their pre-recession peaks - the structural damage caused by the
crisis lingers. Indeed, our recovery has been primarily driven
by higher household spending, while exports have lagged behind.
Rather than a recovery in the usual sense, this looks more like
a postwar reconstruction. Or, if you will allow me to slide into
more academic language for a moment and refer to the
Schumpeterian process of “creative destruction,” we’ve certainly
had the destruction. But the creation side of the equation has
been delayed by numerous unusual risks, heightened uncertainty,
and a lack of confidence.  This is what I want to talk about today. I want to discuss
the impact of the crisis on Canadian business and how the firms
that have survived have changed and are responding. We need
business confidence to continue to heal. This matters very much
to the Bank of Canada.  Our understanding of these issues will be part of the
rigorous distillation of information that drives our policy
decisions. As part of the process, we meet, we talk, we argue
and do our best to understand the significant forces driving the
economy. With our next policy decision on 17 July, we are now at
the early stage of this round.  Standard macroeconomic models can only go so far in
capturing today’s dynamics, and especially when uncertainty is
greater than normal, it is important to supplement the models
with insights directly from business.  My messages today will be relevant for companies across
Canada, but they resonate particularly in this region. As a
native of Oshawa, I understand that well. I have seen the impact
of the crisis and the recession on the auto sector in my
hometown. I have heard about it from the manufacturers and
exporters in this region. And the Bank has heard about it from
the financial community on Bay Street and from all types of
business leaders in southern Ontario who participate in the
Bank’s quarterly business outlook surveys.  Worst Recession Since the Depression  I probably don’t need to tell anyone in this room that the
recent global recession was the worst downturn experienced since
the Great Depression. In very short order, global GDP fell more
than 3 per cent and millions upon millions of jobs were lost. In
Canada, 432,000 jobs were lost and GDP fell 4.2 per cent. The
 unemployment rate  spiked to 8.7 per cent.  The severity of the global economic and financial crisis
delivered a direct, sharp blow to Canadian business. Canada
experienced a particularly deep contraction of investment and
exports.  The trauma was severe and long-lasting. Its impact was felt
by businesses across the country, businesses that saw their
markets dwindle and their balance sheets deteriorate. In a
downturn that lasts, say, nine months, a bank will likely let
its clients ride out the recession. But in a prolonged crisis,
the story is more complex. Credit can become tough to find.
Anecdotally, we know that otherwise solvent and creditworthy
firms were left with considerably less credit than they needed.
In too many cases, temporary plant shutdowns were not sufficient
to match the fall in demand or the decline in financing. Some
firms reduced their operations. Others simply closed their
doors.  Let’s look at some of the facts. During a normal growth
period in Canada, there is a steady increase in the number of
businesses in operation. In short, creative destruction results
in the net creation of new firms. But since the onset of the
recession, there has been limited net creation of businesses.
Canada’s exporters have been particularly hard hit. The group
most profoundly affected has been manufacturing exporters, whose
ranks have continued to shrink.  Canada is not alone in this regard. In the  United States ,
the dynamics were similar but even more dramatic. The net number
of new establishments fell for three years in a row until 2011,
when, finally, the trend turned around.  The Reconstruction Challenge  Perhaps there should be no surprise, then, given the
decline in global demand, the drop in the number of American
companies to trade with, and the related drop in the number of
Canadian exporters, that Canada’s export sector has lagged. It
is the only component of Canada’s GDP that remains below its
pre-recession peak. Our annual exports are more than $100
billion lower than would be typical at this point in a recovery
cycle.  Regaining the lost output of companies that have
disappeared or downsized will require that existing firms boost
their production, that they invest to expand their capacity, and
that the net creation of new firms resumes a higher growth path.
The good news is that the balance sheets of corporate Canada are
healthy and the capacity to invest exists.  We could see that the recession was causing a significant
structural change in the Canadian economy at the time. The Bank
acknowledged that this destruction of potential was happening in
its quarterly Monetary Policy Report in April 2009. Reflecting
its best judgment, the Bank reduced its estimates of potential
output growth in each of the years from 2009 to 2011.  Nonetheless, we were relatively fortunate in Canada. In the
immediate aftermath of the crisis, stimulative monetary and
fiscal policies proved highly effective in maintaining domestic
demand, particularly household expenditures. Household spending
was supported by strong growth in borrowing, which resulted in
record-high debt-to-income levels.  Given the circumstances, it was a good thing that
households had the capacity to expand their spending - this
provided a necessary cushion from the worst effects of the
global contraction. The Bank has been careful to remind people
that  interest rates  will rise at some point. We have urged
homeowners and other borrowers to do the arithmetic to ensure
that they will be able to manage their debts at more normal
interest rates. I am confident that this is exactly what people
are doing.  This growth model has been effective, but its limits are
clear. In fact, while recent data are choppy, we continue to see
a constructive evolution of activity in the housing sector. What
needs to happen next is for export momentum to build and
business investment to recover while the household sector
settles into a more balanced and sustainable growth path.  For all of this to happen will require the rebuilding of
Canada’s economic potential. That is what makes this recovery
cycle unique.  Automotive sector  Let me use some cases studies to illustrate this. The
structural transformation of the auto sector has been dramatic.
The 70-per cent decline in production from peak to trough was
brutal. Machinery was boxed up and sent overseas. Plants closed.
These were very hard times for this sector and those who make
their living from it.  The crisis in the auto sector prompted the federal
government to step in with extraordinary financial support. That
support helped save thousands of jobs throughout southern
Ontario.  The firms that survived have lowered their cost structures.
We are seeing more innovative processes and accelerated new
product development. These elements improve the competitiveness
of Canadian firms and position them well to go head-to-head with
U.S. and global parts-sector firms. They also help Canada to
gain a foothold in global supply chains.  The recovery of auto sales in the United States is clearly
under way - the first essential ingredient. But it remains to be
seen how the reconstruction process I’ve discussed today will
play out for this important sector.  Forestry  I could tell a similar story about Canada’s forestry
sector, which - like the auto sector - is much smaller than
before. In 2012, the Canadian forestry industry accounted for
about 1.2 per cent of total GDP, down from around 1.6 per cent
in 2007. During the same period, almost 60,000 workers - about
20 per cent of the forestry workforce - were displaced. Here,
too, the recovery in U.S. housing and the building of new
relationships in fast-growing markets, such as  China , are
contributing to improved confidence.  I could describe similar stories for other sectors
including ICT (information and communications technology) and
biotechnology. These are all stories that we need to keep
watching.  What businesses are telling us  From the frequent conversations the Bank has with business
leaders, we know that the entrepreneurial spirit is alive and
well in Canada. Some of the decline in exports reflects the
ingenuity of Canadian firms, including firms in this region, in
responding to the U.S. slowdown by pivoting their products and
marketing to the faster-growing segments of the Canadian
economy. Others became more competitive through restructuring or
finding a niche adjacent to their traditional market.  Such insights feed importantly into the Bank’s
understanding of the workings of the Canadian economy, and thus
into the policy deliberations of the Bank - and I strongly
believe that, especially in these unusual times, as we work to
understand the undercurrents of the recovery, this kind of
dialogue with the private sector is critical.  Confidence  To realize the economic growth that Canada is looking for -
a return to self-sustaining, self-generating growth - we need to
see the rebuilding of capacity, through both the expansion of
existing companies and the creation of new ones. This will
require growing confidence among existing businesses and
entrepreneurs.  The gathering momentum in foreign demand, especially in the
United States, should help lift the confidence of Canada’s
exporters. This is critical for Canadian firms to boost their
investment to expand their productive capacity. The sequence we
can anticipate is the following: foreign demand will build; our
exports will strengthen further; confidence will improve;
existing companies will expand; companies will invest to
increase capacity; and new ones will be created.  This sequence may already be underway.  Conclusion  To conclude: In monetary policy, actions are critically
important. The Bank is absolutely committed, as I mentioned
earlier, to keeping inflation predictable, stable and on target
so firms can make longer-term decisions in an environment of
confidence. But words, too, matter a great deal. By explaining
the cross-currents at work in our economy, our projections for
what’s ahead, and our monetary policy response, we can help to
heal business confidence. And in order to expand our
understanding of what’s happening in the real economy, we listen
to businesses, to labour groups and to industry associations.  Beneath our economic and financial statistics and analysis
are real people, making real decisions. Those decisions are hard
to make at any time, but when uncertainty is high and confidence
low, they can be even more difficult.  I am optimistic that the signs are there that the process
is under way. Right now, what we need most is stability and
patience.  To help nurture confidence, an active engagement with
Canadians must remain a cornerstone of the policy of the Bank of
Canada. So thank you for being here today. I’m keen to hear your
views, and I would be pleased to take your questions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  