-- Bank Mellat U.K. Sanctions on Nuclear Weapon Links Overturned
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-06-19T10:06:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/bank-mellat-u-k-sanctions-on-nuclear-weapon-links-overturned.html
The U.K. Supreme Court overturned a
ban stopping Bank Mellat from operating in Britain over
allegations it helped finance  Iran ’s nuclear weapons program.  The U.K. government’s case was based on “misconceptions
about the facts” and “singled out Bank Mellat without rational
grounds,” Judge Jonathan Sumption said in a ruling today.  The British government in 2009 prohibited any company
operating in the U.K. from dealing with the Tehran-based bank as
part of rules designed to prevent the development of nuclear
weapons in Iran. The bank claimed the restriction was illegal
and challenged it in court.  “This judgment refers to a 2009 order which is no longer
in use,” a spokeswoman for the U.K. Treasury said in a
statement. “It does not affect the way in which we currently
apply financial restrictions to Iran and will not affect the EU
asset freeze which remains in place against Bank Mellat.”  Some of the evidence considered by the court wasn’t made
public because of national-security concerns. In the ruling, the
court said the 20 minutes of private evidence hadn’t affected
its decision.  “Today’s ruling is a victory for the rule of law as much
as it is for Bank Mellat,” the bank’s lawyer, Sarosh Zaiwalla,
said in an e-mailed statement. “The judgment will put enormous
confidence in the independence of the British judiciary.”  Bank Mellat also won its case at the European General Court
in January overturning European sanctions. Those restrictions
remain in force while the case is appealed to the European Court
of Justice, according to the U.K. ruling. The lender has also
faced sanctions from the U.S. Treasury and South Korea.  The Iranian government owns 20 percent of Bank Mellat,
which has a 60 percent stake in London-based Persia
International Bank PLC, according to a 2011 U.K. court  ruling .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  