-- Bank of America Says Ethanol RINs Boost Gasoline Crack Spreads
-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2013-06-19T19:10:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/bank-of-america-says-ethanol-rins-boost-gasoline-crack-spreads.html
The value of Renewable
Identification Numbers, or RINs, for ethanol in the U.S. is
boosting the gasoline-Brent crude crack spread, Bank of America
Corp. analysts said in a report.  The  crack spread  has more than tripled this year to $14.88
dollars and is at seasonal highs in part because the value of
RINs has surged to 90 cents from 7 cents on Jan. 1, according to
the report.  “RINs prices have skyrocketed more than tenfold since the
start of the year due to concerns of shortages,” Shin Kim,
Sabine Schels and  Francisco Blanch  wrote in the report.  Each gallon of ethanol is assigned a tracking certificate
to show compliance with a government mandate, known as the
Renewable Fuels Standard, to blend 13.8 billion gallons of the
biofuel into gasoline this year and 14.4 billion in 2014.  Corn-based ethanol RINs  fell 3 cents to 90 cents yesterday
while advanced RINs, which cover Brazilian sugarcane-based
ethanol and biodiesel, slumped 2.5 cents to 97 cents, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Ethanol  production  fell last year for the first time since
1996, according to the  Renewable Fuels Association , as plants
across the U.S. Midwest tempered output in the face of
unprofitable returns because of record corn prices after the
worst drought since the 1930s.  Ethanol Mandate  “More importantly, the U.S. is nearing the point where
more ethanol use is being mandated than can be physically
blended into gasoline, otherwise known as the blend wall,” the
analysts wrote.  Ethanol is blended with the motor fuel in increments of as
much as 10 percent. While the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency has approved concentrations of as much as 15 percent in
gasoline, petroleum industry advocates have said that more
testing is needed.  “Currently, there is a physical limit to ethanol
consumption, given the prevalence of E-10 gasoline,” they
wrote. “At the same time, RFS volume blending requirements were
originally based on overly optimistic gasoline consumption
estimates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Parker in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  