-- Bank Secrecy, Hong Kong Rate Probe, OCC Scrutiny: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-06-19T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/bank-secrecy-hong-kong-rate-probe-occ-scrutiny-compliance.html
Group of Eight leaders agreed to
work for “a new global standard” to stamp out bank secrecy and
pledged to deter multinational companies’ tax-avoidance
strategies, according to a draft joint statement.  On the second day of talks in Enniskillen, Northern
Ireland, G-8 nations yesterday adopted a common approach to
standards for cross-border disclosure and tax-data sharing among
authorities, saying they “commit to establish the automatic
exchange of information between tax authorities” to shine a
light on how companies and individuals are meeting tax
requirements.  “We will work to create a common template for
multinationals to report to tax authorities where they make
their profits and pay their taxes across the world,” according
to the draft distributed yesterday after a night of bargaining
by aides to the eight heads of state and government.  G-8 countries agreed to publish “national action plans to
make information on who really owns and profits from companies
and trusts available to tax collection and law enforcement
agencies, for example, through central registries of company
beneficial ownership,” according to the draft.  Governments’ efforts to close down avenues for
multinationals to channel profits through the lowest-tax
locations and to crack down on  tax evasion  reflect a push to
secure revenue amid financial turmoil and sluggish growth.  European nations are moving toward a common standard on
tax-data reporting in response to new requirements for doing
business with the U.S.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Sudden Stock Crashes Mostly Show Human Error, SEC’s Berman Says  Concern that American stock markets have become more
susceptible to split-second crashes due to computerization isn’t
supported by the data, a Securities and Exchange Commission
official said.  Most “mini-flash crashes,” a term sometimes applied when
an individual U.S. stock briefly surges or plunges for no
obvious reason, are the result of human errors, not broken
software, said Gregg Berman, head of the SEC’s Office of
Analytics and Research.  Scrutiny of market disruptions increased in the wake of
malfunctions including the flash crash of May 2010, when the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  fell almost 1,000 points in minutes
before rebounding. In September, the Senate Subcommittee on
Securities, Insurance and Investment held hearings on the impact
of computerized trading amid concern algorithmic and high-frequency strategies are contributing to investor uncertainty.  SEC staff found that swings in individual stocks are more
often caused by human mistakes such as “fat finger” trades --
when a person enters the wrong number of shares to trade or some
other typographical error -- or incorrectly entered limit
orders, Berman said. While the errors reflect sloppiness and
highlight a lack of checks, they can be fixed by better risk
management and oversight, he said.  Sudden stock swings have spurred fluctuations in the paper
value of some of America’s biggest companies.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Hong Kong Expands Benchmark Rate-Manipulation Probe to HSBC  Hong Kong ’s central bank has expanded an investigation into
possible misconduct linked to the city’s benchmark rates to  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and other lenders following crackdowns from the
U.S. to U.K.,  Japan  and Singapore.  The  Hong Kong Monetary Authority ’s probe, which started
with UBS AG in December and has since been widened to “a
number” of banks, is continuing, it said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. London-based HSBC, whose shares are listed
in Hong Kong, has been asked to “promptly implement” remedial
measures required by Singapore’s central bank last week
following a similar investigation in the city-state, HKMA said.  The review into the submission of data by banks for setting
the Hong Kong Interbank Offered Rate and other benchmarks comes
amid increased global scrutiny. Singapore last week censured 20
banks for attempts to rig its rates and asked them to set aside
as much as $9.6 billion pending steps to improve controls, while
Britain’s market regulator began looking into the  currency
market  after  Bloomberg News  reported that traders had
manipulated key rates.  The HKMA’s review has included “millions of communication
messages records” so far, according to yesterday’s statement,
which signaled that the probe may take a year because of the
number of documents. The regulator will also consider whether
any potential misconduct may have had a material impact on the
rate, it had said in December.  Adam Harper , a spokesman for HSBC in Hong Kong, declined to
comment on the HKMA statement.  For more, click here.  U.S. Bank Regulator Says Firms Taking More Risks Chasing Returns  As U.S. banks take more risks hunting higher returns,
regulators are keeping a close watch on the safety of new
strategies and products, according to an Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency report.  In the effort to maintain record profits, banks may take
excessive risks in the sluggish economy, also facing the chance
that an increase in the unusually low  interest rates  could make
them vulnerable to capital erosion, the OCC said in its twice-yearly report on industry hazards. It also noted growth in other
dangers to banks, such as from computer hackers and increasingly
sophisticated  money laundering .  “Large banks are grappling with the need for fundamental
changes to their business models as a result of weakening
revenue growth, including shifts in trading, securitization, and
consumer fee income,” according to the OCC’s Semiannual Risk
Perspective. “OCC supervisory staff will focus on strategic
business and new product planning to determine whether adequate
consideration of safe and sound business practices is evident.”  The agency is taking lessons from the banks’ mortgage-servicing faults during the 2008 credit crisis, according to the
report, and staff will look at high-volume, rapid-growth revenue
activities to find potential weaknesses.  As investors chase more yield, the agency has also seen
greater demand for high-yield products such as collateralized
loan obligations, and the OCC said the surge will produce
“greater quantities of weakly underwritten loans.”  Deloitte to Pay New York State $10 Million Penalty, Halt Service  Deloitte Financial Advisory Services LLP agreed to pay
$10 million to  New York  State regulators and halt consulting
services for state-regulated financial institutions for one
year.  Regulators found “misconduct, violations of law and lack
of autonomy” in Deloitte FAS’s consulting work with  Standard
Chartered Plc (STAN) , the state’s Department of Financial Services said
in a statement yesterday. Standard Chartered hired Deloitte FAS,
a unit of Deloitte LLP, in 2004 to review anti-money laundering
controls at the bank, according to the regulator.  “We are pleased that, as the agreement states, a thorough
investigation by the Department of Financial Services found no
evidence that Deloitte FAS knew of, or aided, abetted or
concealed any alleged violation by Standard Chartered Bank,”
Deloitte LLP said in a statement yesterday.  Courts  Belo Sued by Investor Over $1.5 Billion Gannett Takeover  Belo Corp. (BLC) , the TV station operator, was sued by an
investor seeking to block a $1.5 billion takeover by USA Today
publisher  Gannett Co. (GCI)  because the $13.75-a-share bid is too low.  The International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Local
363 pension fund sued Dallas-based Belo in Delaware Chancery
Court, saying company directors are obligated to get the best
price and agreed to an inadequate offer, according to filings
made public yesterday in Wilmington.  The fund asks a judge to stop the deal under its present
terms and to award unspecified legal fees and expenses.  Meghan Gavigan, a Belo spokeswoman with Sard Verbinnen &
Co., said Belo had no comment on the lawsuit.  Belo operates 20 TV stations, reaching more than 14 percent
of households in 15 major markets, the companies said in a June
13 joint statement. Gannett, based in McLean,  Virginia , owns 82
newspapers and 23 TV stations.  The case is IBEW Local 363 Pension Trust Fund v. Belo
Corp., CA8649, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  Former Systemax Unit President Indicted in Bribery Case  The former president of a technology sales unit of  Systemax
Inc. (SYX)  was indicted for a scheme to steer more than $230 million
in business to suppliers in exchange for bribes.  Carl Fiorentino, 56, took more than $7 million in bribes
from companies in Taiwan and  California  from January 2003 to
April 2011, the government alleged in a seven-count indictment
unsealed yesterday in federal court in Central Islip, New York.
Fiorentino used the money to pay for an $8 million home in Coral
Gables,  Florida , services of a hip hop music promotions company
and tennis lessons for his son, the U.S. alleged.  Fiorentino, who was president of Port Washington, New York-based Systemax’s TigerDirect unit, is charged with mail fraud,
 wire fraud , money laundering conspiracy and conspiracy to commit
mail and wire fraud. He faces a maximum sentence of 20 years in
prison for each charge, according to prosecutors.  Fiorentino was arrested in Coral Gables and was expected to
appear yesterday in a Florida federal court, prosecutors said.  The case is U.S. v. Fiorentino, 13-cr-000338, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Central Islip).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 