-- Basri Predicts Rupiah Gain With Boost in Fuel Prices
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g ,   Y u d i t h   H o   a n d   L a r s   K l e m m i n g
-- 2013-06-20T06:13:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/basri-predicts-rupiah-gain-with-boost-in-fuel-prices.html
Indonesia’s fuel-price increase this
month will strengthen the rupiah and the trade balance as oil
imports fall, while removing the incentive for smugglers to sell
subsidized products abroad, Finance Minister Chatib Basri said.  The nation will meet its budget assumption of the rupiah
averaging 9,600 per dollar this year, Basri said in an interview
at the  Finance Ministry  yesterday. The currency will have to be
about 4.6 percent stronger than the current level on average for
the rest of the year to meet the estimate.  “Once we adjust the fuel price, there will be a
significant amount of import decline, especially from oil,”
Basri, 47, said as he defended the need to push through a
planned increase that has sparked protests. “Once we improve
the trade balance, then the rupiah will be strengthening.”  Basri, who became finance chief last month, will oversee
Indonesia’s first price increase for subsidized fuel in five
years as President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono grapples with one of
 Asia ’s worst-performing currencies near the end of his second
term. The government estimates that energy subsidies would have
ballooned to $30 billion this year if left unchanged, eating up
funds that could instead be spent on benefits for the poor or
infrastructure projects.  While Indonesia’s currency forwards plunged today to the
biggest discount to the spot rate in 21 months after Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said the U.S. Federal Reserve is prepared to
begin phasing out its stimulus program, the rupiah’s decline
today has been among the smallest in Asia.  Past Experience  “Offshore prices are affected by sentiment from comments
from the Fed that they plan to reduce bond-buying,” said
Suriyanto Chang, head of treasury at PT Bank QNB Kesawan in
Jakarta. “Just as Basri said, past experience shows that after
raising fuel prices, the rupiah’s reaction is significantly
positive, so we expect the same to happen.”  The rupiah has averaged 9,723 per dollar so far in 2013 and
closed at 9,908 yesterday. The currency would need to trade at
an average of around 9,477 for the rest of the year to meet the
government’s budget estimate of 9,600.  The nation last increased fuel prices on May 24, 2008,
after which the rupiah gained 3 percent over the next 10 weeks.
 Indonesia  also raised prices twice in 2005, Basri said.  The fuel-price increase “is just a matter of
administrative work” and will happen by the end of this month,
said Basri, appointed by Yudhoyono to a reshuffled team of top
policy makers in  Southeast Asia ’s biggest economy.  Tomorrow Night  The government may announce an increase in subsidized fuel
prices tomorrow night and will make the new prices effective
immediately, Industry Minister Mohamad S. Hidayat said today.  The administration intends to raise subsidized gasoline
prices to 6,500 rupiah ($0.65) a liter and subsidized diesel to
5,500 rupiah, both from 4,500 rupiah, Basri said. That compares
with 9,800 rupiah a liter outside Indonesia, Basri said.  “The relatively high price disparity induced people to do
smuggling and because of that, the consumption kept rising,”
burdening the  trade balance , Basri said.  To mitigate the effect of higher fuel prices, more support
will be provided for the poor, including rice subsidies and
access to scholarships, the finance minister said. The
government allocated 27.9 trillion rupiah in compensation in the
revised 2013 budget approved by Parliament June 17.  Yudhoyono had set a compensation program for the poor as a
precondition for adjusting fuel costs. He put off raising fuel
prices after protests derailed a planned increase last year in a
country where riots spurred by soaring living costs helped oust
dictator Suharto in 1998. Protests have erupted across the
country in the past week.  Revised Projections  With the revised 2013 budget, the fiscal deficit will be
2.38 percent of gross domestic product, “which is quite
healthy,” Basri said. Without a reduction in fuel subsidies,
the shortfall could have reached 3.8 percent of GDP, he said.  Lawmakers also agreed to the government’s revised budget
assumption for economic growth of 6.3 percent this year from the
6.8 percent targeted previously. Inflation is forecast at 7.2
percent, spurred by higher fuel prices, compared with a previous
estimate of 4.9 percent.  Fuel subsidies would have risen to about 297 trillion
rupiah this year without a price increase, instead of the
current target of 200 trillion rupiah under the revised 2013
budget, Basri said June 18.  Indonesia recorded a trade deficit of $1.6 billion in April.
The gap could reach as much as $3 billion this year without a
fuel-price increase, Trade Minister  Gita Wirjawan  said on June 4.  Minister Reshuffle  Yudhoyono has asked Basri to ensure prudent fiscal policy.
Basri, who is also chairman of the Investment Coordinating Board,
succeeded  Agus Martowardojo , who moved to head the central bank.
Basri was special adviser to former Finance Minister  Sri Mulyani Indrawati  from 2006 to 2010, his profile on the investment
board’s  website  shows.  Bank Indonesia  unexpectedly raised its key  interest rate 
for the first time since 2011 last week to support the currency
and cool inflation expectations. The  reference rate  was
increased by a quarter of a percentage point to 6 percent. All
19 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  expected no change. The
central bank also raised its deposit facility rate, or Fasbi, by
a quarter of a percentage point to 4.25 percent.  Inflation may peak in the June-August period because of
higher subsidized fuel prices, Martowardojo said today. The
central bank will respond to inflation with a macro-prudential
policy mix, which may include interest-rate moves, he said.  Investor Confidence  The policy tightening and the fuel-price increase “are
probably what is required to cool the economy and return it to a
rate of growth more in line with what fundamentals would say is
feasible,”  Andrew Colquhoun , head of Asia-Pacific sovereigns at
 Fitch Ratings , said in an interview in  Singapore  yesterday.  Raising fuel prices could improve investor confidence in
Indonesia’s economy, after a record current-account shortfall in
2012 helped make the rupiah the worst performer after the
Japanese yen and Indian rupee in the past year among 11 Asian
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “It is very important to give a signal to investors,
especially in the financial markets, that they don’t need to
have a worry about the fuel-price adjustment because the
government will do it anyway,” said Basri, who has a doctorate
in economics and a masters in economic development from
 Australian National University , according to his  website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net ;
Lars Klemming in Singapore at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  