-- BC Partners to Buy Springer Science for $4.4 Billion
-- B y   V i l l e   H e i s k a n e n   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2013-06-19T14:23:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/bc-partners-to-buy-springer-science-for-4-4-billion.html
BC Partners  Ltd., a London-based
private-equity firm, agreed to buy German academic publisher
Springer Science & Business Media GmbH for 3.3 billion euros
($4.4 billion) from EQT Partners AB and the Government of
Singapore Investment Corp.  The deal follows months of discussions over Springer
Science’s future and means the publisher won’t be taken public,
contrary to what EQT said as recently as last week. EQT, a
buyout firm part-owned by  Sweden ’s Wallenberg family, and GIC
will remain minority investors, BC said today in a statement.  Springer Science, with more than 7,000 employees and sales
of 981 million euros in 2012, publishes 2,000 magazines and
7,000 books every year on subjects including science and
medicine. The sale marks the second-largest German deal and the
sixth-biggest private-equity transaction worldwide this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  BC plans to focus the business on areas such as  emerging
markets  and open-access publishing, it said. EQT hoped to
receive 3.5 billion euros for the company, then lowered its
asking price to 3.25 billion euros after BC Partners emerged as
the final bidder in an auction, people familiar with the matter
had said. EQT and GIC bought the Berlin-based academic publisher
in 2009.  BC Partners hired Barclays Plc, Credit Suisse Group AG,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co., Nomura Holdings
Inc. and UBS AG to help arrange financing for the transaction,
according to three people with knowledge of the matter. Rosanna
Konarzewski, a spokeswoman for BC Partners, declined to comment
on debt financing.  London-based Candover Investments Plc and another private-equity firm, Cinven Ltd., formed Springer Science in 2003 when
they bought Kluwer Academic Publishers and BertelsmannSpringer.  BC Partners was advised by Jefferies Group LLC, Credit
Suisse and Nomura and received legal advice from Freshfields
Bruckhaus Deringer LLP, according to a statement today. EQT
worked with Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan, according to people
familiar with the matter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ville Heiskanen in Helsinki at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  