-- Bear Market Collapse Scuttles $3.7 Billion IPO: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-06-19T21:22:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/bear-market-collapse-scuttles-3-7-billion-ipo-corporate-brazil.html
Brazil ’s  bear-market  collapse, the
worst among major global equity indexes, is starting to cool off
a record boom in initial public offerings.  Votorantim Cimentos SA, the Sao Paulo-based cement maker,
suspended its sale of as much as $3.7 billion of shares planned
for this week because of the market selloff, according to a
company statement published in newspaper  Valor Economico . The
deal was poised to be the world’s second-largest this year,
smaller only than Brazilian insurer BB Seguridade Participacoes
SA’s $5.7 billion sale in April.  The Ibovespa has plunged 24 percent from a Jan. 3 peak,
leaving it down the most this year among the 20 biggest equity
markets tracked by Bloomberg, as Brazil’s economic expansion
faltered and rising U.S. bond yields lured money away from
 emerging markets . Votorantim’s decision to scrap its deal
follows a spurt of six Brazilian IPOs since January worth $7.3
billion, more than triple the amount a year earlier and the most
for the start of a year since at least 2002. IPOs are down 4.2
percent globally in 2013, including a 31 percent drop in the
U.S.  “It’s a terrible time” to sell stock, Luiz Carvalho, a
managing partner at New York-based hedge fund Tree Capital, said
in a telephone interview. “The market conditions are different
now from what they were one, two months ago. For the deal to
work today, the price would have to be lower.”  Inflation Surge  Votorantim Cimentos, which is controlled by Votorantim
Participacoes SA, a conglomerate that produces everything from
steel to pulp, said it suspended the offering because of
“unfavorable market conditions.” The IPO has been postponed
until Sept. 11, according to the regulator’s website. Votorantim
planned to use the proceeds to fund expansion plans, improve
operations and increase working capital, according to a
prospectus on its website.  The Ibovespa sank into a bear market on June 11 as
 inflation  soared in  Latin America ’s biggest economy even as
growth sputtered.  Consumer prices jumped 6.5 percent in the 12 months through
May, reaching the upper end of the country’s target range and
prompting the central bank to raise benchmark  interest rates 
from a record-low 7.25 percent. The economy expanded 1.9 percent
in the first quarter, less than the 2.3 percent median forecast
in a Bloomberg survey of analysts, as President  Dilma Rousseff ’s
lending surge, tax cuts and electricity cost reductions failed
to stoke output.  World Cup  Analysts have cut Brazilian corporate earnings forecasts
faster than stocks have plunged, making equities more expensive.
Shares on the Ibovespa  traded  today at 11.6 times analysts’
earnings estimates for the next four quarters, up from 9.9 a
year ago.  Preparations for the 2014  World Cup  and 2016 Olympics,
which require combined infrastructure spending of about 60
billion reais, haven’t provided the lift to companies’ earnings
that some investors had anticipated, according to Ivan Kraiser,
head of equities at the asset management firm Legan
Administracao de Recursos in Sao Paulo.  “There was a huge expectation,” Kraiser said. “It was a
little exaggerated.”  Standard & Poor’s  cut the outlook on Brazil’s BBB credit
rating outlook to negative on June 6, citing sluggish growth,
weakening fiscal accounts and the government’s loss of
credibility with investors. More than 200,000 people
demonstrated in 12 cities throughout Brazil on June 17, venting
anger over everything from inflation to the quality of the
country’s hospitals and schools.  IPOs Rally  The Ibovespa selloff didn’t slow Brazil’s IPO market until
losses intensified in May. BB Seguridade and Smiles SA, the
frequent-flier unit of airline Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes
SA, both priced deals on April 25. Shares from five of this
year’s six IPOs have rallied since their debut, led by a 32
percent surge in technology company  Linx SA (LINX3)  and a 22 percent
jump in Smiles. BB Seguridade is up 2.5 percent.  Brazilian companies, needing capital to expand at home and
abroad, had tired of waiting for a better time to go public
after the Ibovespa underperformed the MSCI World Index in each
of the past three years, according to  Nick Robinson , the head of
Brazilian equities at Aberdeen Asset Management.  Selloff Anticipated  “A lot of these companies have been delaying and delaying
their IPOs, always waiting for better market conditions,”
Robinson, whose firm has about $15 billion of Latin American
equities under management, said in an interview in  New York 
before Votorantim canceled its deal. “Perhaps we just got to
the point when they thought, ’We want to get our IPO done.’”  BB Seguridade, a unit of state-run  Banco do Brasil SA , sped
up its sale plans because it was concerned the market would
deteriorate, according to Leonardo Mattedi, the insurer’s
investors relations director.  “We had this view that the scenario wouldn’t be favorable
for IPOs during all of 2013,” Mattedi said in a phone interview
from Brasilia.  Linx, a Sao Paulo-based software supplier,  sold  527.9
million reais of shares in February in part to avoid taking on
debt as policy makers raise borrowing costs, Chief Executive
Officer Alberto Menache said.  “There’s never an ideal time to do an IPO, but there are
always investors looking for a good company that’s selling
shares at a fair price,” Menache said in a telephone interview.  Azul Watching  David Neeleman ’s airline Azul Linhas Aereas Brasileiras SA
has also filed to go public while Itau Unibanco Holding SA’s
investment boutique Kinea Investimentos Ltda said it plans to
take two of its holdings public.  Officials Kinea declined to comment. Azul said in an e-mailed response to questions that it intends to continue with
plans to IPO, and is “following markets closely” for the best
time to sell shares.  Brazil’s IPO surge wasn’t replicated in the other so-called
BRIC countries, where benchmark stock indexes slumped at least
0.9 percent this year. Chinese securities regulators suspended
offerings in October to ease the market rout. Offerings have
declined 12 percent in  India . There’s been one deal in  Russia ,
matching the total from a year ago.  Brazilian companies are going to have to lower IPO prices
to revive the market after the Votorantim deal collapsed,
according to Rogerio Freitas, a partner at hedge fund Teorica
Investimentos in Rio de Janeiro.  A good asset will sell “in a poor macro environment at the
right price,” Freitas said in a phone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Denyse Godoy in  Sao Paulo  at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  