-- Berlusconi Loses Challenge Related to Milan Tax Fraud Conviction
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-06-19T17:33:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/berlusconi-loses-challenge-related-to-milan-tax-fraud-conviction.html
Former Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi lost a procedural challenge over a court’s failure to
grant him a delay to attend a Cabinet meeting in a case where he
was eventually convicted of tax fraud last year.  The court in Milan was correct in 2010 when it denied
Berlusconi, who was premier at the time, a trial delay that he
said was needed to allow him to oversee a Cabinet meeting,
 Italy ’s Constitutional Court said today in an e-mailed
statement. Berlusconi failed to provide reasons why the Cabinet
meeting was moved into conflict with his court appointment and
offer alternative dates, the Rome-based court said.  “It was up to the judicial authority to determine that it
wasn’t an absolute impediment” to Berlusconi’s attendance at
the trial, the court said in the statement.  The October conviction was upheld last month by an appeals
court and is the furthest advanced of three criminal trials
threatening to interrupt Berlusconi’s political career.
Berlusconi, a Senator, has denied wrongdoing in all of the cases
against him and said today the ruling won’t influence his
political responsibilities.  Berlusconi, 76, remains one of Italy’s most powerful
people, commanding loyalty from about a quarter of the country’s
electorate and overseeing a business empire spanning finance and
media. He is the head of the second-biggest party in Prime
Minister Enrico Letta’s parliamentary coalition and ranks 182nd
in the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index  with a $6.7 billion fortune.  “The Constitutional Court’s decision today, which goes
against common sense and the entire of the Court’s own
precedent, won’t have any influence on my personal commitment,
loyal and convinced, to support the government,” Berlusconi
said in an e-mailed statement.  Legal Battles  Berlusconi’s legal battles have won him backing from some
voters, who view him as the victim of a politicized judiciary. A
group of supporters called “ Silvio’s Army ” met yesterday in
Rome to protest the accusations against Berlusconi.  The tax-fraud conviction carried a four-year prison
sentence and five-year ban from public office when it was handed
down last year. It involves film-rights transactions and
Berlusconi’s  Mediaset SpA (MS)  television company. Berlusconi’s
lawyers are preparing a final appeal at the Supreme Court.  In Italy, sentences aren’t definitively enforced until all
appeals are exhausted. Leniency on an incarceration order is
often granted to offenders over the age of 70, meaning
Berlusconi may be spared jail time even if his conviction is
upheld by the final court.  In addition to the fraud case, the former premier is facing
a verdict June 24 in a case accusing him of paying for sex with
a minor and abusing the power of his office. He is appealing a
March conviction in a wiretapping trial, and Naples prosecutors
announced in February he was under investigation on suspicion of
corruption in parliament. Berlusconi has denied all the charges.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  