-- Bernanke Exit Hinted by Obama Means Tapering, Feldstein Says
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-06-19T18:29:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/bernanke-exit-signaled-by-obama-means-tapering-feldstein-says.html
President  Barack Obama  clearly
signaled this week that Federal Reserve chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
will be leaving the central bank when his term ends in January
and that looming departure means Bernanke will want to begin
tapering asset purchases this year, said Harvard University
economics professor  Martin Feldstein .  The Fed has been making $85 billion in monthly bond
purchases in an effort to spur job growth and galvanize faster
U.S. economic expansion. The policy making  Federal Open Market
Committee  met today in Washington, with four more FOMC meetings
scheduled before the end of the year.  “One of the implications of the fact that Ben is now very,
very likely to be leaving at the beginning of the year is that
he’s going to want to get the so-called exit strategy under
way,” Feldstein said on CNBC television before the FOMC
meeting. “He’s going to want to start the tapering before he
leaves so that he can say, ‘I did all these good things, and I
put us on an exit path.’”  Obama said Bernanke has “already stayed a lot longer than
he wanted or he was supposed to” in an interview with  Charlie
Rose  that was broadcast June 17 on PBS.  “The president more or less said the other day, on
television, ‘Your time is up, Mr. Bernanke,’” Feldstein said.
“I didn’t think that was a very nice gesture on the president’s
part.”  Bernanke’s Replacement  It’s “hard to say” who Bernanke’s replacement will be,
Feldstein said. A third of those surveyed expect he’ll be
succeeded by Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen , 66, according to
the latest poll of investors, analysts and traders on May 14.  “The president has ideas that he’s not sharing with us,
but he’s decided to get out there ahead of  Ben Bernanke  in terms
of declaring that Bernanke can go back to Princeton,” Feldstein
said. While Obama was “telling the world” that Bernanke will
leave, it’s unclear to what extent the Fed chairman had
discussed his leaving with the president, Feldstein said.  Feldstein, 73, is a former president of the National Bureau
of Economic Research and a member of the NBER committee that
declared the recession ended in June 2009. He formerly served as
chief economic adviser to President  Ronald Reagan .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe in Washinogton at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  