-- Bernanke Must Ensure Minimal Damage in Actions: Gordhan
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   G u y   J o h n s o n
-- 2013-06-19T14:58:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/bernanke-must-ensure-minimal-damage-in-actions-gordhan.html
The U.S. Federal Reserve must ensure
“minimal damage” to  emerging markets  from plans to reduce bond
purchases, South African Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said.  Fed Chairman  Ben Bernanke , who will speak at a press
conference after a two-day policy meeting today, must
communicate his intentions carefully, Gordhan said in an
interview with Bloomberg TV in Johannesburg today.  Bernanke’s comments on May 22 that the Fed may slow the
pace of its bond purchases roiled financial markets as
currencies plummeted. The South African rand has slumped 9.7
percent against the dollar since the beginning of May, dropping
to a four-year low of 10.3692 to the dollar on June 11.  The Fed’s action may have  “significant impacts on the
rest of the world” and Bernanke should “be aware of the
spillover effects, communicate more carefully what exactly is
your intention and, thirdly, manage the tapering off process in
a way that causes minimal damage to our economies at the end of
the day,” Gordhan said.  The rand gained 0.5 percent against the dollar to 9.9463 as
of 4:07 p.m. in Johannesburg.  South Africa ’s government is concerned about the effect of
capital outflows as investors reduce their holdings in riskier,
emerging-market assets in favor of dollar assets, Gordhan said.  Outflow Concerns  “It’s outflows that we are concerned about now and the
sudden depreciation of currencies, the sudden drop in the
commodity markets, all of which creates unnecessary volatility
and unwelcome uncertainty,” he said.  The rand is the most likely currency to weaken against the
dollar as a tapering off of the Fed’s quantitative easing
becomes inevitable,  Geoffrey Yu , a senior currency strategist at
UBS AG, said in an interview with Bloomberg TV in  London  today.  “South Africa is most at risk,” Yu said, while the
Turkish lira and the Brazilian real are other currencies that
could suffer. “You’ve seen the volatility already. Even if they
delay tapering for a few months or so, it’s only putting off the
inevitable. A lot of investors may say, ’I want to get out while
I still can’.”  Labor unrest in the  mining industry  is also undermining the
economic outlook in South Africa. Strikes that shut platinum and
gold mines last year shaved 0.5 percentage point off gross
domestic product and a further 0.3 percentage point off this
year’s output, according to the National Treasury.  ‘New Dynamics’  “We need to understand that there are new dynamics in the
 labor movement , there are different organized elements that have
emerged,” Gordhan said. “The responsibility as government is
to ensure that, where it is necessary, the labor relations
system is adapted.” The government must “normalize the labor
relations environment and turn the industry back to organized
collective bargaining.”  The Association of Mineworkers & Construction Union has
overtaken the  National Union of Mineworkers  as the biggest labor
group in South Africa’s platinum industry and is demanding
separate talks on wages. The NUM is in an affiliate of the
Congress of South African Trade Unions, which is a political
ally of the ruling  African National Congress .  South Africa has the world’s biggest known reserves of
platinum and chrome and also mines for gold, coal and diamonds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
 Guy Johnson  in London at 
 gjohnson87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  