-- Bernanke’s Forward Guidance Is Transparent as Mud
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2013-06-19T23:16:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/bernanke-s-forward-guidance-is-transparent-as-mud.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  seemed a little nervous at his June 19 news conference.
His recent comments about the future course of monetary policy
had rattled investors and driven bond yields up, tightening
financial conditions in a way the Fed didn’t want. Formally
unperturbed, Bernanke said he was leaving policy unchanged --
but in trying, yet again, to elucidate the Fed’s thinking, he
tacitly admitted that something had gone wrong.  Fortunately, the policy itself, I think, is basically good
-- but that’s despite, not because of, the ever-evolving
formulas used to explain it.  Growth in the U.S. is still sluggish, unemployment is still
high and inflation is (a) running well below the Fed’s target
and (b) falling. That suffices to justify  interest rates  at zero
until further notice, together with additional large-scale asset
purchases -- which is what the Fed intends.  There are dangers in this policy, to be sure. Quantitative
easing is an experiment and involves risks. Bernanke summed
these up drily in a recent  speech : There’s the risk that long-term interest rates will remain low (leading investors to
recklessly “reach for yield”) and the risk that they won’t
(imposing losses on investors when  rates  rise and bond prices
fall). The point is, in current circumstances, every course
involves risk. Tightening monetary policy prematurely, as
Bernanke has often explained, courts the greatest danger -- that
of bringing a hesitant recovery to a stop. On a balance of
risks, aggressive monetary stimulus still makes sense.  Credibility Gap  Yet the past few weeks showed that the Fed has a serious
credibility problem. The central bank’s formal statement this
week failed to acknowledge this -- it was essentially a  reprint 
of the previous one -- but Bernanke’s news conference showed
that the Fed is concerned.  Bernanke triggered the recent rise in long-term bond yields
when he said last month that “in the next few meetings, we could
take a step down in our pace of purchases.” You could argue that
he was merely stating the obvious, but the markets took it as
important new information. In itself, that needn’t have been
troubling. The problem for the Fed is that investors didn’t
interpret it as good news about the economy but as bad news
about the Fed’s reliability.  As the economy strengthens, you’d expect long-term interest
rates to rise. But the recent rise in bond yields coincided with
unexciting jobs data and very low inflation -- inconsistent with
the “strong economy” story. The implication is that investors
thought the Fed was bringing forward its plans not just to taper
QE but also, crucially, to start raising short-term interest
rates.  Bernanke tried to address this confusion this week. He
emphasized for the umpteenth time that the decision on tapering
QE is separate from the decision on starting to raise short-term
rates. All being well, tapering would probably start later this
year, he said, with asset purchases continuing in 2014 until
unemployment falls to 7 percent.  Interest rates won’t rise, the Fed has previously said,
until unemployment has fallen to 6.5 percent. And, Bernanke
added with fresh emphasis, perhaps not even then: These numbers
are “thresholds” not “triggers.” So the Fed will merely start
thinking about raising interest rates once unemployment falls to
6.5 percent, and might well choose not to act at that point. Oh,
and it’s always possible, the chairman told another questioner,
that the  unemployment  threshold for interest rates (and
presumably therefore also for QE) will be revised -- more likely
down than up.  Is that now clear?  Sudden Stop  In one way, the intention behind Bernanke’s latest
elaborations is simple. He means to assure the markets that
stimulus won’t be withdrawn abruptly or too soon. QE will be
tapered as the labor market strengthens, but not stopped all of
a sudden. Moreover, Bernanke repeats, a slower rate of QE is
still stimulus -- as is no QE at all, for that matter, so long
as the Fed hangs on to its existing stock of assets. Raising
short-term interest rates lies even further in the future.
Perhaps that message, Bernanke’s main point, got through: The
Fed isn’t about to apply the brakes.  But if you ask under precisely what circumstances the
stimulus will eventually start to be withdrawn -- which is what
investors want to know, and is the message Bernanke keeps saying
he means to impart with his commitment to “forward guidance” and
transparency -- the new refinements really don’t help.  I sympathize. There are two underlying problems. One is the
complexity of the situation the Fed needs to address. Consider
just the labor market. You can measure its condition in many
ways, and different indicators (narrow unemployment, broad
unemployment, vacancies, hours worked, quits, hirings and so
forth) will often give different readings. Central bankers don’t
want to be tied to a simple formula when there are so many
moving parts -- they want to retain some discretion.  Second, the Fed has many policy makers, not just one, and
they often disagree. Forward guidance has to be vague enough to
accommodate not just the complexity of future decisions in
unknown circumstances but also the range of opinions on the
 Federal Open Market Committee . That vagueness, in turn, allows
for bond-market glitches like the one of the past few weeks, as
investors ask, “What on earth did the Fed mean by that?”  To repeat, the policy is right, and that’s the main thing.
But Bernanke’s commitment to transparency and forward guidance
has made his job harder. If he wants discretion under fire and
the luxury of vigorous internal dissent, he can’t expect forward
guidance to work as he envisaged. That’s why we’ll be debating
what he really meant until he gives his next speech -- and that,
if you’re wondering, is a threshold not a trigger.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  clive.crook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 