-- Bernanke Faith in Housing Seen in Mortgage Bonds: Credit Markets
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-06-20T16:35:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/bernanke-faith-in-housing-seen-in-mortgage-bonds-credit-markets.html
Mortgage rates  in the U.S., after
increasing at the fastest pace in a decade, are poised to rise
even further with Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
saying the central bank is ready to slow its purchases of
Treasuries and bonds backed by housing loans.  Yields on  Fannie Mae ’s 3.5 percent, 30-year securities have
soared 0.38 percentage point in the past two days to a 19-month
high of 3.1 percent. The price tumbled 1.3 cents yesterday, the
most since 2010, to 102 cents on the dollar, before falling to
101.6 cents as of 12 p.m. in  New York . The  average rate  on new
loans packaged into such bonds rose last week to 3.98 percent,
the sixth straight increase, from 3.35 percent at the start of
May, Freddie Mac surveys show.  Bernanke said at a news conference in  Washington  yesterday
that the rise in  mortgage rates  hasn’t been “so dramatic” as
he suggested the housing market may be strong enough to
withstand higher borrowing costs. Investors sold bonds that
guide home-loan rates as they focused on his expectation that
the Fed’s $85 billion in monthly debt  buying  will slow later
this year and end around the middle of 2014.  The tone of Bernanke’s comments was “very assuring and
soothing, but that’s like a mother telling her baby that she
will be leaving in a very gentle voice,” said Tae Park, a  money
manager  in New York at Societe Generale SA who focuses on
mortgage bonds. “The baby will still have a fit.”  Quantitative Easing  The Fed chairman also said the central bank’s  holdings ,
including $1.2 trillion of housing debt, should continue to
depress yields. Policy makers don’t expect to sell mortgage
bonds soon and any changes in their purchasing plans will depend
on  economic conditions , he said.  Wells Fargo & Co ., the largest U.S.  mortgage  lender, is
offering 30-year fixed-rate loans at 4.5 percent, according to
its  website , up from 4.13 percent on June 18 and 3.88 percent on
May 22, when comments by Bernanke to lawmakers and the release
of the minutes of the last Fed meeting caused bonds to plummet.
 Freddie Mac ’s survey, which is lagging behind the bond slump
because it reflects originator responses through yesterday,
showed average rates falling to 3.93 percent this week.  Following a five-year slump, its worst since the Great
Depression, housing began to recover last year, fueled in part
by mortgage rates that reached a record low 3.31 percent in
November after the Fed  started  its third round of debt buying
known as quantitative easing.  Housing Recovery  Asked by a reporter whether rates exceeding 4 percent would
derail the rebound, Bernanke said that “one important
difference now is that people are more optimistic about
housing” and surveys show they expect prices to climb further.  “And that, you know, compensates to some extent for a
slightly higher mortgage rate,” he said.  Home prices  in 20 metropolitan areas  soared  10.9 percent in
the 12 months through March, the biggest gain in seven years, as
residential real estate is also bolstered by an influx of
institutional buyers, limited supply and an improving job
market, according to S&P/Case-Shiller index data released May
28.  Bernanke was too “dismissive” of the impact of higher
mortgage rates, Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross ,
manager of the world’s biggest mutual fund, said today in a
Bloomberg Radio interview with  Tom Keene  and  Michael McKee .
Increases since September have boosted the monthly payments on a
typical new home by about 20 percent, he said.  ‘Not Reflective’  His view is “not reflective of what may lie ahead in terms
of housing prices and the real economy,” Gross said.  While Fed officials have been a “little puzzled” by the
speed of increases in  interest rates  relative to inflation
expectations, the housing market could perform well with higher
borrowing costs, Bernanke also said yesterday.  “If interest rates go up for the right reasons -- that is,
both optimism about the economy and an accurate assessment of
monetary policy, that’s -- that’s a good thing,” he said.
“That’s not a bad thing.”  Economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast the U.S. will
grow 2.7 percent in 2014, up from an estimated 1.9 percent this
year. The Conference Board’s  index  of  consumer confidence  rose
to 76.2 in May, the highest since February 2008, according to
data from the New York-based private research group.  Unwind Stimulus  Bernanke’s comments on housing were among the most
important to emerge from the news conference, said  Scott Buchta ,
head of fixed-income strategy at New York-based brokerage Brean
Capital LLC.  “He does not appear to be alarmed about the sharp rise in
rates, nor is he saying anything to force the opposite,” Buchta
said. “The Fed probably can live with mortgage rates above 4
percent so long as the economy shows continued growth.”  When the central bank eventually decides to unwind its
record stimulus, most members of the  Federal Open Market
Committee  no longer will want to sell holdings of agency
mortgage bonds, Bernanke said.  “A strong majority now expects the committee will not sell
agency backed mortgage-backed securities during the process of
normalizing monetary policy, although in the longer run, limited
sales could be used to reduce or eliminate residual MBS
holdings,” he said.  Default Swaps  A confirmation of that shift from a 2011 plan should help
the debt outperform Treasuries, Deutsche Bank AG’s Steven Abrahams said yesterday in a note to clients before the Fed
news. The mortgage-bond strategist’s expectation was for the
central bank to start tapering its purchases in September, and
then drop them by a third every three months before wrapping up
the buying in March.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate bonds from default in the U.S. rose. The Markit CDX
North American Investment Grade Index, which investors use to
hedge against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness,
increased 4.6 basis point to a mid-price of 90.3 basis points as
of 12:27 p.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg.  The index typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, increased 2.95 basis points to 19.3 basis
points as of 12:27 p.m. in New York. The gauge widens when
investors seek the perceived safety of  government securities  and
narrows when they favor assets such as company debentures.  Bonds of Chevron Corp. are the most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today, accounting
for 3.3 percent of the volume of dealer trades of $1 million or
more as of 12:26 p.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  The  Bloomberg Global Investment Grade Corporate Bond Index (BCOR) 
has gained 0.27 percent this month, paring the decline for the
year to 1.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  