-- Bernanke Says Most on FOMC Don’t Expect Sales of Agency Debt
-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-06-19T20:41:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/bernanke-says-most-on-fomc-don-t-expect-sales-of-agency-debt-1-.html
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said most members of the Federal Open Market Committee
don’t expect sales of the Fed’s holdings of mortgage-backed
securities when it begins to exit record monetary stimulus.  “A strong majority now expects that the committee will not
sell agency mortgage-backed securities during the process of
normalizing monetary policy, although in the longer run, limited
sales could be used to reduce or eliminate residual MBS
holdings,” Bernanke said today at a press conference in
 Washington .  The U.S. central bank has expanded its balance sheet to
 $3.41 trillion  to foster a speedier economic recovery and today
affirmed its plan to keep buying $40 billion in mortgage bonds
and $45 billion in Treasuries every month. Policy makers have
been reviewing how they could begin to normalize the size and
structure of those holdings as “part of prudent planning,”
Bernanke said.  “Given the outlook and the committee’s policy guidance,
these matters are unlikely to be relevant to actual policy for
quite a while,” he said. “The broad principles set out in June
2011 remain applicable” and “participants continue to think
that in the long run the Federal Reserve’s portfolio should
consist predominantly of  Treasury (USGG10YR)  securities.”  Exit Strategy  Under the June 2011 plan, the Fed would cease reinvesting
some or all principal payments from its securities, revise its
interest-rate outlook, raise the federal funds rate and then
start selling housing debt to eliminate it from the central
bank’s portfolio in three to five years.  Bernanke said on Feb. 27 that the Fed may choose to hold
the bonds on its balance sheet to maturity as it considers its
strategy for an exit from record easing.  After a two-day meeting today in Washington, the policy-setting FOMC said in a statement that the housing sector has
“strengthened further.” In his press conference following the
gathering, the Fed chairman added that officials are closely
monitoring the impact of their purchases on the mortgage-backed
securities market.  “Our assessment is that market is still working quite well
and that our purchases are not disrupting the normal price
discovery and liquidity functions of that market,” he said.
“If the market was really breaking down in some way, that would
be a factor that we’d have to take into account” as the Fed
evaluates its bond-buying program, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aki Ito in San Francisco at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  