-- Billionaire Mori Says Tokyo Real Estate Best Abenomics Bet
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 2013-06-19T07:57:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/billionaire-mori-says-tokyo-real-estate-is-best-abenomics-bet.html
Japanese billionaire Akira Mori said
developing energy-saving buildings in central  Tokyo  is the best
way to benefit from Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s policies such as
boosting the city’s competitiveness.  Mori Trust Co. may seek to acquire more land after it
accumulated about 10,000 tsubo (33,000 square meters or 355,210
square feet) of space in the area, depending on how well Abe’s
growth plan is implemented, said Mori, the owner of the nation’s
most profitable closely held developer. Property prices in
central Tokyo will probably increase as demand for buildings
that are energy efficient and have disaster-prevention systems
remain strong, he said.  The billionaire revealed plans in November to invest in
Tokyo property for the first time since he declared the end of
the real estate boom in 2008. Population in the capital, where
one in 10 Japanese live, is growing as an unprecedented monetary
easing by the  Bank of Japan  and increased  government spending 
under Abe’s leadership bolster  consumer confidence .  “With  Japan ’s aging population, we will find more demand
returning to central Tokyo,” said Mori, 76, in an interview in
the city on June 17. “Whether Abenomics will succeed will
depend on the growth strategy. If Abe’s growth strategy is going
well, we may consider buying more.”  Luring Capital  Mori Trust manages 89 buildings in Japan, including the
Tokyo Shiodome Building in a commercial district near Tokyo Bay,
and operated about 30 hotels as of March 31, according to the
company’s website. The developer made 19.2 billion yen ($200
million) of profit for the year ended March 31, more than 14.4
billion yen of net income generated by Mori Building Co., which
was run by Mori’s older brother, Minoru Mori, who died last year.  Abe has promised to loosen business regulations and
increase government support as part of the “third arrow” of
his three-pronged strategy to end deflation, following fiscal
and monetary stimulus.  His plan includes creating incentives to attract foreign
investments and boosting the competitiveness of major cities in
Japan, according to the  website  of the prime minister’s office.
The government may also consider relaxing development rules for
floor ratio in certain zones to match the needs for office
buildings and residential space in metropolitan areas, it said.  “Tokyo’s attraction as an international city is very
high,” said Mori.  The Topix Real Estate Index, which tracks 43 property
companies, has returned 39 percent in the past six months. Abe
took power in December, pledging to revive the world’s third-largest economy. The index gained 0.9 percent today.  ‘Naturally Benefit’  Japan’s economy grew at an annualized 4.1 percent in the
first three months of this year, the fastest expansion in a year,
a government report showed on June 10. The report came two
months after the BOJ unveiled a plan to target a 2 percent
inflation rate in two years.  “The inflation target will naturally benefit real
estate,” said Mori. “As the economy improves, Tokyo, with
clean water and air, will gradually stand out as an attractive
place to invest, luring foreign capital.”  Still, a recovery in prices in the suburbs will be unlikely
because of the shift in population to Tokyo, Mori said.  “Real estate is no longer about holding it and hoping for
the value to go up,” Mori said. “It’s about how to seek value
by developing a property that is best suitable for that space.
Prices can’t be rising in places where there are no people.”  Tokyo’s population has increased 6 percent to 13.1 million
in the past decade, while the number of households has risen 17
percent to about 6.6 million, according to the Tokyo
Metropolitan Government.  Recent data on the country’s property market is already
showing signs of a recovery. The number of sites where values
increased rose to 80 out of 150 locations as of April 1, from 51
sites three months earlier, according to government  data  that
tracks highly utilized sites on May 29. It was the first time
since 2007, before the global financial crisis, when more than
half of the places recorded increases.  “For real estate, you can get as big as you want by
borrowing more,” said Mori. “But we have to choose the timing
as to when we want to expand and when we want to stay put.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  