-- Biosev Selling Biomass Power From Rio Brilhante Sugar-Cane Mill
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2013-06-19T22:11:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/biosev-selling-biomass-power-from-rio-brilhante-sugar-cane-mill.html
Biosev SA (BSEV3) ,  Brazil ’s second-biggest
sugar-cane processor, is selling electricity from a 77.8-megawatt biomass plant in the country’s center-west state of
Mato Grosso do Sul as low prices prompt it to pull back from the
energy market.  The 163 million-real ($73 million) Passa Tempo project at
the company’s Rio Brilhante mill runs on cane residue, Sao
Paulo-based Biosev said today in a statement. The plant began
selling power May 24 to large energy consumers and was
inaugurated today. It won contracts in a 2011 government-organized auction to deliver electricity to distributors for 102
reais a megawatt-hour, starting in March.  Biosev won’t sign any more contracts to sell power from new
biomass plants in auctions unless the rates go up, Chief
Executive Officer Christophe Akli said in an interview today. No
biomass developers won contracts in a December auction after the
government set a maximum price of 112 reais.  “The price in the last auction didn’t justify
investments,” Akli said. “A project won’t be viable unless we
see a price between 150 and 200 reais.”  The next power auction is set for August. In Brazil’s power
auctions, regulators set a ceiling rate and developers bid down
the amount at which they are willing to sell power. The lowest
bids win contracts.  Transmission Line  The Passa Tempo project has three turbines and a 76-kilometer (47-mile) transmission line, according to the
statement.  As much as 80 percent of the project was financed by Fundo
Constitucional de Financiamento do Centro-Oeste, a government
development fund, according to Kleber Wagner Froes, relations
manager for  Banco do Brasil SA (BBAS3) , the state-controlled lender that
disbursed the loan. The 8.5 percent loan will be paid back
within 12 years, he said in an interview.  Biosev has 12 cogeneration plants online with 540 megawatts
of total capacity. Nine of them sell power to the grid, and the
company could double the amount of energy it exports to the grid
by expanding its existing biomass plants, Akli said.  Raizen Energia SA is the world’s biggest crusher of sugar
cane.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in Sao Paulo at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  