-- Boeing Told to Repay After Charging $2,286 for $10 Part
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-06-19T15:30:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/boeing-told-to-repay-after-charging-2-286-for-10-part.html
The Pentagon’s purchasing agency
says  Boeing Co. (BA)  must refund $13.7 million in excessive prices
charged on spare parts, including a $10 device for which the
defense contractor charged $2,286 apiece.  The Defense Logistics Agency “is seeking a refund from
Boeing,” spokeswoman Michelle McCaskill said in an e-mailed
statement. “The refund will be for the full $13.7 million
identified” and will be requested by July 31, she said.  The agency overpaid about $1.3 million for 573 of the
aluminum “bearing sleeves” used on an aircraft’s main landing-gear door that should have cost $10 each, the Pentagon’s
inspector general said in an audit labeled “For Official Use
Only.”  Wasteful spending resulted from agency personnel failing to
negotiate good deals or to perform adequate oversight, and from
Boeing’s failure to pass on savings it won from subcontractors,
according to the complete audit report.  A summary  of the
findings was reported by Bloomberg News on June 7.  Boeing “has been working with the Defense Logistics
Agency” and the inspector general “throughout the audit
process,” Ellen Buhr, a spokeswoman for Boeing’s Global
Services and Support unit, said in an e-mailed statement. “We
are working with DLA to review the official report and to
understand the issues identified.”  Second Time  The audit marks the second time in two years that the
inspector general has cited excessive parts pricing by Chicago-based Boeing, the Pentagon’s second-biggest contractor after
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  A May 2011 inspector general’s audit of
two Boeing contracts for an Army depot in Corpus Christi,  Texas ,
found about $13 million in overcharges on $23 million in orders.  The Pentagon has recovered $2.67 million in that case,
according to Bridget Serchak, a spokeswoman for the inspector
general’s office. The Defense Contract Audit Agency is reviewing
the contract to see if more refunds are in order, another
spokeswoman, Army Lieutenant Colonel Elizabeth Robbins, said in
an e-mailed statement.  In the more recent audit, the inspector general took what
it described as a “nonstatistical sample” of 60 spare parts on
2,659 delivery orders valued at about $81.1 million and found
issues involving prices for parts on 1,469 orders valued at
$27.2 million.  The sample was part of almost 3,400 spare parts valued at
about $142 million that the agency had purchased.  Aircraft Parts  The excessive prices were found on a sample of parts
requested under a 2009 “basic ordering agreement” for
components and assemblies used on B-1B and B-52 bombers, E-3
surveillance aircraft, KC-135 tankers, Minuteman nuclear
missiles and AC-130U gunships.  Boeing overcharged the Defense Logistics Agency’s aviation
unit the $13.7 million on 1,469 delivery orders after government
personnel failed to negotiate “fair and reasonable prices,”
according to the inspector general’s audit.  “If prices are not corrected, DLA Aviation will continue
to overpay on future sole-source spare parts procured from
Boeing,” it said.  Boeing “did not maintain complete cost and pricing data
for 20 delivery orders valued at $3.4 million” because of
inadequate agency oversight, the inspector general found. The
company issued internal guidance in December emphasizing the
need to maintain adequate documentation, it said.  In addition, inspectors found cases in which Boeing failed
to pass on savings it obtained.  Negotiating Prices  “Boeing either negotiated for lower prices from its
suppliers or obtained spare parts at lower prices from different
suppliers,” the audit found. The company “is not required to
notify” the agency “when the subcontractor changes its prices,
and Boeing did not pass on any cost savings.”  In one example cited, Boeing in February 2008 cited a price
of $8,474 each for a “control surface part kit” that attaches
to an aircraft’s left elevator.  Auditors obtained Boeing purchase orders indicating it paid
about $4,080 for the kit, “resulting in an overpayment of
approximately” $4,394 per kit -- or about $1.2 million for 273
of them.  Boeing charged the defense agency $17,628 apiece for a
“channel” engine structural support on the AC-130U gunship
that company documents showed cost about $1,354 each, or an
overpayment of more than $16,000, according to the audit.  The logistics agency overpaid about $22,600 for two metal
tube assemblies that cover aircraft engine struts. The Defense
Logistics Agency accepted as “fair and reasonable” Boeing’s
proposed price of $12,467 each.  “Based on our review of Boeing’s purchase order,” the
agency “should have paid a unit price of approximately
$1,167,” according to the audit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  