-- BofA Appoints JPMorgan’s Zakkour Co-Head of Global TMT Banking
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2013-06-19T17:11:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/bofa-appoints-jpmorgan-s-zakkour-co-head-of-global-tmt-banking.html
Bank of America Corp.  hired Anwar Zakkour from  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  as co-head of global
telecommunications, media and technology  investment banking ,
according to a memo obtained by Bloomberg.  Zakkour will remain based in  New York , reporting to global
head of investment banking Christian Meissner, according to the
memo, whose contents were confirmed by a Bank of America
spokesman. His co-head will be Chet Bozdog, currently head of
global technology investment banking.  Zakkour, recently vice chairman of investment banking,
follows top bankers such as Jim Woolery in leaving JPMorgan this
year. Bank of America trails JPMorgan and Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. in advising on M&A globally this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  A spokesman at JPMorgan declined to comment. The firm and
Bank of America are the largest U.S. banks by assets.  Zakkour joined JPMorgan in 2005 and later advanced to
global head of telecommunications, media and technology M&A
before becoming vice chairman in 2011. He recently advised
MetroPCS Communications Inc. on its merger with Deutsche Telekom
AG’s  T-Mobile USA , after earlier working on AT&T Inc.’s failed
$39 billion takeover of T-Mobile USA.  Zakkour was part of the team that advised General Electric
Co. on its two-stage sale of  NBC Universal  to Comcast Corp.
Comcast first bought a 51 percent stake in the media company in
2011 and this year purchased the rest. His other significant
deals include the restructuring and the merger that created
Sirius XM Radio Inc. and News Corp.’s acquisition of Dow Jones &
Co. in 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  