-- Brainsway Agrees on Neurological Device U.S. Marketing
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2013-06-19T13:37:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/brainsway-agrees-on-neurological-device-u-s-marketing.html
Brainsway Ltd. (BRIN) , the developer of a
magnetic device for treating neurological conditions, said a
U.S. company will help the Israeli manufacturer market the
product in that country.  The undisclosed partner will be allowed to approach
potential customers of the Deep TMS system as specified by
Brainsway in the agreement, the Jerusalem-based manufacturer
said today in a Tel Aviv Stock Exchange  filing . Brainsway will
continue to market the device to other U.S. customers directly
and already has “some direct-lease agreements,” Chief
Executive Officer Uzi Sofer said.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  and regulator  Health
Canada  approved Deep TMS in January for use on patients who fail
to respond to or can’t tolerate antidepressants. Sofer said in
an interview at the time that a marketing accord was planned in
the first quarter, possibly including a “large” upfront
payment. Brainsway didn’t outline financial terms today.  The marketing agreement “is a part of our wider effort to
focus on expanding our activities in the U.S.,” Sofer said in a
telephone interview. “We will simultaneously continue with our
direct sales to U.S. customers.”  The partner will work to lease about 200 devices over as
many as three years for use in the U.S., Brainsway said. Sofer
declined to specify any combined targets for his company and the
U.S. marketer, why the agreement isn’t nationwide or whether
Brainsway is in talks with other potential partners.  Stock Rises  Brainsway  rose  as much as 7.1 percent to 59.96 shekels, the
biggest intraday gain since May 1, and was trading up 2.7
percent at 4:30 p.m. in Tel Aviv, valuing the company at 732
million shekels ($204 million). The stock, which has fallen
about 20 percent from its record high of 71.80 shekels on Feb.
10, has still more than doubled since the beginning of 2013.  The  Deep TMS System  uses a coil placed against the
patient’s head to apply brief magnetic pulses to the brain, a
process known as transcranial magnetic stimulation. Patients are
treated five times a week for four weeks, with each session
lasting about 20 minutes.  The company is counting on the technology’s appeal to
psychiatrists and patients as a treatment for depression that
eliminates the need for surgery or pharmaceuticals that
typically must be taken for life.  The device received European Union product-safety clearance
in late May for treating Alzheimer’s disease and autism as well
as for use by people quitting cigarette smoking.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in  Tel Aviv  at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net  