-- Brainard Says U.S.-China Talks to Assess China Growth Challenges
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2013-06-19T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/brainard-says-u-s-china-talks-to-assess-china-growth-challenges.html
Talks between the U.S. and  China 
next month will assess shifting fortunes of the world’s two
largest economies, as America emerges from a slump and Asia’s
main engine of growth confronts fresh challenges, the U.S.
Treasury Department’s top international official said.  “Our economy has once again shown its resilience” and
policy makers showed an “ability to come back and to put in
place decisive action and to correct a lot of the excesses that
went into the crisis,”  Lael Brainard , the undersecretary for
international affairs, said in an interview airing this weekend
on Bloomberg Television’s “Conversations With  Judy Woodruff .”  “China, on the other hand, is going to be struggling I
think a little bit in the years ahead,” she said yesterday.
“Their  labor force  is set to decline very rapidly, and they’ve
got some excesses built up in their credit markets that they’re
going to have to work through.”  Brainard’s comments reflect growing optimism among U.S.
officials that the economy is on a path to sustainable growth
after the longest recession since the Great Depression. The
 unemployment rate , which reached 10 percent in October 2009, was
7.6 percent last month. The  World Bank  last week raised its
forecast for U.S. growth this year and lowered China’s outlook.  “Four years ago, you’ll remember, there were questions
about the American financial system and the American growth
model and China looked really unstoppable,” she said. “Today,
I think that picture has changed a great deal.”  ‘Challenges’  The U.S. “will focus on a set of challenges that China’s
grappling with on their economy” when the U.S. hosts the
Strategic and Economic Dialogue with China in Washington during
the week of July 8-12, the first one under China’s new
leadership.  China’s leaders are trying to shore up growth less than
three months into their tenure, after an expansion in the first
quarter unexpectedly slowed. Chinese growth will hold at 7.8
percent this year, maintaining the slowest expansion since 1999,
according to the median forecast of 53 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Exchange rates will still be on the agenda even as the
currency has appreciated since President  Barack Obama  took
office in 2009, Brainard said.  Even though China’s trade surplus has narrowed as a share
of gross domestic product, “I’m not satisfied. We’re going to
keep working with China,” she said. “It’s part of China’s
broader strategy to start growing based on their own consumer
rather than the U.S. consumer.”  Abe’s Plan  In the case of  Japan , the administration will be focused on
the country’s “three-arrow” strategy, Brainard said.  The plan laid out by Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
involves a policy of monetary easing;  government spending  on
reconstruction and infrastructure; and structural reforms
including tax relief, freer trade and more flexible markets.  “What is most important for the  United States  is that
Japan pursues a growth strategy that operates through domestic
demand in Japan,” she said.  Although the  U.S. economy  is showing sustained momentum and
there are reasons to be “very optimistic,” the recovery has
taken some time, she said.  “The president has been navigating a very careful path
making sure that the fiscal support for the private sector is
there until the private sector is strong enough to really take
forward a very robust recovery,” Brainard said.  Europe’s Problems  European officials still have several steps to take to
boost growth and lift demand back to pre-crisis levels, Brainard
said.  “They need to go that final step of cleaning up their bank
balance sheets and coming together on a common framework so that
their banks can lend to small businesses again,” she said.
“There is no room for complacency in  Europe .”  The  International Monetary Fund , which is co-financing four
of five bailouts in the euro region, has also proven valuable
for the U.S., the largest member of the Washington-based lender,
Brainard said.  To preserve the U.S. veto power at the 188-country IMF, the
administration included in its 2014 budget proposal a request to
boost the U.S. share, or quota, at the institution to make good
on a 2010 international agreement boosting IMF resources. The
proposed measure would shift about $63 billion from an existing
credit line.  “We want to see this done as part of the regular budget
process, which is right now under way on  Capitol Hill ,”
Brainard said. “We think this is something that needs to get
done and will get done” in coming months, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in  Washington  at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  