-- Brazil Swap Rates Fall on Industrial Confidence; Real Advances
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-06-19T13:05:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/brazil-swap-rates-fall-on-industrial-confidence-real-advances.html
Brazil ’s swap rates dropped for the
first time in four days after a report showed industrial
confidence declined in June, prompting speculation that
lackluster economic growth will help tame inflation.  Swap rates on the contract due in January 2015 fell 19
basis points, or 0.19 percentage point, to 10 percent at 9:55
a.m. in  Sao Paulo . The real appreciated 0.4 percent to 2.1726
per  U.S. dollar  after touching a four-year intraday low of
2.1856 yesterday, prompting the central bank to intervene to
stem its decline.  Traders pared wagers on a sustained pace of increases in
borrowing costs after a preview from the Getulio Vargas
Foundation showed that its industrial confidence index fell to
103.7 in June from 105 in the prior month. Central bank
president Alexandre Tombini said in Senate hearings yesterday
that policy makers are working to reduce the inflationary
pressure that may stem from a drop in the real.  “The domestic data are more benign today for rates, with
the drop in industrial confidence, and Tombini’s comments
yesterday weren’t very hawkish,” Daniel Cunha, the chief
economist at XP Investimentos, said in a telephone interview.  The central bank raised its  target lending rate  by 50 basis
points on May 29 to 8 percent to curb inflation, surprising 38
of 57 economists surveyed by Bloomberg, who had expected a
second straight increase of 25 basis points. The benchmark was
held at a record low 7.25 percent from October to March to
support growth.  ‘Adverse Winds’  Brazil is prepared to face the “adverse winds” of a
stronger dollar and has the capacity to make the currency market
function adequately, Tombini told the Senate’s Economic Affairs
Committee in Brasilia yestereday.  The real rose today along with most of the other major
dollar counterparts on speculation that the  Federal Reserve  will
sustain at the end of its two-day policy meeting
a stimulus program that has buoyed emerging-market assets.  The central bank sold $4.5 billion in foreign-exchange swap
contracts in two auctions yesterday, the sixth day of
intervention in three weeks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  