-- Brown Leads Insurance Broker Slump on Blair’s Rate Call
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h a y k o w s k i
-- 2013-06-19T17:06:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/brown-leads-insurance-broker-slump-on-blair-s-rate-call.html
Brown & Brown Inc. (BRO)  led a slump among
insurance brokers, falling the most since October, after William
Blair & Co. said slowing growth in rates for commercial coverage
will curb profit for the industry’s middlemen.  Brown & Brown, the family-run insurance intermediary based
in Daytona Beach,  Florida , fell 2.5 percent to $32.31 at 12:47
p.m. in New York. Itasca, Illinois-based  Arthur J. Gallagher &
Co. (AJG)  slipped 2.4 percent.  Blair’s Adam Klauber cut both stocks to market perform from
outperform. Brown & Brown rallied 30 percent this year through
yesterday, and Gallagher gained 31 percent as brokers benefited
when carriers including  Travelers Co. (TRV)  and  American International
Group Inc. (AIG)  raised insurance prices to compensate for lower bond
yields and claims costs from natural disasters. Brokers earn
commissions tied to the value of insurance that they sell.  “A reversal in pricing will likely flatten, or possibly
result in a deceleration of, organic growth rates over the next
12 months, which in turn will reduce earnings growth in 2014 and
2015,” Klauber said in a note today.  Commercial insurance rates in the second half of this year
will probably climb no more than 3 percent, he said. That
compares with an estimate of increases as much as 7 percent in
the first six months.  Marsh & McLennan Cos., the largest insurance broker by
market value, fell 1.5 percent and No. 2  Aon Plc (AON)  dropped 1.1
percent. Klauber maintained his ratings of outperform for
London-based Aon and market perform for New York-based Marsh &
McLennan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Chaykowski in New York at 
 kchaykowski2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  