-- Canadian Natural Considers Acquisitions Amid Market Slump
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-06-19T21:38:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/canadian-natural-considers-acquisitions-amid-market-slump.html
Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. (CNQ) , the
nation’s third-largest oil and natural gas producer by market
value, is evaluating acquisitions as a lack of export conduits
and financing keeps industry share prices depressed.  “There are opportunities out there” for Canadian Natural,
Murray Edwards, chairman of the Calgary-based company, said at a
meeting with investors today. A number of companies are
“starved for capital” as Canadian producers have
underperformed in the last five years, and there are “lots of
properties for sale,” Edwards said.  Canadian energy companies have underperformed U.S. peers by
19 percentage points in the past five years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The number of assets for sale in  Canada 
now is “the largest we have seen in several years,” Chris Feltin, a Calgary-based analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd., said in
a phone interview today.  The Canadian oil and gas industry has performed below
expectations because of a lack of transportation to get crude to
market, depressed gas prices and poor results from outside
financing of early-stage companies, Edwards said.  Canadian Natural probably won’t buy any oil-sands
properties, Feltin said. “They may look at consolidating some
of the liquids-rich gas and light oil in  Alberta  and northeast
British Columbia” Feltin said.  “We like pools that have been undermanaged, underexploited
or undercapitalized,” Edwards said.  The company ranks acquisitions fourth out of five uses of
its cash flow, according to the investor presentation today.
Resource development comes first, followed by dividends and
share repurchases. Paying down debt falls last.  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU)  and  Imperial Oil Ltd. (IMO)  are the largest
Canadian producers by market value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  