-- Canada’s Envoy Says Keystone Denial Won’t Block Mining
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-06-19T15:18:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/canada-s-envoy-says-keystone-denial-won-t-block-mining.html
Heavy oil from Alberta will be
developed with or without the proposed Keystone XL pipeline,
though the fuel will be delivered to market using less efficient
means, Canada’s ambassador to the U.S. said.  Speaking at a Bloomberg Government breakfast in Washington
today, Gary Doer said he supported the U.S. State Department’s
finding in March that blocking the  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  pipeline
won’t stop production of bitumen, a type of heavy crude oil, in
the oil sands of the Canadian province.  Enviromentalists oppose Keystone in part because they say
production and use of bitumen releases more  greenhouse gases 
tied to  climate change  compared with conventional forms of
crude.  “Oil will get to market,” Doer said. “It gets to market
with pipelines. It will get to market by trains. It will get
there by trucks. It will get to India, it will get to China, and
it will continue to have the opportunity to go to U.S.
refineries, which create a lot of jobs for the United States for
the manufacturing sector on the U.S. Gulf Coast.”  The State Department is reviewing  TransCanada’s (TRP)  application
to build the $5.3 billion link between Alberta and  Steele City ,
Nebraska. From Nebraska, the oil would eventually find its way
to refineries along the Gulf Coast.  The State Department has jurisdication because the pipeline
crosses an international border.  Canadian Lobbying  Environmentalists argue that developing the oil sands will
be slowed if President  Barack Obama ’s administration rejects
Keystone, and cite lobbying by TransCanada and Canadian
officials such as Doer as evidence of the project’s importance.  The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, responding to the
State Department’s draft environmental analysis, said the report
was insufficient in assessing how Keystone would affect oil-sands development and therefore greenhouse-gas emissions.  Doer said Canadian officials are pressing the point that
the oil will be developed regardless of the U.S. decision. He
said Keystone will reduce the costs to transport the fuel and
release less carbon dioxide than transporting the fuel by train
or truck.  “I haven’t seen anything that refutes this common sense
fact that this oil is going to go from  Canada  to market,” Doer
said. “We’re trying to make sure the facts are straight. It’s
coming on trains now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  