-- Canada Dollar Declines as Bernanke Says Fed Could Taper Buying
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r   a n d   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 2013-06-19T21:17:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/canada-dollar-falls-to-lowest-in-week-before-bernanke-statement.html
The Canadian dollar fell as its U.S.
peer gained versus most other currencies after Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said risks to the economy have
decreased and policy makers could end bond purchases in the
middle of next year.  The Canadian currency rose earlier as Bank of Canada
Governor Stephen Poloz said in his first public speech that the
nation will need a rebound in business confidence to drive
growth in coming years, a process that will require “stability
and patience.” It extended the advance after Canadian wholesale
sales rose for a fourth month in April, the longest streak of
gains in a year.  “The loonie is weakening mainly because of Fed forecasts
that show an improvement in the unemployment rate, which could
imply higher rates in the U.S. sooner than mid-2015,”  Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  in
Toronto, said by e-mail. “That has created U.S. dollar
strength.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, fell 0.6 percent to
C$1.0273 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto after gaining as
much as 0.4 percent. It touched C$1.0287, the weakest level
since June 7. One loonie buys 97.34 U.S. cents.  Futures on crude oil, Canada’s largest export, fell 0.5
percent to $97.93 a barrel in New York and the Standard & Poor’s
GSCI index of 24 commodities gained 0.5 percent. The S&P 500
Index of stocks declined 1.4 percent.  Ten-year benchmark bond yields surged nine basis points, or
0.09 percentage point, to 2.25 percent. The 1.5 percent security
maturing in June 2023 fell 78 cents to C$93.36.  ‘Moderate’ Buying  The Fed may “moderate” its pace of bond purchases later
this year and may end them around mid-2014, Bernanke said at a
press conference in  Washington .  “If the incoming data are broadly consistent with this
forecast, the committee currently anticipates that it would be
appropriate to moderate the pace of purchases later this year,”
Bernanke said. “And if the subsequent data remain broadly
aligned with our current expectations for the economy, we will
continue to reduce the pace of purchases in measured steps
through the first half of next year, ending purchases around
mid-year.”  Bernanke is expanding the Fed’s balance sheet toward $4
trillion as he seeks to reduce a jobless rate that stands at 7.6
percent after four years of economic growth. The Fed left
unchanged its statement that it plans to hold its target
interest rate  near zero  as long as unemployment remains above
6.5 percent and the outlook for inflation doesn’t exceed 2.5
percent.  ‘On Target’  A pick-up in foreign demand for  Canada ’s exports,
particularly in the U.S., is critical to bolstering confidence,
Poloz said in a speech to the Oakville, Ontario, Chamber of
Commerce. The Bank of Canada can help by keeping inflation
“predictable, stable and on target” and providing information
about the economy and the central bank’s “monetary policy
response.”  “This sequence may already by under way,” Poloz said.
“Right now, what we need most is stability and patience.”  While the Bank of Canada has been alone in the Group of
Seven in signaling that its next move may be to raise interest
rates, economists are anticipating Poloz won’t tighten policy
until the end of next year at the earliest, in part to avoid a
strengthening of the Canadian dollar that could undermine
business confidence and exports.  Policy Bias  “What you can take away from his comments is you’re seeing
growth accelerate, and that’s a good reason to be bullish on the
Canadian dollar,” Adam Button, a currency analyst at
Forexlive.com in  Montreal , said of Poloz’s remarks in a
telephone interview. “The idea before he came in was that he
would be a dove, but if anything we’re seeing the opposite.”  Wholesale-sales receipts rose 0.2 percent to  C$49 billion 
($48 billion), Statistics Canada said in Ottawa, after a revised
0.1 percent gain in March. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
forecast sales would climb 0.3 percent, the median of 15
responses, from an initially reported 0.3 percent gain in March.  The Canadian dollar has declined 1.3 percent in the past
month among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes. The dollars of fellow
commodities exporters Australian and New Zealand lead decliners,
down 7 percent and 5 percent. The U.S. dollar dropped 1 percent.
The yen added 5.7 percent to lead gainers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Gutscher in Toronto at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  