-- Canadian Stocks Fall as Fed Says It May Moderate Stimulus Pace
-- B y   L u   W a n g   a n d   K a t i e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-06-19T21:22:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/canada-stocks-decline-as-investors-await-poloz-speech-fed-plans.html
Canadian  stocks  fell the most in a
week, ending two days of gains, after the U.S. Federal Reserve
said it may reduce the pace of bond purchases later this year as
economic risks subside.  Eight out 10 industry groups in the  Standard & Poor’s/TSX
Composite Index (SPTSX)  retreated as telephone, utility and raw-material
companies plunged at least 1.5 percent. BlackBerry dropped 3.7
percent after Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd. cut the stock’s rating,
citing a “weak” take-up of its BlackBerry 10 smartphones.
Premier Gold Mines Ltd. and Barrick Gold Corp. fell at least 3.6
percent.  The S&P/TSX lost 99.17 points, or 0.8 percent, to 12,268.29
at 4 p.m. in Toronto. The gauge had rallied 1.5 percent in the
previous two sessions. Trading was 11 percent higher than the
30-day average.  “The expectation was the Fed’s statement would be more
dovish in terms of when tapering will start,” said Brian Huen,
managing partner with Red Sky Capital Management Ltd. in
Toronto. He helps manage  C$220 million ($213 million).
“Unfortunately it came off hawkish and the sell-off came. We
had a pretty nice rally into today, and taking money off the
table after that statement is not unexpected.”  The Fed may “moderate” its pace of bond purchases later
this year and may end them around mid-2014, Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said. The  Federal Open Market Committee  said at the
conclusion of a two-day meeting in  Washington  that risks to the
outlook for the economy and the labor market have “diminished
since the fall.”  Fed Stimulus  The U.S. central bank said it will keep buying bonds at a
pace of $85 billion a month, and repeated that it’s prepared to
increase or reduce the pace of purchases depending on the
outlook for the job market and inflation.  Canadian equities fell earlier in the day as Bank of  Canada 
Governor Stephen Poloz said in his first public speech since
taking office June 3 that a pick-up in foreign demand for
Canada’s exports, particularly in the U.S., is critical to
bolstering confidence. The U.S. and  China  are Canada’s largest
trading partners.  The S&P/TSX reached a five-month low in April as concern
over global growth dragged down mining stocks. The index has
since climbed 2.7 percent, but remains the third-worst performer
among 24 developed markets in 2013.  Utilities stocks lost the most in the benchmark index
today, declining 2.3 percent, the biggest one-day slide since
November. Raw-materials producers fell 1.7 percent, with
declines accelerating after the Fed announcement, as the price
of gold dropped to a four-week low.  Gold Slump  The S&P/TSX Gold Index slid 2.8 percent to its lowest in a
month, as 26 of 29 members slumped. Premier Gold plunged 7.2
percent to C$2.05, extending its four-day drop to 18 percent.
Barrick Gold, the world’s largest producer of the precious
metal, slid 3.6 percent to C$18.55.  “Inflation remains at a low pace and the easing may end,
so there are no real solid reasons to back gold,” Edward Lashinski, the Chicago-based director of global strategy for
futures trading at  RBC Capital Markets  LLC, said in a telephone
interview. The Fed’s plan to scale back asset purchases “is
making gold investors nervous,” he said.  Mobile-phone service providers fell, pacing declines among
telephone stocks. Verizon Communications Inc. said it has
expressed interest in acquiring wireless carrier Wind Mobile, a
move that would let the leading U.S. mobile-phone service expand
into Canada.  Telus, BlackBerry  Rogers Communications Inc. slipped 1.4 percent to C$46.25
while Telus Corp. declined 3.1 percent to C$34.35.  BlackBerry, formerly known as Research In Motion Ltd.,
declined 3.6 percent today to C$14.58. The maker of smartphones
was cut to underperform, an equivalent of sell, from market
perform by Bernstein analyst  Pierre Ferragu . Initial enthusiasm
over BlackBerry 10 models appears to be waning and the company
may disappoint investors in the second half, Ferragu said in a
note to clients.  BlackBerry rallied 4 percent yesterday after an analyst
with RBC Capital Markets increased his shipment estimates for
the new phones.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lu Wang in  New York  at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net ;
Katie Brennan in New York at 
 kbrennan23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  