-- Cancer-Resistant Naked Mole Rats Make Tumor Blocking Chemicals
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-06-20T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/cancer-resistant-naked-mole-rats-make-tumor-blocking-chemicals.html
Cancer resistance seen in  naked mole
rats , hairless African rodents that live 30 years or more, may
come from a sugar that keeps cells from clumping into tumors,
scientists studying the animals say.  The naked mole rat lives about 10 times longer than mice.
And unlike mice, 95 percent of whom die of cancer, the mole rat
is impervious to the disease, spurring interest from scientists
looking for hints on potential treatments for humans.  The sugar, called hyaluronan, exists between cells in
tissue, helping to hold them together, according to the report
in the journal  Nature . While all animals have hyaluronan, the
mole rat’s version is unusually large: about five times the size
of that found in humans.  “A lot of cancer research focuses on animals that are
prone to cancer,” said Vera Gorbunova, a study author and
professor in the biology department at the University of
Rochester in New York, in a statement. “We think it’s possible
to learn strategies for preventing tumors by studying animals
that are cancer-proof.”  In the study, the researchers tried to prompt tumor growth
by exposing the mole rats to proteins that cause cancer in mice.
Nothing happened until the researchers altered the production of
hyaluronan, the researchers wrote.  Naked mole rats have fascinated scientists for years
because of their unusually long lives. Researchers who sequenced
the genome of the naked mole rat found very little changes in
gene expression between a 4-year-old and a 20-year-old specimen,
they said in a report published in the journal Nature in October
2011. That’s unusual, they said then; humans underexpress 33
genes when young, and overexpress 21 when they age.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in San Francisco at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  