-- Chinese City Proposes Vehicle Restrictions to Reduce Smog
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-20T03:07:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/capital-of-chinese-province-with-worst-smog-restricts-car-sales.html
One of  China ’s most polluted cities
has proposed to limit vehicle ownership through a lottery,
becoming the latest locality to do so in the world’s largest
auto market as  air quality  and traffic congestion worsen.  Shijiazhuang, the capital of steel-producing Hebei province
surrounding Beijing, will restrict the number of new vehicles to
100,000 this year and limit households to owning two cars,
according to a Shijiazhuang Daily  report  posted on the local
government’s website yesterday. That quota will be cut to 90,000
in 2015, with a lottery being used to determine who can buy
cars, the report said.  The proposals are at a preliminary stage and require
hearings to be held before taking effect, an official at the
city government’s news office said by telephone. He declined to
give his name.  China has vowed to step up efforts to curb emissions after
air pollution and worsening congestion sparked public anger.
Shijiazhuang, which ranks among the worst in air quality
according to the environment ministry, joins Beijing,  Shanghai ,
Guangzhou and Guiyang in imposing vehicle quotas, even as cities
compete for new plants built by automakers from  General Motors
Co. (GM)  to  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)   More Limits  “In the mid to longer term, there is higher likelihood
we’ll see more and more cities imposing registration
limitations,” said Klaus Paur, Shanghai-based global head of
automotive coverage at researcher Ipsos. “The  auto industry 
contributes a lot to development so there’s a trade-off to be
made by each government, saying how much do I want my city to
develop.”  The measures proposed by Shijiazhuang are part of the
municipal government’s plan to cut levels of PM2.5 air
particulates -- the smallest and most harmful to human health --
by 15 percent through the end of 2015. Other provisions include
restricting the hours that heavy vehicles can enter city limits,
imposing alternate-day use for passenger cars from next year,
and requiring new autos to meet stricter emission standards.  China’s Ministry of Environmental Protection published a
list of the 10 cities with the worst air pollution last month,
with six of them located in  Hebei province , including
Shijiazhuang. That was unchanged from the list for the first
quarter.  The city aims to limit the total number of vehicles to
fewer than 2.3 million at the end of 2017 from a targeted 1.9
million this year.  Last week, Zhejiang province, which lies south of Shanghai
on China’s eastern coast, proposed to allow its cities to limit
the number of new vehicles, increase parking charges and improve
public transportation to control traffic congestion.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Liu in Beijing at 
 lliu255@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  