-- Carbon Rescue Plan Wins Support of EU Parliamentary Panel
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-06-19T16:46:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/carbon-market-rescue-plan-wins-support-of-eu-parliamentary-panel.html
A panel of European Union lawmakers
approved a watered-down rescue plan for the world’s biggest
carbon market, after a record surplus of emission permits pushed
prices to an all-time low.  Carbon allowances for December fell after the European
Parliament’s  environment committee  voted for a change to EU law
that would allow delaying the sale of some carbon permits in an
effort to support prices. It was the committee’s second opinion
on the emergency measure, known as backloading, after the
proposal was rejected by the full assembly in April.  The panel recommended the whole Parliament support the
restricted version of the measure after the original plan to
intervene in the EU’s $72 billion cap-and-trade program divided
policy makers and industry. Opponents of the fix, ranging from
 Poland  to steelmaker ArcelorMittal, say it pushes up energy
costs, while advocates such as  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  say it’s
needed to boost investment in pollution-cutting technology.  “The support for the compromise in the environment
committee suggests that the odds for passage of backloading in
the plenary are better than they were ahead of the last vote in
April,” said Itamar Orlandi, an analyst at Bloomberg New Energy
Finance in London. “The market will now increasingly look for
indications whether member states will also be willing to
support the compromise.”  Carbon Falls  Carbon slumped to an unprecedented 2.46 euros a metric ton
on April 17 after the Parliament rejected the European
Commission’s rescue proposal. The price was 7.93 euros in April
2012 when EU Climate Commissioner Connie Hedegaard first floated
the idea of fixing the surplus. The contracts dropped 7.2
percent today to close at 4.36 euros on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in  London .  The euro area’s second recession since 2008 has cut demand
for emissions permits, worsening a glut that swelled to almost 2
billion tons in 2012, almost equal to the EU’s annual limit.
Europe’s trading system imposes emissions caps on about 12,000
power plants and factories, which must surrender allowances to
cover their discharges of carbon dioxide or pay fines. The
pollution limits were set before the economic slowdown.  Quick Fix  While backloading was intended as a quick fix toward a
deeper overhaul of the EU carbon market, debate over the measure
has turned into a “never-ending story” and a vote on European
competitiveness, said Ingo Ramming, co-head of commodity
solutions at Commerzbank AG in London.  The environment committee’s decision “should support the
market,” he said by e-mail. “Backloading alone will provide,
in the mid-term, only limited upside taking into account the
current supply and demand balance.”  The compromise approved today was struck on June 12 by
negotiators from the European People’s Party, the Alliance of
Liberals and Democrats for Europe, and the Socialists and
Democrats group after almost two months of talks. The three
account for 544 of the 754 votes in plenary meetings. Members of
the assembly aren’t bound by party lines.  Under the compromise, the postponed permits would start to
be returned, or backloaded, to the market one year after the
allowances are set aside. The groups also agreed on a one-time
intervention and to earmark 600 million permits for a fund to
develop clean technologies. The commission, the EU’s regulatory
arm, originally proposed delaying 900 million allowances in the
three years through 2015 and returning them in 2019-2020.  Rescue Plan  The committee voted 44 to 23, with one abstention, against
a measure to reject the rescue plan today. Members of the panel
cast 38 votes in favor of the compromise deal, with 27 lawmakers
objecting the deal and one abstaining.  “We had a positive outcome in the committee and I hope the
market will react in a positive way,” Matthias Groote, chairman
of the environment panel and the lawmaker in charge of the
carbon fix in the Parliament, told reporters. “I hope we will
also be able to reach a compromise in the plenary.”  Eija-Riitta Korhola, who is in charge of the measure in the
EPP, the biggest group in the Parliament, said she remained
against backloading even as most of her party members in the
committee backed it. The EPP, which opposed the market fix in
April, will decide its position for the plenary vote next week.  “Many of my colleagues are furious about what happened and
they will vote against the measure in July,” she said. “I’m
not sure if this group will be strong enough to block it.”  Final Wording  A vote in favor of backloading in the assembly on July 3
would authorize Groote to start talks with representatives of
national governments on the final wording of the legislation.
The outcome of the talks will need official approval by the
Parliament and EU ministers.  While the plenary is likely to approve the compromise
version, the restrictions the Parliament is seeking will make
talks with the council of ministers more difficult, according to
Bas Eickhout, a Dutch member of the Greens group in the EU
Parliament.  “We’ll have complicated negotiations with the council,”
he told a briefing in Brussels today. “They can start in
September and take a while.”  In the second stage of the regulatory process, member
states will decide on the details of backloading in a separate
regulation, which will set the amount of allowances to be
postponed and the schedule of auction delays.  Europe’s steel industry called backloading “unnecessary
intervention into a functioning market for carbon allowances,”
according to a statement today from Eurofer, the lobby group
that includes  ArcelorMittal. (MT)  The Hague-based Shell, as a member
of the Prince of  Wales ’s Corporate Leaders Group on Climate
Change, backs efforts to support the carbon market.  The temporary supply curbs are the first step toward a
deeper overhaul of the cap-and-trade program, according to the
commission. The regulator outlined options for a reform of the
market in November and is planning to take further steps later
this year, Jos Delbeke, director general for climate at the
commission, said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  