-- Carbon Drops Most in Four Weeks as EU Panel Passes Weakened Fix
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2013-06-19T17:10:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/carbon-drops-most-in-a-month-before-eu-panel-vote-on-glut-fix.html
European Union carbon permits fell
the most in four weeks as the European Parliament’s environment
committee approved a weakened proposal to reduce a surplus of
emissions allowances.  The December futures contract lost 6.9 percent to close at
4.39 euros ($5.88) a metric ton on London’s ICE Futures  Europe 
exchange, the biggest decline since May 22. Earlier the contract
fell as much as 7.2 percent to 4.36 euros a ton.  The Parliament’s environment panel approved amendments to a
proposal by the European Commission to delay the sale of as many
as 900 million permits to trim a glut that’s swelled to about 2
billion tons in 2012, almost equal to the EU’s annual limit.
Prices rose for six out of the last seven weeks as traders bet
the proposal would be passed.  “This compromise is basically quite toothless,” because
the supply of permits will be returned to the market straight
after being withdrawn, said Patrick Hummel, an analyst for UBS
AG in Zurich. “Carbon had a good run into today’s event” and
the outlook for prices is “weak,” he said today by phone.  The amount of outstanding futures contracts, or open
interest, for December dropped 1.9 percent to 595 million tons
yesterday in the biggest decline since Nov. 15, according to ICE
Futures Europe data. Open interest for the December 2015
contract increased by the most ever yesterday, rising 5.7
percent to 188 million tons.  The decline in December open interest figure may have
reflected traders selling before the EU panel’s vote today,
Milan Hudak, an analyst at Virtuse Energy sro in  Prague , said by
e-mail.  Member States  The amendment, passed by 38 votes to 27, means “the odds
for passage in the plenary are higher than they were on April 16
when backloading was rejected,” Itamar Orlandi, an analyst in
London at Bloomberg New Energy Finance, said today by e-mail.
“The market will now increasingly look for indications whether
 member states  will also be willing to support the compromise.”  Europe’s emissions trading system imposes caps on power
plants and factories, which must surrender allowances to cover
their discharges of carbon dioxide or pay fines. The pollution
limits were set before the euro area’s second recession since
2008 cut industrial demand for the permits, exacerbating a
surplus that helped push prices to an all-time low.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandro Vitelli in  London  at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  