-- Charges Against Ex-Major League Soccer Executive Drop
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-06-19T18:06:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/charges-against-ex-major-league-soccer-executive-drop.html
New York  prosecutors dropped assault
charges against the former head of Dallas’s Major League Soccer
franchise, who was accused of attacking his wife in a midtown
Manhattan hotel last year.  Hal Douglas Quinn was arrested Nov. 10 at the Alex Hotel on
East 45th Street after his wife, Elizabeth, told police that he
struck her and tried to choke her during an argument, according
to the New York City Police Department. He was charged with
third-degree assault, a misdemeanor, and second-degree
strangulation, a felony that carries a prison term of as long as
seven years.  The Manhattan District Attorney’s Office moved to dismiss
the case today after reviewing hospital records, the victim’s
injuries and evidence from the site of the alleged attack. There
wasn’t enough evidence to prove Quinn’s guilt beyond a
reasonable doubt, prosecutors said.  “In deciding to dismiss all charges, the district
attorney’s office conducted a thorough investigation,” Quinn’s
attorneys, Alan S. Futerfas and Bettina Schein, said in a
statement. “Mr. Quinn is thrilled to be finally vindicated.”  Quinn was named president and chief executive officer of FC
 Dallas  in June 2010 after six years as president of Major League
Soccer affiliate Soccer United Marketing. He was placed on
administrative leave after his arrest and  stepped down  in
February to “allow him to spend more time with his family.”  ‘Went Wrong’  Quinn was in New York visiting friends when he was
arrested, according to Futerfas. Elizabeth Quinn told the New
York Post after her husband’s arrest that “things went wrong”
after the couple had a “lovely night” celebrating his 50th
birthday the previous night and that the pair, who have two
small children, plan to stay together.  Quinn’s wife told police her husband struck her in the face
with a closed fist, causing swelling and bruising on the left
side, and tried to choke her, according to the NYPD. She was
treated by emergency medical services at the scene and taken to
New York Presbyterian/Weill Cornell Medical Center, police said.  The victim, who wasn’t identified in the complaint, told
police that Quinn “repeatedly punched her in the face and body,
causing her to suffer substantial pain, bruising and swelling to
her face, arms and legs, and causing her eye to become swollen
shut,” according to the complaint.  She also told officers that Quinn “placed his hands around
her neck and applied pressure and placed a pillow over her head
and applied pressure, making it difficult for the victim to
breathe and causing her to lose consciousness,” according to
the complaint.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court at 
8969 or  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  