-- China Internet Security Stocks Rally on Snowden: Shenzhen Mover
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-06-19T04:20:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/china-internet-security-stocks-rally-on-snowden-shenzhen-mover.html
Surfilter Network Technology Co.
jumped to a  record  as Chinese  Internet security  companies
rallied on speculation they will benefit from increased demand
to protect domestic computer networks.  Surfilter Network Technology, which provides website
security products, jumped 6 percent to 25.49 yuan at the 11:30
a.m. local-time break in Shenzhen.  Bluedon Information Safe
Technology Co. (300297)  added to yesterday’s 10 percent jump, rising 3
percent to 23.98 yuan. The Shenzhen Composite Index slid 1.1
percent, while the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  dropped 1.2 percent.  China on June 17 called on the U.S. to explain a
surveillance program that was revealed by former National
Security Agency contractor Edward Snowden. In an interview with
the  South China Morning Post , Snowden said the U.S. had been
hacking computers in Hong Kong and mainland  China  since 2009.  “After the Snowden incident, the China government will
need to emphasize more on Internet security and also come up
with domestic companies for our own information data purposes,”
Liu Xing, an analyst at Guodu Securities Co., said in a phone
interview in Beijing today.  Snowden disclosed this month that the NSA is collecting
millions of U.S. residents’ telephone records and the computer
communications of foreigners from Google Inc. and other Internet
companies under court order.  Intelligence-gathering efforts by the U.S. have helped
prevent more than 50 terrorist attacks in more than 20
countries, including one planned on the New York Stock Exchange,
government officials said yesterday. President  Barack Obama  said
in an interview with  Charlie Rose  the intelligence community is
in the process of determining “how much of this we can
declassify without further compromising the program.”  The U.S. should pay attention to concerns over the
surveillance program and “give the international community a
necessary explanation,” China’s Foreign Ministry spokeswoman
Hua Chunying said at a briefing in Beijing on June 17.  A House Intelligence Committee report last year urged U.S.
companies to steer clear of Huawei Technologies Co. and ZTE
Corp. on concerns the Chinese government could install malicious
hardware or software in U.S. telecommunications networks.  -- Editors: Allen Wan, Ravil Shirodkar  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  