-- China Says Middle East Conflict Too Complex for Just U.S.
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-19T09:11:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/china-envoy-says-middle-east-conflict-too-complex-for-u-s-alone.html
The  Middle East ’s challenges are too
complicated for the U.S. to address alone, a top Chinese envoy
said today, as the government seeks greater influence in a
region that’s the source of 50 percent of its oil imports.  China ’s new leadership is paying great attention to the
Israeli-Palestinian conflict, Wu Sike, China’s special envoy for
the Middle East, told the official Xinhua News Agency in
comments reported  yesterday . He spoke as China hosted United
Nations Secretary General Ban Ki Moon, who is scheduled to meet
President Xi Jinping today.  “The Middle East problems are too complex to be solved
single-handedly, including by a superpower like America taking
the leading role,” Wu said. “It’s not that the U.S. doesn’t
want to solve it, it’s that they can’t solve it.”  Since becoming president in March, Xi has taken steps to
bolster China’s role in promoting peace between  Israel  and the
Palestinians, including hosting visits by the two sides’ leaders
and proposing a plan to resolve the conflict. The Middle East
may feature more prominently in China’s pursuit of natural
resources amid forecasts the country will overtake the U.S. as
the world’s top crude importer in 2014.  Since taking his post earlier this year, U.S. Secretary of
State  John Kerry  has pushed to restart peace talks deadlocked
for almost three years. Xi’s proposal, announced last month,
called for a halt to settlement activities, an end to violence
against civilians and lifting the blockade of the  Gaza Strip . He
called for an independent Palestinian state on the basis of 1967
borders with East Jerusalem as its capital.  Main Contributor  “It’s no doubt that the  United States  is still a main
contributor to the peace process, but the Middle East is in an
urgent need of a new force,” Xinhua said in a commentary today.
“While other parties may be talking the talk, Beijing is
walking the walk.”  China doesn’t want to exclude others from the  peace
process , Wu said in the interview with Xinhua. Xi’s proposal
shows China has “the courage to face global hot-spot issues and
positively carry out the responsibilities of a world power,” Wu
was quoted as saying.  Crude imports into China averaged about 5.5 million barrels
a day last year, with half of it coming from the Middle East,
according to customs data.  China is hosting a two-day UN meeting to discuss how to
revive the peace process, though no one from Israel’s ruling
Likud party was listed among the  participants . Ban fears that
conflict in  Syria  could lead the international community to lose
sight of the Israeli-Palestinian peace process, according to
remarks prepared for the meeting.  “The coming weeks will be critical,” Ban said. “I cannot
stress enough the risk of missing the current window of
opportunity.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  