-- Chinese TV Spy Thriller Producer Fu Becomes a Billionaire
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-19T02:22:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/chinese-tv-spy-thriller-producer-fu-becomes-a-billionaire.html
Fu Meicheng, chairman of  Zhejiang
Huace Film & TV Co. (300133) , has become a billionaire as shares of the
maker of Chinese TV shows climbed to a record after it boosted
production of its historical dramas and spy thrillers.  Huace, based in Hangzhou,  China , makes and distributes
programming to TV channels and video-sharing websites. Its TV
production increased 65 percent to 1,075 episodes in 2012,
according to its annual report. Shares have more than doubled
this year on the Shenzhen Stock Exchange.  Fu, 55, has a 59 percent stake in the company valued at
$1.3 billion, according to data compiled by the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index . He has never appeared on an international
wealth ranking.  “Huace’s productions are always popular because it has a
track record for creating high-quality shows,” said James Hu, a
Shanghai-based analyst at  Capital Securities Corp. (6005)  “TV channels
in China are fighting hard for such resources in order to sell
more advertising.”  Chinese TV and film producers have soared this year as a
rising number of middle-class viewers generates higher demand
for entertainment programming, said Hu, who has a “buy” rating
on Huace stock. Shares of  Huayi Brothers Media Corp. (300027) , the
filmmaker backed by Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. billionaire
Chairman Jack Ma, have doubled year-to-date.  Huace accounted for 6 percent of China’s total production
of 17,703 episodes of TV dramas last year,  according  to data
from the State Administration of Radio, Film and Television. Its
shows include “Memories in China,” a TV play about a feud
between two families in the late Qing Dynasty, and “The Silent
War,” a spy thriller, which featured Hong Kong actor Tony Leung
and Chinese actress Zhou Xun.  Movies, Theaters  Apart from TV programming, which accounted for  93 percent 
of Huace’s sales in 2012, the company also produces movies and
operates cinemas, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. More
than 96 percent of its revenue was generated in China last year.
Box-office sales increased 30 percent to 17 billion  yuan  ($2.8
billion) in 2012,  official data  show.  Huace shares rose 0.3 percent to 24.43 yuan on May 27, the
last day before trading was halted as the company is planning a
major asset restructuring, according to regulatory filings in
May and June.  Asset restructuring would probably result in an increase in
the share price once trading starts again, Hu said.  Co-Founders  Fu owns 36 percent of Huace shares directly and controls
another 23 percent through a holding company, HZ Large Policy
Invest Co., according to Huace’s 2012 annual report. He founded
Huace in 2000 with his wife Zhao Yifang, who serves as Huace’s
president and is chairwoman of HZ Large Policy Invest, according
to its  website .  China’s Vice Premier Liu Yandong visited Huace in May and
encouraged the company to export more products. Such inspection
tours and the scripted praise handed out by senior government
officials are widely seen as indicators of influence.  Wei Ling, a Hangzhou-based spokeswoman for Huace declined
to comment on Fu’s net worth. Fu wasn’t available for comment,
she said.  Huace sold shares in an initial public offering in Shenzhen
in 2010, becoming China’s first publicly held TV drama producer.
Profits increased 40 percent to 215 million yuan in 2012.  “Since its listing, Huace has been able to constantly
improve the quality and quantity of its TV series business,”
said Zhao Yue, a Beijing-based analyst at Rising Securities Co.,
who has an “outperform” rating on the stock. “Other
businesses and investments are also starting to bear fruit.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Wei in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  