-- China Swaps Gain Most in Five Years on Prolonged Cash Squeeze
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-19T07:16:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/china-swaps-climb-for-record-13th-day-as-cash-shortage-deepens.html
China’s one-year interest-rate swap
rose by the most in five years as the central bank refrained
from adding funds to the financial system to ease a cash squeeze,
causing demand to fall at a government debt auction.  The  finance ministry ’s sale of 30 billion  yuan  ($4.9
billion) of 10-year bonds today drew bids for 1.43 times the
amount on offer, the least since August 2012. The People’s Bank
of China asked lenders to submit orders for 14-day reverse-repurchase agreements and 28-day repurchase contracts this
morning, according to a trader at a primary dealer required to
bid at the auctions. The PBOC has refrained from using reverse
repos, which inject funds, since Feb. 7.  “The cash shortage may get even worse before the quarter-end because banks will have to hoard cash to meet loan-to-deposit ratio requirements,” said Chen Qi, a strategist at UBS
Securities Co. in  Shanghai . “The central bank probably won’t
come out to intervene unless there is a sharp decline in
economic growth and large capital outflows.”  China ’s one-year swap, the fixed cost needed to receive the
floating seven-day repo rate, jumped 41 basis points to 4.39
percent as of 3:11 p.m. in Shanghai, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. That was the biggest gain since June 2008 and the
highest level since September 2011.  Inflows Wane  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, increased 138 basis points, or 1.38
percentage points, to 8.20 percent, a weighted average compiled
by the National Interbank Funding Center shows. It touched 8.21
percent earlier, the highest since June 2011.  The finance ministry sold the 10-year notes at a yield of
3.50 percent, according to a trader at a  finance company  that
participates in the auctions. That compares with the median
estimate of 3.47 percent in a Bloomberg News survey and 3.38
percent at the previous sale on May 22.  Yuan positions at local financial institutions accumulated
from sales of foreign exchange, an indication of capital inflows,
rose 66.86 billion yuan in May, the central bank reported June
14, the smallest increase since November.  Monetary loosening would lead to more fund outflows and
affect the foreign-exchange market, the Financial News reported
today, citing an unidentified person. The PBOC also gauged
demand for 91-day bills tomorrow, according to the trader.  Chinese regulators are forcing trust funds and wealth
managers to shift assets into publicly traded securities as it
seeks to curb lending that doesn’t involve local banks, known as
shadow banking.  Market ‘Disappointed’  “The market is disappointed by the lack of reverse repos
from the PBOC,” said  Frances Cheung , a strategist at Credit
Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong . “The liquidity squeeze stems from
less inflows and policy makers’ own policy to crack down on
shadow banking, so the PBOC may be reluctant to use short-term
tools to help.”  Fitch Ratings  said in a statement yesterday that the cash
shortage reflects the move to reduce shadow banking, a measure
that will ultimately slow economic growth.  New home prices rose in 69 of the 70 Chinese cities tracked
by the government in May, defying lending curbs, an official
report showed yesterday. China may expand property tax trials to
more cities “soon,” the China Securities Journal reported
today, citing unidentified people. Beijing, Shenzhen, Nanjing,
Hangzhou and Qingdao have drafted property tax trial plans, the
report said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in  Singapore  at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net ;
 Judy Chen  in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  