-- China Stocks Fall to a Six-Month Low on Cash Crunch, IPO Concern
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-06-19T07:31:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/china-stock-index-futures-fall-amid-ipo-property-curbs-concern.html
China’s stocks  fell to a six-month
low as surging money-market rates signal a cash shortage is
worsening and speculation grew regulators are considering
resuming approvals of initial public offerings.  China  Citic Bank Corp. and China Minsheng Banking Corp. led
declines for lenders as the repurchase rate, a measure of
interbank funding availability, jumped to the highest level
since June 2011. China Vanke Co. and Poly Real Estate Co., the
nation’s biggest developers, slid at least 1.6 percent after the
China Securities Journal reported the government may soon expand
property tax trials to more cities.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell 0.7 percent to 2,143.45
at the close, the lowest close since Dec. 13. The CSI 300 Index
lost 0.7 percent to 2,400.76, while the  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  dropped 1 percent.  “The liquidity squeeze remains a continuing problem and
investors are still worried there will be more property rules,”
said Du Liang, an analyst from Shanxi Securities Co. “There’s
an over-reaction to the IPO news. With the slew of negative
news, the market’s outlook isn’t good in the short term unless
we see government measures to increase cash in the system.”  The government has halted IPOs since October. China will
allow IPOs only after new rules aimed at boosting protection for
investors go into effect, a China Securities Regulatory
Commission official with knowledge of the matter said.  Companies that have already been cleared by the regulator
in a listing hearing will be allowed to proceed with their share
sales if they fulfill the new requirements, said the official,
who asked not to be identified because he wasn’t authorized to
speak publicly. The CSRC will probably resume approving IPOs at
the end of July, Reuters reported yesterday, citing unidentified
people present at an industry meeting with the regulator.  Tight Liquidity  China Citic Bank retreated 1.8 percent to 3.92  yuan . China
Minsheng Banking lost 2 percent to 9.75 yuan. China Construction
Bank Corp., the nation’s second-biggest lender, declined 1.1
percent to 4.60 yuan.  China’s one-year swap, the fixed cost needed to receive the
floating seven-day repo rate, jumped 41 basis points to 4.39
percent in  Shanghai , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That was the biggest gain since June 2008 and the highest level
since September 2011. The seven-day repurchase rate increased
1.38 percentage points to 8.20 percent, a weighted average
compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center show.  “Liquidity is very, very tight,” Hao Hong, China
strategist at Bank of Communications Co., said in a Bloomberg
Television interview today in  Hong Kong . Investors should avoid
buying equities given signs of an economic slowdown, he said.  Economic Outlook  The Shanghai Composite has slumped 12 percent from this
year’s high on Feb. 6 on signs the nation’s economic slowdown is
deepening. Trading volumes were 24 percent below the 30-day
moving average.  HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics are due to release a
preliminary manufacturing reading tomorrow. The index was
probably at 49.2 in June, unchanged from 49.2 a month earlier,
according to the median estimate of 14 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey. A reading above 50 indicates expansion.  A gauge of  property stocks  in the Shanghai gauge slid 1.2
percent, the most among five industry groups. China Vanke sank
2.4 percent to 10.19 yuan. Poly Real Estate retreated 1.6
percent to 10.94 yuan.  Property Tax  The cities of Beijing, Shenzhen, Nanjing, Hangzhou and
Qingdao have drafted property tax trial plans, the China
Securities Journal reported, citing unidentified people the
report said. China currently has property tax trials in Shanghai
and Chongqing. Chinese  home prices  climbed from a year earlier
in 69 of the 70 cities tracked by the government, the National
Bureau of Statistics said in a statement yesterday.  The Shanghai index trades at 8.8 times 12-month estimated
earnings, compared with the three-year average of 10.7,  data 
compiled by Bloomberg showed. Its 30-day  volatility  was at 14.9,
compared with this year’s average of 18.96. The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index rose 0.5 percent yesterday.  Surfilter Network Technology, which provides website
security products, jumped 8 percent to 25.95 yuan. Bluedon
Information Safe Technology Co. added to yesterday’s 10 percent
jump, rising 0.7 percent to 23.45 yuan.  Former National Security Agency contractor Edward Snowden
disclosed this month that the agency is collecting millions of
U.S. residents’ telephone records and the computer
communications of foreigners from Google Inc. and other Internet
companies under court order.  “After the Snowden incident, the Chinese government will
need to emphasize more on  Internet security  and also come up
with domestic companies for our own information data purposes,”
Liu Xing, an analyst at Guodu Securities Co., said in a phone
interview in Beijing today.  -- Editors: Allen Wan, Darren Boey  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  