-- Chinese Govt Says Financial System Must Support Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-20T01:51:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/china-says-financial-system-must-support-economy-as-rates-rise.html
China ’s Cabinet said the nation’s
financial system must better support economic growth and
restructuring, after a surge in credit failed to ignite growth
and interbank borrowing costs jumped to the highest since 2006.  Authorities will boost credit support for industries the
government has defined as strategic and those that are labor-intensive, the State Council said in Beijing yesterday after a
meeting led by Premier Li Keqiang. The nation must also more
firmly guard against financial risks, it said.  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of interbank funding
availability, rose to the highest since at least 2006 today as
slowing  economic growth , a crackdown on illegal capital inflows
and efforts to rein in shadow banking contributed to increased
borrowing costs.  China (CNGFOREX) ’s central bank has refrained from using
reverse-repurchase agreements to inject funds into the interbank
market since Feb. 7.  The State Council “dashed hopes for any immediate rescue
efforts by the central bank to ease the credit crunch,” such as
reserve-ratio or interest-rate cuts, Tang Jianwei, a Shanghai-based economist at Bank of Communications Co., said by telephone
today. “Between stabilizing economic growth and adjusting the
growth model, China’s top policy makers have clearly made the
decision to focus on the latter.”  The State Council meeting yesterday discussed how the
financial industry can support a restructuring of China’s
economy, according to the statement. Chinese leaders have sought
to reduce the nation’s reliance on investment and  exports  for
economic growth and to increase the role of domestic
consumption.  More Forceful  The financial system must “support economic transformation
and upgrading in a more forceful way, serve real economic
development in a better way, promote domestic demand in a more
targeted way and prevent financial risks in a more concrete
way,” the State Council said.  China must push forward interest-rate liberalization,
encourage corporate overseas investment, boost bond issuance and
support those seeking to buy their first homes, according to the
statement. Bank lending for projects in industries with
overcapacity must be banned, the State Council said.  “Beijing’s new approach is to focus on reform, rather than
stimulus,” said  Qu Hongbin , HSBC Holdings Plc’s Hong Kong-based
chief China economist, who cut his estimate for expansion this
year to 7.4 percent from 8.2 percent. “In the last three
months, we have seen enough evidence that the current generation
of leadership is really determined to push forward reform.”  Prudent Policy  China must also uphold prudent monetary policy and “use it
well,” and keep a reasonable scale of monetary aggregates, the
State Council said.  The government’s broadest measure of credit rose 58 percent
to a record 6.16 trillion  yuan  ($1 trillion) in the first
quarter, when gross domestic product gained 7.7 percent,
compared with 8.1 percent a year earlier.  Central bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said in April that the
nation needs to “sacrifice short-term growth” to make reforms
in the economy.  Chinese industrial production rose a less-than-forecast 9.2
percent from a year earlier and factory-gate prices fell for a
15th month in May, while  export gains  were at a 10-month low and
imports dropped. First-quarter economic growth slowed to 7.7
percent from 7.9 percent in the last three months of 2012.  Investment banks from Morgan Stanley to UBS AG this month
cut their estimates for China’s growth in 2013, and Barclays Plc
is estimating that expansion will slow to 7.4 percent, below the
government’s full-year target of 7.5 percent.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  