-- Chrysler Agrees to Repair SUVs on Fire Risk After Probe
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e   a n d   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2013-06-19T21:55:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/chrysler-agrees-to-repair-suvs-on-fire-risk-after-probe.html
Chrysler Group LLC’s decision to fix
some of the 2.7 million sport-utility vehicles linked to 51
deaths in post-crash fires averts what could have been the
biggest showdown with U.S. regulators in three decades over a
safety defect.  Chrysler, based in  Auburn Hills ,  Michigan , said in a
statement yesterday it reached an agreement with the U.S.
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration for a “voluntary
campaign” on  Jeep Grand Cherokee  and Jeep Liberty vehicles with
fuel tanks mounted behind the rear axles. The company, in a
letter to NHTSA yesterday, said the vehicles in question are
safe.  “I’m sure they had some legal experts say that with the
preponderance of the evidence, it was going to be very hard to
tip the scales in their favor given the deference courts give
government regulatory agencies,” said  David Kelly , an acting
NHTSA administrator during the George W. Bush administration
who’s now a transportation safety consultant.  Chrysler on June 4 said it would refuse NHTSA’s request to
recall the 2.7 million vehicles in question because they didn’t
pose a safety risk. Had the company held that position by
yesterday’s deadline to respond to the regulator, the standoff
could have proceeded to a public hearing and possibly to court.  The auto-safety advocate who pushed the company and U.S.
regulator to look at the Jeeps today told Chrysler its intended
fix, involving installation or replacement of trailer hitches,
is “woefully inadequate” and said it should recall more
vehicles.  Lawyers, Engineers  “Chrysler’s proposed recall will not stem the fire deaths
due to defective fuel systems in 1993-2004 Grand Cherokees,
2002-2007 Liberty’s and 1993-2001 Cherokees still under
investigation by NHTSA,”  Clarence Ditlow , executive director of
the Center for Auto Safety based in  Washington , wrote in the
 letter  to leaders of Chrysler and its majority owner,  Italy ’s
 Fiat SpA. (F)  The letter included pictures of three young children
he said were killed in Jeeps that aren’t part of the campaign.  “Chrysler can best save lives, its image and restore
 consumer confidence  by recalling all the Jeeps with a remedy
designed by engineers, not lawyers,” he said.  Chrysler stuck by its defense of the vehicles’ safety,
saying in the statement yesterday they aren’t defective and are
among the safest in their peer group.  “Chrysler Group recognizes that this matter has raised
concerns for its customers and wants to take further steps, in
coordination with NHTSA, to provide additional measures to
supplement the safety of its vehicles,” the company said.  Vehicle Reputation  The negative publicity that would have persisted through
regulatory or court challenges may have pushed Chrysler Chief
Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  to change his mind, said
Michelle Krebs, a senior analyst for auto-researcher Edmunds.com
in  Santa Monica ,  California .  “Chrysler can’t afford to have that vehicle’s reputation
damaged,” Krebs said in a telephone interview. “It’s the heart
and soul of Jeep and a source of big profit to Chrysler.”  The repair involves installing or repairing trailer hitches
to enhance protection in a low-speed crash, Chrysler said.  For 1.56 million Liberty and older Grand Cherokee vehicles,
a hitch assembly will be installed if one isn’t there now, the
company said in an e-mailed statement. If a vehicle has an
aftermarket hitch not made by Chrysler, it may be replaced.  The fixes “incrementally improve the performance” of some
of the vehicles in low-speed crashes, Chrysler said in the
letter.  Pinto Comparison  On about 1.14 million Grand Cherokees from model years 1999
through 2004, no action will be taken on those without a hitch.
Vehicles with after-market trailer hitches will be inspected,
and the units will be replaced if needed, Chrysler said.  NHTSA will continue its investigation “pending a review of
the documents provided by Chrysler in its recall action,” the
agency said in an e-mailed statement.  “Consumers impacted by the safety recall and customer
satisfaction campaign should have their vehicles serviced
promptly once they receive notification from Chrysler,” NHTSA
said.  A recall of 2.7 million vehicles would be one of the 20
 biggest  in U.S. history, Ditlow has said.  Ditlow asked NHTSA to crash test the repaired Jeeps the
same way the agency did in 1978 with  Ford Motor Co. (F)  Pintos that
had a similar defect and were fixed by the automaker.  “If the modified Jeeps do not pass, we call on NHTSA to
require Chrysler to develop a more effective remedy just as
NHTSA did with the Pinto when it failed the first round of
tests,” Ditlow said.  Ditlow, in a 2011 letter to Marchionne, called the Grand
Cherokee a “modern-day Pinto for soccer moms.”  Two-Year Probe  NHTSA, in  letter  Chrysler disclosed June 4, proposed
recalls for Grand Cherokees in model years 1993 to 2004 and the
Liberty in model years 2002 to 2007. Chrysler said yesterday
those model years that will be covered in its effort.  NHTSA Administrator  David Strickland  last week said the
Chrysler vehicles in question have safety defects and it’s up to
owners to decide whether the SUVs are safe to drive.  The Transportation Department, which includes NHTSA, has
investigated the Chrysler SUVs for more than two years. A year
ago, NHTSA upgraded a defect investigation into the fuel systems
in as many as 5.1 million Jeep vehicles following reports of
about two dozen fires. NHTSA opened its probe into the Chrysler
vehicles in October 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  