-- CME Rally Signals Volatility as Tapering Mulled: Credit Markets
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2013-06-19T10:08:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/cme-rally-signals-volatility-as-tapering-mulled-credit-markets.html
The surge in bond market volatility
and trading volumes stemming from the prospect of rising
interest rates, which  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive
Officer Jamie Dimon called “scary,” has only just begun, based
on shares of  CME Group Inc. (CME)   The owner of the world’s largest derivatives market, which
offers contracts that span Eurodollars to  Treasury (USGG10YR)  bonds, has
 risen  55 percent this year, more than any other financial firm.
Chicago-based CME Group gained 23 percent since Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  suggested on May 22 the central bank
could begin to reduce its $85 billion in monthly mortgage bond
and Treasuries purchases.  “That’s the equivalent of opening the barn door and
letting the horses out,” Brad Hintz, an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co., said in a telephone interview, referring to
Bernanke’s comments. “The actual movement of U.S. interest
rates does not have to occur for CME’s revenues to increase,”
the analyst, ranked second-best last year in covering brokerage
firms and exchanges by Institutional Investor magazine, wrote in
a June 17 note to clients.  Speculation over rising rates, which push bond prices down,
handed high-grade debt its largest monthly loss in more than
four years in May and has led investors to increase hedges and
to trade in the futures market, boosting volume on CME’s
exchanges. Volatility, a measure of price swings, rose to a one-year high of 84.8 on June 6, according to the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch  MOVE index . The gauge, which is based on over-the-counter Treasury options, has averaged 62.2 in the past year.  Trading Activity  CME Group said average daily trading in interest-rate
futures and options at its exchanges rose to 7.8 million
contracts last month, closing in on the all-time record of 9.8
million trades reached in August 2007. Trading fell to a low of
2.7 million a day in December 2008 after the Fed’s policy of
near-zero  interest rates  reduced the need for investors to hedge
or speculate with futures contracts.  Michael Shore , a CME Group spokesman, declined to comment
on volatility or volume projections, citing company policy.  Global markets will face increased volatility as central
banks bring interest rates back to normal levels, JPMorgan’s
Dimon said June 6 at the Fortune Global Forum in Chengdu,  China .  “We should all hope for a normalization of interest rates,
that’s a good thing,” Dimon said during a panel discussion.
“As we go back to normal, it’s going to be scary, and it’s
going to be kind of volatile.”  Bond Loss  CME Group  rose  1.17 percent to $77.28 yesterday in  New
York . The Standard & Poor’s 500 Financials Index rose 0.62
percent yesterday and gained 22 percent this year.  What’s been good for CME Group has had the opposite effect
on bond investors. Dollar-denominated, investment-grade bonds
declined 0.8 percent this month through June 17, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. That followed May’s
drop of 2.3 percent, the largest loss since a 7.4 percent
decline in October 2008.  Yields on global corporate and high-yield debt have
increased to 3.5 percent from a record-low 3.09 percent on May
2, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show. The six-week
surge marks the longest stretch of increases since October 2008,
following the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. that
plunged financial markets into their worst crisis since the
Great Depression.  Swap Spread  Elsewhere in credit markets,  Mylan Inc. (MYL) , the second-biggest
generic-drug maker, issued $1.15 billion of debt in its first
bond sale this year. Rising  interest rates  may trim issuance of
commercial-mortgage bonds by $15 billion this year, S&P said.
Travelport LLC increased the rate on a $1.55 billion  term loan 
it’s seeking to refinance debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, fell 0.4 basis point to 15.9 basis points.
The gauge narrows when investors favor assets such as company
debentures and widens when they seek the perceived safety of
 government securities .  The cost of protecting corporate bonds from default in the
U.S. fell, with the Markit CDX North American Investment Grade
Index, used to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, decreasing 0.2 basis point to a mid-price of
81.9 basis points, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The  Markit iTraxx Europe Index , tied to 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings, was little changed at 108.3 as of
11:04 a.m. in London. In the Asia-Pacific region, the Markit
iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade borrowers outside  Japan 
gained 4 to 139.4.  Chevron Issuance  The indexes typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Bonds of  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  were the most actively traded
dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers yesterday,
accounting for 3.5 percent of the volume of dealer trades of $1
million or more, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The second-largest U.S. oil company sold $6 billion of
bonds on June 17 in a four-part offering, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Its $2.25 billion of 3.191 percent, 10-year notes issued at par rose to 100.629 cents on the dollar to
yield 3.117 percent, Trace prices show.  Mylan split its sale between $650 million of 2.6 percent,
five-year securities that yield 160 basis points more than
similar-maturity Treasuries and $500 million of 1.8 percent,
three-year notes at a spread of 135 basis points, Bloomberg data
show.  CMBS Sales  Mylan, which canceled plans for floating-rate notes due
2016, last sold debt in December, issuing $750 million of 3.125
percent, 10-year debentures at 145 basis points, Bloomberg data
show.  Commercial-mortgage bond sales that Credit Suisse Group AG
says are poised to climb as much as 50 percent to $70 billion
are being checked by investor concern that the Fed will soon
pare $85 billion of monthly bond purchases. The unprecedented
stimulus has suppressed interest rates and pushed investors into
higher-yielding assets.  An increase of 55 basis points on 10-year Treasury yields
coupled with a rise of 30 basis points on relative yields on
top-ranked securities linked to property loans will put a damper
on the resurgent market, S&P analysts led by Howard Esaki said
in a note to clients. The analysts estimate 2013 sales of $65
billion after adjusting for the rising rates.  Leveraged Loans  Travelport, the travel-reservation system controlled by
Blackstone Group LP, will pay interest at 5 percentage points
more than the London interbank offered rate on the six-year
debt, up from the 4.5 percentage points initially proposed, said
a person with knowledge of the transaction who asked not to be
identified because terms are private.  The lending benchmark, which was  set  at 27 basis points,
will have a 1.25 percent floor. The new loan is being offered to
lenders at 98.5 cents on the dollars, lowered from 99 cents.  The S&P/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 Index rose 0.02 cent
to 97.86 cents on the dollar. The measure, which tracks the 100
largest dollar-denominated first-lien leveraged loans, has
 returned  2.59 percent this year.  Leveraged loans and high-yield, high-risk, or junk, bonds
are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than
BBB- at S&P.  FOMC Meeting  In  emerging markets , relative yields widened 9 basis points
to 338 basis points, or 3.38 percentage points, according to
JPMorgan’s EMBI Global index. The gauge had tightened for four
straight days from the highest level since last July.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  began a two-day policy
meeting yesterday, with Bernanke scheduled to hold a news
conference today. Investors are speculating when the central
bank will move to change its monetary policy, which has
suppressed interest rates.  “An inactive Fed hasn’t been good for rates trading,”
 Niamh Alexander , an analyst at KBW Inc. in New York, said in a
telephone interview. “An environment where you don’t have much
movement in rates means you don’t have to hedge.”  CME Group, formed in 2007 by the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange’s acquisition of the Chicago Board of Trade, is the
12th  best performer  in the  S&P 500  this year through yesterday,
Bloomberg data show. Since May 21, the day before Bernanke’s
comments, it’s the third-biggest gainer.  Bernstein’s Hintz raised his adjusted earnings-per-share
 estimate  on June 17 by 10 cents to $3.26 for 2013 and to $3.86
for 2014, Bloomberg data show.  ‘Near Monopoly’  The company united trading of short- and long-dated futures
with the 2007 combination of the two dominant Chicago
derivatives markets. The Chicago Merc was home to Eurodollar
trading while the Board of Trade developed U.S. Treasury bond
futures. In 2008, CME Group  bought  the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , giving it contracts in energy and metals. It controls
about 98 percent of all U.S. futures trading.  “Despite being a near monopoly with substantial barriers
to entry to new competition, post crisis, the CME was not able
to achieve the volume growth needed to support” the growth
estimates investors had come to expect, Hintz wrote in the note.  The rise in rate volatility will make interest-rate
contracts the biggest revenue generator in the second quarter at
CME Group, ahead of energy contracts, said  Richard Repetto , an
analyst at Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP.  Rising Volatility  CME Group was hit hard by the financial crisis, when its
shares, which it split five-for-one in July last year, fell to a
low of $31.31 on Nov. 20, 2008, after reaching a record $142.15
on Dec. 21, 2007.  As the crisis unfolded, “clients pulled back on hedging,
hedge fund activity levels fell and the industry de-risked,”
Hintz wrote in the note. With volatility now on the rise, that’s
no longer the case, he said.  “CME’s the bet on the recovering U.S. economy and
differing monetary policies around the world,” he said in the
interview. He added that once the Fed actually does raise rates,
the company should see another boost in its share price.
“There’s the smart money that anticipates rates moves and
hedges themselves” by buying futures, Hintz said. “And then
there are the guys who say, ‘Oops, I forgot,’ and then they
hedge.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 