-- CommonWealth Investors Pledge to Buy 51% of Company Debt
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2013-06-19T18:57:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/commonwealth-investors-pledge-to-buy-51-of-company-debt.html
Corvex Management LP and Related
Cos., the investors who want to replace  CommonWealth REIT (CWH) ’s
board, pledged to buy a majority of the debt in the company’s
credit agreements to prevent acceleration of the loans’ maturity
should they be successful in ousting the trustees.  The stockholders said they’ll offer to buy 51 percent of
the outstanding debt under CommonWealth’s revolving credit
agreement and its  term loan  at par to prevent the acceleration
of repayments. The pledge is being made to “alleviate any
shareholder concern” over the debt issue, Corvex and Related
said today in a statement.  “Since no such acceleration will occur, cross-acceleration
provisions included in other CommonWealth debt obligations will
not be triggered and should be of no concern to shareholders,”
Corvex and Related, the second-largest investors in the Newton,
Massachusetts-based real estate investment trust, said in the
statement.  Corvex, founded by activist investor Keith Meister, and
Related, a New York-based property developer, are soliciting
votes to remove the trustees, claiming that an overlap in board
membership and the ownership of an external management firm has
led to conflicts of interest and mismanagement at the REIT. The
dispute between the investors and the company is in arbitration.
CommonWealth has claimed the solicitation isn’t valid, and urged
stockholders on June 17 to take no action on it.  Tim Bonang, a CommonWealth spokesman, didn’t immediately
respond to a request for comment on the investors’ debt offer.  CommonWealth’s credit rating was lowered to junk on June 10
by  Standard & Poor’s , which cited concerns about the ability of
management “to improve the competitive positioning of its
office portfolio given weak office market conditions.” The REIT
was cut to BB+ from BBB-.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  