-- Coronavirus May Bring SARS-Like Scenario, EU Report Says
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-06-19T09:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/coronavirus-may-bring-sars-like-scenario-eu-report-says.html
The new coronavirus that’s killed 38
people, most of them in Saudi Arabia, may evolve into a health
crisis reminiscent of SARS as a lack of information from the
Arab world’s largest economy impedes the fight against the
outbreak, a report said.  Basic information about the disease, such as who is at
risk, the virus’s incubation period and its mode of transmission
is still missing for most cases, despite Saudi Arabia’s
obligations to share such details under international health
regulations, the European Centre for Disease Prevention and
Control said today.  Eleven cases of the virus have been detected in  France ,
 Germany ,  Italy  and the U.K. among people who traveled to the
Middle East, or who have had contact with someone who has,
suggesting that more imported cases can be expected, the
Stockholm-based agency said in the risk-assessment document. The
lack of information is making it impossible to estimate the
threat posed by the bug, according to the report.  “ECDC has to consider a number of underlying scenarios
that are compatible with the information available,” the
European Union agency said. “At this stage, it is not possible
to exclude a future SARS-like scenario.”  The new virus, dubbed Middle East respiratory syndrome
coronavirus, or MERS-CoV, has sickened 64 people since
September,  according  to the World Health Organization. The
source of the outbreak hasn’t been identified, and recent
infections in the Middle East indicate that the transmission is
ongoing, the ECDC said.  “It is unusual to have such a degree of uncertainty at
this stage in an outbreak,” according to the report.  Evacuation Danger  The situation echoes the 2003 health crisis caused by SARS,
or severe acute respiratory syndrome, when China was criticized
by the World Health Organization for a lack of cooperation in
the first weeks of the outbreak, which killed 774 people and
caused almost $40 billion in economic losses.  Some companies have evacuated Middle East employees who
suffer from other diseases, relocating them to Europe amid
concern they may catch the virus in hospitals, the ECDC said.
Those measures represent a “particularly high risk” for the
introduction of cases in Europe, according to the report.  “The number of transfers may increase as concern grows
among clinicians and the public in the Middle East that there is
a risk of MERS-CoV infection associated with hospitals in the
are,” the ECDC said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  