-- Credit Suisse, Baer Seen Facing Delay in U.S. Tax Deal
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m   a n d   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2013-06-20T10:55:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/credit-suisse-baer-seen-facing-delay-in-u-s-tax-deal-on-vote.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  Julius
Baer  Group Ltd., the largest Swiss banks embroiled in a U.S.
 tax-evasion  probe, may face delays in reaching settlements after
the Swiss Parliament rejected a bill that would have freed the
industry to send information to the U.S.  The two Zurich-based banks, among at least 14 Swiss
financial firms investigated by the Department of Justice since
2011 for allegedly helping Americans hide money from the
 Internal Revenue Service , are seeking to strike individual
agreements to avoid or defer prosecution by the U.S.  The government bill, supported by Swiss banks, was aimed at
helping firms not yet part of the U.S. probe avoid an indictment
like that of Wegelin & Co., which pleaded guilty in January to
helping American clients dodge taxes. While Credit Suisse and
Julius Baer can already share some data with U.S. authorities,
lawmakers’ rejection of the bill yesterday in Bern may
complicate matters for them.  “The U.S. will simply start to play hardball,” said
 Christopher Wheeler , a London-based analyst at Mediobanca SpA.
“The question is whether Credit Suisse and Julius Baer will get
hurt because they’re actually negotiating their own deferred
prosecution agreements, or does the whole thing just grind to a
halt where the U.S. says we’re going to leave it hanging over
you and wait till  Switzerland  sorts itself out.”  Postponement Unrealistic  Switzerland, the world’s largest center for cross-border
wealth, is trying to shed its reputation as a haven for
undeclared funds. Credit Suisse and Julius Baer are in talks
with the U.S. authorities to resolve the probes after  UBS AG (UBSN) ,
the biggest Swiss bank, avoided prosecution in 2009 by admitting
it aided tax evasion, paying $780 million and handing over
client names.  Both banks have previously said they expect to pay fines
and provide client names to resolve the U.S. probes after the
Justice Department indicted bankers and requested the firms give
up the names of former clients with undeclared offshore wealth.  Julius Baer is seeking to resolve the matter by the end of
this year with an “affordable” settlement, Chief Executive
Officer  Boris Collardi  said May 30. Credit Suisse Chairman Urs Rohner told Swiss paper Neue Zuercher Zeitung in an interview
published May 28 that “to believe that one can just postpone
this problem and that it will solve itself isn’t realistic.”  Credit Suisse and Julius Baer declined to comment for this
article on the details of a potential settlement.  Credit Suisse set aside 295 million Swiss francs ($321
million) for U.S. tax matters in the third quarter of 2011.
Julius Baer has said the size of its penalty remains unclear.  Prolonging Uncertainty  “Any delay on the matter would only fuel investor concerns
on the size of the fine and prolong the uncertainty,” said
Eleni Papoula, a London-based analyst with Berenberg Bank. An
affordable settlement “could be a short-term catalyst for the
share price of Credit Suisse and Julius Baer,” she said.  Credit Suisse sank as much as 3.8 percent today and was
down 3.3 percent as of 12:18 p.m. in Zurich. The stock has
 declined  13 percent since this year’s high on May 17, compared
with a 10 percent drop in the Bloomberg Europe Banks and
Financial Services Index. Julius Baer lost 11 percent while
 Basler Kantonalbank (BSKP) , a regional lender among the 14 firms
already being probed, slumped 28 percent since May 17.  Resolving the dispute would probably be positive for Credit
Suisse, depending on what it has to pay, because Switzerland’s
second-largest bank has businesses in the U.S., according to
 Teresa Nielsen , an analyst at Vontobel Holding AG in Zurich.  ‘Clean’ Way  “Settling means they can approach their U.S. clients in a
way that’s clean and they won’t have this legacy issue
anymore,” Nielsen said. “For Julius Baer, a settlement would
ease uncertainty over the impact on capital of a potential fine.
It’s more a reputational issue than about driving business
forward as the bank doesn’t intend to have operations in the
U.S.”  While Swiss companies are usually prohibited from sending
evidence to assist foreign legal proceedings, in April 2012
Credit Suisse and 10 other banks under investigation by the U.S.
were granted permission by the Swiss government to comply with
information requests from the  Department of Justice  and the
Securities and Exchange Commission.  The banks were required to document their activities
regarding U.S. cross-border business and forward records,
including internal policies, project documentation, minutes of
meetings and correspondence between client advisers and
customers.  American Requests  That did not include data on American clients, which can
only be obtained through administrative assistance procedures if
the customers were in fact engaging in potentially illegal
activities. The IRS has also been submitting such assistance
requests to get the client data.  The Swiss government received a request from the IRS in
September 2011 for data on Credit Suisse clients suspected of
evading taxes, which was clarified with a renewed request the
following July. The IRS was seeking information on accounts of
U.S. persons owned through a domiciliary company and maintained
by Credit Suisse or its Neue Aargauer Bank AG unit from 2002
through 2010.  Criteria cited by the IRS included U.S. securities being
held in the account, a balance in excess of $50,000 at any point
in the period and a lack of, or contradictory, records at the
bank on whether U.S. taxes have been paid from the account.  150 Cases  By March 2012, the Swiss tax authority supplied the IRS
with information relating to 150 of the 650 administrative
assistance cases originally submitted to Credit Suisse, Thomas
Brueckner, a spokesman for the Swiss tax authority, said on June
19 by phone. Brueckner said the information as it has already
been made public and declined to give further details about data
transfers as administrative assistance matters are usually
treated confidentially under Swiss-U.S. tax arrangements, he
said.  Julius Baer, which said last year that it exited its U.S.
cross-border private client business between 2009 and 2011,
informed some American clients last month that their accounts
meet the criteria of a U.S. request for data. The IRS is seeking
information on accounts “owned through a domiciliary company”
and held at any time between the beginning of 2002 and the end
of last year, the Zurich-based bank wrote in a letter obtained
by  Bloomberg News  and dated May 16.  More Indictments?  The banks under investigation, which includes  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HSBA) ’s Swiss private bank and another state-guaranteed regional
lender, Zuercher Kantonalbank, can use the existing legal
framework to respond to administrative assistance requests for
names of American clients, the Swiss government said on May 29.  The bill rejected yesterday would have allowed other Swiss
financial firms beyond the group under investigation to
cooperate by sending names of employees, descriptions of cross-border business operations and identifying third parties
including lawyers, trusts and financial intermediaries.  “A federal law would have been the best possibility for
creating legal certainty,” the Basel-based  Swiss Bankers
Association  said in an  e-mailed statement  late yesterday. “The
SBA expects the Federal Council to assume its responsibility to
do everything in its power to ensure that a legal framework is
created.”  ‘Incalculable’ Consequences  Failing to resolve the probes would have “incalculable”
consequences for the financial center and the entire Swiss
economy, the SBA said.  Swiss Finance Minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf has warned
lawmakers more banks may face indictments if the bill didn’t
pass. Widmer-Schlumpf may bypass Parliament by issuing a
government decree authorizing banks to cooperate, the minister
was cited as saying by Swiss public broadcaster SRF on June 18.  “Some people in Switzerland are trying to hold on to the
past strong value of secrecy no matter what,” said Warren Whitaker, a New York-based attorney and head of international
estate planning at Day Pitney LLC. “The U.S. could take
stronger steps. It could indict a lot of these banks and then
come back to make an agreement.”  The failure of the bill jeopardizes a program agreed
between the two governments dividing firms into four categories
based on the size of their American cross-border business and
allowing them to cooperate with the U.S. Banks would have 120
days to decide whether to participate and to announce into which
category they fall. They then have another 120 days to
individually negotiate with the  Justice Department .  “There are other political solutions to these problems
that don’t require the approval of the Swiss parliament,” said
Arno Endres, a banks analyst at Luzerner Kantonalbank AG in
Lucerne, Switzerland. “I’m quite sure that both Credit Suisse
and Julius Baer will come to a resolution with the U.S.
authorities, although these individual settlements could take a
little longer than the end of this year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net ;
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  