-- Criminal Group Illegally Took $24 Billion Out of Russia
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-06-19T15:31:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/criminal-web-illegally-took-23-6-billion-out-of-russia.html
A single Russian network of at least
1,173 sham companies is responsible for illegally channeling a
minimum of 760 billion rubles ($24 billion) out of the country,
outgoing central bank Chairman Sergey Ignatiev said.  Bank Rossii received a request from the Interior Ministry
last month for information on a number of companies implicated
in a criminal investigation into illicit financial operations,
Ignatiev said in a speech to lawmakers in Moscow today. The
regulator found “clear violations of tax and currency laws”
and sent a 230-page report to the ministry this week.  Ignatiev, 65, who steps down after more than a decade as
chairman June 24, said the issue of illicit outflows has
recently required more of his time than the economy or monetary
policy. Dubious transactions accounted for $38 billion of
 Russia ’s “abnormally high” $54 billion in net private capital
outflow last year, he said.  “I get the impression that this entire network of shell
companies is controlled by a single group,” Ignatiev said. An
investigation to uncover the people behind the group may require
“hundreds or even thousands” of requests to commercial banks,
as well as questioning those involved in the operations. He
reiterated calls for greater cooperation between law enforcement
and other agencies involved.  Capital Flight  The bulk of the operations was conducted between 2010 and
2012, though they date back to 2008, according to Ignatiev. The
investigation for the Interior Ministry didn’t look any further
than three transactions, meaning the number of firms involved in
the operations may be greater, he said.  Russia had net private  capital outflows  of $54.1 billion in
2012 and an estimated $25.8 billion in the first quarter of this
year, according to central bank data. Outflows continued in May
and were higher than expected, Ignatiev told reporters after the
speech, declining to elaborate.  May’s outflow was an estimated $8 billion, compared with
$3.5 billion to $4 billion in April, Deputy Economy Minister
 Andrei Klepach  said yesterday, Interfax reported.  The questionable transactions may involve the “avoidance
of tax and customs payments, theft of budget funds, bribes and
kickbacks to officials, money laundering, financing terrorism
and drug-related operations,” Ignatiev said. At least $13
billion more in operations through the current account bring
last year’s total of questionable outflows to $52 billion, he
said. That was above the bank’s first estimate of $49 billion in
February.  Most Opaque  Illicit capital outflows related to Russia’s shadow economy
may have been as much as $211.5 billion between 1994 and 2011,
according to Global Financial Integrity. Russia is “the most
opaque economy we have analyzed,” and the real figure may be
higher, the Washington-based group said in a report in February.  With  oil prices  remaining at current levels, an
“inevitable” slowdown in the outflows means the ruble is more
likely to appreciate than to weaken, Ignatiev said.  Finance Ministry plans to start buying foreign currency in
August for the Reserve Fund should have a “minimal effect” on
the ruble, and may even result in strengthening if the ministry
is drawing down funds and buying rubles to cover a deficit, he
told lawmakers.  The ruble weakened 0.6 percent to 32.19 against the dollar
as of 6:05 p.m. in Moscow. The Finance Ministry shelved an
auction of 15-year ruble bonds after failing to receive bids
within the targeted yield range before selling all 10 billion
rubles offered in new three-year notes.  Ignatiev, who agreed to stay on at Bank Rossii as an
adviser to his successor, Kremlin economic aide  Elvira Nabiullina , declined to comment on whether he would continue to
focus on illegal outflows in his new role.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  