-- Croatia Joining EU Means Coastal Windfall After War
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2013-06-19T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/croatia-joining-eu-means-coastal-windfall-after-war.html
If Austrian developer Helmut
Wiesmeyer’s car hadn’t broken down along a windswept beach on
 Croatia ’s  Istrian peninsula , he might not be poised to cash in
on the country’s European Union membership.  Stranded near the town of Rabac in 2007, Wiesmeyer spotted
a pair of dilapidated, communist-era hotels and “had a vision”
of building a modern resort. Now, with the former Yugoslav
republic set to join the EU on July 1, Wiesmeyer has remade the
site and is preparing to offer 52 seaside apartments designed
for foreign vacationers, with swimming pools, spas, a concierge
and a mortgage that offers a better rate than local banks’ from
 Austria ’s Allgemeine Sparkasse Oberoesterreich Bank AG.  “For many investors, Croatia used to be a beautiful place
but not a market for investment because they worried about the
security of ownership or legal problems,” Wiesmeyer, the owner
of  Istra-Fortuna d.o.o. , said by phone from his home in the
Austrian city of Linz. “That will now change.”  Croatia, whose beaches, vineyards and national parks have
made summer tourism a 6.8 billion-euro ($9.1 billion) business,
is counting on EU entry to lure visitors to come for more than a
week a year and spend their money there. Property sales could
give a boost to the economy after total lending fell 2.7 percent
last year. By linking with other European economies, the
government hopes to end four years of recession or economic
stagnation two decades after the Balkan civil wars destroyed
 Yugoslavia .  Istria, Dubrovnik  Residential-property sales in tourist regions like Istria
and  Dubrovnik  along the Adriatic coast rose by an average of
10.8 percent last year even as the sluggish economy caused
overall home sales to plunge 20 percent. That gave banks
including Vienna-based  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  the chance to win
more business, despite a drop in lending across Croatia.  “For buyers, it’s psychologically very important that
their holiday home is also in the EU,” Patrick Franolic, head
of the Croatian unit of Zagreb-based brokerage  Spiller Farmer
s.r.o. , said in an interview. “As foreign interest in second
homes in Croatia grows, banks will compete to attract these
buyers.”  Following Yugoslavia’s bloody breakup in the 1990s, Croatia
began marketing its 5,800-kilometer (3,600-mile) coastline,
including the chain of more than 1,000 islands, beyond the
traditional eastern European tourists to Austrians, Germans,
Britons and the French. Tourism typically makes up about 20
percent of the country’s economy.  Relaxed Regulations  As Croatia has moved closer to joining the EU, it gradually
eased the rules on foreign ownership of homes and other
properties. Since 2009, there have been no restrictions on EU
citizens.  Foreigners own about 40,000 mostly-residential properties
in Croatia, according to Ivan Stojevic, head of the real estate
arm of  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ’s  Privredna Banka Zagreb d.d. 
Croatians own about 200,000 second homes, the local unit of
research company GfK estimated earlier this year.  The EU’s debt crisis has prevented Croatia’s economy from
growing since 2008. That contributed to a plunge in the total
value of home sales to about 7.5 billion kuna ($1.4 billion) in
2012 from 25 billion kuna in 2008, central bank Vice Governor
Damir Odak said in May.  While total home sales fell by about 50 percent to 32,000
in 2012 from a peak of 66,000 in 2007, sales on the coast
declined less and are now showing signs of a recovery, Dubravko
Ranilovic, head of the Association of Realtors at the Croatian
Chamber of Commerce, said by phone.  Increasing Sales  In the two main tourist regions, the Istrian peninsula in
the northern Adriatic and Dubrovnik and its surroundings in the
south, home sales increased by 13 percent and 8.6 percent,
respectively, in 2012, according to a study by Ranilovic’s
 Kastel Zagreb d.o.o.  published last month.  Home sales in Zagreb, the capital, dropped 21 percent in
the same period. In eastern Croatia, where the country has a
border with Hungary and  Serbia , sales dipped 44 percent. The
estimates are based on the  Finance Ministry ’s data and its
preliminary figures for last year.  “We estimate that foreigners accounted for more than 50
percent of home purchases in tourist areas, outside major
population centers, over the past six years,” Ranilovic said.
The Istrian peninsula, home to tourist centers such as Porec,
Rovinj and Pula, “in particular is rebounding” he said.  The Tax Office assessed the number of foreign purchases at
about 15 percent of total home transactions in 2011.  German Buyers  Michael Grimm, a broker at  Engel & Voelkers ’ satellite
office on the Adriatic island of Rab off the northern coast of
Croatia, said inquiries from  Germany , where the brokerage is
based, rose about 30 percent in recent months, he said.  “The demand for second homes in western and northern
 Europe  is very big,” Grimm said by phone. “Why Croatia? It’s
much cheaper than  Italy  or  Spain , it is still unspoiled, and you
can reach it by car from Austria, Italy and southern Germany.”  A recovery in the  property market  will bring in more
foreign capital and help revive construction, transportation and
service industries, among those hurt most by the weakness of
Croatia’s economy. Foreign direct investment in 2012 plummeted
to almost a fifth of the $4.2 billion in 2008, according to the
central bank.  Steve Fagg was on vacation in Croatia almost a decade ago
when he saw a derelict beach house on Korcula, one of Croatia’s
large islands near Dubrovnik.  “It was love at first sight, but I bought it with the
knowledge that Croatia will be entering the European Union at
some point down the road,” Fagg said by phone from his London
home.  Luxury Villa  By mortgaging his property in  England , Fagg bought the
house in 2005, the year Croatia started EU membership talks, and
turned it into Villa Jade, a luxury rental property.  “It was a brave act, but it paid off,” said Fagg, who
last year bought a development plot on the same island. “EU
entry will be valuable across all industries, and property
prices will rise once the crisis is over.”  For now, the Croatian unit of Erste Group is the only major
bank operating in the country to offer mortgages to foreigners
interested in Croatian properties, with a program that started
in 2010.  The loan has an interest rate of 5.6 percentage points over
12-month Euribor and limits mortgages to 250,000 euros, said
Ilijana Jelec, head of the bank’s real estate arm in Zagreb.  More Competition  Alan White  of  Barclays Plc (BARC)  said his bank isn’t considering
loans with Croatian collateral because it doesn’t have any
outlets in the country. Tim Oliver Ambrosius, a spokesman of
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , declined to comment on the bank’s plans when
reached by phone in Berlin.  “There will be certain changes here, as the EU membership
will increase competitive pressures and foreign banks will
approach the Croatian market differently,” Jelec said by phone
from her office in Zagreb. “For such changes to happen, we need
clear regulations and we need people and institutions to have
absolute trust in deed books.”  Austrian investor Wiesmeyer said after years of red tape,
he’s in the final phases of construction at his Rabac resort,
after tearing down the two abandoned hotels and starting anew.
The complex will include swimming pools, spas and a concierge.
He has more than a dozen reservations for his high-end units and
the first residents are expected to move toward the end of 2014.  By then, the country will be in the EU and concerns about
the country’s violent past and sometimes slow trek to a free
market will have eased even more in the minds of prospective
buyers, Wiesmeyer said.  While struggling with the construction, Wiesmeyer lined up
Allgemeine Sparkasse to offer foreign buyers an interest rate of
around 3.6 percent, below comparable Croatian mortgages.  “Compared to the paperwork, getting an arrangement with
the bank was much easier,” Wiesmeyer said. “The project is
very good, and I’m an old customer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  