-- Cuomo Wins Agreement for Public Service to Run New York’s LIPA
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-06-19T20:43:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/cuomo-wins-agreement-for-public-service-to-run-new-york-s-lipa.html
New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo 
struck a deal with lawmakers for Public Service Enterprise Group
Inc. to take over the operations of the state-owned Long Island
Power Authority, which left thousands without power for weeks
after  Hurricane Sandy .  Under the agreement, which lawmakers said they’ll pass this
week, the authority would become a holding company for $7
billion of debt, with no day-to-day utility functions, Cuomo
said today. As much as half of what it owes would be refinanced.
The authority’s rates, among the nation’s highest, wouldn’t
change through 2015.  “LIPA has been dysfunctional for many years,” Cuomo said
today at a press briefing in Albany. “It really came to a head
with Hurricane Sandy.”  Mark Gross, a spokesman for LIPA, didn’t immediately return
a phone call and e-mail seeking comment. Lindsey Puliti, a
spokeswoman for  Public Service (PEG) , based in Newark, New Jersey, had
no immediate comment.  Sandy hit Oct. 29, blacking out 1 million authority
customers, or about 90 percent of those it served, as falling
trees downed transmission lines and flooding knocked out
substations. A week later, 200,000 remained without power.  Last month, Moody’s Investors Service cut its ratings on
authority debt backed by customer revenue one step to Baa1,
three levels above junk, with a negative outlook, suggesting
another reduction to come. Scrutiny following Sandy would make
it difficult for the agency to improve its finances and
operations, particularly if those actions would require rate
increases, Moody’s said in a statement.  Little Cushion  The authority has “little if any cushion for the
unforeseen events that seem to occur every year,” Moody’s said.  LIPA, which was established in 1985, owns Long Island’s
electric lines and hired London-based  National Grid Plc (NG/)  to
operate them. Under its divided management, the authority let
consultants guide spending and failed to replace aging poles or
trim trees, according to  Benjamin Lawsky , who led a state probe
into storm readiness.  Public Service has already agreed to take over the
authority’s operations Jan. 1. Under the accord Cuomo reached
with lawmakers, the company’s role would expand beyond
controlling capital and operating budgets, handling storm
preparedness and response as well as  call centers , computer
systems and  customer service . Public Service said in May that it
supported the governor’s plan.  Tax-exempt LIPA debt callable in nine years traded
yesterday at an average yield 1.95 percentage points above top-rated bonds, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That was down from
2.24 percent on June 12, the most in at least four months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany,  New York , at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  