-- Cuomo Wins Casino Deal in Upstate New York From Lawmakers
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-06-19T20:33:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/cuomo-wins-casino-deal-in-upstate-new-york-from-lawmakers.html
New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo 
reached a deal with lawmakers to license four Las Vegas-style
casinos to boost the upstate economy, he said in a statement
today. Voters will have the final say in November.  Under New York law, gambling measures must be approved in
two consecutive legislative sessions, followed by a referendum.
Lawmakers passed Cuomo’s plan last year and agreed to vote on it
again before the current session ends this week, according to
the statement.  The measure introduced yesterday would create two rounds of
casino licensing. The first calls for four facilities upstate.
Seven years after those licenses are sold, the second round
would permit another three casinos in locations to be
determined. Nassau and Suffolk counties on  Long Island  will also
each get a video-slot facility.  Cuomo said in the statement that the measure would prevent
neighboring states with legal gambling “take revenue that
should be going to our schools.”  Lawmakers also agreed to pass a Cuomo initiative to create
tax-free zones at State University of New York campuses,
including Binghamton, Oneonta and Buffalo, Cuomo said in a
statement e-mailed today. They also backed the governor’s call
for an advisory panel to help distressed local governments
reorganize and merge, a step meant to avoid state-imposed
control boards such as those that oversee Nassau County and
Buffalo, Cuomo said in a statement yesterday.  Reviving Economy  The casino and other measures are part of Cuomo’s plan to
revive the upstate economy. The cost of government in the region
climbed 47 percent from 2000 to 2010 as the population dropped
by 1.4 percent, Cuomo has said.  New York already has five full casinos operated by  Indian
tribes  under federal law. In addition, the state allows video-slot machines at nine race courses, including Aqueduct Racetrack
in  New York City ’s Queens borough and Yonkers Raceway about 18
miles (30 kilometers) north of  Manhattan .  The New York Gaming Association, which represents horse
tracks with slots, opposes an amendment to permit nontribal
casinos. The group wanted the state to let “racinos” expand to
Las Vegas-style casinos instead, James Featherstonhaugh, head of
the association, said June 11 in a statement.  Cuomo said in a radio interview broadcast June 17 that the
association’s influence creates a “tricky” situation.  Competitive Process  “These racinos are well-financed players,” Cuomo said.
“I’m not going to just give this franchise to anyone. It’s
going to go to the highest bidder with the best record.”  The casino deal Cuomo reached with lawmakers allows for as
many as four new video-slot facilities if voters knock down the
amendment.  To advance the proposal, Cuomo struck deals with tribal
groups, including the Oneidas in central  New York , the Mohawks
near the Canadian border and the Senecas in western New York,
guaranteeing an exclusivity zone around each of their casinos.
Those accords have left only three of six regions slated for
full gambling licenses: the Saratoga-Capital District, the
Hudson Valley-Catskills area and the Southern Tier near the
Pennsylvania state line.  Foxwoods Resort Casinos and Muss Development LLC, a New
York City company, agreed June 11 to build a resort on 500 acres
in Liberty, about 100 miles northwest of Manhattan in the
Catskills. The accord would still be subject to passage of the
constitutional amendment and state gambling commission approval.  No Thanks  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS) , the company controlled by
billionaire  Sheldon Adelson  that’s the largest U.S.-based casino
operator, has said it has no interest in expanding in the state
outside New York City.  The new casinos would share revenue with surrounding
counties while also generating jobs as they draw tourists from
New York City, Cuomo has said. All of that, along with the tax-free zones and the fiscal advisory panel, will help local
governments restrain taxes and maintain services, he has said.  Companies and employees who are new to the state and move
into the zones around the colleges won’t have to pay corporate,
income or property taxes for 10 years under today’s agreement.  The municipal advisory panel will help cut costs, partly by
using the state’s 2 percent cap on property-tax increases to
curb raises for police and firefighters, according to the
measure. The panel will also advise officials on how to combine
services across jurisdictions and provide grants to help.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany, New York,  at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  