-- Cyprus Capital Controls Hurt Economy, Commerce Minister Says
-- B y   G e o r g i o s   G e o r g i o u
-- 2013-06-19T10:14:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/cyprus-capital-controls-must-be-lifted-commerce-minister-says.html
The euro area’s first restrictions
on the movement of capital are doing more damage to Cyprus’s
economy than a one-time levy on savings and must be lifted as
soon as possible, the island’s Commerce, Tourism and Industry
Minister George Lakkotrypis said.  “We are now at a point where capital controls are hurting
more than the haircut itself,” Lakkotrypis said in a June 17
interview in Nicosia. “Small and medium-sized enterprises are
closing one after the other and the longer we have controls, the
longer we’ll have uncertainty.”  Cyprus agreed on March 25 to a 10 billion-euro ($13.4
billion) loan from the euro area and the  International Monetary
Fund  in return for measures including a levy on savings of more
than 100,000 euros at  Bank of Cyprus Plc  and the resolution of
second-biggest lender Cyprus Popular Bank Pcl. Those concessions
were demanded by creditors in a bid to shrink the country’s
banking industry and led to Cyprus imposing the first capital
controls in the euro area.  Banks Shut  Limits to cash withdrawals and transfer of funds abroad are
some of the restrictions in force since March 27 when Cyprus’s
government imposed the restrictions to prevent savers from
moving their funds out of the country’s banks. Banks reopened on
March 28 under the regime after a bank closure of almost two
weeks.  Capital controls  need to end so Cyprus can start “gaining
back our credibility in the outside world while the
recapitalization of Bank of Cyprus must be completed as soon as
possible,” Lakkotrypis said.  Total deposits in Cyprus’s banking system dropped 9.9
percent in April to 57.4 billion euros from 63.7 billion euros
in March reflecting the “bail-in” of Bank of Cyprus depositors
with savings of more than 100,000 euros, the  Central Bank of
Cyprus  said May 29. Of those accounts, 37.5 percent were
converted into equity while a further 22.5 percent are
temporarily blocked to ensure Bank of Cyprus meets the terms of
its recapitalization.  Foreign Firms  While Cyprus has lost its banking sector and credibility,
the country hasn’t seen a mass exit of foreign firms as it’s
still an attractive place to do business, Lakkotrypis said.  “Many foreign investors are telling us: what’s done is
done, there’s a haircut, we need to get it over and finished so
we can see what we have and carry on operating,” he said.  Cyprus will depend “heavily” over the next two to three
years on tourism for its economy to return to growth,
Lakkotrypis said. The plan to open casinos as well as new
marinas and golf courses will help make Cyprus a year-round
tourism destination and will boost tourism numbers, he said.  Lakkotrypis said that while Cyprus has struggled due to its
banking crisis, he said the government was keen to send the
message to tourists that “there is no problem with banking
transactions, credit cards and cheques are accepted”.  “While reservations to date for 2013 are seven percent
lower than a year ago, given the situation following the loan
deal, we are optimistic we can bounce back and close the gap if
we send the right messages to the outside world,” he said.
“We’ve no problem with rioting in the streets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Georgios Georgiou in Athens at 
 ggeorgiou5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maria Petrakis at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net  