-- Czech Ruling Party Proposes First Female Premier After Spy Case
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-06-19T17:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/czech-ruling-party-proposes-first-female-premier-after-spy-case.html
The Czech  Civic Democratic Party 
today proposed Parliament Speaker Miroslava Nemcova for prime
minister after a scandal of illegal spying and bribery
allegations brought down the Cabinet of Petr Necas.  Nemcova, 60, will need approval from two junior coalition
parties and President Milos Zeman to become the Czech Republic’s
first female prime minister. Zeman, who has the sole right to
name the next head of Cabinet, said today he won’t automatically
accept any nomination and early elections remain a possibility.  The parties that formed Necas’s Civic Democrat-led three-way coalition are maneuvering to prevent an early election
sought by the poll-leading opposition Social Democrats, who
pledged higher taxes and more state spending to bring the $217
billion  economy  out of recession.  “We were aware that we have to find a solution that will
bring stability to the government as soon as possible,” Martin Kuba, the Civic Democrats’ acting chairman, said at a news
conference in  Prague  broadcast by state television. Nemcova’s
nomination “is the best solution for calming the turbulent
political waters.”  Nemcova has been a member of the Civic Democratic Party
since 1992 and a lawmaker since 1998, according to her biography
on the party’s website. She worked as a clerk at the Czech
Statistics Office between 1972 and 1992, when she founded a
bookstore that she owned until 2007.  Nighttime Raids  The political turmoil erupted June 13 after nighttime
police raids resulted in the detention of eight people including
the head of premier’s office. Zeman, the  Czech Republic ’s first
directly elected head of state, became a leading figure in
shaping the future government after the scandal forced Necas
resign on June 17.  Zeman will meet the leaders of political parties starting
on June 21 to hash out the options, while Necas remains as
caretaker prime minister until his successor is named.  There are arguments for and against early elections and the
president has several options, which include accepting a
candidate who will demonstrate a majority support in the lower
house of parliament, according to Zeman.  The junior coalition partner TOP09 will debate Nemcova’s
nomination with the Civic Democrats, deputy Chairman Miroslav Kalousek said on the state television.  The current coalition, which controls 98 seats in the 200-member parliament, needs to secure a simple majority in the
assembly to install a new government. It has relied on the votes
of former coalition deputies who defected their parties to pass
legislation.  The three parties said their priority is to create a new
Cabinet together and keep the  Social Democrats  from forcing a
snap ballot.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  