-- Czech Ruling Party Seeks Country’s First Female Premier
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-06-20T08:26:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/czech-ruling-party-seeks-country-s-first-female-premier.html
The Czech Civic Democratic Party is
seeking majority support for Parliament Speaker Miroslava Nemcova, its candidate for premier, after a scandal over illegal
spying and bribery charges toppled the Cabinet of Petr Necas.  Nemcova, 60, needs approval from two junior coalition
parties, President Milos Zeman and the parliament’s confirmation
to become the Czech Republic’s first female prime minister.
Zeman, who has the right to name the next head of the Cabinet,
won’t automatically accept any nomination and early elections
remain a possibility, he said before the largest ruling party
announced its candidate.  The parties that formed Necas’s three-way coalition are
maneuvering to prevent an early election sought by the poll-leading opposition Social Democrats, who pledged higher taxes
and more state spending to bring the $217 billion  economy  out of
recession. The government has been hemorrhaging popularity as it
pursued  austerity  policies that hurt household spending while
helping cut borrowing costs to record lows.  “The decision wasn’t an easy one for me and I’m fully
aware of the critical, difficult situation of the Czech
Republic,” Nemcova told reporters in Prague late yesterday.
“It’s a first step. The positive fact is that we found a
solution quickly, that we were unanimous.”  Bookstore Owner  Nemcova has been a member of the Civic Democratic Party
since 1992 and a lawmaker since 1998, according to her biography
on the party’s website. She worked as an officer at the Czech
Statistics Office between 1972 and 1992, when she founded a
bookstore that she owned until 2007.  While the European Union’s second largest ex-communist
economy is enduring a record-long  contraction , Necas credits his
austerity policies with cutting the yield on the government’s
10-year koruna debt to an all-time low of 1.48 percent on May
17, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield has risen
13 basis points since the current crisis started, to 2.19
percent today, holding below comparable U.S. Treasuries.  Nemcova headed the lower house of parliament since Necas
took power in 2010 and backed all his major bills. If confirmed
as prime minister, she would follow  Slovenia ’s Alenka Bratusek
who rose to the premiership in March after a corruption probe
sank the Cabinet of her predecessor.  Bratusek also took power amid political uncertainty, with
an economy in recession and what the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development called a “severe banking crisis.”  Nighttime Raids  The Czech Republic’s political turmoil erupted June 13
after nighttime police raids resulted in the detention of eight
people including the head of the premier’s office. Zeman, the
Czech Republic’s first directly elected head of state, became a
leading figure in shaping the future government after the
scandal forced Necas resign on June 17.  Zeman will meet the leaders of political parties starting
June 21, while Necas remains as caretaker prime minister until
his successor is named.  There are arguments for and against early elections and the
president has several options, which include accepting a
candidate who will demonstrate a majority support in the lower
house of parliament, according to Zeman.  While junior coalition party TOP09 respects Nemcova as a
politician, it will debate her nomination with the Civic
Democrats as her departure from the parliamentary post would
make it difficult to replace her, Deputy Chairman Miroslav Kalousek said on state television yesterday.  Simple Majority  The current coalition, which controls 98 seats in the 200-member parliament, needs to secure a simple majority in the
assembly to install a new government. It has relied on the votes
of former coalition deputies who defected their parties to pass
legislation.  The Social Democrats, led by Bohuslav Sobotka, promised to
raise some income taxes to pay for higher spending the party
says is needed to revive the economy. Sobotka may need to rely
on the Communist Party to pass some bills if he doesn’t win an
outright majority in parliament or fails to find other coalition
partners.  Jana Nagyova, then the head of Necas’s office, was among
eight officials detained after police raids last week.  She is charged with abuse of power in ordering the illegal
surveillance of three people and is linked to a bribery case in
which prosecutors say former members of parliament were offered
jobs at state-controlled companies. She rejects the charges of
abuse of power and will appeal the court decision to keep her in
custody, her lawyer Eduard Bruna said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  