-- Czech President Zeman Says He May Reject Candidate for Premier
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-06-19T12:28:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/czech-president-zeman-says-he-may-reject-candidate-for-premier.html
Czech President Milos Zeman said he
may reject a ruling-coalition candidate for prime minister and
early elections are a possible solution to a political crisis
sparked by spying and bribery allegations.  Zeman, the Czech Republic’s first directly elected head of
state, became a leading figure in shaping the future government
after the scandal forced Premier Petr Necas to resign on June
17. Zeman will now pick the head of the Cabinet who will seek to
win parliamentary confirmation.  The parties that formed Necas’s three-way coalition are
trying to narrow the field of candidates. They are maneuvering
to prevent an early election sought by the poll-leading
opposition Social Democrats, who pledged higher taxes and more
state spending to bring the $217 billion  economy  out of
recession.  Necas’s Civic Democrats so far haven’t proposed anybody as
a candidate, “and I want to emphasize that it would be a
candidate, not the premier,” Zeman said at a news conference
broadcast by state television today. “It would be overly self-confident to think that someone who is a candidate will
automatically become premier.”  The political turmoil erupted June 13 after nighttime
police raids resulted in the detention of eight people including
Jana Nagyova, the head of Necas’s office.  She is charged with abuse of power in ordering the illegal
surveillance of three people and is linked to a bribery case in
which prosecutors say former members of parliament were offered
jobs at state-controlled companies. She rejects the charges of
abuse of power and will appeal the court decision to keep her in
custody, her lawyer Eduard Bruna said.  Zeman’s Options  Zeman will meet the leaders of political parties starting
on June 21 to hash out the options, while Necas remains as
caretaker prime minister until his successor is named.  There are arguments for and against early elections and the
president has several options, which include accepting a
candidate who will demonstrate a majority support in the lower
house of parliament, according to Zeman.  The current coalition, which controls 98 seats in the 200-member parliament, needs to secure a simple majority in the
assembly to install a new government. It has relied on the votes
of former coalition deputies who defected their parties to pass
legislation.  The three parties said their priority is to create a new
Cabinet together and keep the Social Democrats from forcing a
snap ballot.  Nagyova, who has worked with Necas since at least 2006, was
charged along with seven other people, including the former and
current heads of military intelligence. During the raids,
officers from the organized crime police unit seized as much as
150 million koruna ($7.8 million) in cash and some gold after
raiding 31 homes.  Prosecutors suspect that Nagyova ordered surveillance of
Necas’s wife and two other people, Bruna said by phone
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  