-- Dallas Home Prices Do Best Since Bubble: Riskless Return
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2013-06-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/dallas-home-prices-do-best-since-bubble-riskless-return.html
Dallas  has been the best-performing
of 20 major housing markets in the U.S. since the real estate
bubble burst in 2006, as job and population growth pushes up
demand.  The north Texas metropolitan area is the only one among the
cities in the S&P/Case-Shiller  index  with a gain, on an absolute
basis as well as adjusted for price swings, in the seven years
through March, according to the BLOOMBERG RISKLESS RETURN
RANKING based on the most recent data available.  “We didn’t have a bubble in the first place, so there was
no real collapse in prices,” said Mark Dotzour, chief economist
at the real estate center at Texas A&M University in College
Station,  Texas . “I expect we’ll be in this seller’s market
that’ll lead to higher appreciation than normal this year and
next.”  Dallas is the Case-Shiller index’s only city in Texas, a
state where the housing industry has flourished amid economic
growth, few environmental constraints and abundant land. The
Dallas-Fort Worth area added 104,900 non-farm jobs in April from
a year earlier, the most after the New York City area’s 160,000
jobs and Houston’s 111,200, according to the Bureau of Labor
Statistics.  “Underpinning the housing sector’s gains is a broad-based
expansion of the overall Texas economy,” according to a June 13
paper by D’Ann Petersen, a Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
economist, and Christina Daly, a research analyst. “Stronger-than-average employment growth and consistent in-migration
should continue boosting demand for homes and apartments.”  Rising Employment  Employment grew 4.2 percent in the Fort Worth-Arlington
area, and 3.2 percent in the Dallas-Plano-Irving area, the
Bureau of Labor Statistics said on May 29. Almost 141,000 people
moved to Texas from outside the state in the 12 months through
July 2012, the biggest net gain of any state, according to the
latest Census Bureau data available.  “People come here for a job,” Dotzour said. “That’s why
you move to Texas.”  Bloomberg’s risk-adjusted return, which isn’t annualized,
is calculated by dividing total return by volatility, or the
degree of price variation, giving a measure of income per unit
of risk. Higher volatility means the price of an asset can swing
dramatically in a short period, increasing the potential for
unexpected losses.  Dallas ranked first among the cities in the Case-Shiller
index with the highest home-price return of 0.6 percent and the
third-lowest price swings of 17.4, producing a risk-adjusted
return of less than 0.1 percent.  Price Declines  Dallas’s volatility trailed New York and  Charlotte , North
Carolina, which lagged behind peers in the ranking because
prices haven’t returned to pre-crisis record levels. New York-area prices are 25 percent below their March 2006 level with a
volatility of 14.1. Charlotte’s prices are 3.2 percent below the
level seven years ago, with a volatility of 15.5. Prices in the
North Carolina city are still 13 percent below their August 2007
peak.  The markets with the biggest declines are the Las Vegas
area, with a home-price return that tumbled 53 percent since
2006, and Miami, which fell 43 percent during the period.  Dallas home prices reached a record of $180,000 in March,
an increase of 4.6 percent from a year earlier, according to an
index by  Lender Processing Services Inc. (LPS) , a Jacksonville,
Florida-based real estate information service. Denver, where
average prices jumped 8.3 percent to $255,000, and Austin,
Texas, where prices rose 6.8 percent to $233,000, were the only
other cities in the 40-city index to set records in March.  Market Recovery  U.S. home prices are recovering from their worst crash
since the Great Depression as buyers rush to take advantage of
low  mortgage  rates, which helped push housing  affordability  in
January to its highest level in records dating to 1989,
according to the National Association of Realtors. Even as
prices rise at their fastest pace since 2006, the Case-Shiller
20-city index remains 28 percent below its peak.  Tight  inventories  are fueling bidding wars in the most
competitive markets as some homeowners delay selling while
waiting for prices to rise further, according to the Realtors
group. Dallas had a 2.7-month supply of homes for sale in April,
compared with a U.S. average of 5.1 months, according to the
Dallas Federal Reserve Bank report. A balanced market has a six-month supply of homes, according to the Realtors.  Builder Incentive  The tight supplies and rising prices are giving builders
incentive to ramp up construction, said David Brown, a Dallas-based analyst with homebuilding-consulting firm Metrostudy. In
the Dallas metro area, there were 18,800 housing starts in the
12 months through March, up from a post-bubble low of 13,500 in
2009 and down from a 2006 peak of 52,000, he said.  U.S.  housing starts  climbed 6.8 percent in May from April
to an annualized pace of 914,000, the Commerce Department
reported yesterday from  Washington . About half of the new
single-family permits and starts were in the South, which
includes Texas.  D.R. Horton Inc. (DHI) , based in Fort Worth and the largest U.S.
homebuilder by volume, had 2,400 Dallas-area starts in the 12
months through March, more than double the next-biggest builder
in the region, according to Brown.  Unlike in places such as  California , where developers face
long and costly approval processes, Dallas-area builders can
respond quickly to a changing market, Brown said. That’s reduced
volatility in both prices and inventory, he said.  “We didn’t have the supply constraints, which is why we
got up to 52,000 housing starts,” Brown said. “We also didn’t
have near the speculative-investor-type purchases. That’s
probably because we didn’t see the property values escalating 20
percent, 25 percent a year.”  Rental Homes  Wall Street investors in rental homes have begun buying
thousands of Texas properties, betting that growth in jobs and
population will help boost rents along with resale prices. While
foreclosures in Dallas weren’t as rampant as in cities such as
Atlanta or Phoenix, there are still properties available at
enough of a discount to attract capital, according to David Miller, chief executive officer of  Silver Bay Realty Trust
Corp. (SBY) , a real estate investment trust with more than 5,000
rental houses, including 95 in Dallas.  “Even in a market that wasn’t massively distressed, these
are big markets -- Dallas and Houston -- so even in ordinary
times there is a significant amount that comes out through
foreclosure auctions,” Miller said in an June 13 interview at
his New York office. “So you are still buying cheap to current
pricing.”  Avoiding Bubble  In the first quarter of this year, only 3.8 percent of
Texas mortgages were seriously  delinquent  -- meaning they were
at least 90 days late or in foreclosure -- compared with a U.S.
average of 6.4 percent, according to the Washington-based
Mortgage Bankers Association.  Dallas prices rose just 26 percent from January 2000 to
their peak in June 2006, a timeframe when the 20-city index more
than doubled in value. Dallas prices bottomed in February 2009
at 11 percent below their high. Miami was the biggest gainer
during the bubble, adding 181 percent from January 2000 to its
December 2006 peak. Prices in the  Florida  city are still 45
percent below that high.  Dallas avoided the bubble and bust in part because Texas
law restricted homeowners’ access to cash-out refinancing, which
allowed borrowers in other states to use their homes as piggy
banks and left many people owing more than their houses were
worth, Dotzour said.  Underwater Mortgages  About 7.2 percent of Texas homeowners with a mortgage were
 underwater  in the first quarter, compared with a U.S. average of
20 percent, according to a June 12 report by CoreLogic Inc.
 Nevada  had the highest share of mortgaged properties with
negative equity, at more than 45 percent, followed by Florida,
 Michigan ,  Arizona  and  Georgia .  Cities hit hardest by foreclosures have seen the biggest
recent price gains. Phoenix values are up 30 percent through
March since hitting a post-bubble low in September 2011, the
Case-Shiller index shows. Values in the Arizona capital remain
down 43 percent from their June 2006 peak.  One thing Texas and Arizona have in common is a speedy pace
for home foreclosures. In New York, the state with the longest
foreclosure timeline, borrowers were an average of 1,262 days
delinquent on their mortgages before losing their homes,
according to Lender Processing Services. The average was 808
days nationally, 572 days in Texas and 468 days in Arizona.  “It helps clear the market,” Dotzour said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in Los Angeles at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  