-- Danske CEO Questions Bond Boom Prophecies After FSA’s Order
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-06-19T08:00:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/danske-ceo-questions-bond-boom-prophecies-after-fsa-s-order-1-.html
The head of  Denmark ’s biggest bank
is questioning predictions that corporate bonds will replace
traditional bank lending even as his own regulator adds to the
cost of providing loans to businesses.  “I don’t think the bulk of corporate lending will move
into bonds in the next 10 to 20 years,”  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  Chief
Executive Officer Eivind Kolding said in an interview in his
office in Copenhagen. “In the very long term it may be so, but
things take time and the corporates are more ready than the
investors.”  Danske Bank is reaffirming its commitment to corporate
lending after the Financial Supervisory Authority ordered it to
adjust risk calculations in a step that will force the bank to
add about 100 billion kroner ($18 billion) to its risk-weighted
assets “over time,” according to a June 17 regulatory filing.  The move follows a campaign led by the  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision  to force lenders to review their risk models
as global regulators work to prevent bank losses from hobbling
economic growth. The Danish FSA’s risk-weight rule comes on top
of additional capital demands linked to Danske’s too-big-to-fail
status. Industry groups, including the Danish Chamber of
Commerce, have warned that the FSA risks choking business growth
by pushing measures it says restrict lending.  ‘Overly Harsh’  “We’ll shoot ourselves in the foot if we make overly harsh
implementation of financial rules or regulation,”  Bo Sandberg ,
business and tax policy chief at the chamber in Copenhagen, said
in an interview. “Companies already have substantial problems
obtaining credit.”  FSA Director General Ulrik Noedgaard said the risk-weight
order will align Danske’s calculations with those used by banks
elsewhere in  Europe  and the Nordic region.  “We think that any effect on the price of bank loans will
be modest,” Noedgaard said in a phone interview yesterday. “We
haven’t jumped on this conclusion: it’s something we and Danske
Bank have been in a dialog about for a long time. We would have
preferred if Danske Bank had moved on this themselves rather
than us having to issue an order.”  Danske said the FSA’s requirement won’t prompt it to change
its strategy as the lender keeps corporate lending as a key
plank in its business model. Still, additional  reserve
requirements  are pushing the financial industry toward areas
that place a smaller burden on balance sheets, Kolding said.  Shares in Danske Bank slipped 1.1 percent to 103.70 kroner
at 9:41 a.m. in Copenhagen, after declining 6.1 percent
yesterday. The stock has gained 29 percent in the past 12 months
compared with a 17 percent increase in the Copenhagen benchmark.  Cheaper Form  “There’s no doubt banks will work more on bond issuances
for the major clients,” he said. Danske last year helped
arrange a bond sale by the owner of the world’s largest
container line,  A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S. (MAERSKB)  This month, the bank
helped on a krone-bond sales by Denmark’s biggest trucking
company  DSV A/S (DSV)  and DLG Amba, the nation’s biggest producer of
 animal feed .  Yet for most Danish companies, bank loans will remain a
cheaper form of financing than bonds, Kolding said. Denmark’s
small and medium-sized enterprises employ about two-thirds of
the workforce and the government is struggling to find ways to
increase the flow of credit to businesses to help restore
economic growth. Lawmakers are now debating a proposal to pool
company bond financing to boost liquidity and attract more
investors.  Return Requirements  “Investors have high return requirements, so when we move
into the SME segment, we don’t always see yet that bonds make a
good proposition considering the high return requirements,”
Kolding said in the June 13 interview. The comments were
confirmed by e-mail yesterday. “The SMEs will still, to a very
large extent, rely on bank financing.”  Demand for high-yielding securities has been fueled by
unprecedented monetary easing from  Washington  to  Frankfurt  to
 Japan . European companies have sold a record 174 billion euros
($233 billion) of bonds in euros, pounds and dollars, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg this month.  Yet there are signs the extreme monetary accommodation
that’s driven investors into riskier asset classes may be scaled
back. In the U.S., Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has
signaled it may be time to consider tapering bond purchases,
sending borrowing costs on benchmark 10-year  U.S. debt  to 2.21
percent this week from as low as 1.63 percent in May.  “In general it’s right for central banks to keep  interest
rates  as low as they do and have the quantitative easing both in
Europe and the U.S.,” Kolding said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  