-- Dart Says Centrica Deal May Spur Talks for U.K. Shale Partner
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-06-19T01:24:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/dart-says-centrica-deal-may-spur-talks-for-u-k-shale-partner.html
Dart Energy Ltd. (DTE) , an explorer with
shale gas prospects in northwest  England , said  Centrica Plc (CNA) ’s
deal last week to acquire a 25 percent stake in a license in the
region may help accelerate its talks to find a partner.  Dart’s acreage in the U.K.’s Bowland Basin has attracted
“a lot of interest,” Chief Executive Officer John McGoldrick
said in a phone interview from  Singapore . Centrica, the largest
U.K. energy supplier, bought part of Cuadrilla Resources Ltd.’s
Bowland shale license for 40 million pounds ($63 million) and
will pay exploration costs of as much as 60 million pounds.  Dart, whose shares  have surged 37 percent  in Sydney since
the Centrica transaction was announced June 13, said earlier
this year it would look for a partner to develop the Bowland
acreage. Centrica’s deal may help spur investment in the nascent
U.K. shale industry after exploration was held up because
drilling by Cuadrilla caused two earth tremors in 2011.  “The Centrica deal has injected some urgency into the
situation, because a lot of these companies don’t react that
quickly,” McGoldrick said. “If you want to play, all of a
sudden the playground appears to be getting smaller.”  Cuadrilla has said its licenses may hold 200 trillion cubic
feet of gas. An extraction rate of 30 percent, the maximum seen
in U.S. shale fields, would be enough to increase U.K. reserves
more than eightfold. Dart says its Bowland shale acreage may
hold as much as 110 trillion cubic feet of gas.  “I’m pushing very hard to get something put together
shortly” on a partnership, McGoldrick said. “We’re pushing
ahead, and maybe this deal will help accelerate things.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  