-- Deadly Coronavirus Spreads Easily in Hospitals: Study
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-06-19T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/deadly-coronavirus-spreads-easily-in-hospitals-study.html
The new coronavirus that’s killed
almost two-thirds of the people it’s infected, mostly in Saudi
Arabia, spreads easily in hospitals, according to the first
detailed description of the outbreak since it started in
September.  A 56-year-old man with Middle East respiratory syndrome
coronavirus, or MERS-CoV, admitted to a hospital in Saudi
Arabia’s eastern province of  al-Ahsa (AADC)  in April, sparked a chain
of transmission that infected 22 others in four hospitals in an
eight-week period, according to the study, published today in
the New England Journal of Medicine.  A 55-year-old patient probably passed the virus to six
others who were receiving dialysis in the same ward at the same
time, confirming a theory that the outbreak involves so-called
super-spreaders who infect multiple people, a pattern also seen
in the SARS epidemic a decade ago.  “The rapid transmission and high attack rate in the
dialysis unit raises substantial concerns about the risk of
health care-associated transmission of this virus,” researchers
led by Ziad Memish, Saudi Arabia’s deputy minister of health,
wrote in the journal.  Most of the patients were men with an average age of 56,
Memish and colleagues wrote. Most had a fever and cough, and
about a third had vomiting or diarrhea. The median time from the
onset of symptoms to death was 11 days.  Virus’s Origin  Still, it’s not clear where the virus came from, whether
there was one introduction of the virus from outside the
hospital or more, or how the pathogen was transmitted between
patients, they said.  The nation’s health ministry was criticized today by the
European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control for not
disclosing more details about the outbreak. While the study
helps fill some gaps in knowledge, the information should have
been provided earlier, said Michael Osterholm, director of the
University of Minnesota’s Center for Infectious Disease Research
and Policy in  Minneapolis .  “This is the kind of information that we need to have on a
real-time basis,” Osterholm said by phone. “If this
information was being held for the purposes of publication, that
is unfortunate.”  Globally, MERS-CoV has sickened 64 people and killed 38
since September, 32 of which have been in Saudi Arabia,
 according  to the World Health Organization. The source of the
outbreak hasn’t been identified, and infections in other parts
of Saudi Arabia since since today’s study was concluded show
that transmission is continuing, Osterholm said.  “It’s a dot, and it takes two dots to make a line,”
Osterholm said. “If we keep getting more information, more
dots, we can talk about a trend.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net  