-- Deutsche Bank Says China Links Give Germany Edge in Yuan
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-06-19T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/deutsche-bank-says-china-links-give-germany-edge-in-yuan.html
Germany’s commercial links to China
give Frankfurt an advantage over other financial centers
competing to become  yuan  trading hubs, said  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  co-Chief Executive Officer  Juergen Fitschen .  “We have an advantage in Frankfurt, in Germany: We’re by
far China’s biggest trading partner in Europe,” Fitschen said
in the city yesterday. “The question is if German clients will
be ready to use this flexibility and win a competitive edge” by
making and receiving more payments in yuan.  Frankfurt, the euro area’s financial capital and home to
the  European Central Bank , is facing off with Paris, Zurich and
London in a bid to win Chinese business for its country’s banks
and exporters. China’s push for greater use of the yuan outside
the mainland, which started in 2010, and its joining the euro
and dollar as a reserve currency will anchor it more firmly in
global monetary coordination, Fitschen told reporters.  “We’re preparing ourselves, not just in Frankfurt but also
in London and Singapore,” he said. “The largest share of
renminbi-denominated trading volumes will be in Asia.”  The yuan is a denomination of China’s currency the
 renminbi .  Capital market transactions in yuan won’t necessarily take
place in Frankfurt and institutional investors are generally
based in London, said Fitschen, 64, who is also president of the
BdB Association of German Banks lobby group.  While the volume of transactions factored in yuan may
double from current levels “very quickly,” investors will
witness an “explosion” if China introduces the trading of oil
and other commodities in its currency, Fitschen said.  “It’s a good development that, given China’s economic
power, the renminbi is established as a third reserve
currency,” Fitschen said. “It may take 10 to 15 years for all
of us to feel like we got there, but it can’t be stopped.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in  Frankfurt  at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  