-- Deutsche Post Automates Delivery Sites as Parcels Top 1 Billion
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-06-19T13:34:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/deutsche-post-automates-delivery-sites-as-parcels-top-1-billion.html
Deutsche Post AG (DPW) , Europe’s largest
mail service, is adding parcel centers and delivery sites with
automation equipment to speed dispatching as a boom in online
shopping may lift deliveries to more than 1 billion this year.  “The e-commerce boom means customers want convenience
services, like same-day deliveries,” Uwe Brinks, the company’s
chief production officer, said in an interview today in
Obertshausen,  Germany  at the inauguration of its largest parcel
center. “In order to achieve that, we need mechanical sorting
equipment, and we need to move fast.”  Deutsche Post is pushing online shopping partly to help
offset declining demand for traditional  mail . While shoppers in
Europe’s biggest economy are lagging behind the U.K. and some
U.S. locations in Internet shopping, more web-based ordering
means demand for the service is likely to grow by as much as 7
percent a year, according to the company’s estimates.  The Bonn, Germany-based company will spend a “double-digit” million euro amount on the Obertshausen center, the
largest single investment in a budget of 750 million euros ($1
billion) to upgrade its delivery network, Brinks said. At the
size of five soccer fields and able to handle 50,000 units per
hour, the facility is the largest in Europe and has about double
the capacity of the company’s 33 existing centers.  Deutsche Post will also build 60 new smaller delivery sites
with automation equipment installed this year and next,
expanding its network of 200 sites. With the majority of
standard parcels handled in the morning, these locations will
enable deliveries for goods on the evening of the same day
they’re ordered, a service currently being tested in the Cologne
region.  Brinks said the company may handle between 1.5 billion and
2 billion units per year by 2022, as online sales of fast-moving
consumer good such as food and toiletry articles are still in
its infancy in the country. The company’s market share in
parcels may climb to 42 percent this year from about 41 percent.  “We are looking for new sites, and we are looking at
expanding our existing sites,” Brinks said. “Online shopping
has enormous potential.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  