-- Dollar-Funding Pressures Ease, Money-Market Indicators Show
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-06-19T13:22:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/dollar-funding-pressures-ease-money-market-indicators-show.html
Money-market forward indicators
signaled short-term dollar funding conditions eased.  Three-month London interbank offered rate, or Libor, fell
 to  0.27175 percent, the lowest since Aug. 5, 2011, and from
0.27225 percent yesterday, according to the British Bankers’
Association. The Libor-OIS spread, a gauge of banks’ reluctance
to lend, narrowed to 15.9 basis points from 16.1 basis points.  Overnight index swaps, or OIS, give traders predictions on
what the Federal Reserve’s effective funds rate will average for
the term of the swap. The central bank’s target rate is set in a
range of zero to 0.25 percent.  Predictions in the forward market for Libor-OIS, known as
the FRA/OIS spread, held at 19.3 basis points, according to the
second rolling three month contracts.  The difference between the two-year swap rate and the
comparable-maturity Treasury note yield, known as the swap
spread, was little changed at 16 basis points. The gap is a
gauge of investors’ perceptions of U.S. banking-sector credit
risk as swap rates are derived from expectations for dollar
Libor.  Swap rates serve as benchmarks for investors in many types
of debt, including mortgage-backed and auto-loan securities.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S.  commercial paper 
rose $3.9 billion to $1.0345 trillion in the week ended June 12,
according to Fed data.  Euribor-OIS Spread  The cost for European banks to convert euro-denominated
payment streams into dollars-based funding via the cross
currency swaps market increased after reaching in the past two
days the least since May 2011. The three-month cross-currency
basis swap was 12.1 basis points below Euribor, compared with
11.75 basis points at the end of the last two days.  Foreign-exchange swaps are typically for periods of less
than a year, while cross-currency basis swaps usually range from
one to 30 years. The latter are agreements in which a person
borrows in one currency and simultaneously lends in a different
currency. The trade involves the exchange of two different
floating-rate payments, each denominated in a different currency
and based on a different index.  The Euribor-OIS spread, the difference between the euro
interbank offered rate and overnight indexed swaps edged higher.
The measure of banks’ reluctance to lend to one another was 12.1
basis points compared with 11.6 basis points.  Repo Rates  The overnight Treasury general collateral repurchase
agreement rate opened today at 0.09 percent, according to ICAP
Plc, the world’s largest inter-dealer broker.  The  average rate  for borrowing and lending Treasuries for
one day in the repo market was 0.106 percent yesterday,
according to a GCF repo index provided on a one-day lag by the
Depository Trust & Clearing Corp.  Securities dealers use repos to finance holdings and
increase leverage. Securities that can be borrowed at interest
rates close to the Fed’s target rate are called general
collateral. Those in highest demand have lower rates and are
called “special.”  The  average rate  for overnight federal funds, known as the
fed effective rate, was 0.12 percent yesterday. The rate opened
today at 0.09 percent. The effective rate is a volume-weighted
average of trades between major brokers for overnight funds,
reported on a day lag by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 liedtka@bloomberg.net  