-- Dollar Surges as Bernanke Sparks Carry Trade Plunge; Rupee Falls
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-06-20T21:22:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/dollar-remains-higher-before-u-s-housing-manufacturing-reports.html
The dollar surged against
counterparts worldwide ranging from Australia’s currency to
Turkey’s lira as the  Federal Reserve ’s signal it is getting
closer to reducing monetary stimulus pushed volatility to the
highest in a year and spurred losses in carry trades.  The U.S. currency strengthened versus a majority of its 16-most-traded peers and Deutsche Bank AG’s G10 FX Carry Basket
index fell to the lowest level since October as Fed Chairman Ben
S. Bernanke yesterday outlined the case for reduced monetary
stimulus this year if the  U.S. economy  keeps improving.  India  is
among leaders for carry losses among the 31 most-traded
currencies versus the dollar this month with a 4.8 percent
decline while its central bank likely intervened to protect the
rupee.  “The market is in a shoot first and ask questions later
kind of a mode, and you see massive dollar strength, unwind of
carry trades,”  Eric Stein , a portfolio manager at  Eaton Vance
Corp. (EV)  who helps oversee about $17.5 billion of fixed-income
assets in  Boston , said in a telephone interview. “The Fed has
pulled forward volatility.”  The dollar rose 0.6 percent to $1.3220 per euro at 5 p.m.
in  New York , reaching the biggest gain since May 9. The U.S.
currency advanced 0.9 percent to 97.28 per yen.  Japan ’s currency
fell 0.3 percent to 128.61 per euro.  Dollar Measure  The Dollar Index, which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to monitor the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trade partners, gained 0.6 percent to 81.779, reaching its
strongest level since June 6. The gauge may climb to 85.7 by the
end of the year, according to the median forecast of economists
and strategists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The JPMorgan Global FX Volatility Index increased to 11.51
percent, the highest level since June 7, 2012. The average in
the past year is 8.66 percent.  Yields on benchmark Treasuries touched 2.47 percent, the
highest since August 2011. Treasuries due in  10 years  yielded
1.07 percentage points less than similar-maturity Australian
debt yesterday, almost the narrowest spread since November 2008.
U.S. bonds yielded 1.54 percentage points more than Japanese
debt yesterday, the biggest gap since August 2011.  “The leveraged carry trades have been taken to the
woodshed pretty aggressively over the last little while,”  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank,
said by phone from Toronto. “As rates rise in the U.S. that
makes funding for some of these carry trades into  emerging
markets  and some of the high yielding G-10 markets that much
more expensive to carry.”  Carry Out  Deutsche Bank’s G10 FX Carry Basket index gained 6.8
percent in 2012 after declining the previous two years as weak
economic data in the U.S., Japan and the euro region led to
speculation that central banks would keep rates low and inject
money to boost growth. With those conditions waning, volatility
has increased, which is negative for the carry trade because it
depends on predictable interest rates across jurisdictions.  India’s rupee dropped 1.5 percent to 59.5750 per dollar
after depreciating to a record 59.98. South Korea’s won declined
to as low as 1,146.55 per dollar, the weakest since July 26,
before closing 1.3 percent lower at 1,145.63. The Turkish lira
dropped to an all-time low versus the dollar, weakening as much
as 1.9 percent to 1.9373.  Chile’s peso weakened 2.9 percent to 514.08 against the
greenback and Poland’s zloty fell 1.9 percent to 3.2872.  Fed Shift  “QE3 is now likely to end in the middle of next year so
we’ve had an initial rise in the dollar,” said  Gavin Friend , a
currency strategist at National Australia Bank Ltd. in  London ,
referring to quantitative easing, or QE. “People are reading
this as the end the cheap money that’s gone into emerging
markets from the U.S. and Europe. If today’s U.S. data is
reasonable, the dollar will continue to rally against currencies
like the Aussie in particular.”  More Americans than forecast filed applications for
 unemployment benefits  last week, showing progress on reducing
joblessness remains uneven amid slower growth this quarter.  Australia’s dollar dropped for a fifth day versus the
greenback amid the prospect of reduced Fed stimulus and after
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said the preliminary
reading of their  Purchasing Managers ’ Index for China’s
manufacturing was at 48.3 in June, below the 49.1 estimated by
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Aussie Forces  “The link between the China growth story and the Aussie
dollar remains crucial,” said Michael Judge, a dealer at
OZForex Pty Ltd. in Sydney. “We all know the only way  interest
rates  are heading in this country at the moment is south, and
obviously weakening China growth doesn’t help that prognosis.”  UBS AG strategists said in a report they lowered their
forecast for the Aussie to 90 U.S. cents in one to three months,
from 95.  The Aussie slid 1.1 percent to 91.97 U.S. cents after
dropping to the weakest since Sept. 8, 2010. The  New Zealand
dollar  fell 1.8 percent to 77.57 cents after reaching the lowest
since June 12, 2012.  The Federal Open Market Committee yesterday left the
monthly pace of bond purchases at $85 billion, saying “downside
risks to the outlook for the economy and the labor market” have
diminished. Policy makers raised their growth forecasts for next
year to a range of 3 percent to 3.5 percent and reduced their
outlook for unemployment to as low as 6.5 percent.  “If the incoming data are broadly consistent with this
forecast, the committee currently anticipates that it would be
appropriate to moderate the pace of purchases later this year,”
Bernanke said in a press conference in  Washington . If later
reports meet the Fed’s expectations, “we will continue to
reduce the pace of purchases in measured steps through the first
half of next year, ending purchases around mid-year.”  Option Activity  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $53 billion, compared with $30.6 billion yesterday,
according to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust
Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on
the dollar-yen  exchange rate  was $11.2 billion, the largest
share of trades at 21 percent. Dollar-yuan options were the
second most actively traded, at $7.5 billion, or 14 percent.  Dollar-yen options trading was 1.1 percent less than the
average for the past five Thursdays at a similar time in the
day. U.S. dollar-yuan options trading was 90 percent more than
average.  Norway’s currency declined the most since 2011 against the
dollar. The central bank kept its benchmark rate at 1.5 percent
at its meeting today, as forecast by 21 of the 22 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. The central bank predicted the key rate
would be 1.38 percent in the fourth quarter of this year, versus
an earlier forecast of 1.45 percent.  The krone slumped 3.3 percent to 7.9296 per euro, reaching
the biggest one-day drop since December 2008. It slid to the
weakest since May 2011.  “It’s partially the QE trade and risk getting hit across
the board,” said Brad Bechtel, managing director at Faros
Trading LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , via e-mail. “The krone
had been a favorite long for many months and the position is
still unwinding.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  