-- Dollar Gains Most in 2 Months as Bernanke Signals Bond-Buy Taper
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-06-19T21:12:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/dollar-gains-as-fed-s-reduced-risks-view-adds-taper-speculation.html
The dollar rallied the most in two
months versus the euro as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  said the central bank could reduce its bond-buying this
year and end it in 2014 if economic improvement continues.  The U.S. currency gained versus a majority of its 16 most-traded peers as Fed policy makers will keep buying bonds at a
pace of $85 billion a month for now. They also said risks to the
economy have decreased and lowered forecasts for the
 unemployment  and inflation rates this year.  Europe ’s 17-nation
currency had reached almost its highest level against the dollar
since February and the yen rallied earlier today while  Sweden ’s
krona touched a two-month high versus the dollar.  “I think the  U.S. dollar  could benefit in the near-term
versus euro and Japanese yen because expectations of tapering
likely brought forward,” said Brian Kim, a currency strategist
at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut . I “was surprised we got that much
clarity from Bernanke regarding exit strategy, asset purchase
adjustments,” he said.  The dollar strengthened 0.7 percent versus the euro to
$1.3295 at 5:04 p.m. in  New York , after rising the most on a
closing basis since April 17. The U.S. currency advanced 1.2
percent to 96.45 yen. The shared currency increased 0.4 percent
to 128.22 per yen.  Mexico ’s peso was the biggest loser versus the dollar among
major currencies, dropping 2.7 percent to 13.2452 per dollar.
 Australia ’s dollar lost 2 percent to 92.95 U.S. cents while the
pound weakened 1 percent to $1.5484.  FOMC Policy  “The committee sees downside the risks to the outlook for
the economy and the labor market as having diminished since the
fall,” the  Federal Open Market Committee  said today at the
conclusion of a two-day meeting in  Washington . It repeated that
it’s prepared to increase or reduce the pace of purchases
depending on the outlook for the job market and inflation.  “If the incoming data are broadly consistent with this
forecast, the committee currently anticipates that it would be
appropriate to moderate the pace of purchases later this year,”
Bernanke said today in a press conference in Washington. “If
the subsequent data remain broadly aligned with our current
expectations for the economy, we will continue to reduce the
pace of purchases in measured steps through the first half of
next year, ending purchases around mid-year.”  The central bank has kept the benchmark target rate for
overnight loans between banks at zero to 0.25 percent since 2008
to support the economy.  Dollar Benefits  “The dollar is stronger, and generally that would be
consistent with expectations of tapering,” said Eric Viloria,
senior currency strategist for Gain Capital Group LLC in New
York, in a phone interview. “It looks like they’re expecting a
better outlook for the labor market, although inflation is
expected to remain weak.”  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $28 billion, compared with $24.1 billion yesterday,
according to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust
Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on
the dollar-yuan  exchange rate  was $9.2 billion, the largest
share of trades at 32 percent. Dollar-yen options were the
second most actively traded, at $5.9 billion, or 21 percent.  Dollar-yuan options trading was 194 percent more than the
average for the past five Wednesdays at a similar time in the
day. U.S. dollar-yen options trading was 47 percent less than
average.  The Dollar Index, which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to monitor the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trade partners, rose 0.8 percent to 81.319, touching the
strongest level since June 10.  Yen Strength  The yen has strengthened 6 percent in the past month, the
best performer among 10 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro rose 2.2 percent, while
the dollar fell 1.5 percent.  Japan’s currency “needs to close and clear stops above 97
for” the dollar rally to continue, said Fabian Eliasson, head
of U.S. currency sales in new York at  Mizuho Financial Group
Inc. (8411)   South Africa ’s currency weakened against the dollar after
earlier rallying. The country’s inflation slowed for the first
time in five months, while the current account deficit
unexpectedly shrank, improving the outlook for Africa’s largest
economy. The rand fell 1.9 percent to 10.1847 per dollar after
earlier strengthening to 9.9079.  The JPMorgan Global FX Volatility Index was at 10.78
percent. It climbed to a one-year high of 11.43 percent on June
13, while the average for the past 12 months is 8.65 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  