-- The Capitalist’s Case for a $15 Minimum Wage
-- B y   N i c k   H a n a u e r
-- 2013-06-19T22:50:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/the-capitalist-s-case-for-a-15-minimum-wage.html
The fundamental law of capitalism is
that if workers have no money, businesses have no customers.
That’s why the extreme, and widening, wealth gap in our economy
presents not just a moral challenge, but an economic one, too.
In a capitalist system, rising  inequality  creates a death spiral
of falling demand that ultimately takes everyone down.  Low-wage jobs are fast replacing middle-class ones in the
 U.S. economy . Sixty percent of the jobs lost in the last
recession were middle-income, while 59 percent of the new
positions during the past two years of recovery were in low-wage
industries that continue to expand such as retail, food
services, cleaning and health-care support. By 2020, 48 percent
of jobs will be in those service sectors.  Policy makers debate incremental changes for arresting this
vicious cycle. But perhaps the most powerful and elegant
antidote is sitting right before us: a spike in the federal
 minimum wage  to $15 an hour.  True, that sounds like a lot. When President  Barack Obama 
called in February for an increase to $9 an hour from $7.25, he
was accused of being a dangerous redistributionist. Yet consider
this: If the minimum wage had simply tracked U.S. productivity
gains since 1968, it would be $21.72 an hour -- three times what
it is now.  Cultivating Consumers  Traditionally, arguments for big minimum-wage increases
come from labor unions and advocates for the poor. I make the
case as a businessman and entrepreneur who sees our millions of
low-paid workers as customers to be cultivated and not as costs
to be cut.  Here’s a bottom-line example: My investment portfolio
includes Pacific Coast Feather Co., one of the largest U.S.
manufacturers of bed pillows. Like many other manufacturers,
pillow-makers are struggling because of weak demand. The problem
comes down to this: My annual earnings equal about 1,000 times
the U.S. median wage, but I don’t consume 1,000 times more
pillows than the average American. Even the richest among us
only need one or two to rest their heads at night.  An economy such as ours that increasingly concentrates
wealth in the top 1 percent, and where most workers must rely on
stagnant or falling wages, isn’t a place to build much of a
pillow business, or any other business for that matter.  Raising the  minimum wage  to $15 an hour would inject about
$450 billion into the economy each year. That would give more
purchasing power to millions of poor and lower-middle-class
Americans, and would stimulate buying, production and hiring.  Studies by the  Economic Policy Institute  show that a $15
minimum wage would directly affect 51 million workers and
indirectly benefit an additional 30 million. That’s 81 million
people, or about 64 percent of the workforce, and their families
who would be more able to buy cars, clothing and food from our
nation’s businesses.  This virtuous cycle effect is described in the research of
economists David Card and Alan Krueger (the current chairman of
the White House Council of Economic Advisers) showing that,
contrary to conventional economic orthodoxy, increases in the
minimum wage increase employment. In 60 percent of the states
that raised the minimum wage during periods of high
 unemployment , job growth was faster than the national average.  Some business people oppose an increase in the minimum wage
as needless government interference in the workings of the
market. In fact, a big increase would substantially reduce
government intervention and dependency on public assistance
programs.  Federal Benefits  No one earning the current minimum wage of about $15,000
per year can aspire to live decently, much less raise a family.
As a result, almost all workers subsisting on those low earnings
need panoply of taxpayer-supported benefits, including the
earned income tax credit,  food stamps , Medicaid or housing
subsidies. According to the  Congressional Budget Office , the
federal government spent $316 billion on programs designed to
help the poor in 2012.  That means the current $7.25 minimum wage forces taxpayers
to subsidize  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and other large employers,
effectively socializing their labor costs. This is great for
Wal-Mart and its shareholders, but terrible for America. It is
both unjust and inefficient.  A higher minimum wage would also make low-income families
less dependent on government programs: The CBO report shows that
the  federal government  gives about $8,800 in annual assistance
to the lowest-income households but only $4,000 to households
earning $35,500, which would be about the level of earnings of a
worker making $15 an hour.  An objection to a significant wage increase is that it
would force employers to shed workers. Yet the evidence points
the other way: Workers earn more and spend more, increasing
demand and helping businesses grow.  Critics of raising the minimum wage also say it will lead
to more outsourcing and job loss. Yet virtually all of these
low-wage jobs are service jobs that can neither be outsourced
nor automated.  Raising the earnings of all American workers would provide
all businesses with more customers with more to spend. Seeing
the economy as  Henry Ford  did would redirect our country toward
a high-growth future that works for all.  (Nick Hanauer is a founder of Second Avenue Partners, a
venture capital company in  Seattle  specializing in early-stage
startups and emerging technology. He has founded or financed
dozens of companies, including aQuantive Inc. and Amazon.com,
and is the co-author of two books, “The True Patriot” and
“The Gardens of Democracy.”)  To contact the writer of this article:
Nick Hanauer at  Nick@secondave.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 