-- Health Exchanges Behind Schedule Still May Be Affordable
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2013-06-19T18:25:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/health-law-premiums-avoiding-worst-case-predictions.html
The price for health coverage bought
through the Affordable Care Act’s online exchanges appears to be
cheaper than some of the most dire predictions. That’s assuming
the U.S. government can get the new marketplaces ready in time.  Proposed monthly premiums in nine states for the benchmark
level of medical coverage are less than congressional estimates,
according to a  study  today from Avalere Health, a Washington-based consulting company. The analysis is muted by a Government
Accountability Office  report  also released today that shows
computer systems for the insurance marketplaces may not be ready
on time and training for the people who will assist consumers is
behind schedule.  “Much progress has been made, but much remains to be
accomplished within a relatively short amount of time,” the
GAO, the nonpartisan investigative arm of Congress, said.  Exchanges that are supposed to start enrolling 7 million
customers Oct. 1 for subsidized private plans are the
centerpiece of the 2010 health law’s efforts to expand coverage
for the uninsured. While the cost to consumers appears to be
avoiding the premium “rate shock” predicted by  Aetna Inc. (AET) 
Chief Executive Officer Mark Bertolini, the Obama
administration’s workload for creating the marketplaces has
swelled beyond what was anticipated.  “This law has been unpopular and unwieldy every step of
the way,” Representative  Darrell Issa , a California Republican
who heads the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee,
said in a statement. “We are seeing a rollout marred by missed
deadlines and incomplete programs.”  Rate Shock  Bertolini, who runs the third-largest U.S. health insurer
by market value, said in December that premiums may as much as
double for some small businesses and individual buyers when the
law’s major provisions start in 2014. His prediction, which
cited health-law policies that mandate better benefits and
prohibit insurers from refusing to cover the sick, is at odds
with Congressional Budget Office estimates and with today’s
report from Avalere, which show more moderate increases.  Monthly premiums in nine states that have reported rates
vary from $205 in  Oregon  to $413 in  Vermont , before government
assistance is included, Avalere’s report shows.  “It doesn’t completely rebuke rate shock but what it says
is these competitive marketplaces are working and the plans are
taking it seriously,”  Dan Mendelson , the CEO of Avalere, said
in a telephone interview.  Young, healthy people who now have insurance may see their
premiums go up though the cost increase may be mitigated by the
subsidies, for which about two-thirds of people under the age of
30 are expected to be eligible, Avalere said in an earlier
report on June 6.  Republican Opposition  The reported premiums are the prices customers can expect
to pay for plans that go on sale Oct. 1 and take effect Jan. 1,
2014. The CBO’s estimate is for premiums in 2016. Avalere said
rates won’t rise dramatically by then, partly because large rate
increases are subject to government review.  The budget office raised questions about whether the
exchanges will be ready on time. The CBO report, requested by
three Republican lawmakers who have been critical of the
Affordable Care Act, showed the government has fallen behind on
testing computer systems and other milestones that should have
been reached ahead of the Oct. 1 rollout.  While the law envisioned most states building their own
versions of the marketplaces, all but 16 have balked at doing
the work, instead leaving it to the federal government. The
Obama administration’s heavier workload has been compounded by a
scarcity of resources, as congressional Republicans have blocked
requests for money to build federal exchanges.  Small Businesses  In a response attached to the GAO report, the Obama
administration cited progress made toward finishing the
exchanges, including accepting applications from insurers who
want to sell on the marketplaces and awarding grants and
contracts for consumer-assistance programs.  The administration said it’s “extremely confident that on
Oct. 1 the marketplace will open on schedule and millions of
Americans will have access to affordable quality health
insurance.”  In a second  report  also released today, the GAO found mixed
success on creating exchanges meant to serve small employers.
Seventeen states and  Washington , D.C., are building such markets
on their own and the agency said they had made “varying degrees
of progress” by the end of March.  As of March 31, states still needed to complete 85 percent
of key activities required for those exchanges, on average, the
GAO said. States may have completed some of the steps since
then, according to the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  