-- Heat Forecast Next Week for Large U.S., Canadian Cities
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-06-19T11:07:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/heat-forecast-next-week-for-large-u-s-canadian-cities.html
Most of the U.S. and southern  Canada 
will start next week with higher-than-normal temperatures,
including some of the largest cities in both countries, said
Matt Rogers, president of Commodity Weather Group LLC.  From California to the U.S. Northeast, including Los
Angeles and New York City, Rogers forecasts temperatures will
reach 3 degrees Fahrenheit (1.7 Celsius) above normal from June
24 to June 28. An area around the Great Lakes that takes in
 Chicago ,  Detroit  and Toronto may be 5 degrees higher.  “The models show decent agreement on next week’s 6- to 10-day range when we see a burst of heat early in the week and then
a pullback later in the week with a cool front,” Rogers, in
Bethesda,  Maryland , wrote in a note to clients. “Temperature
and humidity levels should be about the same as recent heat
events.”  Some of the highest temperatures are expected to be over
the Rocky Mountains and central Great Plains.  Above-average warmth in large population areas of the East
and Midwest can spur natural gas demand as more people turn to
air conditioners to keep cool. Power plants will account for 32
percent of U.S. gas consumption this year, Energy Information
Administration data show.  Rogers predicts the heat will pull back from the U.S. East
and Gulf coasts from June 29 to July 3 as temperatures return to
seasonal levels there.  The normal average reading for June 26 in  New York  City is
about 75 degrees, according to  MDA Weather Services  in
Gaithersburg, Maryland. In  Boston , it’s 71; in Chicago, 73; in
Houston, 84; in St. Louis, 79; and in Burbank, California, 72.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  