-- Heat Rally Past Spurs in Overtime to Force Game 7 in NBA Finals
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-06-19T05:18:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/heat-rally-past-spurs-in-overtime-to-force-game-7-in-nba-finals.html
LeBron James  and the  Miami Heat 
forced a decisive Game 7 in the National Basketball Association
Finals, twice rallying in the fourth quarter before beating the
 San Antonio  Spurs 103-100 in overtime.  James led the Heat with 32 points, including 18 in the
fourth quarter and overtime last night in Miami to prevent the
Spurs from claiming a fifth NBA title in the past 15 seasons.  “We live to see another day,” said James, who added 10
rebounds and 11 assists.  The defending champion Heat will host Game 7 tomorrow after
the teams alternated wins during the first six games. Miami is
favored by 6 1/2 points, according to oddsmakers.  The last time the NBA Finals went to a decisive seventh
game was after the 2009-10 season, when the  Los Angeles Lakers 
beat the  Boston Celtics .  “If you said in September if we could decide this season
with a Game 7 in our building, every single one of us would take
it,” Heat coach  Erik Spoelstra  said at a news conference.
“It’s the best two words in team sports -- Game 7.”  The Heat erased a 10-point fourth-quarter deficit and then
had to rally again after a late 8-0 scoring run by San Antonio
gave the Spurs a 94-89 lead in the final minute and sent some
Miami fans heading for the exits.  After misfiring badly on a 3-pointer, James converted his
second try with 20.1 seconds on the clock. After Kawhi Leonard
hit one of two free throws for the Spurs, James misfired on a 3-point shot.  Chris Bosh  grabbed the rebound and passed into the
corner to  Ray Allen , who stepped back and knocked down a tying
3-pointer with 5.2 seconds left.  Resilient Bunch  “Until the clock runs out, we still have an opportunity to
win,” said Allen, who had nine points. “We’ve been a resilient
bunch all year. We knew we still had a chance.”  In the five-minute overtime, the Heat outscored the Spurs
8-5, with James hitting a seven-foot jumper for a 101-100 lead
with 1:43 remaining. Miami then came up with a series of
defensive stops in the final minute, with a steal by James, two
blocked shots by Bosh, and Allen stripping the ball from  Manu Ginobili  as the Spurs’ guard drove to the basket for a potential
go-ahead basket with two seconds remaining.  Ginobili and Spurs coach  Gregg Popovich  both argued that
there should have been a foul called on Ginobili’s drive. Allen
then hit a pair of free throws and Bosh sealed Miami’s victory
by blocking a desperation 3-pointer by Danny Green.  “If we were going to go down, we’re going to leave every
bit of energy on the floor,” James said.  Mario Chalmers  had 20 points and  Dwyane Wade  added 14 for
the Heat, who withstood Tim Duncan’s best game of the postseason.
Duncan, seeking to join John Salley as the second player in NBA
history to win titles in three decades, finished with 30 points
and 17 rebounds.  Duncan’s Drought  Duncan had only five points after halftime and failed to
score during the fourth quarter and overtime.  Leonard had 22 points and 11 rebounds for San Antonio,
while Parker had 19 points and eight assists. Parker missed 12
of his first 16 shots before hitting a step-back 3-pointer with
1:27 remaining in the fourth quarter to tie the score 89-89.
Parker also hit a spinning basket with 58 seconds left to put
Spurs back ahead 91-89 after they’d blown a 13-point lead.  The Heat answered with their two second-chance 3-pointers
in the final 30 seconds to force overtime.  “It was by far the best game I’ve ever been a part of,”
James said. “The ups and downs, the emotions -- good and bad --
throughout the whole game, to be a part of something like that
is something you’ll never be able to recreate once you’re done
playing. I’m happy about the way we dug down and were able to
get a win that it didn’t look like we could muster up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  