-- Lehman Brothers Holdings Blocks Australian Payout Vote
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-06-19T04:38:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/lehman-brothers-holdings-blocks-australian-payout-vote.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
blocked an Australian unit’s plan to pay creditors, including
towns, churches and charities standing to recover as much as
A$225 million ($213 million).  The creditors’ vote was delayed indefinitely today after
the U.S. company, which bought debt from its Asian unit, gained
enough votes to reject the proposal. Lehman said it wouldn’t
support the plan as drafted,  John Walker , executive director  IMF
(Australia) Ltd. (IMF) , which funded a lawsuit by the towns and
charities, told reporters after the closed-door meeting.  “They’re just asking for more money,” Walker said,
referring to the U.S. company which filed the biggest bankruptcy
in U.S. history in 2008. Lehman wasn’t “seeking to resolve this
on a principled basis,” he said.  Lehman purchased debt owed by the Australian unit to Lehman
Brothers Asia on June 14, giving it sufficient power to vote
down the plan, Walker said. Rejection of the proposal may delay
payouts to creditors by years, Federal Court of Australia
Justice Peter Jacobson said at a May 22 hearing when he approved
the vote meeting.  The U.S. company is having “an ongoing dialog” with the
liquidator, Philip Hoser, a partner at Jones Day LP representing
Lehman at the meeting, said in a phone interview. He declined to
comment further.  The Australian plan to settle outstanding claims required
support from 75 percent of creditors present at the meeting
today, voting in each of five creditor classes, as well as a
three-quarters majority of the value of each class of creditors
present and voting. For each dollar of debt in the local
currency, they were to receive between 33 Australian cents and
49.9 cents, according to the proposal.  Ratepayers’ Funds  “Our ratepayers look for those funds,” said  Les Finn , a
director at the Parkes Shire Council in New South Wales. Money
targeted for municipal services, parks and arenas is on hold, he
said.  Lehman’s Australian unit was found liable in September by
Federal Court Justice Steven Rares for losses incurred by three
towns which bought failed securities. The unit, Grange
Securities Ltd., “engaged in misleading and deceptive conduct”
in investing the towns’ money in synthetic collateralized debt
obligations whose value collapsed along with the U.S. housing
market, Rares said.  The ruling, which is being appealed by the Australian
unit’s liquidator PPB Advisory, extended to a total of 72
councils, churches and charities that Grange advised.  U.S. insurers agreed to pay $45 million and Australian
insurers A$3 million to fund the settlement. IMF ( Australia ) had
agreed to drop the class action lawsuit against the unit as part
of the settlement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  