-- Emerging Stocks Slump on Fed Statement as Ibovespa Sinks
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-06-19T22:07:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/emerging-stocks-decline-for-second-day-as-chinese-shares-slump.html
Emerging-market stocks slumped after
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank
may reduce the pace of economic stimulus later this year.
 Brazil ’s Ibovespa and the real tumbled to four-year lows.  Commodity companies Vale SA and OGX Petroleo & Gas
Participacoes SA plunged in  Sao Paulo . The Shanghai Composite
Index dropped to a six-month low as China Citic Bank Corp. and
China Minsheng Banking Corp. slid after the repurchase rate, a
measure of interbank funding availability, jumped to the highest
level since 2011. OAO Gazprom snapped a two-day gain in Moscow,
while KGHM Polska Miedz SA sank in Warsow amid a decision to pay
higher dividends than proposed by management.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index lost 1.4 percent to 940.62,
the lowest close since Sept. 5. Fed Chairman Bernanke said the
U.S. central bank may start dialing down its unprecedented bond-buying program this year and end it entirely in mid-2014 if the
economy finally achieves the sustainable growth the Fed has
sought since the recession ended in 2009.  “You might have an earlier beginning of tapering,”
Clement Miller, an investment strategist at Wilmington Trust
Investment Advisors Inc., which manages about $20 billion in
assets, said by phone from Baltimore. “The market is looking at
the news and saying there’s greater risk the Fed will pull back
given what they said about the  U.S. economy  being stronger than
before.”  Biggest Losses  All  10 groups  in the emerging-market index fell today as
commodity shares had the biggest losses. The broad measure has
tumbled 11 percent this year, compared with a 10 percent advance
in the MSCI World Index of developed-country stocks.  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund slid 3.1 percent to $38.61, the lowest close in a year. The
Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility
Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and expectations
of price swings, gained 1.2 percent to 26.50.  Brazil’s Ibovespa lost 3.2 percent after earlier rising as
much as 0.5 percent. Iron-ore producer Vale snapped a two-day
rally, while OGX plunged 15 percent. The real sank 1.9 percent
to 2.2247 per dollar.  Mexico ’s IPC index slid 1.1 percent.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  slid 0.9 percent in Moscow as Gazprom,
which has the second-biggest weighting on the gauge, retreated
1.7 percent. The dollar-denominated RTS Index, which entered a
 bear market  on June 5, dropped 1.7 percent.  KGHM’s Dividend  Poland’s  WIG20 (WIG20)  index dropped the most since April 17. KGHM
Polska, the nation’s sole copper and silver producer, tumbled
6.9 percent. The dividend means the company would have to raise
a similar amount in debt to finance the dividend and unrelated
investments, Chief Executive Officer  Herbert Wirth  said today.  The Shanghai Composite Index fell 0.7 percent, the lowest
close since Dec. 13, as surging money-market rates signal a cash
shortage is worsening and speculation grew regulators are
considering resuming approvals of initial public offerings.
China Citic Bank retreated 1.8 percent, while China Minsheng
Banking lost 2 percent. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index
dropped 1.5 percent.  The Borsa Istanbul Stock Exchange National 100 Index
climbed 1.4 percent after the central bank offered zero funding
at its one-week repo auction for a second time in little over a
week, tightening funding for lenders.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries slid 12 basis points to 312 basis
points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global
Diversified Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  