-- Empire State Building Gets $2 Billion Offer
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t   a n d   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2013-06-19T16:40:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/empire-state-building-gets-2-billion-offer.html
Rubin Schron, a New York real estate
investor, offered to buy the Empire State Building for $2
billion in cash as the skyscraper’s supervisor prepares to make
it the centerpiece of an initial public offering.  Schron’s company, Cammeby’s International, submitted the
bid yesterday to the attorney for Malkin Holdings LLC, which
sparred with a minority of investors over its plan to
consolidate the iconic tower and 20 other properties into a real
estate investment trust. Schron, a partial owner of lower
 Manhattan ’s Woolworth Building, would make a non-refundable
deposit of $50 million when a contract is signed and complete
the deal within 90 days, according to a letter by Stephen
Meister, a lawyer representing opponents of the IPO.  The offer faces hurdles. Malkin Holdings is proceeding with
plans to form the REIT after receiving consent from investors
representing more than the required 80 percent of the 3,300
Empire State Building units. An appraisal of the landmark tower
values the property at $2.53 billion, according to the Malkins’
valuation firm.  A deal may depend on the reversal of a court ruling
allowing the Malkins to buy out dissident investors for a token
$100 a share, according to Meister, who has appealed that
decision. Meister said he sought a potential buyer as an
alternative to the  IPO (ESB)  in the event that the vote approving the
plan is voided along with the buyout.  “We trust that Malkin Holdings, consistent with its
fiduciary duties, will give serious consideration to this
offer,” Meister said in the letter to Thomas E.L. Dewey, Malkin
Holdings’ attorney.  Hugh Burns, a spokesman for Malkin Holdings with Sard
Verbinnen & Co., declined to comment on Schron’s offer.  $100 Buyout  Malkin Holdings -- led by Chairman Peter Malkin and his son
Anthony, its president -- has the right to proceed toward the
IPO as long as it isn’t enjoined by the court, according to
Meister. He asked the New York State Supreme Court’s appellate
division to block the offering, claiming the $100 buyout
provision violates state laws and coerces investors to accept
the REIT because their shares are potentially worth more than
$300,000 apiece.  Notices were sent last week to unit-holders who rejected
the plan, giving them 10 days to reverse their decisions.  Schron’s proposal includes an option for unit-holders to
retain their interests and become non-managing members of the
new ownership entity. The offer was reported late yesterday on
the website of the Wall Street Journal.  Bragging Rights  On a June 13 conference call, Meister said a purchase of
the tower “would perhaps accommodate the varying interests of
the participants” in Empire State Building Associates LLC,
which holds title to the 102-story landmark. Those voting to
approve the REIT tended to want the ability to sell their shares
eventually, while opponents favored keeping a steady income
stream and the bragging rights that come with owning a piece of
such an iconic property.  “The beauty of this offer is if you want cash, you can get
cash, and if you want to roll your interest back into the
building, you can do that too,” Meister said on the call, which
was hosted by Richard Edelman, a  critic  of the REIT plan.  Empire State Realty Trust Inc., as the new company would be
called, is seeking to raise about $1 billion in what may be the
second-biggest U.S. IPO of a REIT. Only the 2006 debut of Santa
Monica, California-based  Douglas Emmett Inc. (DEI)  was larger in the
industry, at $1.6 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The skyscraper represents more than half the total value of
the REIT, according to the offering prospectus. About half of
the tower’s value has been assigned to unit-holders, while the
rest would go to a sublease holder that’s majority-owned by the
estate of Leona Helmsley, which is seeking to liquidate its
interest.  Cammeby’s International in April agreed to buy the
Monterey, a 521-unit apartment tower on Manhattan’s Upper East
Side, for about $250 million. Cammeby’s, in a joint venture with
the Witkoff Group, owns the bottom 28 floors of the landmark
Woolworth Building.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in  New York  at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  