-- Tepco Finds Radioactive Water as Watchdog Sets Restart Rules
-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2013-06-19T07:34:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/tepco-detects-radioactive-water-as-regulator-sets-restart-rules.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  found
unsafe levels of radioactivity in groundwater at its crippled
Fukushima station, even as Japan’s nuclear regulator set the
clock ticking on the restart of the nation’s idled reactors.  The utility, known as Tepco, detected tritium levels of
500,000 becquerels per liter and strontium levels of 1,000
becquerels per liter at a monitoring well in its turbine complex
at the Dai-ichi plant, it said in a statement today.  Japan’s nuclear safety guidelines require tritium levels at
nuclear plants to remain below 60,000 becquerels per liter and
strontium levels below 30 becquerels per liter. Japan’s safety
limit for radioactive materials in drinking water is 10
becquerels per liter.  The new findings by the utility, which has struggled with
the handling of contaminated water at Fukushima, came as  Japan ’s
Nuclear Regulation Authority finalized its new safety guidelines
required for any nuclear plant restarts. All but two of Japan’s
50 reactors are idled for safety assessments after the
earthquake and subsequent tsunami of March 11, 2011 caused
meltdowns and radiation leaks at the Fukushima plant. The NRA
was set up after the disaster to independently review Japan’s
nuclear power.  The Fukushima contamination’s spread seemed limited, with a
separate monitoring well about 70 meters away showing tritium
levels of 380 becquerels per liter and strontium levels of 28
becquerels per liter, according to the statement by the company.  Ocean Water  There was no apparent affect on the ocean water adjacent to
the seaside plant, Toshihiko Fukuda, general manager for Tepco’s
nuclear power and plant siting division, said at a press
conference today.  “Tritium concentrations in the sea water remain in the
same range as before,” he said.  The company suspects the contamination stems from an April
2011 accident that resulted in the spill of radioactive water,
which is now being detected in the water table, according to the
statement.  Tepco shares fell 3.9 percent to close at 517 yen on the
 Tokyo  Stock Exchange, the  worst performance  among Japan’s 10
regional power companies. The TOPIX Electric Power & Gas Index
gained 0.3 percent while the benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average
rose 1.9 percent.  Restart Filings  The nuclear regulator’s guidelines, which will take effect
from July 8, still require Cabinet approval, Chairman Shunichi Tanaka said at a meeting in Tokyo today. Under the rules,
nuclear  power plants  will need to build secondary control
centers at least 100 meters from reactor buildings to manage
emergency cooling systems and radiation filter vents. They also
stipulate tsunami defenses must be based on the largest
estimated waves from the most recent scientific assessments.  “This will enhance the stability and reliability of our
nuclear plants’ operations,” Makoto Yagi, chairman of  Japan’s
Federation of Electric Power Cos.  and president of  Kansai
Electric  Power Co., said in a statement. “We ask the NRA to
work efficiently in confirming compliance with the new standards
so that decisions on restarts can be made.”  Kansai Electric plans to file to restart the No. 3 and No.
4 units at its Takahama plant as soon as the new rules take
effect, spokesman Akihiro Aoki said today by phone. The company
will also seek the regulators’ endorsement for the No. 3 and No.
4 units at its Ohi plant, now the nation’s only operating
reactors, he said.  Tepco Turnaround  Hokkaido Electric Power Co. (9509)  plans to file for unit Nos. 1-3
at its Tomari plant, according to spokesman Shota Okada.  Shikoku
Electric Power Co. (9507)  is considering filing for the No. 3 unit at
its Ikata plant after the rules take effect, spokesman Tomoaki
Yasuoka said.  Kyushu Electric Power Co. (9508)  is preparing to file for unit
Nos. 3 and 4 at its Genkai plant and for unit Nos. 1 and 2 at
its Sendai plant, according to spokeswoman Naoko Iguchi.  While Tepco hasn’t announced specific restart proposals,
the resumption of four of seven reactors at its Kashiwazaki
Kariwa plant is cited as part of a turnaround plan released in
May 2012 that would return it to profit this fiscal year.  The tritium and strontium detections at Tepco’s Fukushima
plant followed a government order last month to build an
underground wall to prevent groundwater from flowing into the
basements of reactor buildings. The plant site, 220 kilometers
(137 miles) northeast of Tokyo, is running out of space to store
radioactive water, raising concerns the operator will be forced
to dump it into the ocean.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  