-- Equity Bank Gains Most in Month on Profit Outlook: Nairobi Mover
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2013-06-19T12:56:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/equity-bank-gains-most-in-month-on-profit-outlook-nairobi-mover.html
Equity Bank Ltd.,  Kenya ’s biggest
lender by market value, climbed the most in more than a month
after AIB Capital Ltd. raised its price estimate for the stock,
citing a strong outlook for earnings.  The stock advanced 2.4 percent to 32.25 shillings by the
close in the capital, Nairobi, the largest gain since May 16.
Trading volume was almost double the three-month average. AIB
raised Equity Bank’s price estimate by 39 percent to 38.43
shillings, maintaining its  buy rating  on the shares.  Equity Bank, which operates in Kenya, Uganda,  Tanzania ,
 Rwanda  and South Sudan, last month posted a 22 percent increase
in  first-quarter profit  to 3.21 billion shillings ($37 million).
The Nairobi-based lender said on June 6 it restructured
operations and promoted John Staley to chief officer in charge
of finance, innovation and technology.  “We expect the growth in earnings over the next five years
to be achieved mainly through efficiency gains through continued
roll out of tech-centric product suites and the graduation of
its small business customers,” AIB analyst Ted Macharia said in
an e-mailed note dated yesterday.  Equity Bank’s full-year profit will  probably increase  15
percent to 13.9 billion shillings, according to the mean
estimate of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The lender’s
shares have rallied 36 percent in 2013, outpacing an advance of
25 percent for the Nairobi Securities Exchange All Share Index.  Five analysts excluding Macharia recommend investors buy
the stock, while four have a hold rating and one says sell,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  