-- Terra Firma Unit to Raise $1.5 Billion in German Homes IPO
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-06-19T10:41:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/terra-firma-unit-to-raise-1-5-billion-in-german-property-ipo.html
Deutsche Annington Immobilien AG,
 Germany ’s largest residential landlord, plans to raise about 1.1
billion euros ($1.5 billion) in the second initial public
offering in the country’s real estate industry this year.  Deutsche Annington will receive at least 400 million euros
from the share sale to pay debt, the Bochum-based company said
in a statement today. The shares will begin trading in  Frankfurt 
on July 3 and will be priced from 18 euros to 21 euros, valuing
the company at about 4.3 billion euros.  Deutsche Annington, majority owned by private-equity firm
Terra Firma Capital Partners Ltd., is seeking new investors as
demand for German real estate stocks is faltering. The FTSE
EPRA/Nareit index of German property stocks has dropped 5.4
percent this year, after climbing 33 percent in 2012. The
benchmark DAX Index has gained about 8.5 percent this year.  LEG Immobilien AG (LEG) , a competitor formerly owned by Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., raised about 1.3 billion euros in a share sale
this year that was the largest in Germany’s real estate
industry. The shares have dropped about 5 percent from the IPO
price of 44 euros each.  Terra Firma owns about 85 percent of Deutsche Annington and
 Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  owns the rest, according to a
Deutsche Annington statement on June 10.  Shares Sold  Deutsche Annington owns 180,000 apartments in cities
including Berlin and Cologne.  Gagfah SA (GFJ) , Germany’s second-largest landlord, has 144,000 apartments.  After the IPO, about 25.7 percent of Deutsche Annington
will be publicly listed. That includes 22.2 million new shares
issued in the capital increase and 27.4 million existing shares
sold by the owners. As many as 7.4 million additional shares may
be offered in the “over-allotment” option to cover extra
demand, the company said.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  will lead the IPO.
Other managers include  Bank of America  Corp., Deutsche Bank AG,
Berenberg Bank, Commerzbank AG and Kempen & Co.  Deutsche Annington plans to pay a dividend of 70 percent of
funds from operations excluding asset sales. FFO is a measure of
a company’s ability to generate cash.  “Sustainable growth, steady cash flows and dividend
payments distinguish this industry,” Chief Executive Officer
Rolf Buch said in the statement.  Debt Financing  Deutsche Annington is making payments in Europe’s biggest
restructuring of a commercial-mortgage backed security. A court
in December gave the company more time to pay 3.8 billion euros
of debt remaining on the German Residential Asset Note
Distributor Plc, or GRAND, which was due to expire in July,
according to  investor documents  on the company’s website. GRAND
was valued at 5.8 billion euros when it was issued in 2006,
making it  Europe ’s biggest corporate CMBS. Annington on June 10
said it plans to fully pay off GRAND by October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey St.Onge in London at 
 jstonge@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  