-- Tesla Recalls Some Model S Cars for Manufacturing Flaw
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e   a n d   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-06-19T20:05:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/tesla-recalls-some-model-s-cars-for-manufacturing-flaw.html
Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , the electric-car
maker whose stock has more than tripled this year, is recalling
1,228 Model S sedans in the U.S. for a manufacturing flaw that
could put back-seat passengers at risk in a crash.  Tesla announced the recall on its  company blog . The recall
affected Model S sedans made from May 10 to June 8, with the
number of vehicles specified on the U.S. National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration  website .  Shares rose 1.2 percent to $104.68 at the close in  New
York .  Palo Alto , California-based Tesla has surged 209 percent
this year, compared with a 14 percent gain for the Russell 1000
Index.  The move is the company’s first recall and follows a first-quarter profit, the first in its history. Tesla also repaid a
U.S. Energy Department early. Both the profit and loan repayment
spurred Tesla’s shares to rise.  Chief Executive Officer  Elon Musk  wrote on the company’s
blog that Tesla hasn’t received any consumer complaints about
the defect, which it discovered during the manufacturing
process.  The flaw “reduces our confidence that the left hand seat
back will be properly retained in the event of a crash,” Musk
wrote.  Affected owners will be contacted “in the next few days,”
Musk wrote, and the company “will pick up the car at a location
of the owner’s convenience, provide a Model S loaner if needed,
perform the work and bring the car back to the owner a few hours
later.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  