-- EU Weighs Minimum Bank Rule for Loss-Absorbing Liabilities
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-06-19T16:02:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/eu-considers-minimum-bank-rule-for-loss-absorbing-liabilities.html
European Union nations are weighing
whether globally  systemic banks  should be forced to meet common
minimum rules on issuing unsecured debt and other liabilities
that could be written down by regulators in a crisis.  Representatives from the European Union’s 27 nations today
in Brussels discussed draft plans drawn up by Ireland, the
holder of the EU’s rotating presidency, that would force
globally systemically important  banks  to ensure that at least 6
percent of their total capital and liabilities would be in
instruments that are eligible for forced losses, according to a
document obtained by  Bloomberg News . The total liabilities
figure would be calculated in a way that doesn’t include the
bank’s derivatives trades.  While the U.K.,  Netherlands  and  Finland  have pushed for
such a minimum rule to be included in a draft EU law on how
regulators should handle bank crises, some other nations are
opposed to the plan, according to an EU official. Finance
ministers are set to seek a deal on the law at a meeting in
Luxembourg on June 21.  Unsecured Debt  Under draft plans presented last year by  Michel Barnier ,
the EU’s financial services chief, losses at a crisis-hit bank
would be absorbed first by wiping out its capital, then writing
down holders of unsecured debt in order of seniority. Holders of
secured debt, such as covered bonds, would be shielded.  The document, dated June 18, doesn’t give a precise minimum
figure for bank liabilities that should be eligible for such
writedowns, and instead has a range of 6 percent to 10 percent
of total capital and liabilities, excluding derivatives trades.
The requirement would apply to banks judged systemically
important by regulators, while rules for smaller lenders would
be set by national authorities.  The Financial Stability Board, a global group bringing
together regulators, central bankers, and finance ministry
officials from the Group of 20 nations, has set criteria for
determining if a bank is globally systemic. It publishes annual
lists of which lenders have the designation.  Affected banks, such as  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and
 BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , would be expected to comply by Dec. 31, 2016,
according to the Irish document.  A spokeswoman for Ireland’s EU presidency, who couldn’t be
named in line with government policy, declined to comment on the
document. Ireland is aiming for a deal on the law at this week’s
meeting of finance ministers, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  