-- EU Parliament Chief Negotiator Backs Budget Cut for Bloc
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-06-20T17:06:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/eu-parliament-chief-negotiator-backs-7-year-budget-cut-for-bloc.html
The European Parliament’s chief
budget negotiator accepted a lower seven-year spending ceiling
demanded by government leaders in return for a mid-term review,
setting the stage for a push to win the full assembly’s support.  Alain Lamassoure, a French member of the European Union
legislature, accepted a proposal by national leaders in February
to fix the EU’s budget for 2014-2020 at 960 billion euros ($1.3
trillion). The sum, down from an original proposal of 1.047
trillion euros and less than the 994 billion euros committed in
the current budget cycle, would mark the first shrinking of the
EU’s “Multiannual Financial Framework.”  Lamassoure, a member of the 27-nation Parliament’s
Christian Democratic group, the assembly’s biggest, endorsed the
spending cut yesterday in Brussels after winning a pledge from
EU governments to review in 2016 whether the seven-year ceiling
is adequate. Other members of the Parliament’s negotiating team
refused to sign off on the deal, raising questions about whether
the full 754-seat assembly will give its approval in a vote due
in July.  “We cannot accept a seven-year EU budget that ties our
hands and cuts our ambition in important EU policy areas,”
Hannes Swoboda, Austrian leader of the Parliament’s Socialists,
the second-largest group, said in an e-mailed statement.  Budget Guidelines  The EU’s seven-year  budget guidelines , traditionally a
tussle between richer nations that are net contributors and
poorer countries mainly in eastern and southern Europe, are a
gauge of the bloc’s political mood and coherence. Regional and
agricultural aid soaks up around four-fifths of EU expenditure,
funding everything from transport networks to farmers’ incomes.  European spending is about 1 percent of EU gross domestic
product compared with national spending in the bloc that is
around 50 percent of domestic GDP. The debate over 2014-2020 EU
spending has taken on added significance as the bloc seeks to
contain the three-year-old debt crisis that has threatened to
break up the 17-nation euro.  The accord struck in early February by EU government
leaders came at a gathering that lasted more than 25 hours and
followed a failed attempt in November. The richest EU countries
including  Germany  and the U.K. insisted on a reduction, saying
it would be consistent with efforts by national governments to
narrow their budget deficits.  National Austerity  EU Parliament members have argued that European expenditure
is a collective investment tool that becomes more important
during a time of national austerity. The assembly, facing
elections next year, has threatened to veto the leaders’
agreement unless governments offer concessions including a mid-term review and greater flexibility over annual spending.  “Priorities from Parliament have been taken on board,”
Lamassoure, who is chairman of the assembly’s budget committee,
said in an e-mailed statement. “However, Parliament is not in a
position to give its final approval at this stage, given that
the positions of the political groups in the negotiating team
are different.”  Guy Verhofstadt, Belgian leader in the EU assembly of the
pro-business Liberals, the third-biggest group, said yesterday’s
deal showed “little progress” and national governments should
“think twice” in “this game of inter-institutional
brinkmanship.”  Helga Truepel, German budget spokeswoman of the Greens, the
EU Parliament’s fourth-largest faction, said she would recommend
that her group “reject this weak agreement.”  Ireland, which holds the EU’s rotating presidency and
struck yesterday’s deal with Lamassoure on behalf of the bloc’s
national governments, urged the full Parliament to give its
backing.  “This is a balanced package,” Irish Deputy Prime Minister
Eamon Gilmore said in an e-mailed statement. “This deal is
about putting in place a robust 960 billion-euro budget for
investment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  