-- Most European Stocks Decline Before Fed as Nordea Slides
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-06-19T16:05:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/european-stock-futures-little-changed-asian-shares-gain.html
Most  European stocks  slipped as
investors awaited the conclusion of the  Federal Reserve ’s policy
meeting for indications on the duration of stimulus measures.  Nordea Bank AB sank the most in a year after the Swedish
government sold a $3 billion stake in the country’s biggest
lender.  Konecranes (KCR1V)  Oyj slid 6.7 percent after the Finnish
engineering company lowered its profit forecast.  Alcatel-Lucent (ALU) 
SA rallied to a 14-month high after announcing plans to sell at
least 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) of assets.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell 0.2 percent to 292.36 at
the close of trading, as more than three shares declined for
every two that gained. The gauge has lost 5.9 percent since May
22, when Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the U.S. central bank
could pare stimulus measures if the world’s largest economy
improves sustainably.  “At the very least the markets are looking for some
clarification from Mr Bernanke,” Neil Mackinnon, a global macro
strategist at VTB Capital Plc told  Mark Barton  in a Bloomberg
Television interview in London. “There is an economic case for
just keeping things on hold, but the Fed, the advisory council
and even Mr Bernanke himself have said that quantitative easing
might actually be creating financial imbalances and excessive
risk taking.”  National benchmark indexes fell in 15 of the 18 western
European markets. Germany’s DAX and the U.K.’s  FTSE 100 (UKX)  lost 0.4
percent, while France’s CAC 40 slid 0.6 percent.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  concludes its two-day
policy meeting today, with Bernanke scheduled to speak after the
close of European equity markets.  ‘Relaxed View’  “As the long awaited FOMC decision is finally announced
this evening, we have seen a much more relaxed view taking
shape,” said Nick Xanders, an equity strategist at BTIG Ltd. in
London. “Most expect him to continue to be accommodative, at
least until the back half of the year.”  Nordea (NDA)  slid 4.7 percent to 75.05 kronor, the biggest
decline since May 2012. Sweden sold 260 million shares in the
bank at 75 kronor apiece to cut the country’s public debt. The
sale reduces the government’s stake to 7 percent from 13.4
percent.  Swedish lenders SEB AB and Swedbank AB both declined,
falling 3.5 percent to 65.45 kronor and 1.8 percent to 155.20
kronor, respectively.  Konecranes Declines  Konecranes slid 6.7 percent to 22.65 euros, the largest
decrease in a year. The world’s biggest supplier of industrial
cranes lowered its full-year profit guidance, saying it now sees
operating income ex-restructuring costs at 2012 levels. It had
previously estimated an increase in earnings.  BT Group Plc (BT/A)  retreated 1.8 percent to 313.7 pence after the
U.K. phone company said Gavin Patterson will succeed Ian
Livingston as chief executive officer. U.K. Prime Minister  David
Cameron  said Livingston will be appointed a trade minister at
the end of the year to replace former HSBC Holdings Plc Chairman
 Stephen Green .  Fomento de Construcciones & Contratas SA tumbled 5.2
percent to 7.43 euros in Madrid after the Spanish construction
company’s Austrian unit, Alpine Holding GmbH, failed to reach a
refinancing agreement with creditors.  Alpine Bau, the company’s operating unit with businesses in
Austria, Germany and eastern Europe that employ 15,000 staff,
plans to file for restructuring to rescue parts of the group,
Alpine said in a statement. Alpine Holding will probably go
insolvent in the process, it said.  Alcatel Advances  Alcatel-Lucent rallied 6.2 percent to 1.50 euros, the
highest since April 2012. The maker of  network equipment 
announced plans to sell assets and save another 1 billion euros
in fixed costs by 2015 to stem losses and focus the company on
more promising business like ultra-high-speed Internet. After
2015, Alcatel will look to cut its debt by 2 billion euros by
selling shares on the stock market or through further asset
sales, the Paris-based company said.  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  climbed 3.4 percent to 2.85 euros. The mobile-phone maker’s American depositary receipts surged as much as 12
percent in after-market  New York  trading as the Financial Times
reported that China’s Huawei Technologies Co. may be interested
in buying the company.  Huawei is “considering these sorts of acquisitions,”
Richard Yu, head of Huawei’s consumer business said, according
to the FT. The ADRs pared gains after Huawei said it has “no
plans” to purchase the struggling Finnish handset maker.  Eurobank Ergasias SA surged 30 percent to 2.01 euros after
Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. agreed to increase its stake in
Eurobank Properties to about 42 percent from 19 percent via a
200 million-euro rights offer. Eurobank, Greece’s second-biggest
lender, will retain a stake of about 33.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in  London  at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  