-- Teva Agrees to Specify Executive Pay as Lawsuit Settled
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2013-06-19T08:36:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/teva-agrees-to-specify-executive-pay-as-lawsuit-settled.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) 
agreed to publish individual executives’ pay, settling an
investor class-action lawsuit filed in  Tel Aviv  that argued the
company violated Israeli and U.S. rules for more than a decade.  The world’s largest generic drugmaker will begin releasing
compensation details for each of its top managers starting with
its 2013 annual financial report, Petach Tikva-based Teva said
in an e-mailed statement.  Teva’s decision may lead to increased transparency among
other companies with stock traded both in Israel and abroad that
followed the drugmaker’s example when it stopped publishing
individual pay, according to shareholders Sharon Hannes and Ehud Kamar, the law professors who filed the suit.  “Teva will change its compensation disclosure practices in
a significant way,” Hannes and Kamar said in a separate
statement. “We expect other dual-listed companies to follow
Teva and also disclose executive compensation on an individual
basis.”  The settlement marks another shift in approach under Chief
Executive Officer Jeremy Levin, who pledged last year after
succeeding Shlomo Yanai in the post that Teva would be more open
with information. Teva also agreed to pay about $200,000 to
compensate the plaintiffs, whose filing was based on a complaint
that the company misinterpreted a law change in 2000.  Group Report  The drugmaker switched from reporting pay for each of its
five top  managers  in its 1999 and 2000 annual reports to
publishing a combined figure after Israeli law was changed to
allow dual-listed companies to use the financial statements
produced under rules of the other country where the stock
trades. Teva’s reading of the law prompted other Israeli
companies also listed abroad to stop reporting individual
compensation figures, according to the plaintiffs.  “This should begin a new chapter in the history of
 Israel ’s capital markets, one in which shareholders of all
public companies can monitor executive pay and ensure that its
level and structure are appropriate,” Hannes and Kamar said.  The investors sued Teva in November, almost four months
before Swiss voters approved some of the world’s toughest limits
on corporate executive pay. In Teva’s 2012  annual report ,
released on Feb. 12, it said that cash compensation that year
for its 11 top executives totaled $12.7 million, and they
received another $4.04 million exercising  stock options .  Hannes is a law professor at Tel Aviv university, while
Kamar is professor of law and director of the business-law
program at the University of  Southern California . Shares in Teva
are traded in both Israel and the U.S.  The case was Class Action 18048-11-12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net  