-- Ex-Goldman Trader Barred From Presenting Lawyers’ Advice
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-06-19T17:37:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/ex-goldman-trader-barred-from-presenting-lawyers-advice.html
Ex- Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  trader
Fabrice Tourre lost a bid to present evidence that he
“reasonably relied’ on the advice of lawyers when working on a
transaction at the center of a fraud lawsuit filed by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  Allowing Tourre to use that defense without meeting legal
requirements ‘‘would give the defendant all of the essential
benefits of an advice of counsel defense without having to bear
the burden of proving any of the elements of the defense,’’ U.S.
District Judge Katherine Forrest in  Manhattan  ruled. Tourre’s
trial is scheduled to begin July 15.  The SEC sued the London-based trader in April 2010, saying
he defrauded investors by not disclosing that hedge fund Paulson
& Co. had helped pick the underlying securities for a
collateralized debt obligation, or CDO, called Abacus and
planned to bet against them.  After reaching a $550 million settlement with New York-based Goldman Sachs, the SEC filed a new claim against Tourre,
saying he gave the company ‘‘substantial assistance’’ as it
misled investors. The SEC is also pursuing claims that Tourre
violated securities laws related to ACA Management LLC’s sale of
protection on $909 million of the Abacus notes, which defaulted.  Tourre sought to offer evidence showing that: Paulson’s
counsel reviewed or was copied on various documents; counsel for
ACA reviewed certain transaction documents; and in-house or
outside counsel for Goldman Sachs drafted or reviewed disclosure
language, according to Forrest’s ruling issued late yesterday
and made public today.  Several Lawyers  The trader also wanted to show that several people part of
the process were lawyers, such as David Gerst, a member of the
trading desk, who was an attorney at a law firm before joining
at Goldman Sachs, Forrest said.  ‘‘It would be confusing and unduly prejudicial for Tourre
to present extensive evidence on the presence and involvement of
lawyers -- who are presumably paid to ensure that any
disclosures comply with the relevant legal requirements -- while
at the same time professing not to have relied on their advice
in preparing or disseminating those disclosures,” Forrest
wrote.  Tourre argued he was one of six people on the Goldman Sachs
trading desk that worked on the transaction and that internal
and external lawyers as well as the company’s compliance
department reviewed offering documents for the CDO.  “The fact that lawyers saw and commented on disclosure
language could be understood as ‘blessing’ the sufficiency of
that disclosure,” the judge said.  ‘Primarily Responsible’  Forrest said Tourre could use the words “counsel,”
“lawyer” and “attorney” and present evidence “tending to
show that he was not the person primarily responsible for the
transaction and that the transaction occurred in the context of
a sophisticated financial institution.”  Pamela Rogers Chepiga, a lawyer for Tourre, declined to
comment through Chris Kittredge, a spokesman for her at Sard
Verbinnen & Co. in New York.  John Nester , a spokesman for the SEC, declined to comment
on Forrest’s ruling.  The transactions at issue in the case involved  IKB Deutsche
Industriebank AG (IKB) , which allegedly lost almost all of its $150
million investment, and ABN Amro Bank NV, which assumed the
credit risk associated with a portion of the Abacus CDO.  The case is SEC v. Tourre, 10-03229, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  