-- Texas Senate Passes Bill That May Close Abortion Clinics
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g   a n d   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2013-06-19T05:11:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/texas-senate-passes-bill-that-may-close-abortion-clinics.html
The Texas Senate passed rules that
advocates for access to abortion say may force most of the
state’s clinics to close.  Backed by Texas Governor  Rick Perry , a Republican, the
measure passed the Senate 20-10 yesterday at about 11:30 p.m.
local time and now heads to the House of Representatives, where
both sides say they expect it to win approval. Before the vote,
lawmakers took out a provision to ban abortions after 20 weeks
of pregnancy.  The bill would require abortions to be done in ambulatory
surgical centers by doctors with admitting privileges at a
hospital within 30 miles (50 kilometers) of their clinic. It
continues a push in Republican-led states to limit when and how
women can obtain abortions. Some measures, including bans after
the 20th week of pregnancy passed in at least 10 states since
2010, are on hold pending legal challenges.  “I am trying to look at what can actually improve the
quality of care and protect life and pass through the
legislature during the next seven days,” Senator Glenn Hegar, a
Katy Republican who sponsored the measures, said on the floor.  Of 42 clinics in  Texas , five meet surgical-center
guidelines, according to Hegar. The state has more stringent
requirements for the centers, compared with abortion clinics,
that cover heating and ventilation systems, employee hiring,
room size and fire alarms.  Forced Closings  Clinics outside four metropolitan areas -- Houston, Dallas-Fort Worth, San Antonio and Austin -- would be forced to close
unless owners renovate their facilities, said Heather Busby,
executive director of NARAL Pro-Choice America’s Texas chapter.  It may be difficult for doctors at some clinics to obtain
hospital admitting privileges. The Jackson Women’s Health Clinic
in  Mississippi , for example, the state’s only one, is
challenging a similar law in court after no hospital would grant
privileges to its doctors.  The Texas measure also effectively bans the procedure by
telemedicine, in which doctors prescribe abortion-inducing drugs
during telephone or video conferences, by requiring that the
physician be physically present to examine the patient before
writing the prescription.  It’s already difficult for Texas clinics to do this, after
a law that took effect last year requiring doctors to show
ultrasound images of the fetus to women seeking an abortion --
meaning the provider must be in the same room as the patient.  Safety Cited  Bill supporters, including the Texas Catholic Conference of
Bishops, say the legislation protects women’s health by making
abortion safer.  “These changes would be a tremendous raising of the level
of care for women,” said Joe Pojman, executive director of the
Texas Alliance for Life, a group based in Austin that opposes
abortion except to protect the mother’s life.  Providers say the rules are meant to close clinics by
making it too expensive to comply. Since 2003, Texas has
required abortions performed past 16 weeks of pregnancy to occur
at an ambulatory center, Busby said.  The measure has overwhelming support in the House, where 95
of 150 members are Republicans, said Mark Jones, a political-science professor at Rice University in Houston who tracks the
legislature.  Nine other states passed or amended laws in the past four
years to require that abortions be performed at ambulatory
centers, said Elizabeth Nash, a policy analyst at the New York-based Guttmacher Institute, which researches reproductive health
data. Seven states have approved laws requiring abortion doctors
to have admitting privileges at nearby hospitals.  ‘Reshape’ Landscape  “This bill will reshape the abortion landscape in Texas,”
Nash said. “This would make it much more difficult for women to
have access to women’s health care, because longer distances
mean more time off for work and more challenges in arranging
child care.”  A measure passed yesterday 228-196 in the Republican-led
U.S. House of Representatives would ban abortions after the 20th
week of pregnancy, mirroring the provision that was removed from
the Texas bill. The federal measure would exempt survivors of
rape and incest. Hegar said he took out the ban from his bill
because it lacked enough support to pass.  Only 1.5 percent of abortions performed in the U.S. in 2006
were done after 20 weeks, according to Guttmacher Institute
data. Almost a quarter, or 23 percent of 1,793 U.S. providers,
offered them in 2008.  Texas legislators are meeting in a special session that
concludes June 25 to consider abortion and other topics raised
by Perry. A group of Republican moderates and Democrats had
blocked abortion bills during the regular session that ended May
27, Jones said. Perry, an abortion opponent, forced a vote on
the issue, Jones said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  