-- Mexican Currency Rises Before Fed Comments; Bond Yields Decline
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-06-19T15:38:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/mexican-currency-rises-before-fed-comments-bond-yields-decline.html
Mexico ’s peso climbed for the first
time in four days as bonds rallied before comments from Federal
Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke on record monetary stimulus.  The peso rose 0.2 percent to 12.8649 per U.S. dollar at
10:31 a.m. in Mexico City. The increase was the currency’s first
on a closing basis since June 13. Yields on peso bonds due in
2024 fell three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 5.41
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Investors have been dumping the bonds, fueling a tumble in
the currency, amid speculation policy makers in the U.S.,
Mexico’s biggest trading partner, are preparing to taper monthly
asset purchases. Under the Fed’s program, global holdings of
Mexico’s fixed-rate government debt rose to a record even after
the Latin American country’s central bank cut rates to 4 percent
in March. Bernanke is scheduled to speak with reporters today
after a policy meeting.  The market “is very much waiting for what happens with the
Fed,”  Mario Copca , a currency and fixed-income strategist at
Metanalisis SA, said in a telephone interview from Mexico City.
“If policy makers reiterate their position, that’s to say that
the market liquidity can be sustained. Mexico can continue to be
attractive because of the interest rates it offers and the
exchange rate.”  The peso has lost 5.7 percent since the end of April as
traders speculated whether the Fed will maintain its $85 billion
in monthly bond buying. Mexico central bank Governor Agustin
Carstens said in April that volatility in capital flows may spur
an “overreaction” in the exchange rate.  The Federal Open Market Committee is due to release its
statement and economic forecasts at 2 p.m. in  Washington .
Bernanke said May 22 that the central bank may reduce the pace
of its monthly bond purchases if there was sustainable
improvement in employment. At the same time, he said a premature
tightening of monetary policy might imperil the economic
recovery.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  