-- F-35 Tests Productive as Challenges With Software Persist
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-06-19T19:25:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/f-35-tests-productive-as-challenges-with-software-persist.html
The Pentagon’s ground and flight
testing of  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 jets has been productive
in the past year even as software poses continuing challenges,
according to the military’s top testing official.  “Problems revealed by ongoing testing,” particularly of
systems needed for combat missions, such as sensors and
navigation, “have required additional time and effort to
resolve,”  Michael Gilmore , the Defense Department’s director of
operational test and evaluation, said in testimony prepared for
a Senate appropriations defense subcommittee today.  The Pentagon estimates that 2,443 F-35s will cost $391.2
billion, a 68 percent increase since the Defense Department
signed its initial contract for the fighter with Bethesda,
Maryland-based Lockheed in 2001. Still, the F-35, the costliest
U.S. weapons system, has made progress this year, according to
Pentagon officials.  They cite a 1.1 percent decline in its overall cost and
$500 million decrease in estimates of the price tag to retrofit
aircraft for a plane that’s being built even as it’s still in
development. Frank Kendall, the Pentagon’s top weapons buyer,
said last week that he favors increasing production to 42 planes
in fiscal 2015 and 62 in fiscal 2016, up from the 29 a year
planned for this year and next year.  Durbin’s View  “Obviously, the program is in better shape today than it’s
been,” with “serious problems in the past,” Senator  Richard Durbin , an Illinois Democrat who heads the subcommittee, said in
an interview after the hearing, the first he convened on the
subject since becoming chairman this year.  “The cost-overrun situation is dramatic and we clearly
must complete the program and do it in the most efficient way,”
said Durbin, whose panel hasn’t yet acted on the Pentagon’s
request for 29 additional aircraft in fiscal 2014.  The three other congressional defense panels have approved
the request.  “Now we are faced with a dilemma,” said Durbin. In a time
of reduced Pentagon budgets, “what choices do we make in terms
of the number of aircraft that will be produced and what impact
will that have on our allies?”  In an exchange with Kendall during the hearing, Durbin
asked whether the F-35 has become “too big to cancel” and
“had to continue apace because of international partners.”  “I don’t think any program in the department is too big to
fail,” Kendall said.“ Just as a matter of principle. As a
practical matter for the F-35, we are not at a place where we
would consider stopping the program.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  