-- Fab.com Valued at $1 Billion as It Expands to Asia
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-06-19T16:18:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/fab-com-raises-150-million-to-value-web-retailer-at-1-billion.html
Fab.com Inc. said it raised $150
million from investors such as  China ’s  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) ,
valuing the 2-year-old online retailer of uniquely designed home
goods at about $1 billion.  The funding will help Fab expand into Asia and enhance its
supply-chain operations, the company said. Fab, which isn’t yet
profitable, is targeting sales of about $200 million to $300
million in 2013, about double last year’s revenue, Chief
Executive Officer Jason Goldberg said in an interview.  Fab has already received $310 million in investment and
acquired five companies, Goldberg said. The New York-based
retailer also obtained a warehouse to store and distribute
inventory, created a Fab-branded product line and is opening
showrooms to display products.  “We want to design a lifestyle that’s modern, colorful and
urban-inspired and bring that all over the world -- to Asia
next,” Goldberg said. “Our goal here is to raise the money
that the company needs in order to fulfill dreams to be the next
$10 billion e-commerce business.”  Fab plans to raise an extra $50 million to $100 million in
the next few months, Goldberg said. Today’s announcement puts
the company’s value at about $1 billion, said Deborah Roth, a
spokeswoman.  Fab debuted in 2010 as Fabulis.com, a gay social network.
Goldberg and co-founder  Bradford Shelhammer  abandoned the idea
after failing to amass enough users, choosing instead to sell
furniture, jewelry and kitchenware.  Atomico, Andreessen Horowitz and  Itochu Corp. (8001)  were also
among the investors. Bloomberg LP, the parent company of
Bloomberg News, is an investor in Andreessen Horowitz.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  