-- Federal Health Exchanges Are Behind Schedule, GAO Finds
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2013-06-19T15:12:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/federal-health-exchanges-are-behind-schedule-gao-finds.html
Computer systems to help Americans
gain coverage on the Affordable Care Act’s insurance exchanges
may not be ready on time, and training for the people who will
assist consumers is behind schedule, a government report found.  The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services is still
developing and testing computer systems meant to determine
consumers’ eligibility for government subsidies, the U.S.
Government Accountability Office said today. Plans to train
“navigators” to assist people in finding new insurance plans
have been delayed by about two months past a June deadline, the
GAO found. The exchanges are set to open Oct. 1.  “Factors such as the still-evolving scope of CMS’s
required activities in each state and the many activities yet to
be performed -- some close to the start of enrollment -- suggest
a potential for challenges going forward,” the GAO said in its
report. “Much progress has been made, but much remains to be
accomplished within a relatively short amount of time.”  The exchanges are the centerpiece of the 2010 law’s efforts
to expand coverage for the uninsured, with some 7 million
Americans expected to buy subsidized private plans on the
markets next year. The Obama administration’s workload for
creating the federal marketplace has swelled beyond what the
law’s authors predicted as many Republican-led states have
refused to operate their own exchanges.  “This law has been unpopular and unwieldy every step of
the way,” Representative  Darrell Issa , a California Republican
who heads the House Oversight and Government Reform committee,
said in a statement. “We are seeing a rollout marred by missed
deadlines and incomplete programs.”  Obama Response  The GAO is the nonpartisan investigative arm of Congress
and its report today addresses the federally facilitated health
exchanges that the Obama administration is setting up in 34
states that chose not to build the marketplaces on their own.  In a response included in the GAO report, the Obama
administration cited the progress made toward building the
exchanges, including accepting applications from insurers who
want to sell on the markets and awarding grants and contracts
for consumer assistance.  The administration is “extremely confident that on Oct. 1
the marketplace will open on schedule and millions of Americans
will have access to affordable quality health insurance.”  In a second  report  also released today, the GAO found mixed
results in creating exchanges meant to serve small employers.
Seventeen states and  Washington , D.C., are building such markets
on their own and the agency said they had made “varying degrees
of progress” by the end of March.  As of March 31, states still needed to complete 85 percent
of key activities required for those exchanges, on average, the
GAO said. States may have completed some of the steps since
then, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  