-- Fiat Judge Seen Leaving Marchionne in Lurch Over Chrysler
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y ,   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2013-06-20T07:29:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/fiat-judge-seen-leaving-marchionne-in-lurch-over-chrysler.html
Fiat SpA (F) ’s  Sergio Marchionne  may
have to wait months longer than planned to learn the price of
shares he needs to complete his purchase of Chrysler Group LLC.  Fiat, the Turin, Italy-based automaker, asked  Delaware 
Chancery Court Judge Donald Parsons, 64, last year to rule that
a call-option agreement covering some shares held by a United
Auto Workers’ retiree health-care trust are worth $139.7
million. The trust puts the value as high as $342 million.  Parsons, who is considering the matter based on pretrial
filings by the two sides, is likely to call for a trial, where
witnesses and experts can be questioned and cross-examined,
before placing a value on the shares, said  Charles Elson ,
director of the John L. Weinberg Center for  Corporate Governance 
at the University of Delaware. That would add months to a
process Marchionne had estimated would be completed by the end
of September.  The judge would “want to take the time to get all the
information” in a trial, Elson said in an interview.  “He’s a
very careful judge.”  A decision, either valuing the shares or forcing a trial,
could come as soon as next month, although there’s no solid
deadline.  Marchionne, chief executive officer of both Fiat and  Auburn
Hills , Michigan-based Chrysler, said this month that he expected
a ruling on the option value by the “third quarter at the
latest.” A Fiat representative declined to comment further on
the chancery proceeding beyond Marchionne’s statement about the
timing.  Shares Fall  Fiat  dropped  as much as 11 cents, or 2 percent, to 5.43
euros and traded down 1.2 percent as of 9:26 a.m. in Milan. The
stock has gained 45 percent this year, valuing the Italian
automaker at 6.85 billion euros ($9.1 billion).  A decision by Parsons that the valuation dispute must go to
trial may push back a final ruling on the stock’s value for as
long as a year, said Larry Hamermesh, a Widener University
professor who specializes in Delaware corporate law.  “Since the parties still have to depose witnesses and get
ready for trial, it would be incredibly fast to get that all
done in six months. I’d say nine to 12 months is more
realistic,” the Delaware-based professor said. A trial “is the
most likely scenario,” he said.  Marchionne, 61, has spent the past four years working to
unify the companies so they can better compete with  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) ,  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)  He has said the
push to acquire the UAW trust’s shares is part of the
unification effort.  ‘Not Good’  “Uncertainty over Chrysler is not good,” said Philippe Houchois, an automotive analyst with UBS AG in  London . “It’s
not good for a company to have shareholders arguing, and
Marchionne is very aware of those things.” Houchois said he
thinks a deal can still be reached by the end of the year. Fiat
may pay as much as $4.5 billion for the entire 41.5 percent
holding, UBS estimates.  Chrysler has become Fiat’s reliable profit generator as the
Italian company struggles to end losses in  Europe , which totaled
704 million euros last year.  Marchionne has been counting on Chrysler and its 38
straight monthly U.S. sales gains to offset losses at Fiat’s
mass-market brands in Europe. Chrysler’s share of the U.S.
market has risen for three straight years, reaching 11.4 percent
in 2012, according to researcher Autodata Corp. Chrysler’s 2012
sales in its home market climbed 21 percent to 1.65 million
vehicles.  Chrysler reported first-quarter net income of $166 million
and maintained its forecast for full-year revenue of $72 billion
to $75 billion and net income of about $2.2 billion.  $10 Billion  Fiat may raise as much as $10 billion from banks to
increase its stake in Chrysler and to refinance both companies’
debt, people familiar with the matter said in May. As part of
those talks, Marchionne may refinance $5.65 billion in loans for
Fiat and Chrysler as soon as tomorrow, people familiar with the
matter said last week.  Marchionne, who wants to merge the two carmakers “as soon
as possible,” must first buy the remaining 41.5 percent in
Chrysler from the union’s trust. Fiat already owns 58.5 percent.
Marchionne said this month that talks with the fund are
“fundamentally” about price. He aims to buy the holding by the
end of the summer, the people said last month.  Marchionne said this month that Fiat was in talks with the
union about buying its stake and is seeking to complete a deal
before a potential Chrysler initial public offering requested by
the union is held.  Interpreting Formulas  The judge was asked to interpret the call-option
agreement’s formulas for valuing the first block of the UAW
trust’s stock up for sale, comprising more than 54,000 shares.  The agreement covers more than 270,000 shares in all, about
17 percent of the trust’s stake. Fiat Chairman John Elkann has
said they are looking to Parsons to provide a benchmark. The
trust’s entire Chrysler stake totals 670,000 shares.  The UAW trust’s lawyers argue the valuation formulas aren’t
clear and need interpretation. The union’s calculations put the
block of more than 54,000 shares at as much as $342 million,
more than twice Fiat’s estimate.  Fiat acquired a stake in Chrysler in June 2009 after the
U.S. carmaker sought  bankruptcy protection  from creditors and
accepted more than $8 billion in financing help from the U.S.
and Canadian governments.  As part of Chrysler’s Chapter 11 reorganization, the union
health-care trust wound up with the Chrysler stake and
promissory notes in exchange for wiping out retiree claims
against the carmaker in the bankruptcy case.  Health Provider  The  UAW’s Retiree Medical Benefits Trust  provides health-care services to more than 800,000 retired workers from
Chrysler, GM and Ford Motor Co. and their dependents, according
to the trust’s website. It’s the largest nongovernmental
purchaser of retiree health services in the U.S.  Fiat sued the UAW trust last year, alleging union officials
reneged on promises to let the carmaker buy shares subject to
the agreement at a value set by the accord. The agreement gives
Fiat the right to purchase a portion of the trust’s shares every
six months through June 2016.  The case turns on the agreement’s methods for assessing the
shares’ value. The valuation formulas are based, in part, on
Chrysler’s reported earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization for the four most recent financial
quarters, minus the carmaker’s “net industrial debt” as listed
on its most recent financial statement, according to court
filings.  ‘Borrowed Money’  The UAW argued in court papers that Fiat shouldn’t include
the promissory notes from the bankruptcy case in Chrysler’s debt
calculations. The notes don’t meet the call-option agreement’s
definition of “borrowed money” and improperly lowered the
carmaker’s value, the UAW contended. That adversely affected the
value of the trust’s shares, the union said.  Fiat said the notes met the definition of borrowed funds
and were properly included in the debt calculations.  At a hearing in April, Parsons said he was “kind of
leaning” toward the union’s position on the debt calculations
while indicating he wasn’t swayed by the UAW’s arguments that
the shares should be sold at current fair-market value,
according to court filings.  Parsons considered requests by Fiat and the union for
judgments “on the pleadings” for different questions in the
case during the April hearing. Such motions are made in hope of
winning a case without suffering the time and expense of a
trial.  Agreement’s Terms  Parsons could agree with Fiat’s position that the option
agreement’s terms are unambiguous and rule the block of 54,000
shares is worth $139.7 million, said  Randall Thomas , a
Vanderbilt University professor of law and business who follows
Delaware corporate cases.  “Chancery court judges do decide cases on motions for
judgment,” Thomas said in an interview.  If Parsons opts for a trial, he could put the case on track
for expedited discovery, accelerating the exchange of evidence
between the parties, which means it could be ready for a full
hearing within two to three months, Thomas added.  Elson, of the  University of Delaware , doesn’t anticipate
that happening. Given the complexities of the valuation case and
the fact that “there’s a lot of money involved,” Elson said he
didn’t expect Parsons to decide at the pretrial stage.  “It’s a very complex case,” Elson said. “These kinds of
cases take time.”  The case is Fiat North America LLC v. UAW Retiree Medical
Benefits Trust, CA No. 7903, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  