-- Fiduciary Duty Rules Would Be Delayed Under House Panel’s Bill
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-06-19T21:32:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/fiduciary-duty-rules-would-be-delayed-under-house-panel-s-bill.html
U.S. efforts to boost financial
advisers’ accountabilty to retirement-plan participants would be
slowed under a measure advanced by House lawmakers today as part
of a package of revisions to the Dodd-Frank Act.  The House Financial Services Committee approved four bills,
including one that would make a Labor Department rule enhancing
the fiduciary duty of advisers to plans such as 401(k)s or IRAs
contingent on the issuance of an overlapping rule by the
Securities and Exchange Commission.  The legislation, which would need approval from the full
House and Senate as well as President  Barack Obama , would slow
Labor Department efforts to issue a revised proposal after
brokerages said an earlier version would cause them to drop
millions of accounts. The agency, which is ahead of the SEC in
writing its rule, had planned to issue it this year.  “Neither the SEC nor DOL have considered the serious,
adverse consequences that would befall retail investors if these
rules move forward,” said Representative Ann Wagner, a Missouri
Republican who wrote the House legislation. There is no
companion measure in the Senate, she said.  Wagner’s bill passed 44 to 13, with 13 Democrats supporting
it. Thirty-two  House Democrats , including 29 members of the
Congressional Black Caucus, last week urged the Labor Department
to narrow the scope of its latest proposal.  Retail investors typically rely on brokers or investment
advisers to help guide investment decisions. A 2011 SEC study
said consumers are often baffled by the distinction between
brokers and advisers, who work under different standards. The
study recommended a common fiduciary standard for those who
provide personalized investment advice to retail clients.  Customers’ Interest  Brokers earn commissions on sales and work under a
professional standard that requires them to promote investments
that are suitable for an investor. Registered investment
advisers work for set fees and have a fiduciary duty to provide
advice in the best interest of customers.  The SEC has been working on its plan for nearly three
years, and Commissioner Elisse B. Walter recently said it
wouldn’t be finished this year. In March, the SEC asked the
industry and other stakeholders for details on the costs and
benefits of requiring brokers to be held to a fiduciary
standard.  Systematically Disadvantaged  Wagner’s bill would prevent the Labor Department from
issuing its standard until 60 days after the SEC finishes its
rule. It would also create new hurdles for the SEC to act,
including having to show that retail customers are
systematically disadvantaged by the current standard.  “The premise of this bill -- that the DOL should not be
able to act on its own authority to protect retirement plan
participants until the SEC acts -- that’s just ridiculous on its
face,”  Barbara Roper , director of investor protection for the
 Consumer Federation of America , said in a phone interview.  The committee today also approved a bill that would repeal
the  Public Company Accounting Oversight Board ’s authority to
require companies to rotate audit firms. The bill passed the
committee unanimously.  Some PCAOB members have questioned the decades-long
relationship between some companies and their auditors, and said
 term limits  could help improve the quality of audits. The
European Union also is considering plans to force banks and
large listed companies to rotate the auditors they use.  “It is the board of directors, management and shareholders
who should ultimately make the decision about which accounting
firm should audit a public company’s financial statements, not
the PCAOB in  Washington ,” Representative  Jeb Hensarling , the
Texas Republican who leads the Financial Services Committee,
said today.  Compensation Ratio  Two other bills approved today would repeal Dodd-Frank
provisions affecting private-equity firms and public companies.
One would repeal the SEC’s authority to write a rule requiring
public companies to disclose the ratio of the chief executive
officer’s compensation to the median total pay of all employees.  The other would curb the Dodd-Frank requirement for some
private-equity fund advisers to register with the SEC. Those who
advise funds with outstanding debt that is less than two times
their invested capital would be exempt under the bill.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  