-- FIFA President Blatter’s Brazil Exit Surprises Hosts
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-06-19T20:37:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/fifa-president-blatter-s-brazil-exit-surprises-hosts.html
Brazil ’s Sports Ministry said it was
taken by surprise at the news that FIFA President Sepp Blatter
is leaving the country today to attend a  soccer tournament  in
 Turkey .  Blatter, who has been in Brazil for soccer’s Confederations
Cup, is heading to  Europe  to attend the opening of the Under-20
World Cup, FIFA said in a statement. Blatter’s exit comes as
protests continue in cities across Brazil, host of the 2014
World Cup championship. About 25,000 marchers rallied outside a
stadium in Fortaleza where Brazil is playing  Mexico  today,
according to the Globo network’s website. Protesters have
criticized the 30 billion reais ($13.6 billion) being spent on
projects linked to next year’s  World Cup .  The Sports Ministry said it had expected Blatter to remain
in the country for the entire tournament and was surprised by
FIFA’s announcement that its president was flying to Turkey,
said spokesman Paulo Rossi. The FIFA president had been expected
to accompany Sports Minister Aldo Rebelo to games in all six
host cities. Blatter has attended games in Brasilia, Rio and
Belo Horizonte since the tournament started.  “We learned the news just like you, from a press release
saying that he was going to Turkey because of the Under 20 World
Cup,” Rossi said by phone. “But he’s coming back next week so
we are going to the semi-finals.”  A FIFA official said by phone that Blatter’s schedule for
the Confederations Cup wasn’t fixed and that he had attended the
opening of previous Under 20 events. The official asked not to
be identified in accordance with internal policy.  Test Event  The Confederations Cup, a test event for the World Cup, has
been played against the backdrop of nationwide protests over
everything from rising bus fares to government corruption and
spending on the World Cup. Brazil’s President  Dilma Rousseff  and
Blatter were jeered by fans filling the stadium at the opening
game on June 12 in Brasilia.  Police today fired tear gas and used mace to disperse a
crowd that had broken through a barrier around the stadium in
Fortaleza, in northeast Brazil. Some of the protesters responded
by throwing stones.  Blatter, in an interview two days ago, said “people are
using the platform of football and the international media
presence to make certain demonstrations.”  Brazilian soccer legend Pele, the only player to be a part
of three World Cup victories, urged his compatriots to put aside
their political disputes and support the national squad.  “Let’s forget all this confusion that is happening in
Brazil, all those protests, and let’s see the national team as
our country, our blood,” Pele said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  