-- Fitch Says Nigeria Rating Hindered as Government Progress Slows
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2013-06-19T16:18:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/fitch-says-nigeria-rating-hindered-as-government-progress-slows.html
Slowing progress on government
reforms before 2015 elections in Nigeria, Africa’s second-largest economy, is keeping the country from getting a better
 credit rating , according to  Fitch Ratings .  “We are clearly in a pre-election period now in Nigeria
and we have seen a slowdown on the reform front,” Richard Fox,
Fitch’s London-based head of  Middle East  and Africa sovereign
ratings, said on a conference call today. “We judge Nigeria by
what they achieve and some of their more ambitious plans may not
come to fruition until after the election.”  Fitch’s comments come a month after Moody’s Investors
Service said Nigeria’s slow implementation of structural
economic reforms is limiting its chances of a credit-rating
upgrade, along with corruption, weak institutions and
vulnerability to oil-price drops. Fitch rates Nigeria at BB-,
three levels below investment grade. There’s “no reason” why
the country isn’t at investment grade, Fox said.  A proposed law to change regulation and funding of the
nation’s oil industry has been stalled in parliament since it
was first sent to the National Assembly in 2008 and “it’s
anybody’s guess if that’s going to emerge this side of the
election,” Fox said.  Fiscal provisions in the Petroleum Industry Bill seek to
raise Nigeria’s share of revenue to 73 percent from 61 percent,
Petroleum Minister Diezani Alison-Madueke said in September.
Energy companies operating in Nigeria say the terms will make
offshore oil exploration unprofitable.  Reserves, Inflation  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CHEV) ,
 Total SA (FP)  and  Eni SpA (ENI)  run joint ventures with the state-owned
Nigerian National Petroleum Corp., or NNPC, that pump more than
90 percent of the country’s oil.  The  reserves  of Africa’s biggest oil producer, worth $48.5
billion, aren’t back to where they were before a 2009 banking
crisis and need to improve, Fox said. While  inflation , which has
stayed below 10 percent this year, is a positive, Nigeria needs
a longer track record of lower price increases, he said.  Per-capita income estimated at $1,631 last year by the
 International Monetary Fund  “compares badly” with investment
grade countries, said Fox.  Nigeria’s $1 billion sovereign wealth fund, whose chief
executive officer said will start investing this month, has
“very little in it,” according to Fox.  Angola , Africa’s
second-largest oil producer, announced its own $5 billion fund
in October.  “The fiscal situation in  Nigeria  is very challenging to
understand,” said Fox. “Nigeria struggles to implement its
capital spending budget and this has been a big issue
politically.”  Northern Emergency  The government’s 2013 budget, approved in February by
President Goodluck Jonathan, set aside 1.6 trillion naira ($9.9
billion) for capital projects, compared with 2.3 trillion naira
for recurrent expenditure.  A state of emergency in three northeastern states declared
last month to combat increased militancy by Islamist insurgents
will probably have little negative effect on Nigeria’s economy,
said Fox.  Jonathan imposed emergency rule in Borno, Yobe and Adamawa
states on May 14 to step up the fight against militants who he
said were taking over parts of the country. Nigeria has faced
worsening sectarian turmoil in the north, where the government
has been battling Boko Haram since 2009.  The north “is not the economic power house of the
country,” said Fox. “As of today it’s not something we’re
thinking about too negatively.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  