-- Germany Plans 2014 Auction for 700-MHz Mobile Spectrum, FAZ Says
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2013-06-19T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/germany-plans-2014-auction-for-700-mhz-mobile-spectrum-faz-says.html
Germany  plans to auction a new batch
of long-range wireless spectrum to mobile service providers next
year to counter a capacity squeeze facing carriers like  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE)  and  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ,  Frankfurter Allgemeine
Zeitung  reported.  The country’s Federal Network Agency plans to allocate
frequencies in the 700-megahertz spectrum used by television
broadcasters to offset the increasing strain that transfers of
videos and music to mobile devices place on networks, the
newspaper said, citing internal documents. Agency officials
didn’t immediately respond to calls and an e-mail yesterday
seeking comment.  The first auction of licenses to use airwaves in the so-called digital dividend range, which have been used to roll out
long-term evolution, or LTE, signals in rural parts of the
country, raised 4.38 billion euros ($5.9 billion) in 2010. The
reported timing is earlier than expected and may put strain
especially on the finances of the smaller carriers, including
 Telefonica Deutschland Holding AG (O2D)  and Royal KPN NV, JPMorgan
Chase & Co. analyst Hannes Wittig said by phone.  “A 2014 date would increase the pressure on operators,”
said London-based Wittig. “Investors would probably worry most
about the financial impact on Telefonica Deutschland and KPN;
however, an earlier date could also be seen as a reason to
accelerate discussions regarding a potential merger of the two
smaller carriers.”  KPN, headquartered in the Hague, and  Telefonica SA (TEF) , the
Madrid-based parent of Telefonica Deutschland, last year dropped
discussions about a combination of their German units. KPN’s E-Plus and Telefonica Deutschland with its O2 brand vie for the
number three spot in that market.  Dividend Cut  KPN cut planned dividends after spending 1.35 billion euros
on wireless spectrum in its Dutch home market. Unlike Telefonica
Deutschland, which sold shares in an initial public offering
last year, KPN didn’t obtain any long-range frequencies in 2010.  The amount of spectrum of around 700 MHz is similar to the
amount of 800 MHz spectrum that Germany sold in the 2010
auction, Wladimir Bocquet, senior director of spectrum policy at
the wireless industry group GSMA, said in a phone interview.  The network regulator is also working on decisions for the
future allocation of old spectrum licenses expiring in 2016, FAZ
reported. Operators have called for these licenses to be
extended rather than redistributed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  