-- German Stocks Decline Before Federal Reserve Statement
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-06-20T07:03:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/german-stocks-drop-before-fed-decision-daimler-declines.html
(Corrects direction of  DAX Index (DAX)  in third paragraph.)  German stocks  declined, snapping a
three-day streak of gains, as investors awaited the outcome of a
Federal Reserve meeting for signs of the central bank’s plan for
stimulus.  Lanxess AG slid 3.5 percent after Warburg Research cut its
recommendation on the chemical manufacturer. EON SE and RWE AG,
 Germany ’s biggest utility companies, followed their European
peers lower. Celesio AG jumped the most since at least 1996
after Manager Magazin reported that CVS Caremark Corp. may buy
Franz Haniel & Cie GmbH’s stake in the drug wholesaler.  The DAX Index fell 0.4 percent to 8,197.08 at the close of
trading in Frankfurt, after earlier rising as much as 0.7
percent and falling 0.8 percent. The equity benchmark lost 1.5
percent last week on concern that the Fed will start to taper
its bond-purchase program in September. The broader HDAX Index
also fell 0.4 percent today.  “Investors want to hear some reassuring news and if they
don’t the markets could be volatile because they want to hear
that quantitative easing is not going to be withdrawn any time
soon, and that there is support for the economy,” said Justin Urquhart Stewart, who helps oversee about $6.8 billion at Seven
Investment Management in  London .  The Federal Open Market Committee ends its two-day meeting
today. Chairman Ben S. Bernanke holds a press conference after
the Fed announces its policy decision.  Lanxess, the chemical manufacturer that joined the DAX in
September, slid 3.5 percent to 52.07 euros. Warburg cut its
recommendation on the shares to sell from hold, saying it sees
no major improvement in underlying demand and pricing in the
second half of the year.  Utilities Fall  EON lost 1.2 percent to 13.06 euros, while RWE declined 1.7
percent to 25.91 euros. A gauge of utility stocks was among the
worst performers of the 19 industry groups on the Stoxx Europe
600 Index.  Celesio jumped 11 percent to 17.89 euros. Manager Magazin
reported that CVS may buy Haniel’s 50.1 percent stake in the
drug wholesaler for as much as 2 billion euros. Celesio Chief
Executive Office Markus Pinger has been in talks with CVS for
some time, according to the report, which cited people familiar
with the negotiations. A spokesman for Haniel said in a
telephone interview that the company had not held talks with
CVS.  Heidelberger Druckmaschinen AG rose 1 percent to 2.16
euros. Warburg Research upgraded the maker of printing
equipment, saying cost cuts will improve earnings.  The volume of shares changing hands in companies listed on
the DAX was 20 percent lower than the average of the past 30
days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in  Frankfurt  at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  