-- German Bonds Face Selloff at Denmark’s ATP on Trading Tax
-- B y   M a t t h e w   W i n k l e r ,   P e t e r   L e v r i n g   a n d   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2013-06-20T15:17:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/german-bonds-face-selloff-as-atp-urges-merkel-to-block-added-tax.html
Denmark ’s biggest pension fund,
which holds $36 billion of long-term German bonds, says it may
have to sell the debt unless Chancellor  Angela Merkel  moves to
block a tax on financial transactions.  Such a levy “would instantly destroy our business model
and would force us to invest differently,” Carsten Stendevad,
chief executive officer of the $140 billion ATP fund, said in an
interview at his office in Copenhagen. “The moment they would
do this, many investors would start looking for other safe
havens.”  Investors overseeing  Europe ’s pension savings are adding
their voice to bank industry warnings that a tax on financial
trades will miss its mark and end up hurting average citizens.
ATP estimates the levy would cost it “hundreds of millions of
dollars,” eroding pensioners’ returns. Merkel said last week
that the German government is listening to investor complaints
about the proposed levy and will take their views into account.  The yield on  Germany ’s bond maturing in 2044 gained six
basis points today to 2.47 percent as of 5:15 p.m. local time.  Moving ahead with a tax model that hits pension savers
“would obviously be a very bad thing to do,” Merkel said in a
June 14 interview at the Chancellery in Berlin. Still, she
restated her government’s commitment to some form of tax on
transactions, citing the disparity between value-added taxes on
 consumer goods  and “basically free” financial transactions.  Policy makers in Europe originally proposed the tax in an
effort to prevent a repeat of the worst financial crisis since
the Great Depression. European Union Tax Commissioner Algirdas Semeta has said the levy would encourage pension funds to avoid
secondary markets and stick to long-term investments.  ‘Pile of Bonds’  The proposal doesn’t take into account how pension funds
operate, said Guus Warringa, an Amsterdam-based board member and
chief legal counsel at APG Asset Management, which oversees 342
billion euros ($458 billion) in pension assets.  “Pension funds are indeed long-term investors, yet the
assumption they have a pile of bonds which they put into a safe
until they mature 20 years later is simply wrong,” Warringa
said. “Markets,  interest rates  change. It would imply we would
have had to keep our exposure to  Greece  unchanged. We wouldn’t
get away with such a policy.”  APG, the investment management unit of Heerlen,
Netherlands-based APG Algemene Pensioen Groep NV, would probably
“invest less in countries that have a financial transactions
tax,” he said.  Merkel said last week she’s talking to investors about the
financial transactions tax. “I know their concerns and we have
not come to the end of our deliberations,” she said.  Trading Tax  The EU unveiled its plan on Feb. 14 for a 0.1 percent tax
on stock and bond trades and 0.01 percent on derivatives trades
with ties to participating countries. To prevent traders from
escaping the levy by operating outside the tax zone, the EU plan
invokes “residence” and “issuance” ties to firms in
participating nations. That means, for example, that a French
bond traded in  London  would still be affected.  The taxes would be collected worldwide by Germany,  France 
and nine other EU nations that have signed up. Denmark, where
ATP is based, has rejected the tax in its current form, as has
the  Netherlands .  The proposal “will be an entirely different matter from
what was intended if it impacts those nations not participating
and disrupting the inner market,” Danish Economy Minister
 Margrethe Vestager  said in a June 14 interview during a
conference on the Danish island of Bornholm. “This will
obviously have consequences for Denmark, as it will for all of
the 16 EU nations that are not part of this.”  German Politics  Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union party, which faces
September elections, has backed a financial transaction tax. The
CDU is urging that the measure be introduced “as quickly as
possible,” while “safeguarding the interests” of Germany’s
financial industry, according to a draft of the party’s campaign
platform.  Stendevad, 40, who left his job as a managing director at
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  in  New York  to take the helm at ATP in April,
said efforts to rein in the financial industry are needed,
though the methods under consideration are proving clumsy.  “Even things with good intentions can have significant
unintended consequences,” Stendevad said. The proposed
financial tax is “a good example. The bill will be paid by the
Danish pensioners, not the banks,” he said.  Should the tax pass, the challenge for ATP would be to find
a suitable alternative to German bunds, he said. Other AAA rated
euro-region bonds such as those from  Finland  and the Netherlands
lack the liquidity ATP needs, while U.S. Treasury bonds have a
 currency risk , Stendevad said.  ATP already owns 70 percent of 30-year Danish  government
bonds  and the remaining stock is too small to fill the hole that
would be left if the fund sold its bunds, Stendevad said.  “You really have to think through all the unintended
consequences of these regulations,” Stendevad said.
“Regulation as retribution is not a good tool.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Winkler  in New York at 
 mwinkler@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net ;
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  