-- GF Plans China’s First U.S. REIT-Tracking Fund as Demand Rises
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-19T04:51:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/gf-plans-china-s-first-u-s-reit-tracking-fund-as-demand-rises.html
GF Fund Management Co., an asset-management unit of  China ’s fourth-largest brokerage, will next
month start the country’s first fund that tracks a U.S. property
index to meet rising demand from local investors.  The fund will seek to match the performance of MSCI US REIT
Index and invest through China’s QDII program, which allows
purchases of financial assets from within the country, Chairman
Wang Zhiwei told reporters in  Shanghai  today. Wang declined to
comment on how much his company targets to raise.  Real estate investment trusts are not traded in China,
where an increasing number of affluent Chinese are buying
properties overseas after the government tightened measures on
the real estate market to curb surging prices. Restrictions on
investing in foreign currencies and offshore capital markets
have limited options for local investors.  “The U.S. economy and property market are recovering,”
Wang said. “It’s a good time for such investment; it will be
good to start with tracking an index rather than actively
investing in properties or developers’ shares, since we are
still new to the foreign market.”  U.S. housing starts climbed 6.8 percent to a 914,000
annualized rate from a revised 856,000 in April, Commerce
Department figures showed yesterday in  Washington . Applications
for one-family home construction increased to a 622,000 pace,
the fastest since May 2008.  GF Fund, a unit of GF Securities Co. and based in China’s
southern business hub of Guangzhou, will accept public
subscriptions for the fund from July 8, Wang said.  Lion Fund Management Co.  started a fund last year with a
target to raise $500 million to $1 billion for China’s first
fund to invest in global REITs. The company plans to invest in
the U.S.,  Australia , Europe,  Singapore  and Hong Kong markets,
Chief Executive Officer Ao Chengwen said in August.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  