-- GM Passes Toyota to Win J.D. Power Quality Survey
-- B y   M e g a n   D u r i s i n   a n d   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-06-19T19:09:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/gm-passes-toyota-to-win-j-d-power-quality-survey-for-first-time.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  led one of the
auto industry’s most closely watched quality measures for the
first time since the survey began almost three decades ago,
pacing U.S. carmakers producing their best cars in a generation.  All four of GM’s U.S. brands were ranked above average in
J.D. Power & Associates’ Initial Quality Study, led by its GMC
truck brand, which trailed only  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Porsche sports-car line.  Chevrolet , Detroit-based GM’s biggest-selling brand,
ranked fifth in the market, leapfrogging  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s
namesake brand, which had the seventh-best score.  “If you were to ask me the question, what corporation has
the best quality in the entire industry, the answer would be
General Motors” for the first time,  David Sargent , J.D. Power
vice president of global vehicle research, said in a telephone
interview. The gap in quality of domestic cars to imports is now
“almost immaterial.”  The results are a shift in the 27-year history of a study
long dominated by Toyota and other import brands. Consumers
credited GM’s Chevrolet Silverado pickup,  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s
Mustang sports car and Chrysler Group LLC’s Town & Country
minivan for leading quality, more evidence that U.S. automakers’
lineups are the most competitive in decades.  The survey, conducted annually by  Westlake Village ,
California-based J.D. Power, tracks the number of consumer
complaints per 100 vehicles in the first 90 days of new  car
ownership . The market research firm revamped the study this year
by beginning to measure the quality of new technology such as
systems that warn drivers when they’re driving out of their lane
or have something in their blind spot.  GM’s Winners  Eight GM vehicles led their respective segments, including
five Chevrolets and one model each from its GMC, Cadillac and
Buick brands. Honda Motor Co.’s Honda,  Kia Motors Corp. (000270) ,  Mazda
Motor Corp. (7261)  and Porsche fielded two models that won segment
awards.  Toyota’s Lexus luxury line slipped to No. 3 after leading
all brands the two previous years. The LS large premium car is
Lexus’s only segment winner in 2013. The brand grabbed the most
awards each of the last four years and topped every segment that
it competed in just seven years ago.  The Toyota line was the only brand owned by Toyota or Honda
to improve in this year’s study, moving up two spots to No. 6.
It still trailed Chevrolet at No. 5. GM’s challenge is to
maintain its standings as the automaker rolls out new models
this year, and to change consumers’ perceptions that haven’t
caught up with reality,  J.D. Power ’s Sargent said.  Former Laggards  “If you went out on the street and asked 100 people who
has better quality, Chevrolet or Toyota, 90 people would say
Toyota,” he said. “The reality is, they’re essentially
identical and sort of have been for a few years now. People just
don’t give the domestics credit because for 30 years they were
laggards. You don’t overcome that reputation easily.”  While GM has matched Japanese quality, the company has so
many new models coming to market that it will be difficult to
repeat this year’s success, Sargent said today at an Automotive
Press Association briefing in Detroit. New and redesigned
vehicles tend to have more problems than carry-over models that
have had more time to resolve defects. GM has 18 new vehicles
being introduced this year to boost U.S. sales.  “I think if GM’s No. 1 as a corporation next year, I’ll be
surprised and they will be surprised.”  ‘Disappointing’ Toyota  Honda’s Acura premium line tied for sixth for the second
consecutive year, and the Tokyo-based company’s namesake brand
slipped three spots to No. 8. Scion, Toyota City, Japan-based
Toyota’s youth-oriented brand, fell seven spots to rank last.  “They will consider this disappointing,” J.D. Power’s
Sargent said of Toyota and Honda. “Toyota would expect  Lexus  to
be No. 1 and Toyota to be No. 2. That’s their mission. Honda
would expect to be in the top five. And they’re not.”  Of 11 brands owned by U.S. automakers, eight improved in
the rankings versus a year earlier, with Ford’s Lincoln luxury
line climbing one spot to match the industry average. The
namesake Ford line was unchanged at No. 27, as the Dearborn,
Michigan-based automaker’s Sync voice system and MyFord Touch
controls weighed on results.  While Ford has improved its touch-screen and voice-control
systems, that’s not translating to bigger gains in initial
quality scores because the availability of the technology is
spreading to more of its vehicles, Sargent said. Vehicles with
the Sync or MyFord Touch systems climbed to 79 percent of Ford’s
2013 car and truck sales, from 68 percent for year-earlier
models, the company said earlier this week.  “Ford is probably at its low point,” Sargent said. “As
we go forward, the improvements they’re making to their
technology will offset the fact that it’s in more vehicles.
We’ll probably see Ford start to rise, particularly as we see
some of the others introduce their versions of the technology.”  Chrysler Progress  Chrysler’s namesake brand surged 10 spots to No. 15, above
the industry average and its best showing since tying for 10th
in 2006. While the Dodge line rose three spots in the rankings
and Jeep and Fiat each climbed by one, they joined the Ram truck
brand in placing below the industry average.  “There is progress being made, but they still have a ways
to go,” Sargent said of Chrysler. “Most of their newer
vehicles are much better than some of the older ones, so as they
go through the process, things will get better. There’s a limit
to how much they can do in a short space of time.”  Chrysler is majority owned by Turin, Italy-based  Fiat SpA. (F) 
 Auburn Hills , Michigan-based Chrysler markets the Fiat brand in
the U.S.  Industry Progress  The Infiniti brand of Yokohama, Japan-based  Nissan Motor
Co. (7201) ’s Infiniti brand improved by two spots to No. 4, while its
namesake line plunged by 18 to No. 30.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and Kia, affiliates both based in  Seoul ,
tied with  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz with the No. 10 score.
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s BMW fell eight places to tie for
No. 18, below the industry average.  This year’s industry average was 113 problems per 100 cars,
compared with 102 in 2012. J.D. Power attributed the majority of
consumer complaints to technical design flaws rather than
manufacturing problems and said the industry’s average number of
issues rose in part because of the survey’s redesign.  “The manufacturers have gotten really, really good at
building high-quality products,” Sargent said. “Quality now is
not just ‘Does it work?’ It’s a matter of how it works and is it
simple and enjoyable to operate.”  J.D. Power’s study this year was based on responses from
more than 83,000 purchasers and lessees of 2013 model-year cars,
trucks and SUVs. The unit of  McGraw-Hill Financial Inc. (MHFI) 
conducted its survey between February and May.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Megan Durisin in Detroit at 
 mdurisin@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Trudell in Detroit at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  