-- GM Says China Luxury Vehicle Demand Slower Than Expected
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-19T03:33:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/gm-says-china-luxury-auto-demand-slowing-to-about-4-this-year.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , which broke
ground on a new Cadillac assembly plant in  China  today, forecast
demand for luxury autos will grow at a slower pace than the
total vehicle market this year.  Sales of premium cars in China will probably increase about
4 percent this year, or about half the pace that the automaker
had expected at the start of the year, Bob Socia, GM’s China
head, said in a briefing in Shanghai today. The automaker has
said it expects total industry sales to increase about 7 percent
to 8 percent this year.  Demand for luxury items from Swiss watches to  sports cars 
have slumped since President  Xi Jinping , who took over as
Communist Party secretary in November, ordered officials to cut
down on lavish spending and stepped up investigations into
graft. Sales in China, where German brands accounted for three
in every four premium cars sold, are slowing at a time when
European car deliveries are tumbling to a 20-year low.  “Even taking into consideration the crackdown on
corruption, calls for frugality and slower economic growth,
luxury car demand should hold at around 10 percent growth,”
said Han Weiqi, an auto analyst with CSC International Holdings
Ltd. in Shanghai. “GM’s estimate for 4 percent growth means
they expect the segment will be pretty sluggish.”  Cadillac Sales  GM aims to more than triple Cadillac sales by 2015 in China
to 100,000 as it brings out a new model every year through 2016.  Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson, in  Shanghai  for the
Cadillac factory ceremony, has said the luxury brand is a
priority in the company’s plan to invest $11 billion in China
through 2016. The automaker is targeting to win 10 percent of
China’s luxury market by 2020.  Luxury-vehicle sales rose at more than twice the pace of
the total passenger-vehicle market last year, according to
industry researcher LMC Automotive.  It will take some time for GM to catch up to Audi and
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG in luxury sales, Akerson said today,
though “as they say all long journeys start with a first
step.”  “You have to build a brand in a market like China,” he
said. “Twenty five, 30 years ago, you didn’t see many Audis in
the  United States , not that many BMWs. If you bring good
products to the market, then it’s up to us to sell, make the
public aware of the features, functionality and quality of the
car.”  Rising Incomes  Rising consumer incomes and an increase in manufacturing
capacity will help GM achieve its target to sell 5 million
vehicles in China by 2015, Akerson said. The Detroit-based
automaker is targeting to at least maintain its market share in
China, he said.  China became GM’s largest market in 2010 and while the
Detroit company lags behind luxury competitors, it’s No. 1 among
foreign automakers in total sales on growing deliveries of
Buick, Chevrolet and small, commercial vehicles sold under the
Wuling brand.  GM plans to almost double exports from China to as many as
130,000 vehicles this year, from 70,000 in 2012, targeting
 emerging markets , Socia said. There are no plans to export to
the U.S. from China, he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  