-- Goldman Sachs Drops Ebix Deal as Prosecutors Open Probe
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   G r e g   F a r r e l l
-- 2013-06-20T15:27:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/goldman-terminates-ebix-deal-after-u-s-prosecutors-open-probe.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  terminated
an agreement to acquire  Ebix Inc. (EBIX)  after the insurance software
maker said it was told that federal prosecutors had opened an
investigation. Ebix shares plunged the most in three years.  The U.S. Attorney in Atlanta wrote in a letter that it was
probing allegations of intentional misconduct, Ebix said
yesterday in a statement. The company previously disclosed that
it faced shareholder class-action lawsuits and a U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission probe over the accuracy of its public
statements to investors.  “The allegations in the class-action suits are without
merit,” Ebix Chief Executive Officer Robin Raina said in the
statement. “We want to thank Goldman Sachs for their interest
in acquiring Ebix and we are naturally disappointed that we
could not complete a transaction at this time.”  Ebix has been the target of anonymous short sellers citing
accounting and other irregularities. In February, the company
had its biggest one-day drop in almost 11 years in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading following a report claiming it hid a $65.8
million related-party loan to its Singapore subsidiary from U.S.
regulators.  Goldman Sachs, which had valued the purchase at
$820 million, agreed to pay $20 a share for Atlanta-based Ebix.  Shares Plunge  Ebix  fell  40 percent to $11.90 at 11:02 a.m. in New York.
The shares plunged as much as 50 percent earlier in the session,
their biggest intraday drop since May 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Due to this recent development, we are unable to move
forward with the proposed transaction,” Andrea Raphael, a
spokeswoman for New York-based Goldman Sachs, said in an e-mailed statement.  Ebix said it will comply with regulators and continue to
evaluate strategic options for the company. Neither company will
pay a termination fee, according to the statement.  The firm is “committed to fully cooperate with all the
regulatory authorities as they conduct their investigations,”
Pavan Bhalla, chairman of the board’s special committee, said in
the statement.  Robert Page, a spokesman for the U.S. Attorney’s office in
Atlanta, didn’t immediately respond to a call after regular
business hours seeking comment on the investigation.  Goldman Sachs affiliate Exchange Parent Corp. was set to
acquire Ebix, according to a May 1 regulatory filing. The bank
was pursuing the deal mainly with its own capital rather than
through private-equity funds, a person briefed on the matter
said then.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Farrell in New York at 
 gregfarrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  