-- Grassley Criticizes Potential $70 Million in IRS Bonuses
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-06-19T20:43:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/grassley-criticizes-potential-70-million-in-irs-bonuses.html
The  Internal Revenue Service  may be
nearing an agreement to pay unionized employees $70 million in
bonuses that aren’t legally required, said Republican Senator
 Charles Grassley .  A government-wide directive says such bonuses shouldn’t be
paid while automatic federal spending cuts are in effect,
Grassley of  Iowa  wrote in a letter to Daniel Werfel, the interim
chief of the IRS.  “While the IRS may claim that these bonuses are legally
required under the original bargaining unit agreement, that
claim would allegedly be inaccurate,” Grassley wrote in a
letter dated yesterday. “In fact, the original agreement allows
for the re-appropriation of such award funding in the event of
budgetary shortfall.”  The IRS said in a statement that it is “under a legal
obligation to comply with its collective bargaining agreement,
which specifies the terms by which awards are paid to
bargaining-unit employees.” About 80,000 of the agency’s
roughly 90,000 workers are unionized.  The IRS is “actively engaged” with the National Treasury
Employees Union on the matter, the agency said in its statement.
The IRS statement didn’t say whether it was reaching an
agreement with the union or whether it would pay the bonuses.  To make up for the shortfall caused by federal spending
cuts this year, the IRS is requiring employees to take five
furlough days. During that time, the agency is closed and
taxpayers’ calls aren’t answered.  Grassley’s letter said the IRS plans to reach an agreement
with the union today.  Talks Continuing  In a statement, the union president said discussions are
continuing.  “NTEU has had a negotiated performance awards program at
the IRS for decades, pursuant to the law and regulations which
specifically authorize agencies to implement such merit-based
incentive programs,” the union president,  Colleen Kelley , said
today in a statement.  She said the union’s position is that the awards are
legally required as part of the collective bargaining agreement
with the IRS.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  