-- Gyula Horn, Hungary Leader Who Cut Iron Curtain, Dies at 80
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-06-20T06:56:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/gyula-horn-hungarian-leader-who-cut-iron-curtain-dies-at-80.html
Gyula Horn, a former Hungarian prime
minister who helped trigger events that led to the fall of the
 Berlin Wall  when he symbolically cut the Iron Curtain in 1989,
has died. He was 80.  Horn, who was the communist regime’s last foreign minister
and later embraced free-market policies including the sale of
state assets to foreign investors as premier from 1994 to 1998,
died at a hospital in Budapest after a prolonged illness, the
government said on its website yesterday.  Horn’s journey took him from a young communist militant who
aided Soviet troops in crushing Hungary’s uprising in 1956 to
being a top diplomat who helped usher the country out of
Moscow’s sphere of influence and on a path to membership in the
European Union and NATO.  His defining moment came on June 27, 1989, when he joined
Austrian Foreign Minister Alois Mock in cutting the fence
separating the two countries, presaging the end of the  Cold War .  “Horn was one of the most well-known and well-respected
Hungarian politicians of the past several decades,” Laszlo Kovacs, who served as Horn’s foreign minister between 1994 and
1998, said yesterday in a telephone interview. “Horn was a
great proponent of ending communism and of tearing down the Iron
Curtain, even if he wasn’t the one who made the ultimate
decisions.”  The cutting ceremony, captured by television cameras,
prompted tens of thousands of East Germans to go to Hungary in
the hope of crossing over to  Austria  and then joining relatives
in  West Germany , on the other side of the Berlin Wall.  Rebuilt Fence  Lost in the symbolism of the event was the fact that the
ministers actually cut the only remaining section of the Iron
Curtain on the border as a decision had already been taken and
carried out to disassemble the physical barrier. The images were
also misleading because no official decision had been taken by
 Hungary  to open its western border.  “They actually had to rebuild the fence on a 200-meter
section so that they’d have something to cut through,” Miklos Nemeth, Hungary’s prime minister at the time, said in a 2009
 interview  with Naplo Online. “The only significance of that was
that we could further test the tolerance” of the Soviets.  It worked. The first East German refugees crossed into
Austria from Hungary on Aug. 19, 1989, during a civic gathering
on the border that came to be known as the Pan-European Picnic.
Tens of thousands followed after Sept. 10, 1989, when Horn
announced on the evening news that Hungary would officially open
its border the following day. The Berlin Wall came down two
months later.  Horn “cut open the Iron Curtain that had been dividing
 Europe  for 40 years,” German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle 
said in a  statement  yesterday. “When he a short time later
announced that thousands of citizens of the former East Germany
would be allowed to leave Hungary for the West, he ensured his
place in the history books.”  Socialist Leader  After Hungary’s transition to democracy, Horn helped lead
the Socialist Party, the successor to the communists, to power
for the first time after the transition to democracy in 1994.  As premier, Horn sold state companies, devalued the forint,
restricted imports and lured foreign investment, boosting growth
and winning approval from business executives while alienating
voters jolted by the vanishing social safety net they had grown
accustomed to during four decades of communist rule.  “We are wiping away the last remnants of Kadarism and
putting an end to the patronizing role of the state,” Horn
wrote in  TIME magazine  in 1996, in reference to long-time
communist leader Janos Kadar. He added that he turned into “a
European left-wing politician” as the communist system was
“antidemocratic, against achievement and performance.”  Born on July 5, 1932, into a poor, working-class family in
Budapest, Horn started working as a fifth grader to make ends
meet, according to his official  biography  on Parliament’s
website. His father was killed in 1944 by the Gestapo, the
secret police of the Nazis, Hungary’s allies during World War
II.  1956 Role  In the 1956 anti-Soviet uprising, which started as a
student movement and was later joined by Hungary’s reformist
communist government, Horn backed the Soviets, joining a local
militia to put down the revolt. The same year, he became a
member of the communist party led by Kadar, who was installed by
Moscow and ruled Hungary until 1988.  Horn started his career in the  Finance Ministry  before
joining the Foreign Ministry in 1959, rising through the ranks
after diplomatic postings in Eastern Europe.  While not image-conscious -- Horn was a chain-smoker,
tended to mumble and wore a head-brace for months following a
car accident in 1994 -- he cultivated his place in history as
the leader who pierced the Iron Curtain, drawing criticism from
historians and peers for inflating his role.  Four months before the symbolic fence-cutting ceremony in
1989, Nemeth, speaking in the Naplo interview, said he traveled
to Moscow to meet Soviet leader  Mikhail Gorbachev  and told him
that the border with Austria would be opened. The dismantling
started immediately after his return, Nemeth said.  Charlemagne Prize  The official opening of the border, in September, was
delayed by a few days because Nemeth rescheduled it after
officials including Horn leaked the date, Naplo said.  “Gyula was desperate, he thought that meant he wouldn’t be
the one making the announcement,” Nemeth said, according to
Naplo. “I calmed him down and said I’d keep my promise.”  Horn was awarded the Charlemagne Prize in 1990, presented
to individuals for the “most valuable contribution in the
services of Western European understanding and work for the
community, and in the services of humanity and world peace.”  At home, the last public event Horn attended was a party
for his 75th birthday in 2007 in Budapest, where Gorbachev was
among the guests. Days earlier, then-President Laszlo Solyom
rejected giving a state award to Horn, citing the former
premier’s lack of remorse about his actions in the anti-Soviet
uprising.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  