-- Microsoft Reverses Position on Xbox One Games Trading
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2013-06-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/microsoft-reverses-position-on-xbox-one-games.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , after losing an
initial face-off with  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s new PlayStation 4 console,
dropped curbs on trading games and the need for regular Internet
connections for its Xbox One home entertainment unit.  The console, after an initial one-time set-up, won’t need
to connect to the Web at least once every 24 hours to continue
playing a game, Don Mattrick, president of Microsoft’s
interactive entertainment unit, said in a blog posting
yesterday. The Redmond, Washington-based company also removed
restrictions on reselling, trading and lending used games.  Microsoft reversed policies it set on June 6 after being
viewed the loser by gamers and analysts last week as the rivals
showcased their new consoles at E3, the video-game industry’s
annual conference in  Los Angeles . Sony announced its PlayStation
4 would sell for $100 less than the $499 Xbox One and wouldn’t
limit users’ ability to buy, trade and resell used games.  “I have heard directly from many of you, read your
comments and listened to your feedback,” Mattrick said in the
post.  Microsoft dropped requirements that game discs could only
be resold through authorized retailers and can be given away
only once to friends who have been listed for at least 30 days.
Disc-based titles now can be shared without limitation,
according to the posting yesterday.  Original Policies  Microsoft set the original policies in a bid to deliver
seamless switching between games, movie downloads and Skype
video-calling, using persistent Web connections to reduce the
time it takes to load physical games, said  Michael Pachter , an
analyst with Wedbush Securities Inc. in Los Angeles.  “That just angered people because it took the choice away
from them about how they play,” Pachter said by telephone
yesterday. “By quickly dropping this issue, now they can get
back to the real debate with Sony about whether the price is
right based on what each offers you.”  The need for an Internet connection for disc-based titles
also provoked concern among some gamers about digital-rights
management policies and scenarios where Web connections are
spotty.  Microsoft’s first new Xbox in almost eight years uses voice
commands and motion sensing to recognize users and let them
shift between games, live TV and Skype through an improved
Kinect device that will come with the machine. Xbox 360
purchasers can opt not to buy it, and Sony will sell its own
motion-sensing equipment separately.  Poking Fun  Sony poked fun at Microsoft in a satirical video on YouTube
last week. The  clip  purports to be the “Official PlayStation
Used Game Instructional Video” and features Shuhei Yoshida,
president of Sony Computer Entertainment Worldwide Studios.  “This is how you share your games on PS4,” Yoshida says,
before cutting to a screen with the words: “Step One.” In the
next shot, he hands the game to a second person who says,
“Thanks,” and the video is over.  Microsoft fell 1.1 percent to $34.59 at the close in  New
York  yesterday, taking its gain for the year to 30 percent,
compared with a 14 percent advance for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  