-- IFC Postpones 2 Billion-Cedi Ghana Bond Sale as Rates Soar
-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 2013-06-19T05:18:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/ifc-postpones-2-billion-cedi-ghana-bond-sale-as-rates-soar.html
The  World Bank ’s lending unit is
holding off on plans to sell 2 billion cedis ($996 million) of
local-currency bonds in Ghana, where Treasury-bill  yields  are
among the highest in Africa.  “With rates in the 23 percent range, it would be very
difficult,” J.R. Rao, Washington-based principal treasury
officer at the International Finance Corp., said by phone this
month. He reiterated the comments yesterday in an e-mail. “Even
if you issue close to the government level, you’re going to pose
challenges to the investment of the proceeds.”  Ghana’s 91-day yields rose five basis points at the last
auction on June 14 to 23.1 percent, the highest in four months
and the second-highest in  Africa  after Malawi, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The IFC first announced plans to sell
local debt in January 2012.  Inflation surged for a fourth month to 10.9 percent in May,
remaining above the central bank’s target at a more than three-year high, the Ghana Statistical Service said on June 12.
Ghana’s  Finance Ministry  is trying to narrow a  budget deficit 
that reached 12.1 percent of gross domestic product last year
amid spending before December elections and state payrolls that
topped forecasts. The ministry targets a 9 percent shortfall
this year.  “The budget deficit has been more than expected,” Rao
said. Credit ratings agency Moody’s said in a note to clients on
June 10 the shortfall will remain elevated at 10 percent because
of wages and the effect of interest payments.  Nigerian Bonds  The IFC issues local-currency bonds to support the
development of  capital markets  and to raise money for private-sector development. It was in the advanced stages of filing a
prospectus in Ghana and the offer was approved by local
regulators, Rao said. The organization is now monitoring market
indicators before going forward with the offer, he said,
declining to give a time frame.  The IFC, which invested in Ghana’s HFC Bank Ltd. last month
and helped raise funds for the development of the country’s
first oil-exporting field, sold debt in  Nigeria  in February. It
raised 12 billion naira ($75 million), increasing the amount
from the 8 billion naira offered after receiving orders worth 20
billion naira.  When IFC sells the cedi bonds, the durations will depend on
what Ghanaian companies that will get the proceeds need, said
Andrew Cross, manager of IFC Treasury Client Solutions for
Africa. The terms will likely be five to 10 years, he said.  The
longest-term government debt offering is five years.  “A lot of it is subject to our clients needs,” Cross
said. “We’re thinking of extending the yield curve that exists
in  Ghana  already.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moses Mozart Dzawu in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  