-- LightSquared Not Acting on $2 Billion Offer, Lenders Say
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2013-06-19T15:51:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/lightsquared-not-acting-on-2-billion-offer-lenders-say-1-.html
LightSquared Inc. hasn’t acted on a
$2 billion cash offer from  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  Chairman  Charlie Ergen ’s wholly owned entity L-Band Acquisition Corp. since it
was received five weeks ago, a group of the bankrupt company’s
lenders said.  The lenders also said in court papers filed in  Manhattan 
bankruptcy court yesterday that Ergen’s SP Special Opportunities
LLC fund joined the lender group on June 13. The partially
redacted document, in which some information is under seal and
blacked out, said LightSquared is conflicted.  “An unconflicted debtor would promptly engage with LBAC,
execute a stalking horse agreement and move expeditiously to an
auction,” lawyers for the lenders said. “These Debtors,
however, have not met, negotiated terms, made a counter-offer or
otherwise engaged with LBAC in the nearly five weeks since the
offer was made.”  The lender group, which owns $1.38 billion of debt in the
company’s LP unit, includes Capital Research and Management Co.,
Cyrus Capital Partners LP, Solus Alternative Asset Management
LP, Intermarket Corp. and UBS AG, according to court papers. SP
Special Opportunities is the largest debt owner of the group,
with $818.8 million in secured loans, according to the records.  The group seeks emergency court permission to enforce the
terms of a court order that gives LightSquared exclusive rights
to file its own plan of reorganization.  LightSquared, which is controlled by Philip A. Falcone’s
Harbinger Capital Partners LLC, filed for bankruptcy in May 2012
listing assets of $4.48 billion and debt of $2.29 billion.  The case is In re LightSquared Inc., 12-12080,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New York
at   tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 