-- Illinois Pension Impasse Predicted in Penalty Jump: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a   a n d   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2013-06-19T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/illinois-pension-impasse-predicted-in-penalty-jump-muni-credit.html
Illinois borrowing costs are headed
for the biggest monthly increase since May 2012 as investors bet
two rating cuts won’t be enough to spur lawmakers to fix the
worst-funded U.S. state pension system.  The extra yield bond buyers demand on the state’s taxable
debt has jumped 0.25 percentage point this month, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. The rising borrowing costs and credit
reductions this month from Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch
Ratings are the backdrop for a special session set for today.
It’s the second called by Democratic Governor  Pat Quinn  in 10
months after lawmakers failed to deal with a $97 billion
unfunded pension liability before leaving the capital May 31.  Even as lawmakers prepared to convene, they acknowledged
the likelihood of failure. Democratic leaders are moving to
create a conference committee to develop a compromise, said
Rikeesha Phelon, spokeswoman for senate President John Cullerton. The governor will call another special session next
month, according to his spokeswoman, Brooke Anderson.  “Investor confidence for the state has been diminishing,”
said Joseph Gankiewicz, a credit analyst in Princeton,  New
Jersey , at BlackRock Inc., which oversees $114 billion of munis.
“They’ve had multiple chances to address this.”  July Session  Illinois’s five state pension systems had 43 percent of
assets needed to cover obligations in fiscal 2011, the lowest
ratio among U.S. states, Bloomberg data show. Quinn, 64, has
said coming up with a fix “has confounded legislatures and
governors for 70 years.”  Pension funding is a nationwide challenge. American
localities face more than $2 trillion in unfinanced retirement
obligations, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  Detroit , the insolvent Michigan city about 300 miles (480
kilometers) east of  Chicago , plans to cut pension benefits for
30,000 workers and retirees as it tries to avert a record
municipal bankruptcy. It defaulted on muni debt for the first
time last week.  Benefits are at the heart of the Illinois stalemate. House
Speaker Michael Madigan’s pension plan is designed to save $187
billion over 30 years. It would require state pensioners to pay
more for their retirement, an approach that Cullerton said
violates the state’s constitution. Cullerton proposed giving
employees a choice of pension or health-care reductions that
would save an estimated $50 billion.  The Chicago Democrats haven’t come up with a compromise,
resulting in the impasse.  Taxpayer Hit  Illinois is rated four steps above junk by  Standard &
Poor’s , Moody’s and Fitch, the lowest among states. Taxpayers
may be hit by the consequences of legislative inaction as soon
as next week, when the state plans to issue $1.3 billion of
general-obligation bonds, its biggest sale since May 2012.  Eric Friedland, head of muni research in New York at
Schroder Investment Management North America, said he’s “not
expecting any miracles to occur in one day.” The company
oversees about $2 billion in munis, including Illinois debt.  Now isn’t a good time to buy Illinois bonds because the
$3.7 trillion municipal market is on pace to decline for a
second straight month, and because of volatility in the state’s
debt after the rating cuts, Friedland said.  Illinois’s Cost  When  Illinois  lawmakers failed to pass a pension fix in
January, the state postponed a $500 million debt sale following
an S&P downgrade. This month’s offering will go on as planned
regardless of the legislature’s actions, said Abdon Pallasch,
the state’s assistant budget director.  “Failure to pass pension reform is going to cost Illinois
taxpayers more,” Pallasch said by telephone. “If the general
assembly were to take action, that would really help with the
sale.”  The prospect of pension measures reaching Quinn’s desk
spurred a rally in the state’s debt last month. The yield
penalty on taxable Illinois pension bonds maturing in June 2033
dropped by 0.45 percentage point in May after both chambers
passed bills. That was the biggest rally in at least three
years.  Instead, legislators left Springfield, the capital, May 31
without reaching a compromise, causing the spread on the pension
bonds to widen this month.  ‘Bipartisan Mess’  “It is an equal-opportunity, bipartisan mess,” U.S.
Senator Richard Durbin of Illinois, the chamber’s second-ranking
Democrat, said in an interview. “We’re in bad shape. We’ve got
to bust out and get this done.”  Durbin said the legislature should send the dueling bills
from Madigan and Cullerton to the state supreme court to
determine their constitutionality.  “Why don’t you make the Madigan option tested
constitutionally, and if his doesn’t meet the constitutional
test, then the default position is Cullerton’s,” Durbin said.  Cullerton and Madigan have been unable to use veto-proof
Democratic majorities in the senate and house to forge a
compromise. Even with a governor of the same party, the three
most powerful leaders in Springfield haven’t been able to agree
on a solution.  The pension squabble is increasingly complicated by
electoral politics.  Political Calculus  Quinn faces a challenge in the March primary from former
White House Chief of Staff Bill Daley, brother of former Chicago
Mayor  Richard M. Daley . State Attorney General Lisa Madigan,
daughter of the house speaker, is also considering running.  “In this horse race, the odds are not in favor of them
getting it done in this session,” said  Richard Ciccarone , chief
research officer at  Oak Brook , Illinois-based McDonnell
Investment Management LLC, which oversees $8 billion in munis.
“We’ll see if they can surprise us.”  In the municipal market this week, issuers such as Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport plan sales as yields are close
to a 15-month high.  At  2.34 percent , yields on benchmark 10-year munis compare
with  2.19 percent  for similar-maturity Treasuries.  The  ratio  of the  interest rates , a gauge of relative value,
has exceeded 100 percent on all but one day since May 29. The
greater the figure, the cheaper munis are compared with federal
securities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  