-- Tim Pynchon Set to Start High-Yield Muni Funds at Oppenheimer
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-06-19T18:12:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/tim-pynchon-set-to-start-high-yield-muni-funds-at-oppenheimer.html
Oppenheimer Asset Management Inc.
this year will begin buying riskier debt used to finance
institutions such as prisons and nursing homes, said Tim Pynchon, who will manage the high-yield municipal funds.  Pynchon, 53, who specializes in municipal debt rated below
investment grade, left Boston-based Pioneer Investment
Management Inc. in May after 13 years and joined Oppenheimer
Asset Management this month. The firm oversees about $1 billion
of investment-grade state and local debt, Pynchon said in a
telephone interview.  Investors snapping up safer securities in the wake of the
longest recession since the 1930s have pushed  interest rates 
below historical averages. That means firms must look for higher
relative yields from riskier investments to boost earnings.  “This market is really interesting right now,” said
Pynchon, who will remain in  Boston .  In the $3.7 trillion municipal-bond market, yields on
general-obligations maturing in 20 years were  4.16 percent  last
week, compared with the 10-year average of 4.42 percent,
according to a Bond Buyer index.  Oppenheimer Asset Management, a unit of  Oppenheimer
Holdings Inc. (OPY) , will begin buying high-yield municipal debt after
such securities gained in value in 2012 for the fourth straight
year, Barclays Plc data show.  High-yield munis have earned 0.93 percent this year
compared with 9.4 percent during the same time in 2012. Still,
riskier munis are beating the broader muni market’s 0.98 loss
this year.  “There are still high-yield bonds out there were you can
get a 7 percent yield,” Pynchon said. “To the degree that one
selects credits carefully and fits those in a portfolio, that
can create tremendous value.”  Pynchon plans to start the funds in the fourth quarter,
focusing on debt sold by continuing-care retirement communities,
nursing homes, airports, private prisons and charter schools.
Pynchon also plans to buy bonds repaid with tobacco-settlement
payments.  Pioneer High Income Municipal Fund (HIMYX) , which Pynchon ran,
earned 21.1 percent last year, compared with 18 percent for
Barclays’s high-yield muni index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  