-- Times Media to Expand TV and Radio Output in Africa Growth Plan
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2013-06-19T11:49:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/times-media-to-expand-tv-and-radio-output-in-africa-growth-plan.html
Times Media Group Ltd. (TMG) , a South
African publisher, will start a new television station and seek
growth opportunities in southern and west Africa as it begins to
rejig its portfolio to boost profit.  “We see our T.V. side as our growth side, so we’re going
to be investing and developing new channels because they are
profitable,” Chief Executive Officer Andrew Bonamour, 42, said
today in a telephone interview. A channel being developed with
satellite provider  DSTV  will “launch soon,” he said.  Times Media bought the 50 percent of newspaper producer
BDFM Publishers Ltd. it didn’t already own from Financial Times-owner  Pearson Plc (PSON)  in April. It publishes South African
newspapers Business Day and The Sunday Times. The Johannesburg-based company may also start a new radio station within the next
month, according to Bonamour.  Times Media will aim to raise “hundreds of millions” of
rand from the sale of assets no longer deemed part of the
company’s business model, Bonamour said. These include cinema
division Nu Metro and retail chain  Exclusive Books .  “Times Media over the last decade lost its way a bit and
invested in non-core assets where they didn’t have expertise,”
said Bonamour, who became CEO in January. “We’re hoping the
stuff that we’re disposing of is not going to have a massive
impact on our earnings. We will generate quite a bit from the
sales.”  The company plans to pay its first dividend since 2009,
Bonamour said, without giving further details. Its  shares  have
gained 37 percent this year, compared with a 3.7 percent rise in
the FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in Johannesburg at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  