-- IMF Warns of Irish Austerity Fatigue as Bailout Exit Looms
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-06-19T15:04:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/imf-warns-of-irish-austerity-fatigue-as-bailout-exit-looms.html
Ireland’s government should stick to
planned budget cuts as the nation heads for the bailout exit
door, the  International Monetary Fund  said, warning of growing
weariness with austerity across the economy.  The Irish government estimates an accord in February to
restructure the bailout of former Anglo Irish Bank Corp. will
yield 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) in annual savings from next
year. These shouldn’t be used to temper budget cuts as the state
may face once-off costs from the deal or be forced to inject
more capital into its surviving banks following stress tests
early next year, the Washington-based IMF said in a report
today.  “After six budgets, adjustment fatigue is growing,” the
IMF said. “Steady budgetary adjustment should be maintained to
safely reach the medium-term fiscal targets.”  Irish Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  is aiming to exit the
country’s three-year international bailout on time at the end of
the year. As a safety measure to underpin the nation’s full
return to bond markets, Ireland is expected to seek support from
the IMF if it decided to avail of a possible precautionary
 credit line  with the euro-area permanent rescue fund to bolster
its “durable return to market financing,” the Washington-based
fund said.  “We and the authorities can see certain advantages to
having a backstop,” Craig Beaumont, the IMF mission chief for
Ireland, said on a call with reporters today.  An European Stability Mechanism “backstop could cushion
financing against a range of potential risks in the intermediate
post-program period, and would also meet one of the conditions
for Ireland to qualify for” the European Central Bank Outright
Monetary Transactions bond-buying program, the IMF said.  Bank Tests  Separately, Ireland has pledged to carry out a thorough
assessment of its banks’ assets by November in preparation for
broader European bank stress tests, which have been delayed to
2014, the IMF said.  The country’s banks were ordered to raise 24 billion euros
following the last round of tests in 2011, most of which came
from the state, bringing its bank bailout bill to a gross 64
billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  