-- India’s Swaps Fall Toward One-Week Low on Rate-Cut Speculation
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2013-06-19T05:12:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/india-s-swaps-fall-toward-one-week-low-on-rate-cut-speculation.html
India ’s  interest-rate swaps  fell
toward a one-week low on speculation easing inflation will
create room for the central bank to add to three interest-rate
cuts this year.  Inflation, as measured by the wholesale-price index that is
frequently used for policy decisions, touched a 43-month low of
4.7 percent in May, official data showed last week. The phrase,
“room for further easing quite limited,” was dropped from the
central bank’s June 17 monetary policy report, a sign a more
neutral stance is being adopted, Barclays Plc Singapore-based
analysts Igor Arsenin and  Rohit Arora  wrote in a note today.  The one-year interest-rate swap, a derivative contract used
to guard against fluctuations in funding costs, fell one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 7.22 percent as of 10:05 a.m.
in Mumbai, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The rate touched
7.185 percent on June 17, the lowest level since June 7.  “The central bank’s tone in this policy wasn’t as hawkish
as it has been in the recent past,” said Srinivasa Raghavan,
the Mumbai-based executive vice president of treasury at
Dhanalaxmi Bank Ltd. “With inflation showing signs of easing,
the central bank will act sooner or later to spur growth.”  Asia ’s third-largest economy grew 5 percent in the year
ended March 31, the least in a decade, official data show.
Central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao kept the  repurchase rate 
unchanged at 7.25 percent on June 17 after cutting by 75 basis
points this year. The RBI will next review policy on July 30.  The yield on 8.15 percent government bonds due June 2022
rose one basis point to 7.49 percent, according to the central
bank’s trading system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  