-- Indiana Lets County Seek $1.3 Billion Fertilizer Deal
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-06-19T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/indiana-lets-county-seek-1-3-billion-fertilizer-deal.html
Governor Mike Pence won’t block
 Indiana ’s Posey County from selling $1.3 billion in bonds to
finance a fertilizer plant backed by a Pakistani company near
the Illinois state line.  Pence, a Republican, pulled state support from the project
in May because of concerns raised by the Pentagon that Lahore-based Fatima Group makes calcium ammonium nitrate fertilizer
used in explosives targeted at U.S. soldiers in Afghanistan.  “Governor Pence respects the prerogative of local
officials to continue to explore the possibility of moving
forward,” Christy Denault, a spokeswoman, said yesterday in a
statement. She said the governor “has instructed the Indiana
Finance Authority not to stand in the way of Posey County
officials pursuing the project on their own.”  Dropping state support jeopardized a $1.3 billion tax-exempt municipal-bond sale, which was set to be the biggest
muni-junk offering ever. It also imperiled 700 full-time jobs
the project would create in Indiana’s southwest corner. The
county is weighing the sale of six-month securities by July 1 to
refinance the state-issued notes, said  John Taylor , executive
director of the Posey County Economic Development Partnership.  The $1.3 billion that may be borrowed by the Posey County
Economic Development Commission on behalf of the Midwest
Fertilizer Corp., the plant developer co-owned by Fatima, would
be used to refinance the Indiana debt and effectively end the
state’s role in the project, according to Denault’s  statement .  Meeting Today  The commission plans to meet today to discuss the process
of refinancing the outstanding Indiana notes, Taylor said. The
project, which will cost almost $2 billion to build, is forecast
to generate $8.9 billion in economic activity in the region over
its first decade, he said. Construction will create about 2,500
temporary jobs and take three years, he said.  “We’ve been hopeful that the governor would change his
stance and approve the project,” Taylor said. “But we’re just
as thankful that he’s removed some of his restrictions in
allowing us to do what we need to do.”  Pence, 53, suspended the state’s backing when he took
office in January, citing U.S. Defense Department concerns that
Fatima’s Pakistani fertilizer plants produced material used in
improvised explosive devices in  Afghanistan . He cited a U.S.
general’s congressional testimony which said the company, one of
the biggest conglomerates in  Pakistan , wasn’t cooperative with
efforts to eliminate those threats to U.S. and allied forces.  New Development  Fatima has developed a less-volatile form of ammonium-nitrate fertilizer and has halted sales of its earlier product
in regions of Pakistan that border on Afghanistan, Syed Ali
Nasir, a company spokesman, said in March.  Municipal-bond investors have said the securities used to
back the project would probably be speculative grade, or junk.  If graded that way, the county offering would be a bigger
high-yield muni deal than a $1.2 billion sale by an Iowa agency
in April, also to finance a fertilizer plant. The debt was rated
three steps below investment grade by  Standard & Poor’s .  Fatima has said it would work with local officials to
“advance this critical project.”  Guggenheim Securities LLC would serve as the underwriter
for the six-month county notes, Taylor said. Guggenheim was also
senior manager for the state’s short-term issue to support the
project. Posey is using Barnes & Thornburg LLP as its bond
counsel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  