-- India’s Rupee Fluctuates Near Record Low on Fed Stimulus Concern
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-06-19T05:01:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/india-s-rupee-fluctuates-near-record-low-on-fed-stimulus-concern.html
The rupee swung between gains and
losses, trading 0.2 percent off an all-time low, as concern U.S.
policy makers will pare stimulus countered optimism  India ’s
government will allow more overseas investments.  The rupee fell 0.1 percent to 58.8550 per dollar as of
10:08 a.m. in Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
after rising as much as 0.3 percent. It touched a record low of
58.9850 per dollar on June 11 and closed at 58.7725 yesterday.  A finance ministry panel has recommended increasing foreign
investment limits in areas including defense, telecommunications
and retail, said three government officials with knowledge of
the matter. The rupee’s gains aren’t sustainable as investors
are concerned the U.S. Federal Reserve will reduce stimulus, and
the currency may weaken past 59 per dollar as India’s central
bank is unlikely to defend it unless it threatens to drop beyond
60, according to  IndusInd Bank Ltd. (IIB)   “The foreign direct investment news has provided some
relief, but this will not stay for long as the Fed will have to
signal some pullback in the quantitative easing, only the manner
and timing is undecided,” said J. Moses Harding, executive vice
president at IndusInd Bank in Mumbai. “This will not be good
news for India.”  One-month implied volatility, a gauge of expected moves in
the exchange rate used to price options, rose eight basis
points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 11.37 percent, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke will speak to reporters at the
end of the monetary authority’s two-day meeting today, almost a
month after he said stimulus measures could be scaled back if
the labor market shows sustainable improvement.  India Investment  Overseas investors should be able to own all of a telecom
company in India instead of the current limit of 74 percent,
according to the panel’s proposals, the unnamed government
officials said, asking not to be identified as the information
isn’t public. The ceiling in defense should be raised to 49
percent from 26 percent and in supermarkets to 74 percent from
51 percent, they said.  Global funds have cut  holdings  of Indian debt by $4.7
billion from a record $38.5 billion on May 21, as the premium
offered by 10-year sovereign bonds over U.S. Treasuries dropped
by 34 basis points. The Fed has been buying $85 billion of bonds
a month, a measure known as quantitative easing, to spur the
world’s largest economy. The cash has contributed to inflows
into higher-yielding  emerging markets .  Three-month onshore rupee forwards fell 0.1 percent from
yesterday to 59.76 per dollar, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Offshore non-deliverable contracts fell 0.3 percent
to 59.95. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set
price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in
dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  