-- Indonesia’s Opposition Party Rallies Against Fuel Price Increase
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2013-06-19T08:05:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/indonesia-s-opposition-party-rallies-against-fuel-price-increase.html
About 600 members of  Indonesia ’s
biggest opposition party protested in Jakarta today against a
government plan to raise subsidized fuel prices.  Supporters and officials of the Indonesian  Democratic Party 
of Struggle, or PDI-P, gathered in Central Jakarta and urged the
public to reject the proposed fuel policy. PDI-P, led by former
President Megawati Soekarnoputri, lost a parliament vote on June
17 to block approval of the revised 2013 state budget, which
paves the way to raise prices of subsidized fuel.  “We know we lost,” Ribka Tjiptaning, chairwoman of a
parliamentary commission for labor and health affairs, who
helped organize today’s protest, said during the demonstration.
“But as a PDI-P faction member I believe the struggle doesn’t
end there.”  Curbing energy subsidies, which cost the government 211.9
trillion rupiah ($21 billion) last year, will help narrow the
country’s  trade  and current-account deficits. Increasing fuel
prices would improve investor confidence in the economy after
the shortfalls made the rupiah  Asia ’s worst performing currency
after the Japanese yen over the past year.  The rupiah was little changed at 9,906 per  U.S. dollar  as
of 2:31 p.m. local time. It has slipped 2.8 percent this year.  The government plans to increase fuel prices this week,
Planning Minister Armida Alisjahbana said on June 17, when
parliament members voted 338 to 181 in favor of the 2013 revised
2013 state budget. Protests erupted across the nation during and
after the vote.  Living Costs  Part of the budget is a fuel compensation program which
President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono made a precondition for
raising fuel prices. The government expects the increase will
boost  inflation  to over 7 percent.  Yudhoyono has put off raising fuel prices since protests
derailed a planned increase last year, in a country where riots
spurred by soaring living costs helped oust dictator Suharto in
1998. About 14,770 police officers have been prepared for the
protests, including to guard the parliament complex and
presidential office, Rikwanto, a police spokesman in Jakarta,
said in a mobile-phone text message earlier today.  PDI-P is supported by Jakarta Governor Joko Widodo, who
leads popularity polls for the presidential election next year.
Megawati will decide if he runs, Widodo said on June 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  