-- Iran Hosts Men-Only Party to Celebrate Soccer World Cup Berth
-- B y   K a m b i z   F o r o o h a r
-- 2013-06-20T00:07:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/iran-hosts-men-only-party-to-celebrate-soccer-world-cup-berth.html
Iran  officially celebrated the
national soccer team’s qualification for the 2014  World Cup 
finals in  Brazil  at a “men-only” party yesterday in Azadi
Stadium in Tehran. Women were banned from entering.  Female fans were kept behind metal barriers away from the
official celebrations, according to the state-owned IRNA news
service.  Photographs  of women waving flags outside the stadium
were posted on social networking sites.  Hundreds of thousands of Iranians poured onto the streets
to party and dance after the national soccer team, popularly
known as Team Melli, unexpectedly beat  South Korea  on  June 18 .  The spontaneous celebration marked the second time in four 
days that Iranians partied on the streets. On Saturday, hundreds 
of thousands celebrated the surprise victory of Hassan Rohani, a
cleric backed by Iranian reformers, in presidential elections to
replace the outgoing  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad .  “Rohani, Rohani we’re going to the World Cup,” the crowd
chanted Tuesday night.  Restrictions on women attending soccer matches were imposed
after the 1979  Islamic Revolution . The games were deemed
inappropriate for women to attend to prevent them from mixing
with men and from seeing men wearing shorts. The ban was rigidly
enforced after Iran’s defeat of the U.S. in the 1998 World Cup led
to days of unofficial street parties.  “There is no legal basis for women to be banned from
soccer stadiums,” said Asieh Amini, an Iranian women’s rights
activist. The ban was not surprising, she added. “In Iran, you
take one step forward, two steps back.”  Ahmadinejad tried to overturn the ban in April 2006. He was
forced to reverse his decision in a month after pressure from
senior clerics including Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei.  Iranian society is rife with rules enforcing segregation of
men and women, such as single-sex swimming pools and beaches.  In 2006 then Iranian film “Offside” by Jafar Panahi that
highlighted the absurdity of the exclusion of women was itself
banned. The film tells the story of a girl who dresses up as a
boy to get inside the stadium, but is arrested and is kept with
other female impostors in detention.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kambiz Foroohar in  New York  at 
 kforoohar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  