-- Iraq’s Kurds to Export Oil by New Pipeline ‘Very Soon’
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2013-06-19T12:39:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/iraq-s-kurds-to-export-oil-by-new-pipeline-very-soon-.html
Iraq ’s Kurds will start exporting
crude by pipeline “very soon” after the completion of a new
link to the Turkish border by the end of September, the
Kurdistan Regional Government Natural Resources Minister said.  The pipeline to Fishkabour near the frontier with  Turkey ,
will eventually have a capacity of 1 million barrels a day by
2015, Ashti Hawrami said today at a conference in London. The
semi-autonomous region in northern Iraq is “well on its way”
to have enough oil to fill the line’s capacity, he said.  The landlocked, self-governed Kurdish enclave halted crude
exports through the Iraqi central government-run pipeline since
December. The Kurds are sparring with the Oil Ministry in
 Baghdad  over the sharing of revenue from crude sales and
payments owed to international companies with investments in
Kurdish oil fields such as  DNO International ASA (DNO)  and  Genel
Energy Plc. (GENL)  The KRG plans its own oil and natural gas pipelines
through neighboring Turkey as a step toward economic self-sufficiency.  When asked, Hawrami didn’t confirm whether the KRG would be
using the Iraqi central government’s export facilities in
Fishkabour or building its own.  “If the Kurds go ahead with the exports to Turkey, it will
have a big implication,” Robin Mills, head of consulting at
Dubai-based Manaar Energy Consulting and Project Management,
said in a telephone interview. “They want to develop their oil
and they’ve been struggling to do that because of the problems
of getting paid and the problems of having consistent exports,
so they kind of see this as the only way to go ahead.”  Trucking Oil  The Kurdish region is currently exporting 30,000 barrels a
day by truck to Turkey. Its oil-production capacity is due to
increase to 400,000 barrels a day by the end of the year from a
current 300,000 barrels a day, Hawrami said.  The Kurds will start crude production from six more  oil
fields  by the year-end, Hawrami said. The region has awarded
five oil exploration blocks to a Turkish entity, he said,
without identifying it.  “With this pipeline it puts the groundwork in place for
the deal with Turkey,” Mills said.  The KRG will also begin exporting natural gas to Turkey in
2016, Hawrami said.  Iraq has the world’s fifth-largest crude reserves,
according to data from  BP Plc. (BP/)  The country revised its own
estimate upward in April by almost 5 percent to 150 billion
barrels. The nation’s Kurdish region holds an additional 45
billion barrels, according to the KRG. Iraq produced 3.15
million barrels a day in May, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  