-- IRS Employee Used Politics Standard Denied by Executive
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-06-19T21:03:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/irs-employee-used-politics-standard-denied-by-executive.html
The  Internal Revenue Service  used a
numerical test for deciding whether nonprofit groups were too
political to qualify for a tax exemption, said an agency
employee, contradicting a former IRS executive’s statement.  Groups that devoted no more than 49 percent of their
activities to politics were deemed acceptable, IRS employee
Elizabeth Hofacre told congressional investigators, according to
a transcript reviewed by  Bloomberg News . Those decisions are at
the center of the controversy about the agency’s extra scrutiny
of anti-tax Tea Party groups’ applications.  “They can do 49 percent,” said Hofacre, a Cincinnati-based employee who assessed the first batch of Tea Party cases
in 2010. Fifty-one percent of activities “have to be for the
purpose of promoting social welfare,” she said.  For years, IRS officials have insisted that no such clear
practice exists and that they instead made judgment calls about
each group.  “We’ve never been that precise,”  Steven Miller , then the
acting IRS commissioner, told the House Ways and Means Committee
on May 17 when asked about a 49 percent standard.  Six congressional committees are investigating the IRS, as
are the agency’s inspector general and the  Justice Department .
At least four IRS executives left their jobs following
disclosure of the tougher scrutiny given to Tea Party cases.  Social Welfare  The portion of the tax law at issue is section 501(c)(4).
Groups seeking tax exemptions under that provision must be
organized “exclusively” for the purposes of promoting social
welfare, according to the statute. IRS regulations interpret
that to mean that such groups can’t have politics as their
primary purpose.  “There is not a cookie cutter,” Hofacre said. “It is
just based on their activities. You just have to review and
analyze their activities.”  Political involvement, in this case, means participation in
campaigns, not lobbying on issues.  Social welfare groups don’t have to pay taxes on any of
their earnings. Unlike charities, donations aren’t tax
deductible. The groups don’t have to disclose their donors, a
feature that has made them an attractive vehicle for political
activity.  Many of those groups have been relying on their lawyers’
advice to respect the 49 percent line, even without the IRS
saying so explicitly, said  Sheila Krumholz , executive director
of the Center for Responsive Politics, a Washington group that
researches the influence of money in politics.  ‘Safe Bet’  “The 49 percent rule seemed, I think, like a safe bet,”
she said.  As part of its response to the investigations, the IRS is
considering changes in how it handles requests for tax-exempt
status.  “It’s time for this country and our leaders to have an
honest conversation about the social welfare category,”
Krumholz said, adding that such a dialogue is necessary after
the  Supreme Court ’s 2010 decision in  Citizens United  that
removed restrictions on campaign donations by companies and
unions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  