-- MIT Researcher Says Holographic TV Could Debut in Next 10 Years
-- B y   C a l l i e   B o s t
-- 2013-06-19T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/mit-researcher-says-holographic-tv-could-debut-in-next-10-years.html
Holographic televisions could be in
living rooms in the next 10 years at the price of today’s two-dimensional sets because of technology being developed by
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology ’s  Media Lab , said  Michael
Bove , head of the lab’s Object-Based Media Group.  The lab, known for inventing the technology behind
electronic ink, has created a holographic chip that can support
the display of more than 50 gigapixels per second and simulate
real-life objects by bending projected light in a continuous
range of directions, eliminating the need for three-dimensional
glasses. The development of the chip, or spatial light
modulator, will be reported in the journal  Nature .  “The technology itself is one that’s easy and inexpensive
and, as far as we are aware and Nature is aware, has never been
applied to displays before,” Bove said, adding that the device
has cost “tens of dollars” to build and maintain.  The chip could be used in applications ranging from video
games to robotic surgery, he said.  His group is currently in talks with the lab’s corporate
members about acquiring the chip’s technology. While Bove
declined to name any specific companies involved in the
discussions, the lab’s corporate members include   LG Electronics
Inc. (066570)  and  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)   Samsung is the world’s biggest seller of 3-D televisions
with 27 percent of the market, followed by LG with 17.6 percent,
according to researcher NPD DisplaySearch. Sales of such TVs are
expected to reach $47.3 billion this year and are projected to
increase 26 percent to $59.7 billion in 2016, NPD said.  ‘Long-Term Project’  The development of the chip has been more than 20 years in
the making at MIT. Researchers at the institute had been working
with holograms since 1989 with late professor Stephen Benton,
who built the first video holographic display.  “This is a very long-term project, but it’s accelerated a
lot in this past couple of years,” Bove said. “This is not
just something that we woke up a few weeks ago and said, ‘Let’s
make holograms.’”  MIT graduate student  Daniel Smalley  has conducted most of
the current chip-design work as part of his doctoral research
project, Bove said. To reduce costs, the group has used off-the-shelf hardware such as Kinect, a camera designed for  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) ’s Xbox gaming console, to build a holographic system
around the chip.  The chip has successfully projected multiple holograms,
including a one of a graduate student dressed as Princess Leia
in “ Star Wars ,” Bove said.  “We would like to be able to do that as a full-size
person, so if you have to have a meeting with a person, you
could have the person in front of you with no screen involved,”
Bove said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Callie Bost in  New York  at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  