-- Mitsui O.S.K. Starts Probe of Ship Split in Two in Indian Ocean
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r
-- 2013-06-19T07:14:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/mitsui-o-s-k-starts-probe-of-ship-split-in-two-in-indian-ocean.html
Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd. (9104) , the
world’s largest merchant ship operator, started an investigation
with the builder of a container ship that broke into two parts
after its hull cracked amid a storm in the Indian Ocean.  The Tokyo-based shipping line is working with  Mitsubishi
Heavy Industries Ltd. (7011)  to find out what caused the MOL Comfort’s
hull to crack during “inclement weather” at about 7 a.m. local
time on June 17, the company  said  on its website today. Mitsui
O.S.K. sent a patrol boat to prepare for tugboats to tow the
container ship, which has split into the front and back sections
that are drifting in the middle of the Indian Ocean.  The ship, which was carrying  letters  among its cargo, was
sailing to Jeddah,  Saudi Arabia , from Singapore when it
encountered trouble, the ship operator said. The vessel was
sinking and the back ablaze, the U.S. Navy in Bahrain said
yesterday. Mitsui O.S.K. said it couldn’t confirm a fire.  There are “considerable amounts of oil on the water with
containers scattered in the area,” the U.S. Navy said. Mitsui
O.S.K. has said it can’t confirm whether a large volume of oil
has leaked.  The ship was built five years ago and can carry about 7,000
standard 20-foot containers. It was carrying a crew of 26,
comprising one Ukrainian, 11 Russians and 14 Filipinos, the
company said. All were rescued.  Nippon Kaiji Kyokai, a ship classifier, conducted a  special
survey  on the ship last month, according to its website. The
vessel is insured by  Japan  Ship Owners’ Mutual Protection and
Indemnity Association, according to its website.  Prior to Singapore, the ship went to Vietnam, according to
ship-tracking data compiled by Bloomberg. Before that it sailed
to China and Japan.  Mitsui O.S.K.  rose  1.1 percent to 385 yen at the close of
Tokyo trading. The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  added 1.8 percent.  In 2006, a Mitsui O.S.K. vessel carrying 4,700  Mazda Motor
Corp. (7261)  cars was damaged in rough seas and took on water. Mazda
decided to junk the vehicles after a two-month assessment to
determine whether any could be salvaged, the Hiroshima, Japan-based company said at the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  