-- Liverpool in Talks for Atsu, Nears Alberto Deal: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-06-19T07:13:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/liverpool-in-talks-for-atsu-nears-alberto-deal-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Advanced Talks  Liverpool is in advanced negotiations to sign Porto’s
Ghanaian winger Christian Atsu for as little as 3 million pounds
($4.7 million), the  Guardian reported .  Atsu, 21, has made it clear to Porto that he won’t sign a
new contract to replace his current agreement that expires next
year, the newspaper added.  Liverpool also expects to complete a deal in the next 48
hours to acquire attacking midfielder Luis Alberto from Sevilla
for 6 million pounds, the  Independent reported .  Mata, Mourinho  Barcelona may make a 30 million-pound bid for Chelsea’s
Juan Mata after Blues manager Jose Mourinho blocked a pay rise
due the Spaniard, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Playmaker Mata was entitled to the raise after his 19 goals
and 35 assists last season, though Mourinho is said to have
vetoed it, the newspaper reported.  Villas-Boas Resists PSG  Paris Saint-Germain will try to hire Fabio Capello as its
manager after Tottenham Hotspur’s Andre Villas-Boas resisted the
French champion’s approaches, the  Guardian reported .  Capello, the former England manager, has been PSG’s back-up
option as it seeks a replacement for Carlo Ancelotti, who is set
to take over at Real Madrid, the Guardian added.  United Favorite  Manchester United is the favorite to sign Barcelona
midfielder Thiago Alcantara, the  Sun reported .  The Premier League champion has tracked Thiago, 22, for
three years and is willing to offer Barca 15 million pounds to
fend off interest from Manchester City, the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  