-- Japan Stock Futures Drop as Fed Signals Stimulus Cut This Year
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-06-19T23:11:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/japan-stock-futures-drop-as-fed-signals-stimulus-cut-this-year.html
Japanese and Australian stock
futures fell after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said
the central bank may reduce the pace of asset purchases later
this year as economic risks subside.  American Depositary Receipts of Toyota Motor Corp., the
world’s largest carmaker, dropped 0.7 percent. ADRs of BHP
Billiton Ltd., the biggest mining firm, slid 0.6 percent. Those
of machinery-equipment maker  Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  gained 0.3 percent as
CLSA upgraded the shares to outperform.  Futures on  Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  expiring in
September closed at 13,160 in  Chicago , down from 13,260 at the
close in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 13,170
in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on  Australia ’s S&P/ASX
200 Index retreated 1.1 percent and New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index
fell 0.8 percent as a report showed the nation’s economic growth
slowed more than economists forecast last quarter.  “We thought Bernanke would be a little more dovish,”
Keith Poore, New Zealand-based head of investment strategy at
AMP Capital, which has about $126 billion in assets under
management, said in a telephone interview from Wellington.
“Markets expected asset purchases to continue unabated through
at least the end of this year given the recent employment and
inflation data. That doesn’t look to be the case at the moment,
so equities are coming off. Ultimately the tapering should be
positive for equities because it’s predicated on a stronger
economy, which is good for earnings.”  Jobless Rate  Bernanke said the Fed may begin tapering bond purchases
this year and end them in 2014 should the U.S. economy continue
to improve. The unemployment rate will fall to as low as 6.5
percent by the end of 2014, Fed officials predicted, possibly
reaching the central bank’s stated threshold to raise the
benchmark lending rate. The pace of its bond purchases,
currently at $85 billion a month, will also be influenced by
economic data, Bernanke said.  Futures on Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index gained 0.2 percent
and contracts on the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of
mainland Chinese companies trading in Hong Kong added 0.3
percent before the release of HSBC Holdings Plc’s so-called
China Flash Purchasing Manufacturing Index that is forecast by
economists to contract further in June.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. dropped 2.5 percent in New York
yesterday.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index, the benchmark regional
equities gauge, yesterday traded at 12.8 times average estimated
earnings compared with 14.8 for the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) 
and 13 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.1
percent, indicating the gauge may extend yesterday’s 1.4 percent
retreat, the biggest decline this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  