-- Japan Exports Surge Most Since 2010 in Boost for Abe: Economy
-- B y   M i o   C o x o n
-- 2013-06-19T03:19:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/japan-s-exports-surge-by-most-since-2010-in-boost-for-abenomics.html
Japan ’s exports rose more than
forecast in May as a weaker yen boosted the value of overseas
sales, underscoring the profit boon for manufacturers from Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe’s reflation campaign.  The  value of shipments  abroad increased 10 percent in May
from a year earlier, the most since 2010 and exceeding the 6.4
percent median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists, a Finance Ministry  report  showed in Tokyo. At the
same time,  export volume  dropped 4.8 percent.  Today’s data reflect an almost 12 percent slide in the yen
against the dollar in the past six months that stoked criticism
from trade partners including South Korea that Japan’s monetary
stimulus is distorting commerce. The key for Abe is that
exporters from  Nintendo Co. (7974)  to  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261)  use profit
gains to boost wages and investment at home.  “The yen’s exchange rate, even though it has been adjusted
a bit recently, is still weaker than last year’s level and
giving a lot of impetus for Japan’s export drive,” said Long Hanhua Wang, an economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in
Tokyo. “The volume of exports is still unimpressive as the
economic growth of  China  is stagnating and Europe’s expansion
remains weak.”  The nation’s 11th straight monthly trade deficit was 993.9
billion yen ($10.4 billion) as imports gained 10 percent,
today’s report showed. The shortfall was the third largest on
record, and the largest ever in May. The yen’s decline boosted
the costs of imports, while nuclear-plant shutdowns added to
energy demand.  The yen has fallen against 15 of 16 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg News in the past six months, with the
currency trading at 95.39 per dollar as of 11:37 a.m. in  Tokyo .
The Topix index rose 1.2 percent in morning trading, up 28
percent this year even after tumbling from a May 22 high.  U.S. Shipments  Shipments to the U.S.  rose the most in a year, jumping 16
percent by value from a year earlier as motor vehicle exports
there climbed 13 percent.  Exports to China  gained 8.3 percent,
the most since February 2011. Sales to the European Union fell
4.9 percent, dropping for a 20th month.  Export volume fell 4.8 percent in May from a year earlier,
the 12th consecutive monthly decline, and  import volumes  dropped
2.4 percent.  Japan’s economy grew an annualized 4.1 percent in the first
quarter of this year and is forecast to expand 2.9 percent in
the three months ending June 30, according to the median of
economist’s forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey.  Elsewhere in Asia today,  Malaysia  is forecast to report May
consumer prices rose at the same pace as in the previous month.
In Europe,  Sweden  will see releases on  consumer confidence  and
the unemployment rate. The U.S. Federal Reserve concludes a two-day meeting on monetary policy in  Washington , with Chairman Ben S. Bernanke set to give a press briefing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mio Coxon in Tokyo at 
 mcoxon1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  