-- Kerry to Meet Allies on Arms Shipments to Syrian Rebels
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2013-06-19T17:54:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/kerry-to-meet-allies-on-arms-shipments-to-syrian-rebels.html
U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry 
plans to meet this weekend with European and Mideast allies to
discuss what weapons to provide Syrian rebels, who face an
imminent offensive by regime troops in Aleppo and the Damascus
suburbs.  The meeting, to be held June 22 in Doha, is expected to
include officials from France, the U.K, Italy,  Saudi Arabia ,
 Turkey , Qatar,  Egypt , and Jordan, according to French officials,
who spoke about the meeting with reporters on the condition that
they not be identified.  The head of the rebels’ Supreme Military Command, Major
General Salim Idris, has given the friendly governments a
weapons wish list, ranging from non-military supplies to anti-tank and anti-aircraft weapons, according to the officials.
France is prepared to sign up for some of those, although the
officials wouldn’t say which ones. France won’t deliver weapons
without participation by the U.K and the U.S., the officials
said.  At the meeting in Qatar, the allies will seek a clearer
explanation of President  Barack Obama ’s policy following the
announcement that the U.S. will provide some military aid to the
rebels. While Obama authorized the Central Intelligence Agency
to provide light arms and training, the U.S. opposes sending
portable anti-aircraft weapons due to concern that they will
fall into the hands of terrorists, according to U.S. officials,
who asked not to be named discussing classified matters.  Sending Weapons  Obama, who had opposed sending weapons since the start of
the popular uprising in March 2011, shifted policy after the
rebels this month were defeated at al-Qusair as forces loyal to
President Bashar al-Assad were reinforced with fighters from
Lebanon-based Hezbollah and arms from Iran.  At least 93,000 people have been killed in  Syria  since
peaceful protests against Assad more than two years ago sparked
a civil war, the  United Nations  said in an analysis of
casualties.  The State Department announced today that Doha will be the
first stop on a trip by Kerry from June 21 to July 2. Subsequent
stops are in New Delhi;  Jeddah , Saudi Arabia; Kuwait City;
Amman, Jordan;  Jerusalem  and Bandar Seri Begawan, Brunei.  In New Delhi from June 23 to June 25, he will lead the
interagency delegation to the fourth annual U.S.-India Strategic
Dialogue, open the second annual U.S.-India Higher Education
Dialogue, deliver a policy speech on bilateral and regional
issues, and meet with young leaders and innovators at an event
highlighting U.S.-India cooperation on clean energy,  climate
change , science and technology, and poverty alleviation.  After talks with Saudi and Kuwaiti officials, Kerry travels
June 27 to June 29 to Amman and Jerusalem for meetings with
Jordanian, Israeli, and Palestinian Authority officials on
advancing Middle East peace.  The final stop on Kerry’s trip is Bandar Seri Begawan,
where he is scheduled to participate in several annual regional
conferences from June 30 to July 2.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net ;
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  