-- Kerry Woos Balking Karzai on Planned Afghan Peace Talks
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2013-06-19T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/kerry-woos-balking-karzai-on-planned-afghan-peace-talks.html
The U.S. worked to sustain plans for
Afghan peace talks after President  Hamid Karzai  balked over the
American role and the Taliban’s move to open an office under the
name it used when it controlled Afghanistan.  U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry , in phone calls during
the past two days, pressed Karzai to follow through on his
commitment to send members of his Afghan High Peace Council to
Qatar for talks with Taliban representatives in coming days.  The Taliban opened its political office in Doha, Qatar, on
June 18 as a venue for talks after more than a year of stalled
efforts toward a dialogue. The U.S., in a bit of diplomatic
choreography, announced plans to send a delegation for
discussions, which it said would be followed by Karzai’s
representatives.  Within 24 hours, the plan hit obstacles, as Karzai said his
government wouldn’t take part until the peace process is fully
led by Afghans. In addition, he objected to a sign on the
Taliban’s Doha office labeling it as the Political Office of the
Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan, the formal name of the Taliban
government the U.S. toppled in the 2001 invasion.  Qatari officials removed the sign yesterday, and Kerry --
who spoke with the Afghan president the night of June 18 and
yesterday -- reiterated to Karzai “the fact that we do not
recognize the name Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan,” State
Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki told reporters.  Even though U.S. officials are slated to meet first with
the Taliban representatives, the  peace process  is intended to be
“Afghan-led” and Afghan-to-Afghan with the U.S. playing a
supportive role, she said  Volatile Karzai  There was no further public comment yesterday from Karzai,
and Psaki said “we continue to coordinate and work with
Afghanistan” on the issues. A U.S. meeting with the Taliban is
likely in a few days, according to a State Department official
who asked not to be identified because the diplomacy is private.  Karzai’s actions highlighted his record as a volatile and
unpredictable ally, who frequently lashes out against the U.S.
even as he receives cash payments from the CIA and depends on
U.S. and allied forces for his survival.  Karzai also said that he was suspending discussions with
the U.S. on an accord governing the long-term presence of
American military trainers to protest what he called
“contradictions” between U.S. actions and statements in
pursuing peace with the Taliban.  The two moves by Karzai jeopardize the pillars supporting
President  Barack Obama ’s withdrawal strategy -- a peace process
and an accord to allow a limited American military force in
Afghanistan after 2014 in hopes of averting a Taliban takeover.  ‘Difficult Process’  Obama said yesterday the U.S. had “extensive
conversations” with Karzai before the Taliban office was
opened. At a news conference in Berlin with German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel , Obama said he anticipated there would be
friction.  Any effort to negotiate a peace “is  going to be a
difficult process,” Obama said. “They’ve been fighting for a
very long time.”  It’s unclear whether the Taliban are seeking a deal with
the Afghan government or are trying to run out the clock as the
U.S.-led coalition winds down its role with the withdrawal of
combat forces by the end of 2014. The talks were announced as
Afghan forces formally made the transition on June 18 to assume
responsibility for their country’s security.  To meet a U.S. condition for the talks, the Taliban
released a statement in Qatar saying it opposes the use of
Afghan soil for international terrorism operations and that it
supports an Afghan peace process.  ‘Islamic Emirate’  In Doha, Taliban spokesman Mohamad Naim on June 18 said
“we can’t say” that fighting in  Afghanistan  will stop before a
peace agreement is reached. The Taliban “considers it its
religious and national duty to gain independence from occupation
and, for that purpose, has utilized every legitimate” means and
will continue to do so, he said.  The U.S. has called publicly for reconciliation talks with
the Taliban since early 2010 and pursued covert contacts with
insurgents. The outreach was set back by numerous events,
including the assassination of the Afghan government’s chief
peace envoy and high-profile attacks on U.S. troops and the
American embassy in Afghanistan.  Until now, the Taliban had rejected talks with Karzai’s
government, characterizing it as a “puppet” regime.  The U.S. delegation will be led by James Dobbins, special
representative for Afghanistan and  Pakistan . The U.S.
involvement is intended to help facilitate an accord between the
Taliban and the Afghan government.  Since the October 2001 invasion to oust the Taliban regime
that was harboring al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden, the Pentagon
reports that more than 2,100 American service personnel have
died in Afghanistan. The Pentagon has spent $468.5 billion on
the Afghan war, according to figures from the Defense Department
Comptroller.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  