-- KGHM to Pay 1.96 Billion Zloty Dividend on State Demands
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2013-06-19T11:40:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/kghm-to-pay-1-96-billion-zloty-dividend-on-state-demands.html
KGHM Polska Miedz SA shareholders
approved paying out 1.96 billion zloty ($616.7 million) in
dividends, higher than proposed by the management, as the
government looks for ways to cut the widening budget deficit.  Shareholders approved a motion by the Treasury Ministry,
the controlling shareholder, to pay out 9.8 zloty a share,
compared with management’s proposal of 1.6 billion zloty, or 8
zloty a share, Shares fell 4 percent as the dividend was the
lowest approved in three years. The government proposed paying
the dividend in two parts.  Poland ’s Cabinet may raise more in dividends from state-controlled companies than the planned 5 billion zloty, Deputy
Treasury Minister Pawel Tamborski told PAP newswire this month.
As Poland faces the slowest economic growth in more than a
decade this year, its budget deficit stood at 87 percent of the
annual target at the end May as tax revenue decelerated.  “It’s quite a good compromise between the ability to
secure the future of the company and expectations of the owner”
said Chief Executive Officer  Herbert Wirth  at the shareholder
meeting in Lubin, southern Poland.  The decision on a higher dividend is in line with the
government’s previous policy. KGHM paid a record dividend of
28.34 zloty a share last year, accounting for 23 percent of all
budget revenue from payouts by publicly owned companies. The
government approved management’s proposal for the size of a
dividend only once in the last eight years.  Before KGHM, the ministry decided on higher dividends at
utilities Tauron Polska Energia SA and Energa SA, fertilizer
maker Grupa Azoty and gas company Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i
Gazownictwo SA.  PGE SA, PKO Bank Polski SA, PKN Orlen SA and Grupa Lotos SA
still have  to decide on payouts by the end of the month.  The dividend may push KGHM to debt markets for the first
time in a decade. The approved dividend means the company would
have to raise a similar amount in debt to finance the dividend
and unrelated investments, Wirth said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  