-- King Leaves Unfinished Business for Carney to Repair U.K. Banks
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-06-19T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/king-leaves-unfinished-business-for-carney-to-repair-u-k-banks.html
Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King 
said his successor and the U.K. banking industry have
“unfinished business” to do in reforming the financial system
and reviving the  U.K. economy .  “The future of banking will depend not only on changes to
leverage but also on a greater degree of responsibility by all
involved: the leaders of our banks, regulators and consumers,”
King said in his annual Mansion House speech in London late
yesterday. “We must restore trust in our banking system.”  King’s final address to finance industry leaders before
 Mark Carney  succeeds him on July 1 accompanied a speech by
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne , who said that the
economy is “healing” and pledged to privatize  Lloyds Banking
Group Plc (LLOY)  and consider a “bad bank” as part of a breakup of
state-owned  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc . King backed the
plans, and said that leverage at banks remains too high.  “It is difficult to imagine a banking sector like that
making a real contribution to any economic recovery,” King
said. “It must be time for decisive action.”  He said an example of such action is the  Prudential
Regulatory Authority ’s review of bank capital needs, which have
shown a shortfall of about 25 billion pounds ($39 billion)
relative to levels recommended by the Financial Policy
Committee. The PRA’s assessment of  capital requirements  for the
biggest banks will be published at 7:00 a.m. in London today.  Some Way  “It is too soon to say the job is done” given lenders’
leverage levels, he said. “There is clearly some way to go
before we can claim to have a really well-capitalized banking
system.”  Officials must “deal once and for all” with the problem
of banks that are too big to fail, King said. The Independent
Commission on Banking’s recommendations for a ring fence between
investment and commercial banking and a  leverage ratio  must be
put in place “as soon as possible.”  To ensure banks continue to lend, King also announced that
the BOE will expand its system for providing them with liquidity
by expanding the pool of collateral for auctions and making its
discount window cheaper and easier to access.  There are “clear signs that a recovery in the U.K., albeit
modest, is under way,” though “growth is not yet strong enough
to reduce the considerable margin of spare capacity in the
economy,” he said. “The weakness of the euro area and the
problems of the U.K. banking system continue to act as a drag on
growth. So the need to support the recovery remains.”  King’s Vote  Minutes of King’s final Monetary Policy Committee meeting
published yesterday show he was defeated for a fifth month in
his bid to expand bond purchases by 25 billion pounds. A six-member majority opted to hold the bond plan at  375 billion
pounds , citing inflation risks and signs of recovery.  While  inflation  has held above the central bank’s 2 percent
since December 2009, and the latest data show it accelerated to
2.7 percent in May, King said the outlook is for it to return to
the goal amid low pay rises and underlying pressure. “Inflation
targeting achieved its objective,” he said.  “The greater risk at present is that, over the next few
years, unemployment remains unnecessarily high,” he said. “It
is too soon to say that the job of securing recovery is
complete. There is a powerful case for more stimulus in the
short run.”  It’s also too soon to unwind policy that’s produced
“unsustainably low”  interest rates , he said. The bank has held
its key interest rate at a record low of 0.5 percent since March
2009. A recent jump in bond yields shouldn’t be confused with a
“return to normality,” King said.  “A rapid return to higher interest rates would do great
damage to the balance sheets of highly indebted households,
companies and, especially, financial institutions,” he said.
Still, “the real challenge -- on a global scale -- is to
rebalance the world economy. A failure to deal with global
imbalances will not only retard the recovery as a whole, but
worsen the scale of the adjustment ultimately needed. It will
inevitably be a bumpy ride.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  