-- Korean Won Erases Loss on Speculation Exporters Convert Earnings
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-06-19T08:08:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/korean-won-falls-for-second-day-before-fed-meeting-bonds-rise.html
The won erased an earlier loss on
speculation exporters repatriated income to take advantage of
the currency’s decline to near a two-month low.  The currency closed little changed at 1,130.59 per dollar
in  Seoul  after falling as much as 0.4 percent to 1,135.58,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That was near a  two-month low of 1,137.75 touched on June 11.  More than $2 trillion has been shaved from world markets
since Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said on May 22
the monetary authority could cut its $85 billion monthly bond
purchase program if there are signs of a sustained improvement
in the jobs outlook. The Fed will end a two-day meeting today
after U.S. data yesterday showed housing starts rose and living
costs increased less than forecast in May. Bank of Korea
Governor Kim Choong Soo said in Seoul today nations must
coordinate policy to tackle global liquidity issues.  “Exporters repatriated income from overseas to take
advantage of the strong dollar versus the won,” said Jeon Seung Ji, an analyst at Samsung Futures Inc. in Seoul. “The dollar
stayed strong as investors are waiting for what Bernanke can say
about the stimulus exit strategy.”  One-month implied volatility, a gauge of expected moves in
the exchange rate used to price options, rose 10 basis points,
or 0.1 percentage point, to 10.68 percent.  Stabilizing Flows  A disorderly U.S. exit from the bond purchase program,
known as quantitative easing, could burden South Korean
financial institutions as government bond yields will rise,
Financial Supervisory Service Governor Choi Soo Hyun said in a
statement today. Stabilizing foreign currency flows is
“increasingly important,” he added.  Overseas investors sold more South Korean stocks than they
bought for the ninth day, the longest streak in two months,
adding to $3.29 billion of net sales this month through
yesterday, according to exchange data. Credit Agricole SA
analysts including Hong Kong-based Mitul Kotecha today cut their
forecast for the won to 1,140 versus the dollar by the end of
September from 1,105 earlier.  Investors pulled a record $14.4 billion from global debt
funds in the week to June 12, Citigroup Inc. reported June 14,
citing EPFR data.  The yield on the 2.75 percent sovereign bonds due March
2018 was steady at 2.98 percent, prices from Korea Exchange Inc.
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  