-- Koruna Weakens as Tomsik Says Ready to Intervene: Prague Mover
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2013-06-19T14:02:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/koruna-weakens-as-tomsik-says-ready-to-intervene-prague-mover.html
The Czech koruna depreciated for a
second day as Deputy Governor  Vladimir Tomsik  signaled the
central bank won’t tolerate currency gains during a recession.  The koruna weakened 0.3 percent to 25.687 per euro by 1:42
p.m. in  Prague , paring its advance over the past month to 1.4
percent, the second-best performance among the world’s 31 major
currencies monitored by Bloomberg, after the Japanese yen.  Excessive koruna gains would hamper an economic recovery,
Tomsik said in an interview with Prague-based Hospodarske Noviny
today, adding that he’s ready to sell the currency if looser
conditions are needed. Inflation below the Czech National Bank’s
target is boosting the case for an intervention, board member
Lubomir Lizal said in an interview with  Bloomberg News  published
yesterday.  “The CNB is again surprised by a slower inflation, and its
next prognosis is probably going to further weaken its ideal
koruna exchange rate,” analysts Jan Cermak and Jan Bures at
CSOB AS in Prague wrote in a report to clients today. “Room for
koruna appreciation is very limited at these levels. More likely
is the currency will now test levels around 26.”  The koruna is 4.5 percent weaker than on Sept. 17, a day
before the CNB first signaled readiness to sell the currency to
avert deflation. The economy contracted for six quarters through
March, prompting to central bank to cut its main  interest rate 
to 0.05 percent last year and debate koruna interventions.  “If there is need to stabilize inflation expectations and
maintain a low-inflationary and stable economic development, I
am personally ready to use the next monetary-policy tool, which
is undoubtedly currency interventions,” Tomsik was cited by
Hospodarske Noviny as saying. “Excessive optimism could trigger
disproportional strengthening of the koruna, which would only
delay the economic recovery.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at   wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  