-- N.Z. Green Party Seeks to Limit Central Bank Governor’s Power
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-06-19T01:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/n-z-green-party-seeks-to-limit-central-bank-governor-s-power.html
New Zealand ’s  Green Party  is seeking
to limit the power of the nation’s central bank governor by
removing his right to take  interest-rate  decisions alone.  Reserve Bank of New Zealand Governor Graeme Wheeler should
be forced to set monetary policy together with the bank’s board,
which should include representatives from the export and
manufacturing industries, the opposition Green Party said in a
statement in Wellington today. It also proposed that the board
publish minutes of its rate discussions within two weeks.  “No other country in the OECD gives full responsibility
for the cash-rate decision to one person,” Greens co-leader
Russel Norman said. “This is antiquated. It leads to poorer
decisions, decisions which don’t reflect the wider economic
interests at stake when the official cash rate is set.”  Under existing law, New Zealand’s central bank governor
makes the final decision on  interest rates  after taking advice
from officials who don’t vote and whose deliberations aren’t
released publicly. The Greens are preparing a Members Bill on
the proposal, which may be drawn from a ballot and debated in
 parliament .  The opposition, comprising the Green, Labour, New Zealand
First and Mana parties, have 56 votes in the 120-seat parliament
while the  National Party  forms the government with control of 64
votes.  The opposition parties trail in opinion polls ahead of an
election which must be held by the end of 2014. If they can form
a government, the Greens will ensure the Reserve Bank board has
membership from exporting and manufacturing industries so its
decisions represent the broader economy, Norman said today.  “This draft bill will bring the  Reserve Bank  into the 21st
Century,” he said. “The U.K., U.S. and Australian central
banks all publish their minutes. Increased transparency will
result in stronger financial markets making them less prone to
shocks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  