-- Natural Gas Inventory Estimates Predict Above-Average Increase
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-06-19T20:33:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/natural-gas-inventory-estimates-predict-above-average-increase.html
Natural gas inventories rose by more
than the seasonal norm last week as mild weather limited fuel
use, according to  analyst forecasts  compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. stockpiles increased 89 billion cubic feet to 2.436
trillion in the seven days ended June 14, based on the median of
22  analyst estimates . The five-year average increase for the
period is 80 billion, Energy Information Administration data
show. Supplies expanded by 63 billion a year earlier.  The estimates range from increases of 85 billion to 95
billion cubic feet. The EIA, the statistical arm of the Energy
Department, is scheduled to release its weekly inventory report
at 10:30 a.m. tomorrow in  Washington .  Below-normal temperatures alternated with spurts of heat on
the East Coast and in the Midwest last week while Texas saw
above-normal readings, according to AccuWeather Inc. in State
College,  Pennsylvania . Inventory gains exceeded historic norms
the previous two reports as mild weather  crimped demand  for the
power-plant fuel to run air conditioners.  “Seasonally above-average temperatures do not cut it,”
John Kilduff, partner at Again Capital LLC and editor of the
Energy OverView newsletter in New York, wrote today. “Several
days in a row of 100 degree temperatures with high humidity”
are required to get a rally going.  Natural gas futures have gained 6.2 percent to $3.963 per
million British thermal units so far this week on the New York
Mercantile Exchange. Prices are up 18 percent this year.  Gas supplies in the week ended June 7 were 2.4 percent
 below  the five-year average for the period, down from 3 percent
the previous week, according to the EIA. A  deficit  to year-earlier levels narrowed for a ninth week, easing to 20 percent
from 21.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 Nmalik28@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  