-- The NBA’s Rocky Road to Playoff Fever
-- B y   D a v i d   G e o r g e   S u r d a m
-- 2013-06-19T16:03:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/nba-s-rocky-road-to-playoff-fever.html
The  San Antonio Spurs , one of two
teams competing for the  National Basketball Association 
championship this week, have nine international players. The
league itself has 85, and the NBA finals are  being broadcast  to
215 counties in 47 languages.  It’s all a far cry from the NBA’s provincial precursor, the
now-forgotten Basketball Association of America (BAA).
Nonetheless, as the place where the business of basketball
began, it’s worth remembering how the BAA gave the sport a
foothold in the U.S. and, eventually, the world.  The BAA was the bright idea of a group of hockey-arena
owners seeking a way to fill open dates during the long winters
in the Northeast. Why not launch a professional basketball
league? After all, Americans were flush with cash in 1946, and
many servicemen had recently become civilians. College
basketball was a tremendous hit, especially at  New York ’s
Madison Square Garden.  The BAA’s only competition was the National Basketball
League, or NBL, founded in 1937. While it boasted professional
basketball’s most recognizable player, George Mikan, of the
Chicago American Gears, most NBL teams were in smaller
Midwestern cities: the Red Skins of Sheboygan,  Wisconsin ; the
All Stars of Oshkosh; the Zollner Pistons of Fort Wayne,
 Indiana ; the Packers of Anderson, Indiana, and the Jeeps of
Toledo,  Ohio .  Major Cities  By contrast, the BAA set up shop in major cities across the
U.S.: New York,  Boston , Philadelphia, as well as the NBL’s home
turf of Chicago and  Detroit .  Demobilization from World War II meant there were lots of
players available. Unfortunately, the BAA quickly became a case
study in how not to run a professional sports league. The
owners, it is true, had arenas in the largest cities. Most,
however, either lacked sufficient capital or were unwilling to
invest in the league. They also failed to corral the best
players. And few owners had any experience with basketball.  They quickly discovered that owning a basketball team was
not for the faint of heart or thin of wallet. By December 1946,
several teams were teetering on the verge of collapse. All were
hemorrhaging money. The  New York Knicks  only had Madison Square
Garden for a handful of games; the club mostly played in a
nearby armory. Nor could owners hope for help from television,
which was in its infancy, with its amazing growth spurt years
away.  Only three of the 11 original BAA teams still exist: the
Knicks,  Boston Celtics  and the  Golden State Warriors 
(transplanted from Philadelphia). The latter two came close to
folding. The Celtics survived through the masochism of their
owner, Walter Brown. The Knicks were among the first teams to
attain a semblance of financial solvency, as more playing time
became available at Madison Square Garden. But several other
teams failed to survive the first few years.  Surviving BAA owners decided that competing with the NBL
was foolhardy, and enticed the stronger NBL teams to defect.
Eventually most of the NBL joined the BAA in the new  National
Basketball Association . For one bizarre season, 1949-50, 17
teams played. Demonstrating the new league’s instability, not
all teams played the same number of games in a season. The BAA
owners, however, solved the problem by shunting several of the
western NBL teams into a lackluster division. Teams in small
cities were unable to withstand the losses and folded. When the
dust settled in the mid-1950s, eight teams remained, five of
which were former NBL teams. Although it was almost bankrupt,
the BAA had managed to swallow another league and come out
ahead.  Money-Losing  Even with the infighting behind them, NBA owners continued
to lose money and the quality of play wasn’t pleasing. Fans and
journalists also wondered whether top college teams could defeat
NBA teams. The Harlem Globetrotters remained viable competitors
and cornered the market on top black players. NBA owners
desperately needed the large crowds the Globetrotters created,
and almost every team scheduled the Globetrotters to appear once
or twice a season in an exhibition game. Having the Globetrotter
game precede the NBA game meant losing the audience after the
exhibition contest, forcing the NBA teams to play in almost
empty arenas. Even so, this was an improvement over the BAA,
which had been forced to stage doubleheaders with high school
teams.  The first generation of NBA owners faced another challenge:
Their product was unattractive. Games were rife with intentional
fouling, roughhousing and stalling, and scores often were
ludicrously low. Consider, for example, the  Fort Wayne  Pistons’
 19-18 victory  over the Minneapolis Lakers in 1950. There were
many such low-point games, making it difficult for professional
basketball to attract many college ball fans.  In addition, as television came into its own, the owners
failed to use the medium to generate crowds.  Ned Irish , who was
president of the Knicks from 1946 to 1974, was surprised when a
local television station offered to pay him for telecast rights
in the late 1940s. The owners signed a modest national-television contract in the early 1950s, but they were so wary of
the effect the broadcasts would have on attendance that they
only allowed the worst games to be shown. As a result, the
league struggled to get a lucrative national-television contract
for decades.  Almost by serendipity, owners stumbled upon the 24-second
rule. They decided to showcase black players instead of reining
them in. It was only in the late 1950s and early ’60s, when  Bill Russell ,  Wilt Chamberlain ,  Oscar Robertson  and Elgin Baylor
arrived on court, that the NBA became the high-flying, crowd-pleasing, exciting -- and profitable -- game that modern fans
love.  ( David George Surdam  is an associate professor of economics
at the University of Northern Iowa. He is the author of six
books, including “The Rise of the National Basketball
Association” and the soon-to-be-published “ Run to Glory and
Profits: The Economic Rise of the National Football League
during the 1950s .”)  To contact the writer of this post:
David George Surdam  at  David.surdam@uni.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  