-- NCAA $6.4 Billion Threatened by Suit Over Player Likeness
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r   a n d   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-06-19T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/ncaa-6-4-billion-threatened-by-suit-over-player-likeness.html
Ed O’Bannon, the college basketball
player of the year in 1995, said he isn’t suing the  National
Collegiate Athletic Association  to get rich. It’s about
fairness.  The former  University of California-Los Angeles  forward is
challenging the right of college sports’ governing body,
conferences and schools to keep proceeds from selling the rights
to athletes’ likenesses to be used in such things as TV
broadcasts, video games and clothes. The plaintiffs say the case
may reduce the $6.4 billion in annual revenue that universities
get from athletics by as much as 50 percent.  “It’s a legitimate threat to the NCAA,” said  Michael
McCann , a law professor and director of the sports and
entertainment law institute at the University of  New Hampshire .
“The antitrust claims have logic behind them, namely that there
are industry actors -- the NCAA, college conferences, video game
publishers -- who have clearly made money off the images and
likenesses of players. Normally in law we are compensated” for
that.  A victory for O’Bannon, 40, might destroy the model that
has developed since Rutgers College defeated what is now
 Princeton University  in the first college  football game  144
years ago. Schools would have to share revenue with athletes,
then possibly drop money-losing sports to offset the cost. The
richest football and basketball teams probably would form
superconferences rich enough to play by the new rules, Duke
University law professor Paul Haagen said in an interview.  “It is difficult to see how the organization could survive
in anything like its current form were it to suffer a major loss
in this case,” Haagen said.  Class Hearing  Tomorrow, U.S. District Judge Claudia Wilken in Oakland,
 California , is scheduled to hear lawyers argue whether
O’Bannon’s suit, now combined with a lawsuit filed by former
 Arizona  State University quarterback Sam Keller, should become a
class action, allowing the plaintiffs’ attorneys to sue on
behalf of all college football and basketball players.  The antitrust plaintiffs are asking to represent and seek
damages for all former student athletes in the U.S. who competed
in Division I basketball or NCAA football’s top echelon and
whose images or names have been included in game footage or
video games since July 2005. In their request for a court order
restricting NCAA actions, the lawyers seek to represent all
current and former college athletes whose images or names may be
or have been included game footage or video games after they
stopped being NCAA athletes.  Signed Agreement  College athletes are required to sign an agreement
relinquishing their rights to profit from their images,
including after they graduate and are no longer subject to NCAA
rules, lawyers for O’Bannon and Keller say. The agreement is a
product of the NCAA’s effort to deprive them of compensation for
use of their images, so it’s unenforceable, the lawyers said in
court filings.  The action began almost four years ago when O’Bannon sued
the NCAA and its licensing company, alleging in a complaint that
they agreed to block him and other former college athletes from
getting paid for their likenesses in  Electronic Arts Inc. (EA)  sports
video games after they left college. O’Bannon’s case was
combined with Keller’s, who sued the NCAA and Electronic Arts
for using his likeness in video games without his permission.  The NCAA said its agreements with athletes are legal and
binding, NCAA attorney Donald Remy said in an interview.  Non-Revenue Sports  Wake Forest President Nathan Hatch, who chairs the NCAA
Division I board, has said that if revenue had to be shared with
athletes, his school probably would have to eliminate some non-revenue sports, a category that includes everything except
football and men’s basketball at most schools, to cut costs.  “The thing that might be crippling is the issue that
amateurism is now a sham; a 19th-century ideal for a certain
kind of athletic competition that the court said doesn’t exist
anymore,” Haagen said.  O’Bannon said comments like Hatch’s are scare tactics.
“There are billions of dollars being made,” he said. “There
is enough to go around.”  The NCAA’s revenue for 2011-12 was $871.6 million,
according to the governing body. NCAA managing director of
research Todd Petr said schools spent $11.7 billion on
intercollegiate sports, almost twice what they brought in, and
only 23 athletic departments make money on their programs,
according to court filings in the case.  Michael Hausfeld , attorney for the plaintiffs, said it’s
time to end the arcane notion of amateurism in college athletes.
The athletes spend more time in practice than they do in class,
he said.  Commercial Enterprise  “Intercollegiate athletics is not amateur at all, it’s a
commercial enterprise to make money, and as much as possible,”
Hausfeld said in an interview. “I think the public understands
that these are hybrids. You can call them semi-pros, pre-professionals, but not amateurs.”  A ruling by Wilken in O’Bannon’s and Keller’s favor would
expand the number of plaintiffs to include tens of thousands of
athletes whose interests would be represented, and who could
share in damages without having to file individual lawsuits.  McCann, of the University of New Hampshire, said plaintiffs
claims against the NCAA have never been litigated.  “This isn’t about whether college players should be
paid,” he said in a telephone interview. “It’s about their
image and likenesses, not their labor.”  NCAA’s Confidence  Remy, the NCAA attorney, said he is confident that the
governing body for college sports will win.  “The facts and the law are on the side of the NCAA and its
member institutions, so I am not concerned that the doomsday
scenario that some paint as a product of this litigation
ultimately will come to fruition,” he said.  Roger Noll , a retired economics professor at  Stanford
University  hired by the plaintiffs’ attorneys to calculate
damages, estimated that athletes should receive 50 percent of
revenue from licenses that use their images.  Remy said U.S. law forbids college athletes from being paid
based on the 1984 Supreme Court decision about football
television rights. The court ruled 7-2 in a lawsuit brought by
NCAA against the University of Oklahoma that the NCAA and its
member universities market “competition itself.”  “In order to preserve the character and quality of the
product, athletes must not be paid, must be required to attend
class, and the like,” Justice  John Paul Stevens  wrote for the
court’s majority. “The NCAA play a vital role in enabling
college football to preserve its character, and as a result
enables a product to be marketed which might otherwise be
unavailable.”  Post-Graduation  Though a loss might have major ramifications for the NCAA,
McCann said college sports would survive.  If money were placed in a fund to pay players for licensing
their images, and the money is paid after they graduate, that’s
different than paying them a salary.  “I don’t know what an appropriate definition for
amateurism is -- at least in today’s market,” McCann said.
“What is amateurism in an era where coaches are paid millions
of dollars, where television contracts for amateur games are
worth billions of dollars?  ‘‘If players are compensated, I’m of the view that college
sports would continue. It would make it more expensive for
schools.’’  Selling Cars  O’Bannon, meanwhile, is working as a car salesman at
Findlay Toyota in Henderson,  Nevada . After winning the John
Wooden Award in 1995 as college basketball’s most outstanding
player, he was selected by the  New Jersey Nets  with the ninth
pick in the National Basketball Association draft and signed a
$3.9 million contract. He averaged 5.0 points and 2.5 rebounds
during two seasons in the NBA. He played in  Europe , then went
back to UCLA to get his degree.  He insists he isn’t trying to get rich with his lawsuit.  ‘‘It had nothing to do with me actually picking up a check
or getting paid,” he said from his office at the car
dealership. “I thought it was illegal to use one’s likeness
without a person’s permission or compensation.  The case is Keller v. Electronic Arts Inc., 09-01967, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net ;
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  