-- Netflix to Expand Video Service in Netherlands This Year
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2013-06-19T20:07:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/netflix-to-expand-video-service-to-netherlands-this-year.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , the leading online
subscription video service, plans to expand to the Netherlands
this year, part of a more measured growth strategy after
stumbling in 2011.  The service will include films and TV shows from Hollywood,
content from local and worldwide producers, and original series,
including the Kevin Spacey political thriller “House of
Cards,” the Los Gatos, California-based company said today in a
statement. Prices and a start date will be announced later, said
Joris Evers, a Netflix spokesman.  The Netherlands move marks the company’s first geographic
expansion since Scandinavia last year. Chief Executive Officer
 Reed Hastings , stung by a 2011 investor and subscriber backlash
when he tried to raise prices in part to fund rapid
international growth, slowed his march to new overseas markets
in 2012 after incurring losses entering 43 Latin American
countries and territories.  Netflix rose 1.5 percent to $232.31 at the close in New
York. The stock remains the best performer in the  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  this year, with a gain of 151 percent.  With a population of  16.7 million , the Netherlands ranks
sixth in the world in households with high-speed Web access at
 80 percent , according to the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development. That’s slightly higher than France
and Germany. With larger populations, those two countries also
would cost Netflix more in content rights.  Many Competitors  Many Dutch speak English as a second language, helping
Netflix avoid some translation costs. In Scandinavia, the
streaming service is available in English, with local-language
subtitles, except for kids’ content, which is dubbed.  Netflix will compete against the video-on-demand services
of cable operators UPC, part of  Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA) , and  Ziggo
NV (ZIGGO) , as well as against  Royal KPN NV (KPN) ’s Web-delivered TV service,
HBO and Film1, and movie-rental services such as Pathe Thuis.
Another service,  Ximon,  offers one-time rentals, prepaid plans
and a 9.50 euro ($12.73) a month subscription for a library of
about 3,000 movies and television shows.  With more than 36 million customers globally, Netflix is
using cash from monthly subscriptions to acquire exclusive
content from Walt Disney Co.,  DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA)  and
other studios, and to fund its own slate of originals.  Hastings has said the strategy distinguishes Netflix from
other Web video suppliers, including Amazon.com Inc., the
largest Web retailer and Hulu LLC.  Netflix said in April it would raise capital “as needed”
to fund original programming while its expansion outside the
U.S. absorbs cash.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  