-- New Zealand Economy Slows as Drought Hurts Farms; Kiwi Drops
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-06-19T23:30:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/new-zealand-economic-growth-slows-as-drought-curbs-farm-output.html
New Zealand ’s economic growth slowed
more than forecast last quarter as the nation’s worst drought in
30 years curbed farm output, sending the currency lower.  Gross domestic product  rose 0.3 percent in the three months
ended March 31 from the previous quarter, when it expanded 1.5
percent,  Statistics New Zealand  said in a report today in
Wellington. Growth was slower than the 0.5 percent median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 11 economists.  The central bank last week estimated the drought’s impact
on milk collection and livestock slaughtering will curb growth
by 0.5 percentage point in the six months through June. The
economy is then predicted to pick up, buoyed by rebuilding in
earthquake-damaged Christchurch, which may prompt Reserve Bank
Governor Graeme Wheeler to start raising  interest rates .  “We expect strengthening base momentum to eventually flow
through into  core inflation ,”  Mark Smith , senior economist at
ANZ Bank New Zealand Ltd. in Wellington, said in an e-mailed
note. “The current lack of pricing pressure suggests no
immediate need for the RBNZ to raise the official cash rate.”  New Zealand’s dollar fell, buying 78.66 U.S. cents as of
11:28 a.m. in Wellington from 78.88 cents immediately before the
data.  The economy expanded 2.4 percent in the first quarter from
the year-earlier period, the report showed. Economists predicted
2.5 percent.  Faster Growth  The central bank on June 13 estimated the economy grew 0.5
percent in the quarter, and 2.4 percent year-on-year. It
projected annual growth will accelerate to 3.6 percent by the
second half of 2014, led by the NZ$40 billion ($31.4 billion)
rebuild in the South Island city of Christchurch, where houses,
roads, shops and commercial buildings were destroyed by
earthquakes in 2010-11.  Wheeler last week kept the  official cash rate  at a record-low 2.5 percent and said he expected to leave borrowing costs
unchanged until next year, citing benign inflation and a
reluctance to push the currency higher. Thirteen of 14
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  expect he will raise the
rate by March 31.  Farm output fell 4.7 percent in the quarter, largely due to
lower milk production, the statistics agency said. Cattle
slaughter numbers increased.  Drought Drag  New Zealand in March declared a drought across the entire
 North Island  including the province of Waikato, its biggest milk
producing region. Milk collection in the six months through May
fell 8.9 percent from the year earlier period, according to
Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd., the world’s biggest dairy
exporter.  “We expect the drought will impact on the economy for
several quarters, as lower herd numbers and conception rates
will affect future production,” GDP Project Manager Jason
Attewell said in a statement.  Construction gained 5.5 percent due to residential building
and construction services, today’s report showed. Earthquake
rebuilding is accelerating after it had been delayed by
aftershocks, issues over insurance and identification of which
land was no longer suitable to rebuild homes on because of
unstable soil. Increased architectural and engineering work in
Christchurch added to growth, the agency said.  Rio Cuts  Manufacturing increased in the quarter as livestock
slaughter boosted output from meat processors. Metal product
manufacturing fell as  Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  reduced output at its
South Island aluminum smelter, and this also led to lower demand
for electricity and a drop in generation, the agency said.  The expenditure measure of GDP advanced 0.3 percent in the
quarter, led by household spending and investment, today’s
report showed.  Spending on non-durable goods such as food and beverages
contributed most to the rise in consumption, the statistics
agency said. Purchases of audio-visual equipment and furniture
boosted durable goods spending.  Residential housing investment gained the most since the
third quarter of 2002, led by demand in Christchurch. Business
spending on plant, machinery and equipment fell, the agency
said.  Exports, which make up about 30 percent of the economy,
rose 2.5 percent, led by overseas shipments of meat and dairy
products, the data showed. Spending by tourists also increased.
Imports gained 2.8 percent in the quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  