-- Newcrest’s Mercer Should Step Down Over Charges, Group Says
-- B y   D a v i d   S t r i n g e r
-- 2013-06-19T00:28:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/newcrest-s-mercer-should-step-down-over-charges-group-says.html
Newcrest Mining Ltd. (NCM)  Chairman Don Mercer should step down after the company this month flagged it
will take a A$6 billion ($5.69 billion) writedown, according to
the Australian Shareholders’ Association.  “He’s been the chairman for many years, billions of
dollars have been lost, he should be held to account,” Stephen Mayne, an association spokesman said today in a phone interview.
“He shouldn’t be in charge at this year’s annual general
meeting.” Mercer’s office and Newcrest spokeswoman Kerrina
Watson didn’t immediately respond to phone calls seeking comment.  Newcrest,  Australia ’s largest gold producer, has seen its
market value fall more than A$2.6 billion this month to A$8.55
billion on June 18., less than the A$9.7 billion it paid to
acquire Lihir Gold Ltd. in 2010. The board needs to find a
successor to Mercer, a former chief executive officer of
 Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) , who shouldn’t seek
re-election at the shareholder meeting on Oct. 24, Mayne said.  “It’s a straight forward example of accountability for
poor performance,” Mayne said. “He was the chairman when the
Lihir Gold takeover was done, they’ve now written off billions
of dollars related to that.”  Newcrest said its expected writedown will include all A$3.6
billion of goodwill for the Lihir mine in  Papua New Guinea .  The association represents and votes on behalf of small
Australian investors in companies, including Newcrest. At the
gold producer’s 2012 annual general meeting, it voted on behalf
of 277 investors holding 388,288 shares, according to the
association’s website. The company has 766.5 million shares
outstanding, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Stringer in Melbourne at 
 dstringer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  