-- News Corp. Spinoff Pegs Value of Publishing Arm at $9.1B
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e   a n d   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-06-19T21:49:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/news-corp-spinoff-falls-in-sydney-as-murdoch-splits-businesses.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s publishing spinoff
began trading today at a market value of about $9.1 billion,
one-seventh the size of the entertainment side of the media
empire, underscoring the business’s growth challenges.  The “when-issued” trading will set stock prices and
values for the two companies when they officially split on June
28. The publishing company’s Class A shares, trading under the
ticker NWSAV, rose 3.4 percent to $15.80 at the close in New
York, compared with the opening price. The entertainment Class A
stock, FOXAV, gained less than a percent to $28.35, compared
with the opening price.  News Corp.’s television and movie company, which will be
renamed  21st Century Fox  after the split, is worth about $65
billion. News Corp. Chief Executive Officer  Rupert Murdoch 
agreed to the breakup last year after investors pressured him to
unshackle the two entities.  “People are going to be making the decision about whether
they keep both, or shed one and keep the other,” said Evan Lucas, a Melbourne-based markets strategist at trading-services
provider IG Markets Ltd. “There will be lots of volatility in
the trading until the official split takes place at the end of
next week.”  Investors get  one share  in the publisher, which will keep
the News Corp. moniker, for every four they already held in the
old company, which will be renamed after the split formally
takes place next week. Shareholders backed the spinoff at a
meeting last week.  Based on today’s trading, the print business will be the
 biggest  U.S. newspaper publisher by market capitalization,
compared with $5.5 billion for Gannett Co., $3.6 billion for
Washington Post Co. and $1.6 billion for  New York  Times Co.  Times, Sun  The new publishing company includes the Wall Street
Journal, the New York Post,  Australia ’s biggest newspaper
publisher, and the Times and Sun in the U.K., as well as a half
share of Australia’s largest pay-television operator, Foxtel.
HarperCollins book publishers and Amplify, a digital-education
business led by former New York City schools chancellor Joel Klein, round out the portfolio of the new News Corp.  The company said last month it will  write down  the value of
its publishing business by as much as $1.4 billion, blaming
slowing cash flow from its Australian and U.S. newspapers.  Robert Thomson will be chief executive officer of the
publishing group, with Murdoch serving as chairman. It will
start off with $2.6 billion in cash and approval to buy back
$500 million worth of stock after the split.  Murdoch will be chairman and CEO of 21st Century Fox and
his sons James and Lachlan will be on the board of both
companies.  News Corp. (NNC)  competes with Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP
in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  