-- Noncitizen Voting Makes Sense. Why Don’t Liberals Agree?
-- B y   P e t e r   S p i r o
-- 2013-06-19T22:00:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/noncitizen-voting-makes-sense-why-don-t-liberals-agree-.html
A Supreme Court ruling this week
confirmed federal supremacy over U.S. voter-registration
procedures, yet it didn’t challenge the power of states to set
the basic qualifications for being able to vote. Justice  Antonin Scalia ’s majority  opinion  in Arizona v. Inter Tribal Council of
Arizona was as much a reaffirmation of state prerogatives over
access to the ballot box as it was of federal power to determine
the procedures.  These rules overwhelmingly demand that voters have
citizenship. But why should that be the case? Citizenship hasn’t
always been a requirement to vote in the U.S. Nor should it be
in the future. The Constitution bars discrimination by states on
the basis of race, gender and age. It is mute on citizenship.  The New York City Council is seriously considering a
 measure  that would permit voting by legally resident noncitizens
in municipal elections after six months’ residence. If the
measure passes, it would surely energize similar initiatives in
other major metropolitan areas.  Noncitizen voting was once the norm, even in federal
elections. At the beginning of the 20th century, as many as 22
states and territories  allowed noncitizens to vote  not just for
local but also for national elections. Noncitizens legally voted
in every presidential election until 1924. The practice
coincided with an immigrant surge approximating today’s.  Global Model  Noncitizen voting in local elections is becoming a global
commonplace. European Union  member states  are required under the
1993  Maastricht Treaty  to extend the local franchise to those
who relocate from other member states. Many European countries
(including Belgium, Spain and Sweden) allow noncitizen voting in
local elections by immigrants from outside the EU, as well.  The U.K. allows resident citizens of Ireland and the
Commonwealth nations to vote in parliamentary elections. In
Portugal, citizens of Brazil can participate in national
elections.  New Zealand  and  Chile  allow permanent residents,
regardless of origin, to vote in national and local elections.  In the U.S. today, Takoma Park,  Maryland , remains the only
locality in which noncitizens can vote in local elections.
Recent ballot referendums to allow noncitizen voting have been
narrowly defeated in  San Francisco  and  Portland ,  Maine . The idea
has been floated in numerous municipalities, including  New
Haven ,  Connecticut ;  Washington ;  Chicago  and  Los Angeles .  The New York measure has the support of a majority of
members of the City Council. The legislation has drawn fire,
predictably from restrictionists on the right and more
surprisingly from pro-immigrant progressives. Josh Marshall, the
editor of the liberal news site “Talking Points Memo,”  calls 
noncitizen voting a “bad idea” because it “blurs the lines of
the political community.” New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ,
himself famously pro-immigrant,  said  through a spokesman that
“voting is the most important right we are granted as citizens
and you should have to go through the process of becoming a
citizen and declaring allegiance to this country before being
given that right.” (Bloomberg is the founder and majority owner
of Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News .)  These are liberal nationalist voices reflecting an
antiquated conception of citizenship. Old-world citizenship
framings of “loyalty” and “allegiance” aren’t easily juxtaposed
with the everyday tasks of local governance. Voters shouldn’t
have to be loyal to officials in Washington to responsibly
participate in matters dealing with police, schools and sewers.  Taxpayer Rights  Opponents of noncitizen voting ignore basic conceptions of
self-governance. Noncitizens are directly affected by local
government and pay local taxes. Accordingly, they should have
the same say as their neighbors in how they are governed. It was
on that theory that even undocumented immigrant parents were
allowed to vote in  New York  City school-board elections until
the elected board was  abolished  in 2002.  More than 35 percent of New Yorkers are foreign-born; many
remain noncitizens and many are economically challenged. Denying
the vote to so large a proportion of the community gives rise to
a new kind of rotten borough. (Wealthy immigrants have other
ways to exercise influence: Under federal law, they are
 permitted  to make federal campaign contributions to the same
extent that citizens can.)  Nationally, most immigrants are  subject  to a five-year
residency requirement before they can become citizens. By
contrast, a U.S. citizen who moves from  Alabama  to New York is
eligible to vote only 30 days later. Nationalists respond that
noncitizens can have their vote -- they just have to naturalize
to get it. Yet not every noncitizen is eligible.  For those who are eligible, the hassle and  expense  of
naturalization -- usually amounting to more than $800 in
application fees alone -- shouldn’t be an obstacle to local
political participation. Our contemporary constitutional
sensibilities are repelled by the old poll taxes and literacy
tests of our segregated past. Unfortunately, a citizenship
qualification for the local franchise imposes similar barriers
for a new class of mostly disempowered residents.  What liberal opponents of noncitizen voting seem to be
 missing  is that it would serve their agenda by getting
immigrants politically engaged. They should think of it as a
gateway right. Once immigrants become more involved at the local
level, they will have a greater incentive to seek admission to
the national polity.  Some immigrants could naturalize but don’t want to because
they don’t identify as Americans. But they might still identify
as Portlanders, Washingtonians, Angelenos; it is possible in a
globalized world to decouple local and national membership. One
can be a proud and committed New Yorker without being an
American.  Local citizenship, local voting: an  idea  that even Scalia
can live with.  ( Peter Spiro  is the Charles Weiner professor of law at
 Temple University ’s Beasley School of Law. He is a former law
clerk to Justice David Souter of the U.S. Supreme Court.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Spiro at  peter.spiro@temple.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Alex Bruns at  abruns@bloomberg.net  