-- North Dakota Abortion Clinic Can Fight Limits, Group Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-06-19T19:08:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/north-dakota-abortion-clinic-can-fight-limits-group-says.html
A North Dakota medical clinic’s
challenge to a state law requiring abortion providers to have
hospital admitting privileges was added to its 2011 suit over
other restrictions on the procedure, the Center for Reproductive
Rights said in a statement.  Today’s report, saying Judge Wickham Corwin in Fargo had
approved the addition, couldn’t immediately be confirmed in
court records. The New York-based center asked for the
challenges to be joined last month on behalf of the Red River
Women’s Clinic in Fargo, the state’s only abortion provider.  The filing augmented its earlier complaint challenging a
requirement that providers of drug-induced abortions have
written contracts with “emergency backup” doctors who have
admitting privileges, and imposing criminal penalties for
failing to do so.  While the challenge to that stricture has been tried before 
Corwin , the judge hasn’t ruled on whether it illegally restricts
abortion availability.  The new affiliation provision, scheduled to take effect
Aug. 1, requires all doctors who perform abortions to have
privileges at a hospital within 30 miles (48 kilometers) of
their facility and permission to perform those same procedures
at the hospital.  ‘Unconstitutionally Infringes’  The measure “unconstitutionally infringes upon a woman’s
fundamental right to chose to have an abortion,” according to
Red River’s supplemental complaint.  North Dakota Attorney General Wayne Stenehjem’s press
secretary, Liz Brocker, had no immediate comment on the ruling.  Governor Jack Dalrymple signed the bill March 26.  “The added requirement that the hospital privileges must
include allowing abortions to take place in their facility
greatly increases the chances that this measure will face a
court challenge,” Dalrymple said then in a press  statement .  “Nevertheless, it is a legitimate and new question for the
courts regarding a precise restriction on doctors who perform
abortions,” the governor said.  That same day, Dalrymple also signed legislation banning
almost all abortions after the detection of a fetal heartbeat,
potentially as soon as the sixth week of a pregnancy,
acknowledging it too would likely face legal challenge.  ‘Legitimate Attempt’  “This bill is nevertheless a legitimate attempt by a state
legislature to discover the boundaries of Roe v. Wade,” he
said, referring to the 1973 U.S. Supreme Court decision
establishing a woman’s constitutional right to an abortion
before a fetus is able to live outside the womb.  Violation of the heartbeat rule would constitute a felony,
while a breach of the hospital admitting privileges rule would
be a misdemeanor.  The case is MKB Management Corp., d/b/a Red River Women’s
Clinic v. Burdick, 09-2011-CV-02205, North Dakota District
Court, East Central Judicial District, Cass County (Fargo).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  