-- Novak Djokovic Joins Serena Williams as Top Seed at Wimbledon
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-06-19T09:26:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/novak-djokovic-joins-serena-williams-as-top-seed-at-wimbledon.html
Novak Djokovic and  Serena Williams 
were named as the top seeds at Wimbledon, the world’s only
grass-court tennis major.  Roger Federer of Switzerland -- a seven-time winner -- will
start the defense of the title he won last year as the third
seed. American Williams won her fifth title last year in the
event, which starts next week.  Djokovic, the 2011 champion from Serbia, pushes Britain’s
 Andy Murray , last year’s runner-up, into second spot. Wimbledon
starts June 24 at the All England Club in London.  Murray last year won his first major at the U.S. Open,
ending a 76-year title drought in the four Grand Slam events for
British men.  Fred Perry  is the last male from the British Isles
to have won the title at the All England Club, in 1936.  Rafael Nadal , who won his 12th major at  Roland Garros  ten
days ago beating fellow Spaniard  David Ferrer  in the final, was
seeded fifth, one spot behind Ferrer. Nadal is ranked fifth on
the ATP World Tour after missing seven months with a knee
injury. Nadal, a two-time champion at the All England Club, was
knocked out of Wimbledon in the second round last year. He
didn’t play again until February of this year to rest his knee.  By positioning Nadal as fifth seed, the organizers have set
up a potential quarterfinal meeting between the Spaniard and one
of the top four men.  Unlike the other three majors, who follow the rankings of
the men’s and women’s tennis tours when they seed players,
Wimbledon has its own formula.  The seeding order in the women’s draw at Wimbledon usually
follows the WTA rankings unless organizers need to make a change
to balance the draw. The men’s seeds are based on the ATP World
Tour rankings and performance on grass courts over the past two
years.  Serena’s elder sister and five-time champion Venus Williams
won’t play at Wimbledon this year because of a back injury.
Venus, who is ranked 34th on the women’s WTA tour, was diagnosed
with the energy-sapping Sjogren’s syndrome in 2011. She lost in
the opening round of the French Open last month.  Maria Sharapova  of Russia, the champion in 2004, is the
third seed, while Australian Open champion  Victoria Azarenka  of
Belarus is second in the women’s draw.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh on the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  