-- NuEnergy of Australia Optimistic on African Shale-Gas Finds
-- B y   S a r a   J e r v i n g
-- 2013-06-20T05:25:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/nuenergy-of-australia-optimistic-on-finding-shale-gas-in-africa.html
NuEnergy Gas Ltd. (NGY) , an Australian
power-development company, said it’s optimistic of making
significant shale-gas finds in eastern  Africa , where it has
begun exploration.  The company is starting to search for shale gas in Malawi,
has applied for permits in Tanzania and is looking to explore in
 Zambia ,  Mozambique  and other eastern African nations, Chairman
Graeme Robertson said in a phone interview on June 18.  While there has been a boom in shale-gas production
worldwide in nations including the U.S. and Australia, only a
handful of countries in Africa are working to develop reserves.
 South Africa , which has the world’s fifth-biggest reserves,
Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia, Libya and Egypt are among the
countries on the continent with the most shale-gas potential,
according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration.  “If you look at maps of shale gas resources in the world,
there is a big blank south of the Sahara,” Robertson said. “We
are quite optimistic that we will be able to find some good
shale-gas resources.”  The industry standard for obtaining shale gas is through
hydraulic fracturing or “fracking,” which is a drilling
process where large volumes of water, mixed with chemicals and
sand, are injected into the ground under high pressure to crack
open shale and release the reserves, according to the
 International Energy Agency .  Malawi Survey  NuEnergy conducted an aeromagnetic survey of a 346 square
kilometers (134 square miles) of land in southern Malawi in May
to determine which sites are best to start exploratory drilling.
The survey was the first of its kind in the country and results
are expected in about three weeks, Robertson said. The company
already has one drill rig operating in the country.  NuEnergy also applied for two exploration permits in
southwestern Tanzania, where there may be “large potential
shale resources,” he said. The country has 40 trillion cubic
feet of natural-gas reserves, Energy Minister Sospeter Muhongo
said in April.  The Tanzanian government has held off granting the permits
because it is currently drafting a gas policy after recent
discoveries of offshore gas reserves. The country plans to
auction licenses for seven offshore blocks and one section in
Lake Tanganyika in October.  NuEnergy envisions that East African shale reserves will be
sent to micro-liquid-natural-gas plants to be used domestically
as transport fuel rather than for export. Smaller LNG facilities
cost about $20 million to $30 million, compared with several
billion dollars for larger LNG facilities, Robertson said.  Shale-gas exploration has raised controversy globally over
concerns that include water contamination from the chemicals
used in the drilling process. In South Africa, environmental
groups have opposed drilling in the semi-desert Karoo basin. The
government lifted a moratorium on fracking in September 2012.
Other countries, including  France , have banned fracking.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Jerving in  Dar es Salaam  via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 