-- Obama to Outline Climate-Change Steps in Weeks, Aide Says
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-06-19T18:59:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/obama-to-outline-climate-change-steps-in-weeks-aide-says.html
President  Barack Obama  will outline
“commonsense” steps to tackle  climate change  in the weeks
ahead, White House energy adviser  Heather Zichal  said,
confirming what the president is telling donors privately.  The administration plans include measures that don’t
require congressional action, such as pushing energy efficiency
standards for appliances, clean-energy production on public
lands and regulations to curb carbon-dioxide emissions from
power plants, she said today in Washington.  Obama “is serious about making it a second-term
priority,” Zichal said at a forum sponsored by the New Republic
magazine. “The president is very focused on commonsense
measures” to deal with the threat, she said.  At closed-door fundraisers in the past few weeks, the
president has been telling Democratic party donors that he will
unveil climate proposals in July to curb U.S. greenhouse gas
emissions, according to people who have attended the events or
been briefed,  Bloomberg News  reported on June 14.  Obama’s promise frequently comes in response to pleas from
donors to reject  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s proposed Keystone XL
project, a $5.3 billion pipeline that would carry  tar-sands  oil
from Canada to U.S. refineries, according to those who attended
the sessions. Opponents say Keystone would increase greenhouse-gas emissions by encouraging use of the tar sands.  Obama Speech  In a speech today in Berlin, Obama said the U.S. “will do
more” to cut  carbon emissions .  “The effort to slow climate change requires bold action,”
Obama said, warning that more severe storms, famines and floods
will affect all nations. “This is the global threat of our
time.”  Obama hasn’t told donors what he will do about Keystone,
which requires a presidential permit, and Zichal didn’t mention
it today. Instead, she discussed actions taken by the
administration and promised more effort to tackle the job.  Environmentalists are closely watching the administration’s
plans for Environmental Protection Agency rules for greenhouse-gas emissions from  power plants , the largest single source of
such pollution. EPA proposed standards for new plants last year,
and is late on issuing the final regulations.  The agency still must establish standards for existing
plants, a rule that the Natural Resources Defense Council
estimates could cut their carbon-dioxide release by 26 percent.  “In the near term, we are very much focused on the power
plant part of that equation,” Zichal said, when asked if EPA
would be pursuing regulation of refineries or other emitters.  The administration will also pursue more solar and wind
installations on public lands, and use the Department of Energy
to set efficiency standards for appliances, Zichal said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in  Washington  at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  