-- Obama Said Not to Have Begun Bernanke Replacement Search
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2013-06-19T20:04:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/obama-said-not-to-have-begun-search-for-bernanke-replacement.html
Amid speculation over who will
succeed Ben Bernanke as Federal Reserve chairman, there are no
signs that President  Barack Obama  has begun a formal search.  Obama, in an interview with PBS’s  Charlie Rose  that aired
June 17, was not attempting to indicate any imminent change to
the financial markets, aides said. Rather, they said, he was
simply complimenting Bernanke for a strong performance during
the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression.  “They don’t want to announce his replacement early enough
to undermine his control of the process,” said  Lou Crandall ,
chief economist at Wrightson ICAP LLC in Jersey City, New
Jersey, a unit of ICAP Plc, the world’s largest broker of
financial transactions between banks. “There are benefits to
delaying the official beginning of the transition process.”  Still, the president’s comments have intensified
speculation among investors about whether changes at the central
bank would shift the future course of Fed policy.  Janet Yellen , the Fed’s vice chairwoman, is widely regarded
as a top candidate for the position. Other possible nominees
include former Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner , former White
House adviser and ex-Treasury Secretary  Lawrence Summers  and
former Fed Vice Chairman  Roger Ferguson .  The position requires Senate confirmation, making it likely
that the White House would announce a nomination several months
before Bernanke’s term officially expires in January to avoid
market turmoil. The White House wouldn’t publicly comment today
on Bernanke’s replacement.  ‘Personal Plans’  Bernanke, asked about his future plans at a news conference
today in Washington, said: “I don’t have anything for you on my
personal plans.”  Bernanke was initially nominated to the post by former
President  George W. Bush . When Obama decided to announce that he
would re-nominate Bernanke in the summer of 2009, five months
before his term was up, the president was influenced by the
argument that a reappointment would be reassuring to financial
markets, according to a person familiar with the matter.
Bernanke began his second term on Feb. 1, 2010.  The 18-month recession was the longest and deepest since
the Great Depression, and the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) 
reached a 12-year low in March 2009. Joblessness peaked at a
quarter-century  high of 10 percent  in October 2009. By March
2010, 10.1 percent of all  mortgage loans  were delinquent,
according to data from the  Mortgage Bankers Association .  Fed Meeting  With markets more stable today, Obama will feel less
pressure to make a decision to please them, according to the
person. While that freedom may lead the president to consider a
broad list of candidates, his final decision may be determined
by assessing how a potential chairman would react in a crisis.  The heightened uncertainty about the Fed’s plans and future
leadership came as Bernanke convened his regular meeting of the
bank’s policy-making committee to debate whether to continue its
monthly federal bond buying program. The  Federal Open Market
Committee  said today it would maintain the $85 billion pace of
monthly asset purchases.  Bernanke said today the Fed may start reducing  bond
purchases  later this year and end them in the middle of 2014 if
the economy continues to improve as the central bank forecasts.  “One of the implications of the fact that Ben is now very,
very likely to be leaving at the beginning of the year is that
he’s going to want to get the so-called exit strategy under
way,” Harvard University economics professor  Martin Feldstein 
said on CNBC television today. “He’s going to want to start the
tapering before he leaves so that he can say, ‘I did all these
good things, and I put us on an exit path.’”  Transition  Critics, though, said the almost off-hand remarks about
Bernanke in a televised interview were too abrupt a way of
managing an economically sensitive transition.  “Immediately, the market is speculating on and wanting to
know who his successor is and whether the policies will
continue,” said  Allen Sinai , chief executive officer of
Decision Economics Inc. in New York. “It is a potential market
destabilizer that didn’t have to occur.”  Obama praised Bernanke’s performance in the June 17
interview, saying the chairman had “already stayed a lot longer
than he wanted or he was supposed to.”  “I think  Ben Bernanke ’s done an outstanding job,” Obama
said. “Ben Bernanke’s a little bit like Bob Mueller, the head
of the FBI.”  Mueller has served beyond his 10-year term, with the
president recently naming James Comey as his nominee to succeed
the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  director.  Jackson Hole  Bernanke has hinted for months that he was not eager to
remain in his post for a third term. He broke with tradition and
decided not to attend the Fed’s annual central banking
conference in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, this year.  In March, Bernanke told reporters that he’s “spoken to the
president a bit” about his future and felt no personal
responsibility to stay at the Fed and oversee the reversal of
its policies.  “I don’t think that I’m the only person in the world who
can manage the exit,” Bernanke said at the March news
conference in Washington.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
 Hans Nichols  in Berlin at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  