-- Obama in Berlin Shows Merkel’s Chancellorship Forged in Crisis
-- B y   A l a n   C r a w f o r d   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2013-06-19T07:57:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/obama-in-berlin-shows-merkel-s-chancellorship-forged-in-crisis.html
It was 95 degrees Fahrenheit outside
the Los Cabos conference center as President  Barack Obama  and
fellow Group of 20 leaders pressed  Chancellor Angela Merkel  to
take the heat out of the crisis-wracked euro area.  With surging government borrowing costs in Italy and Spain
roiling the global economy less than five months before U.S.
presidential elections, Obama and Merkel’s European peers at the
G-20 summit in Mexico in June 2012 jointly urged her to show
markets that the euro area stood behind its biggest economies,
two officials from G-20 delegations taking part in the talks
said on condition of anonymity because the meeting was private.  Merkel, the leader of  Europe ’s biggest economy, seated
opposite Obama and between French President  Francois Hollande 
and Italy’s  Mario Monti , was on the defensive. The chancellor
had drawn a line in the sand at pooling debt and she wasn’t
about to give in, even when confronted by the leaders of the
world’s other biggest economies.  One year to the day since that trans-Atlantic standoff,
Merkel welcomes Obama today for his first official visit to
Berlin since he became president in 2009. With the temperature
forecast to hit the nineties, any public friction between the
two leaders has dissipated as euro-area bond yields have eased
and the acute phase of the debt crisis has cooled.  “This relationship is in transformation,”  Gary Smith ,
executive director of the  American Academy  in Berlin, a research
group that promotes trans-Atlantic ties, said by phone. “There
may be some disagreements on how to handle the euro crisis but
there are intensive contacts at all levels and between Merkel
and Obama on this and all other key issues.”  Brandenburg Gate  Three months before Merkel seeks a third term in federal
elections, her home city is locked down in anticipation of the
visit. Obama is due to meet with German President Joachim Gauck
at Schloss Bellevue in downtown Berlin before holding talks with
Merkel at the chancellery. A joint press conference is scheduled
for 12:30 p.m. Berlin time. Merkel and Obama will then deliver
speeches at the  Brandenburg Gate  from 3 p.m. The chancellor will
host a dinner for Obama at  Schloss Charlottenburg , the 17th
palace built by Prussia’s King Frederick I.  Obama and Merkel “have developed a very close working
relationship since the beginning of 2009,”  Ben Rhodes , deputy
national security adviser to Obama, told reporters June 14.
“They’ve worked through a number of delicate crises together --
both economic and security.” Speaking at the Brandenburg Gate
facing east is “a true symbol of the partnership that we’ve
forged together.”  Obama will speak at the eastern side of the 18th century
Gate, a symbol of  Germany ’s Cold War division and then of unity
after the 1989 fall of the Wall and 1990 reunification.  Attack Foiled  Topics for discussion include their shared mission in
Afghanistan and efforts to encourage a Middle East peace
process, with “nothing left off” the agenda, Merkel’s chief
spokesman, Steffen Seibert, told reporters on June 14.  While revelations of the U.S. National Security Agency’s
spying operations rocked European capitals and prompted rebukes
from members of her coalition, the chancellor praised U.S.
intelligence in a June 17 interview with RTL television for
helping to foil a planned bomb attack in Germany in 2007. Merkel
said she’ll raise the surveillance matter with the U.S. leader.  On the economy, Merkel has taken a more conciliatory tone
than at the height of the crisis. While saying she’ll hold to
her push for debt reduction and policies to encourage growth
after the Sept. 22 election, Merkel has pointed to the need for
stronger consumption in Germany. U.S. Treasury Secretary Jack Lew used his first visit to Berlin in April to stress the “need
to balance policies of growth and investment in the future with
polices of fiscal consolidation.”  ‘Right Mix’  “We don’t only set our hopes on cuts” in budgets to
tackle the root cause of the debt crisis, but also on “the
right mix between boosting domestic consumption, creating growth
and solid finances,” Merkel said in an interview in Berlin on
June 14. “We’re going to pursue this kind of policy mix.”  Merkel’s euro-area policy focus has shifted from crisis
fighting to longer-term efforts to tackle youth unemployment as
yields have subsided following European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi ’s pledge five weeks after the G-20 summit in Los
Cabos to do whatever it takes to save the euro. Merkel backed
that pledge and Draghi’s subsequent threat of unlimited bond-buying, saying as recently as June 11 that the ECB “is doing
what is necessary to ensure monetary stability.”  As the crisis came to light in Greece with the election in
October 2009 of Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s government,
which made public the bloated  budget deficit , the U.S. was quick
to recognize the debt problem’s seriousness.  Monitoring Greece  Treasury officials went to  Athens  in late 2009 for talks
with the  Finance Ministry  and central bank. In early 2010,
Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  confronted the Europeans for
a game plan on Greece at a G-7 meeting in the Canadian Arctic.
He was rebuffed. By March 2009, the Treasury appointed an
official dedicated to Greece and calls were being made to Greek
counterparts twice a week for updates, then-Greek Finance
Minister  George Papaconstantinou  said in an interview.  Merkel, after suggesting in 2010 that countries that didn’t
stick to the euro’s rules might have to be expelled from the
currency area, has since embraced Greece. She called Prime
Minister Antonis Samaras on June 17 to offer him her “respect”
and “support for the clear reform orientation” of his
government. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  plans to
make his first official visit to Athens in the coming weeks.  Merkel has emerged from the crisis as the go-to leader in
Europe, according to Smith at the American Academy.  “The president is not going to Brussels, he’s going to
Berlin because he’s coming to Europe to talk to the Europeans,”
said Smith. “Germany is becoming our principal partner in
Europe without any formal declaration of this.”  “ Angela Merkel : A Chancellorship Forged in Crisis” is
published by Wiley Press, priced at 19.99 pounds in the U.K. and
$29.95 in the U.S. To purchase the book, click  here , or  here  for
 North America .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Crawford in Berlin at 
 acrawford6@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  