-- Obama Says U.S. Surveillance Programs Strike Privacy Balance
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2013-06-19T13:04:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/obama-says-u-s-surveillance-programs-strike-balance-on-privacy.html
President  Barack Obama  said
government surveillance programs that sweep telephone numbers
and Internet data have saved lives, as a controversy over the
monitoring followed him on a trip overseas.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , during a news conference
with Obama in Berlin, said the two discussed a U.S. program,
called Prism, that monitors the Internet activity of foreigners
believed to be located outside the U.S. and plotting terrorist
attacks.  “This is not a situation in which we are rifling through
the ordinary e-mails of German citizens or American citizens or
French citizens or anybody else,” Obama said. “We have struck
the appropriate balance” between security and privacy.  Merkel said that as with other technological developments,
“it’s important that we learn to use it with proportion.”  The National Security Agency’s operations have come under
scrutiny after former contract worker Edward Snowden exposed the
previously secret programs to the Guardian and the Washington
Post. U.S. lawmakers and civil-liberties groups have sought more
information on the two programs Snowden disclosed, Prism and
another that collects phone call records from millions of U.S.
citizens.  Lives Saved  Obama said the two programs have helped uncover 50
terrorist plots.  “Lives have been saved,” he said.  Among the foiled conspiracies was a planned attack on the
 New York  Stock Exchange, Deputy FBI Director Sean Joyce told a
House committee yesterday.  Merkel said it’s important to have a debate on the
surveillance programs to strike an “equitable balance” between
security and personal freedom.  “There are people who have concerns about this,
particularly about the possibility of data collection on a vast
scale,” Merkel said. “The questions that aren’t clarified we
will continue to discuss.”  Merkel’s comments come a week after European Union
officials pressured Attorney General Eric Holder for answers and
details about the program during a meeting between top justice
officials in Dublin, Ireland.  Holder told reporters after the meeting that he had agreed
to convene a working group of U.S. and EU officials to discuss
the surveillance programs and their reach into European
countries and their citizens. Legal and law enforcement
officials are expected to participate in the working group.  European Dialogue  “For me, this is the beginning of a dialogue,” European
Union Justice Commissioner  Viviane Reding  told reporters on June
14. The group will work “to clarify together the remaining
matters -- and I do think there are remaining matters.”  The news conference, which followed a meeting between
Merkel and Obama and preceded a speech the U.S. president is to
deliver this afternoon, also touched on the civil war in  Syria 
and U.S. attempts to spur settlement talks between the Taliban
and the government in  Afghanistan .  With the U.S. stepping up military assistance to the rebels
battling Bashar al-Assad’s regime Syria, Obama said the U.S.
will keep pressing for negotiations and for  Russia , which has
backed Assad, to fully back those efforts.  Syrian Conflict  At the conclusion of a Group of Eight nations meeting in
 Northern Ireland  yesterday, Russian President  Vladimir Putin 
dismissed assertions by the U.S., U.K. and  France  that Assad
used chemical weapons and said arming the opposition would led
to more bloodshed and putting extremists in power.  “At this point, President Putin believes that what would
replace Assad would be worse than Assad himself,” Obama said.
“What will become more and more apparent to him over the weeks
and months, is that without a different government, you cannot
bring peace.”  The U.S. and the Taliban announced yesterday the opening of
a Taliban office in Doha, Qatar, as the venue for talks intended
to bring about a  peace process  in Afghanistan.  Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  announced he was suspending
discussions with the U.S. on an accord governing the long-term
presence of American military trainers to protest what he called
“contradictions” between U.S. acts and statements in pursuing
peace with the Taliban.  Obama said the U.S. anticipated there would be friction and
that any effort to negotiate peace “is  going to be a difficult
process.”  “They’ve been fighting for a very long time,” Obama said
when asked about Karzai’s action. “There’s enormous distrust.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Dorning in Berlin at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
 Hans Nichols  in Berlin at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  