-- Hog Futures Reach Two-Year High on Bets U.S Pork Demand to Rise
-- B y   M a r l e y   D e l D u c h e t t o
-- 2013-06-19T18:55:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/hog-futures-soar-to-two-year-high-on-pork-demand-cattle-advance.html
Hog futures surged to a two-year
high on speculation that U.S. consumers bought more pork instead
of beef for grilling during the Independence Day holiday on July
4 as supermarkets increased promotions.  About 1.19 million hogs have been slaughtered in the first
three days of this week, up 0.6 percent from a year earlier,
U.S. Department of Agriculture data show. Per-capita pork
consumption in the U.S. this year is expected to increase by 1.3
percent, the USDA forecasts. The Fourth of July is the most
popular day of the year for outdoor grilling, according to the
Hearth, Patio and Barbecue Association.  Rising hog prices will increase costs for companies that
slaughter animals including  Smithfield Foods Inc. (SFD) , the leading
U.S. processor, and boost pork prices for consumers who
traditionally increase meat consumption as temperatures rise in
the U.S. Wholesale  pork  is 92.81 cents a pound less expensive
than beef, according to the government. Beef stockpiles in 2013
are expected to fall 9.5 percent to 550 million pounds while
pork inventories may rise 4 percent, USDA data show.  “Demand is stronger because the retailer and the
wholesaler did a very good job of spooking people on tight beef
supplies and switched over their promotions to a cheaper
product, pork,”  Don Roose , the president of U.S. Commodities
Inc. in West Des Moines, Iowa, said by telephone. “There is
also a little bit of demand for the Fourth of July, but the push
toward cheaper products is a bigger part.”  Hog futures for August settlement surged 1.1 percent to
close at 98.375 cents a pound at 1 p.m. on the  Chicago 
Mercantile Exchange, after reaching 99.5 cents, the highest for
a most-active contract since April 25, 2011. Prices are up 4.8
percent in June and 15 percent this year.  Pork Prices  Wholesale  pork  rallied 39 percent since the end of March,
reaching a 22-month high yesterday of $1.0743 a pound,
government data show. Rising prices are an indicator of
improving demand. U.S. Midwest temperatures will top 80 degrees
Fahrenheit (27 Celsius) this week and climb into the 90s next
week, according to forecaster MDA Weather Services in
Gaithersburg,  Maryland .  “The very strong gain” in pork prices “is the primary
driver” for hog futures, Rich Nelson, the director of research
at Allendale Inc., said in a telephone interview from McHenry,
 Illinois . “We also have ideal grilling conditions right now,
and there’s still a little bit of demand for Fourth of July.”  Pork exports to  Mexico  in April rose 19 percent to 52,958
metric tons, according to the U.S. Meat Export Federation.
Shipments to  Canada  and Colombia also climbed, the federation
said in an  e-mailed report  on June 5. In the four months through
April, total exports were still down 10 percent from a year
earlier, the agency said.  Hog Disease  Futures also advanced amid mounting concern that the spread
of a hog disease called porcine epidemic diarrhea virus will
limit supplies, Nelson said.  The U.S. Department of Agriculture reported on May 17 that
the disease had infected some animals in  Iowa , the largest hog-producing state. The disease has spread to 13 states, slowing
weight gain and causing death in piglets, according to James
Collins, director of the Veterinary Diagnostic Lab at the
University of Minnesota. PEDV doesn’t affect humans and is not a
food-safety concern.  Cattle futures for August delivery rose 1.2 percent to
settle at $1.204 a pound in Chicago. Prices are down 9 percent
this year.  Feeder-cattle futures for August settlement gained 0.6
percent to $1.4465 a pound.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marley DelDuchetto in Chicago at 
 mdelduchett2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  