-- Thompson’s NYC Mayoral Bid Boosted by Teachers’ Union
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-06-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/thompson-s-nyc-mayoral-campaign-gets-boost-from-teachers-union.html
New York  mayoral candidate  William Thompson  got a boost from the city’s teachers’ union, whose
endorsement yesterday helps him mobilize the group’s members,
money and political activists.  Thompson, 59, a former city comptroller, received the
 United Federation of Teachers  backing over four main rivals for
the  Democratic Party ’s nomination. He worked with the union as
Board of Education president in the 1990s before the state put
New York’s public schools under the mayor’s control in 2002.  “What this union is saying is that we need a mayor who
will be for opportunity for all, not just a few,” union
President Michael Mulgrew told a rally yesterday as he
introduced Thompson at federation headquarters in  Manhattan .  The union, which has a $2.5 million political fund and
200,000 active members and retirees, has a history of providing
street campaigners, phone banks and money to candidates it
supports. It also has a history of backing losers.  In 2001, it supported three mayoral candidates in one
election cycle. First, it endorsed former Comptroller  Alan Hevesi  in a Democratic primary. After he lost, it backed former
Bronx Borough President Fernando Ferrer, who was beaten in a
runoff by former Public Advocate Mark Green. The union rallied
to Green against Michael Bloomberg, who won as a Republican.  Death Kiss  The union didn’t back any mayoral candidate four years
later, when Bloomberg gained a second term running against
Ferrer. In 2009, it declined to endorse Thompson, who failed to
stop Bloomberg’s re-election to a third term.  Since then, relations between the union and Bloomberg have
deteriorated with disputes over the role of testing, evaluating
teacher performance, merit pay, school closures, seniority and
disciplinary procedures.  The mayor took a swipe at the union’s endorsement June 17,
calling its support “almost a kiss of death.” He said it has
been more than two decades since the UFT last backed a winning
mayoral candidate: David Dinkins in 1989. Mulgrew focused on a
different angle in response.  “Most candidates would rather be the victim of a zombie
attack than get a  Michael Bloomberg  endorsement,” Mulgrew said.  The mayor, who by law can’t seek a fourth term, is founder
and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  Weingarten Backing  Thompson has already received endorsements from  Randi Weingarten , president of the federation’s national arm and
Mulgrew’s predecessor in New York, and Merryl Tisch, chancellor
of the state Board of Regents. The panel oversees education
policy for elementary schools to universities.  Thompson, who said his mother was a teacher and federation
member, called the union’s backing the “culmination of a
lifelong commitment to education and teachers.”  “Teachers used to be the pillars of society,” the
candidate told the the rally. “As mayor, I am not going to
demonize teachers. We’ve had enough of that. I’m going to help
them teach by giving them the tools that they need.”  While some voters disagree with its positions on school
policies, others sympathize with the federation in its disputes
with  City Hall , said George Arzt, a political consultant not
involved in this year’s mayoral race. He said the union’s
members and money make its support a sought-after prize.  “It’s a real boost to Thompson’s candidacy,” Arzt said in
an interview. “This union’s members vote, and they have a
history of listening to their leadership.”  Fight Promised  Thompson has also received support from the Council of
Supervisors and Administrators, a union representing principals,
and the Uniformed Workers of New York, a group of bargaining
units for public-safety, sanitation and corrections workers.  “When I’m mayor, I’ll fight day and night to help the
teachers of New York, because you are critical to the future,”
Thompson said. “I’ll fight for all working New Yorkers who are
struggling to make ends meet, make our city better, and keep our
future bright.”  The city’s largest labor group, District Council 37 of the
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees,
endorsed Comptroller  John Liu  in May. Liu, a Democrat, is also
supported by unions representing school bus drivers, operating
engineers, electrical and communications workers.  City Council Speaker Christine Quinn, the Democratic
frontrunner in voter surveys, is backed by  United Auto Workers ,
Teamsters, supermarket-employee and fire-officer locals.  Local 1199 of the  Service Employees International Union ,
which represents health-care workers with about 300,000 members
in New York and several other states, has endorsed Bill de Blasio, a Democrat and the city’s public advocate.  “Rather than the unions all being one monolithic block,
it’s diffused among several of the candidates, so organized
labor will not be speaking with one voice,” said Doug Muzzio,
who teaches urban politics at  Baruch College  of the  City
University  of New York.  “While union endorsements provide a psychological boost,
a metric of success and a source of manpower and money, the
various unions going in many directions may mitigate” any one
group’s influence, Muzzio said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  