-- Monsoon Triggers Floods in India’s Himalayas, Killing 138
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2013-06-19T12:54:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/monsoon-triggers-floods-in-india-s-himalayas-killing-130-people.html
Air force helicopters and rescue
teams searched for survivors in northern  India  after days of
monsoon rains triggered flash floods and landslides, killing at
least 138 people and leaving hundreds missing.  Parts of  Uttarakhand  and Himachal Pradesh, the worst-hit
states located in the foothills of the Himalayas, have been
inundated by rains and swollen rivers. The downpours have washed
away more than 400 roads as well as homes, vehicles and mobile-phone towers in the states, the ACT Alliance, an umbrella group
of local and global non-governmental organizations, said in a
statement.  While monsoon rains annually cause destruction across
India, this year they have swept over the country with record
speed, leaving tens of thousands of Hindu and Sikh pilgrims
stranded. As many as 73,000 pilgrims, who traditionally flock to
religious sites in the Himalayas in June, are stuck, ACT said.
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said at a press conference today
that the number of casualties is expected to rise as the army
and air force continue to search for survivors.  “Our hearts go out to the families of those who have lost
their lives,” Singh said as he announced 10 billion rupees
($170 million) of relief package to help those affected.  More than 100 people were killed in Uttarakhand, Yashpal
Arya, its minister for disaster management and rehabilitation,
said by phone. While most of the tourists and pilgrims stranded
in Kedarnath, a popular Hindu religious site, have been
evacuated, a large number are still stuck at other locations,
said Arya, adding it will take at least two more days to
evacuate them.  ‘Worst Flood’  Twenty five helicopters were being used to rescue people
and drop essential supplies such as food, milk, water and
medicines, Arya said. Paramilitary security personnel, and staff
of the national disaster rescue force and state administration
were involved in relief work, he said.  “This is the worst flash flood in about 90 years,” Arya
said. “The state has been devastated.”  While the Kedarnath shrine was intact, the surrounding part
has been severely damaged and submerged, the minister said.
Weather conditions have improved, he said.  Information from remote areas is slowly emerging and may
push the death toll higher. Across both Uttarakhand and  Himachal
Pradesh , 138 have been killed,  Press Trust of India  reported,
without saying where it got the information.  India’s monsoon, which accounts for about 70 percent of the
country’s rainfall, is vital for its agriculture-driven economy.
Rains since the monsoon began  June 1  have been 58 percent above
average, helping to ease water shortages in some regions and
promising to boost crop production in the world’s second-most
populous country.  More than 235 million farmers in India, the world’s second-largest producer of cotton, rice and sugar cane, depend on rain
for irrigating crops. The monsoon usually makes landfall in the
south in June and covers all of India by July 15.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  