-- Moore to Tudor Said to Stick With Japan After Correction
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n   a n d   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2013-06-19T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/moore-to-tudor-said-to-stick-with-japan-after-correction.html
Louis Bacon , Michael Novogratz and
other multibillion-dollar hedge-fund managers expect to make
more money this year from rising Japanese stocks and a falling
yen even after being forced to scale back their bets as markets
changed direction, according to clients.  Most of the largest macro funds lost 1 percent to 2 percent
in the first week of June as the trades, which helped drive
performance over the past six months, turned against them. Since
reaching a 4-1/2-year low on May 22, the yen has rallied about 8
percent against the  U.S. dollar  and  Japan ’s Topix stock index
has fallen 15 percent.  “As  macro managers  started to see reversals in the markets
they took their risk down, but broadly speaking their views
remain the same,” said Arvin Soh, a portfolio manager at GAM
USA Inc. in New York, which had $53.3 billion in assets as of
Dec. 31, including hedge-fund strategies.  The Japan trade made for a promising start to 2013 as many
of the biggest macro managers posted returns of 12 percent to 14
percent in the first five months, said the investors, who asked
not to be named because the funds aren’t public.  Hedge funds  on
average  returned  2.8 percent.  The results were a welcome change for many of the managers,
who have struggled with  lackluster performance  since 2010 even
as clients in the $2.4 trillion industry poured a third of new
cash into their funds figuring they were best positioned to
navigate markets in the wake of the global financial crisis,
according to data tracker Hedge Fund Research Inc.  Yen’s Tumble  Macro traders, who bet on macroeconomic trends by buying
and selling stocks, bonds, currencies and commodities, tend to
thrive in the sort of strong, steady market moves that Japan
produced for most of this year. In the prior two years, the
hedge funds were stymied by global markets in which prices have
jumped around and trends proved to be short-lived.  Macro funds returned 1.4 percent in the first five months
of this year, the best start to a year since the beginning of
2009.  The yen fell by 20 percent against the dollar from the end
of November through May 22 and Japan’s Topix jumped 63 percent
after Prime Minister Shinzo Abe championed fiscal and monetary
stimulus, along with a weaker  exchange rate , to end deflation
and restart growth.  Macro managers have also made money this year on rising
stocks in the U.S., where the benchmark Standard & Poor’s 500
Index has climbed 16 percent, and on a falling Australian
dollar, according to Soh and other investors.  Fortress, Tudor  The Fortress Macro Fund, run by Novogratz and Adam Levinson, rose 12 percent this year through June 7 even after
losing 1.8 percent in the first week of the month, investors
said.  Novogratz, whose New York-based firm managed $3.4 billion
in macro funds as of March 31, said in early May that U.S.
stocks could end the year up 25 percent to 30 percent and called
Japan the best place for macro investing.  Tudor Global BVI, the macro fund run by  Paul Tudor Jones ,
rose 9.5 percent this year through June 7 after losing 1.9
percent in the first part of the month, clients said. Jones told
investors Japanese stocks will probably climb higher, while the
yen may not weaken much further, they said. His Tudor Investment
Corp., based in Greenwich,  Connecticut , oversees $13.5 billion.  Sacrificing Fees  Bacon’s Moore Global Investment Fund was up 11 percent
year-to-date as of June 7 after declining 1.7 percent in the
first week of the month. His performance has been helped by his
decision to return $2 billion -- or 25 percent of the fund -- to
clients last year following weak returns, investors said. Moore
Capital Management LLC, based in  New York , has $12.1 billion in
assets.  “He gave up $60 million in fees doing the right thing for
his clients, and now his performance has gotten back to where
it’s typically been over the past 20 years,” said Brad Alford,
head of Atlanta-based Alpha Capital Management LLC, the manager
of mutual funds of funds that invest in hedge-fund strategies,
including Bacon’s.  Fund managers who seek to maintain top returns occasionally
hand back some client cash or stop accepting new money if their
funds have grown so big that they can’t find enough investment
opportunities.  Andrew Law, who runs the Caxton Global Investment fund,
advanced about 11 percent this year as of June 10 after sliding
almost 1.3 percent during the start of the month. Caxton
Associates LLC, based in New York, oversees $6.4 billion.  Dalio, Howard  Even with the Japan trade, a few large managers have
stumbled.  Ray Dalio , who heads the $140 billion Bridgewater
Associates, returned 1.8 percent through May in his Pure Alpha
II fund, following a gain of less than 1 percent in 2012,
according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  In the first quarter, Dalio’s successful trades included
bets on a weakening yen and rising U.S. stocks, investors said,
yet wrong-way wagers on gold and emerging-market equities, among
others, wiped out those profits, they said.  Alan Howard ’s Brevan Howard Asset Management LLP has also
failed to climb as much as some other macro managers in 2013.
His publicly traded BH Macro Ltd. fund returned 3.3 percent in
its dollar share class through June 14, according to a filing by
the London-based firm, giving back more than half the gains it
made through May, when it was up 7.1 percent for the year.  Spokesmen for the fund companies declined to comment on
performance and the managers’ outlooks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net ;
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  