-- Orascom Pulls Request for Wind Mobile Acquisition Approval
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-06-19T16:38:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/orascom-pulls-request-for-approval-of-wind-mobile-acquisition.html
Orascom (OTLD)  Telecom Holding SAE, the
Egyptian wireless carrier, withdrew its request for regulatory
approval to acquire Wind Mobile, forcing the Canadian operator
to review its investment options.  Orascom “continues to be interested in consolidating its
interest in Wind Mobile  Canada  and is working with the
government of Canada to achieve this goal,” according to its
statement today. Cairo-based Orascom didn’t say why it withdrew
the application, made under a Canadian law that governs large
investments by foreign companies.  Wind Mobile, the largest of three recently created wireless
operators based in Ontario, has drawn interest from Orascom and,
since Canada’s government moved to block big local carriers from
buying smaller rivals, from Verizon Communications Inc. Verizon,
part owner of the No. 1 U.S. wireless operator, said yesterday
that Wind Mobile is “one of many” options it’s considering.  Under the deal that was withdrawn, Orascom would have
acquired a 99.3 percent indirect stake in Wind Mobile parent
Globalive Wireless Management Corp.  Globalive Chief Executive Officer  Anthony Lacavera  said
today that he will continue to control two-thirds of his
Toronto-based company’s voting shares, with Orascom holding the
rest. Orascom, which is controlled by Vimpelcom Communications
OJSC, will keep a total Globalive stake of 65 percent.  “Despite this speed bump, I’m going to continue to work
with Vimpelcom toward our mutual objectives,” Lacavera said in
the telephone interview. “It doesn’t change my long-term
commitment to competition in the market.”  Blocked Deal  Earlier this month, Industry Minister Christian Paradis
blocked Telus Corp.’s C$380 million ($373 million) acquisition
of another recent entrant, Mobilicity, part of his pledge to
foster conditions for a fourth national carrier to emerge.
Telus,  Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B)  and  BCE Inc. (BCE)  control about 90
percent of the Canadian mobile-phone market by subscribers.  In an e-mailed statement today, Paradis confirmed that the
Orascom application has been withdrawn and that the review
process has ended. He declined to elaborate on the reasons for
its withdrawal.  Vimpelcom is based in Amsterdam, and its biggest operations
are in  Russia . Much of Wind Mobile’s wireless infrastructure was
built by Huawei Technologies Co., a Shenzhen, China-based maker
of telecommunications equipment that has been blocked from
providing gear for Canadian government networks.  “Vimpelcom made statements about there never having been a
breach” of security with its networks, “and I would echo those
statements,” Lacavera said. “Cybersecurity threats are by far
one of the biggest threats facing our nation. This is an
ongoing, iterative process.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  