-- Osborne Weighs Lloyds Sale as RBS Breakup Examined: U.K. Credit
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2013-06-19T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/osborne-says-u-k-considering-lloyds-sale-as-rbs-split-examined.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne said the U.K. government is “actively considering”
selling shares in Lloyds Banking Group Plc, though privatizing
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  is still some way off.  “Five years on from the financial crisis, we can now take
the first steps to returning Lloyds to the private sector where
it belongs,” Osborne told financiers in his annual Mansion
House speech in London yesterday. “Of course, we will only
proceed if we get value for the taxpayer. And we have no pre-fixed timescale or method of disposal.”  The announcement comes after a parliamentary report
published yesterday said  Lloyds, (LLOY)  which is 39 percent-owned by
the government, was better placed than RBS to return to private
hands. Osborne said the Treasury will “urgently” investigate
the case for breaking up RBS and hiving off its toxic assets
into a “bad bank.”  Credit-default swaps covering Lloyds debt for five years
are little changed since the end of May at 147.6 basis points.
By contrast, investor perceptions of RBS’s creditworthiness are
deteriorating. Similar contracts on RBS bonds have risen to
198.1 basis points from 168 basis points.  Osborne said the first block of government shares in Lloyds
will probably be sold to institutions as “the most effective
way of  managing risk  and getting value.” The government will
consider a retail offering to the public at a later stage.  Broken Even  Lloyds Chief Executive OfficerAntonio Horta-Osorio said
last month that the lender would post a full-year profit in
2013. Its shares currently exceed the level at which the
government says it will break even on its holding after
providing a 20 billion-pound ($31 billion) rescue almost five
years ago.  RBS, which is  81 percent state-owned , is weighed down by
too many poor assets, Osborne said. The Edinburgh-based lender
received a 45.5 billion-pound bailout, the costliest in banking
history, during the global financial crisis. RBS  shares  remain
below the level at which taxpayers breakeven.  Investors demand 122.2 basis points of extra yield to hold
RBS’s $2 billion of 2.55 percent notes due September 2015
instead of similar-maturity government bonds. That’s close to
the highest since Feb. 12.  ‘Way Off’  “I will only sell our stake in RBS when we feel the bank
is fully able to support our economy and when we get good value
for you, the taxpayer,” Osborne said. “When it comes to RBS
that moment is some way off.”  The timing of a possible RBS sale was thrown into confusion
last week after CEOStephen Hester announced he would quit by
the end of the year, without announcing a successor, instead of
leading the bank out of state control. Chairman Philip Hampton
had suggested the bank would be in shape for the government to
start cutting its stake by the end of 2014, months before the
next general election.  In its “swift” review examining whether to split RBS into
a good and a bad bank, the Treasury will particularly examine
its assets in Ulster Bank and U.K. commercial property, the
chancellor said. RBS has channelled about a third, or 14 billion
pounds, of its bailout to prop up its Irish division since 2009.
A decision on the future structure of RBS will be taken in the
fall, Osborne said.  Three Goals  Osborne, who has in the past expressed reluctance about
splitting RBS due to the amount of public money this may
require, ruled out injecting more funds into the bank as part of
this process or increasing the government stake.  “We will establish a bad bank if it meets our three
objectives: if it supports the British economy, if it’s in the
interests of taxpayers -- and if it accelerates the return to
private ownership,” he said. “If the review reveals that it
wouldn’t achieve these things, then we won’t do it.”  Osborne also said that recent data showed the economy is
healing and that the U.K. is “moving from rescue to recovery,”
though the situation in the euro area remains fragile.  “While Britain has left intensive care, we still need to
secure the recovery,” Osborne said. “Recent volatility in
financial markets is a reminder that no recovery from such a
deep and damaging global recession is going to be straight-forward.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in  London  at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  