-- OTP Executive Share Sales Surge in June Amid Share Price Drop
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2013-06-19T12:27:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/otp-executive-share-sales-surge-in-june-amid-share-price-drop.html
Share sales by Hungary’s OTP Bank
Nyrt. executives and board members have soared in June, with
transactions in the past week accounting for 81 percent of total
sales so far this year.  OTP executives sold a combined 358,441 shares in the past
week compared with a total of 441,251 sold since Jan. 1,
according to statements published on websites of the bank and
the Budapest bourse. Chief Financial Officer Laszlo Bencsik sold
a combined 80,000 shares this month, while Daniel Gyuris, the
deputy chief executive officer, sold all his 54,385 shares.  “The share price is currently at rather high levels
compared to previous years, this may have prompted executives to
sell some of their holdings,” Attila Gyurcsik, an analyst at
Budapest-based brokerage Concorde Zrt., said by phone today.  The Cabinet of Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  announced this
week that it would raise the financial transaction tax and
request a 7 percent charge from commercial banks on municipal
debt taken over by the state.  OTP’s share price  declined  3.1 percent this week after the
measures were unveiled and traded 0.3 percent weaker at 4,785
forint by 12:08 p.m. in Budapest, falling for a third day.  OTP executives traditionally receive their compensation in
the form of company shares at this period of year, so share
sales may also occur around this time, OTP said in an e-mailed
response to Bloomberg questions. The sales aren’t connected to
recent government announcements raising the burden on local
banks, according to the e-mail.  The bank is planning to buy its own shares at it seeks to
hold around 1,750,000 common shares, OTP said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  