-- How to Talk to the Taliban
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-06-19T22:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/how-to-talk-to-the-taliban.html
Hopes could hardly be lower for  the
talks between  U.S. and Taliban representatives that are
scheduled to begin this week in Doha. A day after announcing
they would enter negotiations, the Taliban killed four coalition
soldiers in a rocket attack outside Kabul,  Afghanistan . Afghan
President  Hamid Karzai , worried that the U.S.-sponsored talks
will legitimize his enemies, abruptly cut off discussion over a
long-term role for U.S. forces there.  The only ones more interested in  jaw-jaw than war-war  seem
to be the weary Americans, with Secretary of State  John Kerry 
 scrambling to reassure  Karzai and keep the talks on the
calendar. He is correct that these negotiations present an
opportunity -- however small and fragile -- to put Afghanistan
on a path to ending its endless war. To succeed, the U.S. must
be clearer and more realistic about its goals, and about what
it’s prepared to do to achieve them.  It’s pointless to judge the Taliban’s sincerity by attacks
such as this week’s: They are still waging a war, and seeking to
keep as much pressure on  Washington  as coalition forces are
inflicting on them. As for the scene that raised a flag for
Karzai -- literally, as Taliban envoys flew the banner of their
former Islamic Emirate over their “office” in Doha -- the image
can also be viewed in a positive light. The insurgents clearly
crave international legitimacy, hoping to use the office to host
diplomats and delegations.  That desire gives Washington useful leverage. Thus far the
international community has held out the promise of
rehabilitating the Taliban  only under certain conditions : The
insurgents must put down their arms, disown al-Qaeda, accept the
Afghan constitution and join the existing political process.
These are the right goals, though achieving them will take time.  In the meantime, the administration of President  Barack Obama  should use the talks to test the Taliban’s willingness to
change. Instead of vague discussions about reconciliation and
local cease-fires, the Taliban should be asked to commit to
specific actions -- a pledge to end all attacks on schools,
hospitals and humanitarian organizations, say, or a cutoff of
ties to international jihadi groups -- that can be clearly
evaluated and verified.  This involves a broader change in mindset about the purpose
of these negotiations. The U.S. is not going to bring about a
grand bargain among Afghanistan’s many warring factions through
its 65,000 troops -- most of whom will have returned home a year
from now -- or through a few months of jawboning in the  Persian
Gulf , or even through the deeply unpopular Karzai, who must step
down next spring.  What Washington can do is use its leverage to keep nudging
Taliban leaders in the right direction, forcing them to prove
their bona fides, challenging them to live up to their own
claims about their concern for the Afghan people. The U.S., for
its part, can do some things to help the Taliban leadership
bolster its credibility among its rank-and-file, such as
releasing some Taliban detainees in a prisoner exchange.  No one expects this process will be easy. Some in the
Taliban still believe that they can achieve a military victory
once the Americans leave; they may seek to drag out the
negotiations and lull their opponents into complacency. At the
same time, the senior Taliban leadership remembers how hard
their fight against non-Pashtun factions in the north of the
country was before the Sept. 11 attacks; those groups are now
even better armed, and unlikely to accept Taliban dominance in
Kabul.  Intriguingly, northern representatives who have met quietly
with Taliban figures over the past year in  Europe  and elsewhere
have found the insurgents open to negotiating a new
constitutional framework that balances the rights of various
ethnic and regional groups. This is the kind of “Afghan-led
process” that Afghanistan needs.  The U.S. must understand both its power and its limits in
Afghanistan. Despite the Taliban’s rhetoric and Karzai’s
tantrums, any Afghan government will need American military and
economic support for years to come. At best, though, the U.S.
can use that influence to make sure that all elements of Afghan
society have a say in determining what that government will look
like. It’s time to talk in Doha -- if only so the real
conversation can finally begin.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 