-- Mozambique's Renamo Threatens Coal Rail Line Used by Rio
-- B y   W i l l i a m   F e l i m a o
-- 2013-06-19T20:02:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/mozambique-s-renamo-threatens-coal-rail-line-used-by-rio.html
The Mozambican National Resistance,
an opposition group that fought a civil war against the
government, threatened to disrupt the Sena rail line in the
center of the country used to haul coal from mines owned by Rio
Tinto Group and  Vale SA. (VALE3)   The group, known as Renamo, said the threat to start
disrupting rail and road traffic in the region from tomorrow is
a response to government troop movements after an arms depot was
attacked in the Savane area near the port of Beira earlier this
week and at least six soldiers killed. Renamo denied
responsibility for the attack.  “Mozambique’s government is concentrating troops to
attack” Gorongosa, an area where Renamo leader Afonso Dhlakama
is based, Jeronimo Malagueta, a spokesman for the party, told
reporters in the capital, Maputo, today. “Renamo’s militiamen
will take positions to defend Gorongosa.”  Renamo, formerly backed by South Africa’s apartheid
government, fought a 15-year civil war against the ruling Front
for the Liberation of  Mozambique , or Frelimo, that ended in 1992
with a peace agreement brokered by church groups. The party last
year said it could resume the conflict and complained that
elections in 2009, won by Frelimo, were unfair.  Three people were killed in an attack on a bus in the
central district of Muxungue on April 6, while four members of
Mozambique’s special police force and a militiaman loyal to
Renamo died in clashes in the same area on April 4, according to
the government.  The government blamed this week’s attack on Renamo and
halted the rail line for a day after the attack.  The state ports and rail company, known as CFM, doesn’t
plan to halt the rail line after today’s threat, Alves Cumbe, a
spokesman for the company, said in an interview.  “In terms of security we follow the government
recommendations,” he said. The company hasn’t been contacted by
the government, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Felimao in Maputo at 
 wfelimao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  