-- Ethanol Producer Pannonia Criticizes Platts Amid Oil Probe
-- B y   K o n s t a n t i n   R o z h n o v   a n d   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2013-06-19T19:12:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/pannonia-leads-ethanol-critics-of-platts-pricing-amid-eu-probe.html
Pannonia Ethanol , a Hungarian
ethanol producer, led critics of Platts at a meeting in London,
a month after the publisher was raided by the European Union in
a probe into potential manipulation of oil and biofuels prices.  “A lot of people are not happy with Platts,” Mark Turley,
president of  Pannonia Ethanol , said from the front row at the
Platts Ethanol Methodology Forum in London today. “I don’t see
any transparency.”  The EU raided the offices of Platts and oil companies  BP
Plc (BP/) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Statoil ASA (STL)  starting on May 14 to
investigate possible price manipulation and collusion by
traders. Platts, owned by McGraw Hill Financial, said May 15
that it has provided data and is cooperating with the inquiry.  Pannonia said May 16 that it lodged a complaint late last
year with EU antitrust regulators, saying Platts denied it the
opportunity to contribute to the price assessments. Jorge Montepeque, Platts director of market reporting, said at the
forum today that the company keeps its vetting of potential
participants in price assessments private because it covers
confidential or commercially sensitive information.  Traders voluntarily report bids, offers and trades to
Platts through e-mails, instant messages and phone conversations
in a defined window period each day, which are then used to
create end-of-day price assessments for various commodities,
including crude oil and ethanol. While companies are not obliged
to report their deals, any participant that makes a bid or offer
in the Platts window will have to fulfill the transaction if
asked by a counterparty. Ethanol is blended into gasoline and
sold in the  spot market  across  Europe .  Background Checks  Platts looks at a candidate’s finances, creditors, its
status with counterparties, and whether it has sufficient
logistics to deliver products as part of the vetting process in
determining which companies can participate in its windows,
Montepeque said.  “You are regulator and judge at the same time,” Rob Vierhout, secretary-general of ePURE, the European renewable
ethanol association, an industry group, said at the forum.
“Where can we settle these disputes?” he asked.  Montepeque said Platts as a publisher needs to stay
independent in its decisions and seeks to be “reasonable and
responsible” without being influenced by third parties.  Turley said Pannonia has delivered shipments and made
payments, and yet is still excluded from participating in Platts
price assessments for ethanol.  Vetting Decision  “The more I look into it, the more I get confused,” he
said at the forum. “I deal with most of the people in this room
every day, they buy ethanol off me.”  The Platts ethanol forum, which was open to the public, had
to be moved from the company’s  London  headquarters to a larger
venue to accommodate more people. Platts said 56 people attended
today.  Several participants also expressed concern that Platts
assessments didn’t always reflect true prices, especially in the
nascent and infrequently traded biofuel markets.  Arnold Kolin, Marckolsheim, France-based commercial
director of biofuels at Tereos, said Platts assessments
sometimes did not match the “real market.”  “We have a market with so few trades,” Markus Olsson,
business manager of  Lantmannen Agroetanol AB  based in
Hanholmsvagen,  Sweden , said. “And if you just put in a quote,
just from any source, without doing a check, you will be like
any social forum. You have to go in and check what is actually
quoted.”  Platts Controls  Platts said it continuously cross-checks its reporting,
corrects any mistakes and has procedures and a compliance
department to deal with complaints. The company is committed to
being “open to scrutiny,” and to making data public, said
Simon Thorne, Platts global editorial director for agriculture
and petrochemicals.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News , competes with
Platts and other companies in providing energy markets news and
information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Konstantin Rozhnov in London at 
 krozhnov@bloomberg.net ;
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  