-- Patriot in Talks With Investors to Provide Exit Funding
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2013-06-19T16:50:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/patriot-in-talks-with-investors-to-provide-exit-funding.html
(Corrects fifth paragraph to show Peabody is former
parent.)  Patriot Coal Corp. (PCXCQ)  is in talks with
Aurelius Capital Management LP and Knighthead Capital Management
LLC over a potential investment of “hundreds of millions of
dollars” that would help fund its reorganization, and seeks
court permission to pay them fees.  Patriot is negotiating with the two investors, who may
participate in a rights offering that could serve as the basis
for an exit from its Chapter 11 case, the bankrupt mining
company said in court papers filed in  bankruptcy court  in  St.
Louis  yesterday. Patriot recently won court permission to change
its agreements with unionized workers, and is still trying to
reach a consensus on how to do so, Patriot also said.  The potential investment “if consummated, will involve
Knighthead and Aurelius providing and/or backstopping hundreds
of millions of dollars of financing for the debtors’ estates,”
lawyers for the company wrote.  The company, based in St. Louis, filed for bankruptcy in
July, citing falling coal demand and $1.6 billion in lifetime
health-care obligations for its retirees. On May 29, it won
permission to reduce pensions and benefits to 13,000 unionized
workers and retirees.  Union Demonstrators  The United Mine Workers of America has objected to the
plan, and is protesting Patriot’s move to reduce benefits, even
as Patriot says it is still attempting to reach an agreement
with the union. On June 17, thousands of protesters demonstrated
in front of Patriot’s former parent company,  Peabody Energy
Corp. (BTU) , according to the UMWA.  The UMWA has contended that Patriot hasn’t been quick
enough to take action against Peabody, which profited by
spinning off Patriot in 2007, giving it 16 percent of its assets
and 40 percent of its retiree liability.  Knighthead holds $57.4 million of Patriot’s 8.25 percent
senior notes due 2018, or 23 percent of them, and Aurelius owns
$77.9 million of the same notes, or 31 percent of them,
according to court papers. Aurelius also owns $19.7 million of
Patriot’s 3.25 percent senior notes due 2013, or 10 percent of
the total amount, according to court papers.  The case In re Patriot Coal Corp., 12-51502,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Eastern District of Missouri (St. Louis).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in  New York  at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  