-- Paul Hastings, Lowenstein, Nixon Peabody: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-06-19T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/paul-hastings-lowenstein-nixon-peabody-business-of-law.html
Paul Hastings  LLP said Douglas Flaum
has joined the firm as a partner in  New York . He was previously
at Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP, where he was
head of the securities and shareholder litigation practice.  “Doug’s arrival enhances our strong litigation practice,
particularly with respect to large, complex commercial and
financial litigation,” William Sullivan, global chair of the
litigation practice at Paul Hastings, said in a statement. “His
significant real estate litigation, antitrust and white collar
expertise will also complement our strength in these practices
areas.”  Flaum has litigated cases on behalf of corporations,
directors and special board committees in complex financial and
business arrangements matters. Among his clients are Wells Fargo
& Co. and Wachovia Corp. in a series of subprime securities
shareholder cases; Goldman Sachs Group Inc.; and Brookfield
Office Properties Inc., the owner of the Zuccotti Park, where
New York’s  Occupy Wall Street  protesters camped.  Paul Hastings has lawyers at 20 offices in Asia,  Europe  and
the U.S.  Blumenfeld Moves to Lowenstein Sandler as Antitrust Head  Lowenstein Sandler LLP said Jeffrey Blumenfeld joined the
firm as chair of its antitrust and trade regulation practice in
New York. He was previously a partner in Crowell & Moring LLP’s
 Washington  office.  Blumenfeld will be a member of Lowenstein’s tech group,
where he will counsel Lowenstein’s clients and their investors
on competition issues facing emerging technology companies, the
firm said.  “Jeff’s peerless industry knowledge, entrepreneurial drive
and commitment to his clients make him an exceptionally strong
cultural fit for our firm,” Gary M. Wingens, Lowenstein
Sandler’s chairman and managing partner, said in a statement.
“At a time of increasing M&A activity across our transactional
teams, we are excited to deepen our experience base in the
competitive arena.”  Blumenfeld, who worked in the antitrust division of the
 U.S. Department of Justice , was one of the lead attorneys trying
U.S. v. AT&T and in post-divestiture litigation, the firm said.
He subsequently co-founded the law firm Blumenfeld & Cohen,
which provided competition and policy advocacy to technology
companies.  Blumenfeld also will spend time in Washington with the
firm’s senior management team, which is looking at possibly
opening an office in Washington.  Lowenstein Sandler has almost 300 lawyers in New York, New
Jersey and  California .  Bird & Bird Hires International Franchising Partner  Global franchising lawyer Mark Abell joined Bird & Bird LLP
as a partner in the newly created position of head of
franchising, licensing and multi-channel strategies. He was
previously at Field Fisher Waterhouse.  Abell built a practice on matters relating to franchising
and the internationalization and exploitation of intellectual
property rights, the firm said.  “There are excellent synergies between Mark’s expertise,
the clients he works for and Bird & Bird’s strong reputation for
protecting and commercializing ideas and brands,” David Kerr,
chief executive officer of Bird & Bird, said in a statement.  Bird & Bird has more than 1,000 lawyers in 25 offices
across Europe, the  Middle East  and Asia.  Squire Sanders Hires Private Equity Partner in Russia  Squire Sanders LLP added to its private equity practice in
Russia with partner Anton Rogoza, who joins the corporate
finance group in Moscow from Goltsblat BLP.  Rogoza specializes in private equity and has experience
with mergers and acquisitions and corporate restructuring
projects. He advises Russian and international companies on
their cross-border transactions, joint ventures and portfolio
investments in Russia.  His private equity deals have included clients such as
Baring Vostok  Capital Partners , Farallon Capital Management,
Pinebridge Investments and  European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development , the firm said in a statement.  “With his commercial insight, negotiating skills and
knowledge of the finer points of Russian and English law, Anton
will fit in seamlessly with our team in Moscow,” David Wack,
corporate partner in Moscow, said in the statement. “In the
past few years we’ve built our M&A and private equity practice
to become a market leader in Russia and we are continuing to
invest and grow the team to support our Russian and
international clients.”  Squire Sanders  has more than 1,300 lawyers in 39 offices in
19 countries.  Jackson Lewis San Francisco Class Action Head Joins Littler  Littler Mendelson PC added JoAnna Brooks as a shareholder
in the San Francisco office. Brooks was previously a partner and
head of the class action practice in Jackson Lewis LLP’s San
Francisco office.  At her old firm, Brooks was involved in more than 50 class
action litigation cases in California over the last 10 years.
She advises clients on employment best practices, and also acts
as defense counsel in cases involving harassment,
discrimination, breach of contract, wage and hour, and unfair
business practices, the firm said.  “High-profile lateral recruitment is one of the keys to
our continued success and we are excited that a top tier labor
and employment practitioner of JoAnna’s caliber joins several
others Littler has recruited over the last year,” Thomas Bender
and Jeremy Roth, co-presidents and co-managing directors of
Littler, said in a joint statement.  Littler Mendelson has more than 980 attorneys at 57 offices
throughout the Americas.  Jones Day Adds Dallas Health-Care Transactions partner  Todd P. Kelly joined the Dallas Office of  Jones Day  as a
partner in the health care and life sciences practice. He was
formerly a partner in the Dallas office of Norton Rose Fulbright
LLP.   His practice will focus on the representation of hospitals,
health systems, medical groups and other health-care providers
in connection with mergers and acquisitions, joint ventures,
affiliations and other transactional and regulatory matters, the
firm said.  Jones Day has more than 2,400 lawyers in 36 offices
worldwide.  Firm News  Joseph Lynch to Lead Nixon Peabody’s New York Office  Joseph Lynch will take over as managing partner of Nixon
Peabody LLP’s New York City office on Aug. 1, the firm said.  The office, which has almost 100 lawyers, was headed by
Arthur Rosner for more than a decade. Rosner will continue with
his real estate practice, which includes representation of real
estate development companies and individuals as well as banks
and other financial institutions in real estate finance matters.  Lynch is a partner in the firm’s affordable housing
practice within the real estate and community development
department. He has experience in representing for-profit and
nonprofit developers, owners, and managers in complex
transactions involving federal, state, and local regulations.  “Joe consistently approaches even the most challenging
tasks with optimism and great insight” Andrew I. Glincher,
Nixon Peabody chief executive officer and managing partner, said
in a statement. “I’m confident Joe will do a terrific job as he
leads our New York City attorneys in keeping pace with the
constantly changing political, social and economic landscape to
anticipate what’s coming next for our clients.”  Nixon Peabody has about 700 attorneys in the U.S., Europe,
and Asia.  Video  Yankees’ Lawyer on Manchester City MLS Partnership  Irwin Kishner, chairman of the executive committee and co-chairman of the corporate department at Herrick, Feinstein LLP,
talks with Bloomberg Law’s Spencer Mazyck about the  New York
Yankees ’ investment in a Major League Soccer expansion team in
New York, which will be controlled by Manchester City Football
Club. The league’s 20th team, New York City Football Club,
begins competing in 2015.  Kishner, in this “Rainmakers” episode, also discusses the
formation and organization of the Yankees Entertainment and
Sports Network and Legends Hospitality Management LLC, a
concessions, merchandising and management-services company
formed by the New York Yankees,  Dallas Cowboys  and Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.  This is a Bloomberg podcast. To download, watch or listen
to this report click here.  Government Lawyers  Capital One Appoints U.S. Immigration Chief to Head Compliance  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) , the lender that agreed to pay
$210 million to settle U.S. charges of deceptive marketing of
credit-card products, hired the nation’s top immigration
official to head compliance operations.  John Morton , director of U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, will join the McLean, Virginia-based bank in August
as a senior vice president,  Tatiana Stead , a company
spokeswoman, said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  “Compliance is a high priority for our company and we
couldn’t be more pleased that he will be joining our team,”
Stead said.  “John has strengthened ICE’s investigative efforts, with a
particular emphasis on border crimes, export controls,
intellectual property enforcement and child exploitation,”
Homeland Security Secretary  Janet Napolitano  said in a separate
statement.  Before joining ICE, Morton spent 15 years at the  Justice
Department , serving in multiple positions including assistant
U.S. attorney and acting deputy assistant attorney general of
the criminal division, according to Napolitano’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 