-- PBOC Sacrifices Growth as Bank Curbs Invert Swaps
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-06-19T03:44:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/pboc-sacrifices-growth-as-bank-curbs-invert-swaps.html
China ’s interest-rate traders are
the most pessimistic on economic growth in 21 months, as  Fitch
Ratings  says policy makers are focused on fixing the nation’s
banks to avert an industry crisis.  The five-year interest-rate swap, which exchanges fixed
payments for the floating seven-day repurchase rate, was 32
basis points below the one-year rate as of 11:26 a.m. in
 Shanghai , the biggest discount since September 2011, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The shorter contract jumped 22 basis
points today to 4.2 percent after the finance ministry’s 10-year
bond sale drew the lowest bid-to-cover ratio since August 2012.  “The PBOC is doing the opposite of what the banks were
hoping it would do,” said  Ju Wang , a senior strategist at HSBC
Holdings Plc in Hong Kong. “It is focusing on cleaning up the
banks’ balance sheets and the financial system in spite of the
liquidity squeeze.”  An inverted swap curve is a further sign of waning
confidence about the prospects for the world’s second-largest
economy, after Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Morgan Stanley and UBS
AG cut their 2013 growth forecasts. A report yesterday showed
property prices are defying government lending curbs and Fitch
said the cash shortage reflects a crackdown on shadow banking
that will slow expansion.  “We are going to have banking sector problems,” Charlene Chu, Fitch’s head of China financial institutions, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview in  Hong Kong  yesterday. “Those
can manifest either in a crisis or they can manifest in slow
growth.”  Money Rate  China’s  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of interbank
funding availability, has averaged 6.2 percent in June, the most
since the National Interbank Funding Center began compiling a
weighted average in 2006. The one-year swap rate rose the most
since August 2011. HSBC expects the swap curve to stay inverted
until the end of July.  A slowdown in capital inflows has contributed to the cash
shortage.  Yuan positions  at local financial institutions
accumulated from sales of foreign exchange, an indication of
capital flows into China, rose 66.86 billion yuan in May, the
central bank reported on June 14. That was the smallest gain
since November.  Failed Auctions  The cash crunch led to failures of debt auctions by the
Ministry of Finance and the Agricultural  Development Bank  of
China this month. The central bank  added  a net 92 billion  yuan 
to the financial system last week, down from 160 billion yuan in
the five days through June 6, Bloomberg data show. The PBOC has
refrained from using reverse-repurchase agreements to inject
funds since Feb. 7.  That has boosted borrowing costs for Chinese companies,
with three-month AAA commercial paper rates  increasing  102 basis
points this month to 4.92 percent, according to Chinabond data.  Regulators are forcing trust funds and wealth management
plans to shift assets into publicly traded securities, taking
so-called shadow banking funds away from property developers and
local-government finance vehicles. The China Banking Regulatory
Commission told banks in March to cap investments of client
money in debt that isn’t publicly traded at 35 percent of all
funds raised from the sale of wealth management products.  Shadow Banks  Fitch’s Chu said shadow banks had thwarted efforts to cool
the economy. The increase in  money supply  has exceeded the
government’s 13 percent target every month this year, rising
15.8 percent in May.  Aggregate financing , a measure of credit
that includes trust loans, stock and bond sales, totaled 9.1
trillion yuan in the last five months, a 50 percent jump from
the first five months of 2012.  The cash crunch is “emblematic of some of the shadow
banking issues coming to the fore as well as some of the tight
liquidity associated with wealth management product issuance,
and the crackdown on some shadow channels,” said Chu.  The  cost of insuring  sovereign notes in China against non-payment jumped 17 basis points since the end of March to 90.5
yesterday, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  Swelling Credit  The size of China’s shadow banking industry may have
started to shrink following the curbs, with official data on
June 9 showing  trust loans  fell to 99.2 billion yuan in May.
This accounted for 8.4 percent of  aggregate financing , down from
16 percent in December.  Chu earlier estimated China’s total credit, including off-balance-sheet loans, swelled to 198 percent of gross domestic
product in 2012 from 125 percent four years earlier, exceeding
increases in the ratio before banking crises in  Japan  and  South
Korea . In Japan, the measure surged 45 percentage points from
1985 to 1990, and in South Korea, it gained 47 percentage points
from 1994 to 1998, Fitch said in July 2011.  Domestic government bond markets are showing relatively few
signs of stress. Yields for 10-year government debt rose four
basis points this month to 3.48 percent, Chinabond data showed.
The yuan has appreciated 0.08 percent in June and declined 0.02
percent today to 6.1298, according to the China Foreign Exchange
Trade System.  Slowing Growth  PBOC Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said on April 20 that the
nation needs to “sacrifice short-term growth” to make reforms
in the economy, while new Premier  Li Keqiang  told German
business leaders on May 27 his country is confronted by “huge
challenges” as it seeks 7 percent annual growth this decade,
down from more than 10 percent in the previous 10 years.  A weak economy, coupled with easing inflation, will give
the central bank room to loosen monetary policy, according to
Ming Tan, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Jefferies Group Inc.  China’s trade and inflation data for May trailed estimates.
Exports rose 1 percent from a year earlier, down from 14.7
percent in April, while imports dropped 0.3 percent. The median
estimates of analysts were for 7.4 percent export growth and 6.6
percent import gains. The  consumer price index  rose 2.1 percent,
down from 2.4 percent in April.  “Recent weak macro data and low CPI figures may prompt the
central bank to loosen more,” Tan wrote in a research note on
June 17. “We believe the PBOC will most likely inject more
liquidity through open-market operations.”  Chinese property prices rose at the fastest pace in more
than two years in major cities in May, constraining the ability
of policy makers to ease credit. New home prices in Beijing,
Shanghai and Guangzhou posted the biggest gains since at least
January 2011, and 69 of the 70 cities tracked by the government
showed increases, the most since August 2011.  “Rising property prices make it difficult for policymakers
to loosen monetary policy in the short term,” said Zhang Zhiwei, Hong Kong-based chief China economist at Nomura Holdings
Inc., who previously worked at the  International Monetary Fund .
“We expect the government to continue focusing on containing
financial risks in the next month.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  