-- Peru Debt Risk Rises on Castilla Speculation, Barclays Says
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2013-06-19T20:35:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/peru-debt-risk-rises-on-castilla-speculation-barclays-says.html
The risk of investing in Peruvian
debt is rising as investors weigh the possibility that Finance
Minister Miguel Castilla will resign from office, Barclays Plc
said.  The cost to protect Peruvian bonds against non-payment for
five years using credit default swaps rose by seven basis
points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 143 basis points at 2:39
p.m. in Lima, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Investors are concerned that President Ollanta Humala would
shift economic policy should Castilla leave, Alejandro Grisanti,
an economist at Barclays Plc, said by phone from  New York  today.
Castilla’s appointment in July 2011 helped convince many
investors that Humala, a former army rebel, wouldn’t increase
state interference in the economy. The  Finance Ministry ’s press
office didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail from Bloomberg
seeking comment about the finance minister’s plans.  Castilla, an economist educated at  Johns Hopkins University 
in Baltimore and  Harvard University  in Cambridge,  Massachusetts ,
was deputy finance minister under Humala’s predecessor  Alan Garcia .  In an April 28 interview with state news agency Andina,
Castilla denied he had resigned after Lima-based Expreso
newspaper said he quit in protest over Humala’s plans to bid for
local assets of Repsol SA. Humala told reporters May 24 he had
no plans to change cabinet members.  Speculation over his possible resignation has mounted on a
possible conflict with Humala over fiscal austerity, Grisanti
said. While Castilla’s replacement probably would maintain
existing macroeconomic policies, any change in the post may
cause unease among investors, he said.  ‘Base Scenario’  “Our base scenario is that Humala remains on the path he’s
on now that allowed him to win the presidency,” Grisanti said.
“Rumors he’ll abandon this path appear to come from groups
seeking to damage his popularity. Sometimes the rumor causes
concern among investors and leads them to sell.”  Barclays recommends investors buy five-year credit default
swaps for  Peru  and sell protection for Mexico and/or Colombia.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a borrower
fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  Peru this year will post the fastest economic growth among
major South American countries, according to analysts polled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  