-- Pfizer Share Swap for Animal Health Stake Hits Top Limit
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-06-20T20:08:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/pfizer-share-swap-for-animal-health-stake-hits-top-limit.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  will offer shareholders
a 5 percent premium to exchange their stock for shares of  Zoetis
Inc. (ZTS)  as the world’s biggest drugmaker spins off its remaining
stake in the animal health company.  The premium is worth as much as $600 million, compared with
what Pfizer could get for its own shares at yesterday’s closing
price of $29.10. Pfizer announced that investors will get  0.9898
shares  of Zoetis for each Pfizer share they swap and have until
tomorrow to decide whether to participate.  The deal will complete the current phase of Chief Executive
Officer  Ian Read ’s plan to shed non-drug units and focus Pfizer
on developing and selling new, brand-name therapies. The New
York-based company is next looking at whether it will split
itself and get rid of its generics drug business as well, which
could happen in the next three years.  The exchange announcement almost completes the spinoff of
the animal health company. Because of the way the deal is
structured, investors who offered shares for exchange will get
two more days after the original deadline to decide whether they
want to turn them in, Pfizer said yesterday in a statement.  The drugmaker has held 80 percent of Zoetis since an
initial public offering in January. If investors trade their
shares for all of Pfizer’s stake, it will cut $12 billion in
outstanding shares.  Pfizer is expected to announce next week how many shares
are being exchanged. Before the two-day extension as of 4 p.m.
yesterday, investors had offered 868 million shares of Pfizer,
more than double the amount the company has in Zoetis shares to
give out. Investors will get a pro-rated amount of Zoetis stock,
the company has said.  Exchange Ratio  The exchange ratio was based on an average price of Pfizer
and Zoetis shares, with  0.9898  being the upper limit for the
swap. Pfizer’s stock fell 1.6 percent to $28.64 at 4 p.m. New
York time. Zoetis fell 2.6 percent to $30.19.  The transaction is designed to give Pfizer  shareholders  an
incentive to exchange part of their holdings and let the
drugmaker close out its stake in Zoetis. Under the terms, Pfizer
shareholders are expected to get about $105 worth of Zoetis for
every $100 of Pfizer stock accepted in the exchange.  Zoetis is based in  Florham Park ,  New Jersey , and makes and
sells drugs and treatments for animals. Livestock products make
up  65 percent of its sales , while medicines for pets account for
the rest. Much of the company’s growth depends on rising wealth
levels around the world, as people eat more meat and care for
companion animals. Zoetis shares fell less than 1 percent to $31
at yesterday’s close in New York.  When the transaction is done, it will give Pfizer what is
essentially a multibillion-dollar share buyback, and will help
boost earnings per share by cutting Pfizer’s share count. Pfizer
sold a 20 percent stake of Zoetis in January, in an IPO worth
$2.24 billion.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of America Corp., Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley managed the deal. Skadden, Arps,
Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP acted as legal adviser.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  