-- Phone Intercepts by U.S. Hurts News Flow, AP Chief Says
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-06-19T19:06:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/phone-intercepts-by-u-s-hurts-news-flow-ap-chief-says.html
The U.S.  Justice Department ’s secret
collection of phone records of Associated Press reporters and
editors has thwarted its news gathering, AP Chief Executive
Officer Gary Pruitt said.  Sources are reluctant to talk to reporters after
disclosures that the Justice Department obtained the records,
without notifying the  news agency , for an investigation into who
leaked information about a foiled terrorist plot in Yemen.  “Some of our longtime, trusted sources have become nervous
and anxious about talking to us, even on stories that aren’t
about national security,” Pruitt said today at a lunch
sponsored by the  National Press Club  in  Washington .  The monitoring was an “unprecedented intrusion” on First
Amendment free-speech protections, Pruitt said. He called on the
U.S. to strengthen rules protecting journalists, including by
passing a federal shield law that would let reporters protect
anonymous sources, and toughening the Justice Department
guidelines to discourage the secret collection of records.  The Justice Department had also obtained a search warrant
for e-mails and telephone records of a Fox News reporter as part
of a separate investigation into a 2009 leak on  North Korea ’s
nuclear program, the department said May 24 in a statement.  The U.S. attorney’s office in Washington on May 10 told the
AP, which is owned by 1,400 U.S. newspapers, that prosecutors
had obtained a subpoena for the telephone records of editors and
reporters. The monitoring continued for 40 days, Pruitt said.
U.S. investigators are focused on a leak of details about an
intelligence operation in  Yemen . A May 7, 2012, AP story
reported details on the operation that foiled a plot to blow up
an airliner about a year after the death of al-Qaeda leader
Osama bin Laden.  Americans have the right to know that an attack was plotted
and their government was able to stop it, Pruitt said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  