-- Polish Industrial Output Slowed in May in Boost to Rate-Cut Case
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l   a n d   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2013-06-19T12:07:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/polish-industrial-output-slowed-in-may-in-boost-to-rate-cut-case.html
Polish  industrial-output 
fell for a third month in four, boosting the case for an
interest-rate cut at the central bank’s July meeting.  Production declined 1.8 percent from a year earlier in May,
after increasing 2.7 percent the previous month, the Central
Statistical Office in Warsaw said today. That’s in line with the
median estimate for a 1.9 percent contraction in a  Bloomberg
survey (POISCYOY)  of 30 economists.  The data follows a report showing inflation at a seven-year
low of 0.5 percent and comes two weeks before policy makers
gather to decide whether they should cut the benchmark interest
rate for an eighth time in less than a year. The economic
slowdown is “deeper and more sustained” than policy makers had
expected, Governor Marek Belka said June 5.  “Industrial output remains weak, showing no signs of a
clear rebound,”  Piotr Bielski , an economist at Bank Zachodni
WBK, said by phone before the figures were released. “Along
with data on consumer and producer prices, the industrial-output
figures support expectations for a cut in July.”  In a separate report, the office said producer prices fell
2.5 percent from a year earlier, also in line with the 2.4
percent median contraction predicted by 23 economists  surveyed 
by Bloomberg. Prices rose 0.1 percent from the previous month.  The Narodowy Bank Polski trimmed its  benchmark rate  to a
record 2.75 percent on June 5 as policy makers seek to counter
the worst economic slowdown in a decade. The European Union’s
largest eastern economy will expand 1.5 percent this year, the
government forecasts.  The 10-member Monetary Policy Council will hold its rate
meeting July 2-3. It will pause in August and resume meetings in
September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  