-- Poloz Urges ‘Stability and Patience’ for Canada Rebound
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-06-19T20:53:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/poloz-urges-stability-and-patience-for-canada-rebound.html
Bank of Canada  Governor Stephen Poloz said the nation will need a rebound in business investment
to drive growth in coming years, a process that will require
“stability and patience.”  Stronger U.S. demand for  Canada ’s exports is critical for
confidence to improve and spending to increase, Poloz said in
his first public speech since taking office June 3. Companies
already have the capacity to take on more debt and increase
investments, he said.  “This sequence may already be under way,” Poloz said in a
speech he gave today to the Oakville Chamber of Commerce.
“Right now, what we need most is stability and patience.”  While the Bank of Canada has been alone in the Group of
Seven in signaling that its next move may be to raise interest
rates, economists are anticipating Poloz won’t tighten policy
until the end of next year at the earliest, in part to avoid a
strengthening of the Canadian dollar that could undermine
business confidence and exports.  The reference to patience suggests “a prolonged pause” in
rates,  Derek Holt , a Toronto-based economist at Bank of  Nova
Scotia , said in a note to investors. “The Bank of Canada is
suggesting it sees the early nascent stages of a positive
process that will take a long time to unfold.”  At the same time, Poloz suggested there’s little else the
central bank can do to speed the rotation other than continue to
provide stimulus.  ‘Mother Nature’  “It’s a matter of letting Mother Nature do her usual
job,” Poloz told reporters after the speech. “We have already
set the table;  interest rates  are low, there is plenty of
stimulus in the system.”  “If your question is, is there something else that we can
do at this stage, we would say, well, no,” Poloz said. “We
already have a great deal of monetary stimulus in the system and
we can see that it’s working, and I think we need to be patient
and allow those confidence effects to work themselves out.”  The Canadian dollar fell as Poloz’s remarks contrasted with
comments from U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  that
risks to that economy have decreased and policy makers could end
bond purchases in the middle of next year. The currency weakened
0.7 percent to C$1.0278 per  U.S. dollar  at 4:03 p.m. in Toronto,
on signs of faster monetary tightening in the U.S. that would
make interest-bearing assets there more attractive.  Scotiabank doesn’t expect a Canadian rate increase until
2015. Economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  earlier this year
forecast the central bank will increase its key rate to 1.5
percent in the fourth quarter next year.  Rate Bias  Canada’s  benchmark interest rate  has been 1 percent since
September 2010, and for more than a year policy makers have said
the next move will probably be an increase. The bank’s bias to
raise  interest rates  contrasts with U.S. and Japanese central
bank measures of buying assets to rekindle growth.  Policy makers are in the “early stage” of distilling
information to be used in his first rate decision, scheduled for
July 17, Poloz said. He declined to comment on whether he will
keep the bias to raise rates.  Canada’s uneven recovery can be seen in Oakville, a city
about 50 kilometers (30 miles) southwest of Toronto. Oakville is
home to bankers who commute east to Toronto, as well as the
local headquarters of  Ford Motor Co. (F) , which in 2011 closed a
nearby plant that made the Crown Victoria and Lincoln Town Car
sedans. Ford’s Oakville factory currently makes the Ford Edge
and Flex and Lincoln MKX and MKT.  Record Debts  Poloz reiterated in his speech that “interest rates will
rise at some point,” a comment he made in reference to past
warnings to consumers about debts that reached a record 165
percent of disposable income.  Consumer spending  will be more “neutral” for the pace of
economic growth in the next several years as households focus on
controlling debt, Poloz said, adding he isn’t “seeing any
evidence of overheating” in the housing market.  The central bank’s own survey of company executives has
shown a decline for investment intentions in recent quarters,
while capital spending outside of  home construction  stalled in
the first quarter, growing at a 0.7 percent annualized pace,
according to  Statistics Canada .  Poloz said the central bank can help boost confidence by
keeping  inflation  “predictable, stable and on target” and
providing information about the economy and the central bank’s
“monetary policy response.”  Exporters Hurt  Poloz, 57, who was chief executive officer of  Export
Development Canada , a government trade financing agency, before
returning to the central bank, said manufacturing exporters were
the segment of the economy “most profoundly affected” by the
global recession. He likened the recovery to “postwar
reconstruction” and said standard macroeconomic models can only
“go so far” in capturing the dynamics of the global economy,
requiring the central bank to gather insights “directly from
business.”  “What needs to happen next is for export momentum to build
and business investment to recover while the household sector
settles into a more balanced and sustainable growth path,”
Poloz said.  The Bank of Canada’s inflation-targeting framework is
“sacrosanct,” Poloz said, adding there is “little room for
conventional monetary policy to respond to negative shocks”
when inflation falls below target and interest rates are low.
While the bank targets a 2 percent annual rise in consumer
prices, Canada’s annual  inflation  rate fell to 0.4 percent in
April, Statistics Canada said last month, the slowest in more
than three years.  “These comments reinforce our view that Bank will likely
remain on the sidelines through the remainder of this year and
probably well into the first half of 2014,” said  John Clinkard ,
chief Canada economist at Deutsche Bank AG.  Today’s speech coincides with a meeting of the Bank of
Canada’s board of directors. Carney had been originally
scheduled to make the speech until he was named  Bank of England 
governor-designate last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa  at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Quinn in Burlington, Ontario at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  