-- Poloz Seen Signaling Low Rate to Stay in Canada Speech
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-06-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/poloz-seen-signaling-low-rate-to-stay-in-canada-speech.html
Bank of Canada  Governor Stephen Poloz will probably use his first public speech since taking
office today to stress that rebuilding business investment is a
key challenge, suggesting he won’t tighten monetary policy soon.  The Bank of Canada has said growth needs to be driven by
exports and business spending, so comments Poloz makes about the
need to encourage investment will probably lead investors to
conclude he won’t raise the 1 percent  policy interest rate  until
at least the second half of next year, according to economists
from some of Canada’s largest banks.  “It’s an uneven recovery,” said Emanuella Enenajor, an
economist at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in Toronto.
“That’s why the Bank of Canada is going to continue its
stimulative low-rate policy.”  Poloz will speak on “Recovery: Rebuilding Business
Confidence in Canada” to the Oakville, Ontario Chamber of
Commerce, with remarks published on the central bank’s  website 
at 12:25 p.m.  New York  time. His speech follows June 6
parliamentary testimony where he said improving confidence will
follow signs of stronger exports and lead to increased company
spending.  While  Statistics Canada  reported May 31 that exports
rebounded in the first quarter, final domestic demand -- an
aggregate of consumption,  government spending  and business
investment -- rose at a 0.6 percent annualized pace, the slowest
since the first quarter of 2009.  Under former Governor  Mark Carney , the central bank was
alone in the Group of Seven in signaling that its next move may
be to raise  interest rates . Carney said the bank’s tightening
bias was meant in part to discourage consumers from adding to
record debts.  Same Approach  Analysts including Toronto-Dominion Bank Chief Economist
 Craig Alexander  say that Poloz will probably keep the same
approach. “The Bank of Canada is going to continue to signal
that the next move in rates is up, but no time soon,” he said.  The central bank’s survey of business executives has shown
a decline in business investment  intentions  in recent quarters,
one reason the Toronto-Dominion Bank chief economist yesterday
cut his forecast for new expenditures.  Poloz also told lawmakers earlier this month that the Bank
of Canada’s inflation-targeting framework is “sacrosanct.”
While the bank targets a 2 percent annual rise in consumer
prices, Canada’s annual  inflation  rate fell to 0.4 percent in
April, Statistics Canada said last month, the slowest in more
than three years.  “There is clearly not sufficient demand in the economy to
get inflation back up to the bank’s 2 percent target anytime
soon,” said William Robson, President of the C.D. Howe
Institute in Toronto, a nonprofit and nonpartisan group that
researches economic and social policy and runs a shadow monetary
policy council.  Stay Low  “It’s clear the policy rate has to stay low and for longer
than policy makers were thinking,” Robson said by telephone.  If Poloz’s remarks emphasize low business confidence,
“that would suggest he is likely to continue accommodative
monetary policy,” said Erin Weir, an economist at the United
Steelworkers union in Toronto. “There’s been some pickup in
business investment but I don’t know whether it’s enough to
sustain economic growth in a situation where households may not
be able to keep spending and governments are trying to cut
back.”  Canada ’s uneven recovery can be seen in Oakville, a city
about 50 kilometers (30 miles) southwest of Toronto. Oakville is
home to bankers who commute east to bank headquarters in
Toronto, as well as the local headquarters of Ford Motor Co.,
which in 2011 closed a nearby plant that made the Crown Victoria
and Lincoln Town Car sedans. Ford’s Oakville factory currently
makes the Ford Edge and Flex and Lincoln MKX and MKT.  Deep Background  Poloz, 57, has a deep background in export-focused
companies such as Ford Canada. He was chief executive officer of
 Export Development Canada , a government trade financing agency,
before returning to the central bank where he started his
career.  “Poloz seems to be much more focused on the business side
and ’Let’s get businesses investing and borrowing,’” said  Dawn Desjardins , assistant chief economist at Royal Bank of Canada in
Toronto, in an interview.  Poloz’s remarks will be followed by a press conference at
2:15 p.m., 15 minutes after the U.S. Federal Reserve is
scheduled to make its interest-rate announcement and 15 minutes
before Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has his own press conference in
 Washington .  The speech also coincides with a meeting of the Bank of
Canada’s board of directors. Carney had been originally
scheduled to make the speech until he was named  Bank of England 
governor-designate last year.  “We were close to finalizing hosting Governor Carney, then
of course he announced that he was leaving,” said  John Sawyer ,
Oakville chamber president, by telephone. “I was shaving, and
the lead story on the news was Governor Carney was going to
 England  -- I nearly cut myself.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  