-- Gilts Advance as BOE Minutes Show Some Support for U.K. Stimulus
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2013-06-19T15:30:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/pound-falls-versus-major-peers-as-gilts-climb-after-boe-minutes.html
U.K. government bonds rose for the
first time in three days as the minutes of the Bank of England’s
most recent policy meeting showed some officials said more
monetary stimulus was justified.  The gains pushed 10-year yields down from the highest in a
week as investors awaited a press conference from Federal
Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke, who may signal when the U.S.
central bank will slow its bond-buying program. The nine-member
Monetary Policy Committee voted 6-3 kept its  target  for asset
purchases at 375 billion pounds ($587 billion) this month,
according to the minutes of their June 5-6 meeting published
today in  London . The pound was little changed.  “The doves have their view and the hawks have their views
and there isn’t going to be much shifting,” said  Marc Ostwald ,
a strategist at Monument Securities Ltd. in London. “Everything
is focused on the U.S. and what it does for risk markets” and
core bond markets including gilts, he said.  Benchmark 10-year gilt yields fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 2.13 percent at 4:29 p.m. London time,
after increasing eight basis points in the previous two days.
The 1.75 percent bond due September 2022 rose 0.065, or 65 pence
per 1,000-pound face amount, to 96.835. The  30-year yield  fell
two basis points to 3.42 percent.  Stimulus ‘Compelling’  Bank of England Governor Mervyn King lost in his final vote
before being replaced by Mark Carney next month, the minutes
showed. For some officials “the case for more monetary stimulus
remained compelling,” the minority said.  While officials noted that the inflation outlook was “a
little more favorable,” the majority said that inflation may
the majority said that inflation may continue to be above the 2
percent target for the rest of the year.  Gilts handed investors a loss of 1.8 percent this year
through yesterday, according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes.
German bonds dropped 1 percent and Treasuries declined 1.1
percent, the indexes show.  Bernanke will hold a press conference today in  Washington 
after policy makers end their meeting. Bernanke said last month
the Fed could reduce its $85 billion in monthly bond purchases
if there’s sustainable improvement in employment. Bank of Canada
Governor Stephen Poloz, who replaced Carney, is scheduled to
make his first public speech since taking office today.  “In terms of central bankers, it’s an interesting day but
clearly Bernanke has the spotlight,” said Jane Foley, senior
foreign-exchange strategist at Rabobank International in London.
On the pound, investors are “looking ahead to Carney and the
market is anticipating that he is a dove, and that he could
herald quite significant change,” she said.  The pound traded at 85.62 pence per euro after depreciating
yesterday to 85.85 pence, the weakest level since May 30.
Sterling was at $1.5655 after slipping to $1.5566 yesterday, the
lowest since June 11.  The pound has strengthened 3.2 percent in the past three
months, the best performer after the euro among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes. Europe’s common currency gained 3.6 percent, while the
dollar fell 0.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  