-- Pound Too Strong as BOE Prepares for Carney Era
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-06-19T20:14:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/pound-too-strong-as-boe-prepares-for-carney-era-market-reversal.html
The pound’s rally to a four-month
high against the dollar is proving too much for currency traders
unsure whether Mark Carney will step up stimulus efforts when he
takes over as Bank of England governor next month.  Sterling’s failure to extend its advance after rising above
its 200-day moving average on June 13 may be a signal its
winning streak is ending, according to Barclays Plc. The pound
is also approaching a key Fibonacci retracement level where sell
orders tend to be clustered, while the stochastic oscillator
crossed a threshold that implies an imminent reversal.  “We’re at a point where sterling is a bit stretched,” Ken Dickson, an Edinburgh-based director for foreign exchange at
Standard Life Investments Ltd., which oversees about $281
billion, said in a phone interview on June 17. “It could be
pretty difficult to get beyond here in the near term.”  Dickson predicted the currency may fall to about $1.53 in
two weeks, from $1.5480 at 4:12 p.m. in New York, after rising
from $1.5009 on May 29.  The pound rallied about 5 percent from an almost three-year
low of $1.4832 in March as Britain’s economy avoided an
unprecedented  triple-dip  recession and inflation accelerated.
While that suggests the Bank of England may pull back from
stimulus measures that would debase the currency, Carney has
said central banks can do more to aid growth, prompting analysts
to forecast more weakness for the pound.  Historic Gains  Britain’s currency climbed above the 200-day moving average
June 13 for the first time this year. When the pound surpassed
that level in August and April 2012, it went on to gain as much
as 3.9 percent during the following month, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  That the currency hasn’t appreciated this time means its
advance may be exhausted, Barclays technical analysts including
Jordan Kotick in New York wrote in a June 17 note.  “Lack of upside traction through the 200-day average near
$1.5698 is helping to keep us bearish for sterling versus the
dollar,” according to the analysts. A move below $1.5615
“would encourage our bearish view toward initial targets in the
$1.5490 area,” they wrote.  The stochastic indicator for the pound versus the dollar
was at 88 on June 17, before falling back to 57 yesterday,
indicating a selloff. The signal measures the current price
relative to the highest high and lowest low during a certain
period to determine if a currency is overbought or oversold.
When the gauge rises above 80, an oversold condition, and
crosses below its moving average, traders consider it a bearish
indicator.  Fibonacci Chart  The pound rose as high as $1.5752 on June 17, 0.2 percent
from the $1.5789 resistance level that represents its 61.8
percent retracement of this year’s high and low based on a
Fibonacci chart, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Fibonacci retracement is named after a 12th century Italian
mathematician and based on the theory that prices rise or fall
by predictable amounts after reaching a high or low. In this and
other forms of technical analysis, investors study charts of
trading patterns and prices to predict changes in a currency,
security or index.  “The evidence technically is that the pound is going to
struggle to push through,”  Richard Adcock , a technical
strategist at UBS AG in London, said in a June 17 phone
interview. “There will be correction to the downside again to
unwind the upside extreme.”  Relative Strength  The pound’s 14-day relative strength index versus the
dollar climbed to 69.6 on June 13 and was at 51 today, compared
with the 70 level that indicates a currency has risen too far,
too fast. When sterling breached the threshold in September, it
started falling within a week, and during the following two
months had tumbled 2.7 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Carney, who takes the helm of the BOE on July 1, said
earlier this year that central banks aren’t “maxed out,”
fueling speculation he’ll favor measures such as bond purchases.
The minutes of the bank’s June 5-6 meeting published today
showed that outgoing Governor Mervyn King lost his final policy
vote, with officials blocking his bid for more stimulus.  It’s too soon to unwind policy that’s produced
“unsustainably low” interest rates, King said in his annual
Mansion House speech in  London  today. The bank has held its key
interest rate at a record low of 0.5 percent since March 2009. A
recent jump in bond yields shouldn’t be confused with a “return
to normality,” King said.  The pound will weaken to $1.49 by the end of this year,
according to the median estimate of analysts in a Bloomberg News
survey.  Economic Data  Consumer prices  in Europe’s third-biggest economy rose 2.7
percent last month from a year earlier, compared with a 2.4
percent increase in April, the Office for National Statistics in
London said yesterday. Gross domestic grew 0.3 percent in the
first quarter of this year, an official report confirmed May 23.
That helped the pound climb versus 11 of the 16 most-traded
currencies tracked by Bloomberg over the past month.  While growth has returned to Britain, its projected 0.9
percent expansion this year will be 1 percentage point slower
than the U.S.’s, according to Bloomberg surveys of economists.  “There are question marks about how far this strength will
continue,” Karen Jones, a London-based technical strategist at
Commerzbank AG, said in a June 17 phone interview. “My core
scenario is that we’ll see failure between here and $1.58. The
longer-term trend remains bearish.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  