-- Prudential Hires Grosvenor’s Su for Asia Real Estate
-- B y   M e g a n   H i c k e y
-- 2013-06-19T22:04:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/prudential-hires-grosvenor-s-su-for-asia-real-estate.html
Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU)  hired
Eryck Su as managing director and chief investment officer of
its Asia-Pacific real estate business as the second-largest U.S.
life insurer pursues deals in  China .  Su joins Prudential Real Estate Investors from Grosvenor
Fund Management, the  Newark , New Jersey-based insurer said in a
statement yesterday. Su will lead PREI’s strategy in China and
oversee regional acquisitions and dispositions while helping
with portfolio management. He’ll be based in Hong Kong.  Prudential is expanding real estate operations outside the
U.S. as the company seeks to generate fee income from investors.
The insurer hired Morgan Laughlin in March to run the Asia
operation and said this week it joined a venture in Abu Dhabi to
acquire luxury residences on the emirate’s Saadiyat Island.  Su “brings a range of debt and equity investing experience
that will expand our team’s ability to build strong partnerships
in the region and find the best possible investment
opportunities for our clients around the world,” Laughlin said
in the statement.  PREI had about $4.5 billion in net assets under management
in Asia as of Dec. 31, up from $3.9 billion 18 months earlier,
according to company statements.  Su was managing director and head of Greater China for
closely held Grosvenor, according to Prudential. A call to
London-based Grosvenor for comment wasn’t immediately returned.
Su was previously the Asia-Pacific head of acquisitions at
Deutsche Bank AG’s real estate investment management division.  He has a bachelor’s degree in economics from the University
of Sydney and a graduate diploma in banking from Monash
University in  Melbourne .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Megan Hickey in  New York  at 
 mhickey18@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story: 