-- Putin Tours New Production Hub for Missiles Withheld From Syria
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2013-06-19T14:09:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/putin-tours-new-production-hub-for-missiles-withheld-from-syria.html
President Vladimir Putin toured a
new production hub for components of the surface-to-air missile
systems that Syria has ordered and that  Russia  is withholding
under international pressure.  Putin oversaw demonstrations today of the new-generation
S-400 system, which isn’t for export, and a modernized version
of the S-300 that Syrian President Bashar al-Assad is seeking,
at the Obukhovsky facility on the outskirts of St. Petersburg,
his hometown.  The 20 billion-ruble ($620 million) facility, run by state
weapons manufacturer OAO Air Defense Concern Almaz-Antei, is due
to be completed by 2015 and is being financed mostly by state-run VTB Group, Russia’s second-largest lender, according to a
government fact sheet.  Russia is also developing an S-500 variant to guard against
threats from “near space,” Putin said after visiting an
assembly line and testing hall adorned with posters with the
slogan, “High Technologies Guard the Peaceful Sky.”  The S-300 is a long-range surface-to-air missile, first
deployed by the Soviet Union in the late 1970s. It can engage 12
targets simultaneously at ranges of as long as 200 kilometers
(124 miles). The U.S. has told Russia that sales of advanced
missile systems to  Syria  would be “destabilizing” for  Israel ’s
security, Secretary of State John Kerry said in  Rome  on May 9.  Tel Aviv  Israel considers the S-300 an offensive weapon because
Syria could use it against airplanes over Tel Aviv, Minister of
International Relations Yuval Steinitz said May 28.  Assad expressed confidence that all arms agreements between
Syria and Russia will be honored, in an interview broadcast May
30 by Hezbollah’s Al Manar television. Putin has said that
Russia hasn’t delivered the S-300s to Syria to avoid upsetting
the regional balance of power.  “It’s perhaps the best such weapon in the world,” Putin
said at a briefing with European Commission head Jose Barroso
and European Union President Herman Van Rompuy in the Urals
regional capital of Yekaterinburg on June 4. “We don’t want to
alter the balance in the region. The contract was signed several
years ago. It hasn’t yet been fulfilled.”  Still, Putin hasn’t ruled out signing new arms contracts
with Syria, where the United Nations estimates that about 80,000
people have died in civil war.  “We supply arms under legal contracts to legitimate
governments,” Putin said at the Group of Eight summit in
Northern Ireland yesterday. “This is President Assad’s
government. If we will sign such contracts, we will deliver.”  U.S. President  Barack Obama , Putin and the other G-8
leaders agreed on a statement backing the establishment of a
transitional government in Syria as quickly as possible,
stopping short of calling for Assad’s ouster.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  