-- Rand Gains First Time in 4 Days as Bonds Rise on Current Account
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-06-19T10:23:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/rand-gains-first-time-in-4-days-as-bonds-rise-on-current-account.html
The rand strengthened for the first
time in four days against the dollar, the most among major
currencies, after  South Africa ’s current-account deficit
unexpectedly narrowed and inflation slowed more than estimates.  The currency appreciated 0.5 percent to 9.9408 per dollar
at 11:23 a.m. in Johannesburg, while the yield on benchmark 13.5
percent bonds due September 2015 fell 14 basis points to 6.12
percent, the most since May 2. The current account shortfall
narrowed to 5.8 percent of gross domestic product in the first
quarter, from 6.5 percent the previous three months, the  South
African reserve Bank  said. The median estimate of economists in
a Bloomberg survey was for the gap to widen to 6.9 percent.  A narrowing deficit requires less foreign investment to pay
for imports, reducing pressure on the currency as  flows  into the
nation’s bond market slow on speculation the U.S. Federal
Reserve is set to reduce monetary easing. Slowing inflation
gives the central bank more room to hold borrowing costs at
three-decade lows to stimulate the economy.  “Investors are pricing in a reduced chance of the  Reserve
Bank  having to hike interest rates,” Robert Price, a market
analyst at ETM Analytics in Johannesburg, said by phone. “The
rand would have reacted more strongly but the market is still
quite cautious ahead of the Federal Open Market Committee”
press conference later today.  A separate report showed South Africa’s consumer inflation
rate slowed to 5.6 percent in May, from 5.9 percent the previous
month. The median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey
was 5.8 percent. Fed policy makers are concluding a two-day
meeting amid speculation the bank is poised to reduce bond
purchases which have fueled demand for emerging-market debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  