-- Raytheon Contests U.S. Backing Lockheed Anti-Ship Missile
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-06-19T12:25:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/raytheon-contests-u-s-backing-lockheed-anti-ship-missile.html
Raytheon Co. (RTN) , the world’s largest
missile maker, is challenging a Pentagon plan to use a  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT)  anti-ship weapon and is asking for a chance to
offer an alternative.  “We think it should be an open competition,” Raytheon
Vice President Harry Schulte told reporters today at the  Paris
Air Show .  The U.S. Defense Department should seek other offers
instead of just pressing ahead with an adaptation of Lockheed
Martin’s Jassm missile to arm combat jets, Schulte said. The
Pentagon plans to spend about $1 billion for development of the
missile from the next budget year through fiscal 2018.  Raytheon has long dominated Navy missile programs with
weapons that include the ship- and submarine-launched Tomahawk
cruise missile and the AIM-9 dogfighting weapon on combat jets.
Navy jets also use the so-called JSOW glide missile, and the
Waltham, Massachusetts-based company proposes adding a motor to
attack ships at long range.  “A powered JSOW would be a third or a fourth of the cost”
of a modified Lockheed Martin missile, Schulte said. “If you
look at the current price of the Jassm, it is fairly
significant.”  Own Money  Raytheon is spending its own money to demonstrate its
missile’s capabilities, said Schulte, who once backed the
weapons from Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed Martin in favor
of JSOW when he ran U.S. Air Force arms programs. A powered
Raytheon missile would be able to fly almost 300 miles (483
kilometers).  Representatives of Lockheed Martin, the world’s largest
defense contractor, weren’t immediately available for comment at
the air show today. Raytheon’s missile systems business was the
company’s biggest by revenue in its 2012 fiscal year, at $5.69
billion of a total of $24.4 billion.  Schulte said it isn’t clear how many missiles are at stake
in a program that should start seeing significant funding
starting in October, when the U.S. government’s fiscal year
begins.  The project, called the Offensive Anti-Surface Warfare
Weapon, is due to deliver a missile before 2025 with a contract
award to begin development in the 2015 fiscal year, according to
the Pentagon’s latest budget plan. Details such as the cost of
each weapon aren’t yet available.  Raytheon also faces a loss of business in ship-based strike
weapons under the government’s plan to arm Navy vessels with a
version of the Lockheed missile. Upgrading the Tomahawk cruise
missile, which was used as recently as in the war in  Libya ,
would be cheaper, Schulte said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in Paris at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  