-- Renault Cooperates With Nissan in Modular-Production Plan
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-06-19T15:12:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/renault-cooperates-with-nissan-in-modular-production-plan.html
Renault SA (RNO) , France’s second-biggest
carmaker, is introducing a modular-production strategy with
Japanese partner  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  as the manufacturers work to
reduce spending by building more vehicles in common.  The common module family technology will help the carmakers
cut engineering and process costs 30 percent to 40 percent and
spending on parts 20 percent to 30 percent by 2020, Jean-Michel Billig, executive vice president of engineering and quality,
said at a press conference today.  “Our aim is to cut the number of our suppliers globally as
we develop our product line at the international level,” Billig
told reporters at Renault headquarters in the Paris suburb of
Boulogne-Billancourt.  European carmakers are under increasing pressure to keep
costs down as they push into growth markets such as  China ,
 Brazil  and  Russia  to reduce reliance on their shrinking domestic
economies. Renault and Yokohama-based Nissan have had a sales
and manufacturing partnership since 1999, while Turin, Italy-based  Fiat SpA (F)  is increasingly using common components with
Chrysler Group LLC, the U.S. auto producer it controls.  Renault and Nissan vehicles will share about 50 percent of
parts by 2020 through the new strategy, Billig said. The setup
will help the French company maintain research and development
 spending  at current levels of 8 percent to 9 percent of full-year revenue, he said.  The technology, in which suppliers provide larger
components made of smaller parts that were previously installed
separately, will be introduced this year and next on production
of the the partners’ compact and larger models. That represents
1.6 million vehicles annually and 14 models for the Renault-Nissan alliance, Billig said.  The module program will be expanded to the companies’
subcompacts in 2015 and to their city cars in 2016, he said.  The first models built under the new system will be the
next versions of Nissan’s Rogue, Qashqai and X-Trail sport-utility vehicles coming on the market in 2013 and Renault’s
Espace mid-size car being introduced in 2014, Billig said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  