-- Russian May Consumer Demand Probably Weakened as Economy Worsens
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-06-19T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/russian-may-consumer-demand-probably-weakened-as-economy-worsens.html
Russian  consumer spending  probably
eased and investment shrank at the fastest pace since 2011,
adding to evidence the $2 trillion economy is stalling.  Retail sales  rose 3.6 percent from a year earlier in May
after a 4.1 percent increase in April, according to the median
estimate of 18 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Fixed-capital
investment (RUZ1CANY)  probably fell 1.2 percent, shrinking for a third
month, a second poll showed. The Federal Statistics Service is
scheduled to publish the data by June 24.  The outlook underscores the risk that the world’s biggest
energy exporter will struggle to overcome its steepest slowdown
since a contraction ended in 2009. Unemployment near a record
low has helped underpin household finances and confidence,
making Russia more dependent on domestic demand as a European
recession sapped demand for its exports of oil and gas.  “Corporate incomes are decreasing in real terms, cutting
funds that companies have for investment,”  Alexander Morozov ,
chief economist for Russia at  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  in Moscow, said
by phone yesterday.  The  Micex Index (MOSBIRZ)  fell for the first time in four days
yesterday, losing 0.9 percent to 1,323.57. Russia’s stocks have
the cheapest valuations among 21  emerging markets  tracked by
Bloomberg. The ruble weakened for a fourth month against the
dollar in May, the longest stretch of monthly declines in three
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Stimulus Debate  The government has remained split over policies to right
the course of the economy, with the  International Monetary Fund 
warning June 18 against the danger of stoking inflation with
fiscal stimulus. Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said last week
that a weaker ruble may be used to revive growth.  Gross domestic product grew 1.6 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier, missing the 5 percent medium-target
growth set by Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev . The IMF cut its
economic growth forecast for Russia, predicting GDP will expand
2.5 percent this year and 3.25 percent in 2014. The Economy
Ministry projects 2.4 percent growth this year and 3.7 percent
in 2014.  Policy makers kept their main rates unchanged June 10 for a
ninth month as consumer-price growth accelerated to 7.4 percent
in May, more than a percentage point above the central bank’s
target range of 5 percent to 6 percent for this year.  May numbers were also affected by the month having fewer
working days in May compared with a year ago said Vladimir Osakovskiy, chief economist for Russia at  Bank of America  Corp.
in Moscow and the most accurate forecaster of Russian retail
sales and investment.  Unemployment (RUUER)  fell to 5.4 percent in May from 5.6 percent in
April, according to the median estimate of 18 economists in a
Bloomberg survey. Real wages grew 3.9 percent from a year
earlier from 4.2 percent the previous month, another survey
showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  