-- Russia’s Oil Champion Shunned as Putin Weighs Share Sale
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2013-06-20T16:17:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/russia-s-oil-champion-shunned-as-putin-weighs-share-sale-energy.html
Russia’s global oil champion has yet
to win over investors.  OAO Rosneft (ROSN)  Chief Executive Officer  Igor Sechin  addressed
shareholders today for the first time since his $55 billion
acquisition of TNK-BP created the world’s largest publicly
traded crude producer. The shares are down 18 percent this year,
under-performing Moscow’s benchmark index as well as competitors
 OAO Lukoil (LKOH)  and OAO Surgutneftegas and wiping about $22 billion
from the value of the company.  The slump widened the valuation gap between Rosneft and the
global oil producers it wants to emulate and may stymie Russia’s
plans to sell a further 19 percent of the company. Concerns
range from  corporate governance  -- Rosneft’s refusal to buy out
minority shareholders in TNK-BP rankles some investors -- to
 capital spending  plans and rising debt.  “They have taken over the most productive, efficient set
of energy assets in Russia and many in the market fear Rosneft
are already starting to impact them negatively,” said Michael O’Flynn, managing director of UFG Asset Management, which has
$1.5 billion under management in Russia and doesn’t hold Rosneft
shares.  Sechin, a former deputy prime minister and a long-time ally
of President  Vladimir Putin , plans to show the company’s desire
for international standards of governance by electing ex- Morgan
Stanley (MS)  CEO  John Mack , former  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  vice president,
Donald Humphryes, and  BP Plc (BP/)  CEO Bob Dudley to the board this
week.  Extensive Experience  “All of them have extensive experience in the oil and
financial sector, which will undoubtedly increase the overall
level of corporate governance,” Sechin said during a call with
investors in April. The TNK-BP deal was completed in March.  Rosneft’s press service declined to comment beyond Sechin’s
public statements.  Rosneft, 70 percent owned by the Russian state, is holding
its shareholders meeting to coincide with the  St. Petersburg
Economic Forum , which will see Putin welcome global business
leaders and pitch for foreign investment.  Russia, seeking to raise money from the sale of state
assets, may put 19 percent of Rosneft up for sale as early as
this year, Economy Minister Andrei Belousov said in April.  State Goals  Still, the risk of investing in companies controlled by the
Russian government, where the goals of the state may be put
before shareholders, helps explain Rosneft’s discount to
international  oil companies , said Alexander Burgansky, an
analyst at Otkritie Financial Corp.  Rosneft shares trade at a price equal to 6.1 times
earnings. That compares to 11.5 times at  Exxon Mobil , 9.4 times
at  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and 8 times for  Royal Dutch Shell Plc. (RDSA)   Rosneft gained 1.2 rubles, or 0.6 percent, to 220.54 rubles
in Moscow trading today.  “Sentiment has been undermined by major corporate
governance concerns,” said Lev Snykov, a partner at Greenwich
Capital in Moscow. “Investors worry Rosneft might lose
efficiency as it gets bigger and will no longer be focused on
their interests.”  Rosneft had to borrow to finance the TNK-BP acquisition and
the company’s debt to equity ratio rose to 66 percent in the
first quarter from 26 percent at the end of 2012, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. While capital spending will only
rise by the rate of inflation this year to about 480 billion
rubles ($14.9 billion), the company has pledged to invest $18
billion upgrading oil refineries by 2018.  BP Stake  A revival in Rosneft’s share price is important for BP,
which took an 18.5 percent stake in the company as part of the
TNK-BP deal, making the London-based company the largest foreign
equity investor in Russia.  “Improving the total shareholder return via dividends and
price appreciation is a primary focus for BP in its relationship
with Rosneft,” Scott Sloan, president of BP Russia, said in an
interview in Moscow. “In order to support this, BP is willing
to work with Rosneft to assist in implementing the best
technology to fit its projects.”  Winning back investors won’t be easy after Rosneft annulled
a dividend for last year’s profit at TNK-BP’s traded unit,  TNK-BP Holding (TNBP) , according to  Eric Kraus , who manages about $200
million at Nikitsky Capital. Instead of paying a dividend,
Rosneft may borrow cash from TNK-BP Holding, bypassing the
minority owners who still own about 5 percent of the company.  ‘Rightful Dividend’  “Depriving the minority investors of their rightful
dividend is penny-wise but extremely pound-foolish,” said
Kraus, who doesn’t hold any Rosneft shares. “If this is how
they treat minorities when they are trying to drum up interest
in a privatization, how will they treat them once they have
their cash?”  Still, Rosneft’s production and reserves remain world-leading for a publicly traded company. Oil and gas output
equivalent to 4.7 million barrels a day and 33.9 billion barrels
of reserves both top Exxon. Rosneft also holds rights to acreage
on Russia’s Arctic shelf, one of the world’s largest unexplored
oil frontiers.  Rosneft is preparing a contract to sell China oil valued at
more than $60 billion, Putin said in  St. Petersburg  today.  Production from offshore Arctic fields could start as early
as 2018, Sechin said at today’s shareholder meeting.  The company expects $12 billion in cost savings by 2016
through combining pipelines, trading and transportation with
TNK-BP, Sechin said.  Share Performance  The market for Russian  crude oil  has weighed on Rosneft’s
share performance. Urals crude export prices have slid from a
high of $116.76 a barrel on Feb. 8 to as low as $95.28 on April
17. Rosneft’s shares traded at 220 rubles in Moscow today
implying a current valuation of about $71 billion.  Pressure on the commodities sector and the corporate
governance issue are bringing Rosneft shares down, said  Tim McCarthy , who helps manage $1 billion at Valartis Asset
Management in Geneva.  “Companies need to be more efficient when their key
product prices are falling,” McCarthy said. It will be key for
Rosneft to stop TNK-BP talent from leaving the company, he said.  About 90 percent of the managers at TNK-BP Management, or
1,600 people, have made the switch to Rosneft, according to a
statement on the company website. Even so, executives from TNK-BP in production, planning and procurement as well as the head
of TNK-BP’s largest production unit, Samotlor, have already been
replaced, according to a May press release. Those departures are
in addition to previous top management of TNK-BP, most of whom
left in March.  “I suppose these big names on the board will help improve
sentiment, but investors will want to see action,” McCarthy
said. “Stemming the outflow of good managers from the TNK-BP
team would be a start.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  