-- SandRidge CEO Tom Ward Fired as CFO Bennett Takes Over
-- B y   M i k e   L e e   a n d   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2013-06-20T20:18:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/sandridge-ceo-tom-ward-fired-as-cfo-bennett-takes-over.html
SandRidge Energy Inc. (SD)  Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer  Tom Ward  was fired from the energy
producer he founded and replaced by Chief Financial Officer
James Bennett, days before an activist shareholder was poised to
gain control of the board.  Ward departed after the board decided “new leadership is
in the best interests of the company and its shareholders,”
SandRidge said in a statement yesterday. Director Jeffrey Serota
was named interim chairman. Ward, 53, founded the Oklahoma City-based oil explorer in 2006 after leaving  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)   The company said a four-month independent review by Mayer
Brown LLP of related-party transactions between SandRidge and
Ward family entities found nothing that merited his termination
“with cause.” The independent review was part of a March
settlement with TPG-Axon Capital Management LP, which would’ve
gained a majority of board seats if he didn’t exit by June 30.  The elevation of Bennett without an external search for a
new CEO may suggest SandRidge plans to put itself up for sale,
said  Scott Hanold , an analyst at RBC Capital Markets LLC.
Bennett’s appointment represents “modest change,” Hanold said
in a telephone interview from  Minneapolis  yesterday.  Greg Dewey, a SandRidge spokesman, declined to comment
yesterday on whether the company is considering a sale.  Shareholder Campaigns  The termination of Ward is the latest in a series of
shareholder campaigns that have shaken up the U.S. oil and
natural gas industry in the past year. Chesapeake Energy’s
 Aubrey McClendon , who co-founded that company with Ward in 1989,
stepped down in April after shareholders criticized personal
loans he got using company wells as collateral.  Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY)  Chairman Ray Irani was forced
out in May after almost three decades at the company when
shareholders questioned his role in the decision to replace CEO
Stephen I. Chazen.  Hess Corp. (HES)  and  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  have also
agreed to board changes after shareholders questioned
management.  SandRidge fell 4.9 percent to $4.83 at the close in  New
York . The stock has lost 24 percent of its value this year.  SandRidge’s 7.5 percent bonds maturing in March 2021 fell
to 96.95 cents on the dollar to yield 8.035 percent, according
to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority.  New ‘Shovel’  SandRidge in May reported its third-biggest  quarterly net
loss  as it sold assets in  Texas . The company has sought to cut
spending and focus on the Mississippi Lime, an oil and natural
gas shale formation in Kansas and  Oklahoma .  Bennett, 44, has been CFO since January 2011 and was
promoted to president in March. Prior to joining SandRidge,
Bennett worked for White Deer Energy, a private-equity fund.  “The board unanimously concluded that an external search
was unnecessary and not in the best interests of the company,”
Serota said in the statement. “After evaluating James’
performance as president and his two-and-a-half years as our
CFO, we believe that with his extensive industry and financial
expertise, as well as his leadership qualities, he is the ideal
choice to lead SandRidge.”  TPG-Axon, SandRidge’s third-largest  shareholder , called for
Ward to be replaced because of questions surrounding the
related-party transactions and the company’s “disastrous”
performance. SandRidge added four TPG-Axon appointees to the
board as part of the March settlement to head off a proxy
contest. The agreement allowed TPG-Axon to add another board
member, giving it majority control, if Ward wasn’t fired by June
30.  ‘Strategic Blunders’  TPG-Axon, run by former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. executive
 Dinakar Singh , has said SandRidge suffered “strategic blunders,
extraordinary spending and poor governance” that caused the
stock to drop. SandRidge has fallen 81 percent since it began
selling for $26 a share in 2007.  SandRidge paid $9.5 million over four years to companies
controlled by Ward and his family as it leased land for oil and
gas drilling in Oklahoma, TPG-Axon said.  Because the termination was without cause, Ward will
receive a $53.3 million lump sum, vesting of 6.3 million shares
of previously issued restricted stock and his base salary for
the next 36 months, the company said.  Ward is the largest individual shareholder in SandRidge,
with a 4.76 percent stake as of April 1, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. In a May 8 interview, Ward said he’d
continue working at SandRidge “every day until I’m told not
to.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  