-- SEC Money-Fund Compromise Faces Opposition in Final Fight
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-06-19T16:30:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/sec-money-fund-compromise-faces-opposition-in-final-fight.html
The mutual-fund industry, in what
may be the last round of lobbying against tighter rules for
money-market funds, rejected a scaled-back proposal to force
only the riskiest funds to give up their stable $1 share price.  The compromise, unanimously approved by SEC commissioners
June 5, would harm investors and the economy, and would increase
systemic risk, the  Investment Company Institute  said today. The
group supported an alternative option offered by the SEC to
limit withdrawals when funds come under stress.  “Our opposition to floating NAV remains as firm as ever,”
Paul Schott Stevens, president of the Washington-based ICI, said
in the text of a speech he is scheduled to deliver today in
Baltimore. “Forcing funds to float their NAVs doesn’t address
the problem.”  The plan would exempt funds that buy only U.S. government-backed securities and retail funds, a concession regulators made
to address concerns of fund providers. The proposal marked the
beginning of what may be the last round in a five-year battle
over how to regulate the investment vehicle used by U.S.
companies and households to park $2.6 trillion in assets.  The debate over the vehicles was sparked by the collapse of
the $62.5 billion Reserve Primary Fund, whose closure in
September 2008 triggered a wider run on money funds, helping to
freeze global credit markets. Some regulators, including former
SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro , have argued that the funds’ $1 share
price makes them susceptible to runs. Her plan to make all money
funds adopt a floating value or create capital reserves was
blocked by fellow commissioners in August.  Lobbying Effort  Her failure followed a months-long lobbying effort from the
ICI and the fund industry to halt the plan, backed by the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce, the biggest business lobbying group.  The commission this month proposed a less sweeping
application of the floating NAV plan that would apply only to
institutional prime funds and institutional municipal funds,
which hold a combined $1 trillion, according to figures from
research firm iMoneyNet based on how providers categorize their
funds. Prime funds can invest in corporate debt. Municipal funds
invest in debt issued or backed by states and municipalities.  The narrowed proposal, backed by new SEC Chairman Mary Jo White, marked a victory for companies including Boston-based
Fidelity Investments, San Francisco-based Charles Schwab Corp.
and Vanguard Group Inc. in  Valley Forge ,  Pennsylvania , who had
retreated in the months leading up to the SEC’s June meeting
from an all-out opposition to a floating NAV in favor of a
compromise. None of those companies have commented on the June 5
proposal.  Withdrawal Restrictions  The commission’s proposal includes the option of allowing a
fund’s board to temporarily halt withdrawals and require it to
impose a fee of 2 percent on all redemptions if the fund’s
weekly liquid assets fell below 15 percent of total assets. The
commission left open the option of adopting either floating NAV
or withdrawal restrictions, or both together.  “Liquidity fees and gates precisely address the core
problem that regulators express greatest concern about: heavy
redemption pressure in periods of market turmoil,” Schott said
in his speech at a conference organized by research firm Crane
Data LLC.  The SEC’s proposals were  published  today in the Federal
Register, beginning a 90-day public comment period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  