-- Securing China Border to Help Builder Margins: Corporate India
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m   a n d   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 2013-06-20T06:52:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/securing-china-border-to-help-builder-margins-corporate-india.html
India is ramping up spending on
infrastructure to help secure states that border  Pakistan  and
 China , providing a boost to building companies that are
grappling with the worst economic slowdown in a decade.  The South Asian  country  will open a 19-kilometer (12-mile)
all-year rail link connecting the Himalayan territory of Kashmir
with the rest of the nation as early as next week. The $3.4
billion rail project includes an 11.2-kilometer tunnel, India’s
longest, built by Hindustan Construction Co. from Banihal in
Jammu to Qazigund in the Kashmir valley.  Territorial disputes with nuclear-armed neighbors are
prompting Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  to accelerate public
works in frontier provinces after China in 2007 opened a 1,956
kilometer rail line from Qinghai to  Tibet , north of India’s
Arunachal Pradesh state. Builders earn higher margins on
projects in many of these states to offset risks such as
insurgencies and tough terrain, said Amit Srivastava, a Mumbai-based analyst at Nirmal Bang Institutional Equities.  “These contracts are a big positive for builders in terms
of experience and also margins,” he said. “Margins are usually
higher and the experience helps companies bid for bigger
projects.”  Such contracts typically yield as much as 200 basis points,
or 2 percentage point, higher margin, he said.  Almost Halved  Earnings before interest, depreciation and amortization as
a percentage of sales, or  Ebidta margin , at  Hindustan
Construction (HCC)  almost halved to 10 percent in the year ended March
31 from four years ago as India’s $1.8 trillion economy expanded
5 percent, the least since 2003.  The gauge for  Punj Lloyd (PUNJ)  Ltd., India’s second-largest
infrastructure construction company,  averaged  6 percent in the
five years through March 31, compared with 12 percent in the
previous period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Hindustan Construction shares have slumped 45 percent in
the past year, compared with a 12 percent advance in the
benchmark S&P BSE Sensex index. Punj Lloyd has declined 21
percent in the same period.  “The future looks bright and promising” for builders
given the government’s focus on investing huge amounts of funds
in the road and rail sectors,  Punj Lloyd  said in an e-mailed
response to a query.  Ethnic Strife  Punj Lloyd is currently implementing six road projects in
the northeastern state of Assam, including the only link between
the seven northeastern states and the rest of the nation. The
company is also building an airport in Sikkim state in the
region.  The federal government has earmarked 400 billion rupees
($6.7 billion) for a plan to build 7,090 kilometers of roads in
the northeast, according to the Ministry of Development of North
Eastern Region’s  website .  This area, comprising Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur,
Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Sikkim and Tripura, is India’s
remotest and least developed. Recurring ethnic and religious
strife after the country became independent from British
colonial rule 66 years ago have killed at least 5,261 people
since 2005, according to the South Asian Terrorism Portal.  “ India  has neglected development projects in its border
states for a variety of reasons,” said Deba Ranjan Mohanty,
chairman of Indicia Research & Advisory, a New Delhi-based
defense research organization. “Projects like the Kashmir rail
link will give people, thus far shut out, opportunities for
development.”  Territorial Wars  The  rail link to Kashmir  may also boost tourism in the
state where half the population between 18 and 30 years of age
is out of work. An anti-Indian insurgency that began in 1989 has
killed 50,000 people over more than two decades in the territory
claimed by both India and Pakistan.  India fought one war in China in 1962, while Kashmir was
the focus of two of its three wars with Pakistan. India accuses
China of occupying 38,000 square kilometers of its land in  Jammu
and Kashmir , while the government in Beijing says 90,000 square
kilometers in Arunachal Pradesh belongs to China.  Hindustan Construction took seven years to build the
Kashmir tunnel that cuts through the Pir Panjal range in the
Himalayas. Chairman Ajit Gulabchand of the Mumbai-based builder
declined to comment on the rail link.  National Importance  The Kashmir railroad is considered a project of national
importance and funds are directly released from the nation’s
federal Ministry of Finance, according to a government
statement. The country has earmarked as much as 195 billion
rupees for the 311-kilometer Kashmir link that will go as far as
Baramulla, located about 174 kilometers from Muzaffarabad, the
capital of the territory controlled by Pakistan.  The projects in the border areas are sensitive and have
political backing, giving confidence to builders about the
government’s commitment to the contracts, said Rahul Kumar,
chief financial officer at New Delhi-based  Jaiprakash Associates
Ltd. (JPA) , which is executing contracts in Kashmir and  Himachal
Pradesh .  “There are additional costs involved in these projects
that need to be recovered and returns need to be secured,”
Kumar said. “Profitability is greater than in others.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net ;
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at   anandk@bloomberg.net ;
Hari Govind at   hgovind@bloomberg.net  