-- Sept. 11 Judge Weighs Letting Accused Hear Torture Issues
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2013-06-20T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/sept-11-judge-weighs-letting-accused-hear-torture-issues.html
Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and four
others accused of masterminding the terror attacks on the World
Trade Center and the Pentagon should be excluded from pre-trial
hearings when classified information is disclosed, a prosecutor
told the judge in the case in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.  On the third day of hearings this week before the military
tribunal, a government lawyer yesterday urged the judge, U.S.
Army Colonel James Pohl, to bar the five men from pre-trial
proceedings whenever classified material is discussed. That
spurred a heated response from defense lawyers.  “Mr. Mohammed has the right to be present when we’re
talking about matters that deal with his torture,” his lawyer,
David Nevin, told Pohl.  The five defendants are accused of organizing the 2001
hijacking of passenger airplanes that killed almost 3,000 people
when they were crashed into the World Trade Center in  Manhattan ,
the Pentagon in  Virginia , and in  Pennsylvania .  The five, who have been held by the U.S. for about a
decade, may face the death penalty if convicted. They are
charged with conspiring to finance, train and direct the 19
hijackers who seized the four planes, as well as terrorism,
hijacking aircraft, conspiracy, murder in violation of the laws
of war and attacking civilians.  A military trial is at least a year away.  Defendants Appear  Unlike on June 18, Mohammed and his four co-defendants
appeared in court yesterday. They sat quietly and didn’t
interrupt the proceedings. Resting his head on his hand,
Mohammed occasionally leafed through documents, whispered to his
lawyer or translator and glanced around the courtroom.  In asking to exclude the accused plotters from hearings
where confidential issues are discussed, Joanna Baltes, a
prosecutor, said the government is “not suggesting” that they
be excluded from the trial whenever such evidence is presented.
Rather, she said, the government wants “protections” for
classified information at the pre-trial stage.  There are “times when exclusion of the accused is
appropriate to protect classified information,” she said.  Defense lawyers objected. James Connell, the lawyer for
Ammar al Baluchi, who is Mohammed’s nephew, said his client had
“a right to presence” at “all proceedings.”  RDI Program  Lawyer Cheryl Bormann, whose client, Walid bin Attash, is
charged with helping to train the Sept. 11 attackers, said the
classified material overwhelmingly concerns “the RDI program,”
shorthand for “rendition, detention and interrogation.” The
U.S. Central Intelligence Agency has said Mohammed was subjected
to the interrogation technique known as waterboarding, which
defense lawyers describe as torture.  “You lose legitimacy when the accused, whose life is on
the line, is excluded,” Bormann told the judge, who didn’t
rule. “He has a right to be present.”  The argument came after a technical glitch interrupted the
questioning of a U.S. Navy admiral, who was testifying through a
remote videoconferencing link. Defense lawyers were asking Rear
Admiral David Woods, who was commander of the Guantanamo Bay
prison until June 2012, about orders he issued that allegedly
permitted the seizure of attorney-client communications.  The hearings, which began last year, have been marred by
more severe technical issues. Last summer, the judge canceled a
day of legal argument because an Internet failure interfered
with lawyers’ preparations for legal arguments. An approaching
hurricane led to cancellation of other hearing days.  Video Link  In April, five days of hearings were postponed after
defense lawyers said their internal documents went missing on
government computers.  The video link was restored after lunch. Woods said his
duty was to ensure that the camp was safe and secure and that
classified information remained protected. Defense lawyers asked
whether he had barred them from showing their clients certain
legal documents, books and writings on “historical jihad
perspectives” because he deemed them to be “contraband.”  A broadcast of the testimony was viewed by reporters at
Fort Meade,  Maryland , near  Washington .  The case is U.S. v. Mohammed, Military Commissions Trial
(Guantanamo Bay, Cuba).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in  New York  at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  