-- Serbia Seeks Cost Cuts, Asset Sales to Keep Gap at 4.7% of GDP
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-06-19T12:30:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/serbia-seeks-cost-cuts-asset-sales-to-keep-gap-at-4-7-of-gdp.html
Serbia  will reduce administrative
costs and sell money-losing companies, leaving thousands without
work, to avoid cuts in public wages and pensions as it works to
trim the budget gap and prevent a public debt crisis.  The government will raise the 2013 budget’s deficit target
to 177 billion dinars ($2.1 billion), or 4.7 percent of gross
domestic product, from a previously planned 122 billion dinars,
Finance Minister  Mladjan Dinkic  said in Belgrade today. The
revenue target was trimmed 9.8 percent to 849.3 billion dinars
and spending will fall 3.5 percent to 1 trillion dinars.  “Our plan aims for drastic savings in the public sector
while seriously encouraging investment in the private sector”
as revenue has been affected by declining private consumption,
weak financial discipline and an expanded shadow economy, Dinkic
said. Public wages and pensions will rise 0.5 percent this year
and 1 percent next, he said.  The  International Monetary Fund  has warned the deficit may
top 8 percent, more than double the target, if no measures were
taken. The Fiscal Council, appointed by parliament to oversee
fiscal compliance, said a debt crisis is looming without urgent
savings and  Standard & Poor’s  said there is a risk of credit-rating downgrade in the event of significant fiscal
deterioration.  The government will submit the draft revised budget to
lawmakers by July 1 and the document will include a
“drastically changed” financing plan, Dinkic said. Serbia
needs a maximum $500 million in additional budget financing by
March next year and “we’ll see” if international debt will be
offered, he said.  Seeking Support  Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic ’s 11-month old Cabinet needs
support from trade unions and Serbian economists to overhaul the
public sector, including 179 companies with 54,000 workers that
have been subject to restructuring programs for 12 years and
cost the state 750 million euros ($1 billion) in a single year,
he said. Almost 90 firms with about 13,000 workers will be
closed this year if no buyer can be found, Dinkic said.  The government will refrain from issuing sovereign
guarantees to public companies for any new debt because it has
to pay 3 billion dinars in activated guarantees after Srbijagas
JP gas monopoly failed to service its debts.  It will also call tenders to sell stakes in the Resavica
coal mines, JAT Airways AD, drugmaker Galenika AD Zemun and
insurer Dunav Osiguranje.  The coalition has identified Russian and Gulf region
investors interested in a 20-30 year lease for Belgrade airport
 Nikola Tesla , with the entire rent collected upfront. No
agreement has been reached on the sale of Telekom Srbija AD, the
nation’s dominant landline provider, Dinkic said.  At least 125 million euros and as much as 250 million may
be raised from a tender on the country’s first 4G license,
Dinkic said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  