-- Sibanye Gold Plans to Cut 305 Million Rand of Extra Costs
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y   a n d   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-06-19T13:07:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/sibanye-gold-plans-to-cut-305-million-rand-of-extra-costs.html
Sibanye Gold Ltd. (SGL) , which mines all
of its metal in  South Africa , said it will trim 305 million rand
($31 million) of annual costs in addition to plans set out
before its spinoff from  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI)  in February.  The gold producer will make the savings from job cuts,
reducing overtime and lowering power usage, the Westonaria-based
company said in a presentation published on its  website  today.
The savings are in addition to 499 million rand of cost
reductions already in its 2013 plans, it said.  The company will tackle the “inappropriate organizational
structures” and “low operational effectiveness” that it
inherited from Gold Fields, Sibanye said in the presentation.  Sibanye was spun off from Gold Fields in February and
comprises the Kloof-Driefontein complex,  Africa ’s largest gold
operation, and the Beatrix mines. With its more mature mines,
Sibanye will focus on increasing cash flow to pay dividends
while Gold Fields is developing operations outside South Africa
with longer life expectancies.  The company is attempting to reduce jobs amid rising trade-union tensions and a decline in the gold price. Labor
organizations have demanded above-inflation wage gains before
wage talks due to start next month, while gold has dropped 18
percent this year, reaching $1,373.32 an ounce by 1:12 p.m. in
London.  Sibanye’s cost-saving plans follow an announcement last
month that it will cut 1,110 jobs at its Beatrix West mine in an
attempt to return the operation to profit.  Sibanye needs a “new operating philosophy and model” and
has inherited a “bloated service function” from Gold Fields,
it said.  Gold Fields spokesman Sven Lunsche declined to comment on
the Sibanye presentation.  Sibanye Chief Financial Officer Charl Keyter and Corporate
Affairs Director James Wellsted will give the presentation to
investors at a Deutsche Bank AG conference in  London  today.  The stock has dropped 40 percent to 8.84 rand since it
started trading on Feb. 12. Gold Fields has fallen 38 percent to
57.90 rand since then.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  