-- SocGen Plans to Capture Russian Growth as Improvement Holds
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2013-06-19T20:31:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/socgen-sees-improvement-in-russian-business-persisting-this-year.html
Societe Generale SA (GLE)  forecasts an
improvement in  Russia  will continue this year as  France ’s
second-largest bank seeks to move beyond the arrest of the
former head of a local unit in a bribery sting.  “Yes, we are here to capture growth,” Didier Hauguel, the
French lender’s chief country officer, told reporters in Moscow.
“We’re mindful to grow our business in a balanced way.”  Societe Generale , Italy’s  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and Vienna-based
 Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  are among Western banks keeping
a retail presence in Russia after rivals such as  Barclays Plc (BARC) 
and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  abandoned theirs. The French bank, which
owns Moscow-based  OAO Rosbank (ROSB) , made a profit of 39 million euros
($52 million) from Russia in the first quarter, or 4.6 percent
of its recurring profit, compared with 3 million euros a year
earlier.  Societe Generale aims to achieve more 15 percent return on
equity, a key measure of profitability, by 2015, the bank said
in an e-mailed statement today. That compares with 12 percent in
the first quarter of the year.  The target trails the return-on-equity posted by state-run
 OAO Sberbank (SBER) , Russia’s biggest lender, which controls just under
50 percent of all deposits. Sberbank’s ROE was 21.3 percent in
the first quarter, down from 27.9 percent a year ago. VTB Group,
the country’s second-largest bank, posted ROE of 15 percent.  Lagging Behind  Foreign-controlled banks were overrepresented among
Russia’s loss-making lenders last year, according to the
country’s industry regulator.  Of the 48 banks that ended last year with losses, 13 -- or
more than a quarter -- are majority-owned by foreigners, Russian
central bank Deputy Chairman Mikhail Sukhov told reporters in
January. More than 100 of Russia’s 896 banks are controlled by
foreign capital, he said.  Societe Generale serves about 5 million clients in Russia
with 23,000 staff at units including Rosbank, car-lending
division Rusfinance and mortgage lender DeltaCredit.  Rosbank is cutting 800 jobs this year, Societe Generale’s
Chief Executive Officer  Frederic Oudea  told reporters today.
Rosbank’s job cuts, mostly at back-office functions at the
Moscow headquarters this year, will bring staff reductions to
about 3,000 between 2012 and 2013.  Societe Generale, based in Paris, aims to attain 900
million euros of cost savings globally by 2015, with half the
effort coming from its consumer-banking businesses, the Paris-based lender said May 7, without giving more details on Russian
cost cuts.  CEO Fired  The French bank scrambled last month to replace the
division CEO of Rosbank Vladimir Golubkov, who was arrested for
soliciting $1.5 million in a bribery sting operation. First
Deputy CEO Igor Antonov was appointed head of the Moscow-based
unit.  Golubkov, who has denied any wrongdoing, is under house
arrest and faces up to seven years in jail. Golubkov is one of
the most senior Russian bankers held for bribery, according to
the  Interior Ministry . When his office was raided on May 15,
Golubkov was found with 5 million rubles ($159,000) of the $1.5
million he demanded from a company to prolong a loan and reduce
its cost, police said.  Indirect Risks  Societe Generale “didn’t identify any direct risks” from
a financial point of view from Golubkov’s case, Deputy CEO
Bernardo Sanchez Incera told shareholders at an annual meeting
last month. It is is monitoring indirect risks from the case, he
said.  “We are totally committed and have taken all the remedy
actions,” Oudea said today.  Societe Generale raised its stake in Rosbank to about 82
percent after agreeing in 2010 with billionaire  Vladimir Potanin ’s Interros Holding to merge its local operations into
Rosbank. Potanin remains a shareholder. Rosbank runs more than
600 branches in Russian cities and towns from Moscow to
Vladivostok.  Societe Generale merged Rosbank with its other Russian
branch network BSGV in 2011, while mortgage lender DeltaCredit
and consumer lender Rusfinance both became Rosbank’s fully owned
subsidiaries at the start of that year. Societe Generale owns an
82.4 percent stake in Rosbank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  