-- SocGen’s Haigh Sees Gold Lower After Calling Rout
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-06-20T15:26:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/socgen-s-haigh-sees-gold-lower-after-calling-rout-commodities.html
(Corrects spelling of algorithm in second paragraph.)  Societe Generale SA’s  Michael Haigh 
correctly predicted this year’s rout in gold by using a math
problem to measure a feeling. His arithmetic says there’s worse
to come.  Haigh’s algorithm, called the Principal Component Analysis
model, uses 27 indicators ranging from the value of the Indian
rupee to the yield on 10-year German bunds to determine what
percentage of a commodity’s price movement is influenced by
supply and demand, and how much is related to macroeconomic
concerns, liquidity and fluctuations in the dollar.  Three months ago his formula showed investors were becoming
more bullish on economic growth while gold’s outlook was
bearish. On April 2, Haigh and the 10 analysts he leads issued a
report laying out the case for a crash. Bullion tumbled into a
 bear market  10 days later, with its biggest two-day retreat in
more than 30 years.  Societe Generale  predicts a fourth-quarter
average of $1,200 an ounce, or 7.3 percent less than now.  “The investors in gold are treating it differently than
they were before by ignoring these bigger outside factors,”
said Haigh, 43, the bank’s global head of commodities research
in New York. “They are basically putting to the sidelines the
macro outlook and sentiment outlook, and just dumping gold.
Investors are just getting out.”  Assets in exchange-traded products backed by gold slumped
by 174 metric tons in April, valued at $8.3 billion at the time
and the biggest drop on record. Holdings are now at a two-year
low as sales extend into a sixth month, the longest losing
streak in data compiled by Bloomberg and a sign of how some
investors have lost faith in bullion as a store of wealth.  Prices Tumble  Gold tumbled today to the lowest since September 2010 after
U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said asset
purchases may be reduced later this year. The price is down 23
percent this year to $1,293.84, on track for its first annual
loss since 2000. Bullion’s 12-year run of gains was the longest
since at least 1920, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
peaked at $1,921.15 in September 2011, still less than prices
reached in 1980 when adjusted for inflation. Its 1980 record of
$850 is equal to $2,409 today, data compiled by the Federal
Reserve Bank of Minneapolis show.  U.S. inflation is below the Fed’s target of 2 percent,
reducing demand for gold as a hedge, while buyers sold haven
assets including precious metals in favor of equities. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index reached a record last month and more
than $3.4 trillion was added to the value of global stocks since
the start of the year. Global bond markets posted their biggest
monthly loss in nine years in May.  Predicting Turmoil  Haigh is not alone.  Nouriel Roubini , professor of economics
and international business at  New York University  and known as
Dr. Doom for predicting turmoil before the global financial
crisis began in 2008, says gold may drop to $1,000 by 2015.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s  Jeffrey Currie , the New York-based
analyst who also predicted bullion’s plunge, has said it may
fall below $1,200 temporarily. Societe Generale’s Haigh expects
prices to average $1,150 in 2014.  In August, when heightened concerns over the 17-nation euro
region’s debt crisis made the economic outlook more uncertain,
macroeconomic issues, liquidity and the dollar contributed to
about 50 percent of the moves in gold, Haigh said. Supply and
demand, including hedge fund flows, central bank buying and coin
sales, accounted for the rest, according to Haigh’s algorithm.  On April 2, the day Societe Generale put out its report on
gold, the influence of macroeconomic issues, liquidity and the
dollar was down to 24 percent, said Haigh, who leads analysts in
London, Paris and  Singapore .  Interest Rates  “Around the start of the year, the variables that were
important for gold like the dollar and  interest rates  started to
become much, much less important, to the point that they became
largely insignificant by around March,” said Haigh, who
considers the April call on gold the best of his career. “The
fundamentals like central-bank buying and hedge-fund flows
really started to change shape around the same time.”  The metal surged 70 percent as the  Federal Reserve  bought
$2.3 trillion of debt from December 2008 through June 2011,
flooding the financial system with cash. Gold tumbled this year
amid speculation that improving growth would spur the Fed to
taper stimulus. The S&P GSCI gauge of 24 commodities dropped 4.2
percent this year, on track to outperform gold for the first
time since 2009. The MSCI All-Country World Index of equities
rose 4.6 percent while a Bank of America Corp. index shows
Treasuries lost 1.9 percent.  Hedge funds  and other large speculators held a record
number of short contracts, or bets on lower prices, by May 21,
making them the least bullish on gold in more than five years,
according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission  data .  Short Gold  The slump in prices spurred demand worldwide for jewelry
and coins and the  U.S. Mint  said June 5 that its sales may be a
record this year. That drove a rebound to as high as $1,488.10
on May 3 before the retreat resumed. Investors should short gold
if it rallies to $1,400 again, Societe Generale said June 5.  Haigh grew up in Aldwick, a southern English seaside town
of about 11,000 people. He earned a doctorate in economics from
 North Carolina State University  in 1998 and went on to teach at
the  University of Maryland  and New York University and was an
associate chief economist at the CFTC.  He worked at Societe Generale from 2007 to 2009 before
stints at fund-of-hedge-fund manager K2 Advisors LLC in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , and Standard Chartered Bank in Singapore.
He has focused increasingly on cross-asset analysis since he
returned to the bank in 2011.  Walter Lukken, a former CFTC commissioner who worked with
Haigh, remembers him for both his academic approach and his
stylish demeanor.  Elvis Costello  “At the time he had these black horn-rimmed glasses and
looked like  Elvis Costello ,” said Lukken, president and chief
executive officer of the Futures Industry Association in
Washington. “He definitely stood out among the group of
economists at the CFTC, not only for his looks, but he was just
a smart, outgoing person and an enjoyable guy to be around.”  In addition to the Principle Component Analysis model, the
bank has developed an investible Sentiment Indicator that
weights commodities in a basket according to investors’ appetite
for risk. Since 2008, that indicator has outperformed the Dow
Jones-UBS Commodity Index by more than 40 percent, he said.  Societe Generale’s strategy has brought recognition, with
Risk Magazine in February naming it as the year’s best
commodities research bank.  Gold first topped $1,000 in 2008 amid the financial crisis
that saw the collapse of Bear Stearns Cos. and Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc., the largest bankruptcy in U.S. history. Commodity
prices were driven more by macroeconomics than fundamentals at
the time and now that’s changing, Haigh said.  Natural Gas  His algorithms aren’t as effective across all commodities.
Agricultural products and  natural gas  have always tended to
follow crop cycles and weather conditions, he said.  Nor have all his predictions been as prescient as with
gold. A recommendation he made in August 2008 to buy natural gas
on the assumption that its discount to coal would increase
demand from utilities was among the worst in his career. Prices
tumbled 25 percent that year and slid to a seven-year low in
2009 amid increasing supplies from shale reserves in the U.S.  “These markets are dynamic,” said Haigh, who lives in New
York with his wife and one-year-old son, and who still supports
West Bromwich Albion, the English soccer club he’s followed
since childhood. “In the case of natural gas, it went through a
transformation because of its technology, whereas today the
markets have gone through a transformation because what
influences them is changing.”  “If you ignore either one of those, it hurts,” he said.
“You have to continually evolve what you look at.”  Economic Outlook  Demand for gold as a haven tends to increase during periods
of uncertainty, while investors take on assets perceived as
riskier when the economy improves. The Fed may cut back on its
quantitative easing program, reducing expectations for
inflation, Haigh said. The central bank is adding funds to the
financial system buying $85 billion of Treasury and mortgage
debt a month. Policy makers will trim that to $65 billion in
October, the median of 59 economist estimates compiled by
Bloomberg this month shows.  The  U.S. economy  expanded at an annualized rate of 2.4
percent in the first quarter, and that will accelerate to 2.8 in
the first three months of 2014, the median of 70 economist
estimates compiled by Bloomberg show. The  World Bank  raised its
2013 U.S. growth forecast to 2 percent on June 12, from a
January prediction of 1.9 percent.  Even as commodity analysts’ focus shifts back to supply and
demand, macroeconomics won’t disappear as a source for
predicting price movements, Haigh said.  “We’re in an environment where fundamentals are returning
to commodity markets in terms of explaining their price
movements,” Haigh said. “But it’s an environment where we will
never be independent again from the broader macro picture.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  