-- Sony Mulls Loeb Plan as Hirai Says Entertainment Crucial
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   G r a c e   H u a n g
-- 2013-06-20T07:37:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/sony-rides-win-streak-on-loeb-proposal-ps4-into-meeting.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  Chief Executive Officer
Kazuo Hirai said movies and music are crucial to the company’s
revival as he spoke to investors three days after billionaire
Daniel Loeb strengthened his push to spin off the businesses.  The board will use outside information to “thoroughly
discuss” the proposal from Loeb’s Third Point LLC to sell as
much as 20 percent of the entertainment assets, Hirai said at
the annual shareholder meeting today. The stock is up 7.3
percent since Loeb announced his plan last month, which he
bolstered on June 17 by increasing his Sony stake.  Hirai is riding a winning streak, with the shares more than
doubling this year, orders for PlayStation 4 video-game consoles
higher than early estimates and Xperia smartphone shipments in
Japan reaching a three-year high. Sony Pictures Entertainment
this week announced dates for the third and fourth installments
of the “Amazing Spider-Man” franchise.  “My mission this year is to turn to a more aggressive
approach with bolder measures,” Hirai told investors in Tokyo.
“We expect our smartphone operation will improve earnings,
making the TV unit profitable is a goal that must be met, we
will accelerate expansion in  emerging markets  and new
businesses.”  Even before the board elected today considers Loeb’s
proposal for an entertainment IPO, investors seem to agree those
assets are undervalued. Sony, the  third-best  performer in the
 Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average, has risen more than double its closest
domestic peer  Panasonic Corp. (6752)   Board Deliberation  “The share price has risen so, in some sense, the market
has woken up to the fact that these assets are indeed more
valuable than people had imagined,” said Damian Thong, an
analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in Tokyo. “The whole point of
the carve-out proposal was to expose the value of these
assets.”  Sony fell 0.1 percent to close at 2,013 yen in  Tokyo  today.  Loeb is pushing for talks with Sony directors and
investment bankers advising the company on his proposal after
the board agreed to consider it. Third Point funds now own 70
million shares, up from 64 million in May, and it is interested
in serving on Sony’s board, Loeb said in a June 17 letter to
Hirai. That’s about 6.9 percent of outstanding shares.  The Japanese electronics maker is working with Morgan
Stanley and Citigroup Inc. to evaluate Loeb’s proposal, people
familiar with the matter said last month.  New Board  Shareholders approved 13 directors today, including three
new members. Loeb wasn’t nominated to the board.  Eikoh Harada, who spent seven years as head of Apple in
Japan, and Tim Schaaff, who worked for the iPad maker until
2005, joined the board, while former CEO Howard Stringer and
three others left. The third new director was Joichi Ito, a
director of the Media Lab at Massachusetts Institute of
Technology and also the  New York  Times Co.  “The company should sincerely accept Third Point’s opinion
and do as they say,” Mitsuharu Matsumoto, a 61-year-old
individual investor, said after the meeting. “The company needs
to introduce an idea of spinoff” in order to boost profit, he
said.  Sony said 10,693 shareholders attended the meeting in
Tokyo.  Television Losses  “This is a significant proposal that addresses an
important business of Sony, the entertainment business,” Hirai
said today. “We shouldn’t come to a conclusion in haste for the
sake of coming to a conclusion.”  Shareholders who maintained 1 percent or more in voting
rights for six months can propose an agenda with a notice eight
weeks prior to an annual meeting, according to Nomura Holdings
Inc.  Elissa Doyle, a spokeswoman for Third Point, declined to
comment before the meeting.  Third Point exited its position in Morgan Stanley within
three months of saying the shares of the investment bank may
double. The hedge fund, which owned 7.74 million shares of the
investment bank valued at $148.2 million at the end of 2012,
didn’t list any holding of the firm in a quarterly filing
disclosed in May. Morgan Stanley gained 15 percent in the
quarter.  “He’s trying to unlock value,” said Amir Anvarzadeh, a
Singapore-based manager of Japanese equity sales at  BGC Partners
Inc. (BGCP)  “He doesn’t want to manage a business.”  Profit Forecast  An initial public offering of the entertainment operations
would help the maker of Bravia TVs and Cyber-shot cameras focus
on its unprofitable electronics businesses, Loeb said in the May
14 letter.  Sony’s main TV business has  lost  762 billion yen ($8
billion) during nine straight annual losses. Without the
contribution of profitable entertainment units and an insurance
arm, Sony would have booked 130 billion yen in losses in the
year ended March 31. The company plans to turn around the
electronics segment and has forecast a profit for the business
of 100 billion yen this fiscal year, Chief Financial Officer
Masaru Kato said last month.  Sony last month forecast a 16 percent increase in profit
for the year started April 1 after posting its first net income
in four years helped by job cuts, asset sales, a weaker yen and
blockbuster movies including “Skyfall.” The film unit was the
second-biggest contributor to earnings last fiscal year after
the life-insurance division.  “The company officially said its board will assess the
proposal and that’s also positive for the stock, regardless of
what the company will actually do about it,” said Keita Wakabayashi, an analyst at Mito Securities Co. in Tokyo.  ‘Competitive Edge’  Sony is regaining its “competitive edge” with the new PS4
game console and Xperia smartphones, Loeb said in Third Point’s
June 17 letter to Hirai.  Sony’s share of  Japan ’s smartphone market rose to a three-year high this month, widening its lead over Apple Inc., as new
Xperia models and a discount program from the nation’s largest
wireless carrier helped stoke sales.  The company also unveiled its new PS4 this month, with
orders for the new console running ahead of internal
projections, Andrew House, president and group chief executive
officer of Sony Computer Entertainment, said last week in an
interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Grace Huang in Tokyo at 
 xhuang66@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  