-- South African Air’s New CEO Plans Review of Alliance Ties
-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r
-- 2013-06-19T12:23:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/south-african-air-s-new-ceo-plans-review-of-alliance-ties.html
South African Airways , the region’s
biggest carrier, will explore closer ties with local operators
while reviewing the benefits of its Star Alliance membership,
Chief Executive Officer Monwabisi Kalawe said.  Kalawe, who took the post June 1, said he has received
messages from Ethiopian Airlines Enterprise and Kenya Airways,
sub-Saharan Africa’s second- and third-largest carriers,
indicating they’re keen to explore “win-win relationships.” He
also plans to talk with Star CEO Mark Schwab in the coming
months to establish what unprofitable SAA gains from the group.  A restructuring plan for state-owned SAA that seeks to cut
costs, refresh the fleet and focus on money-making routes is
poised to go before South Africa’s Cabinet, Kalawe said in an
interview. He said he was targeting July or early August to
reveal details to stakeholders, including tourist groups
concerned that service to  Cape Town  may be curbed.  “I’m not able to discuss its contents but it’s a pragmatic
and well-considered document which I fully support,” he said at
the  Paris Air Show . “SAA, in my view, is not in crisis. It’s an
organization in distress, but it’s got pockets of excellence.”  Kalawe said he’s aware of the “aggressive” challenge posed
to African airlines by Gulf carriers such as Emirates that are
increasingly targeting the region. At the same time, there may
be possibilities for cooperation, he said. SAA recently signed a
deal to share booking codes with Abu Dhabi-based Etihad Airways.  Balance Sheet  SAA had a loss of 1.36 billion rand ($137 million) in the
year through March 2012 and has faced management upheaval, as
well as calls by the nation’s opposition party for a selloff.  Kalawe said he’s buoyed by a public pledge from the
government to bolster the Johannesburg-based company’s balance
sheet, as well as the endorsement of longer-term planning
implied by the 20-year span of the restructuring strategy.  “That’s the kind of timescale I’m used to in the
infrastructure sector,” said Kalawe, who ran South  Africa ’s
secondary airports before becoming general manager of the Cape
Town hub. He said he also ran Denel Munitions, helping to broker
a 51 percent investment by German arms maker Rheinmetall AG.  The CEO said it’s too early to say how SAA’s leadership
structure will be modified following his appointment, or what
role will be played by Deputy CEO Nico Bezuidenhout, who has
been acting CEO.  ‘Reignite Pride’  The airline plans to order 25 to 35 wide-body jets by the
end of August as it seeks to renew an aging fleet, Bezuidenhout
said June 3, with the  Boeing Co. (BA)  787 and Airbus SAS’s A350 under
consideration. New planes are required starting in 2017.  Malusi Gigaba,  South Africa ’s Minister of Public
Enterprises, said this month that the chief requirement is to
turn around SAA’s finances and that a sale isn’t under
consideration.  Kalawe said that SAA has lacked direction and that his
chief aim is to deliver stability and to “reignite pride” in
the brand.  “I’m positive about the fundamentals,” he said. “Africa
has seven of the fastest-growing economies in the world, and a
lot of South African multinationals are also expanding into the
rest of Africa. So there’s a positive story in terms of both
passenger flows and belly freight.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Jasper in Paris via 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  