-- South Africa Current-Account Deficit Narrows on Rand
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2013-06-19T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/south-africa-current-account-deficit-narrows-on-rand.html
South Africa ’s  current-account 
deficit unexpectedly shrank to 5.8 percent of gross domestic
product in the first quarter as the weaker rand helped boost
revenue for exporters.  The gap on the current account, the widest measure of trade
in goods and services, narrowed to 191 billion rand ($19.1
billion), the  Reserve Bank  said in its Quarterly Bulletin,
released in  Pretoria  today. The  median  estimate of 15 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg was for the deficit to widen to 6.9
percent of GDP from 6.5 percent in the final quarter of 2012.  “The export earnings of South African producers continued
to benefit from the lower exchange value of the rand, which
extended into the first quarter,” the central bank said.
“South Africa’s terms of trade improved somewhat in the first
quarter of 2013 as export commodity prices held up well relative
to the prices of imported goods and services.”  The rand’s decline this year boosted export revenue as the
economy struggles to rebound from strikes last year that shaved
about 0.5 percentage point off the economy, while inflation saps
consumer demand. Slowing growth is making it harder for Finance
Minister  Pravin Gordhan  to rein in the fiscal deficit, a concern
raised by Moody’s Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings when downgrading South Africa starting in September.  The rand weakened 0.3 percent to 10.0240 per dollar at 8:45
a.m. in Johannesburg, extending its decline this year to 15
percent.  Economic Growth  The economy  expanded  at an annualized 0.9 percent in the
first quarter, the slowest pace since the 2009 recession, and
less than the 7 percent rate the government says it needs
annually through 2020 to cut the jobless rate to 14 percent from
25 percent. The Reserve Bank held the benchmark repurchase  rate 
at 5 percent last month as inflation limited the room it has to
move rates.  South Africa relies mainly on foreign  investment  in stocks
and bonds to fund the deficit, inflows that have fluctuated this
year as investors’ risk perceptions increased.  The current-account deficit was adequately financed by
foreign inflows last quarter as foreign direct investment
rebounded. Investment in  stocks  and bonds by non-residents
slowed to 1.4 billion rand, compared with 12.5 billion rand in
the final three months of the year, the central bank said. South
Africa recorded 12.9 billion rand in foreign direct investment
compared with an outflow of 1.4 billion rand in the previous
three months.  “The deficit on the current account was fully financed by
a further sizable inflow of foreign capital in the first
quarter,” the bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  