-- Spanish Banks Risk Loan-Book Losses as Economy Shrinks, IMF Says
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2013-06-19T09:32:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/spanish-banks-risk-loan-book-losses-as-economy-shrinks-imf-says.html
The  International Monetary Fund  said
Spain’s recession is putting the country’s lenders at risk of a
further deterioration on their loans.  “The macro downsides could trigger a negative feedback
loop between credit and the economy, with deteriorating loan
books and pressure on profits,” the IMF said in a report today.
Banks should continue to “reinforce the quality and quantity of
capital, including by being very prudent on cash dividends.”  Spanish banks’ bad loans rose in April to 10.9 percent of
their total lending from 10.5 percent a month earlier as
companies and individuals are buffeted by a contraction that
pushed  unemployment  to 27 percent. Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said yesterday lenders will need 2 billion euros ($2.7
billion) of capital to offset losses related to new rules that
demand higher provisions for refinancing and restructured loans.  The government has injected 41 billion euros of European
Union loans into the financial system to help banks to offload
bad real estate credits as part of its efforts to restore
lending to businesses and families. The loans are being provided
via the European Stability Mechanism.  Spain  also could help banks to restore lending by swapping
deferred tax assets for tax credits, the IMF said the report.
The government should also design risk-sharing programs focused
on loans to small- and medium-sized business.  The IMF’s base case for Spain sees a return to  economic
growth  later this year, the Washington-based lender said. The
growth rate should reach about 1 percent in the medium term.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid  at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  