-- Former Olympic Champion Campbell-Brown Gets Provisional Drug Ban
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-06-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/sprinter-campbell-brown-gets-provisional-ban-amid-doping-probe.html
Two-time Olympic 200-meter champion
Veronica Campbell-Brown will fight to clear her name after
accepting a provisional suspension from competition following a
positive test for a banned substance.  Campbell-Brown, 31, was suspended while a disciplinary
panel reviews her case, the Jamaican Athletics Administrative
Association said yesterday in a  statement . She tested positive
for a banned diuretic on May 4 at the  Jamaica  International
Invitational meet, the British Broadcasting Corp. reported.  Warren Blake, the association’s president, said Campbell-Brown had voluntarily withdrawn herself from competition. Her
management company said the accusation that she had committed a
doping offense came as a “shock to her” and she doesn’t accept
“guilt of willfully taking a banned substance.”  “Veronica is not a cheat,” Claude Bryan, chief executive
officer of Atlanta-based On Track Management Inc., said in a
 statement . “She has, via hard work and dedication, accomplished
a record on the track which is absolutely remarkable. She will
begin the process of clearing her name.”  Campbell-Brown won 200-meter and 400-meter relay gold
medals at the 2004 Olympics in  Athens  and retained her 200-meter
title in Beijing four years later. She’s won 16 medals at
Olympic and World Championship meets, including a bronze in the
100-meters at last year’s London Games, where she also was a
member of Jamaica’s silver medal-winning sprint relay team.  Before her positive test, Campbell-Brown had notified anti-doping officials that she had taken medication though hadn’t
sought a so-called therapeutic use exemption that allows
athletes to use certain banned substances to treat medical
conditions, Jamaica’s Gleaner newspaper  reported .  Diuretics are banned by the  World Anti-Doping Agency  for
their ability to mask the presence of performance-enhancing
drugs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  