-- State Street’s SSgA Promotes Meier, Gekas in Reorganization
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-06-19T18:22:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/state-street-s-ssga-promotes-meier-gekas-in-reorganization.html
State Street Corp. (STT) ’s money-management unit said Alistair Lowe, who headed quantitative
equity investing, will leave the firm as part of a
reorganization to boost client returns in a volatile market.  Ted Gekas, formerly head of global enhanced equity, was
named chief investment officer and global head of active
quantitative equity, the Boston-based company said today in a
statement. Steve Meier, previously head of cash, will become CIO
for cash, currency and fixed-income. Kevin Anderson, currently
CIO and head of fixed income, will become head of investments
for the Asia Pacific region based in Hong Kong.  The changes come in response to new investor needs
following the 2008 financial crisis and “unprecedented monetary
intervention” that has lowered interest rates and investment
returns, the company said in the statement.  “In this dynamic market environment, we are evaluating our
current strategies, building on our core business strengths and
expanding into areas that will enable us to effectively deliver
tailored solutions,” Scott F. Powers, president and chief
executive officer of State Street Global Advisors, said in the
statement.  SSgA’s move to combine cash management and traditional bond
investing will help attract investors that may shift out of
money-market mutual funds because of new rules, Powers said
today in an interview. The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission proposed June 5 that institutional money funds
investing in corporate or municipal debt should be required to
replace their fixed $1 share price with a floating value.  Lowe, who was CIO for global equities, a role that didn’t
include SSgA’s Dublin-based traditional active equities team,
will leave the firm by the end of 2013, the company said in the
statement.  Quantitative investing uses mathematical models to select
securities. Enhanced equity describes a lower-risk category of
SSgA’s quantitative stock-picking strategies, Powers said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  