-- Suicide Bomber Photos Provoke Protests in Paris: Review
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2013-06-19T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/suicide-bomber-photos-provoke-protests-in-paris-review.html
Rebels? Freedom fighters?
Terrorists? The question arises not only in  Syria .  An exhibition at the Jeu de Paume, Paris’s premier
photography museum, has drawn the ire of Jewish organizations.
They accuse the museum of glorifying Palestinian suicide
bombers.  On June 16, about 30 demonstrators waving Israeli flags
protested against the show.  The Jeu de Paume has denied the accusation and warned it
will take legal action against any threats or disruptions.  The bone of contention is “ Phantom Home ,” a show devoted to
Ahlam Shibli, an Israeli-Arab photographer who defines herself
as a “Palestinian from  Israel .” Shibli, who lives in Haifa,
openly sympathizes with the Palestinian cause.  A good half of the exhibition deals with her favorite
subject.  “Trackers,” a series of photographs taken in 2005, portrays
Palestinians of Bedouin descent who are serving as volunteers in
the Israeli army. Stopping short of denouncing them as traitors,
Shibli’s captions suggest that, by joining the colonizers, they
have given up their identity.  The most controversial section, entitled “Death,” documents
the various ways in which the Palestinians who lost their lives
during the Second Intifada, the 2000-2005 West Bank uprising,
are commemorated in the refugee camps in and around Nablus.  Palestinian ‘Martyrs’  Tombstones, posters, paintings, photos and other
memorabilia mourn the “martyrs” who gave their lives for the
liberation of their homeland.  Shibli doesn’t mince words: Her captions claim that 500
residents of Nablus were killed, more than 3,000 injured and
some 60 houses destroyed.  Suicide bombings are labeled “martyrdom operations.”  To dismiss the series as worthless propaganda would be a
mistake. Shibli is a talented photographer whose work has been
seen at the Documenta in Kassel,  Germany , and other prestigious
venues.  Her biggest talent, though, may be that of a provocateur
who knows how to ask unpleasant questions.  In another section of the show titled “Trauma,” she records
how the town of Tulle in southern  France  commemorates the worst
moment in its history.  On June 9, 1944, 99 men were hanged from balconies, trees
and lamp posts by the SS division “Das Reich” in reprisal for
attacks by the French Resistance.  Double Standard  Why is it, a wall text asks, that “the same population, in
certain cases even the same individuals, who resisted occupation
by the Germans and suffered from their atrocities, waged
colonial wars in Indochina and  Algeria  a few years later against
peoples who, in their turn, claimed independence?”  In a less political part of the exhibition, Shibli portrays
gays and lesbians from various Muslim countries who have left
their birthplace to live more openly in Europe and Israel.  Normally, the Jeu de Paume is a quiet place with few
visitors. Thanks to the uproar, Shibli’s show may turn out to be
a blockbuster.  “Phantom Home”, which is supported by Neuflize Vie, runs
through Sept. 1 and will then travel to the Fundacao de
Serralves in Porto,  Portugal , where it will be on view from Nov.
15 to Feb. 9, 2014. Information:  http://www.jeudepaume.org .  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Warwick Thompson  on U.K. theater,
 Scott Reyburn  on the art market,  Jason Harper  on cars,  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on technology and  Lance Esplund  on art.  To contact the writer of this review:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at  mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 