-- Yankees Shut Out by Dodgers 6-0 After Winning First Game 6-4
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s   a n d   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-06-20T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/suzuki-s-three-rbi-lead-yankees-to-win-in-doubleheader-opener.html
Yasiel Puig reached home plate three
times as the Los Angeles Dodgers won 6-0 against the  New York
Yankees , who took the first game 6-4 in a matchup of the two
teams with the highest payrolls in Major League Baseball.  It was the first visit by the Dodgers to the Bronx since
the 1981  World Series . That postseason matchup, won by Los
Angeles, capped a five-year stretch in which the teams played
three times for baseball’s championship. They’ve met 11 times in
the World Series, more than any other two teams, with the
Yankees holding an 8-3 lead.  Puig scored in the first and fifth innings of the second
game last night at Yankee Stadium off singles by Hanley Ramirez
before hitting his fifth home run of the season in the seventh
to complete the scoring.  Chris Capuano (2-4) allowed three hits and struck out four
in six innings, while Chris Withrow and Brandon League pitched
three perfect innings for the Dodgers (30-40).  Phil Hughes  (3-6) surrendered five runs on 10 hits and
struck out three in six innings for New York.  The Yankees are 3 1/2 games behind the American League-leading Boston Red Sox, who lost 6-2 last night to the Tampa Bay
Rays.  In yesterday’s first game,  Ichiro Suzuki , 39, hit his third
home run of the season in the sixth inning, then drove in a pair
of runs with a single in the seventh as the Yankees took
advantage of four Dodgers errors.  Rivera’s Save  Hiroki Kuroda allowed two runs over 6 2/3 innings to record
the win and  Mariano Rivera  pitched a perfect ninth inning with
two strikeouts for his 25th save in 26 opportunities this season.  The Dodgers never led in the opening game even after
outhitting New York 10-8. Los Angeles designated hitter Hanley Ramirez, who was 4-for-4, hit a two-run home run in the eighth
inning, his second of the season.  The game, rescheduled after a rain out on June 18, also
marked a Yankee Stadium return for Dodgers manager  Don Mattingly ,
who spent his 14-year playing career in New York. His No. 23 is
retired in the stadium’s Monument Park.  The Dodgers’ opening day payroll was $216.6 million; the
Yankees’ was $228.8 million. Los Angeles is in last place in the
 National League West  with a record of 30-40, eight games behind
the  Arizona  Diamondbacks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net ;
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  