-- Swiss Stocks Are Little Changed Before Fed Comments
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2013-06-19T12:32:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/swiss-stocks-advance-before-fed-comments-on-stimulus.html
Swiss stocks  were little changed
before Federal Reserve policy makers wrap up a meeting today
that may shed light on future monetary policy in the world’s
largest economy.  SGS (SGSN)  SA, the world’s largest product-inspection company, and
 Swisscom (SCMN)  AG led gainers.  Meyer Burger Technology AG (MBTN)  fell 4.8
percent after Credit Suisse Group AG advised investors to sell
the shares.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  rose 0.1 percent to 7,709.67 at 2:31
p.m. in Zurich. The benchmark gauge has fallen for four straight
weeks amid speculation the Fed will start to reduce its bond-purchasing program. The broader  Swiss Performance Index (SPI)  added
0.2 percent today.  “Everyone is fearful,” said Herbert Perus, who helps
oversee about $36 billion as head of equities at Raiffeisen
Capital Management in Vienna. “Fear of the economy, fear of
rising rates, fear of duration, fear of Bernanke. Bernanke has
clearly stated a goal for employment to be much better” before
he removes stimulus. “And we are not there yet. And I expect
him to say just that today.”  The Federal Open Market Committee ends a two-day policy
meeting today, with Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  holding a press
conference at 2:30 p.m. in Washington. Bernanke on May 22 said
in Congress the bank could taper quantitative easing if economic
growth is sustained.  SGS gained 1.6 percent to 2,182 Swiss francs. Swisscom rose
0.9 percent to 408.1 francs.  Meyer Burger declined 4.8 percent to 6.71 francs, headed
for the steepest retreat since April 26. The supplier of
machinery to solar-panel makers was cut to underperform, a
rating similar to sell, from neutral at Credit Suisse, which
cited “ample risks” the company may risk its 2013 sales
guidance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  