-- Swiss Banks Face U.S. Charges as Parliament Rejects Deal
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y
-- 2013-06-19T18:31:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/swiss-banks-face-u-s-charges-as-parliament-rejects-deal.html
Swiss parliament rejected a bill
designed to resolve a dispute over undeclared bank accounts held
by U.S. citizens, potentially setting the stage for American
prosecution of the country’s banks.  Members of parliament’s lower house voted 123 to 63 against
the bill, which would have allowed Swiss banks to cooperate with
the U.S. and to settle a long-running dispute over wealthy
American tax evaders. The government has said it has no plan B,
in the event of the bill failing to pass.  Switzerland  wants to prevent the indictment of another of
the country’s banks. Wegelin & Co. was indicted last year and
pleaded guilty in January to helping U.S. taxpayers hide assets
from the  Internal Revenue Service . The bank had taken over
clients from  UBS AG (UBSN) , which avoided prosecution in 2009 by
admitting it aided  tax evasion , paying $780 million and handing
over client names.  “I don’t think the Americans will really start a wave of
indictments -- such a horror scenario is unlikely,” said Peter V. Kunz, a professor of comparative law at the University of
Bern. “I do however think the one or other banker could face
charges. But no one really knows. The legal risks and the legal
uncertainties will remain for the Swiss financial sector. How it
all will end is totally up in the air.”  U.S. Terms  The bill, which the country’s banks supported, divided
institutions into four categories based on the size of their
American business and allowed them to hand over some information
-- though not client names. Parliamentarians criticized it
because the terms of the program, such as fines, were determined
by the U.S. and hadn’t been made public.  U.S. Department of Justice spokeswoman Dena Iverson
declined to comment.  “I see big difficulties after today’s decision,” Swiss
Finance Minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf told Swiss public
broadcaster SRF.  The no vote could lead to a another Swiss bank facing
criminal charges in the U.S., which could impact the economy,
she said yesterday. Any decree the government could pass instead
of a bill would have a smaller scope and not meet all the U.S.
requests, she said.  “One can hope that the U.S. side understands” the
parliamentary rejection, Widmer-Schlumpf told lawmakers today.
“To hope, always is legitimate, also in politics. But one can’t
be too disappointed if all hopes aren’t fulfilled.”  Indictment Risk  The  Swiss Bankers Association  regretted parliament’s
decision, saying it was hard to gauge the consequences of the
step for the banking sector and the economy.  Still, “Switzerland must not take the risk of a further
indictment of a bank lightly,” it said in a  statement , adding
it expected the government to “do everything in its power to
ensure that a legal framework is created that nevertheless
renders the implementation of the U.S. program possible.”  Parliament had been asked by the government to approve the
bill in an express procedure, allowing it to go into effect on
July 1. The law wouldn’t have affected at least 12 financial
institutions, among them  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  Julius Baer
Group Ltd. (BAER) , who are already under investigation in the U.S.  “I assume that the U.S. wants to see money as soon as
possible and is less interested in how Switzerland solves the
problem of the rule of law,” said Andreas Ladner, a professor
of public administration at the University of Lausanne.  After the upper house approved the bill last week, the
lower house then rejected it yesterday, triggering a process to
resolve the disagreement between the two chambers.  The upper house reaffirmed its verdict in favor of the bill
earlier today. Both chambers urged the government to solve the
disagreement with existing law.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Bosley in Zurich at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  