-- U.K. Pension Fund Group Says Accounting Rules Clash With Law
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-06-19T16:37:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/u-k-pension-fund-group-says-accounting-rules-clash-with-law-1-.html
Britain should review how it sets
accounting rules after research found they may clash with U.K.
law, the  Local Authority Pension Fund Forum  said.  International Financial Reporting Standards follow an
incurred-loss model, which allow banks to wait until financial
assets are close to default before realizing a loss. This
contradicts the demand under U.K. law for “a true and fair”
view of profit, the London-based LAPFF said in a statement
today.  “These are extremely significant issues, given that they
directly affect the accounting practices of systemically
important financial institutions, and in turn affect the
decisions made by those institutions,” LAPFF Chairman Kieran
Quinn said in the statement.  IFRS has been the mandatory method of accounting for
publicly traded companies in the European Union since 2005 and
is drafted by the London-based  International Accounting
Standards Board . The Group of 20 industrial nations created a
body to examine alternatives to the incurred-loss model
following the 2008 financial crisis.  Legal Opinion  George Bompas , a trial lawyer in  London , provided the legal
opinion on the rules for the LAPFF, the U.K.-based Universities
Superannuation Scheme,  Threadneedle Asset Management Ltd . and
the U.K. Shareholders’ Association. The LAPFF supplied  the view 
as evidence to the Parliamentary Commission on Banking
Standards, which published its findings today.  The House of Lords Economic Affairs Committee or the
Treasury Committee should consider how IFRS became part of EU
law, the commission’s report said.  “There is clearly widespread concern about IFRS and the
method by which it is introduced into EU law,” the commission’s
report said.  Banks should recognize losses on loans before the assets go
into default, the  International Accounting Standards Board  said
in March.  “IFRS may sound dull and unimportant, but lack of
compliance with the EU accounting law, as well as the standards
themselves, played a central role in the crisis,” Syed Kamall,
a U.K. Conservative lawmaker representing London in the EU
Parliament, said in an e-mailed statement.  “We cannot allow the situation to continue where bankers’
bonuses might be paid out of profits that do not actually
exist.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  