-- U.K. Soldiers’ Families Can Sue Over Iraq Deaths, Court Says
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-06-19T11:24:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/u-k-soldiers-families-can-sue-over-iraq-deaths-court-says.html
The families of three U.K. soldiers
killed in lightly-armored vehicles in  Iraq  can sue the British
government for damages under European human-rights law, the U.K.
Supreme Court ruled.  The seven-judge panel at the U.K.’s top court  said  today
that at the time of their deaths the soldiers, killed in Snatch
Land Rovers, were within the country’s jurisdiction and should
be subject to human rights legislation.  “The sad fact is that, while members of the armed forces
on active service can be given some measure of protection
against death and injury, the nature of the job they do means
that this can never be complete,” Judge David Hope said in the
written ruling.  Nearly 180 British soldiers died during the country’s
eight-year involvement in the U.S.-led  Iraq war  before troops
were withdrawn in 2011. The claims in the case, some of which
involve a friendly fire incident during the first days of the
invasion, include claims that soldiers weren’t properly trained
or given equipment to protect them from attacks.  Defense Secretary Philip Hammond said that the ruling might
open up military operations to second guessing in the courts.  “Our thoughts remain with those who were injured and the
families of those who sadly lost their lives,” Hammond said in
an e-mailed statement. “I am very concerned at the wider
implications of this judgment, which could ultimately make it
more difficult for our troops to carry out operations and
potentially throws open a wide range of military decisions to
the uncertainty of litigation.”  Private Phillip Hewett was killed in July 2005, Private Lee
Ellis died in February 2006 and Lance Corporal Kirk Redpath was
killed in August 2007, according to the ruling.  “The highest court in the land has now ruled the MoD, as
employer must accept that it owes a duty of care to properly
equip service personnel who go to war,” said Shubhaa
Srinivasan, a lawyer at Leigh Day & Co. who represented one of
the families. “We have constantly argued that the MoD’s
position is morally and legally indefensible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  