-- U.S. Company Credit Swaps Rise Most in Year After Fed Statement
-- B y   S c o t t   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-06-19T21:54:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/u-s-corporate-credit-swaps-hold-before-federal-reserve-decision.html
A gauge of  U.S. corporate credit
risk rose the most in more than a year after the  Federal Reserve 
concluded a two-day policy meeting, spurring speculation the
central bank will reduce stimulus that’s bolstered the market.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, used
to hedge against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness,
increased 5.9 basis points to a mid-price of 87.7 basis points
at 4:57 p.m. in  New York , according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s the biggest jump since the measure added 6.2
basis points on May 14, 2012, excluding rolls into new series of
the benchmark.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  said dangers to the
economy and the labor market have decreased, reiterating that
future bond purchases will depend on the outlook for jobs and
inflation. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank
may reduce its $85 billion monthly purchases of mortgage and
Treasury securities later this year and may end them in mid-2014
if the economy continues to improve as it forecasts.  “The Fed is scaring out the short-term holders but
providing opportunities for the long-term holders,” Brian Reynolds, chief market strategist at Rosenblatt Securities Inc.
in New York, said in a telephone interview. “It’s a short-term
negative, but a long-term positive.”  The credit-swaps index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  ‘Current Expectations’  “If the subsequent data remain broadly aligned with our
current expectations for the economy, we will continue to reduce
the pace of purchases in measured steps through the first half
of next year, ending purchases around mid-year,” Bernanke said
today at a press conference in  Washington .  U.S. stocks and Treasuries retreated and the dollar rallied
on the Fed statement. Ten-year Treasury  yields  jumped 17 basis
points to 2.35 percent, the highest in 15 months. The  Dollar
Index , a gauge against six major peers, rose 0.9 percent to
81.32, the highest since June 10.  Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. (VRX) , the drug
distributor acquiring Bausch & Lomb Holdings Inc., is planning
to sell $3.23 billion of bonds and $4.05 billion in loans to
help fund the purchase.  Valeant Financing  The Laval, Quebec-based company may sell eight- and 10-year
senior bonds next week, according to a person with knowledge of
the transaction who asked not to be identified because the terms
weren’t set. Proceeds from the note sale will be used to fund
the merger and to repay or retire Bausch’s debt, Valeant said
yesterday in a statement.  The company is also seeking a $3.55 billion term loan B and
a $500 million term A piece, according to a person with
knowledge of that transaction, who asked not to be identified
because the deal is private.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index rose 37.2 basis points to 438.7 basis points, the
largest increase since March 27, Bloomberg prices show.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt tightened 11.1 basis points to 540.8 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and less than BBB- at  Standard
& Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Harrison in New York at 
 sharrison52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  