-- U.S. Human-Trafficking Report Criticizes China, Russia
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-06-20T08:14:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/u-s-human-trafficking-report-criticizes-china-russia.html
The Obama administration has
downgraded the ratings of China,  Russia  and Uzbekistan in an
annual report on global efforts to combat modern slavery.  The three-tier ranking puts Russia and China on a list of
the world’s worst offenders, such as  North Korea  and  Saudi
Arabia , and below second-tier countries such as  Rwanda ,
described in the  report  as a destination for “women and
children subjected to forced labor and sex trafficking.”  About 27 million men, women and children worldwide are
trapped in some form of slavery -- South Asian maids confined in
Qatari homes against their will, children taken from school to
work in Uzbek cotton fields and Paraguayans forced into labor in
Argentine sweatshops. Millions of women and children are
trafficked for sex. Very few are even identified, a focus of
this year’s report.  “Modern day slavery affects every country in the world
including the  United States ,” Secretary of State  John Kerry 
said yesterday. “No government is doing enough.”  Ambassador Luis CdeBaca, who heads the State Department’s
Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons, said
identifying victims is a key to fighting the abuses.  “Everything we do is driven by finding and identifying
these people,” he said on a call with reporters. Last year,
46,500 of the world’s 27 million victims were identified, he
said, indicating the scale of the work ahead.  27 Downgrades  Of 188 countries examined, 27 were downgraded and 14 moved
up in rankings that assess their commitment and success in
stopping human trafficking. The report is mandated by Congress
and based on information provided by nonprofit organizations,
reports from embassies and activists.  China ’s Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said
today her country has always been “highly focused” on fighting
human-trafficking.  “We are against irresponsible accusations against China on
this issue,” Hua said. “The U.S. should treat China’s effort
fairly and objectively, and stop making one-sided judgments.”  The Russian Foreign Ministry accused the U.S. of being
motivated by “political antipathy” toward Russia and other
countries.  “We will respond reciprocally to these unfriendly steps,”
the ministry said in a  statement  on its website today.  Representatives at Uzbekistan’s Washington embassy didn’t
respond to requests for comment on the report.  ‘Tough’ Report  Kerry called the report “tough” and said recent studies
have shown that countries are twice as likely to take action
once they get the report’s lowest ranking.  This year’s rankings were released amid strains in
relations with both Russia and China. The U.S. and Russia are at
odds over Moscow’s support for Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s war against rebels within his country. The U.S. also is
trying to win help from its former Cold War foe to restrain
 Iran’s nuclear program  and enact new controls on the
proliferation of nuclear weapons.  A “shirt-sleeves summit” this month between President
 Barack Obama  and Chinese President Xi Jinping, meant to
establish cordial relations, was chilled when Xi questioned U.S.
allegations about Chinese computer hacking in light of
revelations about U.S. monitoring of computer and telephone use.  Russia and China both had been on the “Tier Two Watch
List,” a status that requires improvement within four years
before the State Department is required by law to downgrade
those countries. This is the first year the provision for
mandatory downgrades is in effect.  Mature Relationship  “We trust that the relationship with these countries is a
mature relationship; this is one of many issues with which we
deal with these governments,” CdeBaca said. “While sometimes
these truths can be hard to tell and hard to hear, at the same
time, we need to have an accurate and respectful dialogue with
them on what can be done and what needs to be done.”  Non-governmental organizations had some concerns that
politics would intrude and countries such as China or Russia
would be upgraded despite a lack of improvement.  Karen Stauss, director of programs at the Washington-based
advocacy group Free the Slaves, said there was even concern that
U.S. allies currently in their last year on the watch list
before mandatory demotion, such as  Thailand , would be pre-emptively upgraded to avoid offending them next year.  “The political will that this report represents is really
something,” Stauss said in a telephone interview. “We were all
preparing for the possibility that the downgrades wouldn’t
happen across the board.”  Strong Reasons  “Of the three downgraded, with China and Russia there are
strong reasons not to fray relations,” Stauss said.  Before the mandatory demotion to Tier Three this year,
Russia had spent nine years on the Tier Two watch list. It ranks
among the top 10 countries of origin for trafficked people, with
as many as 130,000 victims estimated to be in Moscow alone.  While Russia’s Ministry of Interior estimates that as many
as 17,000 children are being forced to work as prostitutes, the
actual number is thought to be closer to 50,000, according to
Free the Slaves.  The 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi, Russia, has become a
driver of abuse. A February Human Rights Watch report documented
abuse of workers, including laborers cheated out of wages,
deprived of their passports or work permits, and given few days
off.  Chinese Trafficking  China is cited in the report as a significant source of
girls and women subjected to forced prostitution throughout the
world. Most of its trafficking occurs among the estimated 236
million internal migrants within Chinese borders, according to
the State Department report. They are forced to work in brick
kilns, coal mines and factories.  “China does not fully comply with the minimum standards
for the elimination of trafficking,” the report said, and was
being downgraded after nine years on the watch list. The report
found that the government itself “continued to perpetuate human
trafficking in at least 320 state-run institutions.”  Children in “work-study” programs supported by local
governments were forced to work in farms and factories and in
2012, some schools were reported for forcing students to work in
factories.  In Uzbekistan, the world’s sixth-largest cotton producer
and the third-largest exporter of the commodity, the government
threatens to jail or withhold social benefits from people who
don’t contribute to the country’s cotton harvest quota,
according to Free the Slaves. This year, the country is being
demoted to the State Department’s Tier Three for continuing to
use older children to harvest cotton and weed fields.  The State Department also cited reports that teachers,
students and private business employees have been forced by the
Uzbek government to work in construction, agriculture and in
cleaning parks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  