-- U.S. REITs Fall Most Since 2011 on Concern of Rate Rise
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2013-06-19T20:49:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/u-s-reits-fall-most-since-2011-on-concern-of-rate-rise.html
U.S. real estate investment  trusts 
fell the most in 19 months as the Federal Reserve said it could
scale back bond purchases this year, fueling concern that rising
 interest  rates will increase acquisition and refinancing costs.  The Bloomberg REIT Index declined 3 percent, the most since
November 2011. The gauge has lost 12 percent from an almost six-year high on May 21 amid speculation the Fed would reduce bond
purchases, which have kept borrowing costs near record lows.  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said today that policy makers
may end the purchases in mid-2014 if the economy continues to
improve, sending the yield on 10-year Treasury  notes  to a 15-month high. REITs are dependent on the capital markets to
finance acquisitions and development because they can’t keep
large amounts of cash on hand. They also are required to pay out
most of their taxable earnings to shareholders, making them
comparable to a bond investment.  “The cost of capital, both debt and equity, is really
important,” Jim Sullivan, a managing director at Green Street
Advisors Inc., a Newport Beach, California-based research
company focused on REITs, said in a telephone interview.
“That’s a strong headwind for any industry that’s capital
intensive, including commercial real estate.”  Select Income REIT (SIR) , a Newton, Massachusetts-based owner of
single-tenant properties, fell the most today of the 129 members
in the REIT index, losing 4.8 percent to $28.47. Indianapolis-based  Simon Property Group Inc. (SPG) , the largest U.S. REIT, dropped
2.9 percent to $162.52.  The Bloomberg Healthcare REIT Index fell 4 percent today
and has lost 18 percent from its May 21 high. The Bloomberg
Single-Tenant REIT Index is down 17 percent from its recent
peak, the second-worst performance among industry  groups .  Single-tenant landlords, which own buildings rented to
companies such as fast-food chains or pharmacies, typically have
tenants with long leases. That gives the properties “bond-like” qualities that makes them less attractive to investors
when rates rise, said Ryan Severino, senior economist at  Reis
Inc. (REIS) , a real estate data company in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  