-- Lundbeck Fined $125.6 Million by EU Drug Delay Probe
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-06-19T12:02:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/lundbeck-fined-125-6-million-by-eu-drug-delay-probe.html
H. Lundbeck A/S (LUN) , the Nordic region’s
second-largest drugmaker, was fined 93.8 million euros ($125.6
million) by the European Union in its first case over pay-for-delay deals that held back sales of cheaper generic drugs.  The European Commission, the EU’s antitrust regulator, also
fined a group of generic-drug makers a total of 52.2 million
euros today in Brussels. The companies reached agreements that
may have slowed the availability of generic versions of
Lundbeck’s antidepressant citalopram, marketed as Celexa,
according to the regulator.  “Instead of competing, the generic producers agreed with
Lundbeck in 2002 not to enter the market in return for
substantial payments and other inducements from Lundbeck
amounting to tens of millions of euros,” the commission said in
a statement. “Internal documents refer to a ‘club’ being formed
and ‘a pile of $$$’ to be shared among the participants.”  Antitrust regulators on both sides of the Atlantic are
focusing on how settlements between companies that make branded
medicines and generics producers might harm consumers. Les
Laboratoires Servier and  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ,
the world’s largest generic-drug maker, were sent statements of
objections by the EU in probes over possible delays for generic
drugs last year.  Patent Settlements  “We are surprised and disappointed that the EU commission
has reached this erroneous conclusion, which we totally disagree
with, and it is therefore our intention to appeal,” said Ulf
Wiinberg, chief executive officer of Copenhagen-based Lundbeck.  “It is wrong and extremely misleading” of the commission
“to claim that these agreements have delayed the marketing of
citalopram copies and thereby violated competition laws,” said
Wiinberg. The agreements were meant to protect against patent
infringements by the generic companies, he said.  Merck KGaA was fined 21.4 million euros, of which it will
share a 7.8 million-euro penalty with Generics UK, a  unit  of
Mylan Inc.  Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. (RBXY)  was fined 10.3 million
euros. Zoetis Products and Xellia Pharmaceuticals, which was
bought last month by  Novo A/S , were jointly fined 10.5 million-euros, while  AL Industrier AS (ALIA)  was held jointly liable with them
for 43,216 euros of that amount.  Ranbaxy said in e-mailed statement that the commission
“misunderstood the facts” in the case and that it intends to
appeal.  Possible Appeal  Lundbeck rose as much as 1.5 percent in Copenhagen trading
and was trading up 1 percent at 12:58 p.m. Merck rose 1.1
percent to 124.70 euros at 12:18 p.m. in  Frankfurt .  Merck is weighing an appeal, Gangolf Schrimpf, a spokesman
for the company, said in a phone interview. “The fine will not
have any impact on our 2013 financial result,” he said.  Watson Pharmaceutical Inc.’s Arrow unit was fined 10
million euros, of which Resolution Chemicals is jointly held
liable for 823,735 euros.  The Lundbeck investigation is the EU’s first case over pay-for-delay settlements, regulators said. The EU antitrust
watchdog has also sought information from companies including
GlaxoSmithKline Plc over patent settlement agreements to check
if any there is harm to competition.  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and  Novartis AG (NOVN)  in January were sent EU
complaints over such deals that may have hampered the sale of
generic versions of pain killer fentanyl in the Netherlands. The
EU is  also looking  at an agreement by Cephalon Inc. and Teva
that may have delayed generic versions of Cephalon’s product,
Provigil. Teva acquired Cephalon in 2011.  ‘Unacceptable’ Behavior  “It is unacceptable that a company pays off its
competitors to stay out of its market and delay the entry of
cheaper medicines,” EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia 
said in the EU statement.  Still, Almunia told journalists that drug companies may
have lessened anti-competitive behavior in the wake of EU
investigations into the industry.  “The overwhelming majority” of patent settlement
agreements “are entirely legitimate as they do not involve
practices to pay” competitors, he said. “Payment to exclude
the entry into the market of a competitor” is illegal.  The EU decision is complemented by a U.S. Supreme Court
decision this week that drugmakers can be sued for paying rivals
to delay low-cost versions of popular medicines, said Almunia.
The decision rewrites the rules governing the release of generic
drugs by reversing a lower-court decision that had effectively
insulated pharmaceutical companies from liability.  EFPIA ‘Concerned’  The European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and
Associations, whose members include pharmaceutical companies
such as Lundbeck, Glaxo and Pfizer Inc., said it’s “concerned”
about the EU decision.  It “will only prolong patent litigation,” said EFPIA in a
statement. It “weakens the protection afforded by patents and
will undermine confidence in the patent system itself.”  “The EU patent system is still a mess” with no unified
patent litigation mechanism available to companies, said Richard
Bergstroem, EFPIA’s director general. “It is no surprise that
companies settle to save legal fees and uncertainty.”  U.K. regulators have also targeted delays to generic
medicines. Officials sent an antitrust complaint to Glaxo in
April over concerns it may have colluded with generic-drug
makers to keep copies of its Seroxat antidepressant off the
market.  Antitrust watchdogs are right to investigate and ban pay-for-delay deals, Farasat Bokhari, an economist at the U.K’s
University of East Anglia, said in a statement on his research
into the effects of such agreements published today.  “They allow branded drug firms to charge monopoly prices
and in a typical deal there may be a two to three year delay in
a cheaper version becoming available,” Bokhari said.  Merck KGaA (MRK) , Germany’s second-biggest drugmaker, is
independent from  Merck & Co. (MRK)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Brussels via 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  