-- All Istanbul Will Vote on Park Plans, Turkish Government Says
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2013-06-19T15:28:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/turkey-protesters-face-criminal-charges-as-silent-vigils-spread.html
The whole of Istanbul will vote on a
project to redevelop Gezi Park in the city center that sparked
the protest movement of recent weeks, government spokesman
Huseyin Celik said today.  The plebiscite will cover an area with a population of
about 14 million people in 39 districts and towns, from the
Black Sea coastal town of Sile to the town of Silivri more than
70 kilometers west of Istanbul, according to Celik’s
announcement in Ankara today. The government had previously said
the vote may be held across Istanbul or in the Beyoglu district
that includes Gezi Park and the adjoining Taksim Square.  Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s party and its
predecessors have won all local elections in Istanbul since
1994, and took 48 percent of the vote there in 2011 general
elections. The government says it will wait for a local court
ruling on the legality of its plans, which include a replica of
an Ottoman barracks at Gezi Park, before holding a vote.  The demonstrations over Gezi that erupted on May 31 have
turned into the most serious unrest during Erdogan’s decade in
power. They broadened to target what the protesters say is the
government’s increasingly authoritarian approach and attempts to
impose Islamic ways on the country after three election wins. At
least four people have died in clashes between demonstrators and
police, and thousands have been injured.  Protesters Charged  Prosecutors asked a court to press criminal charges against
28 people in connection with violence during the unrest, the
Anatolia news agency reported. The suspects included members of
soccer team Besiktas’s fan club, known as Carsi. Some members of
Carsi were spotted in clashes with police in Taksim Square and
near Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s office in Besiktas
district, TRT television said.  Turkish markets have been hit by the unrest. Stocks rallied
today, with the  benchmark index  adding 1.4 percent at the end of
the first session in Istanbul, to pare its decline this month to
8.5 percent. Yields on two-year debt were unchanged at 6.81
percent.  The Turkish union of engineers and architects, which has
been at the forefront of opposition to the Taksim Square plans,
said almost 400 have been detained, including three of its
members who were later released though two face charges. It
called on the government to halt the “anti-democratic” arrests
and release those detained while pressing charges against
security forces who used violence against protesters.  ‘Standing Man’  As heavy police deployment in city centers discouraged
crowds, many protesters have stood still in the squares and
streets, inspired by performance artist Erdem Gunduz’s eight-hour “standing man” vigil in Taksim on the night of June 17.
Members of the pro-Kurdish People’s Democracy Party held a
similar five-minute protest during a parliamentary session
yesterday.  Celik said today that total damage from the protests
reached 140 million liras ($74 million). The government has
accused opposition and extremist groups, financial speculators
and unidentified foreign powers of fueling the unrest, which
Erdogan yesterday called a “conspiracy.” He has repeatedly
accused protesters and opposition lawmakers of fueling protests
by disseminating false information on social media.  Transportation Minister Binali Yildirim told reporters
today that there will be no limitations on the use of social
media, while confirming that work is under way to combat cyber-crime. Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc said there should be
measures to stop the spreading of false rumors on social media
that lead to casualties.  Arinc said the “standing man” protests are “civilized,”
while warning against the possible health hazards of standing
for too long.  “We should encourage such protests within the law,” Arinc
said. “However, I think they should stand for five minutes and
then go to their work or school in the sixth minute. Eight hours
is too long.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  