-- US Airways-American Deal Would Cut Competition, GAO Says
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-06-19T20:26:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/us-airways-american-deal-would-cut-competition-gao-says.html
The proposed merger between  US
Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  and  AMR Corp. ’s  American Airlines  would
reduce competition on 11.9 percent of U.S. air routes, a
government review found.  The number of cities that would lose a carrier after the
merger is 47 percent higher than in the 2010 combination that
created  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) , Gerald Dillingham, who
heads transportation issues at the U.S. Government
Accountability Office, told a Senate hearing today.  The new carrier will raise prices, decrease service and
create labor unrest for its employees, Charles Leocha, director
of the Washington-based Consumer Travel Alliance, said at the
hearing.  “There are no benefits overall,” Leocha said. “It’s time
to stop this merger madness.”  The Commerce, Science and Transportation’s aviation
subcommittee hearing came a day after two Senators, Democrat  Amy Klobuchar  of Minnesota and Republican  Mike Lee  of Utah, wrote a
letter urging U.S. regulators to consider the merger’s impacts
on consumers.  US Airways  Chief Executive Officer Doug Parker, who will
lead the combined carrier if the merger is approved by the
 Justice Department , defended the marriage at the hearing. The
Department of Transportation assists Justice analysts in their
review.  Merger Defended  Concerns by Leocha and others are “just plain wrong,”
Parker told the committee.  The combination of American and US Airways will make it
easier to compete against United and  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) ,
giving passengers more choices and enhancing competition, he
said.  US Airways, based in Tempe, Arizona, now flies to 64
cities, most of those small- and medium-sized, where American
has no service, he said. Many passengers in those cities will
gain access to what is now American’s hub network, he said.  “US Airways historically has provided extensive service to
smaller communities and the merger will allow us to continue to
extend that focus, building on complementary service offered by
American Eagle,” he said.  US Airways has estimated the merger will create $1.4
billion in benefits, according to GAO.  The two carriers have overlapping nonstop routes on 12 city
pairs, according to October 2012 data analyzed by GAO. In seven
of those, the combined carrier would be the only airline.  Losing Competition  Routes on which the two carriers have the only nonstop
flights include  Charlotte ,  North Carolina  to Miami; Washington’s
Reagan National to Raleigh, North Carolina, and Miami to
Philadelphia, according to Dillingham.  Compared to the 2010 merger between  United Airlines  and
Continental, 530 more routes will lose at least one competitor
if this merger goes forward, the GAO found.  In all, 1,665 city-pair markets carrying 53 million
passengers a year will lose a competing airline in the merger,
according to the  GAO  --  47 percent more than in the previous
deal. At least one competitor would remain in most of those
markets.  The proposed merger would add a new competitor with at
least 5 percent market share on 210 routes, the review found.  GAO analyzed 13,963 airport pairs.  The combined airline may close some of its hubs, the GAO
concluded.  Washington Slots  “New York could serve as a better hub and international
gateway than Philadelphia in the Northeast, while Miami could be
a better hub than Charlotte in the Southeast,” the GAO report
said.  Competitors including  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU)  and  Southwest
Airlines Co. (LUV)  have said the new American will control too many
flights at  Reagan National , where capacity is limited by the
U.S. government.  Parker has said the Washington region is served by two
other airports with ample competition and he doesn’t expect
antitrust issues to be raised.  The new carrier will have to reduce service to smaller
communities if forced to give up flights at Reagan National,
Parker said.  US Airways had to drop flights from Washington to Madison,
Wisconsin and Grand Rapids, Michigan last year after it gave up
slots in an agreement with the Transportation Department, Parker
said.  Senators’ Letter  Leocha’s group found competition would decline at some non-hub airports where US Airways and American now compete. Those
cities include Austin,  Texas ; Pittsburgh, San Diego and Las
Vegas.  Klobuchar, chairman of the Judiciary Committee’s antitrust
panel, and Lee, the subcommittee’s ranking Republican, wrote to
Attorney General Eric Holder and Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood yesterday to raise questions about the merger.  “Consumer advocates assert that this additional
consolidation could lead to a reduction in consumer welfare in
the form of increased prices and fees, and decreased choice,
service, and quality,” they said in the letter.  Senator  Jay Rockefeller , the West Virginia Democrat who is
chairman of the commerce committee, said in an e-mailed
statement he was “uncertain” the merger would benefit
passengers.  “We must make sure that the advantages of a strong
aviation sector benefit more than just shareholders,”
Rockefeller said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  