-- Vietnam Leader in China Seeks Export Gains Amid Sea Tension
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-19T09:44:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/vietnam-leader-visiting-china-seeks-export-gain-amid-sea-tension.html
Talks between the presidents of
 Vietnam  and China, their first meeting since China’s leadership
change, will focus on bolstering economic ties even as tensions
rise over disputed territory in the South China Sea.  Vietnam President Truong Tan Sang arrived this afternoon
and is set to meet President Xi Jinping during a three-day
visit, the official Xinhua News Agency said. The two countries
are among only five remaining Communist nations worldwide, the
others being  North Korea ,  Laos  and Cuba.  Sang, facing pressure at home to stand up to China as he
makes his first trip there as president, will address disputes
over islands and energy resources in the South China Sea while
seeking Chinese investment to boost Vietnam’s economy, which his
government targets to grow 5.5 percent this year. That would be
Vietnam’s first period of three straight years of growth below
six percent since 1988, according to International Monetary Fund
data.  “President Sang will have difficult talks in Beijing” as
he balances Vietnam’s economic needs with its concern over
China’s aspirations in the  South China Sea , economist Le Dang Doanh, who has advised Vietnam Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung
and was formerly president of the Central Institute for Economic
Management, said in an e-mail. “Vietnam’s economy is in a very
difficult situation.”  Competition for fish, gas and oil has intensified between
China and other Asian countries, with Vietnam and the
Philippines rejecting China’s maritime claims as a basis for
joint development of oil and gas reserves. Last month Vietnam
demanded compensation after a Chinese ship rammed a fishing boat
off its coast.  Trade Ties  China’s trade with Vietnam is less than many other Asian
countries, including those with a smaller population than
Vietnam’s 89 million people. In the first five months of the
year, two-way  trade  amounted to $24.4 billion, a 33.8 percent
rise from the year-earlier period, according to Chinese customs
figures. During the same period, China’s trade with  Singapore 
was $30.7 billion and its trade with  Malaysia  was $43.1 billion.  Vietnam’s trade deficit with China is widening. China
recorded a  trade surplus  with Vietnam of more than $11 billion
from January through May, with exports to Vietnam rising almost
46 percent and imports increasing almost 10 percent, Chinese
trade figures show.  Still, as wages in China rise, some global manufacturers,
including Beaverton, Oregon-based  Nike Inc. (NKE) , are ramping up
production in Vietnam. In 2010, Vietnam surpassed China as the
largest supplier of Nike-brand footwear, according to the
company’s annual reports.  Chinese Tourism  Doanh said Sang will focus on increasing Chinese tourism,
seeking more Chinese investment and boosting Vietnam’s exports
during his talks with Xi and other Chinese leaders.  Sang’s government has emphasized the need to keep trade in
the region moving. Last month, Prime Minister Dung warned that
miscalculations over territorial disputes could threaten trade
along key shipping lanes.  Vietnam welcomes a stronger U.S. Naval presence in the
region as a hedge against the growing military might of China,
said Carlyle Thayer, an emeritus professor at the Australian
Defense Force Academy in Canberra. Sang will want to gauge
 China ’s relationship with the U.S. after Xi met President Obama
earlier this month in California, he said by phone. “Vietnam
will be keen to get a readout.”  Political Trust  In a statement to  Bloomberg News  yesterday, Vietnam Foreign
Affairs Ministry spokesman Luong Thanh Nghi said the visit aims
“to strengthen political trust” between the two countries.
Vietnam wants to deepen relations “for peace, stability and
development in the region,” he said.  He said the president’s delegation, which will include
Deputy Prime Minister Nguyen Thien Nhan, will also visit China’s
manufacturing hub,  Guangdong province .  Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying told
reporters on June 14 “we hope through this visit we can further
strengthen mutual trust with Vietnam.”  The visit may help allay concern in China about a U.S.
rebalancing toward Asia and away from the  Middle East , and move
toward better management of economic frictions, according to
Shen Dingli, director of the Center for American Studies at
Fudan University in  Shanghai .  “If the economic competition is not handled well, that
will hurt the political relationship,” Shen said. “We need to
build a healthy, ordinary economic relationship.”  ‘Guns Blazing’  Territorial tensions have led to anti-China demonstrations
in Vietnam. Police in Hanoi arrested activists during a protest
on June 2, the  Associated Press  reported.  In March Vietnam accused a Chinese ship of firing on
Vietnamese fishermen near the  Paracel Islands , which China has
controlled since a battle with Vietnam in 1974. Vietnam and
China also separately claim some of the Spratly Islands area.  Sang will encourage maritime code of conduct talks between
China and members of the 10-member  Association of Southeast
Asian Nations , Thayer said.  “Vietnam will not go in guns blazing about the South China
Sea,” he said. “Vietnam has to be very careful which battles
it picks with China.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Boudreau in Hanoi at 
 jboudreau3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  