-- Vipshop Tumbles as No Easing Signaled: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-06-19T16:38:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/vipshop-tumbles-as-no-easing-signaled-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities fell for the first
time in three days in New York, led by  Vipshop Holdings Ltd. (VIPS) , as
the government signaled no plans to ease monetary policy.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. slipped 1.1 percent to 87.56 as of
12:03 p.m. Vipshop, a Guangzhou-based online fashion retailer,
sank the most in three weeks, and  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) 
slid 5.7 percent in its first decline in four days. China Unicom
( Hong Kong ) Ltd. fell the most this month after data showed
subscriber additions slowed in May.  China will study measures to support its economic
restructuring and maintain a prudent monetary policy while
keeping  money supply  at a “reasonable” level, the cabinet said
in a statement yesterday. A  gauge  of interbank funding
availability in China surged to the highest level in two years
as the central bank refrained from adding funds to ease a cash
squeeze. The  Federal Open Market Committee  plans to release a
statement after a two-day meeting in Washington.  China’s statement signals “the slowdown isn’t worrisome
enough for policy makers to take any action at the moment,”
 Michael Wang , an emerging-markets strategist at Amiya Capital
LLP in London, said by e-mail. “It raises the risk of much
slower growth.”  China’s economic growth  slowed  to 7.7 percent in the first
quarter, from 7.9 percent in the prior period.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., tumbled 1 percent to $34.23
after rising the previous two days. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index slipped 0.1 percent to 1,649.88, its first decline this
week, before a Federal Reserve meeting that may clarify the
outlook for U.S. monetary stimulus.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index in Hong Kong dropped
1.5 percent to 9,584.54, retreating for a second day this week.
The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slumped 0.7 percent to 2,143.45,
extending its slump to 6.8 percent this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  