-- Vodafone Said to Raise Kabel Deutschland Offer
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-06-19T20:10:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/vodafone-said-to-raise-kabel-deutschland-offer.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  raised its
preliminary offer to buy  Kabel Deutschland Holding AG (KD8)  to about
7.5 billion euros ($10 billion) to persuade Germany’s largest
cable company to enter talks, said people familiar with the bid.  Vodafone this week told Kabel Deutschland it would be
willing to pay 85 euros a share, compared with the offer of 80
euros to 82 euros the German company initially rejected, said
the people, who asked not to be named because the talks are
private. The Newbury, England-based company is now in
discussions with Kabel Deutschland and studying its books before
it presents an official offer in the coming weeks, they said.  The new proposal may lay the groundwork for a bidding war
with John Malone’s  Liberty Global Plc (LBTYA) , which made its own
preliminary offer that also was said to be valued at 85 euros a
share. Kabel Deutschland rose past that price in  Frankfurt 
trading, indicating that investors expect a higher offer. Kabel
Deutschland shareholders may be able to demand 90 euros a share,
 Robin Bienenstock , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in London,
said in a note to investors.  “Vodafone has allowed itself to become hemmed in by
Liberty Global and other competitors,” Bienenstock said.
“There are no good outcomes for Vodafone shareholders -- either
the company overbids or risks being shut out of their largest
market.”  Kabel Deutschland  advanced  dropped 0.3 percent to 85.25
euros in Frankfurt, valuing the company at about 7.5 billion
euros. Before today, the shares had risen 34 percent since
Vodafone’s interest first surfaced four months ago. Vodafone
fell 1.6 percent to 181.45 pence in London.  Liberty’s Proposal  Liberty’s offer was in shares and the company could inject
its existing German cable assets, Unitymedia KabelBW GmbH, into
Kabel Deutschland, which would remain a listed entity, one of
the people said.  Kabel Deutschland’s management, led by Chief Executive
Officer Adrian von Hammerstein, may favor Vodafone’s bid because
it is all cash and may have better chances of being approved by
 Germany ’s Federal Cartel Office, the nation’s competition
regulator, one person said.  Representatives at Vodafone, Munich-based Kabel Deutschland
and Liberty declined to comment. Kabel Deutschland’s statement
this week on Liberty’s preliminary offer didn’t disclose the
price.  Kabel Deutschland sold shares for 22 euros apiece in its
2010 initial public offering.  European Expansion  Buying Kabel Deutschland would give Vodafone, the second-largest wireless carrier in the world, access to the German
company’s 8.5 million connected households and potential
customers for combined landline, mobile and TV subscriptions in
Europe’s biggest telecommunications market.  Vodafone and Liberty Global both want Kabel Deutschland to
expand their empires in Europe. Phone companies across the
continent are bulking up their networks and adding services as
they work to increase customer bills and loyalty. Bundles of TV,
Internet and phone service are becoming increasingly popular,
stoking deals and partnerships between carriers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in  London  at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  