-- Who Killed Equality?
-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 2013-06-19T22:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/who-killed-equality-.html
There are two main schools of
thought on income  inequality : The fatalists, who contend that
rising inequality is the ineluctable result of a changing
economy, and the redistributionists, who blame a skewed tax
system and lethargic government. Perhaps it’s time to consider a
third.  The fatalist case rests on technology: As we replace human
toil with networked computers and tireless robots, those who own
the technology or learn to master it benefit, and those whose
jobs are displaced by technology suffer. The ease with which we
outsource jobs, ship goods and videoconference to  China  helps
people who own companies but hurts those whose jobs are shipped
out. The winner-take-all economy is a boon to people who can
market themselves or their product globally and a bust for those
who can’t.  Of course, this creates a less equal world, the fatalists
say. A private equity manager can goose profits at one company
by outsourcing the call center and at another by automating
production. The new economy is perfectly organized to make this
manager richer. Meanwhile, the 52-year-old machinist who was
fired isn’t trained in the latest technology, can’t compete with
the low wages of a Malaysian 19-year-old and is stuck on the
outskirts of Reno,  Nevada , with an upside-down mortgage.
Everything in the new economy is working to make him poorer.
Inequality is simply the space between those two lives.  Precisely as this analysis would predict, income inequality
has skyrocketed since 1979. Median income for high-school
educated men has fallen by 31 percent. Meanwhile, the top 1
percent has seen its pay rocket up 130 percent. And that’s
before taxes even enter the picture.  One Conclusion  Fatalists conclude that government hasn’t caused inequality
-- taxes and social services haven’t changed all that much -- so
government action raising taxes or increasing infrastructure
spending, for example, won’t fix it either. The only possible
remedy is more education and training for workers, which will
take decades. Shame, isn’t it?  The redistributionists agree with much of this analysis.
But they think the fatalists understate both how much the
government has contributed to inequality by cutting taxes on the
rich and not investing in the poor, and how much good it could
still do. In a new  paper  for the Economic Policy Institute,
Andrew Fieldhouse makes the most optimistic version of this
case.  The effective tax rates for the very rich -- that is, the
tax rates they actually pay -- have fallen precipitously since
the 1970s. “The effective tax rate for the top hundredth of a
percentile (i.e., tax filers in the 99.99-percent-and-above
range by income) has fallen by more than half, from 71.4 percent
in 1960 to 34.7 percent in 2004.” So as the rich have gotten
richer, the share of income they pay in taxes has declined.  The twist in Fieldhouse’s argument is his identification of
a secondary effect by which tax cuts have goosed incomes at the
top while holding them down at the bottom. He cites research
suggesting that the high tax rates paid by the rich in the mid-20th century gave them little reason to spend time and energy
trying to get even richer. If a big raise would be accompanied
by a big tax bill, why bother fighting for a raise?  Thus, declining tax rates unleashed the desire of the
wealthy to seek a bigger piece of the pie. As it turned out,
they had quite a lot of power to get themselves a better deal.
They had political power in Washington and state capitals, of
course, but also power in the workplace. Since 1979,  chief
executive officer pay  has gone from 29 times what the average
worker is paid to 228 times what the average worker is paid.
Much of that increase is zero-sum: Income that once might have
gone to workers is now diverted to the C-suite, because
executives have more bargaining power. And with private-sector
unions wasting away, that power increases every day.  Mitigation Theory  Consequently, Fieldhouse concludes that higher taxes on the
rich may do more to curb inequality than many realize. First,
higher taxes would reduce inequality directly through
redistribution. Second, they would lessen it indirectly by
discouraging the rich from making great efforts to become even
richer. If Fieldhouse is right, then the fatalists are wrong:
Pretax inequality can be mitigated by tax policy.  There’s something to this, but ultimately I think
Fieldhouse gives the tax code too much credit. Changes he
attributed to the tax code are really rooted in political
culture. Taxes on the wealthy didn’t lower themselves, after
all. Wealthy Americans fought to bring them down. And now that
they’ve grown used to those low taxes and high incomes, they
will fight to keep them.  Toward the end of the 2012 presidential campaign,  Mitt Romney ’s candidacy was powered in part by a plutocratic revolt
against Democratic plans to let the top marginal rate revert to
39.6 percent. The wealthy wouldn’t meet a truly sharp increase
in the top income tax rate with a shrug and a renewed
disinterest in their wages. If anything, it would increase their
class solidarity and political mobilization.  Yet the fatalist and redistributionist camps also give the
government too little credit -- and too little blame -- for
inequality. Both cleanly divide the issue in half: On one side
is the way the economy distributes income, on the other the way
the government redistributes it. But this misses the space
between: the way the government itself changes the economy.  This drives Dean Baker crazy. “Federal government spending
averages roughly 20 percent of GDP,” the dyspeptic  Washington 
economist  writes  in “The End of Loser Liberalism: Making Markets
Progressive.” And that’s just the beginning. “Adding in state
and local government spending gets us a bit over 30 percent.
This means that all levels of government spending account for
less than one-third of the economy. If this is the exclusive
realm for political debate, and we ignore the way in which the
government structures the larger economy, then we have given up
two-thirds of the game,” he writes.  Wider Appeal  It’s a shame that Baker frames his book as advice for
progressives because his argument should also appeal to
conservatives. Who the government taxes and how it spends that
money, Baker argues, doesn’t begin to describe the myriad ways
in which the government shapes the economy. The Federal
Reserve’s decision to prioritize low inflation over full
employment, for example, is a government intervention of
staggering importance, even if it’s rarely presented that way.
The same goes for the Treasury Department’s management of the
dollar. The duration of patents matters enormously, as do the
licensing requirements for high-wage jobs, the regulation of
corporate boards and even rules on how much cash banks must keep
on hand.  Baker basically agrees with the fatalists who believe the
economy has changed in ways that have exacerbated inequality,
and he even agrees that changes to the tax code won’t suffice to
remedy it. Where he parts with both fatalists and
redistributionists is in his belief that government policies
have hastened those divisive economic changes, and that a
different set of government interventions has the potential to
counteract them, creating a more equal economy.  Baker’s insight is bracing, though his book doesn’t follow
through on it as comprehensively as I’d like. Still, it suggests
the right starting point for a smarter debate over what has
caused inequality and what can be done about it. Washington
argues a great deal over taxes and spending, and far less over
the way government sets the rules for the economy and for those
who benefit most from it.  “This is sort of like playing football without knowing that
the way to score points is to get the ball into the other team’s
end zone,” Baker writes. “It’s hard to win when you don’t know
how the game is played.”  (Ezra Klein is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer on this article:
Ezra Klein in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 