-- Who Created the IPhone, Apple or the Government?
-- B y   M a r k   B u c h a n a n
-- 2013-06-19T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/who-created-the-iphone-apple-or-the-government-.html
Albert Einstein  famously held the
view that “imagination is more important than knowledge.” What
we think we know can limit what we see as possible. The greatest
thinkers challenge what everyone believes to be obvious. They
allow us to see the world anew.  We may be primed for another lesson, this time in
economics. It has been “obvious” to most people over the past 30
years that the creative dynamism of the free market, the energy
of private individuals pursuing their own dreams, is the best
driver of economic innovation. The global economy carries the
indelible imprint of the brilliant visionaries who created
companies such as Microsoft Corp., Apple Inc. and Google Inc.
Innovation is a private affair, best left free of the typically
sluggish and wasteful interference of government.  What seems so obvious might also be completely wrong. This
is the point that economist Mariana Mazzucato makes in her
recent  book , “The Entrepreneurial State: Debunking Private vs.
Public Sector Myths.”  Think of the Internet, biotechnology, electronics,
photonics, materials science and nanotechnology -- all the
crucial technologies of our age. Go back further to oil, rail,
the airlines and nuclear energy. None of these would be as
developed as they are, and some would hardly exist, without the
founding vision and directed action of government agencies.  Long-Term Vision  Consider the Internet and the World Wide Web, energized by
competition among behemoths such as Google and Facebook Inc. and
countless garage-style startups such as Clarity and Avaaz. This
frontier of market freedom was brought into existence by
government pursuing a long-term vision that no company would
have attempted. People at the  Defense Advanced Research Projects
Agency  had the imagination to support a consortium of
universities and research firms to build a network of computers
able to exchange information, and undertook the sustained effort
required to make it happen.  What about Google? The genius and inspiration of the
company’s founders,  Sergey Brin  and  Larry Page , played a big
role in making it happen. So did funding from the U.S. National
Science Foundation, which let the two computer scientists
develop the algorithm that so transformed Web search and
propelled the company ahead. Forward-thinking leaders at the
foundation offered funding in precisely this area because they
thought it would pave the way to a world of new technologies.  Even Apple, normally viewed as the singular creation of the
lone genius of  Steve Jobs , owes much to government. Mazzucato
points out that Apple received crucial finance in its early
years from the U.S. government’s small-business investment
program. Every one of the most important technologies in Apple’s
smart products, including the iPhone and iPad, were developed
elsewhere and largely thanks to state funding.  The picture is similar throughout the economy. Of the
roughly 100 most important innovations from 1971 to 2006, as
identified by R&D Magazine, almost 90 percent depended heavily
on federal research support, according to Mazzucato. And
whatever big pharmaceutical companies might say about the risks
they take and amounts they spend to develop new drugs, most of
the really innovative discoveries the past few decades have come
from publicly funded laboratories.  The point isn’t that Jobs wasn’t a genius, or that the
energy and creativity of the private sector aren’t necessary.
It’s that governments have had a huge and widely unappreciated
influence on our economic well-being. They can often achieve
things the private sector cannot, creating new technologies and
entirely new markets.  It’s a point that  John Maynard Keynes  made long ago: “The
important thing for Government,” he observed, “is not to do
things which individuals are doing already, and to do them a
little better or a little worse; but to do those things which at
present are not done at all.”  White Elephants  Governments do have flaws. They are prone to pursue white-elephant projects and to suffer from stifling bureaucracy. These
are problems to battle against, while benefiting from the best
things government can do.  Mazzucato warns that the perception of government impotence
in innovation can be self-fulfilling. Uncertainty in policy is a
recipe for failure. Government is most effective when it acts
with confidence, as evidenced in places such as China and
 Brazil , which have successfully developed technologies for the
anticipated “green revolution” with the help of state aid.  As long as we remain under the spell of myths and don’t
recognize the potential for visionary government action to help
lead society forward -- as it has in the past -- we are likely
to suffer. Viewed correctly, government should be an invaluable
partner of the private sector, one that is willing and able to
take the crucial risks that business won’t.  (Mark Buchanan, a theoretical physicist and the author of
“The Social Atom: Why the Rich Get Richer, Cheaters Get Caught
and Your Neighbor Usually Looks Like You,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Mark Buchanan  at  buchanan.mark@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at   mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net  