-- Why Government Spending Does Nothing for Jobs
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2013-06-19T22:00:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/why-government-spending-does-nothing-for-jobs.html
While most economists and policy
makers are focusing on the International Monetary Fund’s
epiphany on the perils of  austerity , some researchers at the IMF
have offered another take on the fiscal-policy debate. They
found that less is more, even when it comes to the size and
scope of government.  Such findings are hardly new. But you would never know it
from the debate being waged on the op-ed pages of daily
newspapers and on columnists’ blogs. The impression one gets
from reading them is that fiscal austerity is ill-advised while
more  government spending  -- timely, targeted and temporary -- is
a costless way to boost economic growth.  The authors of a June 2013  IMF working paper , “Does
Public-Sector Employment Fully Crowd Out Private-Sector
Employment?,” answer in the affirmative. After examining data
from both developing and advanced economies, Alberto Behar and
Junghwan Mok find that a public-sector job comes at the expense
of a private-sector job. In other words, paying someone to dig
holes and fill them up doesn’t reduce  unemployment .  Today’s proponents of increased government spending aren’t
necessarily arguing for hiring more  government workers , whose
ranks have been diminished over the last four years. They do
want the federal government to provide some extra oomph to an
economy that is barely eking out 2 percent growth four years
after the recession ended.  Another dose of stimulus is both unnecessary and
counterproductive in the medium and long term. There seems to be
widespread  agreement  -- among academics and economists at the
IMF,  European Central Bank ,  World Bank  and Organization for
Economic Co-operation and Development, if not among the policy
setters themselves -- that government spending has a sizeable
negative impact on growth.  Say What?  What?, you say. That was my reaction, too, before I read
some recent papers from those institutions referenced by Cato
Institute Senior Fellow Daniel Mitchell on his  blog .  “There are lots of studies outlining the reasons
government spending has a negative effect on growth,” he said
in a telephone interview.  For example, an overpaid civil service distorts the wage
structure and has to be financed by higher taxes, he said. Or it
bids up the price of labor in the private sector, which makes
employers reluctant to hire.  Not all government spending is created equal. An  ECB
working paper  found that public wages, interest payments,
subsidies and government consumption had a negative effect on
growth, while spending on education and health was a positive,
enhancing the quality of the workforce and its productivity.  This shouldn’t be hard to understand. Simple arithmetic
will suffice. If the government wants to spend money, it has
three means at its disposal: taxation, borrowing and inflation.
The third is the province of the  central bank , so let’s deal
with Nos. 1 and 2 first.  If the government takes a dollar from A in taxes to give to
B, even Keynesians can understand that it’s a wash in terms of
aggregate demand. Yes, B may have a higher propensity to
consume, but he also may be in no position to do it because of a
prior  debt binge . Viewed from the supply side -- from the
disincentives they create to work, invest and save -- higher tax
rates are a negative.  What about borrowing from A to give to B? Again, it’s a
wash because A would have done something else with his savings.
Which brings us to what Mitchell says is the crux of the
argument: What is the most efficient way to allocate labor and
capital in an economy?  Anyone who has watched the videos of Internal Revenue
Service employees learning  line dancing  at one of their
taxpayer-funded retreats should get the correct answer on first
try.  Strike Out  That doesn’t mean government spending is never justified.
Even  Milton Friedman  acknowledged that the Great Depression was
one of those cases where it was. He stressed that, in general,
the benefits accrue to the recipients of government largess,
not the economy overall.  It was refreshing to learn that other academics have come
around to the view that in the intermediate and long term, a
larger government inhibits growth. The short run is still up for
grabs. One of the reasons is the way government spending is
accounted for in gross domestic product, according to Veronique de Rugy, a senior fellow at George Mason University’s Mercatus
Center in Arlington, Virginia.  As she explains it, if a private employer hires his
deadbeat nephew and pays him $40,000 a year to do nothing, there
will be no effect on GDP until he produces something.
Alternatively, if the government hires the same deadbeat at the
same salary, that spending will add, dollar for dollar, to GDP.  In the same way, cuts in government spending affect GDP on
paper, even if there is no real-world effect. Often it takes
time, but those resources are reallocated to the private sector,
which uses them more efficiently.  Before you label me heartless, I should add that this
discussion has been confined to the economic impact of
government spending, not its moral obligation to help the truly
needy, on which I am a sap.  Last but not least is inflation, or the creation of more
money by the  Federal Reserve . The Fed can do that on its own. It
doesn’t need to finance new government spending to increase the
money stock. What looks like stimulus from fiscal policy is
really monetary accommodation, Friedman said.  That’s strike three for government spending. It didn’t stop
the IMF from advising the U.S. to adopt a more “gradual and
balanced approach” to fiscal consolidation, including repealing
the automatic spending cuts. Maybe the IMF pooh-bahs should take
a look at the work the staff is producing.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  