-- Why Kerry Wants to Strike Syria
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2013-06-19T15:01:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/why-kerry-wants-to-strike-syria.html
Yesterday, shortly after I posted a
 column  on Secretary of State John Kerry’s push to have the White
House approve U.S. strikes on Syrian airfields -- and how Joint
Chiefs of Staff Chairman Martin Dempsey pushed back strongly
against the idea -- I heard from a number of people who support
Kerry’s stance and think that the Pentagon is being
unnecessarily timid.  (I myself am one of the approximately three columnists in
the U.S. who don’t know exactly what President  Barack Obama 
ought to do in Syria. On the one hand, the Syrian civil war
represents a humanitarian nightmare and an acute strategic
challenge; on the other, I don’t think the U.S. is capable of
mediating a Sunni-Shiite civil war, and so shouldn’t try).  The Kerry camp’s argument breaks down as follows:  1.  Rwanda . The administration can’t sit idly by as the
civil war claims hundreds of victims a day. The official U.S.
position is that we feel very bad about what happened in Rwanda
in 1994, so we shouldn’t let this sort of thing happen again
(Samantha Power, Obama’s nominee for United Nations ambassador,
has popularized the idea that “Never Again,” in practice, has
meant only that, “Never again we will allow the Germans to kill
the Jews in the 1940s.”) It is true that while  Syria  civil war
might not yet possess the characteristics of genocide, the
humanitarian imperative here is profound.  2. For negotiations to work, the regime of Bashar al-Assad
must feel that its existence is threatened. This might be the
most important point, or at least the most immediately relevant
one. Kerry wants upcoming peace talks in Geneva to work. In
order for that to happen, he believes that the playing field in
Syria must be leveled; in recent days, regime forces, which now
include the Iranian proxy Hezbollah, have been swatting back the
rebels with comparative ease. Airstrikes, and other U.S.
measures, would provide the regime with the incentive to sit
down and talk. There is no reason to talk compromise with the
opposition when you are winning. This is true even for people
who aren’t psychopathic mass murderers.  3. Whether we like it or not, we are in a conflict with
 Iran , and our credibility is on the line. Obama seems eager to
exit the Middle East. Most foreign policy experts, up to and
including the secretary of state, believe that there is no
hiding from its problems. The U.S. must play a leadership role
in the Mideast or the vacuum left by its departure will be
filled by radicals, of both the Shiite and Sunni varieties. It
is true, as Dempsey has argued, that there is no exit strategy
for Syria (in part because there’s not much of an entrance
strategy, either), but the U.S. will soon face even bigger
problems in the region if it doesn’t intervene now. Kerry
understands the price of intervention. This is the lesson of
 Iraq . But he has also argued that there is a price to be paid
for nonintervention.  4. We made a promise. President Obama threatened
unspecified, but dire-sounding, action against Assad if he
deployed chemical weapons (or even if he shifted them around).
Assad has both moved chemical weapons and used them. U.S.
intelligence estimates are that 150 people have been killed by
them so far. When Obama made his promise, no one thought that
his reaction to the use of chemical weapons would be: Let’s send
the rebels a bunch of rifles and ammunition. There was a general
expectation of something more serious, and Kerry believes that
the serious consequence of chemical weapons use should be
airstrikes against regime airfields.  5. The Israelis did it, and so can we. Kerry himself, to
the best of my knowledge, hasn’t made this argument to the
generals -- knowing, I assume, that it would, if nothing else,
irritate them like nothing else. But others in the
interventionist camp have raised the issue.  Israel , has struck
at Syrian targets three times recently, using standoff weapons
fired from over the border. Israel thinks that it made its
point: There will be consequences if Syria transfers weapons and
delivery systems to Hezbollah in Lebanon. Dempsey, in the White
House situation room last week, argued that in order to launch
an effective attack on regime targets, the U.S. would have to
first suppress Syria’s air-defense system, which would require
at least 700 sorties. Interventionists tend to believe that the
Pentagon -- and the White House -- are using this an excuse for
inaction.  6. The rebels aren’t the lunatics the Pentagon believes
them to be. The State Department has been working for some time
with the more moderate leaders among the fractured and
disputatious rebel alliance. It believes not only that it can do
business with many of these leaders, but also that by doing
business with them it will strengthen them. Several months ago,
when I ducked across the Jordan-Syria border and met with some
of the rebels, I took note of their long beards, a sign of
religious intensity. The rebels were quick to tell me that they
only grew beards because the more radical Islamists among them
had the best weapons, and would only supply these weapons to
like-minded rebels. In other words, the beards were simply a
marketing tool, not an expression of sincere radicalism. If the
more moderate among the rebels suddenly began receiving heavier
weapons from the Americans, they would be empowered, and the
Islamists marginalized.  One through line you will notice in all of this: a belief,
on the part of Kerry and others, that passivity has a price. The
Pentagon and the president, however, believe that they are being
prudent, not passive.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  jgoldberg50@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 