-- WTI Advances to Nine-Month High as U.S. Stockpiles Drop
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2013-06-19T12:51:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/wti-crude-trades-near-nine-month-high-as-u-s-stockpiles-decline.html
West Texas Intermediate crude traded
near a nine-month high after an industry report showed U.S.
inventories dropped last week.  Futures were little changed after rising as much as 0.6
percent.  Crude stockpiles  fell by 4.3 million barrels in the
week ended June 14, the  American Petroleum Institute  said. An
Energy Information Administration report today may show supplies
shrank by 500,000 barrels, according to a Bloomberg News survey.
Russian President  Vladimir Putin  agreed to sign a statement at
the Group of Eight summit calling for a “transitional
government” in  Syria . The U.S. Federal Reserve will release a
statement and economic forecasts when its meeting ends today.  “The API offered a little more support,”  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at VTB Capital in London, said in an e-mail today. “Geopolitical concerns are also supportive. The
long-running conflict in Syria has little fundamental market
impact, but it is fears for a spillover to neighboring oil
producers that will see jittery Brent trading this summer.”  WTI for July delivery, which expires tomorrow, rose as much
as 57 cents to $99.01 a barrel, the highest intraday price since
Sept. 17. Futures were at $98.48 in electronic trading on the
 New York  Mercantile Exchange as of 1:49 p.m. London time. The
volume of all futures traded was 53 percent above the 100-day
average. Prices climbed 67 cents to $98.44 yesterday. The more-active August contract dropped 1 cent to $98.66.  Brent for August settlement increased 28 cents to $106.30 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark grade was at a premium of $7.61 to WTI. It
was $7.35 yesterday, the narrowest based on closing prices since
January 2011.  Gasoline Supplies  “We’ll be watching closely the EIA numbers to see if there
are any draw-downs,” said  David Lennox , a resource analyst at
Fat Prophets in Sydney. “The longer it takes for a resolution
in Syria, the greater the chance of contagion.”  U.S. gasoline stockpiles increased by 918,000 barrels last
week, the API data showed. The EIA report today may show
supplies increased by 750,000 barrels, according to the  median
estimate  of 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Distillate-fuel
inventories, including heating oil and diesel, dropped by
607,000 barrels, the API data showed.  Putin Isolated  The API collects the information on a voluntary basis from
operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the EIA, the
Energy Department’s statistical arm, for its weekly survey.  Putin was isolated among fellow G-8 leaders, including host
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  and U.S. President  Barack Obama , for backing President Bashar al-Assad. The text of the
statement on Syria called for “a transitional governing body
with full executive powers, formed by mutual consent,” while
stopping short of calling for Assad’s ouster.  A two-day meeting of the U.S. Federal Open Market Committee
ends at 2 p.m. New York time. Fed Chairman  Ben Bernanke  said in
May the central bank could reduce its $85 billion in monthly
bond purchases, known as quantitative easing, if there’s
sustainable improvement in employment.  WTI “will look for some FOMC momentum to attack $100 a
barrel,”  Olivier Jakob , managing director of researcher
Petromatrix GmbH in Zug,  Switzerland , said in a note.  Brent’s advance is stalling after futures failed to breach
a technical-resistance level, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The front-month contract traded yesterday above its
30-day upper Bollinger Band for a second day without settling
above it. This indicator is at around $106.20 a barrel today.
Sell orders tend to be clustered near chart resistance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Lananh Nguyen in  London  at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  