-- WTI Crude Drops a Second Day on Rising Stockpiles, Fed
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2013-06-20T12:35:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/wti-crude-drops-a-second-day-on-rising-stockpiles-fed-easing.html
West Texas Intermediate crude fell
for a second day following slower-than-expected economic data
from  China  and Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  saying the  Federal
Reserve  may start reducing bond purchases later this year.  Futures slid as much as 2.3 percent. A preliminary reading
of China’s Purchasing Manager’s Index for June dropped to 48.3,
compared with the 49.1 median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of 15 economists. The Fed may begin tapering bond
purchases this year and end them in 2014 should the economy
continue to improve, Bernanke said in  Washington . U.S. crude
inventories rose by  313,000 barrels  last week, the Energy
Information Administration said yesterday.  “It’s not surprising that oil is lower when you look at
the rubbish Chinese PMI data from last night,”  Michael Hewson ,
a London-based market analyst for CMC Markets Plc, said by phone
today. “Added to that you have Mr. Bernanke’s stimulus
withdrawal that may affect growth in the U.S., and these two
factors are enough to pull down prices.”  WTI for July delivery, which expires today, dropped as much
as $2.24 to $96 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange. The volume of all futures traded was 134
percent above the 100-day average. Prices fell 20 cents to
$98.24 yesterday. The more actively traded August contract was
down $1.57 at $96.91 as of 1:25 p.m. London time.  Brent for August settlement on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange lost as much as $2.29, or 2.2 percent, to
$103.83 a barrel. The European benchmark grade was at a premium
of $7.33 to WTI, compared with $7.64 yesterday.  China Factories  The preliminary  Purchasing Managers ’ Index for China
released today by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics will be
the lowest since September if confirmed on July 1 in the final
reading. May’s gauge of 49.2 was the first below 50 since
October, signaling contraction.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  left the monthly pace of
bond purchases unchanged at $85 billion, while saying that
“downside risks to the outlook for the economy and the labor
market” have diminished. Policy makers raised their growth
forecasts for next year to a range of 3 percent to 3.5 percent
and reduced their outlook for unemployment.  “The change in policy from the Fed and rising supplies are
weighing on the market,” said  Jonathan Barratt , the chief
executive officer of Barratt’s Bulletin, a commodity newsletter
in Sydney. “The Fed tapering implies that the economy is going
well and that demand will be there. When you look at what
inventories are actually doing, it’s not that good.”  Fuel Supplies  U.S. gasoline inventories climbed by 183,000 barrels in the
week ended June 14, said the EIA, the Energy Department’s
statistical arm. Supplies were projected to gain by 750,000
barrels, according to the median estimate of 12 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Distillate-fuel stockpiles, including
heating oil and diesel, fell by 489,000 barrels, compared with a
forecast 925,000-barrel advance in the survey.  Crude inventories at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point
for WTI contracts and the biggest U.S. oil-storage hub, dropped
by  669,000 barrels  to 48.6 million, the lowest since December,
according to the EIA. Supplies slid for a third week, the
longest run of declines since September.  U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  plans to meet this
weekend with European and Middle Eastern allies to discuss what
weapons to provide Syrian rebels, who face an imminent offensive
by regime troops in Aleppo and the Damascus suburbs.  The meeting, to be held June 22 in Doha, is expected to
include officials from France, the U.K., Italy,  Saudi Arabia ,
 Turkey , Qatar,  Egypt , and Jordan, according to French officials,
who spoke about the meeting with reporters on the condition that
they not be identified.  Brent is falling after futures failed to breach a
technical-resistance level, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The front-month contract traded yesterday above its
30-day upper Bollinger Band for a third day without settling
above it. This indicator is at about $106.20 a barrel today.
Sell orders tend to be clustered near chart resistance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  