-- Yes, Immigration Reform Even Cuts the Deficit
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-06-19T19:08:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-19/yes-immigration-reform-even-cuts-the-deficit.html
Another talking point bites the
dust. Opponents of the comprehensive immigration reform working
its way through the  U.S. Senate  have often  decried  the high cost
of legalizing undocumented immigrants. The working  theory  is
that people who endure low wages and a host of other hardships
for the opportunity to work undercover would opt for government
welfare once they are permitted to work legally.  The  Congressional Budget Office  has a different view. The
nonpartisan CBO’s newly released  analysis  of the immigration law
estimates that it would boost economic growth and cut the
federal deficit by roughly $1 trillion over the next two
decades. The CBO said it would cost about $22 billion to put the
bill in place over the first decade while saving almost $200
billion in that time.  This doesn’t mean the legislation, which would create a
path to citizenship for an estimated 11 million undocumented
immigrants, would be a universal boon. In the first decade,
average wages would decline by 0.1 percent,  according to the
CBO , before rising in the second decade. The reason? The “new
workers would be less skilled and have lower wages, on average,
than the  labor force  under the current law.” In addition, the
CBO projects that unemployment would be “slightly higher for
several years.” In sum, owners of capital would benefit from
legalization, while low-skilled laborers might be slightly
harmed in the initial years.  Altogether, however, the bill is clearly a net plus: About
10 million undocumented immigrants would become legal residents
on a path to citizenship, resulting in greater economic growth
and lower deficits.  Naturally, this conclusion has put a strain on the
legislation’s opponents. Republican Senator  Jeff Sessions 
insisted the CBO analysis was the result of “gimmicks”; he’s
sticking to his personal assessment of the law’s effects.  You would think a senator from  Alabama , which damaged its
economy and its prospects for growth by passing a  crude law  that
drove undocumented immigrants out of state, would know better.
After the legislation’s passage, tomatoes  rotted  in north
Alabama fields with no one to pick them. One study, published by
the Center for Business and  Economic Research  at the  University
of Alabama ,  estimated  that the legislation would cost the state
more than $2 billion and tens of thousands of jobs.  There can be no decent immigration reform without a path to
citizenship. A majority of the Senate, including border state
Republicans  John McCain  and Jeff Flake of Arizona, acknowledges
this. Now, another reality has been affirmed, with the CBO
underscoring the findings of other  studies  that have projected
economic benefits to legalization.  Even so, the CBO report is unlikely to change the political
calculations of reform’s opponents. Speaker  John Boehner  said
this week that he would only pass legislation in the House with
a Republican majority. Knowing how important immigration reform
is to the economy, to the nation and to the future of the
 Republican Party , we trust the Republican leader has a plan.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 