-- A Push for ETFs in 401(k) Plans
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2012-03-05T15:41:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/a-push-for-etfs-in-401-k-plans.html
     While individual investors embrace exchange-traded
funds, most 401(k)s savings plans give them the cold shoulder.
Neil Plein, vice president of  Portland  (Ore.)-based Invest n
Retire LLC, is on a mission to change that. Invest n Retire
was awarded a patent last November for technology it developed
to offer and trade ETFs in retirement plans. Bloomberg News's
Margaret Collins spoke with Plein about the appeal of ETFs in
401(k)s. What follows is an edited transcript of their
conversation.  Q. How prevalent are ETFs in 401(k)s now?  A. Exchange-traded funds make up a little under 1 percent
of total assets in defined contributions plans in the U.S. The
biggest issue is that you have systems, primarily
record-keeping systems, that were designed for mutual funds
with end-of-day pricing, among other things. When you have an
ETF, you have an investment vehicle that trades intra-day, not
end-of-day. The technology has needed to catch up to make ETFs
available in retirement plans.  Q. What's the argument for having ETFs in retirement
plans?  A. There is the cost-savings element. You have actively
managed mutual funds that are not just expensive but that can
have exceptionally high turnover ratios -- costs of trading
ETFs don't have.  I prefer to have in 401(k) plans ETFs that have very
small bid-ask spreads [the gap between the price at which
investors can buy or sell the security]. When you're buying or
selling or rebalancing portfolios, every basis point counts.
That's why liquidity counts. We want ETFs with lots of
liquidity that don't utilize any derivatives or aren't
levered, so that they're easy to trade and will follow
mainstream indexes.  Q. ETFs have come under fire in the past year by
people, including regulators, who wonder whether they are
driving some of the volatility in the market. What's your
response to that?  A. I don't buy the concept of them having an effect on
volatility. ETFs are still a drop in the bucket of daily
trading volume. A lot of times people get exchange-traded
notes mixed up with exchange-traded funds. [Exchange-traded
notes, which are unsecured bank debt, are backed by their
issuer's credit, unlike ETFs, which hold assets.] I'm not
particularly fond of ETNs. I certainly don't think they have a
place in retirement plans.  Q. What are the cons of adding ETFs into 401(k) plans?  A. The only negative I've seen personally is that it's a
new idea. When you're talking about 401(k) plans and plan
sponsors, this is a group that can sometimes be reluctant to
go with new ideas like this.  Q. How did you start working on the issue of ETFs in
401(k)s?  A. I went to work for a big brokerage firm in January of
2010. I was a big proponent of ETFs and nearly lost my job
because I was working on the 401(k) team there and suggested
we start offering all-ETF plans. I just thought it was a
better way to go than using expensive mutual funds for the
plans we were working with.  Q. Does your company have ETFs in its  retirement plan ?  A. We have this equation that we advocate to help people
build adequate retirement funds. We call it the three C's --
cost, compounding and contributions. Our own 401(k) is all
ETFs. We use a Vanguard S&P 500 ETF and have the iShares
Barclays Aggregate Bond Fund, for example.  To contact the reporter on this story: Margaret Collins
at  mcollins45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Suzanne
Woolley at  swoolley2@bloomberg.net 
