-- After the U.S. Election, a Glimmer of Fiscal Hope: Simon Johnson
-- B y   S i m o n   J o h n s o n
-- 2012-03-05T00:01:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/after-the-u-s-election-a-glimmer-of-fiscal-hope-simon-johnson.html
The conventional wisdom says the
U.S. is doomed, fiscally speaking. In most economic forecasts,
annual budget deficits stretch as far as the eye can see.  The authoritative Congressional Budget Office projects
accumulated  U.S. government debt , as a percentage of annual
economic output, to rise for the next few decades and to
approach or exceed 100 percent, the level that got  Europe  into
trouble. And then it truly explodes.  Under what the CBO calls its “ alternative fiscal scenario ,”
which is Washington-speak for what it thinks is likely to
happen, “Debt as a share of GDP would exceed its historical peak
of 109 percent by 2023 and would approach 190 percent in 2035.”
The annual deficit in 2075 is  projected  to be 20.7 percent of
gross domestic product. CBO projects this year’s deficit to be 7
percent of GDP, by comparison. Responsible economic opinion is
crying out: We are on an unsustainable path.  CBO Director  Douglas Elmendorf ’s recent  presentation  to
Harvard University economic students should be read as an
emotional plea for the return of political sanity. You should
share it with your children. Yet even leading Republican
politicians who claim to be fiscally responsible are proposing
budget plans that would significantly increase the deficit and
national debt.  Republican Plans  A  report  by the fiscal watchdog group Committee for a
Responsible Federal Budget, called “Primary Numbers: The GOP
Candidates and The National Debt,” is also a must-read. It
contains one  graphic  summarizing all you need to know: Federal
debt held by the public in 2021 would be about 90 percent under
budget plans by Republican presidential candidates  Ron Paul  and
 Mitt Romney . Debt would exceed 100 percent under  Rick Santorum 
and 120 percent under  Newt Gingrich . If President  Barack Obama 
is campaigning on a platform of bringing public debt rapidly
under control, I haven’t noticed.  Still, there are grounds for fiscal optimism, even
considering what is politically feasible. The Bush-era tax cuts
expire at the end of this year. Extending all of them would
increase the 2021 deficit by nearly 3 percent of GDP. Allowing
them to lapse, then, would be a big fiscal adjustment in the
right direction.  Extending the tax cuts requires the House, Senate and White
House to agree. Such cooperation hasn’t exactly been a hallmark
of  Washington  for several years. If just one side of that
triangle demurs, the tax cuts automatically expire.  The main case for extending the tax cuts is the effect on
the economy. In a financial crisis or a deep recession, it isn’t
a good idea to compound the problem with a big fiscal
contraction. The consensus is that the  U.S. economy  is still too
weak to handle a major tax increase.  Of course, nothing will happen to the tax cuts until after
the presidential election. But what will be the mainstream view
of the economy by the end of 2012 or early 2013? (The tax cuts
expire at the end of this calendar year, but the bulk of them
are income taxes that would apply to 2013 earnings. Lawmakers
could easily postpone a decision several months into next year.)  Most economic data indicate that the recovery is picking up
pace. Housing prices remain weak, but the employment picture is
unambiguously improving. Gold bugs, who buy the metal because
they believe runaway inflation is around the corner, were jolted
last week when Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  implied
in testimony to Congress that further monetary stimulus may not
be forthcoming. That means inflation risks may not be so high.
The year’s best economic forecaster could prove to be  Clint Eastwood . The American economy is a productivity- and job-
creation machine, he said, and has been for over 200 years
“ because that’s what we do .”  Changing Dynamic  If the economy is stronger at the end of 2012, the
political dynamic around the tax cuts will change. The House may
still be controlled by the Republicans. The Senate will probably
still be finely balanced between the two parties. And Obama
could well be re-elected. The president could threaten to veto
any extension of the entire Bush tax-cut package while also
proposing to keep the cuts that benefit lower-income Americans.  Personally, I would not extend any of those tax cuts and
prefer another extension of the temporary payroll tax cut. As
 Peter Orszag  has proposed, I would also  phase out  the payroll
tax cut as employment returns to more normal levels relative to
the population.  Either way, Republicans would be faced with a dilemma: If
they reject Obama’s proposed tax cut because it wouldn’t extend
all of the Bush package, they would be responsible for
increasing taxes on millions of people. This wouldn’t sit well
with their political philosophy. The recent agreement to extend
the  temporary payroll tax cut  foreshadows how Republicans might
end up on the issue -- protesting loudly but ultimately agreeing
to the president’s offer.  A dramatic resolution of the national debate over the
proper size of government and how to pay for it isn’t likely
anytime soon. The argument has existed since the founding of the
republic, though it has grown more intense in recent years. Yet
America also has a long tradition of political pragmatism that,
time and again, has kept the U.S. fiscal house in order.  It’s hard to predict the exact contours of a deal. Letting
most of the Bush tax cuts expire wouldn’t solve the entire
problem. But such an outcome after the elections in November
could change the game by taking talk of an impending fiscal
crisis off the table.  ( Simon Johnson , a professor at the  MIT Sloan School of
Management  as well as a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute
for International Economics, is co-author of the forthcoming
book, “White House Burning: The Founding Fathers, Our National
Debt, and Why It Matters to You.” The opinions expressed are his
own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Simon Johnson at  sjohnson@mit.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Paula Dwyer  at  pdwyer11@bloomberg.net  