-- AIG Gains Buyback Flexibility With AIA Sale, Bernstein Sa
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-03-06T15:13:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/aig-gains-flexibility-for-buyback-with-sale-of-aia-stock-bernstein-says.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
the bailed-out insurer, may have more flexibility to buy back
its stock from the U.S. government after divesting holdings of
 AIA Group Ltd. (1299) , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. said.  AIG sold 1.72 billion shares of AIA, a Hong Kong-based life
insurer, for HK$27.15 ($3.50) apiece and expects to take in
about $6 billion, according to a statement from the seller. The
proceeds will be used to lower obligations to the U.S. Treasury
Department that are backed by AIG’s stake in the Asian insurer
and other collateral.  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche , 67, is seeking to
decrease government ownership as he works to improve AIG’s
return on equity after its bailout diluted the stake of private
investors. The U.S. has the right to compel the insurer to sell
assets if it doesn’t retire some obligations to the government
by May 2013. AIG had  $8.4 billion  outstanding on special purpose
vehicles backed by AIA shares and other assets as of Dec. 31.  AIG may have been “saving excess capital to meet that
demand in the payoff scenario, if they had to,” Josh Stirling,
an analyst with Bernstein, said yesterday in a phone interview.
Raising cash from selling AIA stock means AIG “might actually
be able to buy back shares, after all, from the government.”  AIG had $14 billion in liquidity at the parent-company
level at the end of 2011, according to a regulatory filing. Mark Herr, a spokesman for the New York-based company, and the
Treasury’s  Matthew Anderson  declined to comment.  Government’s Stake  A buyback may take place alongside a Treasury share sale,
said Stirling. The government is seeking to reduce its AIG
holdings at a profit after selling 200 million shares in a
public offering in May for $29 apiece. The U.S. hasn’t said how
many offerings may be needed to get rid of its stake.  “Chipping away at it kind of makes sense, as opposed to
telegraphing it for three months and then having everybody sell
against the stock,” said Stirling, who has a  “market perform” 
rating on the insurer.  The government needs to average at least $28.72 a share to
recoup its investment. AIG closed above that price on Feb. 28
for the first time since July. The insurer fell 2.3 percent to
$29.68 at 9:34 a.m. in New York.  AIG’s board authorized a $1 billion buyback in November. As
of Dec. 31, the company had used $70 million to repurchase
shares. Chief Financial Officer David Herzog said the company
expected to complete the buyback in the “foreseeable future”
on a Feb. 24 earnings call with analysts. The U.S. still holds a
77 percent stake in AIG.  AIA Shares  The insurer still holds about 19 percent of AIA after the
stock sale. AIG is prohibited from selling that stake until
Sept. 4, according to the statement.  AIA  plunged  8.4 percent to HK$26.75 in  Hong Kong  today, the
most since September 22, as the shares were sold at the lower
end of a target range and 7 percent below the closing price on
March 2. Trading was suspended yesterday as the deal priced.  Jeffrey Hurd and Jay Wintrob, two AIG-nominated non-
executive directors, will resign from AIA’s board once the
placement is completed, since the U.S. insurer will no longer
hold a controlling stake, the Hong Kong-based company said in a
separate statement.  AIG sold about two-thirds of AIA in a 2010 initial public
offering to raise money to repay its bailout. The 2008 rescue,
which swelled to $182.3 billion, was revised at least four times
to extend more credit and lower the interest charged.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  