-- All Nippon May Expand Lufthansa Venture as Tie-Ups Double Narita Transfers
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2012-03-06T10:50:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/all-nippon-may-expand-lufthansa-venture-as-tie-ups-boost-traffic.html
All Nippon Airways Co. (9202)  may expand a
venture with  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  after greater cooperation
with partners helped the Japanese carrier double transfer
passengers at its main international hub.  All Nippon may start tie-ups with Lufthansa units Swiss
International Air Lines AG, Austrian Airlines AG and Brussels
Airlines NV, ANA President Shinichiro Ito said in a March 2
interview. The Tokyo-based airline began the Lufthansa venture
in October following the start of a similar accord with  United
Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  in April 2011.  “We’ve had a big boost in passengers flying to Narita
airport and changing planes” because of the two pacts, Ito said
in Tokyo. Widening the Lufthansa agreement “is definitely a
possibility,” he said.  The carrier, the only operator of  Boeing Co. (BA)  787s, may also
start flights to Moscow using the aircraft, as it expands
international operations, improves its frequent flier program
and updates lounges to win more long-haul and business travelers,
Ito said. The carrier is focusing on these markets as new budget
airlines threaten to lure passengers on domestic and short-haul
international routes.  “About half of Japanese flying abroad use non-Japanese
airlines, so there is a lot of room for ANA to expand its
international business,” Seigo Ando, a Tokyo-based senior
analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, said by telephone. “Moscow is a
good destination, as there are many potential passengers related
to automakers and other kinds of companies going there from
 Japan  for business.”  Peach, Jetstar  ANA is backing two of the new low-cost carriers in Japan --
 Peach Aviation Ltd. , which began flights last week, and AirAsia
Japan Co., which will start services in August. The two may
generate annual revenue of as much as 200 billion yen within
five years, Ito said in an interview published in the Nikkei
newspaper today. Jetstar Japan Co., part-owned by Japan Airlines
Co. and Qantas Airways Ltd., will make its debut in July.  Under the ventures with United and Cologne, Germany-based
Lufthansa, ANA coordinates schedules with its partners, as well
as sharing revenue. The pacts helped boost ANA’s transfers at
Narita Airport to about 100,000 in the fourth quarter of 2011, a
170 percent increase from a year earlier, according to Megumi Tezuka, a spokeswoman.  Narita as Hub  “A lot more passengers are using it as a hub to fly to
 China  and other areas in  Asia ,” Ito said. “It’s not just
business customers, but economy class as well.”  Lufthansa is focusing on fully implementing the bilateral
agreement with ANA by April 1, its spokesman Boris Ogursky said
by phone from  Frankfurt . The agreement allows the possible entry
of the carrier’s affiliate airlines, he said, adding that no
decision has been taken on the matter yet.  ANA expects to boost sales 3.1 percent to 1.4 trillion yen
($17 billion) in the year ending March 31. Profit will probably
drop 14 percent to 20 billion yen amid higher  fuel prices , the
company said on Jan. 31.  The  carrier  rose 0.4 percent to 254 yen in  Tokyo  trading
today. It has risen 18 percent this year compared with a 14
percent gain for the Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  Dreamliner Deliveries  The airline, which received its first Dreamliner in
September, is now flying five of the planes with another due to
arrive this month. Boeing will deliver another 14 in the year
starting April 1. The airline has ordered a total of 55
Dreamliners, 10 more than Japan Air, as it works on a 22 percent
expansion of international flights in the next two years.  ANA plans to use the 787’s greater fuel efficiency to start
services to cities that don’t have enough demand to support
larger planes. These include  Seattle , where flights are due to
start by the end of March 2013, and  San Jose .  “There are lots of places we want to fly the 787,” Ito
said. “It all depends on the pace at which we get the planes.”  The airline has also discussed Boeing’s planned 737 MAX, a
single-aisle aircraft that competes with Airbus SAS’s in-
development A320neo, Ito said. The carrier suggested that the
new plane be designed to hold air-cargo containers, he said.  “When we’re flying the plane domestically we can cope with
it not being able to carry containers,” he said. “When we fly
it overseas though, we want to be able to carry cargo.”  The airline, which operates 56 Boeing 737s, isn’t looking
to buy more narrow-body planes at present, Ito said. The carrier
has outstanding orders for 10 more of the current variant of the
737s, according to Boeing’s website.  Boeing is planning to start deliveries of the 737 MAX, an
upgrade of its most widely flown jet, in 2017.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  