-- AmEx Transfers Didn’t Aid Hezbollah in Attacks, Court Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-03-05T21:54:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/american-express-not-liable-for-hezbollah-attacks-court-says.html
American Express Bank Ltd. isn’t
liable for Hezbollah rockets attacks on  Israel  in 2006 because
of financial transactions, an appeals court ruled, affirming a
lower court’s dismissal of a suit brought by families of U.S.,
Israeli and Canadian victims.  The federal appeals court in  New York  today affirmed U.S.
District Judge George Daniels’s 2010 dismissal of a negligence
claim against American Express. The plaintiffs “failed
plausibly to allege that AmEx’s conduct was the proximate cause
of the plaintiffs’ injuries,” the appeals court said.  The victims and family members alleged that New York-based
American Express and Lebanese Canadian Bank helped the terrorist
group attack targets in northern Israel in July and August 2006
by handling wire transfers of millions of U.S. dollars.  The appeals court said it may later review claims of
personal jurisdiction against Lebanese Canadian Bank, a Beirut-
based lender that merged with Societe Generale Lebanon last
year. Daniels dismissed the claims saying he didn’t have
jurisdiction.  The plaintiffs alleged that Lebanese Canadian Bank, which
had no branches, offices or employees in the U.S., “knowingly
maintained” bank accounts of alleged Hezbollah affiliates.  The  appeals court said  it will seek a determination from
the New York Court of Appeals, the state’s highest court, on
whether the plaintiffs’ claims for negligence and breach of duty
can be applied to a foreign bank’s maintenance of correspondence
under New York law.  U.S. High Court  The U.S. appeals court is awaiting a U.S.  Supreme Court 
ruling in a case in which  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  argues it can’t
be sued by Nigerians seeking damages from torture and murders
committed by their government in the early 1990s.  The Supreme Court heard arguments in the case, Kiobel v.
Shell Petroleum, on Feb. 28. A decision may be issued this year.  “Should the Supreme Court reverse our decision in Kiobel,
and the Court of Appeals indicate that we have personal
jurisdiction over the Lebanese Canadian Bank in this case, the
Alien Tort statute claims will likely require further
proceedings in the district court,” the panel of appeals judges
ruled today.  “We will therefore await decision on one or both of those
courts before reaching a conclusion.”  Money-Laundering Suit  The U.S. government also sued the bank for laundering money
for Hezbollah in December 2011 after the U.S. Treasury
Department identified the bank as a “financial institution of
primary money laundering concern.” That case is pending in
federal court in New York.  Marina Norville, a spokeswoman for American Express,
declined to comment on the ruling, saying it was the company’s
policy not to comment on litigation.  American Express “enabled, facilitated, supported and
assisted Hezbollah to carry out the acts of terrorism which
harmed the plaintiffs,” according to a complaint filed July 11
in New York state Supreme Court in  Manhattan .  The case is Licci v. Lebanese Canadian Bank, 10-1306, 2nd
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (New York). The U.S. Supreme Court
case is Kiobel v. Royal Dutch Petroleum Co., 10-1491, U.S.
Supreme Court ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York Supreme Court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 