-- ANC Studies Proposals to Spread Wealth to South Africa’s Black Majority
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-03-05T14:09:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/anc-studies-proposals-to-spread-wealth-to-south-africa-s-black-majority.html
South Africa ’s ruling  African
National Congress  is studying proposals to impose a resource-
rent tax on mining operations, reduce royalties and gear
policies toward creating jobs.  The ANC unveiled eight draft policy documents aimed at
tackling one of the highest levels of income inequality and
reducing a 24 percent  unemployment  rate that will be discussed
at party conferences in June and December.  “Having concluded our first transition with its focus in
the main on political democratization, we need a vision that
must focus on the social and economic transformation of South
Africa over the next 30 to 50 years,”  Jeff Radebe , the ANC’s
policy head, told reporters in Johannesburg today.  The ANC led the struggle against white-minority rule and
has governed Africa’s biggest economy since all-race elections
in 1994. South Africa is the world’s biggest producer of
platinum, chrome and manganese.  Anglo American Plc (AAL) ,  Xstrata Plc (XTA) ,
 Rio Tinto Group Plc (RIO)  and  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  have operations in the
country.  The ANC adopted an independent study which proposed the
resource-rent tax and will discuss a modified version of it at
its June policy conference.  Wealth Fund  The 50 percent tax, which would be triggered by a set
return on investment, would be put into a sovereign wealth fund
to pay for development of mining and infrastructure as well as
ease the strengthening of the rand during commodity booms,
according to the ANC’s policy document on state intervention in
mining. This would generate about 40 billion rand ($5.3 billion)
in annual state revenue at current prices, it said.  The ANC proposed measures such as reducing mining royalties
to 1 percent and putting a proposed carbon tax on hold to
protect mining operations and ensure jobs aren’t lost. A newly
created minerals commission would also ensure that mining rights
are awarded to operations that would create the most jobs, it
said.  South  Africa ’s Constitution may have to be amended to make
the necessary policy changes, the ANC said. While the party
controls just less than two-thirds of seats in Parliament needed
to alter the constitution, it may be able to secure the required
backing from small opposition parties.  ‘Involve The Majority’  “This economy must involve and embrace the majority of the
people of this country,” Tony Yengeni, head of the ANC’s
political committee, told reporters.  The push for a policy shift has been led by the ANC’s Youth
League, which wants the government to seize mines, banks and
land. Several senior government ministers have rejected
nationalization, and on Feb. 29 the ANC expelled the league’s
leader,  Julius Malema , from its ranks.  The independent study rejected the idea of nationalizing
South Africa’s mines, saying it would cost almost 1 trillion
rand, more than the national government’s annual budget.  A state mining company should consolidate all state-owned
mining assets and pool them with those owned by unions to boost
their voting power within private mining companies, the ANC
said. The paper suggested forcing companies to ensure that the
state or black South Africans hold 30 percent of their shares.  Steel should be classified as a “strategic mineral,”
ensuring that local sales are priced at “cost plus,” making it
cheaper for manufacturers, the ANC said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 