-- Manchester United Keeps Premier League Pressure on City by Beating Spurs
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-03-05T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/manchester-united-keeps-premier-league-pressure-on-city-by-beating-spurs.html
Ashley Young  scored twice as
 Manchester United  beat Tottenham 3-1 to move to within two
points of Manchester City atop English soccer’s Premier League.  Wayne Rooney  headed United in front at White Hart Lane
yesterday after Spurs’s Emmanuel Adebayor had a goal disallowed
for handball. Young scored with a far-post volley in the 60th
minute and made it 3-0 with a curling shot from the edge of the
area nine minutes later.  Jermain Defoe  got Tottenham’s goal.  “We had a bit of luck, and we scored right on half time
with our first shot on goal,” United manager  Alex Ferguson  told
 Sky Sports . “They were probably sat in the dressing room
wondering how they were 1-0 down because they’d played ever so
well. It was a massive result.”  Defending champion United has 64 points to City’s 66, while
Spurs stayed in third place with 53 points, four ahead of
Arsenal. Newcastle remains sixth after drawing 1-1 at home with
10-man Sunderland. Pavel Pogrebnyak’s hat trick gave Fulham a 5-
0 win against Wolverhampton in yesterday’s other game.  City had taken a five-point lead two days ago ahead of the
matchup of its nearest rivals by beating Bolton Wanderers 2-0
and United closed the gap once more.  Five minutes after Adebayor’s disallowed effort, Rooney
headed in Young’s corner kick just before the break. Young
doubled United’s lead on the hour when he volleyed through a
crowd of players and made it 3-0 with a precise finish from
distance beyond goalkeeper  Brad Friedel . Defoe got Spurs’s goal
with a long-distance shot with three minutes left.  “We’ve played all the big teams since January,” Ferguson
added. “It was a really busy spell and we’ve come through that
and played well in most of the games. We showed a determination
to get the result.”  Nine Yellows  In the northeast derby, Sunderland went ahead in the 24th
minute on a penalty kick from Nicklas Bendtner after the home
team’s Mike Williamson pulled back  Michael Turner . The match,
which featured nine yellow cards, changed with the sending off
of Sunderland’s Stephane Sessegnon in the 57th minute for
elbowing an opponent.  Newcastle controlled the ball for much of the end of the
match and  Shola Ameobi  squeezed his 90th-minute shot past Simon
Mignolet, who had saved a 82nd minute penalty from Demba Ba.  Sunderland captain Lee Cattermole, who was given a yellow
card in the first minute for a foul, was dismissed after the
final whistle for confronting referee Mike Dean.  Fulham Hits Five  In west London, Pogrebnyak scored in his third consecutive
game since joining Fulham on loan and  Clint Dempsey  got two
goals to drop Wolves into the relegation zone.  The Russian striker scored in the 36th, 44th and 61st
minutes and Dempsey added two second-half strikes to give Fulham
three straight league wins for the first time since 2008.  “After five goals in the three games, I have to say he is
a pretty good signing for us,” Fulham manager  Martin Jol  said
of Pogrebnyak, who will be at Fulham until the end of the
season, when his contract with Stuttgart expires.  It was Wolverhampton’s first loss since Terry Connor took
over as interim coach following Mick McCarthy’s firing last
month. The team, which came back from two goals down to tie
Newcastle 2-2 in Connors’s first match, slipped into the bottom
three on goal difference as Blackburn climbed to 17th place.
Blackburn and Wolves meet next weekend.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in  London  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  