-- Angry Birds Boom Spurs U.S. Job Revival on Mobile Demand
-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 2012-03-05T21:35:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/angry-birds-boom-spurs-u-s-employment-revival-on-mobile-software-demand.html
A surge in technology-industry
hiring is helping to spearhead a  jobs-market revival  as demand
swells for computer-software applications and data.  Online help-wanted advertising for computer and
mathematical occupations  rose  2.1 percent in February from
January to the second-highest since the Conference Board began
compiling the data in 2005. Vacancies outnumbered job seekers by
more than three to one, according to the New York-based research
group. Postings on tech-career website Dice.com are 12 percent
higher than a year ago, with openings for workers skilled in
mobile applications up more than 100 percent.  “This feels like the beginning of another tech-driven jobs
boom,” said Michael Mandel, chief economic strategist at the
Progressive Policy Institute in  Washington . “The broad
communications sector resisted the downward pull” of the
recession and “is going to be a leader in the expansion.”  Government figures to be released on March 9 will show that
payrolls grew by 210,000 in February, according to the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. If that
estimate proves correct, job growth in the past three months
would total 656,000, compared with 471,000 in the previous three
months. The  unemployment rate  is projected to hold steady at a
three-year low of  8.3 percent .  Growing Confidence  Stocks will benefit from the expanding jobs market and
growing consumer confidence, said  James Paulsen , who helps
oversee more than $330 billion as chief investment strategist in
Minneapolis for Wells Capital Management. He predicted the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index will climb to 1,500 sometime this
year, compared with  1,364.33 (SPX)  at the close today in  New York .  Technology shares are outperforming this year, with the
Vanguard Information-Technology Exchange-Traded Fund, which
includes  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG) , up 15 percent compared with
a  9 percent  rise for the SPDR S&P 500 ETF as of the close in New
York today.  President Barack Obama has seen his standing among voters
improve as the employment picture brightens. His job-approval
rating increased to 53 percent from 44 percent in November,
according to a POLITICO-George Washington University
 Battleground Poll  released Feb. 27.  Big Technology  Even as conditions get better, some big technology
companies are cutting jobs.  International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM) , the world’s largest computer-services provider, fired
more than 1,000 workers in North America last week, according to
an employee advocacy group.  Doug Shelton , a spokesman for the
Armonk, New York-based company, declined to confirm the size of
the reductions.  Smaller businesses, though, are taking on workers as the
so-called app economy blossoms, with more than 500,000 software
programs now written for Apple’s iPhone alone, according to the
Cupertino, California-based company’s website.  Bully! Commercial and Entertainment Media LLC , a Baltimore-
based company that specializes in augmented-reality
applications, has increased its workforce to 21 people from 11
in about the past six months and is looking to hire more, said
Carlson Bull, executive director and founder.  “We’re in demand; I’d like to ride that,” said the 40-
year-old Bull, who added that the company is considering opening
up other offices, including overseas.  Tim Burks, of one-man software-development shop  Radtastical
Inc.  in Palo Alto, California, said he gets two to three calls a
day from recruiters trying to hire him for other businesses. And
“it has gone up lately,” the 45-year-old added.  Employment Spillovers  The app economy now is responsible for about 466,000 jobs
in the U.S., up from zero in 2007 when the iPhone was
introduced, according to a  study  released last month that Mandel
did for TechNet, a Washington-based group of executives that
promotes technology issues. The total includes app-related
positions at companies including  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and employment
spillovers to the rest of the economy.  Apple deserves some credit for the gains, according to Bret Swanson, president of Entropy Economics, a research firm in
Zionsville, Indiana. Despite criticism that the tech company is
building the guts of the iPhone in  China , the product has led to
jobs in the U.S. -- even if they aren’t all necessarily at Apple
-- because “the iPhone launched a new software industry,” he
said.  U.S. Jobs  Apple said on its website that it has created or supported
 514,000 U.S. jobs , including 210,000 tied to the app economy.
The total, in a report for the corporation by Boston-based
consultants Analysis Group, also counts employment at companies
that provide Apple with processors and glass and businesses that
ship its products.  A separate  study  released in January by economists Robert Shapiro and  Kevin Hassett  found that the shift from 2G to 3G
Internet and wireless-network technologies led to the creation
of more than 1.5 million positions from April 2007 to June 2011
in everything from construction to retail.  “This looks like an unusually powerful jobs driver,” said
Shapiro, undersecretary of commerce under President Bill Clinton. “After all, it created 1.5 million jobs at a time when
the economy was losing five million.  “And the transition from 3G to 4G in terms of jobs is more
promising,” added Shapiro, who is now chairman of economic
consultant Sonecon LLC in Washington.  Hassett, director of economic-policy studies at the
American Enterprise Institute in Washington, sees two economic
effects from these advances: “Angry Birds” and “Angry Boss.”  In Constant Touch  The first, named after the game application, refers to the
growing number of developers creating similar software programs,
said Hassett, an economic adviser to Republican Senator John McCain of Arizona during the 2008 presidential campaign. The
second references the ability of bosses to stay in constant
touch with their employees, increasing productivity, profits and
ultimately jobs as money is plowed back into businesses.  Congressional authorization last month for sales of
wireless spectrum “will support massive job creation” by
freeing up airwaves for use by mobile devices, Representative
Fred Upton, a Michigan Republican who heads the Energy and
Commerce Committee, said in an e-mailed statement.  Spending on the wireless network may benefit antenna-
building companies  American Tower Corp. (AMT) ,  Crown Castle
International Corp. (CCI)  and  SBA Communications Corp. (SBAC) ,  Paul Gallant ,
a Washington-based analyst with Guggenheim Partners, said in a
Feb. 15 note.  ‘Very Fast’  Mandel said employment growth in the app economy may be
topping out, albeit at a still “very fast” 45 percent year-
over-year rate.  Tom Silver, senior vice president, North America, for New
York-based  Dice Holdings Inc. (DHX) , agreed that the market for tech
professionals is cooling off.  “The crackle and sizzle of the early recovery is behind
us, but we continue to see strong demand” on the Dice.com job-
posting website, he said.  “We hear a lot about poaching from our customers,” he
added in an e-mail. “The number of calls from recruiters into
certain skill sets, like software engineers, is staggering.”  Where growth seems to be taking off is in the area of so-
called big data, where specialists mine and make sense of the
constantly-expanding information available via the Internet for
companies from Google to  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , Mandel said.  ‘Deep Analytical’ Skills  By 2018, the U.S. will need as many as 490,000 workers with
“deep analytical” skills and an additional 1.5 million data-
savvy managers, whether retrained or hired, according to a
 report  last year by McKinsey Global Institute, the research unit
of consultants McKinsey & Co.  Supply might not be sufficient to fill all the positions,
because “there is a great skills mismatch,” said James Manyika, director in  San Francisco  of the institute. Even so,
big data will lead to “quite phenomenal” productivity gains as
companies make more and better use of the information they have,
he said.  An academic analysis last year of 179 publicly-traded
companies found that those adopting data-driven decision making
were about 5 percent more productive and profitable than their
competitors. The  study  was carried out by Erik Brynjolfsson and
Heekyung Hellen Kim of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
in Cambridge and Lorin M. Hitt of the University of Pennsylvania
in Philadelphia.  Higher Productivity  The effects on productivity will be “as great or greater
than what they were in the 1990s,” Brynjolfsson said. Labor-
force  productivity  grew at an average annual rate of 2.1 percent
during that decade, up from 1.5 percent in the 1980s.  Technology companies are taking notice and looking for ways
to leverage their position through takeovers.  “This year’s technology-deal volume could be bigger than
last year’s and 2007’s,” said Chet Bozdog, global head of
technology investment banking at Charlotte, North Carolina-based
Bank of America Corp.  Industry takeovers in 2007 reached $264.4 billion, the
biggest year since 2000’s record high of $585.2 billion, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Announced mergers and acquisitions
last year totaled almost $200 billion.  Dell Inc. (DELL) , the third-largest maker of personal computers,
last month introduced a new line of servers designed to help
business customers beef up data centers for information storage
and the delivery of software and computing via the Internet.  Data Explosion  Brynjolfsson likened the explosion of data -- and the means
to store and evaluate it -- to the discovery of the microscope.
The microscope allowed scientists to look at a whole new world,
leading to numerous medical breakthroughs. Big data is doing the
same for statisticians and information analysts.  The MIT Center for Digital Business has used Google search
data “to accurately predict housing sales up to three months in
the future for each of the 50 states in the U.S.,” Brynjolfsson
 wrote  on the university’s website.  “Google searchers have even allowed researchers to
accurately predict flu-season trends well before the Center for
Disease Control issued its own reports,” he added.  While big data won’t be “the sponge” that absorbs all
untrained or moderately trained workers without a job, Robert Litan, vice president for Research and Policy at the Ewing
Marion Kauffman Foundation in Kansas City, said he’s
“convinced” that eventually new industries will be born from
it. And they will require workers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Miller in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  