-- Aqualia Starts $15.9 Million ‘Tank to Toilet’ Project in Spain
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-03-05T17:11:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/aqualia-starts-15-9-million-tank-to-toilet-project-in-spain.html
Aqualia Gestion Integral del Agua
SA, a Spanish company supplying waste water services to 30
million people, started work at a 12 million-euro ($15.9
million) project using waste water and algae to generate energy.  The All-Gas project will grow algae using sunlight and
nutrients found in waste-water at a plant in Chiclana, southern
 Spain . The algae will be harvested for transformation into
biofuels, according to a statement from Aqualia and the European
Union, which is backing the project with 7 million euros.  “Today, we are wasting resources and producing useless
sludge,” Frank Rogalla, the project leader at Aqualia, said in
an interview. “Now we will use these resources to produce
biofuel without any leftovers, and having a positive impact.”  The European Union plans to get 10 percent of its transport
energy from biofuels, hydrogen and renewable power by 2020. The
target seeks to help cut the bloc’s emissions 20 percent from
1990 levels. The All-Gas project could generate enough biodiesel
and biomethane for 400 fleet vehicles, according to Aqualia.  The five-year project will start with a prototype facility
during the first two years followed by scaling up to demonstrate
the technology on 10 hectares of algal culture ponds in the
following three years, according to the statement.  “A town of 25,000 people can produce with 10 hectares
worth of land about 1 tonne of biodiesel per day and about 1,500
or so cubic meters of biomethane,” Rogalla said.  Cost Competitive  The technology may be cost competitive with fossil fuels by
about 2015 as the price of oil rises and because the nitrogen
and phosphorus the algae require to grow is freely available in
waste water, Rogalla said.  Biofuels from algae avoid issues associated with growing
crops such as oil palm, sugar cane and canola for biofuel, which
have larger land requirements, according to Aqualia.  Policies promoting the crops, known as “first generation”
biofuels, have been criticized by groups including Friends of
the Earth and ActionAid for diverting land away from growing
food contributing to higher food prices and eradicating forest.  “The opportunity is such that 60 million people, roughly
the U.K. population, would be able to power 1 million vehicles
from just flushing their toilet,” Rogalla said. Aqualia is
developing the project with six other partners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  