-- Stocks Fall as China Reduces Growth Target; Yen Gains, Treasuries Retreat
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-03-05T21:14:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/asia-stocks-decline-as-china-targets-slower-economic-growth-yen-oil-gain.html
Stocks (MXWD)  fell for a second day after
 China  announced the lowest economic growth target since 2004 and
European services and manufacturing output was less than earlier
estimated. The yen climbed, while Treasuries declined.  The S&P 500 lost 0.4 percent to close at 1,364.33 at 4 p.m.
in New York and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  slipped 14.76
points to 12,962.81. The yen strengthened against all 16 most-
traded peers, while China weakened its currency’s daily fixing
by the most since November 2010 and said it may widen its
trading band. Oil was little changed, while copper slid 1.1
percent and natural gas fell 5.2 percent. Ten-year Treasury
yields rose three basis points to  2.005 percent.  China cut the nation’s economic growth target to 7.5
percent from an 8 percent goal in place since 2005, according to
Premier Wen Jiabao’s speech at the National People’s Congress
today. European services and manufacturing output shrank in
February more than earlier estimated, Markit Economics said, and
U.S. factory orders fell for the first time in three months.
Greece’s private creditors decide this week whether to sign off
on the country’s debt restructuring.  “It’s just not an environment that we feel like sticking
our neck out to take on a lot of risk,” Michael Mullaney, who
helps manage $9.5 billion at Fiduciary Trust in  Boston , said in
a telephone interview. “We’ve been scratching our heads a
little bit after the big run-up in equities. We just don’t see a
strong enough global economic background to support where prices
are right now.”  Retreat From High  The  S&P 500 (SPX)  fell for a second day after last week reaching
its  highest level  since 2008. Equities briefly pared losses
after the Institute for Supply Management’s index of non-
manufacturing industries rose to 57.3 in February, topping the
median economist projection for a decline to 56. Commerce
Department data showed orders to U.S. factories decreased in
January by 1 percent, less than the median prediction for a 1.5
percent drop.  Alcoa Inc., Caterpillar Inc. and Bank of America Corp. lost
at least 2 percent to lead declines in the Dow.  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) , the
online-game company that sold shares to the public in December,
and CF Industries Holdings Inc.,  North America ’s largest maker
of nitrogen-based fertilizer , tumbled at least 2.9 percent
after the companies were downgraded.  Corporate profits  that doubled since 2009 have left the  S&P
500   cheaper  than at all 34 peaks since 1989, even as options
traders push the cost of protecting against losses to the
highest in four years relative to the cost of betting on gains.  Valuations  Companies in the benchmark gauge of U.S.  stocks (MXWD)  trade for
 14 times  earnings after advancing 102 percent since March 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg that excludes peaks
occurring within a month of one another. Valuations are lower
than at every 52-week peak since 1989. Traders have pushed the
price of contracts that pay should the S&P 500 drop 20 percent
to the most since 2007 compared with ones betting on a rally of
the same size.  Technology and consumer-discretionary  stocks , which have
led this year’s rally in the S&P 500 along with financials, may
perform worse than other shares as American economic reports
struggle to beat rising forecasts, according to Tobias
Levkovich, chief U.S. equity strategist at Citigroup Inc.  A drop in  Citigroup’s Economic Surprise Index (CESIUSD)  for the U.S.
is one of several concerns for the market in the short-term,
Levkovich said. The index, which measures the extent to which
reports beat or miss forecasts, has fallen to 48.2 from 83.70 on
Feb. 3. Consumer-discretionary and technology shares show some
of the highest correlations to the gauge and “are vulnerable to
a pullback,” the report said.  ‘Dr. Fed;’ ‘Monetary Morphine’  Two-year Treasury yields increased two basis points to 0.30
percent and 30-year rates added four basis points to 3.15
percent today. Federal Reserve Bank of  Dallas  President  Richard
Fisher  said he opposes additional Fed purchases of securities
and urged  Wall Street  to get ready to become less dependent on
monetary easing.  “I would suggest to you that, if the data continue to
improve, however gradually, the markets should begin preparing
themselves for the good Dr. Fed to wean them from their
dependency rather than administer further dosage,” Fisher said
today in the text of a speech in Dallas. Financial markets
“have become hooked on the monetary morphine we provided”
after the 2008 financial crisis, he said.  Foreign Buyers  For all the concern that the $10 trillion market for
Treasuries is dependent on Fed purchases to absorb expanding
supply, the amount held by investors outside the U.S. has grown
even more. Foreigners increased holdings of U.S. government debt
by $1.84 trillion to a record $5 trillion since the Fed began
the first round of Treasury purchases in May 2009, taking their
stake to 60.5 percent of the securities not held by the central
bank, government data show. The Fed added $1.18 trillion during
that period, to $1.65 trillion, or 16.8 percent of the total.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  fell 0.6 percent. Rio Tinto
Group led mining shares lower as copper slid. Salzgitter AG sank
5.4 percent amid uncertainty over the steelmaker’s outlook. BP
Plc advanced 1.6 percent after reaching a $7.8 billion
settlement with businesses and individuals harmed by the Gulf of
Mexico oil spill in 2010.  Russia’s  Micex Index (MICEX)  gained 1.1 percent after  Vladimir
Putin  won a presidential election in an endorsement of his
pledge to continue to privatize state companies and undertake
political reform.  European Bonds  Among European bond markets, rates on Spanish and Italian
10-year debt increased at least two basis points, while
remaining below 5 percent.  Germany ’s 10-year yield added three
basis points to 1.83 percent. The rate on  Greece ’s 10-year debt
fell 56 basis points to 36.54 percent after reaching a record 37
percent on March 2, according to Bloomberg generic yields.  Greece expects bondholders to accept a one-time offer to
write off about 100 billion euros ($140 billion) of Greek debt
and is ready to force them to participate if necessary, Finance
Minister Evangelos Venizelos said.  “This is the best offer,” Venizelos said in a Bloomberg
Television interview with Nicole Itano in  Athens  today. “This
is the best offer because this is the only one, the only
existing offer.”  The Greek government has set a 75 percent participation
rate as a threshold for proceeding with the transaction, in
which investors will forgive 53.5 percent of their principal and
exchange their remaining holdings for new Greek  government bonds 
and notes from the European Financial Stability Facility.  The private investors that declared their participation in
Greece’s debt restructuring hold about 20 percent of the bonds
involved in a swap required for an international bailout. The 12
members of the creditors’ steering committee that said today
they would join in the exchange have debt with a face value of
about 40 billion euros ($53 billion).  The yen climbed 0.3 percent against the euro and advanced
0.5 percent versus the dollar. The euro strengthened 0.2 percent
to $1.3224 as it appreciated against 13 of 16 major peers.  Ag Bets  The S&P GSCI gauge of commodities was little changed as 18
of 24 materials retreated, overshadowing gains in cotton, corn
and heating oil. Cotton jumped the daily maximum allowed of 4
cents a pound, or 4.5 percent, after  India  halted exports. India
is the second-biggest exporter after the U.S.  Speculators increased bets on higher agricultural prices to
a five-month high on mounting concern that a South American
drought will curb supplies of soybeans, corn and sugar at a time
of record global demand. A measure of speculative positions
across 11 farm goods jumped 26 percent to 607,721 futures and
options in the week ended Feb. 28, U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission data show.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  fell 1.4 percent after
closing at a seven-month high last week. The  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  slid 2.3 percent.  Yuan Band  China may “appropriately” widen the yuan’s trading band
to better reflect market supply and demand, Xinhua News Agency
reported, citing People’s Bank of China Governor Zhou Xiaochuan.
Zhou said the yuan has gradually met the requirements to become
more of a floating currency, Xinhua reported. As China improves
its industrial structure and gradually reduces its  trade
surplus , the yuan is now moving “very close” to a “balanced
level,” Xinhua reported in English, citing Zhou.  In today’s trading, the yuan declined to its weakest level
in almost a month. The central bank weakened the currency’s
daily fixing by 0.22 percent, setting it at 6.3121 per dollar.  The Taiex index retreated 1.4 percent after Taiwanese
technology companies reported slumping sales. The BSE India
Sensitive Index fell 1.6 percent before the results of state
elections tomorrow that may be crucial in determining the future
of the ruling Congress Party’s economic agenda.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  