-- Asia Hedge Fund Startups Falter as Biggest Backers Pull Cash
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2012-03-06T06:46:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/asia-hedge-fund-startups-falter-as-biggest-investors-pull-cash.html
Asia-focused hedge funds that were
started with the help of a major backer after the 2008 credit
crisis are shutting down as a shrinking pool of key investors
makes it harder for them to raise capital.  Isometric Investment Advisors Ltd. decided in December to
close after its largest startup investor said it would withdraw
its cash. Black’s Link Capital Ltd. closed after its biggest
investor, a U.S.-based fund of hedge funds, pulled its capital
last year, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  New hedge funds that began trading after the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., including those run by refugees
from investment banks, were expected to lead a revival for the
industry. Instead, managers with more than $5 billion have lured
the bulk of allocations, while a more recent crop of large
startups are diverting investors from smaller competitors.  “Funds of funds have traditionally been early-stage
investors,” said Sam Tabar, head of Asia-Pacific capital
introductions at  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s Merrill Lynch & Co.
unit. “As this sector has retracted somewhat, it has made it
more difficult for some managers to move from startup phase to
critical mass.”  Institutional investors such as pensions, endowments and
government bodies now account for two-thirds of hedge fund
assets, instead of less than one-fifth in 2003, according to a
Deutsche Bank AG hedge fund investor survey released last month.  Bigger is Better?  Assets managed by global fund of hedge funds shrank 21
percent to $629.6 billion at Dec. 31 from their peak in 2007,
according to Chicago-based data provider Hedge Fund Research Inc.
Funds of funds act as middlemen, pooling clients’ cash and
investing it with hedge fund managers they select. They have
lost favor after many lost money in Bernard Madoff’s Ponzi
scheme, raising concern that they didn’t adequately screen
managers, and as investors sought to avoid paying another layer
of fees.  More than half of the fund of fund assets were controlled
by 18 firms, each managing more than $10 billion, a Bank of
America Merrill Lynch report said last month, citing data from
London-based  Hedge Fund Intelligence . This concentration
benefits larger hedge funds, because funds of funds and
institutional investors allocating directly to single managers
usually don’t want to account for more than 10 percent of the
assets of the managers they choose.  Investors allocated more than 70 percent of the $70 billion
new capital they added to the hedge fund industry last year to
managers with more than $5 billion, HFR said in January.  Few Succeed  About 281 Asia-focused hedge funds have been set up since
the end of 2008, 95 percent of which started with less than $100
million, according to Singapore-based data provider  Eurekahedge
Pte . About 74 percent of them have failed to “significantly”
expand assets and 14 percent have since shut, it said. Criteria
used by Eurekahedge to define “significantly” include average
assets growth of at least $5 million a month, or total capital
raising in excess of $100 million.  Asia-focused funds  tracked by Eurekahedge oversaw $124.1
billion at the end of last year, 29 percent less than the peak
in 2007. They lost an average 8.5 percent in 2011,
underperforming the 4.1 percent loss for  hedge funds  globally,
according to Eurekahedge indexes.  “All the smaller funds of funds who used to help and
family wealth who used to help early managers grow are just not
there,” said Richard Johnston, Hong Kong-based Asia head of
 Albourne Partners Ltd. , a consulting firm that advises investors
on hedge funds, private equity and other alternative assets.
“The gap between  seed capital  and getting to a good meaningful
sustainable size of $500 million plus is a hard gap to plug.”  Funds Stuck  Albourne counted 22 Asian startups founded since early 2009
by experienced hedge fund managers and traders with at least $50
million of capital, said Johnston. Of those, four have closed
because they failed to raise capital beyond that provided by
initial investors, he said.  Among funds still operating, five are “stuck at the
launchpad” with less than $200 million and one dominant
investor, five have raised more than $500 million, and four have
more than $1 billion, he added, declining to identify the
companies.  “A lot of the seeders have got their timetables,” said
Johnston. “If you don’t get big, they are probably just happy
to cut their losses and move on.”  Asian hedge funds started last year by both new and
existing managers raised $4.43 billion, the highest amount since
2007, according to a survey by trade journal AsiaHedge. The
number included large startups such as former Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. proprietary trader Morgan Sze’s Hong Kong-based
Azentus Capital Management Ltd., which raised $1.06 billion when
it started trading in April.  FRM, Isometric  Hedge fund liquidations in the third quarter last year
reached the highest level since the final three months of 2008,
according to a report last month from Eurekahedge.  FRM Capital Advisors Ltd.  in  London , which provided startup
capital to Isometric in 2009, notified the Hong Kong-based fund
of its intention to invest its money elsewhere after the
expiration of their two-year agreement, said Isometric’s Chief
Investment Officer Sanjiv Bhatia and Patric de Gentile-Williams,
FRM’s London-based chief operating officer.  FRM accounted for about 80 percent of Isometric’s assets in
December, said Bhatia. The fund, which wagered on Asian
securities affected by mergers and reorganizations, lost 3
percent since its inception in December 2009, said Bhatia, who
was formerly head of Goldman Sachs’s  Asia  equity trading desk
and later ran Deephaven Capital Management LLC’s Asian
investments. De Gentile-Williams declined to comment on
Isometric’s performance.  Black’s Link  Black’s Link shut its fund in April, said the two people
familiar with its operations. It was founded by former employees
of Polygon Investment Partners LLP and managed about $90 million,
with the biggest investor accounting for about 75 percent of
that, said one of the people familiar with the company. The
event-driven fund made a single-digit loss in the year it traded,
said the people, who asked not to be identified because the fund
is private.  Black’s Link’s co-founder Anthony Correa didn’t reply to e-
mails seeking comment. Hani Abuali, another co-founder, declined
to comment.  Pangu Capital in  Hong Kong  returned money in the fourth
quarter and shut its fund 22 months after its inception
following a decision by its main investor to redeem a large
portion of its capital, a person with knowledge of the matter
told Bloomberg in January. Assets of the fund, which traded
stocks, convertible bonds and bonds in Greater China, peaked at
$23 million, with the main investor representing the bulk of it,
said the person.  Man, FrontPoint  Stanley Ku, former Hong Kong head of Fortress Investment
Group LLC shut his own Minerva Macro Fund 10 months after its
start in 2010, people with knowledge of the matter said at the
time. He lost money on investments and its backer RMF Global
Emerging Managers, a unit of  Man (EMG)  Group Plc, pulled its capital  John Foo closed the first of his funds in 2009, said a
person with knowledge of the matter, after Man, amid an internal
reorganization, pulled its $50 million seed money. That
investment had accounted for the bulk of the fund’s peak assets
of $70 million.  He then moved on to run a more than $200 million Asia
event-driven fund for FrontPoint Partners LLC from August 2009,
with half of the money coming from the U.S. firm. The fund was
closed in June after FrontPoint decided to liquidate most of its
funds amid insider trading probes, the person said.  Senrigan Succeeds  Foo is starting another hedge fund under Kingsmead Asset
Management Pte in  Singapore  that will trade stocks affected by
company events such as mergers, privatization and divestiture of
assets in Asia outside of  Japan . He will start the new fund
without a seed investor this time, said a person familiar with
the fund’s assets. Hubert Yong, Kingsmead’s chief operating
officer in Singapore, declined to comment.  Not all startups since 2008 have struggled.  Senrigan
Capital Group Ltd. (SENGRZ)  in Hong Kong, founded by Nick Taylor, former
head of Citadel LLC’s principal investment business in Asia and
 Europe , started trading in 2009 with 67 percent of its initial
$150 million capital from  Blackstone Group LP. (BX)   Senrigan oversaw more than $1 billion at the end of last
year from more than 50 investors, said a person with knowledge
of the matter. Chris Nash, Senrigan’s chief operating officer,
declined to comment.  Dymon Asia Capital, a Singapore-based manager, started its
macro hedge fund in August 2008 with $113 million, the bulk of
which from Tudor Investment Corp., the Greenwich, Connecticut-
based hedge fund company founded by  Paul Tudor Jones . Dymon’s
assets have grown to $2.5 billion from about 90 investors, said
Willy Ballmann, its chief operating officer.  The size and longer-term nature of institutional investors’
allocations restricts the universe of funds they can pick from,
said Max Gottschalk, Hong Kong-based co-founder of  Gottex Fund
Management Holdings Ltd. (GFMN)  The Swiss company, which allocates $7.4
billion to hedge funds, invests about $300 million across 25
Asia-focused managers, he added.  “The tolerance for under-performance is greater for larger
managers than for smaller managers,” Gottschalk said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  