-- ASX Mulls Easier Funding for Miners, Longer Hours
-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 2012-03-05T03:09:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/asx-mulls-easier-funding-for-miners-longer-hours.html
ASX Ltd. (ASX) , operator of  Australia ’s
main stock exchange, is considering ways to make it easier for
companies to raise money and may extend trading hours.  “I can confirm that ASX is looking at a range of
initiatives including an extension of trading hours and measures
to make it easier for listed entities to raise capital,”
Leeanne Bland, a spokeswoman for the Sydney-based ASX, said in
an emailed statement today. Any changes would require
consultation with brokers, companies and regulators.  The ASX, which was subject to a takeover offer from
 Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX)  that was blocked by the Australian
government last April, may extend trading hours by two hours to
6 p.m. Sydney time, Chief Executive Officer Elmer Funke Kupper
told the Australian newspaper in an interview conducted in Perth
last week and published March 3.  The ASX is in talks with the  Australian Securities (AUZ-U)  &
Investment Commission to change rules that restrict capital
raisings to 15 percent of a company’s value, the Australian
reported.  “Modified capital raising rules, allowing listed entities
to raise up to 25 percent of their capital base, up from the
existing 15 percent, would be of particular benefit to the
small-to-mid cap sector companies, many of which are mining and
resources companies,” Bland said. “Extended trading hours
would be of particular benefit to those brokers and companies in
Perth as well as the Asian time zone.”  Western Australia, the nation’s largest state by land mass,
has the biggest number of ASX-listed companies, with 872 or 40
percent, of the market, according to the Australian. More than
90 percent are small and medium-sized resources companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  