-- Australia Said to Face WTO Complaint Over Tobacco Packaging, Ban on Logos
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2012-03-05T08:03:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/australia-said-to-face-wto-complaint-over-ban-on-tobacco-logos.html
Australia  may face a complaint at
the  World Trade Organization  over its decision to ban trademarks
and logos on tobacco products, according to two people with
direct knowledge of the matter.  The complaint, which says the plain-packaging law violates
global intellectual-property rules, will probably be lodged with
the Geneva-based trade arbiter this month, as soon as this week,
said one person. At least three governments including  Ukraine 
will be involved, said the other person. They declined to be
identified because the complaint isn’t public.  Australia is the first country to require identical
cigarette packaging. As of Dec. 1, 2012, cigarettes there will
have to be sold in dark brown packets, with no company logos or
images and the same font for all brands.  Imperial Tobacco Group
Plc (IMP) ,  British American Tobacco Plc (BATS)  and  Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914)  are
among companies that have challenged the law, which Australia is
extending to include cigars and loose-leaf tobacco products.  The law violates “several provisions” of agreements
protecting intellectual-property rights, Ukraine said at a Feb.
28 WTO meeting on the matter. “Serious concerns about the lack
of consistency of the act and its regulations with fundamental
international rules on the protection of intellectual property
have been echoed by a number of other member governments and
leading international intellectual property and business
organizations throughout the world.”  Evidence Falls Short  Countries including  Chile ,  Colombia , Cuba, the Dominican
Republic, El Salvador, Honduras,  Indonesia , Jordan,  Mexico ,
Nicaragua,  Nigeria ,  Turkey , Zambia and  Zimbabwe  also say the
Australian ban breaks trade rules. They have challenged
Australia’s scientific evidence and said the law will
unnecessarily restrict commerce because the country’s public-
health goal can be met by other means.  The missions of Ukraine, Zimbabwe, Mexico, Indonesia and
Nigeria in Geneva didn’t return calls or declined to comment.  Australia said at the Feb. 28 WTO meeting that it had
“comprehensively responded to all the claims made by the
 Dominican Republic  and others.”  The rule is ‘not anti-trade, it’s anti-cancer,’’ Australian
Trade Minister Craig Emerson said in an e-mailed statement today
in Canberra. “It’s in the public-health interests of the
Australian people and the Gillard government will never give up
on Australia’s sovereign right to look after the health of its
people.”  Luis Manuel Piantini, the Dominican Republic’s ambassador
to the WTO, dismissed Australia’s contention that it had
addressed governments’ concerns about the law. “To date,
Australia has not responded adequately to these concerns, but
has given only incomplete answers that do not demonstrate the
existence of any solid evidence that might support these
measures,” he said in a statement to the February meeting.
Piantini wasn’t available to comment on the WTO complaint.  Tobacco Treaty  The  World Health Organization ’s Framework Convention on
Tobacco Control, the first international treaty aimed at cutting
tobacco use, includes  provisions  on non-pricing measures to
lower demand, including regulations on packaging and labeling.  While the treaty doesn’t specifically address the use of
trademarked brands or logos, it requires signatories to ensure
that packaging and labeling don’t promote a tobacco product by
“any means that are false, misleading, deceptive or likely to
create an erroneous impression about its characteristics, health
effects, hazards or emissions.”  WHO Director-General Margaret Chan said on Nov. 23 that
major tobacco companies were harassing governments including
Australia, Norway and Uruguay in a bid to overturn cigarette
package-labeling rules.  Company Lawsuits  New York-based  Philip Morris International Inc. (PM)  sued
Uruguay in 2010 over a law mandating that health warnings cover
80 percent all cigarettes packages, saying the rule undermined
its intellectual-property rights and violated provisions under a
bilateral investment treaty.  Philip Morris, the world’s largest publicly traded tobacco
company, served an arbitration notice against the Australian
government on Nov. 21 to claim “billions of dollars” in
damages due to the plain-packaging law. Its Philip Morris Asia
Ltd. division said the legislation violates Australia’s
Bilateral Investment Treaty with  Hong Kong .  Two weeks later, Imperial Tobacco Australia began a
challenge in the country’s top court against the law, arguing it
is unconstitutional because the government would acquire its
property improperly. Japan Tobacco followed suit on Dec. 14,
saying the legislation “will stop JTI from using its brands,
which are its most valuable property, and is unconstitutional.”
BAT,  Europe ’s largest cigarette maker, has also taken legal
action against the Australian law.  Smoking Deaths  Smoking kills 15,000 Australians each year and costs about
A$31 billion ($33 billion) in annual health and workplace
expenses, the government says. With 15 percent of the population
aged 14 or over smoking daily, it’s the country’s top drug and
preventable health issue, officials there say.  A U.S. federal district court issued a preliminary
injunction on Nov. 7 delaying implementation of a Food and Drug
Administration rule requiring graphic images and textual
warnings on the top half of the front and back of cigarette
packages.  Lorillard Tobacco Co.,  R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. (RAI) ,
Commonwealth Brands Inc., Liggett Group LLC and Santa Fe Natural
Tobacco Co. sued the FDA, saying its mandates for cigarette
packages, cartons and advertising violate the First Amendment.  Once the WTO complaint is filed, talks must be held for at
least two months among that parties to resolve the dispute.
After that, the complaining governments can ask for a WTO panel
of judges to rule. Judges typically rule within six months,
after which either party can appeal.  The European Union is also considering plain packaging for
tobacco products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  