-- Australian, N.Z. Dollars Fall Versus Yen as Stock Drop Damps Risk Demand
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-03-05T19:19:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/australian-n-z-dollars-fall-versus-yen-as-stock-drop-damps-risk-demand.html
The Australian dollar fell from a
nine-month high against the yen as Asian stocks declined,
sapping demand for riskier assets.  New Zealand ’s dollar slid versus its Japanese counterpart
amid speculation its recent gains were excessive and after
 China , the South Pacific nation’s second-biggest trading
partner, set the lowest growth target since 2004. Losses in the
so-called Aussie were limited before a central bank meeting
tomorrow when policy makers are expected to keep the highest
 interest rates  among major developed economies.  “It does seem that risk appetite is not as strong as it
was one month ago,” said  Thomas Harr , head of Asian currency
strategy at Standard Chartered Plc in Singapore. “I still think
the risk is to the downside” for the Australian currency.  Australia’s dollar fell 1.1 percent to 86.80 yen as of 2:16
p.m. in  New York . On March 2 it touched 88.01, the highest since
May 11. The Aussie lost 0.6 percent to $1.0671. New Zealand’s
currency, known as the kiwi, declined 1.5 percent to 66.83 yen.
It slid 0.9 percent to 82.15 U.S. cents.  The New Zealand dollar’s 14-day relative strength index
against the yen was at 73 on March 2, above the 70 level that
some traders see as a sign that an asset may be about to reverse
direction. The Aussie’s 14-day RSI against the yen was at 78.  Aussie ‘Overvalued’  The Australian dollar “remains overvalued on the basis of
fundamental relationships with Australia’s terms of trade and
interest rates,”  Mike Jones , a foreign-exchange strategist at
Bank of New Zealand in Wellington, wrote in a research note
today. The Aussie’s “close below $1.0710 would pave the way for
a move back to $1.06 and below. We still favor a gradual decline
to $1.01 by year-end.”  China’s government will target economic growth of 7.5
percent this year, the lowest goal since 2004, suggesting
leaders will tolerate slower expansion while they try to reduce
the nation’s reliance on exports. China is Australia’s biggest
trading partner and New Zealand’s second-largest export market.  The non-manufacturing purchasing managers’ index fell to
48.4 from 52.9 in January, the National Bureau of Statistics and
China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said in a statement
on March 3 in Beijing. A reading above 50 indicates an
expansion.  China Economy  “The Chinese non-manufacturing PMI that was below 50 and
the National People’s Congress downward revision on growth
target today are spurring concerns about economic slowdown and
decline in commodity demand,” said Toshiya Yamauchi, a senior
currency analyst in  Tokyo  at Ueda Harlow Ltd., which provides
foreign-exchange margin-trading services. “That could weigh on
commodity currencies” such as the Aussie and kiwi.  Australia ’s government bonds advanced, pushing the yield on
the 10-year security down eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage
point, to 4.04 percent.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia will probably keep the
overnight  cash rate target  at 4.25 percent at a meeting
tomorrow, according to all 24 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News.  Traders expect Australia’s central bank to reduce borrowing
costs by 40 basis points within a year, according a Credit
Suisse AG  index  based on swaps. That compares with 104 basis
points in cuts predicted on Feb. 1.  “There’s a good chance the RBA removes its conditional
easing bias and moves to a neutral bias,” said  Joseph Capurso ,
a currency strategist in Sydney at  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia. (CBA)  “Some of the mining-related data has been very, very
strong and the downside risk to  Europe  has eased considerably as
well. Aussie could get a bit of a kick along.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  