-- Australia Company Profits Fall Most Since ’09 on Weak Mining
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-03-05T02:50:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/australia-company-profits-fall-most-since-09-on-weak-mining-1-.html
Australian  business profits 
unexpectedly dropped in the three months through December by the
most in two-and-a-half years as  earnings  weakened at mining and
financial companies.  Gross operating profits fell 6.5 percent in the fourth
quarter to A$66.3 billion ($71.1 billion) from the previous
three months, when they rose a revised 4.7 percent, the Bureau
of Statistics said in Sydney today. The result compares with the
median forecast for no change in a Bloomberg News survey of 15
economists.  Inventories (INAUQOQ)  rose 1.4 percent, compared with
 economists ’ forecast median for a 0.3 percent gain.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  will keep
the benchmark  interest rate  at 4.25 percent tomorrow, according
to all 24 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Companies such
as  BHP (BHP)  Billiton Ltd. were hurt by a fall in the terms of trade,
or export prices relative to import prices, while a
strengthening currency eroded earnings for manufacturers and
retailers.  Mining profits “were hit by the terms-of-trade decline,”
Westpac Banking Corp. economists led by  Bill Evans  said after
the report. “Profits in the broader economy declined also,
consistent with patchy sales and consistent with private
business surveys reporting sub-par profitability.”  Currency Strength  The Australian dollar gained 5.7 percent last quarter
against its U.S. counterpart, the best performer among the 16
major currencies tracked by Bloomberg, and has risen another 5.1
percent to date this year. After the report, the local currency
was little changed, trading at $1.0726 at 1:34 p.m. in Sydney
compared with $1.0733 on March 2.  From a year earlier, profits advanced 2.2 percent, today’s
report showed.  Profits at mining companies dropped 8.7 percent in the
fourth quarter, while financial and insurance services slumped
57.3 percent, according to today’s report. Utility companies
earned 4.7 percent more, the report showed.  Gross operating profit measures earnings before tax,
interest, depreciation and amortization. It excludes asset sales
and foreign-exchange gains or losses.  A report by  Australia  & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.
showed Australian help-wanted notices advanced for a second
straight month, gaining 3.3 percent in February after rising 7.5
percent in January.  BHP Profit  Stevens lowered the overnight cash rate target by a quarter
percentage point on Nov. 1 and Dec. 6, before unexpectedly
keeping the benchmark unchanged last month at 4.25 percent.
Employment in Australia stalled last year as the currency’s
climb hurt non-resource companies and  house prices  slumped by a
record 4.8 percent.  BHP, the world’s biggest mining company, reported a 5.5
percent drop in first-half profit, the first decline since 2009,
as rising costs and lower output and prices halved base metals
earnings. Net income was $9.9 billion in the six months ended
Dec. 31, from $10.5 billion, a year earlier, the Melbourne-based
company said Feb. 8.  Australia’s economy probably decelerated in the final
quarter of last year to 0.7 percent growth from 1 percent three
months earlier as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis intensified, a
Bloomberg News survey of 23 economists showed before the release
of gross domestic product data on March 7.  Westpac (WBC)  and  Harvey Norman Holdings Ltd. (HVN)  were also among
companies recording weaker results.  Westpac Profit  Westpac, Australia’s second-largest bank, reported first-
quarter profit that was lower than a year earlier as rising
funding costs squeezed the profitability of its lending.
Unaudited cash earnings in the three months ended Dec. 31 were
A$1.5 billion, the Sydney-based bank said Feb. 16. It posted
cash earnings of A$1.55 billion a year earlier.  Harvey Norman , Australia’s largest electrical-goods
retailer, said first-half earnings fell 2.1 percent as stalling
 consumer spending  cut sales and crimped fees from franchisees.
Net income dropped to A$128.9 million in the six months ended
Dec. 31, from A$131.7 million a year earlier, the Sydney-based
company said Feb. 29.  The nation’s steel industry has begun buckling under the
pressure of the higher currency.  BlueScope Steel Ltd. (BSL) , Australia’s largest steelmaker,
posted a wider loss in the first half on lower production,
restructuring costs and impairment charges related to the
closing of a plant. The net loss was A$530 million in the six
months ended Dec. 31 compared with A$55 million a year earlier,
the Melbourne-based company said in a statement last month.  Services Hurt  The services industry has also been hurt, declining in
February to the lowest level in almost a year, driven by a drop
in new orders as the gap between resources and other industries
widens, a private report showed today.  The performance of services index sank to 46.7 last month
from 51.9 in January, the weakest reading since March last year,
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia  and the Australian Industry Group
said in Sydney today. Fifty is the dividing line between
expansion and contraction.  Also today, a gauge of Australia’s annual inflation slowed
to the lower end of the central bank’s 2 percent to 3 percent
target range as weaker prices of furniture and furnishings
offset gains in fruit and vegetables.  Consumer prices rose 2 percent last month from a year
earlier, compared with a 2.2 percent annual advance in January,
according to an index compiled by TD Securities Inc. and the
Melbourne Institute released in Sydney today. Prices rose 0.1
percent in February from January, when they were up 0.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  