-- Lawyer Who Spotted Broker Fraud Rewarded With SEC Ordeal
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-03-05T21:11:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/lawyer-who-spotted-broker-fraud-rewarded-with-5-year-sec-ordeal.html
When Theodore Urban, general counsel
at Ferris, Baker Watts Inc., spotted and questioned a broker’s
suspicious trading patterns in 2007, he triggered a five-year
probe by U.S. regulators who said he failed as a supervisor.  After the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission began its
investigation, Urban, who had worked at the SEC and U.S.
 Commodity Futures Trading Commission  before joining the broker-
dealer, said he had urged senior executives to fire the broker.
Even though an administrative law judge exonerated him, his
ordeal didn’t end until Jan. 26, when the full commission
dismissed the matter without an opinion.  In dropping the case, the commissioners didn’t explain when
a compliance officer or in-house counsel at a broker-dealer or
investment adviser becomes a supervisor liable for an employee’s
actions. Without knowing where their responsibilities lie,
compliance officers and in-house lawyers may be reluctant to
report wrongdoing when they find it. SEC Commissioner Daniel Gallagher addressed what he called this “dangerous dilemma”
last month.  “Robust engagement on the part of legal and compliance
personnel raises the specter that such personnel could be deemed
to be ‘supervisors’ subject to liability for violations of law
by the employees they are held to be supervising,” he said in a
speech in  Washington  on Feb. 24. The SEC, he said in a phone
interview Feb. 29, needs to offer guidance so that those
overseeing compliance “won’t be afraid to be zealous because
they’ll be tagged as a supervisor.”  Guilty Plea  The suspicious trading at Ferris involved Stephen Glantz, a
broker. In 2007, the U.S. attorney in Cleveland accused Glantz
and an unregistered investment adviser of scheming to
artificially increase the stock price of Innotrac Corp., a
company that provides e-commerce fulfillment services.  Glantz pleaded guilty in September 2007 to one count of
stock fraud and one count of making a false statement. He was
sentenced to 33 months in prison. Glantz couldn’t be reached for
comment; his lawyer, Angelo Lonardo of  Cleveland , didn’t return
a call seeking comment.  The SEC began investigating Urban’s supervision of Glantz
in 2007, and Urban, the firm’s top in-house lawyer, retired that
same year. Ferris, which had $18.5 billion under management in
57 offices and was entirely employee-owned, was sold to  Royal
Bank of Canada  in 2008. After RBC acquired Ferris, it changed
the name to RBC Wealth Management. Tammy Benson, a bank
spokeswoman, didn’t return a call seeking comment on Urban’s
case.  Urban said he was fortunate in some ways because he didn’t
need to look for full-time employment. Since leaving Washington-
based Ferris, Urban has set up a consulting firm to advise on
securities matters as well as pension issues.  “After a long and stable career, I wasn’t in need of
finding another full-time position,” said Urban, who started at
Ferris in 1984. “For someone in a different financial
circumstance, it would have been almost impossible to bear a
five-year ordeal like this.”  Not Litigated  Cases like Urban’s aren’t typically litigated because of
the time and expense involved. Urban hired John Sturc, a partner
at Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP, to represent him. Sturc declined
to disclose his legal fees in the matter, although Urban said
Ferris indemnified him for his expenses.  Sturc said the case presented an important issue.  “There are no standards comparable to generally accepted
audit standards by which the SEC can evaluate the conduct of a
compliance officer,” he said.  Urban had a hearing before the SEC’s chief administrative
law judge, Brenda P. Murray, in March 2010. Six months passed
before she released her  decision , which held that although Urban
was, under the law, the broker’s supervisor, he “performed his
responsibilities in a cautious, objective, thorough and
reasonable manner.” As a result, “Urban did not fail to
supervise,” Murray said.  ‘Pure Folly’  The SEC’s Enforcement Division, in a move Urban described
as “pure folly,” petitioned the commission for a review of the
decision. Sturc filed a cross-motion for a review, urging the
full commission to reconsider the finding that Urban was a
supervisor.  The amount of the penalty can vary with the case, according
to Christian Mixter, a partner in the Washington office of
Morgan Lewis & Bockius LLP. Mixter was the head lawyer on an
amicus brief filed urging the commission to clarify the role of
a supervisor and articulate clear standards on behalf of the
National Society of Compliance Professionals.  Arguments were postponed twice. On Jan. 26, the agency
dismissed the case, leaving compliance officers and in-house
counsel with no guidance.  The dismissal was triggered when three commissioners -- SEC
Chairman  Mary Schapiro , Elisse Walter and Gallagher -- recused
themselves and the remaining two couldn’t agree. That prompted
Gallagher to address the topic in his speech.  “Firms and investors are best served when legal and
compliance personnel feel confident in stepping forward and
engaging on real issues,” he said, according to a transcript
posted on  the agency’s website . “Deterring such active
involvement will erode investor confidence in firms, to the
detriment of all.”  ‘Deemed a Supervisor’  Gallagher’s current view diverges somewhat from the one he
expressed in 2009, when he was co-acting director of the SEC’s
Division of Trading and Markets. He said then that an in-house
lawyer “can be deemed a supervisor when other members of senior
management ‘involve him as part of management’s collective
response to the problem.’”  The difference isn’t a change of opinion as much as a
change of his status.  “I was a staffer at the time and had a lot less
discretion,” Gallagher said in the interview last month. “The
standard is too vague and we need to provide further guidance,”
he said by phone today.  He said strong compliance officers are even more important
with “all of the new investment advisers coming on board.”
Because investment advisers have no self-regulatory organization
comparable to the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, which
regulates broker-dealers, there is “no intermediary” to
oversee compliance between the firms and the SEC.  As part of those efforts, the SEC on Nov. 28 accused three
investment advisers of failing to enact compliance procedures.
The three cases settled. In one, the firm’s owner, who
functioned as chief compliance officer, was separately fined
$50,000.  Apparent Deficiencies  The SEC’s enforcement division is also focused on ensuring
that broker-dealers have compliance programs in place by
bringing enforcement actions against those with apparent
deficiencies.  Robert Kaplan , co-chief of the Enforcement Division’s Asset
Management Unit, said in a statement that the “failure to adopt
and maintain adequate compliance policies and procedures is a
significant violation of the federal securities laws.” Kaplan
didn’t return a call seeking comment on Urban’s case.  The actions create another specter of uncertainty,
according to  John Walsh , a partner in the Washington office of
 Sutherland Asbill & Brennan LLP (1216L) . Walsh, who worked at the SEC
for 23 years, created the Office of Compliance Inspections and
Examinations.  “For years, when examiners come and find problems they
would send a letter to fix the problems,” he said in an
interview. “What makes these cases different is that the SEC is
hitting the firm, and in one case, the compliance officer, with
an enforcement action.”  ‘Self-Report’  He said he fears that if chief compliance officers think
they could be charged, they may be reluctant to “self-report”
information to the SEC.  A joint study by the Society of Corporate Compliance and
Ethics and the Health Care Compliance Association found that
“most compliance professionals operate under significant
amounts of stress, enough so that they are losing sleep and have
considered leaving their jobs because of the stress.”  Gallagher said in the interview that he wants his speech to
relieve some of the uncertainty in the profession.  “If they’re scared of their own shadows, it will be
counterproductive,” he said.  The administrative proceeding was In the Matter of Urban,
File No. 3-13655, Securities and Exchange Commission
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  