-- Taymor’s Brilliant Stage Images Fizzle in Film: The Rainer File
-- B y   P e t e r   R a i n e r
-- 2012-03-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/taymor-s-striking-stage-imagery-gets-flattened-in-films-the-rainer-file.html
Julie Taymor  knows how to cause a
ruckus.  She’s been celebrated on Broadway for her staging of  “The
Lion King”  and pilloried for her extravagances as the original
director of “Spider-Man: Turn off the Dark.”  Why doesn’t her movie work have the same pizzazz?  Unlike a lot of legendary theater-turned-movie directors
(Orson Welles and Bob Fosse, to name two of the best), Taymor
has never seemed quite at home on the big screen. Paradoxically,
her shows seem more cinematic than her cinema. (Her dismissal
from “Spider-Man” continues to be a subject of litigation).  This may be because her imagination is essentially keyed to
the proscenium arch. She regards theater as a species of magic
show. (She once wrote, in connection with “The  Lion King ,”
that “Magic can be generated by blatantly showing how theater
is created rather than hiding it.”)  As any magician will tell you, illusions are better
sustained on a live stage than before a camera, where the
cinematic process is itself a form of trickery and undercuts the
mystery. Taymor reaches for striking visual tableaux that on
stage are impressive and on film seem fraudulent.  Lady Prospero  Her most recent film, “The Tempest” (2010) was arguably
her weakest, despite the fact that she had staged Shakespeare’s
drama back in 1986. Compared with Derek Jarman’s 1979 movie
adaptation, which concluded with a jazz rendition of “Stormy
Weather,” Taymor’s version is adventurous in all the wrong
ways, starting with her gender-bending decision to cast  Helen Mirren  as “Prospera.”  Mirren seems befuddled -- shipwrecked -- by the conceit.
There’s little force in her tour de force. The enchanted island
where she reigns is all too obviously a series of travelogue-ish
Hawaii locations. Ariel zooms through the sky in a blur of
cheesy afterimages.  Taymor’s earlier Shakespeare movie adaptation,  “Titus” 
(1999), was stronger. In her feature-film debut, Taymor brought
to the screen some of the elemental force that characterizes her
best stage work (including a cult-status staging of “Titus
Andronicus” in 1994 at  New York ’s  Theater For a New Audience ).  The film is mostly set amid Roman ruins but it has
motorbikes, tractors and tanks and a distinctly nouveau
disposition.  Anthony Hopkins ’s infernal general Titus is a kind
of punk king, and his prisoner, Jessica Lange’s Tamora, is the
golden-armored queen of the goths.  Time Bender  As a director of stage and screen, Taymor is even more into
time-bending than gender-bending, and “Titus,” although it’s
more like a collection of tableaux vivants than a movie, at
least bends intriguingly.  You can’t say as much for  “Frida”  (2002), which could
have used a dose of daring. This was the project that  Salma Hayek , who plays Mexican artist  Frida Kahlo , fought seven years
to finance, and yet it doesn’t come across as a movie that
anybody just had to make. By Taymor standards, it’s a fairly
straightforward biopic.  Hayek gamely tries to make the most of her unibrow. The
bohemian chic, including a tango scene between Frida and Ashley Judd’s Tina Modotti that recalls Bernardo Bertolucci’s  “The
Conformist,”  seems second-hand. The film only comes alive when
Taymor recreates some of Kahlo’s paintings -- in other words,
when it most resembles Taymor’s conceptual brand of stage work.  Strawberry Bombs  “Across the Universe” (2007), Taymor’s ode to Beatles
music, is too shaggy and wide-eyed to dislike, but it exposes
one of Taymor’s greatest failings: Her lack of narrative sense.
(She co-wrote the story). It’s about Jude (Jim Sturgess), a
Liverpool dockworker who visits America and falls for the upper-
crust Lucy (Evan Rachel Wood).  “Universe” features 33 Beatles’ songs. Taymor piles on
the masks and the puppets. She stages “Strawberry Fields
Forever” with strawberries bombing  Southeast Asia  and has Bono
appear as the acid guru Dr. Robert singing “I Am the Walrus.”  It’s a bliss-out without much bliss. For all her gifts,
much the same could be said of Taymor’s movie career to date.  ( Peter Rainer  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions expressed are his own).  To contact the writer responsible for this story: Peter Rainer
at  Fi1L2E@aol.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Manuela
Hoelterhoff at  mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  