-- Mazda to Raise Record $1.9B in Share Sale
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2012-03-05T07:26:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/mazda-to-raise-record-1-9b-in-share-sale.html
Mazda Motor Corp. (7261) ,  Japan ’s most
unprofitable major carmaker, will raise as much as 151.2 billion
yen ($1.9 billion) in a record share sale to replenish capital
as it braces for its biggest annual loss in 11 years.  The maker of the Mazda 3 compact car will sell as many as
1.22 billion new shares, almost 70 percent of its outstanding
stock, at 124 yen apiece, the  company  said in a statement today.
That’s 3.1 percent below the stock’s last closing price.  The nation’s most export-reliant carmaker is forecasting a
100 billion yen annual loss after the yen appreciated against
all major currencies during 2011, which has also driven down
earnings at  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  The proceeds
may help Mazda avoid a debt-rating downgrade and allow the
company to fund overseas factories needed to reduce its
vulnerability to the Japanese currency.  Mazda rose 0.8 percent to close at 128 yen before the
announcement. The stock has fallen 5.9 percent this year, the
worst performer among Japan’s eight biggest automakers.  The share sale will raise less than the preliminary 162.8
billion yen the company estimated Feb. 22.  Mazda, based in Fuchu, western Japan, is planning to use
part of the proceeds to build a $500 million factory in  Mexico ,
where it aims to build 140,000 cars a year, by April 2013.  The company also plans to borrow 70 billion yen in loans
this month as part of its fundraising plans.  Debt Rating  The funds also reduces the risk Mazda’s debt rating will be
cut by Japan’s Rating & Investment Information Inc., which on
Feb. 2 said it may lower its BBB classification -- two levels
above junk. Five quarters of losses eroded the company’s equity
-- also known as book value -- to less than 20 percent of
 assets . Mazda’s debt isn’t  rated  by  Standard & Poor’s  and
Moody’s Investors Service.  The ratio of stockholder’s equity relative to total assets
is among the most important measures determining company’s
credit rating, according to R&I’s website. While a capital
increase is positive for Mazda’s creditworthiness, it isn’t the
only measure to gauge the company’s ability to generate  cash ,
according to  Jun Tanaka , chief analyst at R&I in  Tokyo .  The share sale comes after Mazda President Takashi Yamanouchi reporters in Tokyo that repairing Mazda’s capital
“is a must” and that the company was weighing its options to
boost capital.  Mazda on Feb. 2 widened its full-year loss forecast,  citing 
the growing “financial instability” in  Europe  and shortfalls
from last year’s floods in Thailand among reasons for the
company to lower its projections.  Mazda has posted  losses  partly because of its vulnerability
to the yen, which has appreciated against all major currencies
in the past two years. To reduce the  currency risk , Mazda plans
to increase its portion of overseas production to 50 percent by
March 2016 from about 30 percent now. The company is also
counting on its  Skyactiv technology  -- designed to improve  fuel
efficiency , driving performance and reducing production costs --
to help revive profits.  SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.,  Nomura Securities Co. (NCLZ)  and
JPMorgan Securities Japan Co. are among the brokers hired to
arrange the sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  