-- Thailand Stocks: Big C, Bumrungrad, Quality Houses, Raimon Land
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2012-03-05T09:50:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/bangkok-dusit-berli-jucker-raimon-thailand-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
had unusual moves in  Thailand   trading . Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the close in Bangkok.  The  SET Index (SET)  fell for the first time in five days,
dropping 0.6 percent to 1,157.95.  Retailers:  Big C (BIGC)  Supercenter Pcl and rival Thai retail
companies need to report “spectacular earnings” to extend a 23
percent rally in consumer stocks this year, according to MFC
Asset Management Pcl. The SET Commerce Index, the nation’s best-
performing industry group in 2012, will lag behind gains in the
benchmark SET Index this year, said Chakrit Puechpan, head of
domestic equity at MFC Asset, which manages about $8.8 billion
of assets.  Big C (BIGC TB), the nation’s second-largest hypermarket
operator, declined 2.2 percent to 153.5 baht, the first loss in
four days.  Home Product Center Pcl (HMPRO)   lost 2.4 percent
to 12 baht.  Siam Global House Pcl (GLOBAL)   slipped 1.6
percent to 12 baht.  Bumrungrad Hospital Pcl (BH)  , a private-hospital
operator, gained 2.1 percent to 49 baht, the highest close since
Jan. 17. The company was upgraded to “outperform” from
“neutral” at Credit Suisse Group AG, which said the company’s
profits will be boosted by an increase in medical tourism.  Quality Houses Pcl (QH)  , a property developer, climbed
3.9 percent to 1.88 baht, the highest close since Aug. 17. The
company was upgraded to “neutral” from “underperform” at KGI
Securities (Thailand) Pcl, which cited an improving business
outlook.  Raimon Land Pcl (RAIMON)  , a property developer, declined
2.1 percent to 1.44 baht, the first loss in five days. Investors
are required to pay cash upfront before placing orders to buy
Raimon’s shares, the bourse said in a statement on March 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  