-- BP, BofA, JPMorgan, Morgan Stanley, Goldman in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-03-05T12:34:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/bank-of-america-jpmorgan-morgan-stanley-goldman-in-court-news.html
BP Plc (BP\)  may face as much as
$17.6 billion in civil pollution fines and possibly billions of
dollars more in criminal penalties as its settlement with
businesses and individuals harmed by the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil
spill shifts the focus to government claims.  BP said March 2 it would pay an estimated $7.8 billion to
resolve private plaintiffs’ claims for economic loss, property
damage and injuries. The settlement, to be paid from a
$20 billion trust for spill victims set up in 2010, doesn’t
resolve federal and state government environmental damage
claims. BP has set aside $37 billion to cover spill costs.  Because plaintiffs’ lawyers and government officials have
worked together to gather evidence about who is at fault for the
spill, U.S. Justice Department attorneys are likely to take the
lead in the case, said Edward Sherman, a Tulane University Law
School professor in New Orleans who teaches classes on complex
litigation and mass-tort law.  “We’ll now see the federal government pick up the ball in
this case and run with it,” Sherman said in a phone interview.
“They have plenty of lawyers capable of effectively presenting
the case against BP and the other defendants.”  U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in New Orleans had been
set to hear evidence in a trial starting today to decide fault
for the spill. BP was sued along with Vernier, Switzerland-based
 Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , owner and operator of the doomed Deepwater
Horizon rig, and Houston-based  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , provider of
cementing services at the Macondo oil well, about 45 miles (72
kilometers) off the Louisiana coast.  Barbier delayed the trial after a settlement was announced
of consolidated cases against London-based BP that are overseen
by a group of lawyers known as the Plaintiffs Steering
Committee, or PSC. He said in a March 2 order that he will
schedule a status conference to discuss the consequences of the
accord and set a new trial date.  The judge said he delayed the trial because the settlement
“would likely result in a realignment of the parties in this
litigation and require substantial changes” to the trial plan
he adopted.  BP officials said their estimates showed the PSC spill
settlement would cost the company at least $7.8 billion. They
said the figure didn’t amount to a cap of how much the company
would pay to resolve claims over the disaster.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  For more, click here.  New Suits  Bank of America Sued by Fund Over Mortgage-Backed Securities  Bank of America Corp.  was sued by Asset Management Fund
over claims it gave faulty information about the loans backing
$239.5 million worth of residential mortgage-backed securities.  The suit accuses the Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank
and other defendants of making “material misrepresentations and
omissions” about underwriting standards used to issue mortgage
loans that were pooled together into the securities, which were
sold to Chicago-based Asset Management Fund, according to court
documents.  “Each of the defendants knew, or at a minimum was
negligent in knowing, that its representations and omissions
were false and/or misleading at the time they were made,”
lawyers for Asset Management Fund said in the court documents,
which were filed in  New York  State Supreme Court March 1.  Pools of home loans securitized into bonds were a central
part of the housing bubble that helped send the U.S. into the
biggest recession since the 1930s. The housing market collapsed,
and the crisis swept up lenders and investment banks as the
market for the securities evaporated.  Asset Management Fund, which does business as AMF Funds,
sued JPMorgan Chase & Co. in the same court over similar claims
last month. The firm, which is managed by  Shay Assets Management
Inc. , had about $590 million in assets under management in 2011,
according to its  website .  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for Bank of America, said in
an e-mail that the company had no comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Asset Management Fund v.  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) , 650614/2012, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan.)  Principal Life Sues JPMorgan Over Mortgage-Backed Securities  JPMorgan Chase & Co. was sued by a  Principal Financial
Group Inc. (PFG)  unit, which accused the bank of making false
statements in connection with the sale of $114.9 million in
residential mortgage-backed securities.  Principal Life Insurance Co., a unit of the Des Moines,
Iowa-based  seller  of insurance and retirement products, accused
New York-based JPMorgan Chase of making “misrepresentations and
omissions” about the mortgage loans that were pooled together
into the securities, according to documents filed in New York
state Supreme Court March 1.  Pools of home loans securitized into bonds were a central
part of the housing bubble that helped send the U.S. into the
biggest recession since the 1930s. The housing market collapsed,
and the crisis swept up lenders and investment banks as the
market for the securities evaporated.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for JPMorgan Chase,
didn’t immediately respond to a telephone message left at her
office seeking comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Principal Life Insurance Co. v.  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM) , 650615/2012, New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  Morgan Stanley Executive Charged in Hate Crime Stabbing  Morgan Stanley’s William Bryan Jennings, the bank’s bond-
underwriting chief in the U.S., was charged with a hate crime
for stabbing a  New York City  cab driver of Middle Eastern
descent over a fare.  The driver said Jennings assaulted him Dec. 22 with a “pen
knife” and used racial slurs after a 40-mile cab ride from New
York City to his $3.4 million home in Connecticut’s Fairfield
County, Darien Police Detective Mark Cappelli said.  Jennings and the driver argued over the fare from New York,
where his lawyer said the executive had attended a charity
event. After arriving at his driveway, Jennings refused to pay
$204, the driver told police. A fight ensued and Jennings cut
the driver, police said. The banker, who turned himself in two
weeks later, was charged with second-degree assault, theft of
services and intimidation by bias or bigotry. He faces as many
as 5 years in prison on the assault charge.  “He has been placed on leave,” Pen Pendleton, a spokesman
for the New York-based bank, said March 2. Jennings was released
on $9,500 bond and is set for a court appearance on March 9.  The banker has worked at  Morgan Stanley (MS)  his entire
securities-industry career, starting in 1993, according to the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Now co-head of North American fixed-income capital markets,
he worked his way up from associate; vice president, and then
principal, for debt capital markets; to executive director for
investment banking and then managing director for fixed income
capital markets.  Jennings, a graduate of Williams College who also received
a master’s in business from Northwestern University, contacted
police after learning he was being sought in relation to the
incident, Darien Police Lt. Ronald Bussell said. He was arrested
and charged Feb. 29.  Eugene Riccio, Jennings’ defense attorney, said the driver
made an “exorbitant demand” closer to $300 and that he
attempted to abduct his client after driving him from a charity
event in Manhattan. He declined to specify the event or where
his client had hailed the cab.  “My client was the victim of a crime that night -- not the
perpetrator of one,” Riccio said, denying that his client made
any racial slurs. “He was abducted against his will from his
own driveway. Fortunately he was able to escape.”  For more, click here.  U.S. Busts 29 Over $325 Million in Counterfeit Chinese Goods  U.S. authorities charged 29 people with smuggling $325
million in counterfeit consumer goods from China, including
phony Nike sneakers and Coach handbags, through a New Jersey
port.  The bust was one of the largest counterfeiting probes in
U.S. history, and it involved smuggling cigarettes, handbags and
sneakers through the Port Newark-Elizabeth Marine Terminal as
U.S. agents secretly watched and listened, U.S. Attorney Paul
Fishman said. Agents infiltrated two overlapping criminal rings
and lured them to use a front company run by the government.  Authorities arrested 23 people in New York, New Jersey,
Texas and the Philippines. Six are at large. Most are Chinese
and lived in New York. Prosecutors said they used phony
paperwork to import goods in corrugated shipping containers,
used distributors and wholesalers, and laundered illicit
proceeds.  The arrest complaints quote dozens of secretly recorded
conversations, including one between Hai Yan Jiang, 32, of
Richardson, and Lin Wu, 43, of Maspeth, New York. They discussed
importing counterfeit cosmetics, and Wu asked if the products
would be safe, according to their arrest complaint.  Yan said the cosmetics were “counterfeit, but of good
quality,” adding: “All I care about is to make money, other
things do not matter.”  The cases include U.S. v. Patrick Siu, 12-cr-7061 and U.S.
v. Ning Guo, 12-cr-7060, U.S. District Court, District of New
Jersey (Newark).  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Credit Suisse Must Face $2 Billion National Century Notes Case  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  must defend fraud claims by
institutional investors who bought $2 billion in notes issued by
the bankrupt health-care financer, National Century Financial
Enterprises Inc., a judge ruled March 2.  The noteholders claim Credit Suisse, the placement agent,
knew or should have known of the $2.9 billion fraud that led to
National Century’s collapse in 2002. Ten executives of the
Dublin, Ohio-based company were convicted of crimes, including
former Chief Executive Officer Lance Poulsen, who is serving 30
years in prison.  Credit Suisse argued that it didn’t know of the fraud,
which National Century hid, and that it didn’t mislead
noteholders, according to the March 2 ruling by U.S. District
Judge James Graham in Columbus, Ohio. Graham granted other parts
of the bank’s motion to dismiss the case.  Claims against the Zurich-based bank for negligent
misrepresentation and aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary
duty were dismissed by the judge.  “Credit Suisse will continue its defense of this decade-
old case, and remains confident that a jury will find based on
all the evidence that it should not be held responsible for
assisting or committing any wrongdoing,” Steven Vames, a Credit
Suisse spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  The case is In re National Century Financial Enterprises
Inc. Investment Litigation, 03-md-01565, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of Ohio (Columbus).  U.S. Urges Dismissal of Greenberg’s $25 Billion AIG Claim  The U.S. government said Maurice “Hank” Greenberg, the
former  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  chief executive
officer, should not be allowed in a court case to “rewrite”
the insurer’s rescue agreement and make American taxpayers pay
$25 billion more.  The U.S. Justice Department, in a filing March 1 in the
U.S. Court of Federal Claims in Washington, said a lawsuit filed
by Greenberg’s Starr International Co. seeking damages in that
sum for the 2008 AIG takeover should be dismissed. The
government said Starr lacks the authority to sue and has no
claim.  “Starr demands that the court second guess AIG and rewrite
the rescue agreement by making American taxpayers pay an
additional $25 billion, based upon a market valuation of AIG
after the rescue,” the U.S. said in its filing. “Although
Starr may disagree with the terms to which AIG agreed, any
burdens resulting from that agreement should be borne by AIG and
its shareholders, not the public.”  Starr International sued the government Nov. 21, calling
the public assumption of 80 percent of stock in the insurer in
2008 an unconstitutional “taking” of property that requires
$25 billion in compensation.  Alison Preece, a spokeswoman for the law firm representing
Starr, declined to comment on the government’s filing.  The federal claims case is Starr International Co. v. U.S.,
1:11-cv-00779, U.S. Court of Federal Claims (Washington). The
Federal Reserve case is Starr International Co. v. Federal
Reserve Bank of New York, 1:11-cv-08422, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Aluminium Bahrain Seeks to Keep Alcoa Bribery Suit Alive  Bahrain’s state-owned aluminum producer asked a court to
let it proceed with racketeering claims that it overpaid for raw
materials because of bribes directed by  Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest
U.S. aluminum producer.  Aluminium Bahrain BSC (ALBH) , known as Alba, claims that New York-
based Alcoa bribed senior officials in Bahrain and caused Alba
to pay almost $500 million more than it should have for alumina,
the principal raw material in aluminum. Alcoa has asked a judge
to dismiss the case, arguing that the alleged conduct took place
outside the U.S. and shouldn’t be litigated in federal court.  Alba countered that Alcoa and other defendants used
offshore shell companies to “perpetrate and conceal a massive,
home-cooked bribery scheme conceived, orchestrated, and directed
in and from the United States,” according to its filing March 1
in federal court in Pittsburgh.  Lori Lecker, an Alcoa spokeswoman, said in an e-mail that
“Alba’s allegations remain unsupported by law or by fact.”  The case is Aluminium Bahrain BSC v. Alcoa Inc., 08-
cv-00299, U.S. District Court, Western District of Pennsylvania
(Pittsburgh).  For more, click here.  Delphi’s Buyout by Tokio Should Be Blocked, Judge Is Told  Delphi Financial Group Inc. (DFG) ’s $2.7 billion buyout by rival
insurer  Tokio Marine Holdings Inc. (8766)  should be blocked because it
doesn’t provide enough for investors while unfairly enriching
the company’s top executive, a lawyer argued to a judge.  Robert Rosenkranz, Delphi’s chief executive officer,
negotiated a side deal that would wrongly compensate him as part
of the sale to Tokio Marine,  Stuart Grant , a lawyer for pension-
fund investors that sued, told a judge March 2 in Wilmington,
Delaware.  Under the non-binding deal, Tokio Marine would maintain
contracts with two firms Rosenkranz owns that do business with
Delphi, or buy them, the investors’ lawyers claim. The side
agreement is different from an executive’s asking for salary and
benefits from a buyer, Grant told Delaware Chancery Court Judge
Sam Glasscock in a hearing on the funds’ request for a temporary
order blocking the deal.  “It’s something else to say, ‘I have been stealing from
the company for years and I need you to help me keep
stealing,’” Grant said after Glasscock asked him why the side
agreement was wrong.  Delphi’s lawyers contend that Rosenkranz only discussed a
sale of the firms with Tokio Marine officials and didn’t reach
any formal deal.  The pension funds want Glasscock to temporarily halt the
sale while a trial on the disputes goes forward. Glasscock ended
the March 2 hearing without issuing a decision. He said he would
try to release his ruling this week.  The case is In re Delphi Financial Group Shareholder
Litigation, 7144, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Gupta Animosity With Rajaratnam Key to Defense, Lawyer Says  A “key defense theme” in the case of Rajat Gupta, the
former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director accused of insider
trading, will be his poor relationship with Raj Rajaratnam, the
Galleon Group LLC cofounder convicted of profiting from his
tips, one of Gupta’s lawyers said.  In a letter to U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff March 1,
lawyer David Frankel said an unnamed “key government witness”
discussed the “animosity between the two men” in a July 2010
interview with investigators from the Securities and Exchange
Commission and Federal Bureau of Investigation.  The disclosure came in a letter seeking exculpatory
material in the SEC notes from 44 interviews jointly conducted
by the agency and the U.S. Attorney’s office in their
investigation.  In a hearing in January before Rakoff, who will preside
over Gupta’s trial in May, prosecutors said Claes Dahlback, a
Goldman Sachs director who is a former chief executive officer
of Sweden’s  Investor AB (INVEA) , spoke to Gupta after Rajaratnam’s
October 2009 arrest.  “Dahlback asked Gupta if Gupta knew Rajaratnam,” Rakoff
said, quoting a memo summarizing Dahlback’s June interview with
the government. “Gupta responded that ‘Rajaratnam was a bad
man.’ Gupta further stated Gupta lost money with Rajaratnam,”
Rakoff said, summarizing the witness report.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara
in Manhattan, declined to comment.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District Court
for the Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Goldman’s Blankfein Was Prepped by U.S., Gupta’s Lawyer Says  Lawyers for Rajat Gupta, the former Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. director accused of passing inside tips, said prosecutors
in the case conducted preparation sessions with Goldman Sachs
Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  before his Feb. 24
deposition.  Blankfein, who testified as a prosecution witness at the
insider-trading trial of Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj
Rajaratnam, was questioned as part of a parallel insider-trading
lawsuit brought by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
against Gupta, who was charged in October with passing nonpublic
information to Rajaratnam.  “Does Goldman Sachs have any interest in the outcome of
this litigation?” Gary Naftalis, Gupta’s lawyer asked Blankfein
at the end of the deposition that began at 10:22 a.m. and
concluded at 7:14 p.m.  “No,” Blankfein replied.  Excerpts from the Blankfein transcript were attached to the
defense lawyers’ letters to U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, who
is presiding over both cases.  Blankfein, who might be a prosecution witness against
Gupta, said during the day-long deposition that he had
participated in two sessions in which Assistant U.S. Attorney
Reed Brodsky, who is prosecuting Gupta, asked “three-quarters”
of the questions. The sessions were held at Goldman Sachs,
Blankfein said.  Federal Bureau of Investigation agents were also present at
the preparatory sessions, as well as SEC representatives,
Naftalis said in a March 1 letter to Rakoff.  The excerpts also show that SEC lawyers objected numerous
times to questions Naftalis asked about the government’s
preparation of Blankfein, citing a legal privilege barring Gupta
from discovering information about its legal strategy and the
thought processes of its lawyers.  Naftalis has asked Rakoff to allow Gupta’s defense team to
resume questioning Blankfein about these preparations and
require the SEC to provide Gupta with the documents shown to
Blankfein during the sessions. While Naftalis didn’t allege
anything improper occurred during the preparation sessions, he
said he’s seeking the documents used to help prepare Blankfein.  “The SEC’s attempt to withhold from disclosure the
documents shown to Mr. Blankfein by Mr. Brodsky to refresh his
recollection fails,” Naftalis said in the letter to Rakoff.  “There can be no dispute that Blankfein is a key witness
with respect to the allegations against Mr. Gupta,” Naftalis
said. “It is therefore in the ‘interests of justice’ to permit
Mr. Gupta to cross-examine these documents.”  Gupta, who denies wrongdoing, was charged in October with
leaking information about Goldman Sachs and Procter & Gamble Co.
to Rajaratnam, who was convicted last year and is serving an 11-
year prison sentence. Gupta was also a director at P&G.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District Court
for the Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Vulcan-Martin Marietta Merger-Trial Judge Reserves Decision  Vulcan Materials Co. (VMC) ’s planned hostile takeover by rock-
crushing rival  Martin Marietta Materials Inc. (MLM)  could be blocked
by a Delaware Chancery Court judge who reserved decision on the
case after a four-day trial.  Judge Leo Strine Jr. asked lawyers March 2 for post-trial
briefings before the end of the month in Wilmington, Delaware,
and said he’d hold final arguments the week of March 29.  If the ultimate remedy is to “block it,” the question is,
“for how long?” Strine said of Martin Marietta’s $4.7 billion
stock-swap bid.  In guiding lawyers’ future arguments, Strine said, “I
don’t think there was ideal scrutiny on either side” of the
potential combination, subject of initial friendly talks two
years ago.  The “primary reason” for the breakdown in earlier talks
was that the parties “couldn’t decide who was going to run
it,” the judge said.  “I think it’s a tough case,” Strine said. “Martin
Marietta has put itself in an awkward position.”  Combining the companies is “compelling” and would create
“enormous shareholder value,” Martin Marietta’s Chairman,
Stephen P. Zelnak, told the judge March 2.  Martin Marietta sued Birmingham, Alabama-based Vulcan on
Dec. 12, the same day it made the unsolicited bid.  Martin Marietta has asked Strine to declare that the offer
wasn’t prohibited by a May 2010 confidentiality agreement.
Vulcan claims Martin Marietta violated the agreement with its
public offer.  The case is Martin Marietta Materials v. Vulcan Materials,
CA7102, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  ING Wins Challenge Forcing EU to Reconsider Bailout Terms  ING Groep NV (INGA)  won a court ruling forcing European Union
regulators to re-examine the conditions they imposed on the
Dutch lender’s government rescue in the wake of the 2008
financial crisis.  The EU’s General Court said the European Commission wrongly
considered a revision of repayment terms as 2 billion euros
($2.65 billion) of additional aid to ING on top of 10 billion
euros it received in 2008. The court struck down part of the
EU’s decision, which will force regulators to re-open their
assessment of part of the Dutch government’s bailout to the
bank.  ING was ordered by the commission to sell units to shrink
its balance sheet by 45 percent by the end of 2013 and avoid
undercutting rivals on prices for some banking products for
three years or until it repaid the aid. The lender returned 5
billion euros of aid in 2009 after agreeing with the Netherlands
on revised repayment terms. The EU regulator determined that
change amounted to extra aid of about 2 billion euros.  “This is quite good news for ING,” said Cor Kluis, an
analyst at Rabobank International in Utrecht. “Hopefully it
won’t take too much time for the EC to adjust the terms. We also
hope the EC won’t appeal.”  ING and the Dutch government challenged the terms of the
EU’s approval, which the bank says punished it too harshly for
state help in 2008 and 2009. ING said the regulator
miscalculated the amount of aid and imposed excessive
restructuring demands.  “ING welcomes the judgment to partially annul the EC
decision,” the Amsterdam-based bank said in a statement. “ING
will carefully assess the full judgment and its consequences.
Announcements on any potential further actions will only be made
if and when appropriate.”  The commission will publish a revised decision on the aid
terms, Antoine Colombani, spokesman for Joaquin Almunia, the
EU’s antitrust commissioner, said in an e-mail. The regulator
will “carefully assess” the ruling before deciding whether to
appeal, he said.  The Dutch Finance Ministry in The Hague is “satisfied” by
the ruling and will study it to “further assess the
consequences,” spokesman Ben Feiertag, said in a phone
interview.  The Dutch central bank joined the case on ING’s behalf.
National bank supervisors should formally be heard by the
commission to avoid it imposing terms that hurt financial
stability, it said. Klaas Knot, who heads the central bank, has
also argued for a dispute settlement procedure when competition
and national financial regulators clash.  “We see today’s ruling as a signal to the commission that
it would be wise to involve national supervisors in its
decisions,” said Kees Verhagen, a spokesman for the Dutch
central bank in Amsterdam. “The court ruled the decision was
based on incomplete information and that was partly caused by
the fact that they ignored information submitted by the national
supervisor.”  The cases are T-33/10, ING Groep v. Commission and T-29/10,
Netherlands v. Commission.  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Law Firm Representing Deutsche Bank in Kirch Litigation Quits  One of three law firms that represented  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) 
and its former Chief Executive Officer  Rolf Breuer  in the
decade-long dispute with Leo Kirch’s media group resigned from
the case.  Sernetz Schaefer Rechtsanwaelte told the Munich appeals
court hearing two related cases on Feb. 27 that they no longer
work for the lender or Breuer, Manfred Wolf, a lawyer at the
Munich-based firm said in an interview March 2. He declined to
say why his firm decided to withdraw.  Deutsche Bank, Germany’s biggest lender, rejected  March 1
a proposal to settle the litigation tied to comments by Breuer
in 2002 about the Kirch group’s creditworthiness. The bank said
it made the decision after a “thorough review,” which included
considering internal and external legal advice.  Deutsche Bank and Kirch’s heirs discussed a settlement of
the claims that Breuer’s comments caused the collapse of the
media group. The amount talked about was 800 million euros ($1
billion), a person with knowledge of the negotiations said last
month. The Frankfurt-based bank was said to have previously
rejected a 775 million-euro settlement proposed by a Munich
court.  Detlev Rahmsdorf, a Deutsche Bank spokesman, declined to
comment.  The two other German law firms that represent Deutsche Bank
and Breuer in the matter are Hengeler Mueller and Gleiss Lutz.  The Munich appeal court scheduled March 2 new hearings in
one Kirch damage suit for April 18 and May 2. In the second case
pending at that court, no hearings have been scheduled,
according to court spokesman Wilhem Schneider.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  Court Filings  Paulson & Co. lawsuit Was Most Popular Docket on Bloomberg  A lawsuit over Paulson & Co.’s reported $468 million losses
in  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE)  was the most-read docket on the Bloomberg
Law system last week.  Investor Hugh Culverhouse, who seeks class-action status on
behalf of all investors who lost money in the hedge fund, filed
the complaint Feb. 21 in federal court in Miami.  “Defendants breached their fiduciary duties by conducting
a grossly negligent due diligence analysis of Sino-Forest’s
business operations that did not analyze the substantial risks
of holding a near-billion-dollar investment in a forestry
company based in China,” Culverhouse said in his complaint.  Sino-Forest’s shares dropped more than 80 percent in June
when Carson Block’s Muddy Waters LLC said the Hong Kong-based
company overstated its timber holdings. Sino-Forest denied the
allegations.  Paulson & Co., based in New York, told clients in a June
letter that it lost C$462 million since the end of May on its
Sino-Forest investment. The hedge fund had held 31 million
shares of Sino-Forest in May, or 12.5 percent of outstanding
stock, and had sold its entire stake as of June 17, according to
the letter.  “The lawsuit filed by Hugh Culverhouse against Paulson &
Co. is without merit,” the company said in a statement. “As in
all our investments, Paulson has access to the same information
that everyone else in the securities markets does. Like other
public market investors, we must rely on audits and underwriter
due diligence for comfort that financial statements and
disclosures are accurate and reflect the true state of affairs
at companies with publicly traded securities.”  The case is Culverhouse v. Paulson & Co., 12-cf-20695, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Florida (Miami).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 