-- Barclays’s Pension Fund Said to Plan $554 Million Sale
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2012-03-05T12:30:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/barclays-s-pension-fund-plans-554m-sale.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s pension fund is
planning to sell about 350 million pounds ($554 million) in
private-equity assets, three people with knowledge of the matter
said.  The Barclays Bank U.K. Retirement Fund hired advisory firm
 Cogent Partners  to manage the sale of the portfolio, which
comprises commitments in European and U.S. leveraged buyout
funds, said the people, who declined to be identified because
the process is private. Brenlen Jinkens, a spokesman for Cogent
Partners in  London , declined to comment.  “As part of our normal asset-management program, we
constantly review the balance of our portfolio and this includes
our private-equity holdings,” Barclays’s fund said in an e-mail
to Bloomberg News. “Recent changes in the market have seen the
development in a secondary market for private-equity holdings.
Whilst we are reviewing some of our holdings, this may or may
not result in changes to our portfolio.”  Barclays’s pension fund manages about 21 billion pounds in
assets for about 250,000 current and former employees of the
London-based lender. It joins pension and sovereign wealth funds
including California Public Employees’ Retirement System and
 Government of Singapore Investment Corp . in selling private-
equity investments as they cut the number of managers they are
willing to invest in following the financial crisis. Banks and
insurers including Lloyds Banking Group Plc and  Sweden ’s
Lansforsakringar AB are also selling commitments in the
secondary market because tighter regulation will make those
assets more expensive to hold.  Swedish Sale  Lansforsakringar, a group of 23 regional Swedish insurance
companies, is planning to sell as much as 1.5 billion euros ($2
billion) in private-equity assets, three people with knowledge
of the sale said last week. GIC, which manages more than $100
billion of  Singapore ’s reserves, is seeking to sell about $700
million in private-equity holdings, three people with knowledge
of the matter said in January.  Buyers looking to acquire the stakes, known as secondary
investors, last year raised about $10.2 billion, according to
Preqin Ltd., a London-based research firm. Secondary investors
including London-based Coller Capital Ltd. and the private-
equity unit of  Axa SA (CS) ,  Europe ’s second-largest insurer, are
seeking to raise $19.2 billion for similar purchases, Preqin
said.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  raised $2.9 billion for its fifth
fund that will purchase existing private-equity stakes, it said
last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
Sabrina Willmer in New York at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  