-- Bernanke Needs Bounce in His Tail: Stevenson and Wolfers
-- B y   B e t s e y   S t e v e n s o n   a n d   J u s t i n   W o l f e r s
-- 2012-03-05T23:58:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/bernanke-needs-some-bounce-in-his-tail-stevenson-and-wolfers.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  is trying out a new communication strategy that has the
potential to dramatically change the outlook for the economy.
The idea: By telling people more about its longer-term plans,
the Fed can stimulate the economy even when interest rates are
as low as they can go.  Unfortunately, Bernanke’s timid approach could doom the
strategy to failure.  To explain, we ask readers to suspend disbelief and join us
on a trip to the Hundred Acre Wood, where  Eeyore  and  Tigger  have
become central bankers. The wood’s economy is suffering the
repercussions of a recent honey binge. Both Eeyore and Tigger
want to help the recovery along, a goal they hope to achieve by
holding  interest rates  low for a long time. But each
communicates this differently.  Chairman Eeyore is a true dismal scientist, who sees bad
news everywhere. He’s sure the economy will be in the doldrums
for years. Indeed, he’s so worried that folks who don’t
understand his pessimistic outlook will make bad decisions that
he gives a speech warning them about it. He says the economy is
so weak that he’ll need to keep rates low for several years.  Eeyore’s message is so sobering that it mutes the desired
stimulus effect of the low interest rates. After all, why would
you buy anything, or invest in producing it, if you have just
learned that some of the smartest forecasters in the country
think the economic outlook is so awful that they dare not raise
rates until 2014?  Terrific Party  Chairman Tigger has a totally different approach. He
figures that the prospect of a terrific party will revive
everyone’s animal spirits. He also knows what folks are
thinking: Every time the economy gets going, the Fed spoils the
party by taking away the punch bowl -- that is, by raising
interest rates to keep inflation in check. So Tigger gives a
speech promising to keep interest rates low for several years --
even when the economy recovers.  The prospect of low interest rates sustaining a long and
robust recovery leads everyone to start spending. After all,
good times are just around the corner.  Eeyore and Tigger both did essentially the same thing.
They announced that interest rates would be low for several
years. But their messages are importantly different, and so
yield very different effects.  Economists  studied  this issue in the early 2000s, and
concluded that when you can’t push interest rates any lower,
Tigger’s strategy is best. Markets want to know that the Fed is
committed to helping the recovery and won’t risk it to fight the
specter of inflation.  More recently, a third great central banker -- Bernanke --
has also said he’s going to keep interest rates low for several
years. Will this speed the recovery, or hurt it?  Welcome to the arcane world of “forward guidance.” It’s the
hot topic among today’s central-banking glitterati, the perfect
marriage of necessity -- the central bank can’t reduce interest
rates any further -- and an intellectual fashion that views
business as rational, forward-looking and obsessed with monetary
policy.  The parable of Eeyore and Tigger shows there are some
difficult issues that need to be worked out. Eeyore is providing
what economists call “outlook guidance” -- he’s sharing what his
economic-forecasting team thinks about the future. By contrast,
Tigger is providing “policy guidance” -- telling us what the
central bank is going to do, and promising it will do it, no
matter what.  Eeyore’s Playbook  Is Bernanke trying to take a page from Eeyore’s playbook,
or from Tigger’s? In its latest monetary-policy  statement , the
Fed said it anticipates that economic conditions “are likely to
warrant exceptionally low levels for the federal funds rate at
least through late 2014.” Sounds just like Eeyore. Yes, rates
will be low, but only because the Fed is  forecasting  a weak
economy. The Fed “anticipates” low interest rates, but isn’t
promising them.  However much Fed officials want the benefits of Tigger’s
strategy, they are scared of the costs. If the economy recovers
fast enough, Tigger’s promise limits their ability to fight
inflation. But by retaining the flexibility to adjust rates as
economic conditions warrant, they have become Eeyore.  Small as it may sound, the distinction is important.
Businesses are always suspicious that Bernanke may try to sound
like Tigger, but revert to being Eeyore when the recovery
starts. To succeed at the game of forward guidance, Bernanke
needs to convince us he’s committed to low rates in the short
term even if the economy improves. It’s about fully embracing a
loveable tiger, or risk being mistaken for a miserable donkey.  It’s time, Chairman Bernanke, to bounce on your tail.  (Betsey Stevenson and Justin Wolfers, both professors
at the  University of Pennsylvania ’s Wharton School, are
Bloomberg View columnists. The opinions expressed are their
own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writers of this article:
Justin Wolfers at  jwolfers@wharton.upenn.edu  or Betsey Stevenson
at  betseys@wharton.upenn.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at   mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 