-- Best-Performing Stocks May Sink as Citigroup Economic Surprise Gauge Falls
-- B y   A n d r e w   T h e e n
-- 2012-03-05T16:24:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/best-performing-stocks-may-sink-as-economic-surprise-gauge-falls.html
Technology and consumer-
discretionary stocks could perform worse than other shares as
American economic reports struggle to beat rising forecasts,
according to Tobias Levkovich, chief U.S. equity strategist at
 Citigroup Inc. (C)   A drop in Citigroup’s Economic Surprise Index for the U.S.
is one of several concerns for the market in the short-term,
Levkovich said. The index, which measures the extent to which
economic reports beat or miss forecasts, fell to 45.10 on March
2 from 83.70 on Feb. 3, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Consumer-discretionary and technology shares show some of the
highest correlations to the Citigroup gauge and “are vulnerable
to a pullback,” the report said.  The  S&P 500  rose 8.9 percent this year through March 2 as
the  unemployment rate  fell to an almost three-year low of 8.3
percent, jobless claims have fallen to the lowest level since
March 2008 and data on consumer sentiment beat forecasts.
Technology companies performed the best of 10 industry groups,
rising 16 percent, while consumer-discretionary shares gained 11
percent for the third-biggest advance.  “Too many data points are signaling near-term caution, and
sticking to our disciplines always trumps emotions,” Levkovich
said in the report dated March 2. Because the gauge is based on
performance compared with estimates “one does not have to
predict any bad economic data in the months ahead to believe the
surprise index will move lower from current extended levels,”
which “may put some near-term downward pressure on stock
prices.”  Utilities, health-care and consumer-staples companies
perform better when the economic-surprise index slides,
Levkovich said, while financials were “not as correlated as one
would think despite capital markets sensitivity for diversified
financials or the insurance industry groups,” Levkovich said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Theen in New York at 
 atheen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  