-- Bible-Belt Republicans Skeptical of Romney May Revive Rivals
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-03-05T19:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/bible-belt-republicans-skeptical-of-romney-may-revive-rivals-aspirations.html
Jerry Helton, pastor of the House of
Prayer church in rural Blairsville,  Georgia , hasn’t decided who
he’ll vote for in tomorrow’s Republican presidential primary. He
does know who he won’t support:  Mitt Romney .  “Mitt being a conservative, that’s a concept a lot of
people are still getting used to,” said Helton, who oversees a
congregation of 700 people in the heart of the Chattahoochee
National Forest near the Tennessee border.  While Romney works to cement his lead in the overall race,
in the South the contest has centered on a duel between  Rick Santorum  and  Newt Gingrich . Both men, fighting to emerge as the
alternative to Romney, are counting on Southern evangelical
voters like Helton to keep their presidential aspirations alive.  In Georgia,  Tennessee  and Oklahoma, which cast ballots on
Super Tuesday, Christian evangelicals are likely to make up a
majority of voters. In 2008, self-identified evangelicals
constituted more than 60 percent of Republican primary voters in
 Georgia , exit polls showed. In Tennessee and Oklahoma, more than
7 in 10 were evangelicals.  “The socially conservative message is going to go over
well in the Southern states that have not been excited about the
perceived front-runner,” said Tony Perkins, president of the
 Family Research Council , a group opposed to abortion rights and
gay marriage. “They just don’t think Romney’s conservative.”  Southern Focus  Wins in the South this week may give the candidates a boost
as the race moves into Alabama and Mississippi, which hold
contests on March 13, and  Louisiana  on March 24. Only
Representative  Ron Paul  of Texas among the candidates has spent
little time in the region. Romney spent yesterday in Tennessee
and Georgia, a sign his campaign sees an opportunity to do well
in those states.  An American Research Group  poll  released yesterday showed a
tightening race in Tennessee, with 35 percent of likely
Republican voters favoring Santorum, 31 percent backing Romney,
20 percent supporting Gingrich and 9 percent in favor of Paul. A
Public Policy Polling  survey  in the state found Santorum leading
Romney by 5 points and Gingrich by 7 points.  Gingrich, 68, is counting on a strong showing in Georgia,
home of the district he represented in Congress for two decades,
to revive his campaign. He spent most of the past week stumping
in town halls, churches and party offices across the state.  Gingrich Leads Georgia  Gingrich led Romney, a former Massachusetts governor, by 14
points and Santorum, a former Pennsylvania senator, by 16 points
in a  survey  of likely Georgia voters by Mason-Dixon Polling &
Research for the Georgia Newspaper Partnership. Still, 39
percent of respondents said Romney has the best chance of
winning, the poll reported yesterday.  Santorum is seeking to make the case that social and fiscal
conservatives can determine the outcome of the primaries if they
don’t split their support between him and Gingrich, a onetime
U.S. House speaker.  “It’s always harder when you got two conservative
candidates running,” he said on “Fox News Sunday” yesterday.  Attending services with his wife and three of their seven
children at the Bellevue Baptist Church, a 7,000-member mega-
church in the Memphis suburbs, Santorum, 53, bent his head to
accept prayers from the congregation, which applauded when he
took the stage.  “We so desperately need for God to raise up godly people
who will run for office,” said Pastor Steve Gaines.  ‘Broken Families’  Campaigning in Tennessee and Georgia over the past week,
Santorum has argued that children born to unwed couples and
“broken families” increase government spending.  “Family is the foundation of our country,” he told
several hundred voters at a Hixson, Tennessee, church on Feb.
25. “We don’t need the government to fix things for us!”  He added: “True happiness comes from doing God’s will in
your life,” striking a contrast with Romney, a former private-
equity executive who has focused on economic growth.  “This is God’s country, baby,” said Denny Acres, a self-
employed computer consultant from Dalton, Georgia, who supports
Santorum. “We like conservative ideas.”  Earlier this year, Santorum, a Roman Catholic who has home-
schooled his children, emerged as the choice of 150 Christian
conservatives who met at a  Texas  ranch in an effort to
consolidate the opposition to Romney, a Mormon.  “Santorum exemplified that there’s been this coming
together around moral issues, since those issues have been at
the top of the agenda,’ said Clemson University Professor Laura
Olson, who specializes in religion and politics.  Attacks May Help  And while Santorum’s comments that President  Barack Obama 
follows “some phony theology” and the late President  John F. Kennedy ’s call for separation of church and state made him want
to “throw up” may make some voters uncomfortable, they help
conservative evangelicals identify with him, said Olson.  Last week, the Christian Post, an evangelical publication,
published an article, “Catholic politicians you thought were
evangelical.” Topping the list: Santorum.  “I’m really thankful for his faith and family because I’m
a Christian,” said Bethany Gentry, a 24-year-old mother who
works for a nonprofit organization and is backing Santorum.  Santorum has turned to evangelical networks to broadcast
his message.  The Susan B. Anthony list, an anti-abortion rights group,
ran a bus tour across the South last week to promote his
candidacy. Santorum has also tapped into home-schooling parents
through networks such as Facebook.  Watching for Him  Standing with her two sons outside the town hall building
in Dalton, Georgia, Pam Hall, a home-schooling mother, said she
encouraged friends and people at her church to attend a Santorum
event.  “The home-school community is kind of watching out for
him,” said Hall, a former public school teacher who lives in
Ellijay in northern Georgia.  As accepting as they are of Santorum’s Catholicism, some
Christian conservatives have struggled with Romney’s Mormon
faith.  “I don’t believe they are Christians,” said Pastor Woody
Rimes of First Baptist Church in McComb,  Mississippi .  In the 11 state contests so far, Romney has  performed  on
average 15 percent better among non-evangelical voters than with
evangelicals, according to the Pew Center for Religion in Public
Life.  Lacking Experience  Romney yesterday stopped in Knoxville, Tennessee, and
Snellville, Georgia, an area where he led former Arkansas
Governor  Mike Huckabee  in the 2008 Republican primary race.  At the Snellville pancake brunch in a high school cafeteria
packed with more than 1,000 people, Romney, 64, suggested that
his competitors lack the experience necessary to revive the
economy.  “The economy is what I do, it’s what I know,” he said.
“I haven’t just read about it, I haven’t just debated it, I
haven’t just talked about it in subcommittees.”  His campaign declined to predict a victory in either state.  “I don’t know if we can win Georgia or Tennessee, but I
know that we can take delegates out of there,” said  Eric Fehrnstrom , a Romney strategist. “More important than winning
this state or that state is achieving the requisite number of
delegates to obtain the nomination.”  Even if Romney loses states such as Georgia tomorrow, he’s
still likely to win Southern voters in the general election.
Republican presidential candidate  John McCain  won Georgia by 52
percent, Tennessee by 57 percent, and  Oklahoma  by 67 percent of
the vote in 2008.  Electability  Mark DeMoss, a Southern Baptist businessman who helps
Romney with outreach to social conservatives, said he’s urged
evangelicals to consider electability and economic experience.  “There’s not a distinguishable difference in these four
Republican candidates on social issues,” said DeMoss, who owns
a public relations business in Georgia. “You’ve got to have
another criteria to pick our candidate, and I would argue that
that criteria should be competence and electability.”  For some, socially conservative positions matter more.  “I’ve heard people ask, will we be any better off if
Romney goes in then if Obama goes in,” said Rimes, the
Mississippi pastor who’s still undecided. “My prayer is that
America will turn to God. We need a revival in this land.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Memphis, Tennessee, at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  