-- Biden Visits Mexico, Honduras Amid Calls to Debate Drug Strategy
-- B y   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-03-05T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/biden-visits-mexico-honduras-amid-calls-to-debate-drug-strategy.html
U.S. Vice President  Joe Biden  will
begin a visit today to Mexico and Honduras amid growing calls by
regional leaders to debate legalizing the consumption of drugs
as frustration with an American-led crackdown grows.  Five Central American presidents have said in the past week
they were willing to engage in regional discussions over a
change in policies, including the decriminalization of the use
of drugs, to reduce drug-trafficking that is fueling a rise in
violence and homicides in their region.  “If we keep doing what we have been when the results today
are worse than 10 years ago, we’ll never get anywhere,” Costa
Rican President Laura Chinchilla said in a Feb. 29 interview.
Mexico’s President Felipe Calderon, who has seen murders surpass
40,000 since he declared war on the nation’s drug gangs in 2006,
has also shown a willingness to debate new tactics.  The U.S., which in 2008 pledged $1.6 billion to fight drug
gangs in  Mexico  and Central America through the Merida
Initiative, remains unwilling to alter its opposition to drug
legalization. Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano, who
visited Central America last week, said it “is not the way” to
stop the flow of drugs.  Together with the half-century embargo against communist
Cuba, the U.S. anti-narcotics crackdown has long irritated  Latin
America , the source for most of the cocaine and heroin consumed
in the U.S. The U.S. has delivered  $13.1 billion  in anti-drug
aid to Latin America and the Caribbean from 1990 to 2008,
according to the  Congressional Research Service .  Obama Visit  That strategy may become a target of criticism by regional
leaders when President  Barack Obama  travels next month to
Colombia, the epicenter of the U.S. drug war abroad, for the
sixth Summit of Americas, according to  Michael Shifter ,
President of the  Inter-American Dialogue  in  Washington .  Biden today meets with Calderon to discuss economic,
immigration and security issues. About 80 percent of Mexico’s
exports are sent to the U.S. and growth in Latin America’s
second-biggest economy is closely-linked to its neighbor’s
recovery from the global financial crisis.  Mexico’s central bank Governor Agustin Carstens said on
Feb. 15 said the economy would grow 3 percent to 4 percent this
year and next. The peso has strengthened 9.2 percent against the
 U.S. dollar  this year, the biggest gain after Colombia’s peso
among major Latin American currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Post-Coup Visit  Biden will also meet with the candidates from Mexico’s
three major parties competing in a July 1 presidential election
before heading to  Honduras  tomorrow. In the Central American
country he’ll meet with President Porfirio Lobo as well as the
leader of Guatemala, El Salvador, Costa Rica and  Panama  to
discuss security and the region’s relations with the U.S.  Biden is the highest-ranking U.S. official to visit
Honduras since the 2009 military coup in which then-President
Manuel Zelaya was expelled from the country. Zelaya was ousted
by soldiers after the  Supreme Court  ruled that his push to
rewrite the constitution was illegal.  The U.S. broke with many countries in Latin America,
including Brazil, Venezuela and  Argentina , in recognizing Lobo’s
post-coup government. Since then tensions between those
countries and the U.S. has eased after Lobo allowed Zelaya to
return to Honduras and established a truth commission to probe
the causes of the coup.  Rising Violence  Violence in Central America has risen even after the U.S.
started the Merida Initiative to support  law enforcement  in the
region, a major transit zone for the cocaine that arrives from
 Colombia  by boat and then works its way north by land into
Mexico and over the border into the U.S.  Honduras has the
highest murder rate in the world, with 82 homicides per 100,000
residents in 2010, according to the United Nations  Office on
Drugs and Crime .  Corruption among security forces is blamed for much of the
violence. In January, Honduras’s Congress approved a law to
create a commission to “cleanse” the national police and
judicial officials. A specially-designated committee of national
and international officials will interrogate and administer lie
detector tests to security and judicial personnel beginning this
year, according to text of the law.  Lobo said last week that an “infinite number of human
lives” have been lost to drug violence and that as many as 22
people are murdered daily in his country.  Central American drug legalization talks were sparked last
month by Guatemalan President Otto Perez Molina, who shortly
after taking office said his government would “bring the debate
to the table.” The former army general said that “while drug
consumption is not being reduced, the problem will continue.”  Guatemala’s Vice President Roxana Baldetti met with the
presidents of Panama,  Costa Rica ,  Nicaragua  and Honduras last
week to discuss methods to combat regional drug traffic,
including possible legalization.  Economic Toll  The added value of cocaine passing through Central America
may equal about 5 percent of the countries’ gross domestic
product, according to the 2011 annual  report  of the
International Narcotics Control Board, an independent body that
monitors the implementation of UN drug conventions.  Colombian President  Juan Manuel Santos , who helped carry
out the U.S.-led anti-narcotics strategy as his nation’s defense
chief until 2009, called for a legalization debate last year and
likened the war on drugs to a stationary bike. Former Mexican
President Vicente Fox has also supported debate of the subject.  The murder rate in Mexico increased 65 percent from 2005 to
2010, including more than 20,500 homicides in 2010, according to
the UN. The Mexican government estimates that violence shaves
1.2 percentage points off economic output annually.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Williams in  San Jose , Costa Rica at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  