-- Bill Clinton Said to Agree to Join Obama at Campaign Fundraisers
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-03-06T05:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/bill-clinton-agrees-to-join-obama-fundraisers.html
Former President  Bill Clinton  has
agreed to make joint appearances with President Barack Obama at
a series of campaign fundraisers, according to three people
familiar with the matter.  The 42nd and the 44th presidents will appear together at
events in the coming months in  Los Angeles ,  Chicago  and New
York, according to one of the people. The New York fundraiser
will be attended by donors in the financial services industry,
said the person, who like the others spoke on the condition of
anonymity because they hadn’t been authorized to talk about the
events.  Ben Labolt, a spokesman for the Obama campaign, said
yesterday nothing has been put on the schedule. Clinton
spokesman Matt McKenna declined to comment yesterday.  While Obama raised $5 million on his last fundraising trip
to  New York , including $2 million from a March 1 event with
members of the financial services industry, he is collecting
less money from  Wall Street  this year compared with four years
ago, according to the Center for Responsive Politics.  Wall Street was Obama’s biggest source of campaign cash in
2008. In this election, employees of the securities and
investment industry and their families have given almost three
times more money to Republican Mitt Romney, a former private
equity executive, than Obama. Romney has collected $6.6 million
compared with $2.3 million for Obama through Jan. 31, according
to the Washington-based Center for Responsive Politics.  Donor Draw  The prospect of a meeting with Obama as well as the former
president, whose favorability rating was 67 percent in a Pew
Research Center poll last year, may entice more donors,
especially those who retain some loyalty to  Hillary Clinton , who
lost to Obama in the 2008 Democratic nomination contest, one of
the people said.  Democrats cheered the move and said it signaled a new stage
in the campaign.  “Given the volume of Republican super-PAC spending this
cycle and its impact on the course of GOP nominating process,
President Clinton’s personal support is the most effective
starter’s gun we have,” said Michael Meehan, a Democratic
strategist.  The show of Democratic unity comes as Republicans are in
the middle of a protracted primary fight.  “This is still another development that reinforces Obama’s
status as the frontrunner heading into the general election,”
said  Greg Valliere , the chief political strategist at the
Potomac Research Group in  Washington . “The Democrats are
amazingly united, with very little dissent, while the
Republicans have ripped themselves apart.”  Romney, former Pennsylvania Senator Rick Santorum, former
House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  and U.S. Representative Ron Paul are
contending for the Republican nomination. Eleven states are
holding contests tomorrow for the Republican race.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  