-- Billionaire Li Joins Sequoia Seeing Boon in AT&T Usage Cap: Tech
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-03-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/billionaire-li-joins-sequoia-seeing-boon-in-at-t-usage-cap-tech.html
AT&T Inc. (T) ’s decision to set caps on
heavy users of wireless data is infuriating to some people --
and a boon for startups like Onavo Mobile Ltd. that help reduce
consumption.  The 20-person company, based in  Tel Aviv  and  San Francisco ,
makes a free mobile application for Apple Inc. and Android
devices that compresses consumers’ mobile downloads, so they use
less data. In the past few weeks,  Onavo ’s daily download rates
have risen “hundreds of percent,” Chief Executive Officer Guy
Rosen said in an interview.  Onavo is just one of many companies U.S. consumers are
turning to in an effort to avoid overage fees and getting their
network speeds throttled. Another startup, Sunnyvale,
California-based  XVision , has seen weekly downloads of its data
usage-tracking app, called DataMan, jump 70 percent since mid-
February, said Johnny Ixe, the founder of XVision.  Venture capitalists are sensing an opportunity. In January,
Onavo raised its second round of funding, bringing its total to
$13 million. Its investors include  Sequoia Capital , Motorola
Mobility Ventures and Horizons Ventures, the venture capital arm
of billionaire  Li Ka-shing .  “The carriers are starting to force you to look at your
data, and you see a lot more people looking to save money,”
Brian Katz, a 42-year-old engineer in Oakland,  New Jersey , said
in an interview. Katz uses Onavo and Boingo Wireless Inc. to
reduce his AT&T and Verizon Wireless bills.  Shrinking File  If Katz wants to download a photo, the image first goes to
 Onavo ’s servers, which shrink the file before sending it on to a
carrier’s data network.  Boingo is a Wi-Fi service that allows Katz to send photos
and use social network Facebook Inc. on a mobile device without
tapping into his cellular data plan. In the fourth quarter,
Boingo’s subscriber base jumped 28.5 percent, according to a
transcript of the company’s earnings conference call.  “The reality is, the only sustainable model for the mobile
Internet is where there’s a price tag,” Onavo’s Rosen said.
“The supply is limited. Within this reality, there’s a dire
need for transparency and control, and for consumers to squeeze
as much as they can.”  Boingo is a paid service, with plans starting at $7.95 a
month. Onavo said it plans to introduce paid features later this
year.  Higher Prices  Many wireless carriers are ratcheting up their rates and
capping usage in response to skyrocketing mobile data use, which
is putting pressure on their networks. The strain on the global
mobile networks more than doubled last year, as consumers began
watching more mobile video and using tablets, according to
networking-equipment maker  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  The traffic will
increase 18-fold by 2016, reaching 10.8 exabytes per month, the
company said.  An exabyte is equal to about 250 million DVDs.  Last week, AT&T said customers will experience slower
access speeds if their data usage exceeds 3 gigabytes a month.
For customers with so-called long term evolution, or LTE,
devices, the limit is 5 gigabytes a month, the Dallas-based
carrier said. The move means millions of longtime customers may
need to deal with reduced speeds at some point in their billing
cycle, a nuisance that AT&T is betting will persuade them to
switch to its more expensive plans.  Carriers are struggling to keep up with the rising demand
because the amount of airwaves they have to send images and e-
mails between callers remains limited. Last year, AT&T tried to
acquire  T-Mobile USA  in large part for its airwaves, or
spectrum. It ended the $39 billion merger amid regulatory
obstacles.  Growing Traffic  The carriers already have begun raising prices, to
discourage heavy use and recoup spending on their networks
that’s needed to support escalating traffic. Tim Horan, an
analyst at Oppenheimer & Co., expects U.S. service providers to
increase prices on wireless contracts at a faster pace in the
coming years. An average wireless subscriber’s bill will rise by
5 percent -- or $2 -- a year, he said.  “They are going to either charge for usage more or
increase the minimum amount” paid for a data plan, Horan said
in an interview.  Throttling offers another way to slow down traffic growth.
The advent of throttling, or slowing down service for heavy
users, is somewhat akin to the oil crisis and gas rationing of
the ‘70s,  Roger Entner , an analyst at Recon Analytics in  Boston ,
said in an interview.  ‘Gas Guzzlers’  “The wonderful thing about smartphones is that they are
computers in your hand, but they are like cars from the ‘50s and
’60s, real gas guzzlers,” Entner said. “Now developers and
manufacturers have to be more aware and economical.” Consumers
will have to get in on conserving usage as well, he said.  The carriers are walking a fine line in trying to balance
their business needs and not alienating consumers. On Feb. 24,
Onavo started  dontthrottle.us , a website where hundreds of
consumers have reported their experiences of being throttled. In
February, user Matt Spaccarelli sued AT&T for throttling his
data usage and  won  in a small claims court in Simi Valley,
 California . He has since become something of a spokesman for and
hero to the throttled.  Steve Barker of Saint George,  Utah , is another angry
consumer. He has an unlimited plan with Sprint.  “The reason they are struggling is because they are
purposefully restricting spectrum to keep prices high,” he said
in a telephone interview.  AT&T’s  new data caps  only apply to existing customers with
contracts that include unlimited data, which the carrier has
stopped offering to new subscribers. The new limits represent a
change to a previous AT&T policy of reducing speeds to the 5
percent of unlimited users who used the most data.  Tiered Pricing  Instead of offering unlimited data, AT&T now sells so-
called tiered plans that include a certain amount of data at
various price points. In January, AT&T raised those plans’
prices by $5 a month and increased the capacity allowances.  AT&T’s tiered data plans cost $30 a month for 3 gigabytes
and $50 for 5 gigabytes, plus $10 for every gigabyte over those
limits. The longtime customers with the old unlimited plans
typically pay $30 a month. To reach 3 gigabytes, users would
have to stream about an hour of video or 3.5 hours of music, or
post photos to social network Facebook about 300 times every
day, according to  AT&T’s data calculator .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  