-- BlackRock Sees World’s Best Bond Hungarian Rally at Risk on Orban Defiance
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y   a n d   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2012-03-05T15:26:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/blackrock-sees-world-s-best-bond-rally-at-risk-after-orban-s-eu-defiance.html
The world’s best bond and currency
rally risks reversing as Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban 
stalls on conditions for a bailout, according to  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ,
Citigroup Inc. and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  The forint, the worst performer in the second half of 2011,
rebounded 9 percent against the euro this year as  government
bonds  returned 28 percent in dollar terms through the end of
last week, the biggest gains among 170 countries monitored by
Bloomberg. The cost of options contracts show traders are the
least bearish since August. The forint depreciated 0.9 percent
to 291.96 per euro by 4:14 p.m., the biggest drop in almost two
weeks on a closing basis.  While investors are betting a deal with the European Union
and  International Monetary Fund  will rescue Hungary in time to
repay its 15 billion euros ($20 billion) of debt due this year,
Orban has yet to change laws the lenders say threaten the
independence of the central bank and the judiciary.  “I would now be cautious about investing in the forint and
Hungarian bonds following the rally that we had,” said Beata Harasim, who helps manage the equivalent of $36 billion of
fixed-income assets for BlackRock, the world’s largest asset
manager. “The Hungarian government hasn’t yet taken sufficient
steps to bring its media and central bank laws in line with the
EU requirements. We don’t have solutions here,” she said in a
March 1 telephone interview from  London .  Stop Buying Bonds  Concern that Hungary may be months away from starting
bailout talks led Citigroup to tell investors to stop buying the
country’s benchmark 10-year bonds,  Luis Costa , a London-based
strategist at the bank, wrote in an e-mailed report today, after
meetings with officials in Budapest last week.  “We sense that the market has become quite complacent
towards the IMF-EU negotiations,” Costa wrote, closing a trade
recommendation to buy June 2022 bonds that was started on Feb.
13. “We found that there is no time line for the start of the
negotiations.  A second day of declines in the 10-year notes lifted yields
10 basis points to 8.667 percent.  Societe Generale SA recommends selling the forint against
the euro and targeting a weakening of the Hungarian currency to
300, Guillaume Salomon, an emerging-markets strategist, wrote in
an e-mailed note on March 1.  Hungary , the EU’s most indebted eastern nation, became the
first member to receive an IMF-led bailout during the global
credit crisis in 2008. Orban, since coming to power in 2010, has
nationalized $14 billion of private pension funds and levied
extraordinary taxes on energy, financial, retail and
telecommunication companies to push the  budget deficit  below the
EU limit of 3 percent of gross domestic product.  Forint Rebound  The forint and Hungarian bonds rebounded this year after
Orban said Jan. 5 he was ready to meet conditions for a
“quick” assistance package from the IMF.  Traders paring their bets against the currency sent the so-
called 25-delta risk reversal rate for the forint versus the
euro to within three basis points of the least bearish level
since August at minus 3.6 percent on March 2, compared with
minus 5.97 percent on Jan. 9. A negative rate signals greater
demand for forint puts, or the right to sell, relative to calls,
or the right to buy the currency. The risk reversal rate last
traded at minus 3.7.  Hungary is likely to obtain a bailout and that will support
the forint,  Koon Chow , a London-based strategist at  Barclays
Capital , said in a phone interview on March 1.  “We have been bearish,” Chow said. “Probably less
pessimism is warranted.”  Higher-Yielding Assets  Hungary’s rally was spurred by gains for higher-yielding
assets after the  European Central Bank  said it will lend
financial institutions a record 529.5 billion euros ($705
billion) to relieve liquidity strains.  “The ECB’s actions mean the prospect of capital outflows
from emerging  Europe  including Hungary are less,” said Chow.
“That together with a likely agreement at some later stage with
the IMF and EU should provide some backdrop for the forint.”  While Hungary said it needs a safety net from the IMF and
EU, it hasn’t received any indication of when bailout
negotiations may start, central bank President Andras Simor said
in an interview with news website Origo published on Feb. 27.  The EU still has “grave concerns” Hungary’s media law
undermines pluralism,  Neelie Kroes , the bloc’s digital affairs
commissioner, said on Feb. 9. The IMF needs to see “tangible
steps” from Hungary on policy issues before starting bailout
talks, Iryna Ivaschenko, the Washington-based lender’s
representative to Budapest, told investors in Budapest on the
same day.  Infringement Procedures  The European Commission started a so-called infringement
procedure against Hungary after the government cut the
retirement age of judges. The case may go to the  European Court 
of Justice, Justice Minister Tibor Navracsics said in an
interview on M1 television Feb. 28.  The government also expects to be in dispute with the
Commission over proposals to cut the central bank president’s
salary and change his oath of office, Navracsics said on Feb.
16, according to state news service MTI.  While Hungary had replied to written questions from the
Commission concerning the central bank, judiciary and data
protection agency, its answers were “vague,”  Viviane Reding ,
the EU’s justice policy chief, told reporters today in Brussels,
adding that the Commission would decide March 7 on the next
steps for the infringement procedures.  “The ‘pre-negotiation’ phase seems to be going nowhere
fast, with both sides becoming more entrenched,” Timothy Ash,
London-based head of emerging-markets research at Royal Bank of
 Scotland , wrote in an e-mailed note on Feb. 29.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net ;
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  