-- Boom-Era Property Speculators to Get Foreclosure Aid: Mortgages
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2012-03-05T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/boom-era-property-speculators-to-get-foreclosure-aid-mortgages.html
The Obama administration will extend
mortgage assistance for the first time to investors who bought
multiple homes before the market imploded, helping some
speculators who drove up prices and inflated the  housing bubble .  Landlords can qualify for up to four federally-subsidized
loan workouts starting around May, as long as they rent out each
house or have plans to fill them, under the revamped Home
Affordable Modification Program, also known as HAMP, according
to Timothy Massad, the Treasury’s assistant secretary for
financial stability. The program pays banks to reduce monthly
payments by cutting  interest rates , stretching terms, and
forgiving principal.  The government’s need to protect neighborhoods from blight
and renters from  eviction  by keeping the current owners in place
is outweighing concern that taxpayers will end up bailing out
real-estate investors. The program is being enlarged after less
than 1 million borrowers modified loans through HAMP, compared
with the administration’s stated goal in 2009 of helping 3
million to 4 million homeowners.  “When we started the program we focused on owner-occupied
houses because the need was so great and we wanted to target the
efforts to that group,” said Massad. “Given where we are
today, more and more people recognize that vacant properties are
a problem no matter how they became vacant.”  Homeownership Rate  Investors are central to the federal government’s strategy
for reviving real estate with  home prices  down 34 percent since
July 2006 and as foreclosures deplete the pool of buyers who can
qualify for a mortgage. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
told homebuilders in  Orlando , Florida last month that the U.S.
economic recovery has been “frustratingly slow,” in part
because weak housing markets are holding back  consumer spending .  The  homeownership rate , which peaked at 69.2 percent in
June 2004, fell to 66 percent in the fourth quarter of 2011,
according to the U.S. Census Bureau. A new  Fannie Mae  program
designed to reduce the overhang of foreclosed homes is
encouraging potential buyers, including private-equity firms, to
purchase properties in bulk and convert them to rentals. Almost
one in four home purchases in January was made by an investor,
according to the National Association of Realtors. And
investment and vacation properties made up 21 percent of houses
in the foreclosure process in January, according to Irvine,
California-based RealtyTrac Inc.  ‘Huge Change’  The Obama administration announced last month that it would
triple incentives to owners of mortgages that reduce home-loan
debt and expand eligibility to borrowers struggling under the
weight of other liabilities, such as medical bills. The
extension will apply to all loans, including those held by
Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac , the government-sponsored mortgage
financiers. About 700,000 landlords will be eligible under the
revisions to HAMP, which has been plagued by consumer complaints
about lost paperwork, servicer delays and restrictive
eligibility requirements.  “This is a huge change,” said Dan Immergluck, a housing
policy professor at Georgia Institute of Technology. “The
excessive concern to make sure nobody who played any role in
creating the problem gets any benefit has paralyzed the
response.”  The danger of blight to communities from  foreclosed , vacant
properties is still pervasive six years into the slump. Empty
houses push down a neighborhood’s property values, according to
a 2009 report by the Center for Responsible Lending, which said
foreclosures will affect 91.5 million nearby homes through 2012.
That will reduce property values by $20,300 for each household,
according to the group, which seeks to protect homeownership and
family wealth.  Buy-And-Flip Investors  By widening the program, the plan will inevitably offer aid
to buy-and-flip investors who pushed prices higher during the
boom by taking out mortgages with little or no down payment.
Speculators accelerated the crash because they were quick to
default when prices fell, according to a September report from
Andrew Haughwout, Donghoon Lee, Joseph Tracy, and Wilbert van
der Klaauw of the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York .  At the peak of the boom in 2006, more than a third of home
purchase loans were made to borrowers who already owned at least
one house, according to the study. In  California ,  Florida ,
 Nevada , and  Arizona , which had the most pronounced bubbles,
investors accounted for 45 percent of the mortgages.  While survivors of the property bust are now long-term
investors, some of them may have started out as flippers,
Haughwout said.  Taxpayer Dollars  While speculators are “no one’s first priority for
receiving taxpayer dollars,” providing assistance to a large
class of multiple property owners and “blanket modifications
offered regardless of occupancy” would be more efficient than
restrictive programs, the Fed said in the September report.  Chandrajit Bhattacharya, an analyst at Credit Suisse Group
AG in New York, said that the HAMP changes will result in about
200,000 modifications for investors. While it won’t keep
bondholders “up at night,” it will probably slow the process
of liquidating foreclosed homes.  Bhattacharya said he doesn’t understand why the government
should be subsidizing workouts for property investors who are in
the business of making money on their purchases. Vacancies are
unlikely to increase if the houses go into foreclosure and are
purchased by owner-occupants or new investors who fill them with
tenants, he said.  ‘Ridiculous’ Policy  John Burns , an Irvine, California-based real estate
consultant, said it’s “ridiculous” for taxpayers to come to
the aid of individuals who made bad bets.  “What kind of precedent are you going to set?,” Burns
said. “Are you going to refund people who lost money on the
stock market too?”  Government help to homeowners comes after President  George
W. Bush ’s administration rescued banks with the Troubled Asset
Relief Program in 2008, when the housing crash sparked the worst
financial crisis since the Great Depression.  Wall Street 
benefited from Federal Reserve emergency programs to keep credit
flowing, while Bush and President  Barack Obama  directed federal
money to save companies including  General Motors Co. (GM)  and
Chrysler Group LLC. The Obama administration then pursued a
series of programs meant to reduce foreclosures.  John Russell , 61, of Northville,  Michigan , said he was
never a speculator seeking to flip houses. He bought four rental
properties in neighborhoods in the state more than 10 years ago
and said he planned to keep them for decades more. Now the
houses are worth far less than he owes, his rents have tumbled,
and he has to spend about $20,000 a year to keep them operating.  Chrysler Bankruptcy  Russell, a retired Chrysler executive whose pension was cut
during the automaker’s 2009 bankruptcy, said two houses are in
foreclosure and he can’t afford to keep them without the federal
government’s help.  Banks have repeatedly rejected him for a modification
because they aren’t primary residences, he said. Russell said he
simply wants his mortgage bills to be brought in line with the
rents.  “I guess what you’re always asking yourself is the market
going to come back?,” Russell said. “As an investor you want
to think that some day the house will be worth more than it is
today.”  Moose Scheib, chief executive officer of LoanMod.com, a
Dearborn,  Michigan-based (MBASMI)  firm that advises homeowners facing
foreclosure, said many of the investors who hung on through
housing bust are “mom and pop” property owners who bought real
estate as a source of retirement income. Russell is one of his
clients.  “Our economy is in trouble, housing is in trouble,”
Scheib said. “Whether you’re fixing it on behalf of investors
or homeowners, it benefits everybody to do that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in  New York  at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  