-- Bounty Allegations Bring Ex-Saints Assistant Gregg Williams to NFL Meeting
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-03-05T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/bounty-allegations-bring-ex-saints-aide-gregg-williams-to-nfl-meeting.html
The coach at the center of an
alleged program to pay bounties for injuring opposing players is
to tell his story today to National Football League officials.  Gregg Williams probably will be asked to discuss his
involvement in alleged violations of the league’s bounty rules
while he was on the coaching staffs of the Buffalo Bills,
Washington Redskins and  New Orleans Saints , ESPN reported,
citing unidentified people familiar with the situation.  Williams, now defensive coordinator for the  St. Louis Rams ,
may also meet with NFL Commissioner  Roger Goodell  in New York,
the sports network said.  NFL spokesman  Greg Aiello  didn’t immediately return an e-
mail seeking comment on the report.  The NFL has increasingly handed out fines and suspensions
for illegal hits over the past three seasons. Pittsburgh
Steelers  Pro Bowl  linebacker  James Harrison  was suspended for
one game last year for his fifth illegal hit on a quarterback
over that span.  Harrison said yesterday on his Twitter account that we’ll
see “how concerned the NFL is about player safety when they
decide what the punishment for the Saints is.”  The NFL said on March 2 that the Saints’ bounty pool was
set up by Williams and may have reached as much as $50,000
during the 2009 playoffs, which culminated in the team’s first
 Super Bowl  title. Between 22 and 27 unidentified Saints players
were involved in the program during the past three seasons, with
as much as $1,500 paid for a specific hit, the NFL said.  Goodell’s Concerns  Goodell called the payments “particularly troubling” and
said he’d meet with the players’ union before determining
discipline for the Saints and those involved.  Williams said in a statement that the bounties were a
“terrible mistake and we knew it was wrong while we were doing
it.”  Disciplinary measures from the NFL may include suspensions
of a half-season or longer, the Washington Post said yesterday,
citing an unidentified person familiar with the deliberations.
The newspaper also said the NFL plans to investigate claims of a
bounty program during Williams’s tenure as the  Washington
Redskins ’ defensive coordinator from 2004 to 2007.  The investigation into the Saints began in 2010, when the
league heard the team was targeting Pro Bowl quarterbacks  Brett Favre  and  Kurt Warner . The investigation found that Saints
players and at least one coach regularly contributed to a pool
and received money based on their performance in the previous
week’s game. Payments were received for interceptions and fumble
recoveries, as well as for injuring opposing players.  Rules Violation  NFL rules prohibit players from receiving added pay for
performance against particular teams or opponents, or for on-
field misconduct such as injuring opponents or personal fouls,
according to a memo Goodell sends each year to all 32 teams.  “It’s a whole dark side of the game,” former New York
Jets defensive tackle Kris Jenkins, who retired in July because
of knee injuries, said in a telephone interview. “It’s a stain
on the NFL as far as its integrity. When these guys feel like
they can take the rules into their own hands -- what does the
NFL have to do?”  Saints players were paid $1,500 for a “knockout,” in
which an opposing player was unable to return to the game, and
$1,000 for a “cart off” in which an opponent was carried off
the field, the NFL said in a release. Payments doubled or
tripled during the playoffs.  Former  Buffalo Bills  safety Coy Wire told the Buffalo News
yesterday that there was financial compensation for delivering
hits that injured opposing players when Williams was the Bills’
coach from 2001 to 2003.  Career Ends  Wire cited a career-ending shoulder injury he inflicted on
 Detroit Lions  running back  James Stewart  with a legal hit during
a 2003 preseason game.  “I was showered with praise for that,” Wire told the
Buffalo News. “It’s a shame that’s how it was. Now I see how
wrong that was.”  Former Redskins safety Matt Bowen wrote in a column for the
 Chicago Tribune  that “bounties, cheap shots, whatever you want
to call them, they are a part of this game.” He said the pool
of money to pay players for big hits was collected throughout
the season from player fines.  Jenkins said he wasn’t aware the targeting of opposing
players was going on in the NFL.  “If I would have taken rules into my own hands I would
have been a monster,” Jenkins said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  