-- Brazil Rate-Futures Yields Climb as Inflation Forecast Raised
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-03-05T14:49:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/brazil-rate-futures-yields-advance-as-inflation-forecast-raised.html
Yields on Brazilian interest-rate
futures contracts advanced for the first time in five days after
economists raised their inflation forecast for a third week.  The yield on the contract due in January 2013 jumped four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 9.07 percent at 11:17
a.m. in Sao Paulo. Last week it fell to a record low 9.03
percent. The real was little changed at 1.7306 per  U.S. dollar ,
from 1.7304 on March 2.  Futures yields climbed after economists said consumer
prices will increase 5.2 percent next year, according to the
median forecast in a March 2 central bank survey of about 100
analysts published today, up from an estimate of 5.11 percent
the previous week and 5.02 percent two weeks ago. Policy makers
signaled in the minutes of their January meeting that they’re
likely to reduce the benchmark rate below 10 percent this year.  “The survey reflects a preoccupation in the market with
inflation,” Eduardo Galasini, head of treasury at Banco Banif,
said by phone from Sao Paulo.  Annual inflation slowed to 6.22 percent in January, after
exceeding the upper limit of the target for eight months last
year.  Brazil  targets annual consumer price rises of 4.5 percent,
plus or minus two percentage points.  Brazil is adopting a policy mix that has a dual goal of
fueling economic growth at the same time as it brings inflation
back to target, central bank President Alexandre Tombini said in
Senate testimony last week.  Selic Outlook  Tombini has trimmed benchmark borrowing costs by 200 basis
points since August. Traders are anticipating the central bank
will reduce the Selic rate by 50 basis points at this week’s
monetary policy meeting tomorrow and March 7, futures yields
show.  The real was little changed after earlier falling as much
as 0.3 percent after  China , Brazil’s biggest trading partner,
pared its economic growth target to 7.5 percent from an 8
percent goal in place since 2005, a signal that leaders are
determined to cut reliance on exports and  capital spending  in
favor of consumption.  China’s announcement was overshadowed by investor
speculation that recent currency measures taken by the
government will fail to stem inflows driven by lower  interest
rates  abroad, Galasini said.  “There’s a lot of money in the world, and it either goes
to U.S. Treasury bonds or to the Brazilian market,” he said.
“The central bank is trying to control the real, but the IOF
measure doesn’t solve the problem.”  The government said March 1 that it will tax foreign loans
and bonds by local companies that mature in three years or less.
That same day, the central bank said exporters will start paying
a 6 percent tax on some foreign loans. Policy makers have also
boosted dollar purchases in foreign-exchange markets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in  Sao Paulo  at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  