-- Buffett’s Gold Dis Baffles State Street’s Goolgasian
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2012-03-06T00:23:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/buffett-s-immunity-to-gold-bug-baffles-state-street-s-goolgasian.html
Warren Buffett  is a great investor,
says Christopher Goolgasian, a vice president at State Street
Global Advisors Inc., which markets a $74 billion gold fund. The
Oracle of Omaha just has it wrong when it comes to the metal.  “While he won’t own gold, he also never owned Apple (up
around 1,500% since January of 2000) or Google (up 530% since
August of 2004),” Goolgasian said of Buffett in a March 2
regulatory filing for SPDR Gold Trust, an exchange-traded fund
marketed by Boston-based  State Street Corp. (STT)   Goolgasian, a portfolio manager at the investment solutions
group, wrote that while Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc (BRK\A) . has
risen 105 percent since January of 2000, gold has climbed nearly
fivefold during the same period.  Buffett, in his annual letter to shareholders last month,
said investors should avoid gold because its uses are limited
and it doesn’t have the potential of farmland or companies to
produce new wealth. Achieving a long-term gain on the metal
requires an “expanding pool of buyers” who believe the group
will increase further, he said.  “What motivates most gold purchasers is their belief that
the ranks of the fearful will grow,” Buffett wrote in the
 letter , posted Feb. 25 on the company’s website. “During the
past decade that belief has proved correct. Beyond that, the
rising price has on its own generated additional buying
enthusiasm, attracting purchasers who see the rise as validating
an investment thesis. As bandwagon investors join any party,
they create their own truth -- for a while.”  ‘Fondle the Cube’  In his letter, Buffett estimated the world’s stock of gold
if melded together would form a cube of about 68 feet per side
and, when valued at $1,750 an ounce, amount to about $9.6
trillion.  For the same amount of money, an investor could acquire all
the cropland in the U.S. and buy Exxon Mobil Corp. 16 times,
while still having $1 trillion left over, Buffett wrote.  “You can fondle the cube, but it will not respond,” he
said.  Gold futures for April delivery settled at $1,703.90 an
ounce today on the Comex in  New York .  Buffett, 81, built Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire from a
failing textile maker into a firm selling insurance, energy, and
jewelry through acquisitions and stock picks. The company has a
market value of $194 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  ‘Greatest Investor’  In his note, Goolgasian, called Buffett “the greatest
investor of our time.” Still, that didn’t stop him from
questioning Buffett’s take on gold.  “It strikes us that Buffett believes that only asset
classes and investments that fit his specific investment beliefs
can be sensible investments,” Goolgasian wrote. “We, however,
are agnostic about how to beat the market. We just want to do
it.”  Buffett didn’t immediately return an e-mail sent to his
assistant,  Carrie Kizer , requesting a comment on State Street’s
filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  