-- California-Blend Gasoline Jumps on Chevron, BP Refinery Work
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-03-05T22:48:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/california-blend-gasoline-jumps-on-chevron-bp-refinery-work.html
California-blend gasoline in  Los
Angeles  and San Francisco strengthened for the first time in six
days on speculation that repairs at  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and  BP Plc (BP/) 
refineries may tighten supply.  Chevron flared sulfur dioxide at the  Richmond (CTRCCRUD)  oil refinery
last week after a hydrogen plant went down and a flare-gas
compressor malfunctioned, according to notices filed with Contra
Costa county regulators. BP plans to shut a coker, a crude unit
and an alkylation unit at the  Carson (BPCRCRUD)  plant for a maintenance
turnaround this month, two people familiar with the work said
Jan. 3.  Carbob in  Los Angeles (MOGLDB85)  rose 10.75 cents to a premium of 24.5
cents a gallon against gasoline futures traded on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  at 4:03 p.m. East Coast time, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The fuel previously fell for six
days as  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) ’s  Wilmington (VAWICRUD)  plant started units
following work and BP’s Carson refinery recovered from an upset.  San Francisco (MOGSD85P)  Carbob gained 10.25 cents to a premium of
21.5 cents against futures.  ConocoPhillips (COP)  plans to close the  Santa Maria (CPSMCRUD)  refinery in
California this month for a four-week maintenance turnaround,
according to a notice to San Luis Obispo County regulators.  Conoco Maintenance  Conoco is scheduled to shut the 44,000-barrel-a-day plant
west of Bakersfield, California, for “specialized inspections
and maintenance work,” the Houston-based company said in a
March 1 notice to the San Luis Obispo Air Pollution Control
District and the local community. It was unclear when the plant
would be taken out of service.  The Santa Maria plant processes mainly heavy, high-sulfur
crude oil into semi-refined products that are then delivered
across a 200-mile (320-kilometer) pipeline to Conoco’s 128,000-
barrel-a-day  Rodeo (CPACCRUD)  refinery in Northern  California .  “I can confirm there is planned maintenance underway at
our San Francisco refinery,”  Rich Johnson , a Conoco spokesman
in Houston, said in an e-mail March 2. “Details regarding the
specific units involved and the duration of the work are
considered proprietary.”  California-blend diesel, or CARB diesel, in  Los Angeles (DIEILCAD) 
gained 3 cents to a 20.25-cent premium against Nymex heating oil
futures, the highest level since Nov. 7. The same fuel in  San
Francisco (DIEISCAD)  rose 2.25 cents to a premium of 19.5 cents.  Jet fuel  in Los Angeles strengthened for the fourth day,
gaining 1 cent to a premium of 15 cents against Nymex heating
oil futures, the highest level since May 23.  Inventories (CALXREFP)  of the
 aviation fuel  fell dropped 7.9 percent to 3.5 million barrels in
the week ended Feb. 24, an 11-week low, according to the state
Energy Commission.  Portland Gasoline  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in  Portland (MOGHD87P) ,  Oregon ,
strengthened 7.44 cents to a discount of 5.56 cents a gallon
against gasoline futures.  Conoco will shut the 107,500-barrel-a-day Ferndale refinery
in Washington state for a turnaround beginning March 15, two
people familiar with the work said March 2. The company was
initially scheduled to begin work at the beginning of the month
and delayed it following a fire at BP Plc’s Cherry Point plant
nearby, they said.  The turnaround is expected to last 37 days, one person
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  