-- Canadian Dollar Declines for Second Day as China Derails Investor Optimism
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-03-05T22:07:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/canadian-dollar-declines-for-second-day-as-china-derails-investor-optimism.html
Canada ’s dollar weakened versus its
U.S. counterpart for a second day and fell against a majority of
its most-traded counterparts after China lowered its growth
forecast, crimping demand for higher-risk assets.  The currency touched the lowest level in almost a week
versus the greenback and dropped for the first time in five days
versus the yen. Canada’s central bank meets on March 8 to
determine interest rates, with all 25 economists in a Bloomberg
survey predicting no change from 1 percent. Crude oil gained and
stocks fell.  “The Canadian dollar is reacting to China’s news,” said
 Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) 
in Toronto. “The broad theme of central-bank liquidity and
extraordinarily low volatility seems to be leaving us with very
quiet markets.”  Canada’s dollar, nicknamed the loonie for the image of the
aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, depreciated 0.5 percent to 99.46
cents per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It touched 99.60
cents, the weakest level since Feb. 28. One Canadian dollar
purchases $1.0053.  Sutton cited 10 central-bank meetings, the Greek bond swap
and dual U.S. and Canadian employment numbers as events that may
drive markets this week.  Low Volatility  Implied volatility for one-month options on Canada’s dollar
versus the greenback increased from the lowest level in almost
five years. It touched 7.65 percent today after reaching 6.90
percent on Feb. 24, the least on an intraday basis since June
2007. Implied volatility, which traders quote and use to set
option prices, signals the expected pace of swings in the
underlying currency. The five-year average is 12 percent.  Canadian employers added 15,000 positions to payrolls last
month, after increasing them by 2,300 in January, according to
the median of 23 forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  Statistics
Canada  releases the  data  on March 9 in Ottawa.  The Bank of Canada will leave its benchmark  interest rate 
at 1 percent, where it’s stood for more than a year, until the
first quarter of 2013, according to the weighted average of 20
responses in a Bloomberg survey.  The Canadian currency on March 2 capped its strongest
weekly gain since January on speculation officials are
containing Europe’s debt crisis and as U.S. economic indicators
improve, bolstering optimism that quickening global growth will
raise demand for Canadian exports such as oil and copper.  China Paring  Government bonds  were little changed, with benchmark  10-
year (GCAN10YR)  yields at 1.97 percent after falling six basis points, or
0.06 percentage point, last week.  Two-year yields traded at 1.11 percent after rising three
basis points last week.  China  pared its economic growth target to 7.5 percent from
an 8 percent goal in place since 2005, a signal that leaders are
determined to cut reliance on exports and  capital spending  in
favor of consumption.  Officials will aim for inflation of about 4 percent this
year, unchanged from the 2011 goal, according to Premier  Wen
Jiabao ’s state-of-the-nation speech, delivered at the annual
meeting of the National People’s Congress in Beijing.  “We were a bit risk-averse going into the weekend; the
China slowdown has added to that,” said Kit Juckes, head of
foreign-exchange research at Societe Generale SA in  London .
“The Canadian dollar will perform much in line with risk
hesitation. I’m optimistic medium-term, but I think all of these
moves have run out of steam a little bit,” he said, referring
to recent gains in commodity-linked currencies.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.4 percent, and the
MSCI World Index of stocks dropped 0.5 percent. Crude oil gained
0.6 percent.  Gained Last Week  The Canadian currency outperformed 14 of its 16 most-traded
counterparts last week as the price of crude oil, the country’s
biggest export, touched the highest level since 2008. Jobless-
insurance claims fell and  consumer confidence  rose in the U.S.,
the nation’s biggest trade partner.  The Canadian currency ended March 1 at 98.55 cents, the
lowest closing price since Sept. 16.  “The daily close below 98.83 cents has reaffirmed the
bearish backdrop for the U.S. dollar versus the Canadian
dollar,”  George Davis , chief technical analyst for fixed income
and currency strategy at Royal  Bank of Canada  in Toronto, wrote
in a note to clients today. “Prices have returned above this
level as the risk backdrop adopts a more cautious tone to begin
the week. Prices will have to close above C$1.0151 in order to
signal a more material price correction is getting under way.”  Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said his plan to
return the country’s finances to balance in coming years is on
schedule, giving the government scope to reduce taxes and pay
down debt, potentially increasing the attractiveness of the
nation’s currency.  Speaking to reporters after meeting with private-sector
economists in Ottawa today ahead of his March 29 budget,
Flaherty said there is more optimism about the  U.S. economy 
since his last fiscal update in November, even though  Europe 
remains a concern.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  