-- FDA Skeptical Chemical in Sodas Harm Consumers
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2012-03-05T22:08:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/cancer-causing-chemical-found-in-coca-cola-pepsi-consumer-group-says.html
U.S. regulators, reviewing an
advocacy group’s complaint that a chemical used in colas causes
tumors in animals, said there’s no immediate risk to consumers
from the substance.  A person would have to drink more than a thousand cans of
soda in a day to match the doses administered in studies that
showed links to cancer in rodents, Douglas Karas, a U.S. Food
and Drug Administration spokesman, said in a statement.  The  Center for Science in the Public Interest , a consumer-
health group in  Washington , said in a statement today that high
levels of the chemical 4-methylimidazole were found in drinks
made by  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  and  PepsiCo. Inc. (PEP)  The chemical is part of
coloring used in colas and the subject of a  study  the group
released today. An industry group disputed the findings.  “This is nothing more than scare tactics,” the American
Beverage Association said in a statement today, calling the
claims “outrageous.”  The FDA has no reason to believe consumers are in danger,
the FDA’s Karas wrote in an e-mail. The agency is reviewing the
group’s petition, he said.  The consumer group said it commissioned laboratory studies
of products including Coca-Cola, Pepsi-Cola, Diet Coke, Diet
Pepsi, Snapple Group Inc.’s  Dr Pepper  and Diet Dr Pepper, and
Whole Foods 365 Cola from Washington-area stores.  “Coke and Pepsi, with the acquiescence of the FDA, are
needlessly exposing millions of Americans to a chemical that
causes cancer,” said Michael F. Jacobson, the Washington-based
group’s executive director, in a statement. “The FDA needs to
protect consumers from this risk.”  California Standards  Pepsi’s products,  Diet Coke  and regular Coca-Cola had
levels that were high enough to require a warning notice in the
state of  California , according to the center’s release.  The chemical was included on California’s list of
carcinogens even though there are no studies showing it causes
cancer in humans, the industry group said.  Diana Garza Ciarlante, a spokeswoman at Atlanta-based Coca-
Cola, said the chemical, also known as 4-MEI, poses no health or
safety risks.  “Unlike CSPI, The Coca Cola company deals in hard facts,”
she said in an e-mail. “ The body of science about 4-MEI in
foods or beverages does not support the erroneous allegations
that CSPI would like the public to believe.”  No regulator agency concerned with protecting the public
health has stated the chemical is a human carcinogen, she said.  Gillian Galasso, a spokeswoman at PepsiCo in Purchase,  New
York , didn’t respond immediately to a phone message seeking
comment.  Libba Letton, a spokeswoman at Austin, Texas-based Whole
Foods Market Inc., didn’t immediately return a call and e-mail
seeking comment, and a message left on the media relations line
at Dr Pepper Snapple Group in Plano,  Texas , wasn’t immediately
returned.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net  and Duane Stanford in Atlanta at 
   dstanford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  