-- McCain Calls for U.S. to Lead Airstrikes Against Syrian Government Forces
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2012-03-05T20:49:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/mccain-calls-for-u-s-to-lead-airstrikes-against-syrian-government-forces.html
Senator  John McCain  called for the
U.S. to lead an international effort to protect “key population
centers” in Syria through airstrikes on Syrian government
forces and air defenses.  “The ultimate goal of airstrikes should be to establish
and defend safe havens in Syria, especially in the north, in
which opposition forces can organize and plan their political
and military activities” against Syrian President Bashar al- Assad, McCain, an Arizona Republican, said today in remarks on
the Senate floor.  McCain is at odds with the Obama administration, which has
emphasized diplomatic pressure on Assad and opposed sending arms
or direct military intervention in the conflict to avoid further
escalating the bloodshed. Several Arab states, including  Saudi
Arabia  and Qatar, have said they favor providing arms to support
the Syrian opposition.  Syrian opposition forces, such as the Free Syrian Army, are
lightly armed and little match for Syrian tanks, as was shown in
the regime’s successful assault on Homs. Opposition forces
fought Syrian soldiers in at least three cities today.  McCain said the U.S. has a national security interest in
seeing the Assad regime --  Iran ’s Arab ally -- fall. He said
establishing civilian “safe havens” would protect opposition
population centers from Assad’s forces.  Aid, Weapons  “These safe havens could serve as platforms for the
delivery of humanitarian and military assistance -- including
weapons and ammunition, body armor and other personal protective
equipment, tactical intelligence, secure communications
equipment, food and water, and medical supplies,” said McCain,
the top Republican on the Senate Armed Services Committee.  “These safe havens could also help the Free Syrian Army
and other armed groups in  Syria  to train and organize themselves
into more cohesive and effective military forces,” he said.  Saudi Arabia said Gulf Cooperation Council members are
prepared to participate in any joint effort to help Syrians
protect themselves from the Assad government, the Saudi Press
Agency reported March 2.  In addition to striking tanks and other heavy weapons
threatening civilians, McCain said aircraft would need to target
Syrian air defenses “in at least part of the country.”  McCain said the city of Homs “is lost for now” while
intervention can protect other cities from similar attacks by
Syrian forces.  ‘National Security Interest’  “Despite a year’s worth of diplomacy backed by sanctions,
Assad and his top lieutenants show no signs of giving up and
taking the path into foreign exile,” McCain said. “To the
contrary, they appear to accelerating their fight to the finish.
And they are doing so with the shameless support of foreign
governments, especially in  Russia ,  China , and Iran.”  The U.S. has a “clear national security interest” in
seeing that Assad fails and that there is new leadership in
Syria, he said.  “The end of the Assad regime would sever Hezbollah’s
lifeline to Iran, eliminate a long-standing threat to  Israel ,
bolster Lebanon’s sovereignty and independence, and inflict a
strategic defeat on the Iranian regime,” he said. “It would be
a geopolitical success of the first order. More than all of the
compelling moral and humanitarian reasons, this is why Assad
cannot be allowed to succeed and remain in power.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  