-- CDB Says Banks Shouldn’t Cut Off Financing for Local Government Projects
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-05T12:33:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/cdb-says-banks-shouldn-t-cut-off-financing-for-local-government-projects.html
China Development Bank Corp. (SDBZ) , the
largest lender to the country’s local government financing
vehicles, said creditors shouldn’t be forced to cut off funding
to the companies, causing them to interrupt projects.  The vehicles, set up by local governments to sidestep rules
barring them from directly taking bank loans or selling bonds,
had accumulated 10.7 trillion yuan of debt at the end of 2010,
with 70 percent of the borrowings due for repayment by 2015, the
National Audit Office said in June.  China  Development Bank’s
loans to these companies exceed 2 trillion yuan, Vice President
Wang Yongsheng said in an interview today.  “The local government financing platforms aren’t designed
for one-off deals” and China Development bank has “set rather
long terms,” Wang said. “A project, if stopped halfway, would
become a problem.”  China has tightened control on  lending  to local financing
vehicles on concerns some will be unable to pay their debt as
economic growth slows, saddling the nation’s banks with bad
loans. Premier  Wen Jiabao , in his annual state-of-the-nation
address to the National People’s Congress, said today the
central government will control the level of new local debt,
including setting up an early-warning system on leverage.  Local projects financed by loans from  China Development
Bank  have performed well, Wang said. It has “almost no bad
loans” from extending credit to local governments, he said.  Bank of China Ltd.  Chairman Xiao Gang echoed Wang’s
comments. Xiao said the non-performing loans ratio for its
lending to local governments was less than 1 percent. Many of
the local government finance vehicles used their funds for
infrastructure and many of these projects are good assets, he
told reporters in Beijing today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at 
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  