-- Chavez Says Tumor Removed in Cuba Cancerous as He Awaits Radiation Therapy
-- B y   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s   a n d   J o s e   O r o z c o
-- 2012-03-05T04:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/chavez-says-removed-tumor-was-cancerous.html
Venezuela ’s President  Hugo Chavez 
said a tumor removed last week by doctors in Cuba was cancerous
though claimed that the disease hadn’t spread to other parts of
his body.  Chavez, making his first television appearance since
traveling to Havana Feb. 24 to undergo surgery, didn’t say when
he’d return to Venezuela, where he’s preparing to run for re-
election in October.  “As I said in Caracas, it was most likely that the lesion
was malignant,” Chavez, wearing a red shirt and surrounded by
members of his Cabinet, said on a video recorded March 3 in Cuba
and broadcast on Venezuelan state television yesterday. “The
entire lesion, measuring two centimeters, was removed. But
almost everything indicated that it was likely cancerous, what
they call a recurrence.”  Chavez, 57, said he will undergo radiation therapy once the
scarring process finishes and doesn’t rule out other kinds of
treatment. Doctors determined that there was no metastasis in
his body, he said in the 90-minute appearance in which he tried
to project the image of leadership Venezuelans have grown
accustomed to during his 13-year rule by invoking his 19th
century political hero  Simon Bolivar , discussing his
government’s policies and even breaking into song.  The former paratrooper is recovering from an operation to
remove a lesion from the same pelvic area from which doctors
removed a baseball-sized tumor about eight months ago. Chavez
has declined to say exactly what kind of cancer he has or allow
access to his medical records. Since last year he’s undergone
four rounds of chemotherapy.  ‘Like the Condor’  Chavez said his vital signs, including  blood pressure , were
favorable and that he had no fever, hemorrhages or infections.
Scarring is occurring at a normal pace, and digestion also is
normal, Chavez said.  “The recovery is real, sustained, progressive and fast,”
said Chavez. “I am flying like the condor.”  Venezuelan debt returned the most in emerging markets last
month as investors boosted holdings of the oil producer’s bonds
on speculation that Chavez’s deteriorating health will prevent
him from seeking re-election.  The nation’s bonds returned 14 percent through Feb. 28,
compared to 7.4 percent for the  Ivory Coast , 5.2 percent for
 Vietnam  and 3.1 percent for Belarus, according to JPMorgan Chase
& Co.’s EMBI Global index. Year-to-date, Venezuela’s dollar
bonds have returned 23 percent.  Call for Unity  Accompanied by Foreign Minister Nicolas Maduro and other
ministers, Chavez said he’s been supervising his cabinet, while
following doctors’ orders not to work. Chavez discussed his
government’s housing and employment programs and rejected what
he called aggression against  Syria .  Chavez said he is in good shape to receive radiation
therapy, adding that he would later provide more information on
the treatment. His doctors are optimistic, Chavez said.  As the broadcast ended, Chavez called for unity within his
United Socialist Party amid opposition speculation of infighting
about who would succeed him if he’s unfit to compete in the
October vote. Vice President Elias Jaua, speaking in an
interview earlier yesterday, said no one in the party aspires to
be Chavez’s successor.  “We will live and we will conquer,” Chavez said at the
end of the video. “We are human and we are extinguishable,
especially when you lead a life like mine, with years that
seemed like a hundred.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  