-- China Considers Expanding Yuan Trading Band to Reflect Demand, Xinhua Says
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2012-03-05T17:26:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/china-considers-expanding-yuan-s-trading-band-xinhua-reports.html
China  may “appropriately” widen
the yuan’s trading band to better reflect market supply and
demand, the official Xinhua News Agency reported, citing
People’s Bank of China Governor Zhou Xiaochuan.  Zhou said the yuan has gradually met the requirements to
become more of a free-floating currency, Xinhua reported. As
China improves its industrial structure and gradually reduces
its  trade surplus , the yuan is now moving “very close” to a
“balanced level,” Xinhua reported in English, citing Zhou.  The Chinese yuan, also called the renminbi or RMB, has
appreciated 32 percent since July 2005 when the government
abandoned a peg to the  U.S. dollar . The central bank announces a
central parity for the yuan against nine other currencies every
trading day and then allows the yuan to strengthen or weaken by
0.5 percent from the rate. It has drawn criticism from the U.S.,
which says the practice hurts its manufacturers.  “The RMB  exchange rate  has gradually met the requirements
for greater floating,” Zhou told Xinhua in an interview at
China’s annual parliamentary session. “The PBOC is considering
that the yuan’s daily floating band could be increased.”  The central bank last expanded the yuan’s trading band
against the dollar from 0.3 percent to 0.5 percent in May 2007.
A phone call to the central bank’s press office went unanswered
after business hours in Beijing.  The suggestion control over the yuan may be loosened
signals that policy makers may reduce dollar purchases that
limit gains in the currency because it is now closer to an
equilibrium level determined by the current account balance,
said Jeremy Brewin, who oversees about $4 billion of emerging-
market debt at Aviva Investors in  London .  ‘Healthy Development’  “They won’t intervene much to support or weaken the
currency if there’s normal trading,” Brewin said by phone.
“It’s a healthy development.”  The surplus in China’s current account, the broadest
measure of trade and services, probably narrowed to 3 percent of
gross domestic product in 2011, the State Administration of
Foreign Exchange said in a statement last month. The surplus
will shrink further to 2 percent of GDP next year, from more
than 10 percent in 2007, according to the median forecast of six
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The central bank has been buying dollars to slow the yuan’s
appreciation and reduce costs and exchange-rate volatility for
Chinese exporters. The practice has seen foreign-currency
reserves jump four-fold to $3.2 trillion since the end of 2005.  U.S. Bill  U.S. lawmakers accuse China of keeping the currency
artificially weak, undermining U.S. manufacturers. The Senate
last year approved a bill that would let U.S. companies seek
tariffs to compensate for China’s undervalued yuan. The
legislation has stalled in the  House of Representatives .  Allowing the currency to trade more freely is for China’s
“own benefit,” said Brewin. “It’s a pretty sensible in the
medium to long-term because they are no longer seen as someone
who is eating into a limited global export market.”  The yuan declined to its weakest level in almost a month in
 Shanghai  today on speculation policy makers will slow
appreciation as growth in  Asia ’s biggest economy decelerates.
The central bank weakened the currency’s daily fixing by the
most since November 2010 today, setting it 0.22 percent lower at
6.3121 per dollar.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  set an economic growth target of 7.5
percent for this year, the slowest rate since 2005, in a speech
at the National People’s Congress in Beijing today. The world’s
second-largest economy expanded 8.9 percent in the last three
months of 2011, the least for 10 quarters, as  Europe ’s debt
crisis eroded export demand and a cooling housing market slowed
investment.  ‘Flexible’ Yuan  Wen also told the country’s top legislature today that
China will improve the mechanism for setting the exchange rate,
make the currency regime more “flexible,” and keep the yuan
“basically stable at an appropriate and balanced level.”   Twelve-month non-deliverable yuan  forwards traded at 6.29
per dollar, indicating traders are betting that the currency
will appreciate over the next year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The yuan will strengthen to 5.92 per dollar by the
end of 2013, according to the median of 14 analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  China will adopt a gradual approach to currency reform as
the nation seeks to keep economic growth stable amid a shrinking
global export market, said Win Thin, global head of emerging
markets strategy at at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York  “It will be a very gradual move, especially in the current
environment,” Thin said. “I wouldn’t expect anything
imminent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Joshua Fellman at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net ;
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  