-- China to Tighten Oversight of Telecom Charges, Open Investment
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-05T04:06:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/china-to-tighten-oversight-of-telecom-charges-open-investment.html
China  plans to “tighten oversight”
of charges for telecommunications services and open the industry
to more private investment.  The government in the world’s largest mobile phone market
by users said it seeks to “standardize” telecommunications
services, according to a draft plan of 2012 goals released by
the  National Development and Reform Commission  today.  “We will expand the trials for integrating the
telecommunications network, the radio and television
broadcasting network, and the Internet,” the commission said in
the report that was released as China opened its annual National
People’s Congress. “We will implement and improve policies and
measures to promote the development of the non-public sector.”  The NDRC, a government agency that sets industrial policy,
in November announced an anti-monopoly probe of Internet
services supplied by  China Telecom Corp. (728)  and  China Unicom (Hong
Kong) Ltd. (762)  The investigation sought details on pricing, volume
and sales for its bandwidth-leasing business.  Currently all of China’s phone and broadband Internet
carriers are state-owned, with foreign investors limited to
minority holdings in publicly traded units listed in  Hong Kong .  China Mobile Communications Corp. (JLCBHZ)  is the nation’s largest
wireless carrier, with a total of 655 million subscribers at the
end of January. It is the parent of Hong Kong-listed  China
Mobile Ltd. (941)   China United Network Communications Group (CHTZ) , parent of
Hong Kong-listed Unicom, was second with 203 million mobile
users.  China Telecommunications Corp. (CNTELZ) , parent of Hong Kong-listed
China Telecom Corp., had 129 million wireless users at the end
of January.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  