-- China May Start High-Yield Bond Trials in First Half, CSRC Chairman Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-05T20:08:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/china-may-start-high-yield-bond-trials-in-first-half-csrc-chairman-says.html
China may allow companies to sell
high-yield bonds on a trial basis as soon as the first half as
the government seeks to aid businesses struggling for funding,
the head of the nation’s securities regulator said.  The  China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRZ)  hopes to allow
sales of high-yield bonds as early as possible and may be able
to start trials in the first six months of this year, Chairman
 Guo Shuqing  told reporters after attending legislative meetings
held in Beijing yesterday.  China raised  interest rates  three times last year as part
of a campaign to curb  inflation  and rein in  home prices , which
also reduced the availability of financing for small and medium-
sized businesses. Guo said in an interview with the official
People’s Daily newspaper last month that the regulator was
studying ways to help smaller companies raise funds through the
sale of debt.  The companies selling the high-yield debt will be rated
between BBB to AA-, said Zhou Yuanfan, vice president at
Pengyuan Credit Rating Co. Ratings of AA or below in  China 
denote similar credit worthiness as so-called junk ratings
abroad, according to China International Capital Corp. the
nation’s biggest investment bank.  China has encouraged companies to raise more funds by
selling stocks and bonds in a campaign to wean them from a
dependence on state-owned banks and increase the transparency of
their finances.  The nation’s bond market needs to increase its innovation,
the People’s Daily, published by the Communist Party, cited Guo
as saying. The nation’s stock and bond markets still
“seriously” lag the behind the demands of the real economy,
Guo said in the interview published March 1.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at 
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  