-- Chinese Stocks Trades in U.S. Drop Most in Two Weeks as Growth Target Cut
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-03-05T16:51:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/chinese-stocks-trades-in-u-s-drop-most-in-two-weeks-as-growth-target-cut.html
Chinese equities traded in the U.S.
fell the most in two weeks after the government pared the
nation’s economic growth target for the first time since 2005.  China Life Insurance Co. (LFC) , the nation’s largest life
insurer, fell the most in almost three months, leading a 2
percent slide in the  Bloomberg China-US 55 index  of the most-
traded Chinese stocks in the U.S. Commodity producers  Yanzhou
Coal Mining Co. (YZC)  and Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. also tumbled as
metal prices sank and coal stagnated.  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  cut the economic growth target
for this year to 7.5 percent from the 8 percent level in place
since 2005 in an address to a National People’s Congress meeting
today, saying the nation needs to shift to a more sustainable
economic model. China may “appropriately” widen the fixed
trading band for the yuan as it gradually reduces the  trade
surplus , the official Xinhua News Agency reported, citing the
People’s Bank of China Governor Zhou Xiaochuan.  A lower growth target “is an indicator of a soft
landing,” said Michael A. Gayed, chief investment strategist in
 New York  at Pension Partners LLC, which advises on over $150
million in assets and invests in Chinese stocks through
exchange-traded funds. “There has been this concern that you’ll
have a substantial decline in China’s growth rate.”  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., sank 2.9 percent, the most
since Feb. 10, to $39.09 by 11:26 a.m. in New York. The
Bloomberg China-US 55 index slid to 106.45, headed for its
lowest close since Feb. 10.  ‘Slower Growth’ Reality  By showing that it expects slower economic expansion, “the
central government is sending a signal to local governments that
this year is not all about growth and that the external
situation is a bit worse so that we have to accept as a reality
of slightly slower growth,”  Wang Tao , a China economist at UBS
AG, said in an interview with Bloomberg Television today.  Beijing-based China Life’s American depositary receipts
dropped 5.8 percent to $43.99, the biggest intraday slump since
Dec. 12. The ADRs, each representing 15 common shares, traded 1
percent  below  the stock in  Hong Kong , which declined 4.4 percent
to HK$23, the equivalent of $2.96 per share.  Yanzhou Coal  retreated 4.5 percent to $23.39 in New York,
poised for the lowest close since January 13. ADRs of China
Aluminum, known as Chalco and also based in Beijing, dropped 4
percent to $13.05.  Copper slipped the most in two weeks in New York and
nickel, zinc, lead and aluminum all declined in London trading.
Chinese benchmark thermal coal at Qinhuangdao port was unchanged
from a week earlier at 760 yuan ($121) to 770 yuan a metric ton
as of yesterday, according to data from the  China  Coal Transport
and Distribution Association. Prices declined over the past
three weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  