-- China Money Rate Drops for Seventh Day on Wen’s Policy Pledge
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2012-03-05T09:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/china-money-rate-drops-for-seventh-day-on-wen-s-policy-pledge.html
China ’s money-market rate fell for a
seventh day, the longest run of declines since 2008, after
Premier  Wen Jiabao  pledged to maintain a “prudent” monetary
policy and set the nation’s growth goal at the least since 2004.  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, also slid after the central bank didn’t
gauge demand for bill sales this week, according to a trader at
a primary dealer required to bid at the auctions. The PBOC
estimated demand for 28- and 91-day  repurchase agreements , the
trader said. China will target 7.5 percent growth this year, Wen
said in a state-of-the-nation speech in Beijing today.  “The government has signaled that it’ll carefully inject
money into the system when the situation proves necessary,”
said  Frances Cheung , a Hong Kong-based senior strategist at
Credit Agricole CIB. “The seven-day repo rate should hover
around 3 percent to 3.5 percent as Wen has hinted the government
won’t ease monetary policy aggressively to pump up growth.”  The seven-day repo rate fell 12 basis points, or 0.12
percentage point, to 3.15 percent as of 4:56 p.m. in  Shanghai ,
according to a weighted average compiled by the National
Interbank Funding Center.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repo rate, fell two basis points
to 3.32 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
yield on the 3.94 percent government bonds due January 2021 rose
one basis point to 3.58 percent, according to quotes provided by
the Interbank Funding Center.  -- Editors: Andrew Janes, Ven Ram  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 