-- China Plans Lower Budget Deficit for This Year as Economic Growth Cools
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-05T05:12:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/china-plans-lower-budget-deficit-for-this-year-as-economic-growth-cools.html
China  plans to run a  budget deficit 
little changed from last year as the government targets lower
economic growth amid a slowdown in the  property market  and
weaker demand for exports.  The gap will narrow to 800 billion yuan ($127 billion) in
2012 from 850 billion yuan last year, the  Ministry of Finance 
said in its budget report to the National People’s Congress in
Beijing today. The shortfall will amount to about 1.5 percent of
the nation’s gross domestic product, it estimated.  China’s ruling Communist Party said in December it will
implement a “proactive” fiscal policy for the fourth year to
boost consumption as it seeks to sustain growth while reducing
the nation’s dependence on investment and exports for expansion.
Premier  Wen Jiabao , who today set a growth target of 7.5 percent
for 2012, has pledged to adjust taxes and boost spending on the
environment, energy and water conservation to tackle rising
pollution.  “This is a ‘steady as she goes’ budget,” said  Stephen
Green , chief Greater China economist at Standard Chartered Bank
Plc in  Hong Kong . “The economy doesn’t seem to need a big
stimulus at the moment, but if there was a more significant
slowdown the government would call the finance ministry to ask
them what they’ve got.”  Stimulus Wind-Down  China’s growth may moderate to about 8.5 percent this year,
the Ministry of Industry and  Information Technology  estimated in
a statement on its website on Feb. 29. The economy expanded 9.2
percent in 2011, slowing from 10.4 percent the previous year, as
the government wound down a two-year fiscal stimulus introduced
in late 2008 to shield the nation from the global financial
crisis.  Wen’s growth target for this year, announced in his report
to the National People’s Congress, is the lowest since 2004.  Fiscal spending will rise 14.1 percent this year to 12.43
trillion yuan and revenue will grow 9.5 percent to 11.36
trillion yuan, excluding transfers from the budget stabilization
fund, the  finance ministry  said. The government will move 270
billion yuan from its stabilization fund, taking total fiscal
revenue to 11.63 trillion yuan, according to the report.  The stabilization fund is a “rainy day” fund where excess
fiscal revenue is deposited and then released when needed,
according to the ministry.  Lower Deficit  “The deficit may be set lower but this can still be an
expansionary fiscal policy - the key is how they spend the
money,” said Yao Wei, a Hong Kong-based economist with Societe
Generale SA. “Spending on areas such as education, health and
social protection instead of public investment would be strongly
positive for household consumption, which is exactly what China
needs.”  Central government expenditure on issues that “directly
affect people’s lives,” including education, medical and health
care, social security and housing, will rise 20 percent to 1.38
trillion yuan, according to today’s report.  The ministry also pledged to reduce the tax burden on
logistics companies and businesses that produce and distribute
farm products, and take other measures to cut logistics costs.
It will provide subsidies to local governments to phase out
tolls on government-financed so-called Grade II highways.  China’s  food inflation  averaged 11.7 percent last year,
more than double the pace of total consumer-price gains. Premier
Wen pledged last year to reduce transport costs as part of
efforts to bring down food prices.  ‘Strictly Controlled’  A national audit report last year found companies set up by
local governments to fund infrastructure had racked up debts of
10.7 trillion yuan by the end of 2010. The ministry said today
new local government debt would be “strictly controlled,”
existing loans would be cleared up “in a step-by-step manner”
and responsibility for repaying them clarified.  The report didn’t refer to any expansion of trials that
started last year allowing some local authorities to issue their
own bonds for the first time to alleviate the debt burden on the
local government financing vehicles.  The amount of bonds the ministry issues on behalf of local
authorities will rise by a quarter to 250 billion yuan this year
to fund low-income housing and public welfare projects,
according to today’s report.  The government started issuing debt for local governments
in 2009 to help them fund infrastructure projects as part of a 4
trillion yuan stimulus plan announced in November 2008 to
cushion the economy from the impact of the global financial
crisis. The finance ministry issued 200 billion yuan in 2009,
2010 and 2011.  Low-Income Housing  As part of a campaign to rein in property prices and make
housing more affordable, the government last year announced a
plan to build 36 million units of low-cost housing from 2011 to
2015.  Central government funds to “guarantee adequate housing”
this year will rise 23 percent to 212 billion yuan, while the
amount of money for low-income housing projects, rural housing
renovation and subsidies will increase 25 percent to 179 billion
yuan, the ministry said today. Local governments are expected to
spend 62.5 billion yuan of their own funds on low-income
housing, it said.  Central government spending this year on social security
and employment will rise 22 percent, funds for education will
increase 16 percent, and expenditure on agriculture, forestry
and water conservation will rise 14.8 percent, according to
today’s report.  Energy Targets  Even as Premier Wen warned today that targets for energy
conservation and emissions reductions aren’t being met, growth
in spending on energy conservation and environmental protection
will lag the pace of total fiscal spending this year, rising by
9 percent, according to the finance ministry.  Central and local government fiscal revenue from individual
income tax is forecast to drop 6.4 percent this year after the
ministry raised the monthly threshold and reduced the number of
tax payers by 60 million.  The ministry is also budgeting an 18.6 percent drop in
local government revenue raised through the sale of land-use
rights to 2.7 trillion yuan, according to the report.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Regina Tan in Beijing at 
 rtan87@bloomberg.net ;
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  