-- Chinese Copper Buyers Stocked Up on Weak Prices, Glencore Says
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-03-05T14:51:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/chinese-copper-buyers-stocked-up-on-weak-prices-glencore-says.html
Copper buyers in  China , the world’s
biggest consumer of the metal, took advantage of fourth-quarter
price weakness to stock up, said  Glencore International Plc (GLEN) .  Following are comments on industrial-metals markets made
today in a statement by the Baar, Switzerland-based company. Net
income before exceptional items at Glencore, the world’s largest
publicly traded commodities supplier, rose 7 percent to $4.06
billion in 2011.  On aluminum and alumina markets:  “Arbitrage opportunities in aluminum were more favorable
in 2011, with increased opportunities for inventory financing
transactions and cash-and-carry deals.  “The more recent decline in prices has increased producer
margin pressure, with many no longer able to cover their
production cost. Indications for aluminum premiums for duty
unpaid, in-warehouse material at the beginning of 2011 were
$110-135 per metric ton, with an average 2011 range of
approximately $110-130 per ton and a more recent level of $95-
120 per ton.  “Investor demand for physical metal, supported by wide
contangos, has kept overall physical markets reasonably
balanced.”  On copper, lead and zinc markets:  “2011 markets were particularly characterized by supply
disruptions and continuing decline in mine ore grades.”  Copper “production declined on an outright basis and is
expected to continue to do so well into 2012 until the
production cycle from ore to metal is re-established. This lack
of supply growth explains the relative strength in prices
witnessed in the face of weak demand in  Europe  and U.S.  “Lack of new production is also relevant for zinc, though
with China not being a net importer, zinc metal prices were
relatively weaker.  “The second half was dominated by reactions to the
European financial crisis, in terms of price volatility on the
terminal markets and consumer behavior and purchasing patterns.
Inventories in China had declined from the high levels since the
purchases in 2009 and 2010 when prices were lower. Inventories
in the U.S. and Europe, which had seen major drawdowns since
2009, had not been rebuilt amid the uncertainty over Europe and
were in fact cut even further throughout 2011 and remain that
way.  “Chinese buyers, on the other hand, have used price
weakness in the fourth quarter to purchase large amounts of
metal for nearby delivery and rebuild the inventory pipeline to
a more ‘normal’ level, particularly for copper.  “We also saw the first signs of demand strength in the
U.S. during Q4 2011, most evident in the automobile sector where
production was ramped up, following the supply-chain disruptions
in Japan and  Thailand .  “There has been good consumer demand for zinc, although
purchasing was for current demand with no emphasis on
restocking.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  