-- China to Curb Auto Production Capacity, Promote New-Energy Cars
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-05T04:33:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/china-to-curb-auto-production-capacity-promote-new-energy-car-development.html
China will control the increase in
auto manufacturing capacity and encourage mergers and
reorganizations in the industry, according to a work report that
Premier  Wen Jiabao  delivered at the nation’s legislature.  The government will promote new-energy vehicles and
encourage the scrapping of old vehicles to reduce pollution,
according to a separate report today by the National Development
and Reform Commission, the country’s top economic planner.  China this year removed preferential treatment for foreign
automakers on their Chinese plants as part of measures to
prevent overcapacity in the world’s largest vehicle market.
Automobile sales in the Asian nation may be having their worst
start in seven years as a slowing economy and record gasoline
prices keep consumers away from dealerships.  “The industry can’t just pursue capacity increase for its
own sake,”  Li Shufu , chairman of Zhejiang  Geely Holding (175)  Group
Co., said in Beijing today. “We need to improve the use of
existing capacity and upgrade our technology.”  The  auto industry  is among four industries listed in the
government report where increases in capacity should be curbed.
The other three are steelmaking, shipbuilding and cement
production.  Deliveries of passenger autos, including sport-utility
vehicles and light-goods vans, in the first two months of 2012
fell 3 percent from a year earlier, based on the median estimate
of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. That would be the
biggest drop since 2005, when they fell 8.9 percent, according
to the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers, which will
release industry data later this month.  China ’s auto sales increased 2.5 percent last year,
trailing growth in the U.S. for the first time in at least 14
years. Delivery growth slowed from the 32 percent rate in 2010,
after China withdrew a two-year package of tax breaks and
rebates.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net ;
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  