-- China One-Child Policy Poses Risks for Next Leaders
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-05T03:24:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/china-one-child-policy-poses-risks-for-next-leaders-correct-.html
(Corrects story originally published March 2 to show in
third paragraph that the Brookings-Tsinghua center’s view on
growth risks incorporates a range of influences.)  As the world’s largest national
congress meets in Beijing to prepare for new leadership, likely
successor Xi Jinping will inherit a roadblock to growth dating
back almost to the era of  Mao Zedong : the one-child policy.  Implemented in 1979 to alleviate poverty, the restriction
on family size will cut the number of 15- to 24-year-olds, the
mainstay of factories that drove growth for two decades, by 27
percent to 164 million by 2025, the United Nations estimates. In
the same time, investment that fueled more than half of last
year’s 9.2 percent  expansion  will be constrained by soaring
pension and health-care costs as those over the age of 65 surge
78 percent to 195 million.  Failure to scrap the law risks accelerating a demographic
change that the Beijing-based Brookings-Tsinghua Center for
Public Policy estimates could combine with a falling rate of
labor productivity growth, declining returns on investment and
rising social costs to eventually cut  China ’s growth in half.
With China accounting for about 30 percent of global expansion,
the restraint would affect companies such as automaker General
Motors Co. and  Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM) , operator of KFC restaurants.  “This is one of the last chances to change the policy
before things get much worse,” said Helen Qiao, chief Greater
China economist with Morgan Stanley in Hong Kong. “If they
start to lift the one-child restriction on urban dwellers now,
the economy can get a boost from people still willing to have
more than one kid.”  Fertility Rate  Increasing the fertility rate to 2.3 children per woman,
from about 1.6, would cut the decline in the workforce in half
by 2050 to 8.8 percent, from 17.3 percent, according to the UN.
That would reduce China’s reliance on  exports  as an increase in
births stokes demand for consumer products such as Danone SA’s
baby formula and Hengan International Group Co.’s diapers.  Relaxing the one-child policy is “urgent” to help shift
the economy toward greater consumption, Qiao said. “Increases
to the  labor force  will take 16 years but people will have
babies now and the boost for consumption will come right away.”  Khiem Do, Hong Kong-based head of multiasset strategy at
Baring Asset Management Ltd., which oversees about $46 billion,
said an easing of the policy would help “consumer, housing,
consumer durables and construction” industries. He declined to
name specific stocks, citing company policy.  NPC Delegates  That may not be enough to persuade the almost 3,000
delegates to next week’s National People’s Congress to reverse
rules that have been a pillar of Communist Party policy for
three decades and are backed by cities including Shanghai, which
face rising pension costs.  “A sudden U-turn is not likely,” said Cai Yong, a fellow
at the Carolina Population Center at the University of  North
Carolina ,  Chapel Hill . “The government is more worried about
short-term problems. More and more people see the problem but
there’s no urgency to change it because it’s slow burning.”  The policy instead is more likely to be unwound gradually.
Some delegates may push for relaxations in the law at the NPC,
which starts on March 5, said Wang Feng, a director of the
 Brookings-Tsinghua  center, a venture between China’s  Tsinghua
University  and the Washington-based  Brookings Institution .  The government already allows a few exceptions, such as
permitting rural families to have a second child if the first is
a girl. Couples in some regions are allowed a second child if
both parents are single children. Minority ethnic groups are
excluded from the restriction. Those who can afford to may pay a
fine for having a second or third baby.  ‘Going to Change’  “China is going to change its one-child policy,” said
Ronald Wan, a Hong Kong-based managing director at China
Merchants Securities Co. “It won’t be overnight. They will
fine-tune bit by bit. Dairy milk and those companies related to
children like education, clothing will benefit.”  The dilemma facing China’s cities is that an end to the
one-child policy, implemented three years after Mao’s death,
would mean more money needed for schools and children’s
facilities just as local governments face surging bills for
pensions and care for the elderly.  The  Shanghai  Municipal Population and Family Planning
Commission last year rejected a proposal to allow couples to
have two children because it would strain a system that already
has to deal with an aging population. Deputy Director Sun
Changmin said the one-child policy is a basic national principle
and the overall population remains elevated, according to an Oct.
27 statement on the government’s  website .  Biden’s Take  China’s “God-awful one-child policy” will change the
proportion of elderly people to workers so rapidly over the next
20 years that there’s “no way” the nation can sustain its
current level of economic growth, U.S. Vice President Joe Biden
told students at  Florida State University  on Feb. 6, prior to a
visit by Xi to the U.S., according to an official transcript.  Expanding China’s rudimentary pension system to all workers
would cost 7 percent of GDP, or $411 billion, rising to 15
percent of GDP by 2050, as the number of pensioners triples,
according to Richard Jackson, director of the Global Aging
Initiative at the Center for Strategic and International Studies
in  Washington . The pool of workers able to pay taxes will fall
by 233 million to 682 million, UN projections show.  “To experience that level of aging with basically an
unfunded retirement safety net is a recipe for serious
trouble,” said  Stephen Roach , a professor at  Yale University 
and former non-executive chairman for Morgan Stanley in  Asia .  Retirement Saving  Workers without any security over pension income will save
rather than spend, making rebalancing toward more consumption
and away from investment-led growth impossible, Roach said in a
telephone interview.  “China’s got to really relax the family planning policy
but it’s also got to move aggressively to fund the safety net,”
Roach said. “Neither one of those has happened.”  China’s reluctance to end the policy is also rooted in
concerns a population explosion would hurt economic progress, a
theory proposed by political economist Thomas Malthus two
centuries ago, said Wang.  “The Malthusian shadow is really dark and heavy over the
head of China,” Wang said. “China has lost so much time
already. Now time is really running out.”  Shift to Negative  So, while some delegates at the NPC may call for changes,
the policy won’t be on the official agenda this year, said Wang.
His center estimates the positive contribution to growth that
came from an expanding workforce in China will turn negative in
2013, wiping at least half a percentage point off the potential
annual growth rate.  ”Declining returns to  capital investment , a decreasing
rate of labor productivity increase and the rising cost of
social investment will eventually lead to a halving in the
growth rate in China,” said Wang. “China’s demographic changes
will also have far-reaching implications for the world economy,
which has relied on China as a global factory for the past two
decades and more.”  Concerns that ending the policy will trigger a surge in
births are misguided, according to Jackson, Wang and Cai.  Cai at the Carolina Population Center estimates an end to
the restrictions would cause the fertility rate to rise only
temporarily before falling back to 1.5 within five years.
Jackson sees it rising to 1.8 or 1.9, while Wang says there “is
no reason to believe it can go up to 2,” the rate a nation
needs to prevent its population shrinking.  International Comparison  Japan ’s fertility rate is 1.42 while in the U.S. it is 2.08.  Without measures to relax the one-child policy and
encourage more children, China’s rate may slump to close to 1
within 20 years, said Cai.  China is “shooting itself in the foot” and should offer
incentives to families to have more children, said Wang. In
Shanghai the fertility rate was about 0.79 in the year ended
October 2010, according to the  latest data  from the city’s
statistics department.  Worse still, the policy led to thousands of aborted fetuses,
many of them female because of the importance of male children
in Chinese society, causing a gender imbalance. A 2007 study by
the State Population and Family Planning Commission said that by
2020 there will be 30 million more men of marriageable age than
women, according to the state-run Xinhua News Agency.  A “large group of unhappy, dissatisfied” men, unable to
find wives, “is clearly a serious social concern,” said Wang.  Some parents travel to  Hong Kong  to have a second child in
an effort to circumvent the rules, according to hospitals in the
city. More than 230,000 babies were born to mainland mothers in
Hong Kong in the decade to 2010, according to the city’s Census
and Statistics Department.  “The one-child policy is definitely one of the important
reasons mothers come to Hong Kong to give birth,” said Cheung
Tak Hong, who runs the obstetrics and gynecology department at
Hong Kong’s Prince of Wales Hospital. “China’s community, like
in most Asian countries, still has deep-rooted values in liking
the idea of a bigger family.”  -- Kevin Hamlin . With assistance from Natasha Khan in Hong Kong,
Allen Wan in Shanghai, Weiyi Lim and Shiyin Chen in  Singapore 
and  Margaret Talev  in Washington. Editors: Adam Majendie, Scott Lanman.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing on 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  