-- Christie Seeking to Replace Free Lunch Count as Measure of Poor Students
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2012-03-05T20:31:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/christie-may-replace-free-lunch-count-in-new-jersey-as-measure-of-poverty.html
New Jersey (STONJ1)  Governor Chris Christie
is looking for a new way to measure student poverty as part of
his plan to overhaul how school aid is distributed.  The state currently measures “at-risk students” by
determining the number of children receiving free or reduced-
price school lunches, and districts with students in that
program get more aid. Those lunch counts are inaccurate and
subject to fraud, Christie, 49, a first-term Republican, said
today at a press conference in Trenton.  “We’ve all heard the stories of abuse and misuse of this
program,” Christie said. “A report by the state auditor has
revealed high levels of fraudulent enrollment in the program,
resulting in possibly tens of millions of dollars being
misdirected or misspent.”  Christie has said that the state’s school-funding formula
sends too much money to low-income districts that continue to
underperform, while suburban systems are shortchanged. He
proposed raising school aid by $213 million in his budget for
the fiscal year that begins July 1, and seeks changes that would
give more money to districts according to their enrollment of
poor children.  Task Force  The governor said he signed an executive order today
creating a panel that will find and eliminate fraud and abuse in
the school-lunch program, and determine the best method of
measuring student poverty.  New Jersey ’s $198 million lunch program, which is mostly
funded by the federal government, provided free or reduced-price
meals to 428,000 students as of May 2010, according to a June
27, 2011, report by the state auditor’s office. As many as 37
percent of the program’s recipients may have been ineligible,
the report found.  Acting Education Commissioner Christopher Cerf, in a Feb.
23 report, cited possible fraud or error in the program and
recommended that participation no longer count as part of the
funding formula. He also questioned whether low income was an
accurate gauge of students’ potential.  In September, the president of the Elizabeth school board
and two others were charged with falsifying income information
so their children would receive the subsidies, at a cost to
taxpayers of $7,000 over five years, according to the state
Attorney General’s Office.  More Money  The Elizabeth incident is proof that the school-funding
formula needs an overhaul, Republican state Senator Michael Doherty, from Washington Township in Warren County, told
reporters at Christie’s press conference. Districts draw $5,000
to $6,000 in aid for each student in the lunch program, he said.  New Jersey spent an average $17,076 per public-school
student in 2008, the third-highest amount among the states and
60 percent above the U.S. average, according to Cerf’s report.
Spending more money hasn’t resulted in all of New Jersey’s
students receiving proper educations, Christie has said.  In 2011, the National Assessment of Educational Progress
showed that New Jersey had the nation’s second-widest
“achievement gap,” or the test-results differences between
rich and poor students in eighth-grade reading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  