-- Cigna Weighs Sale of Pharmacy Benefits Unit That May Bring in $1.5 Billion
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-03-05T21:16:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/cigna-considers-the-sale-or-outsourcing-of-pharmacy-benefits-division.html
Cigna Corp. (CI)  is considering selling
or outsourcing its pharmacy-benefits division, a business that
might fetch $1.5 billion for the U.S. health insurer in an
acquisition, according to one analyst.  Cigna is evaluating “structural solutions” for the unit
now that its $3.8 billion purchase of Healthspring Inc. has
expanded the pharmacy business, Matthew Asensio, a company
spokesman, said in a telephone interview. The move follows
decisions by insurers  WellPoint (WLP)  Inc. and  Aetna Inc. (AET)  to sell and
outsource their pharmacy units, respectively.  The Healthspring deal, completed last month, added 650,000
members to a pharmacy unit that served 6.91 million last year,
Bloomfield, Connecticut-based Cigna said on Feb. 2. While
managing those benefits is “significant” to customers,
“there’s different ways you could do that,” Chief Financial
Officer Ralph Nicoletti said at a conference last week.  “Everything is on the table,” for the pharmacy-benefits
division, Asensio said. “Nothing has been ruled out.”  Healthspring increased the prescriptions Cigna handles by
as much as 50 percent, boosting the value of the unit to as much
as $1.5 billion, said  Ana Gupte , a Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
analyst, in New York. Cigna could use the proceeds from a sale
or outsourcing to cut  debt  or pay down its pension liabilities,
she said.  Cigna had $1.45 billion in mail-order pharmacy sales last
year, it said in its Feb. 2 statement. Healthspring, a health-
maintenance organization that focuses on elderly Medicare
patients, generated $730 million from drug plans in the first
nine months of 2011, according to the last earnings report it
filed.  ‘Bigger Footprint’  Healthspring “gives us a much bigger footprint in that
space,” Nicoletti said on Feb. 29 at the Citi 2012 Health Care
 Conference . “The acquisition has given us some reason to pause
and try to re-evaluate it as a combined entity.”  The business may draw bids from pharmacy-benefits companies
including  CVS Caremark (CVS) , of Woonsocket,  Rhode Island ;  Express
Scripts (ESRX)  Inc. of St. Louis; or  SXC Health Solutions Corp. (SXC)  of
Lisle, Illinois, Gupte said. SXC manages Healthspring’s
prescription plans.  Cigna, the fifth-largest insurer by membership, rose less
than  1 percent  to $44.45 at 4:01 p.m. The shares have gained 1.4
percent in the past 12 months.  WellPoint sold its pharmacy unit to  Express Scripts  for
$4.7 billion in 2009. The following year, Aetna, in a bid to
lower drug costs, announced a contract to let CVS Caremark
administer $9.5 billion in annual prescription benefits.  Sale Considered  Cigna also considered selling the pharmacy unit in 2009 and
might have followed through if it had found a better deal, Carl McDonald, a Citigroup analyst in New York, said during the
company’s presentation at the Feb. 29 conference.  “My sense is that there’s still an interest,” he said.  “It is important for Cigna to continue to have pharmacy
benefit capabilities as an integrated part of our offering to
customers and clients,” said Asensio, the Cigna spokesman. “We
are considering a variety of structural solutions to best and
most efficiently deliver that value going forward.”  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  of Minnetonka, Minnesota, is the
biggest U.S. health plan by sales, followed by Indianapolis-
based WellPoint and Aetna, of Hartford, Connecticut.  Brian Henry , an Express Scripts spokesman, and Tony Perkins, an SXC spokesman, declined to comment in telephone
interviews. CVS doesn’t comment on “market rumors,”
spokeswoman  Carolyn Castel  said in an e-mail.  SXC Revenue  Healthspring is SXC’s largest customer, accounting for 40
percent of the benefits manager’s $5 billion in revenue last
year, SXC said in a regulatory  filing  Feb. 24. That was expected
to grow by $1 billion this year due to acquisitions by
Healthspring, SXC said. A loss or “substantial changes” to
that business “could have a material adverse effect,” the
company said.  The Healthspring contract took effect Jan. 1, 2011, the
filing said. It has an initial three-year term, during which
neither company has the right to terminate absent a “material
breach,” according to SXC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  