-- Clean-Energy Plan Seen Benefiting Natural Gas Suppliers
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2012-03-05T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/clean-energy-mandate-for-utilities-seen-benefiting-natural-gas.html
Natural gas, which already is edging
aside coal in American electricity generation, would be one of
the biggest beneficiaries of a clean-energy mandate for
utilities under consideration in Congress this year.  Senator  Jeff Bingaman , a New Mexico Democrat and chairman
of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee, introduced a
measure March 1 to force electricity companies to use an
increasing share of energy produced from “clean” sources over
the next two decades.  The  bill  reshapes the energy debate by calling for sources
that emit less carbon than coal, a definition that includes
natural gas, instead of focusing on zero-emission renewable
sources such as wind and solar, both critics and supporters say.
While the proposal faces long odds of getting enacted this year,
Bingaman’s plan may gain a powerful ally -- and new opposition
from environmental groups.  “The obvious goal is to expand it beyond renewables in
order to get enough votes,” said  Dan Simmons , director of
regulatory and state affairs at the Institute for Energy
Research in Washington, a group critical of the legislation.
“By including natural gas, it’s a way to broaden support.”  Bingaman’s clean-energy mandate may benefit companies like
 Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  of Irving, Texas and Oklahoma City-based
 Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) , the two largest producers of natural
gas in the U.S.  Gas Alliance Reaction  “We are analyzing the details of this proposal,” Daniel Whitten, a spokesman for America’s Natural Gas Alliance, a
Washington-based group that represents natural gas producers,
said in an e-mail. “We appreciate the fact that Senator
Bingaman recognized the important role that natural gas can play
as part of our nation’s clean energy future.”  Solar companies such as Tempe, Ariz.-based  First Solar
Inc. (FSLR) , the world’s largest maker of thin-film solar panels, and
Suntech Power Holdings Co. of Jiangsu,  China , the largest panel
maker, could be among the long-term beneficiaries of a bill such
as Bingaman’s.  Unlike the cap-and-trade legislation that passed the  House
of Representatives  in 2009, Bingaman’s measure would not put a
limit on  carbon emissions  and only applies to the largest
producers of power, according to documents distributed by the
the Senate energy committee. The measure would neither impose
new taxes nor cost the government in new spending, the committee
said in its documents.  Carbon-Reduction Credits  Bingaman’s proposal would require electricity providers to
deliver an increasing share of less-carbon intensive energy over
the period of 2015 to 2035. Generators must be a zero-carbon
energy source or “have a lower carbon intensity than a modern,
efficient coal plant,” according to the proposal.  It doesn’t mandate a particular set of technologies and
“it lets the market and American ingenuity establish the best
path forward,” Bingaman said at a March 1 event to unveil the
bill in  Washington .  Power providers would earn credits toward the low-carbon
goals. The credits would be based on the amount of carbon
reduction, so gas, which has half the emissions of coal, would
only get half the credit of zero-emission wind or solar. Thus
the bill would “provides even greater incentives for zero
emissions,” the senator said.  Congress has considered various forms of renewable energy
standards, which would mandate that electricity producers
purchase more solar, wind or other low-carbon sources, in
previous years. None became law.  ‘Important Step’  “I don’t know much about the act, other than I would bet
the house that nothing substantial in it will get passed prior
to the November election,” said Alex Morris, an energy analyst
at Raymond James & Associates Inc. in Houston. “I’d be
extremely surprised if anything happens, and I don’t think many
-- if any -- companies are really planning around it.”  The administration of President  Barack Obama  sees the
proposal as “an important step,” White House spokesman  Clark Stevens  said in an e-mail.  “The problem is eliminating outdated wasteful government
incentives for the robust fossil-fuel industry, not adding new
ones,” Chase Huntley, clean energy policy adviser for the
Wilderness Society, said in a  statement . “ Natural gas  is at
best only 50 percent cleaner than coal.”  At first the market probably will choose gas, according to
a  preliminary analysis  released in November by the Energy
Information Agency. The agency modeled various types of clean-
energy standards, which are similar but not the same to the one
Bingaman unveiled last week.  Gas Versus Solar  Under each scenario, gas use spikes in the first few years
of the mandates, and ends up at least 10 percent -- and
potentially more than 30 percent -- higher than the baseline
forecast for 2025. And total natural gas generation is probably
four to five times greater than that for wind and solar
combined. The EIA is preparing a revised analysis, which will be
released in the coming weeks.  Use of coal to generate electricity will drop 2 percent
this year to the lowest since 1992, while gas-fired consumption
rises 5.6 percent, according to the U.S. Energy Department.  Gas
prices  have tumbled to the lowest levels since February 2002
this year amid a boom in output and milder-than-normal weather.  The U.S. could use natural gas as “a transition fuel”
from oil and coal to renewables, said  Steven A. Cohen , a
professor of public affairs at  Columbia University . “We’re not
ready yet for full-scale renewable energy because we don’t have
the technology to make it cost effective on a large scale.”  Global Warming  Natural gas “has deficiencies, such as how it’s extracted
from the ground, but we don’t live in a perfect world, and you
have to look at what can be put in place, which things will be
fast, which will take longer,” Cohen said. “Its  capital
requirements  are lower than nuclear. If you’re going to invest
in a transitional fuel, you need to think about the amortization
of the infrastructure.”  Carbon dioxide emissions since the industrial revolution
has led to a warming of the earth’s temperature over the past 50
years, which threatens to cause extreme weather, drought and
flooding of coastal zones, according to the U.S.  Global Change
Research Program .  “Those who continue to deny  climate change  fail to realize
the value renewables have to both energy security and
economics,” said  Jesse Pichel , an analyst with  Jefferies Group
Inc. (JEF)  in  New York . “Our 50 years of legacy investment and
subsidy for fossil fuels make it hard to adopt renewables.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net ;
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  