-- Cnooc Seeks to Invest in U.S. Shale Projects to Expand Reserves, Wang Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-05T02:44:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/cnooc-seeks-to-invest-in-u-s-shale-projects-to-expand-reserves-wang-says.html
Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s biggest offshore
energy explorer, plans to increase investments in North American
shale projects to expand reserves and acquire technology to
develop domestic fields.  “The U.S. has advanced shale oil and gas technology and
rich resources,” Chairman Wang Yilin said in an interview in
Beijing today, declining to identify potential sites and
partners. “We are interested in U.S. shale projects.”  Cnooc has bid for at least $4.5 billion of overseas assets
since the beginning of last year, including stakes in shale
assets held by Chesapeake Energy Corp., to help increase
overseas production. The Hong Kong-listed company, which relies
on areas off the Chinese coast for 80 percent of its output,
slashed its 2011 production target after oil leaks shut the
Penglai 19-3 field in northern  China .  “The company’s overall oil and gas output this year should
be basically the same as in 2011,” said Wang as he arrived at
the Great Hall of the People for the opening of the country’s
legislature. “We are awaiting government approval to restore
output at Penglai. The conditions are in place to resume
production at the field.”  Cnooc said on Jan. 19 it aims to produce the equivalent of
330 million to 340 million barrels of oil in 2012, a gain of as
much as 2.7 percent from last year. Overseas oil and gas
production may reach as much as 13 million tons this year, Wang
said. That’s equivalent to about 95 million barrels.  The shares have fallen 4.4 percent in  Hong Kong  trading in
the past year, compared with the 8.3 percent decline in the
benchmark  Hang Seng Index . Cnooc dropped 0.5 percent to HK$17.36
as of 10:36 a.m. local time.  Chinese Shale  Cnooc has started exploring its first shale gas site in
China, following rivals including  PetroChina Co. (857)  in the search
for the unconventional fuel, parent China National Offshore Oil
Corp. said on Jan. 11.  China, estimated to hold more gas trapped in shale than the
U.S., may hold its second auction of exploration areas by the
end of February or in early March, Zhang Dawei, deputy director
of oil and gas research at the Ministry of Land and Resources,
said on Feb. 13.  “We don’t have a plan to participate in the next domestic
shale gas auction, but will look out for future opportunities,”
Wang said.  --Chua Baizhen and Jing Yang. With assistance from Guo Aibing in
Hong Kong. Editors: Ryan Woo, Amit Prakash.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Chua Baizhen in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net ;
 Jing Yang  in Beijing at 
 jyang251@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net . 