-- Coelho Won’t Follow Spain’s Example in Relaxing Portugal’s Deficit Target
-- B y   D a v i d   T w e e d ,   J o a o   L i m a   a n d   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-03-05T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/coelho-won-t-follow-spain-in-seeking-more-room-for-portuguese-deficit-goal.html
Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho 
said he won’t mimic  Spain  and seek to ease Portugal’s deficit
targets to withstand a deepening recession.  Portugal will “absolutely not” alter the deficit goals it
pledged in return for a European Union-led aid package last
year, Passos Coelho said in an interview in Lisbon yesterday.
“Spain is in a different situation. They have more space to
maneuver to get to the target in 2013. We are in an adjustment
program, so we cannot fail the targets.”  Passos Coelho is cutting spending and raising taxes in
Western Europe’s poorest economy to meet the terms of a 78
billion-euro ($103 billion) aid plan that allowed the country to
avoid default.  Portugal  pledged to creditors that it would limit
the deficit to 4.5 percent of gross domestic product this year
and trim the shortfall within the EU’s 3 percent limit in 2013.  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  on March 2 defied
European Union allies by raising Spain’s budget-deficit target
for this year, saying a deepening economic slump and Spain
overshooting last year’s targets will hamper efforts to rein in
the euro area’s fourth-biggest shortfall. Rajoy announced a new
estimate of 5.8 percent compared with the previously agreed 4.4
percent.  Recession Forecast  Portugal has trimmed its deficit from 9.8 percent in 2010,
even after the economy contracted 1.5 percent last year. The
European Commission forecasts the Portuguese economy will shrink
by more than twice that rate this year, complicating efforts to
reduce the budget gap.  Even with the deepening economic slump, Passos Coelho said
he won’t seek concessions from creditors and follow  Greece  in
trying to negotiate lower  interest rates  for its bailout loans.  “It’s a different situation,” he said. “Portuguese loans
already have a very good interest level.”  Portuguese Finance Minister Vitor Gaspar on Nov. 30 said
that the international aid loans have an average interest rate
of between 4 percent and 5 percent, and average maturities of
between 7 years and 12 years. In total, that results in an
average annual interest rate of 4.3 percent, Gaspar said.  Portugal’s 10-year bond yield rose to a euro-era record
18.29 percent on Jan. 31, and was at 13.85 percent yesterday. On
June 6, the day after Passos Coelho defeated former Prime
Minister  Jose Socrates  to take power, it was 9.73 percent.  ‘Illiquid Market’  “The secondary market is a very illiquid market, there are
very few transactions,” Passos Coelho said. “There is still
some pressure on the markets because people don’t know if
Portugal is able to grow in the next years.”  Portugal’s aid plan assumes the country will regain access
to medium and long-term sovereign debt markets in 2013, with the
program’s last disbursement to be made in June 2014, the
 International Monetary Fund  said in December. That month,
European leaders declared that Greece’s situation is
“exceptional and unique” and said they don’t foresee
bondholder losses in other nations that seek assistance.  “The  Portuguese government  is getting all the positive
results to avoid such a scenario,” Passos Coelho said. “I
don’t see any kind of possibility that my government could in a
few years ask to restructure Portuguese debt.”  Passos Coelho reiterated that if his country is unable to
return to markets as planned in September 2013 due to “external
reasons,” it would be able to count on continued support from
the IMF, the European Commission and the  European Central Bank .  Debt Peak  “I don’t want a scenario like that and I hope that
external reasons don’t arise,” Passos Coelho said.  Portugal’s financial aid program is on track, while
challenges remain as the country needs to step up its efforts on
structural reforms, the IMF said on Feb. 28. The IMF said in
December that debt is projected to peak at about 118 percent of
GDP in 2013. Debt was 93.3 percent of GDP in 2010.  “Structural change needs some time to bring a positive
impact on the economy,” Passos Coelho said.  Portugal’s economy  shrank for a fifth quarter in the three
months through December and the  jobless rate  rose to 14 percent,
posting the sharpest increase since at least 1998. For next
year, the Bank of Portugal forecasts GDP will grow and the
country will post a current and capital account surplus.  “I’m sure in a few months when the results of the current
year are stronger in the eyes of the analysts, Portugal will
become a more favorable case of success,” Passos Coelho said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net ;
David Tweed in London at 
 dtweed@bloomberg.net ;
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  