-- Commerzbank to Raise Capital by $1 Billion in Hybrid Debt for Stock Swap
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-03-05T10:08:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/commerzbank-to-raise-capital-by-1-billion-in-hybrid-debt-for-stock-swap.html
Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,  Germany ’s second-
biggest bank, will boost core Tier 1 capital by 776 million
euros ($1.02 billion) in the first half after swapping hybrid
capital instruments for new shares.  Commerzbank is exchanging about 361 million new shares for
debt securities with an aggregate principal amount of 965
million euros, the Frankfurt-based lender said today. The swap,
announced Feb. 23, will boost after-tax earnings by 87 million
euros in the period.  Chief Executive Officer  Martin Blessing , who has spent
three years trying to free Commerzbank from the government aid
needed to survive the 2008 financial crisis, is raising capital,
reducing risk-weighted assets and costs and retaining earnings
to meet European Banking Authority reserve requirements. The EBA
ordered banks to raise capital by June 30 to restore confidence
in the industry amid  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis.  Commerzbank (CBK) 
fell as much as 4.4 percent in Frankfurt trading.  “Banks shares in general are under pressure today and
there’s also the dilution in the case of Commerzbank,” said
 Andreas Plaesier , a Hamburg-based analyst at M.M. Warburg, which
has a “hold” rating on the stock. The transaction “dilutes
existing shareholders less than originally thought and still
generates enough capital,” he said.  1.2 Billion Euros  The share sale raises Commerzbank’s subscribed capital by 7
percent. The lender said on Feb. 23 it would issue as many as
511 million new shares, or a maximum of 10 percent, for the
offer that applied to as much as 3.16 billion euros in capital
instruments.  Through 2017, the share-debt swap will boost core Tier 1
capital by 1.2 billion euros and pretax profit by 484 million
euros, the bank said today. The new shares will be exchanged at
a price of 1.9128 euros, it said today.  Commerzbank  fell  6 cents, or 3.1 percent, to 1.90 euros by
9:45 a.m. in  Frankfurt . The shares have  gained  46 percent so far
this year, helped by the announcement that the lender wouldn’t
need state aid in January and the  European Central Bank ’s
program of unlimited three-year loans.  Commerzbank was added today to CA Cheuvreux’s “all-sector
top picks” in Europe, with analyst Cyril Meilland saying the
stock is “dirt-cheap” and “the capital position is no longer an
issue.”  Soffin Stake  Germany’s Soffin bank rescue fund will maintain its  25
percent stake  in Commerzbank by converting a portion of its
silent participation into 120 million shares. Silent
participation is a form of non-voting capital used in Germany
that is not accepted by the EBA as core Tier 1 capital.  In December, the EBA told European banks to raise 114.7
billion euros in capital by the end of June as part of measures
introduced to respond to the euro area’s fiscal crisis. The
regulator called for lenders to have core Tier 1 capital of at
least 9 percent of their risk-weighted assets after accounting
for writedowns on some European sovereign bonds.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  managed the swap as the
intermediary and will hand over the Commerzbank shares to hybrid
debt holders participating in the exchange. The joint dealer
managers were  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Commerzbank and
Goldman Sachs.  Separately, Credit Suisse Group AG,  Switzerland ’s second-
biggest bank, announced a tender offer to repurchase 4 billion
Swiss francs ($4.4 billion) in outstanding tier 1 and tier 2
securities as it prepares to replace them with capital
instruments that satisfy new Swiss and Basel III rules.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  