-- Copper Futures Fall Most in Two Weeks on Signs That China Demand May Ease
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-03-05T18:44:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/copper-climbs-as-freeport-s-grasberg-shut-lme-stockpiles-drop.html
Copper fell the most in two weeks on
concern that demand will slow after  China , the world’s biggest
metals consumer, cut its economic-growth target.  The country’s 8 percent annual goal in place since 2005 was
lowered to 7.5 percent, Premier  Wen Jiabao  said today. Copper
also dropped on forecasts that automobile sales in China in the
two months ended Feb. 29 headed for the biggest decline in seven
years after gasoline costs climbed to a record.  China “is not growing quite as fast as it was, and that’s
taking some of the steam out of the market,” William O’ Neill,
a partner at Logic Advisors in  Upper Saddle River ,  New Jersey ,
said in a telephone interview. “People are concerned about the
level of Chinese inventories.”  Copper futures for May delivery slid 1.1 percent to settle
at $3.8595 a pound at 1:14 p.m. on the Comex in  New York , the
biggest loss since Feb. 17. The metal has gained 12 percent this
year.  Stockpiles monitored by the Shanghai Futures Exchange have
climbed to the highest since at least January 2003, weekly data
showed.  Deliveries of passenger autos in China, including sport-
utility vehicles and light-goods vans, fell 3 percent in the
first two months of 2012 from a year earlier, based on the
median estimate of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. That
would be the biggest drop since 2005, according to the  China
Association of Automobile Manufacturers . A luxury automobile may
use as much as 28 kilograms (62 pounds) of the metal,  according 
to the Copper Development Association.  On the  London  Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months fell 0.9 percent to $8,505 a metric ton ($3.86 a pound).  Nickel, zinc, lead, aluminum and tin also slid in London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick McKiernan at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net  