-- Corporate Human Rights Case Expanded by U.S. Supreme Court
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-03-05T20:14:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/corporate-human-rights-case-expanded-by-u-s-supreme-court.html
The U.S. Supreme Court ordered a
second round of arguments in a case that might shield
multinational companies, including  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , from
suits accusing them of complicity in human-rights abuses.  The justices today expanded their review of a lawsuit that
claims Shell units played a role in torture and execution in
Nigeria in the 1990s. The court said in a one-paragraph order
that it will consider whether the two-century-old Alien Tort
Statute can be invoked for alleged wrongdoing that occurs beyond
the U.S. borders.  Multinational companies have faced dozens of suits accusing
them of involvement in human rights violations, environmental
misconduct and labor abuses.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) ,
 Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ,  Unocal Corp (UCL) .,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  have
all been sued under either the Alien Tort Statute or a related
law, known as the Torture Victim Protection Act.  When the justices heard arguments in the Shell case last
week, they focused on whether the Alien Tort Statute allowed
suits against corporations. Several justices, including  Samuel Alito , suggested during the argument that they were more
interested in considering contentions that the law can’t be
applied overseas.  A ruling on the so-called extraterritoriality issue would
potentially impose more sweeping limits on lawsuits, shielding
corporate officers as well as the companies themselves.  The court’s briefing schedule means the new argument will
take place during the nine-month term that starts in October.  The justices also are considering whether companies and
organizations can be sued under the Torture Victim Protection
Act. That case, which isn’t affected by today’s order, involves
a suit against the  Palestinian Authority  and the Palestinian
Liberation Organization filed by the sons and widow of a U.S.
citizen allegedly tortured and murdered in the  West Bank .  The case is Kiobel v. Shell Petroleum, 10-1491.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  