-- Cotton Surges Most Since May After India Halts Exports
-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2012-03-05T22:10:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/cotton-surges-most-since-may-after-india-halts-exports-correct-.html
(Corrects year in ninth paragraph.)  Cotton futures jumped the most in
nine months after  India , the world’s second-biggest exporter,
banned more shipments to ensure domestic supplies.  Almost 9.4 million bales of 170 kilograms (375 pounds) have
been shipped, India said in a statement. A surplus for export in
the year that started Oct. 1 was estimated at 8.4 million.
Prices in New York tumbled 57 percent in the past year as global
supplies outpaced demand, and wide price swings hurt profit at
Glencore International Plc and Noble Group Ltd.  India’s move “caught the market off guard,” Sterling Smith, a market analyst with  Country Hedging  in  St. Paul ,
Minnesota, said in a telephone interview. “The world will
require more cotton from the U.S.,” the top exporter, he said.  Cotton for May delivery climbed by the exchange limit of 4
cents, or 4.5 percent, to settle at 92.23 cents a pound at 2:39
p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York , the biggest gain since May
31.  The ban may send prices as high as 98 cents in the next few
days, Smith said.  India is “a game changer,”  Sharon Johnson , a senior
analyst at Penson Futures in Atlanta, said in an e-mail.  The fiber has plunged from a record $2.197 on March 7 as
demand waned in  China , the biggest consumer. On Feb. 9, the USDA
boosted its forecast for global stockpiles by 4.1 percent on
production gains and slowing usage. The agency will update its
forecast on March 9.  India’s ban “is not really about a shortage of cotton,
it’s just to protect the local industry,”  Keith Brown , the
president of Keith Brown & Co., a commodity broker in Moultrie,
Georgia, said in a telephone interview. “We still have ample
supply.”  Glencore (GLEN) , based in Baar, Switzerland, said today that its
agricultural-trading unit had a loss of $8 million in the second
half of 2011 following an “unprecedented cotton market,”
compared with profit of $659 million a year earlier.  The ICE limit will increase to 5 cents tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in New York at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick McKiernan at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net  