-- Credit-Default Swaps in U.S. Rise After China Cuts Growth Target
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-03-05T22:40:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/credit-default-swaps-in-u-s-rise-after-china-cuts-growth-target.html
A benchmark gauge of U.S. company
credit risk rose to the highest level in a week after  China 
pared its economic growth target.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
increased 1.4 basis points to a mid-price of 95.3 basis points
at 5:10 p.m. in  New York , according to Markit Group Ltd.
Contracts tied to Wells Fargo & Co. and JPMorgan Chase & Co.
also climbed.  The gauge increased for a second straight day after Premier
 Wen Jiabao  said China’s economic growth target has been cut to
7.5 percent from an 8 percent goal in place since 2005. Global
stocks dropped.  Slower growth in China is impacting “cyclically oriented”
names, according to Rizwan Hussain, a New York-based credit
strategist at Morgan Stanley. “The other thing people are
wrestling with is we’ve had recently a string of somewhat
softer-than-expected data,” he said in a telephone interview.  European services and manufacturing output shrank in
February more than earlier estimated, Markit Economics said, and
U.S. factory orders fell in January for the first time in three
months.  Greece ’s private creditors decide this week whether to
sign off on the country’s debt restructuring.  Contracts on ArcelorMittal, the Luxembourg-based steel
producer, climbed 22.2 basis points to 416.9 basis points,
according to data provider CMA.  Highest This Month  The swaps index, which typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves, reached 95.9
today, the highest level on an intraday basis since Feb. 27.
Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to
meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  “Today’s pullback isn’t so much about investor nervousness
as it is about profit taking in the secondary markets and heavy
new issuance,” said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist in
Philadelphia at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, which oversees $12
billion in fixed-income assets. “The list of new issues is
coming in pretty strong,” pushing issuer’s credit-default swap
spreads higher, he said.  Contracts tied to Wells Fargo debt added 6.4 basis points
to 94.5, and those on JPMorgan climbed 7.2 basis points to 114,
according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Swaps on Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s debt climbed 19.2 basis
points to 250.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate  swap spread , a measure of
stress in credit markets, widened 1.06 basis points to 25.75
basis points. The measure falls when investors favor assets such
as corporate bonds and rises when they seek the perceived safety
of  government securities .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  