-- Credit Suisse Offers to Buy Back $4.4 Billion Hybrid Bonds
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2012-03-05T20:25:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/credit-suisse-in-tender-offer-for-tier-1-tier-2-securities.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,
 Switzerland ’s second-biggest bank, offered to repurchase 4
billion Swiss francs ($4.4 billion) in outstanding tier 1 and
tier 2 securities as it prepares to replace them with capital
instruments that satisfy new Swiss and Basel III rules.  “This is another important step for Credit Suisse and its
investors in transitioning to the new regulatory regime,” Chief
Financial Officer  David Mathers  said in an e-mailed statement
today. Credit Suisse plans to change “its  capital structure 
well in advance of the required implementation dates,” he said.  Credit Suisse is selling contingent capital bonds to
replace so-called hybrid debt, which will no longer count as the
highest-quality capital under rules approved by the  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision  in 2010. The bank today and
tomorrow is meeting investors before a possible sale of
contingent capital notes, a banker with knowledge of the plans,
who declined to be identified because the information is
private, said last week.  The notes will be denominated in francs, according to the
person with knowledge of the plan. The bonds would convert into
Credit Suisse shares if its common equity ratio falls below 7
percent,  Fitch Ratings  said in a statement today. The rating
company added that it assigned an expected rating of BBB- to the
bonds.  Credit Suisse agreed in February of last year to sell $3.5
billion and 2.5 billion francs of contingent convertible bonds,
known as CoCos, to existing shareholders in  Qatar  and  Saudi
Arabia  in exchange for tier 1 capital notes sold in 2008. The
bonds, which would convert into shares if the bank’s common-
equity ratio falls below 7 percent, will be issued no earlier
than October 2013. The bank also sold $2 billion of CoCos to
public investors.  Loss Buffer  Under current rules, banks can count hybrid debt --
perpetual securities that can only be redeemed with regulatory
approval -- as tier 1 capital. Rule-makers decided in 2010 to
phase out most hybrid debt as capital starting in 2013 because
it failed to provide a buffer for losses in the financial
meltdown. Credit Suisse’s tier 1 capital at the end of 2011
included 10.9 billion francs, or 30 percent, in hybrid debt
under the so-called Basel 2.5 rules.  Credit Suisse’s repurchase offer is for 10 bonds with
different acceptance priority levels. Securities can be tendered
until 11:59 p.m. New York time on March 30, while bonds tendered
at or before 5 p.m. New York time on March 16 will be eligible
for an additional early tender payment, the bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 