-- Oil Trades Near Two-Day High as Tension With Iran Counters Economy Outlook
-- B y   A n n   K o h
-- 2012-03-06T08:02:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/crude-oil-rises-as-much-as-0-6-advancing-for-a-second-day-in-new-york.html
Crude traded near the highest price
in two days in New York as the risk that  Iran  will disrupt oil
supplies countered doubts that an economic rebound is intact.  Futures were little changed after rising as much as 0.6
percent. Israel reserves the right to defend itself and keep
Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon, Israel’s Prime Minister
 Benjamin Netanyahu  said today in Washington. The world economy
will grow this year at a pace trailing its longer-term trend,
according to the  Reserve Bank  of Australia. South Korea’s
finance ministry said higher  oil prices  are making the nation’s
economic outlook increasingly uncertain.  “The lower side is supported by the Iran situation, but
still people don’t have confidence to buy aggressively,” said
 Ken Hasegawa , a commodity-derivative sales manager at Newedge
Group in Tokyo.  Oil for April delivery was at $106.74 a barrel in
electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange, up 2
cents, at 4 p.m. Singapore time. The contract climbed 2 cents
yesterday to $106.72, the highest settlement since March 1.
Prices fell last week for the first time in four weeks, reducing
their gain this year to 8.2 percent.  Brent oil for April settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange was at $123.72 a barrel, down 8 cents.
The European benchmark contract was at a  premium  of $17 to New
York-traded West Texas Intermediate grade, compared with a
record $27.88 on Oct. 14.  Slowing Momentum  Oil is pared earlier gains in New York as a measure of
technical momentum declined. On the daily chart, the moving
average convergence-divergence oscillator is poised to drop
below its signal line for the first time in about a month. That
would indicate a bearish crossover, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Investors tend to sell contracts when the
oscillator is decreasing.  U.S. crude stockpiles rose 1.5 million barrels last week,
according to the median estimate of seven analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News before an Energy Department report tomorrow.
Gasoline stockpiles fell  2 million barrels  and distillate-fuel
supplies, a category that includes heating oil and diesel,
dropped 1.8 million barrels, the survey showed.  The industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  will
release its own stockpile data in  Washington  today.  Economic sanctions on Iran haven’t led the country to
curtail its nuclear program, and Israel must be able to defend
itself against a threat to its existence, Netanyahu said in a
speech to the American Israel Public Affairs Committee yesterday.  ‘All Options’  In a meeting at the White House, U.S. President  Barack Obama  told Netanyahu “there is still a window” for a
diplomatic solution to the confrontation, while “all options”
are available to prevent a nuclear-armed Iran.  Iran is the second-largest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, which pumps about a third of the
world’s crude. Its military capabilities have grown and the
government would retaliate in kind against an Israeli attack,
Tehran-based Press TV reported.  Oil could “easily” surge by $10 or $20 a barrel if  Israel 
launches an attack, predicted Hasegawa at Newedge. “We always
have a dangerous situation, and still a possibility of price
spikes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ann Koh in Singapore at   akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  