-- CVC, ValueAct Work on Joint Cash Offer for British Software Maker Misys
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-03-05T11:46:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/cvc-valueact-work-on-joint-cash-offer-for-british-software-maker-misys.html
CVC Capital Partners Ltd. and
ValueAct Capital said they are working on a joint cash offer for
 Misys Plc (MSY) , increasing the number of suitors for the British
 software company .  ValueAct, London-based Misys’s largest shareholder, joined
forces with buyout firm CVC Capital after formerly expressing
“strong support” for a merger of Misys with  Temenos Group AG (TEMN) .
Misys said in a separate statement today it is still in talks
with both Temenos and rival bidder Vista Equity Partners and has
formed an independent committee of board directors to consider
all offers.  “The proposed Misys and Temenos all share merger has
strategic logic but after further consideration we have decided
to evaluate whether we can make an alternative proposal that
provides the certainty of cash upon completion,” ValueAct
founder Jeffrey Ubben said in a statement.  Misys and Geneva-based Temenos on Feb. 3 said they started
talks about a merger that would create the largest vendor of
banking software. On Feb. 20, Misys said it received a rival bid
from Vista Equity Partners. Misys today rose as much as 7.2
percent in London trading, valuing the company at 1.1 billion
pounds ($1.7 billion). Temenos has until tomorrow afternoon to
announce a firm intention to make an offer.  Companies that sell financial software to businesses are
proving attractive to private-equity firms as mounting banking
regulations increase demand. In August,  Bain Capital  agreed to
buy a majority stake in MYOB Pty Ltd., an Australian provider of
 business software  that also attracted a bid from Sage Group Plc.  Misys agreed to the Temenos proposal last month, which
would give the shareholders of the British business about 54
percent of the combined company. Previous talks to sell the
business to  Fidelity National Information Services Inc. (FIS) 
collapsed last year when the two failed to agree on price, a
person with knowledge of the matter said at the time.  Temenos said Feb. 21 that talks with Misys were ongoing.
Temenos fell as much as 4.8 percent to 16.95 Swiss francs today,
and traded at 17.3 francs at 12:45 p.m. in Zurich.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  