-- Dar Al Arkan Surges After Developer’s Debt Pledge: Riyadh Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-03-05T13:26:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/dar-al-arkan-surges-after-developer-s-debt-pledge-riyadh-mover.html
Dar Al Arkan Real Estate Development
Co. (ALARKAN)  rose to the highest in more than a year, leading gains on
 Saudi Arabia (SABIC) ’s benchmark, after the property developer said it’s
on track to meet debt payments.  Shares of the Riyadh-based company surged 6.4 percent to 10
riyals, the highest since January 2011, at the 3:30 p.m. close
in the Saudi capital. The stock was the most-heavily traded by
volume on the  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  and the third-biggest
gainer in  Saudi Arabia . Dar Al Arkan’s shares, which have
advanced 38 percent in 2012, trade at a price-to- earnings ratio
of 9.9 times compared with 15.4 times for the country’s
benchmark.  Saudi Arabia’s second-biggest property company by market
value said on Feb. 29 it “categorically” denied speculation it
“is facing any sort of crisis.” The comments came after a
website said it had “prepared an archive of information and
evidence which details a series of fraudulent actions,
regulatory breaches and corporate malpractice.”  A rally in Dar Al Arkan’s stock is “expected after the
company replied to the rumors,” said Abdullah Al-Saif, senior
trader of fixed income and equity at Saudi Hollandi Capital in
 Riyadh . The stock fell in the last four years, including a 19
percent slump in 2011.  Repaying Debt  Dar Al Arkan plans to repay about 5 billion riyals ($1.3
billion) this year as it sells land to build cash holdings,
Chief Financial Officer Andy Raheja said in an interview on Feb
15. The company’s  fourth-quarter profit  beat analyst estimates
even after dropping 12 percent to 289.6 million riyals because
of lower land and apartment sales.  “Our business is robust and we are on track to repay all
debts as they come due including the upcoming sukuk in July,”
Dar Al Arkan said.  Saudi Arabia announced plans last year to invest $130
billion in social and housing projects as the largest Arab
economy seeks to meet the growing real estate demands of its 28
million people.  The developer has  6.2 billion riyals of bonds due  through
to the end of 2015, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
This includes a $1 billion Islamic bond due in July.  Ten analysts recommend investors  buy shares , while five
have a hold rating on the stock, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. One analyst recommends investors sell.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  