-- Deutsche Telekom Rivals SAP in Small-Business Web Programs
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-03-05T12:24:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/deutsche-telekom-rivals-sap-in-small-business-web-programs-1-.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ,  Europe ’s
second-largest phone company, will offer applications for small
and medium-sized companies to store data and run software via
the Internet, in a move that brings it into competition with  SAP
AG. (SAP)   The operator will start the Business Marketplace platform
with so-called cloud computing applications for Internet-based
customer-relationship management and accounting software, Chief
Executive Officer  Rene Obermann  said today.  “The potential among smaller companies is enormous,”
Obermann told reporters at the CeBit technology fair in Hanover,
Germany. “We have to make sure we get a large-enough share of
that.”  Technology companies such as SAP, Deutsche Telekom, Oracle
Corp., Apple Inc. and Microsoft Corp. are promoting cloud
computing as a secure way to outsource data centers and reduce
the need for pricey servers and other hardware. The potential
market is 10.7 billion euros ($14.1 billion) for  Germany , where
only 12 percent of smaller businesses use cloud functions,
Obermann said.  Deutsche Telekom, based in Bonn, currently has cloud-
computing sales of about 500 million euros, of which about 140
million euros comes from small and medium-sized enterprises, he
said. The CEO plans to boost services such as telemedicine,
online marketplaces and downloads of music and games to combat a
fall in sales from traditional phone services.  Less Complexity  Deutsche Telekom fell 0.1 percent to 8.65 euros in
 Frankfurt  as of 1:12 p.m. while SAP gained 0.4 percent to 51.42
euros.  The software will target clients that don’t need the
complexity that SAP systems offer, said Dirk Backofen, head of
marketing for Deutsche Telekom’s German corporate business.  “Applications for large corporate customers have a certain
complexity when it comes to integration and installation,” he
said. “We’ll to try to make these applications simpler for
smaller companies -- no bells and whistles left and right.”  The company also said it will charge private customers 39
cents for using its secure electronic letter “De-Mail,” beyond
three messages per month which are free. The price compares with
 Deutsche Post AG (DPW) ’s “E-Postbief” product, which costs 55 cents
per mail.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Cornelius Rahn at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  