-- Digital Health Data at Risk From Manager Support, Study Finds
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2012-03-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/digital-health-data-at-risk-from-manager-support-study-finds.html
Insufficient funding and lack of
executive support are mainly responsible for security breaches
involving patients’ electronic health records, a study found.  Executives at health-care companies and providers must
improve cost assessments to include payments from class-action
lawsuits, said the report released today in  Washington  by the
nonprofit American National Standards Institute. Its members
include  Kaiser Permanente  and data-security sellers such as
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  as well as the U.S. Defense Department and the
 Food and Drug Administration .  “No organization can afford to ignore the potential
consequences of a data breach,” according to the report by the
institute, which helps businesses and agencies set standards.
“To successfully mitigate data breach threats and risks,
leaders of organizations in the health-care sector must
understand the evolving health care-ecosystem.”  Concerns that patients’ personal data may be vulnerable to
theft may grow as President Barack Obama’s administration
increases incentive payments to doctors and hospitals to spur
adoption of digital health records. The payments established by
the 2009 economic stimulus legislation may reach $27.4 billion.  The frequency of data breaches at health organizations
jumped 32 percent in 2011 from a year earlier, costing the
industry an estimated $6.5 billion, according to a Dec. 1 study
by the Ponemon Institute LLC, a Traverse City, Michigan-based
information-security research group.  Survey Results  Executives at health-care providers, pharmaceutical
companies and medical-device makers surveyed in a Jan. 31
Bloomberg Government study said they would need to increase
spending on cybersecurity to about $155 million a year on
average from $23 million to stop 95 percent of hacking attacks.
The analysis was based on interviews with 56 executives from 24
health-care organizations.  The American National Standards Institute study released
today found that almost 60 percent of about 100 health-care
executives surveyed cited lack of funding as the main reason for
not securing digital records. Forty percent cited insufficient
time, while 32 percent pointed to a lack of senior executive
support.  The report offers chief financial officers and chief
privacy officers a five-step model to make a business case to
top executives for investing to protect health records. The
model is intended to help organizations assess security risks,
identify gaps in protecting data and calculate potential costs
of a breach.  “What we want to demonstrate is the work that the private
sector can do on a key national priority,” James McCabe, a
senior director at the institute, said in an interview.  The institute conducted the study with the Internet
Security Alliance, a Washington-based trade association, and the
 Santa Fe  Group, a consulting firm in Santa Fe,  New Mexico .  The  U.S. Department of Health  and Human Services began
collecting data on breaches in August 2009. More than 385
incidents were reported affecting at least 10 million patients
nationwide in the first two years, the most recent information
available.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  