-- DOD Mismanages Disabled Vets Contracts: Report
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-03-05T20:09:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/dod-mismanages-disabled-vets-contracts-report.html
The Defense Department is
mismanaging a nine-year-old  effort to set aside  contracts for
companies owned by disabled veterans, according to the
Pentagon’s inspector general.  A sample of 27 contracts from fiscal 2010 found $340.3
million in work was awarded to contractors “who potentially
misstated” their company’s eligibility, the inspector general
said in a report to be posted today on the office’s website.  Congress created the program in 2003 to provide
opportunities throughout the federal government to companies at
least 51 percent-controlled by veterans disabled in service. The
veteran must have responsibility for long-term decision-making
and day-to-day management.  Controls “were not adequate” in verifying that recipients
qualified, according to the inspector general’s Feb. 29 report.
It said the Pentagon’s Office of Small Business must put better
procedures in place to verify eligibility.  “If the office does not establish adequate procedures, it
will continue to convey the message that assisting service-
disabled veterans is not a priority,” according to the report
signed by Amy Frontz, the inspector general’s principal
assistant for auditing.  “The lack of action compromises the integrity and
intention of the program, which is to serve veterans with
disabilities incurred or aggravated in the line of duty,”
according to the report.  A Navy contract to a Seattle company valued at as much as
$200 million has been referred to the  Small Business
Administration  for investigation, according to the report, which
didn’t identify the company.  Potential Fraud  Three contractors have been referred to the Pentagon’s
Defense Criminal Investigative Service for potential fraud
because they received awards though their disabled-veteran
status was rejected by the Small Business Administration.  Federal agencies must meet an annual goal of awarding at
least 3 percent of contract amounts to such businesses under a
2004 executive order by President  George W. Bush  expanding the
program. The Pentagon hasn’t hit the goal, awarding $5.3 billion
in fiscal 2010, or 1.8 percent of its contracting dollars. That
was a $1 billion increase over 1.4 percent in fiscal 2009,
according to data listed by the Pentagon’s Small Business
Office.  The inspector general’s report follows congressional
testimony by the Government Accountability Office Feb. 7 that
weaknesses throughout government left the program for service-
disabled veterans vulnerable to fraud and abuse.  Veterans Department  The Veterans Affairs Department inspector general found in
a July 2011 report that the VA awarded at least 1,400 contracts
to ineligible businesses. The VA’s inspector general said last
year that the agency overstated by 17 percent the number of
contracts it awarded in fiscal 2010.  The Pentagon’s inspector general found similar
overstatement. Citing human error, the report said $1.3 billion
in contracts were inaccurately coded in the government’s primary
online procurement database as having been awarded to companies
headed by service-disabled veterans.  The federal government and industry rely on the database
“to assess the impact of federal procurement on the nation’s
economy and the extent to which awards are made to businesses in
the various socioeconomic categories,” according to the report.  Pentagon Response  The Pentagon’s  Small Business Program  will issue guidance
this year reminding contracting officers of their duty to verify
contractor claims that they are certified to participate, Andre
Gudger, the program’s director, said in a three-page response
included in the inspector general’s report.  Gudger also said the department will continue its efforts
to improve the accuracy of data entries into the federal
procurement system.  Navy Rear Admiral Althea Coetzee said in a written response
that the service was referring the case of the Seattle company
uncovered by Pentagon auditors to the Small Business
Administration.  The Naval Facilities Engineering Command-Northwest awarded
the $200 million contract to the business “even though evidence
was insufficient to support” its claimed status as owned by a
service-disable veteran, the report found.  Business records indicated the company had six equal
partners and the disabled veteran lived 2,266 miles (3,646
kilometers) away from  Seattle  in Anchorage,  Alaska , according to
the report.  “Considering the distance between the service-disabled
veteran’s residence and the contractor’s location, it is not
reasonable to believe that the contractor” met the program’s
eligibility requirements, the report found.  The inspector general said $179.4 million not disbursed for
the contract “should be put to better use.”  Bridget Serchak, a spokeswoman for the inspector general’s
office, declined to identify the contractor, citing “a
potential for future investigative actions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  