-- Electric-Car Loans Dry Up Ahead of Election on Solyndra
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-03-05T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/electric-car-producers-shun-u-s-loans-as-post-solyndra-red-tape-increases.html
Four times, the U.S. Energy
Department offered terms to Bright Automotive Inc. for a loan
the startup company was seeking to finance production of
electric commercial vans.  Each successive, conditional offer arrived with stiffer
terms, Chief Operating Officer Mike Donoughe said in an
interview. He likened the experience to offering to buy a car
for $20,000 and having the dealer try to bargain up to $40,000.
Chrysler Group LLC Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne 
made similar comments before the company last month withdrew its
application to the same program.  While Energy Secretary Steven Chu says the vehicle program
is evaluating applications, it hasn’t awarded new money since
the bankruptcy of solar-panel maker Solyndra LLC, which won a
$535 million loan guarantee through another department program.  “In an election year, there will be more caution and delay
as a result,” said  Julian Zelizer , a political historian at
 Princeton University . Solyndra’s bankruptcy filing put a damper
on all Energy Department loans, Zelizer said in an e-mail.  “Inevitably it will slow down the program the closer we
get to the election,” he said.  The $25 billion vehicle-loan program, created in 2008, last
made an award in March 2011.  Republicans subpoenaed documents about the Solyndra loan
from President  Barack Obama ’s administration, questioning
whether campaign fundraiser  George Kaiser , whose family
foundation was the company’s biggest investor, pressed for the
loan guarantee.  Bright, Chrysler  Bright, based in Rochester Hills,  Michigan , said last week
it’s shutting down because it can’t wait any longer to receive
money from the Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing
Program.  Chrysler, based in  Auburn Hills , Michigan, and controlled
by  Fiat SpA (F) , withdrew its application for less than $3.5 billion
in loans Feb. 16, about six weeks after Marchionne told
reporters at the North American International Auto Show in
 Detroit , “You ask yourself whether it’s worth it -- that’s the
question I keep on asking myself.”  In January, the department canceled a loan commitment of
$730 million to  OAO Severstal (SVST) ,  Russia ’s second-largest
steelmaker, saying the company had done much of the work for
which it had requested the loan in 2009.  Fisker Automotive Inc., which was awarded $529 million in
loans in April 2010, last month halted work on the Wilmington,
Delaware, auto factory where it planned to produce its first
U.S.-made plug-in electric vehicle. It disclosed that the Energy
Department had blocked access to most of its loan money since
May because of unmet milestones.  Taxpayer Interests  Aptera Motors Inc., a California electric-car company
supported by Representative  Darrell Issa , chairman of the U.S.
House committee leading a probe of the department’s loan
programs, closed in December after it couldn’t get private
financing to match a $150 million conditional loan commitment
from the Energy Department.  The department is proceeding with loan application reviews
carefully even as markets for private capital improve, Chu said.  “We’re continuing to look at the loans and process the
loans,” Chu told reporters on March 1. “In all the loans, we
are certainly committed to looking out after the taxpayer money.
This is a very fundamental part of this. While we were asked
through the Congress to invest in innovative new technologies,
we also have to balance that with looking out after the taxpayer
money.”  Ford, Nissan  The Energy Department has awarded $8.4 billion from the
vehicle-manufacturing loan program since 2009 to companies
including  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , which sells the Leaf plug-in car;
 Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , maker of the electric Roadster; and  Ford
Motor Co. (F) , which last week said its plug-in Focus was certified
by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency to offer the
equivalent of 105 miles (169 kilometers) per gallon of gasoline.  Bright wanted to benefit from Obama’s push to buy more
energy-efficient vehicles for the U.S. government fleet,
Donoughe said. The company planned to manufacture vehicles at a
closed AM General LLC plant in Indiana and had the support of
Senator  Debbie Stabenow , a Michigan Democrat, and Democratic and
Republican Congress members from Indiana, according to letters
provided by the Energy Department.  “It’s unfortunate that more companies have not been
approved, but we are looking at options to ensure that the
initiative will continue to help manufacturers create American
jobs,” Stabenow, who helped create the program, said in an e-
mailed statement.  ‘Disband It’  Obama, who has set 2015 for all light-duty vehicles bought
for the U.S. fleet will be alternative-fuel, on March 1 said in
a speech in Nashua,  New Hampshire , that by that year, all
vehicle purchases will be of “fuel efficient” cars and trucks.  Energy Department staff were in Bright’s offices as
recently as last month, spending three days reviewing the
operations for the loan, Donoughe said, estimating the agency
spent as much as $10 million reviewing the application, which
was submitted in December 2008.  By the fourth offer, the loan terms “were so one-sided to
make the applicant say ‘I can’t meet those terms so we’ll go
away,’” Donoughe said. “They kept ratcheting up the terms to
the point at which we just couldn’t abide by them.”  Chu today is scheduled to deliver the keynote address at a
conference on fuel-efficient technologies for commercial
vehicles. The speech will be in Indianapolis, less than an
hour’s drive from Anderson,  Indiana , where Bright plans to wind
down operations and look for new jobs for its workers.  “In my mind, not only should they close the program, they
should take the whole lot of the loan-program office and disband
it,” Donoughe said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  