-- Emerging Stocks Fall Most in Three Weeks on Slower China Growth
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2012-03-05T23:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/emerging-stocks-fall-most-in-week-as-china-targets-lower-growth.html
Emerging-market stocks declined the
most in three weeks after  China  set the lowest economic growth
target since 2004 and euro-area manufacturing and services
shrank.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  fell 1.4 percent to
1,065.30 at the close in New York, slipping from a seven-month
high.  PetroChina Co. (601857)  slid 1.1 percent after saying losses from
processing crude last year were larger than expected.  Vale SA (VALE5) ,
the Brazilian iron-ore producer whose top export market is
China, dropped the most in three months.  OAO Gazprom (GAZP) , the
world’s biggest natural gas producer, gained 2 percent after
 Vladimir Putin  won  Russia ’s presidential election and the
benchmark  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  advanced to a seven-month high. Indian
stocks hit a one-month low.  The Chinese government will aim for economic growth of 7.5
percent this year, the lowest goal since 2004, according to a
transcript of Premier Wen Jiabao’s address to the National
People’s Congress in Beijing today. European services and
manufacturing output shrank in February more than previously
estimated, Markit Economics said.  “China has become a very important trading partner, of
course, throughout  Asia  but also for Latin American countries,”
Daniel Lenz, chief emerging market strategist at DZ Bank AG,
said by phone from  Frankfurt . The growth target is “at the
lower end of market expectations.”  Emerging-market stocks  pared this year’s advance in the
index to 16 percent, beating the 9.3 percent jump in developed-
market equities. Developing-nation stocks trade for 10.7 times
estimated earnings, cheaper than the 12.9 multiple of stocks in
the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of developed-market shares.  Euro-Zone Output  Vietnam ’s  VN Index (VNINDEX)  jumped 4 percent, the most in Asia,
after the prime minister signed a directive aimed at developing
the nation’s equity markets.  Euro-area services  and manufacturing output shrank in
February as the region’s economy struggled to rebound from a
contraction in the fourth quarter of last year. An index based
on a survey of purchasing managers in the services industry
dropped to 48.8, London-based Markit Economics said on its
website today. A reading below 50 indicates contraction.  Greece ’s private creditors decide this week whether to
approve the biggest sovereign-debt restructuring in history.  Brazil ’s  Bovespa Index (IBOV)  slumped 1.2 percent, the first drop
in three days. Vale declined 2.9 percent and competitor  MMX
Mineracao e Metalicos SA  lost 4.1 percent.  Putin Wins  Moscow’s  Micex Index (MICEX)  gained 1.1 percent to the highest
since Aug. 3 after Putin  won  about 64 percent of the vote, with
almost 100 percent of the ballots counted.  OAO Novatek (NVTK) , the
country’s largest independent gas producer, jumped 2.4 percent.  “It’s clear that Putin has broad and deep support and that
should be a comfort to markets,” Mattias Westman, managing
director of London-based Prosperity Capital Management, which
has about $5 billion of Russian assets under management, said
from Moscow yesterday. “We’re hoping this election will lead to
accelerated reforms and that should be good for state-controlled
companies.”  Gazprom (GAZP) , Russia’s largest company and gas export monopoly,
jumped in Moscow to the highest level in more than seven months.  The  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  slid 2 percent in Istanbul and
the  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH)  retreated 0.5 percent in
Johannesburg. The  BUX Index (BUX)  tumbled 1.6 percent in  Hungary  and
the  WIG20 Index (WIG20)  fell 1.8 percent in Warsaw.  Asian Stocks Slide  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell 0.6 percent and the  Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland stocks in  Hong Kong 
lost 2.3 percent.  The  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, fell 1.6 percent
in Mumbai before the results of state elections that may be
crucial in determining whether Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  has
enough support for his economic agenda, which includes pouring
$1 trillion into revamping choked transport and power networks.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell 2 basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 346 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  