-- Enbridge Plans to Start Shipments on Illinois Crude Pipeline This Week
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k   a n d   S t e p h e n   V o s s
-- 2012-03-05T21:52:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/enbridge-shuts-illinois-crude-pipeline-after-fire-oil-prices-may-advance.html
Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  plans to resume crude
deliveries this week on an  Illinois  pipeline that shut over the
weekend, allowing supply to reach Chicago-area refineries run by
 BP Plc (BP/) , Exxon Mobil Corp. and Citgo Petroleum Corp.  Line 14  may start operating late on March 7 and Line 64 the
following day, Lorraine Little, a spokeswoman in Superior,
Wisconsin, for Calgary-based Enbridge, said in an e-mail
yesterday. Lines upstream of Superior will be slowed or shutdown
to manage tank levels, she said.  Enbridge halted crude deliveries on line 14/64 after two
vehicles collided, starting a fire at the pumping station near
New Lenox, Illinois, 36 miles (58 kilometers) southwest of
Chicago. Two people were  killed  and several others injured in
the crash.  “The pipeline closure could pressure local prices in the
North American market, but I can’t see any price implications
for global markets,” said  Carsten Fritsch , an analyst at
Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt.  West Texas Intermediate crude oil for April delivery rose 2
cents to $106.72 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .
Jason Schenker, the president of Prestige Economics in Austin,
Texas, said the Enbridge incident may affect regional U.S.
prices.  Midwest Refineries  BP’s 420,000-barrel-a-day refinery in Whiting, Indiana,
isn’t affected, said a person with knowledge of the plant’s
operations.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  said its 238,000-barrel-a-day
Joliet refinery in Illinois receives oil from the Enbridge
pipeline system.  “At this point contractual obligations are being met. As
is our practice we do not comment on day-to-day operations,”
Rachael Moore, a spokeswoman for the Irving, Texas-based
company, said in an e-mail.  Fernando Garay , a Citgo spokesman, didn’t immediately reply
to an e-mail asking if the company’s 170,500 barrels of crude a
day Lemont, Illinois, refinery was affected. Shane Pochard, a
spokesman for Marathon Petroleum Corp., which operates a
215,000-barrel-a-day plant in Robinson, Illinois, declined to
comment.  Illinois had 973,000 barrels a day of refining capacity in
January 2011, 5.5 percent of the U.S. total, according to the
Energy Department.  The 14/64 pipe can ship 320,000 barrels a day from
Superior, Wisconsin, to Mokena, Illinois, while 6A can carry
670,000 barrels a day between Superior and Griffith, Indiana,
according to the Enbridge  website . Both pipelines carry light,
heavy or synthetic crude to refineries in the  Chicago  area.  Reduced Rates  Enbridge also slowed the movement of oil on its 2B and 3
lines running from  Canada  into the U.S. to better manage
terminal inflow after the Illinois incident, the company said.
The 2B line can carry 410,000 barrels a day, while the 3
pipeline can carry 390,000 barrels daily.  “This going to put pressure on producers” by reducing
their ability to move oil to buyers, said  Andy Lipow , president
of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston. “All of the outbound
pipeline capacity out of  North Dakota  and Canada was already
running at capacity,” he said. More pared pipeline capacity is
the last thing producers need, he said.  About 20,000 gallons of oil from the 24-inch pipeline were
released, according to a March 3  filing  with the Illinois
Emergency Management Agency by the New Lenox fire district.
Another filing made with the agency from Enbridge said the
release was 2,500 gallons.  Line 5  Enbridge’s 491,200-barrel-a-day Line 5, which carries oil
from  Wisconsin  to  Michigan  and Ontario, has been operating at a
reduced rate since Feb. 17. That’s when flow resumed after being
shut for two days when a leak was discovered near Sterling,
Michigan. There has been no change in the operations of the
pipeline, Little said yesterday.  Crude stockpiles in the Midwest, an area classified by the
Energy Department as  PADD 2 (DOESCRU2) , increased 1.8 percent to 97 million
barrels in the week ended Feb. 24, the highest level since
September, the department said in a Feb. 29 report.  Canadian and North Dakotan oil grades will trade at an
increasing discount to WTI crude, the U.S. benchmark grade
traded in  New York , Lipow said.  Syncrude (USCSSYNS)  oil’s discount to WTI widened 50 cents to $5.50 a
barrel at 4:08 p.m. in New York, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Western Canada Select (USCSWCAS) ’s discount widened 50 cents to
$32.50 a barrel below WTI.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Voss in London at 
 sev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  