-- End of Irish Europe Love Affair May Hurt Bonds
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2012-03-05T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/end-of-irish-love-affair-with-europe-may-hurt-bonds-euro-credit.html
Ireland is falling out of love with
 Europe , and the consequences may be costly.  The country is preparing to vote for a fifth time in 11
years on a European Union treaty. Unlike previous referendums,
an Irish rejection of the euro region’s latest financial
agreement wouldn’t veto the deal for the rest of Europe. For
Ireland, it may spell rising bond yields, tougher access to
money and questions over its euro status.  “Although Ireland remains a pro-euro country, the love
affair with Europe has definitely suffered in recent years,”
said Frank Oeland Hansen, a senior economist at Danske Bank A/S
from Copenhagen. “The referendum may cause some negative
sentiment for Irish sovereign risk in terms of question marks
over Ireland’s long-term position in the euro and how the
government hopes to return to the  bond market .”  The specter of the vote is looming over markets just as
investors had become more sanguine about Ireland’s prospects of
reviving its crippled economy and avoiding a second bailout by
the EU and International Monetary Fund.  Before Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  announced the referendum
on Feb. 28, the yield on Ireland’s 2020 bond, its  benchmark , had
dropped to 6.81 percent, less than half the euro-era high of
13.8 percent on July 18. It has since risen to 6.97 percent, 535
basis points more than  German debt  of similar maturity. No date
has yet been set for the vote.  “I would expect uncertainty to seep into the Irish
sovereign,” said Cathal O’Leary, head of fixed income at NCB
Stockbrokers in Dublin. “The run it has been on for the past
three months may come to a halt.”  No Exit  Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said in December a vote on
the so-called fiscal compact agreed by EU leaders would
effectively be a ballot on euro membership. Opponents of the
treaty dispute that view, and since the vote was announced, the
government has stepped back from euro-exit rhetoric. The vote
will give the Irish a chance to reaffirm commitment to the euro,
Deputy Prime Minister  Eamon Gilmore  said.  “Irish people understand the importance of the euro,”
Gilmore said in a Feb. 29 interview. “As a small very open
economy dependent on trade and foreign direct investment, the
issue of confidence in the country and confidence in the
currency that we hold is hugely important.”  Irish voters rejected changes to Europe’s governing treaty
in 2001 and 2008, before reruns passed the proposals. The Irish
veto held up the rules coming into force. This time, just 12 of
the 17 euro countries must back the financial treaty, which sets
new budget rules and broadens a bailout fund, to take effect.  Storm in Guinness  “Ireland’s decision to hold a referendum will most likely
end up as a storm in a pint of Guinness than a major stumbling
block in the path of the successful implementation,” said  Simon Smith , chief economist at foreign-exchange broker FXPro Group
Ltd. in  London . “Ireland has a history of creating a fuss but
then falling into line with such referenda.”  Irish voters may be concerned about the implications of
rejecting the treaty, two surveys published yesterday signaled.
The  polls , commissioned by the Sunday Business Post and the
Sunday Independent newspapers, show the “yes” side has a lead
of about 20 percentage points as the campaign opened.  The polling figures only include people who expressed a
preference. Previous unsuccessful campaigns have seen support
for European treaties erode as the vote neared.  Default Swaps  The euro has weakened since the Irish announcement on Feb.
28. The cost of insuring against Ireland defaulting for five
years rose 15 basis points to 595, according to prices from data
provider CMA. That implies a 40 percent probability of Ireland
failing to meet its obligations within five years.  An Irish rejection in the plebiscite may deprive the
country of possible future aid once the euro area’s permanent
bailout fund goes into operation. While the nation’s 67.5
billion-euro ($89.5 billion) international rescue in 2010 means
the state is fully funded through 2013, the government is aiming
for a full return to credit markets next year.  “The negotiation of any additional support at the end of
the existing program could be seriously compromised, which might
result in significantly higher cost of funding for the Irish
economy,” Royal Bank of Scotland Plc economists, including  Nick Matthews , said in an e-mail on Feb. 28. “The negotiating power
vis-à-vis other European and international creditors will be
significantly undermined by a refusal to ratify the compact.”  Austerity Focus  To be sure, an Irish rejection may not be pain free for
politicians elsewhere in the region because it may focus
European voters on the pain of austerity measures. The compact
requires nations to virtually eliminate structural deficits,
creates an “automatic correction mechanism” and enshrines the
new measures in national law.  The treaty also provides for tighter control of tax and
spending by governments that overstep the bloc’s deficit limit
of 3 percent of gross domestic product.  Francois Hollande , the
Socialist candidate in  France ’s presidential election, has said
he may seek to renegotiate the compact should he defeat  Nicolas Sarkozy  in April and May voting.  “There is likely widespread public disapproval of the
fiscal straightjacket, not just in Ireland, but across Europe,”
said  Ciaran O’Hagan , head of euro-area rate strategy at Societe
Generale SA in Paris. “So an Irish ‘no,’ unlike how events
unfolded in  Greece , will find widespread support.”  The implications for Ireland may be greater, as the nation
struggles to escape its worst recession in modern history and
seeks European help to reduce the burden of banking debt.  “It is clear that ratification can go ahead without
support from Ireland,” said  Dermot O’Leary , an economist at
 Goodbody Stockbrokers  in Dublin. “A ‘no’ vote by Ireland would
certainly leave the country isolated in the euro-area.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dara Doyle in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  