-- Merkel Will Struggle for Coalition Crisis Backing, Trittin Says
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-03-05T09:11:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/merkel-will-struggle-for-coalition-crisis-backing-trittin-says.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  will
struggle to win parliamentary majorities within her coalition
for measures to fight the debt crisis as support in her ranks
dwindles, opposition Green Party leader  Juergen Trittin  said.  While Merkel pushed a 130 billion-euro ($171 billion)
second bailout package for  Greece  through the lower house of
parliament on Feb. 27 with support from the opposition, her
coalition failed to muster an absolute majority on the strength
of its own lawmakers. Previous anti-crisis measures have all
passed with a coalition majority.  “The chancellor will lose support bit-by-bit with every
vote on the euro,” Trittin, who is co-leader of the Greens’
parliamentary caucus, said in an interview in Berlin on March 1.
“We will continue to stand by  Europe , but you can’t rely on the
coalition anymore and the majorities will dwindle.”  Six days after the vote and two weeks after a spat over
selecting  Germany ’s next president almost ended Merkel’s
government with the Free Democratic Party, coalition leaders met
late yesterday in Berlin to try to find common ground. With
agreement on patent rules, energy efficiency and education, the
ruling parties emerged in the evening and made a show of unity.  “In a very friendly atmosphere we found agreement in a
whole series of political areas,” Hermann Groehe, the general-
secretary of Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union , told reporters
after the talks. He stood alongside his counterparts in the FDP
and the CDU’s Bavarian Christian Social Union sister party.  ‘In Full Swing’  Such comity was lacking when 17 coalition lawmakers broke
ranks over the Greek package in the lower house, or Bundestag.
The 304 votes from Merkel allies fell short of the 311 required
for an absolute majority. That prompted Frank-Walter Steinmeier,
the Social Democratic opposition parliamentary leader and
foreign minister in Merkel’s first-term government, to say that
the “collapse of the coalition is in full swing.”  Party leaders meeting in Berlin yesterday didn’t discuss
the nomination of former East German dissident Joachim Gauck for
the presidency, Groehe said. On Feb. 19, the FDP joined the
opposition in backing Gauck, leaving Merkel little choice other
than to support a candidate she initially rejected. FDP Chairman
Philipp Roesler told Die Welt newspaper that Merkel’s party had
raised the possibility of ending their alliance over the
disagreement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  