-- Defiant Merkel Sees Euros Minted From Beloved Marks
-- B y   A n g e l a   C u l l e n
-- 2012-03-05T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/merkel-sees-euros-minted-from-marks-in-political-trial-of-german-integrity.html
The vaulted red-brick building
overlooking the River Main on  Frankfurt ’s east side has an
illustrious if checkered past.  Once the biggest free-standing reinforced concrete hall in
the world, the 220-meter-long Gross-markthalle became an emblem
of modernism when it first opened its doors as a wholesale fruit
and vegetable market in 1928, Bloomberg Markets reports in its
April issue.  Then, from 1941 to 1945, it was a deportation point for
more than 10,000 Frankfurt Jews, most of whom met their deaths
in concentration camps. Partially destroyed in World War II
bombing raids, the Grossmarkthalle is being recast for its next
incarnation: the new home of the  European Central Bank , which is
now housed in three separate buildings around the city.  The central bank complex is designed to be what its
architect, Wolf Prix, calls a “three-dimensional icon” of
European unity. And yet its construction coincides with a bout
of angst in Germany over the single currency that the ECB is
charged with safeguarding.  Arguing that her country has benefited from the euro and
stands to gain from its preservation, German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  is stalwart in her defense of it.  “You can trust that I will do everything to strengthen the
euro,” she said in a televised address to the German nation on
New Year’s Day.  Tricky Crosswinds  The Iron Chancellor, as she’s known, has stood her ground
against tricky crosswinds. On Feb. 27, at Merkel’s urging, the
German Bundestag defied a popular backlash and approved the
second Greek bailout in as many years.  Anti-euro sentiment at home has grown as the European
sovereign-debt crisis drags on. Sixty percent of Germans think
the introduction of the euro in 1999 was a bad idea, according
to a poll published on Dec. 4 by the German magazine Focus.  The defeat of Merkel’s party, the Christian Democratic
Union, in a Berlin state election in September capped a year in
which voters punished her coalition government again and again
over its handling of the sovereign-debt crisis.  Next year will be an even bigger test: Elections will
determine whether Merkel, first elected in 2005, will serve a
third term.  Even in  Germany ’s broadly pro-euro business establishment,
there’s some grumbling.  Wolfgang Reitzle, chief executive officer of German
industrial group Linde AG and a former  Bayerische Motoren Werke
AG (BMW)  board member, told Der Spiegel magazine in January that if
member countries such as Italy cannot get their fiscal affairs
in order, Germany should leave the currency union -- though he
added he didn’t think it would come to that.  Deepest Crisis  For their part, Merkel’s euro-zone partners want her to be
as involved as she can be.  They look to Germany, Europe’s largest economy and the
world’s  second-biggest exporter  after  China , as the only country
that can steer the Continent out of what Merkel describes as its
deepest crisis since World War II.  In February, there were signs that Merkel’s handling of the
European financial emergency was finally gaining support at
home.  According to a Feb. 8 Forsa poll, public support for the
 Christian Democratic Union  rose to 38 percent, the highest
rating since before Merkel’s re-election in 2009. Support for
the main opposition party, the  Social Democratic Party , stood at
27 percent.  Boosting Exports  The currency Merkel is protecting has been a boon to German
exports, about 40 percent of which go to euro-zone countries.  A single monetary policy across the euro zone has benefited
German companies, says Geoffrey Pazzanese, co-manager of the
Pittsburgh-based, $583.3 million Federated InterContinental
Fund, which had 22.7 percent of its assets invested in German
firms as of Jan. 31.  The euro has blessed Germany with a weaker, export-boosting
currency, which wouldn’t be the case if the deutsche mark still
existed, he says.  Furthermore, he says, “The euro has provided more
stability within the continental market, where the majority of
German exports and imports occur.”  With a gross domestic product of $3.3 trillion in 2010, the
 German economy  is the fourth largest in the world. It is the
healthiest of  Europe ’s major economies. Germany’s unemployment
rate of 6.8 percent as of Feb. 29 was the lowest among major
European countries. Its inflation rate was 2.3 percent, compared
with Britain’s 3.6 percent.  Anti-Euro Sentiment  In 2011, German exports, buoyed by a relatively weak euro
that made them attractive, breached 1 trillion euros ($1.3
trillion) for the first time, according to the Bundesbank.  Even so, the same poll that reported a majority anti-euro
sentiment also found that 74 percent of Germans considered the
abandoned deutsche mark a more reliable and stable currency than
the euro. Pazzanese says such anti-euro attitudes are
shortsighted.  “Our view is that if there were still deutsche marks, the
German export engine would likely be struggling with problems
that can occur with a strong currency, such as
competitiveness,” he says.  Frankfurt Mayor Petra Roth says German nostalgia for the
mark is misplaced.  “Monetary union is part of Europe’s success,” she said in
an e-mail interview. “If we were to abandon these aspirations,
Europe would be nothing more than a conglomeration of national
states.”  Kohl’s Protege  The events of 1989, when the  Berlin Wall  fell and the
process of German unification was set in motion, put Europe and
the world on a path of no return, she says.  The single currency was never a particularly German
project, says Irwin Collier, a professor of economics at the
Freie Universitaet Berlin. He says Germany had its own,
pragmatic reasons for signing up for it, however.  By supporting what was largely a French undertaking,
Germany got Paris and the European Economic Community, the
precursor to the EU, to back the unification of East and  West
Germany  in 1990.  Then-Chancellor Helmut Kohl sold the single currency to
Germans on that basis, Collier says. He says Kohl’s thinking
was, “We don’t get German unification without caving in on
monetary union.”  All these years later, it’s Kohl’s protege, Merkel -- born
in West Germany, raised in East Germany -- who holds the fate of
the euro in her grasp.  Cajoled by Merkel  Germany is contributing as much as 211 billion euros to the
European Financial Stability Facility, which is empowered to
raise up to 440 billion euros by selling bonds to bail out over-
indebted euro-zone countries.  In the pre-dawn hours of Feb. 21, cajoled by Merkel,
European leaders ground out a deal valued at 130 billion euros
in aid to  Greece , allowing the country to escape an imminent
default that would have convulsed the single currency.  In 2014, if all goes according to plan, the new ECB
headquarters will be inaugurated and take its place along the
Frankfurt skyline.  Looming over the rebuilt Grossmarkthalle, two adjoining
185-meter-high (600-foot-high) glass towers are intended to
portray a united Europe -- not “just a flag, but a really
striking feature,” says Prix, the Austrian architect whose
firm,  Coop Himmelb(l)au , designed the complex.  Banking Dynasties  Frankfurt is well-suited to such symbolism. Like Germany as
a whole, it was born again after the war.  It is Germany’s fifth-largest city, with a population of
about 650,000, and has a long tradition in finance, with roots
in the Bethmann and Rothschild banking dynasties. Commercial
bank towers now rise above what was once the rubble of a bombed
city.  Frankfurt  was also the cradle of a brief democratic
movement that flared in 1848, when the insurgent National
Assembly met in the Paulskirche, or St. Paul’s Church.  Today’s united Europe is an attempt to preserve democracy
and prevent a return to tyranny, Frankfurt Mayor Roth says.  In that sense, she says, “there are parallels between the
Paulskirche and Europe.”  While its designers intended the new ECB complex to convey
harmony, old tensions are never far away.  Financial Turmoil  German lawmakers from the Social Democratic Party and the
 Christian Social Union  as well as Merkel’s party criticized the
ECB for purchasing bonds of euro-area countries and flooding the
market with cash to stem the financial turmoil emanating from
such countries as Greece and  Italy .  The unprecedented intervention by the central bank prompted
ECB chief economist and executive board member  Juergen Stark , a
former Bundesbank board member, to resign in protest at the end
of last year.  Earlier, in February 2011,  Axel Weber , who was a contender
for the job  Mario Draghi  got, resigned as Bundesbank president
after voicing his opposition to the same measures.  Many Germans don’t buy into the ECB as a symbol or even as
an institution, the Freie Universitaet’s Collier says.  “There’s a common feeling that this European project --
all of the institutions of the EU -- is not ‘theirs,’” he says.
“The ECB is just one more institution.”  Joerg Asmussen is one German who doesn’t feel that way.
He’s a former German deputy finance minister who took Stark’s
place on the ECB executive board in January. He says the new ECB
premises are built to last and to endure difficult times.  “And so are we,” he says of the central bank.  Long, Hard Slog  When the guardians of Europe’s single currency move into
their new ECB offices, they could be gazing upon a very
different landscape than the one European leaders envisioned
under the 1992 Maastricht Treaty that created the European Union
and led to the euro.  In a Feb. 7 speech on the future of Europe, Merkel said
that beating the debt crisis would require deep structural
reform. While it would be a long, hard slog, she said, “change
can bring something good.”  Whatever it brings, Germany will get the credit -- or the
blame.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Colby at   lcolby@bloomberg.net  