-- Tesco to Add 20,000 Staff to Halt U.K. Market Share Slide
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n   a n d   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2012-03-05T09:36:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/tesco-to-create-20-000-jobs-in-the-u-k-as-grocer-adds-stores.html
Tesco Plc (TSCO)  said it will add 20,000
U.K. jobs to increase peak-hour staffing and improve service at
its fresh produce, meat and bakery counters as it seeks to halt
a slide in its dominant share of the country’s grocery market.  The recruitment plan is part of a “substantial program”
that will also see Britain’s biggest supermarket chain renovate
hundreds of stores and open new locations over the next two
years, the Cheshunt, England-based company said today.  Tesco’s market share has fallen to a seven-year low of 29.7
percent as competitors win shoppers with a focus on discounts
and innovation. The retailer in January posted sales that missed
estimates and forecast “minimal” profit growth in 2013. Chief
Executive Officer  Philip Clarke  has pledged to offer more fresh-
food and product choices to regain customers.  Investing in both the  workforce  and product quality are
necessary steps in rebuilding Tesco’s reputation, Jonathan Pritchard, an analyst at Oriel Securities in  London , said in a
note today. The measures will be at the expense of profit
margins and Tesco’s sales will continue to underperform those of
competitors over the next two years, Pritchard said as he cut
his  recommendation  on the stock to “reduce” from “hold.”  “Management will ultimately get it right, but only the
longest-term investors should be involved here for now,” said
Pritchard, who lowered his pretax profit  estimate  for fiscal
2013 by 6.3 percent to 3.75 billion pounds ($5.9 billion). He
also cut estimates for competitors  J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY)  and William
Morrison Supermarkets Plc, citing Tesco’s “likely aggression.”  Young Unemployed  Tesco  fell  as much as 1 percent in London trading and was
down 0.7 percent at 316.05 pence as of 9:22 a.m.  The recruitment drive will target unemployed young people,
said  Richard Brasher , Tesco’s U.K. chief executive officer.  Tesco is the U.K.’s largest private employer with more than
290,000 employees, including 70,000 under the age of 25, the
company said. Britain’s  unemployment  rate was 8.4 percent in
December, equal to the previous month and the highest since
January 1996, according to the  Office for National Statistics .  “In unprecedented economic conditions like these, major
businesses have a big responsibility to step forward, invest and
create jobs,” Brasher said in the statement.  Tesco isn’t alone in targeting jobs at young people.
 McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the world’s biggest restaurant chain, plans to
create at least 2,500 jobs in the U.K. this year, with more than
half of the new positions for people under the age of 25.  ‘Massive Confidence Boost’  Asda, the U.K.’s second-largest supermarket chain, and
 Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , the world’s largest coffee-shop operator, have
both promised to add 5,000 jobs this year as they open more
grocery outlets and drive-through coffee stores, respectively.  Tesco’s initiative is “a massive confidence boost for the
U.K. economy,” Prime Minister  David Cameron  said. “Their
commitment to creating jobs and opportunities for young people
at what is a difficult time for the economy is fantastic news.”  Tesco said last month it would guarantee jobs for young
people who satisfactorily complete a four-week placement program
after protesters criticized the retailer for offering unpaid
work experience through a government program.  Execution Noble analyst Caroline Gulliver estimates the
staff investment will cost Tesco about 260 million pounds. Given
her expectation that the grocer will spend about 400 million
pounds overall, there is a still a “material part’ of the
budget remaining which could be used to lower prices, she said.  “At the core of this investment is our determination to
deliver the best shopping experience for our customers, bar
none,” Brasher said in the statement. “We will invest in more
staff on the sales floor at busy times, greater expertise and
help in the crucial areas of fresh food, and enhanced quality
and service across our stores at all times.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mike Harrison  at 
 mharrison5@bloomberg.net  