-- Silver Lining in N.Y. Mets Court Ruling Is Team May Pay Just $30 Million
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-03-06T18:11:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/mets-owners-must-face-trial-over-386-million-madoff-lawsuit-judge-rules.html
The  New York Mets  may have to pay
just $30 million following a court ruling against them, a
fraction of the $386 million sought by the trustee representing
victims of  Bernard Madoff ’s Ponzi scheme from the team and
related defendants.  Fred Wilpon , Saul Katz and other defendants must give up as
much as $83 million in fictitious profits from Bernard Madoff’s
Ponzi scheme and face a trial over whether they acted in bad
faith, a decision that could cost them $303 million more, U.S.
District Judge Jed Rakoff ruled.  However, the two main entities that own and operate the
baseball team are liable for no more than $30 million of the $83
million, although Wilpon and Katz personally might owe as much
as another $11 million, according to court documents. The fraud
cost investors an estimated $20 billion in principal, according
to  Irving Picard , the trustee liquidating Madoff’s investment
firm.  “The court remains skeptical that the trustee can
ultimately rebut the defendants’ showing of good faith, let
alone impute bad faith to all the defendants,” Rakoff said in
his ruling in U.S. District Court in Manhattan. “The principal
issue remaining for trial is whether the defendants acted in
good faith when they invested in Madoff securities in the two
years prior to bankruptcy or whether, by contrast, they wilfully
blinded themselves to Madoff’s Ponzi scheme.”  March 19 Trial  Picard must prove to a jury that the Mets owners and other
defendants were “wilfully blind” to Madoff’s Ponzi scheme to
recover the $303 million. The trial is set to start March 19 in
 Manhattan .  Rakoff said he will decide separately how much of the $83
million must be given up, and by whom. The sum represents
fictitious profit from the Ponzi scheme in the two years before
the con man’s 2008 arrest. Picard alleges the money was stolen
from other investors who lost money in the fraud.  The defendants include partnerships, trusts and related
entities of Wilpon, Katz or their relatives. Sterling Mets LP,
the partnership most closely identified with the team, is liable
for as much as $1.7 million in fictitious profits from the two
years before Madoff’s arrest, according to Picard’s filing.  “I’m sure the Wilpons would have liked to win today and
had the suit thrown out, but when you look at the numbers thrown
around, this wasn’t a billion-dollar suit, so it could have been
much worse,” said Robert Boland, chairman of the sports
management program at  New York University ’s Robert Preston Tisch
Center. “The problem is that the trial comes as the Wilpons
take hits on their personal finances, nest egg and franchise
simultaneously.”  Payroll Cut  The Mets owners, after losing $500 million in the Ponzi
scheme, have cut the team’s basic payroll to about $90 million
this season, from $140 million. They also have sold seven
minority ownership stakes in the team, Wilpon said last month.
His target is to sell a total of 10 shares valued at $20
million, each representing about 4 percent of the franchise.  Rakoff ruled just hours before the Mets played the
 Washington Nationals  in  Port St. Lucie ,  Florida , in their first
spring training game before the regular season starts in April.
Rakoff last year threw out most of Picard’s $1 billion lawsuit
against the owners, saying Picard could pursue only $386 million
at trial.  In his suit, Picard tried to show the Mets owners blinded
themselves to Madoff’s fraud because it benefited their
businesses, ranging from the team to real estate. Wilpon and
Katz countered by saying they trusted their  money manager , who
they said had a solid reputation. Both sides presented
conclusions disguised as facts that might not be admissible at
trial, Rakoff said.  Nothing But Bombast  “Conclusions are no substitute for facts, and too much of
what the parties characterized as bombshells proved to be
nothing but bombast,” he said in the ruling.  If Picard doesn’t present evidence of wilful blindness at
trial, the Mets owners could ask Rakoff again to dismiss the
remaining suit.  “We are preparing for trial,” the Mets owners said in an
e-mailed statement. “We look forward to demonstrating that we
were not wilfully blind to the Madoff fraud.”  Picard is “in the process of reviewing the decision,” his
spokeswoman, Amanda Remus, said in an e-mail.  The issues at trial will be whether Picard can take back
principal the defendants withdrew from Madoff’s firm over two
years or transferred to others, and what the status of their
claims against the Madoff estate should be, Rakoff said.  Jury View  David Sheehan , a lawyer for Picard, told Rakoff last month
that he believed a jury would see the Mets owners as having been
wilfully blind.  Sterling Mets LP, which runs the team that plays at the
Citi Field stadium in Queens,  New York , took $51 million out of
Queens Ballpark Co. in 2010, down from about $100 million in
2009, excluding non-recurring amounts, according to the
stadium’s latest published annual results, available on the
Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board website. Financial results
for the full year 2011 aren’t published yet.  Since 2009, annual attendance at the stadium has dropped 27
percent, to 2.29 million last year, as the team lost more games
than it won, according to Standard & Poor’s analyst Jodi Hecht.  Revenue from the stadium fell 12 percent through November,
she said in a December report. Stadium managers’ projections of
a rebound in attendance in 2012 to 2.5 million appear
“aggressive,” she said.  Madoff, 73, pleaded guilty in 2009 to orchestrating what
prosecutors called the biggest  Ponzi scheme  in history, and is
serving a 150-year sentence in a federal prison in  North
Carolina . Picard and his  law firm ,  Baker & Hostetler LLP (1155L) , have
charged about $273 million in fees for liquidating the Madoff
firm since it collapsed in December 2008.  The case is Picard v. Katz, 11-cv-03605, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net 
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  