-- EU Considers Quotas as Firms Fail to Add Female Corporate Board Members
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-03-05T13:45:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/eu-disappointed-as-companies-fail-to-add-female-board-members.html
The European Union’s justice chief
 Viviane Reding  is weighing possible quotas to promote more women
to board level after companies made “limited progress” on
redressing the gender imbalance.  Some 13.7 percent of board seats in the EU belong to women
after a 1.9 percentage point increase between October 2010 and
January 2012, the European Commission said in a  report  today.
Reding last year asked businesses to appoint more women to
company boards. LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA is  among
only 24 companies  that signed  Reding’s pledge  to increase female
board members to 30 percent by 2015 and 40 percent by 2020.  “I am not a great fan of quotas,” Reding said in a
statement. “However, I like the results they bring.” She
said that the lack of women “in top jobs in the business world
harms  Europe ’s competitiveness and hampers economic growth.”  The commission will now consider “possible action at
EU level, including legislative measures,” Reding said. She’s
asking businesses and other groups to  comment  on what kind of
measures the EU should take to tackle the lack of gender
diversity in boardrooms. Such consultations typically precede
the drafting of legislation by the Brussels-based commission.  Spain  has a target for 40 percent of female representation
on large company boards by 2015, and  France  passed a law last
year to impose a 20 percent quota by 2014 and 40 percent by 2017
for companies with at least 500 employees and annual sales of 50
million euros ($66 million).  Norway , which is not part of the
EU, in 2003 set a quota for at least 40 percent of corporate
board seats to be filled by women.  ‘Patronizing’ Quotas  “Quotas actually undermine the principle of equality and
are patronizing to women,” said Helena Morrissey, the chief
executive officer of Newton Investment Management, who founded
the  30 Percent Club  to press companies to voluntarily employ
that many female directors.  “Even those countries with quotas are still struggling
with genuine equality and there’s evidence that  shareholder
value  can be destroyed if quotas are imposed,” Morrissey said
in an e-mailed statement. “Directors need to be there on
merit.”  European companies don’t see “clear evidence of the direct
effect of quotas in raising the number of women at every level
of responsibility,” said the BusinessEurope employers’
federation in a statement. “Quotas interfere with private
ownership and shareholders’ rights to make decisions.”  U.K. Threat  British companies may face quotas unless they promote more
women to board level, U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said
last month, arguing that businesses are “failing” the economy
by not having enough females in senior positions.  U.S. companies are lagging gains in some European countries
where female board membership is expanding to meet regulatory
mandates and corporate governance codes. Representation of women
on boards of  Standard & Poor’s 500 (SPX)  companies declined to 16
percent in 2011 from 16.6 percent in 2010, according to the
Bloomberg Rankings annual analysis last year, which gathered
data from public company information.  In Norway, 37.9 percent of directors at the country’s
largest companies are women. They represent 11.7 percent of
directors among 4,875 board seats at 334 of the biggest  European
companies (SXXP) , an increase of 21 percent since 2008, according to an
October 2010 study from the European Professional Women’s
Network conducted with Russell Reynolds Associates, a
headhunting company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 