-- EU’s Almunia ‘Surprised’ Austria Didn’t Warn on Volksbank Nationalization
-- B y   J o s h   B a s s e t t   a n d   S i b e l   A k b a y
-- 2012-03-05T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/eu-surprised-austria-didn-t-warn-on-volksbanken-almunia-says.html
The European Commission was
“surprised” Austria didn’t warn it about plans to bail out
 Oesterreichische Volksbanken AG (VBPS) , according to  Joaquin Almunia ,
the region’s commissioner responsible for approving state aid.  “We have been dealing with this bank for quite some time
now,” Almunia said in an interview with Bloomberg HT
television in Istanbul. “We were a little bit surprised by 
some new decision that had not been communicated to us before” 
even though the EU is already probing the legality of the 
state aid Volksbanken has already received.  Austria is due to become Volksbanken’s second-biggest
shareholder after it agreed to write off most of its previous
aid and to inject fresh funds to shore up capital diminished by
losses at the nation’s fourth-biggest lender. The additional aid
came less than three months after the  EU said it had doubts  that
Volksbanken’s bailout three years ago complied with EU law.  The EU opened a probe on Dec. 9 into  Austria ’s state aid to
Volksbanken in 2009, when it injected 1 billion euros ($1.32
billion) into the bank. That capital boost, which followed the
bailout in 2008 of its Kommunalkredit Austria unit, may violate
European state-aid rules, the EU said in a statement at the
time. It also demanded a new restructuring plan for the bank.  “Serious doubts remain” on whether the bank will be
viable in the long term, the European Commission, the EU’s
executive arm, said in its letter dated Dec. 9 and  published in
the region’s Official Journal Feb. 17 . It also questioned
whether “sufficient burden-sharing is achieved” between the
bank, its shareholders and the government, and whether
“adequate measures are taken to limit distortions of
competition.”  ‘Sound’ Lender  Austria told the EU that Volksbanken was a “sound” bank
in 2009, the year for which the lender reported a net loss of
1.1 billion euros, according to the EU letter. That label means
a bank receiving state aid doesn’t have to provide a wide-
ranging restructuring plan. The Alpine country had said
previously that Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG was a
sound bank in 2008, a year before it was nationalized to prevent
it from collapsing under 1.6 billion euros of losses.  The EU rejected the classification for Volksbanken and said
a 2010 restructuring plan is insufficient and must be amended.  Under the new bailout agreement reached last week, Austria
will get a stake of as much as 49 percent and an option for a
majority after it injects 250 million euros by purchasing
shares. Volksbanken’s shareholders and the state’s previous aid
will be reduced by 70 percent to wipe out accumulated losses.  Volksbanken’s majority owner, a group of 62 regional
cooperative lenders, will also have to put in at least 230
million euros of fresh capital to keep its stake above 50
percent. Other shareholders including  DZ Bank  and  Munich Re  will
have their stakes diluted.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josh Bassett in Istanbul at 
 jbassett2@bloomberg.net ;
Sibel Akbay in Istanbul at 
 sakbay@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  