-- EU’s Altafaj Says Verdict on Spain Budget Needs ‘Hard Figures’
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-03-05T13:43:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/eu-s-altafaj-says-verdict-on-spain-budget-needs-hard-figures-.html
European Union spokesman Amadeu Altafaj comments about Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s
announcement on March 2 that Spain’s budget deficit this year
would be 5.8 percent of gross domestic product instead of the
4.4 percent target agreed previously with the EU.  Altafaj spoke to reporters today in Brussels at the
European Commission, the EU’s regulatory arm. The commission
will review the Spanish government’s latest fiscal plans, which
follow a missed deficit goal in 2011. The commission has the
right to seek penalties against Spain for failing to narrow the
spending gap enough.  “We first need the full picture of Spanish serious fiscal
slippage last year. We need the full picture about the reasons
for that serious deviation. And we need the full picture as far
as the preparations of the budget for 2012 is concerned, which
should happen during the month of March.”  “Then the deficit figures have to be validated and
published by Eurostat and that will happen in April. And then we
will assess the situation based on hard figures, hard facts and
not speculation.”  “Let’s shed all the light on what happened in  Spain  in
2011 because it’s a serious deviation.”  “We need to know the origin of this deviation, the nature
of this deviation. Is it structural? Is it temporary? What are
the measures to be contemplated in the framework of the 2012
budget to remedy this situation?”  “Closer coordination of economic policy is at the heart of
the reinforcement of the economic governance” of the 17-nation
euro area.  Altafaj also read out parts of the EU summit conclusions on
March 2 that say “all  member states  should continue to respect
their commitments according to the rules” and those nations
under market pressure should meet “agreed budgetary targets and
stand ready to pursue further consolidation measures if
needed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  