-- EU to Decide on Future of Google Antitrust Probe Next Month
-- B y   J o s h   B a s s e t t   a n d   S i b e l   A k b a y
-- 2012-03-05T11:35:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/eu-to-decide-on-future-of-google-antitrust-probe-next-month.html
European Union regulators must
decide next month on the future of their antitrust probe into
 Google Inc. (GOOG) , the region’s competition commissioner said.  Joaquin Almunia  said investigators still must define their
objections and clarify concerns over the world’s largest search
engine. Last year he said that the probe focused on whether the
company is a gate keeper to the Internet that can influence
users’ behavior.  “Next month I will have to decide how to continue this
investigation,” Almunia said in an interview with Bloomberg HT
television. “First we have to define our objections. We need to
clarify” the concerns “after a year-and-a-half of complex
investigation. And we will communicate these to Google and we’ll
see what happens.”  Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , is under
growing pressure from global antitrust agencies probing whether
the company is thwarting competition in the market for Web
searches. While  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and partner  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  have
about a quarter of the U.S. Web-search market, Google has almost
95 percent of the traffic in  Europe , Microsoft said in a blog
post last year, citing data from regulators.  The EU is investigating claims Google discriminated against
other services in its search results and stopped some websites
from accepting rival ads. Microsoft and shopping-comparison site
Foundem are among companies that asked for a review of Google’s
actions.  Investigators should report to Almunia at the end of March
or the beginning of April on the status of the “very difficult
and complex investigation,” he said.  Al Verney, a spokesman for Google in Brussels, said the
company continues “to work closely and cooperatively with the
European commission to explain how our business works.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josh Bassett in Istanbul at 
 jbassett2@bloomberg.net ;
Sibel Akbay in Istanbul at 
 sakbay@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  