-- Europe’s Junk Borrowers Tap U.S. at Record Pace
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z   a n d   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 2012-03-05T16:37:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/europe-s-neediest-borrowers-seek-u-s-funds-at-record-pace-credit-markets.html
European high-yield companies are
tapping the U.S. bond market at a record pace as investors
funnel unprecedented amounts of cash into dollar-denominated
junk-debt funds and the sovereign crisis restricts bank lending
in the region.  Issuers led by  Germany ’s  Fresenius Medical Care AG (FME)  have
sold $8.8 billion of the debt in dollars this year, following
$16.4 billion in all of 2011, according to Morgan Stanley. The
portion of European speculative-grade offerings sold in dollars
has soared to 44 percent this year, up from 31 percent in 2011
and double the rate in 2010.  Borrowers in Europe, where politicians are struggling to
contain the fiscal contagion that led to the bailouts of  Greece ,
 Portugal  and Ireland, are seeking lower financing costs by
marketing to investors in the U.S. Relative yields on European
junk-rated debt average 222 basis points more than on similarly
rated U.S. bonds, compared with 77 in 2011, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data show.  “It stands to reason if you are a European issuer, you are
going to look opportunistically to access the most favorable
market,” William Hughes, the head of North American leveraged
syndicate at Citigroup Inc., said in a telephone interview.
“For many issuers that decision has led them to dollar
denominated high-yield bonds and leveraged loans.”  ‘Highly Variable’  Schaeffler AG’s two-part bond offering on Feb. 2 was split
between euro and dollar portions, both maturing in five years
with coupons of 7.75 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. While the German rolling bearings manufacturer’s 800
million euro slice yields 6.5 percent, its $600 million dollar
piece yields 6.1 percent.  Dollar issuance from European high-yield companies may
reach $30 billion this year, with most of the proceeds used to
repay existing debt, Barclays Capital analysts Sherif Hamid,
Gautam Kakodkar and Darpan Harar wrote in a report dated March
2. The total volume is “highly variable,” depending in part on
continued investor demand, they wrote.  Elsewhere in credit markets, a benchmark gauge of U.S.
company credit risk rose with the Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against
losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, climbing 1.6 basis
points to a mid-price of 95.5 basis points at 11:32 a.m. in  New
York , according to Markit Group Ltd.  GE Most Active  The index, which typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves, has climbed from 92.8 on
March 1, which was the lowest on a closing basis since July 22.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  Bonds of Fairfield, Connecticut-based General Electric Co.
are the most actively traded U.S. corporate securities by
dealers today, with 42 trades of $1 million or more as of 11:35
a.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of debt
market stress, rose 1 basis point to 25.69 basis points as of
11:32 a.m. in New York. The gauge, which widens when investors
seek the perceived safety of  government securities  and narrows
when they favor assets such as corporate bonds, has climbed from
24.69 on March 2, the lowest since Aug. 11.  Investors have poured $13.5 billion into U.S. junk-bond
funds this year, compared with $15.6 billion for all of 2011,
JPMorgan researchers led by  Peter Acciavatti  wrote in a March 1
report. Nine of the 10 largest weekly inflows on record into
American speculative-grade mutual funds have occurred since
October, according to the report, which cites data from Lipper.  Fresenius Bonds  Investors are demanding 733 basis points more than
government debt to own European junk notes, compared with 597
basis points for U.S. speculative-grade notes, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data show.  The gap between the relative yields was 310 basis points at
the beginning of the year. As recently as June, spreads on
European  junk bonds  were tighter than those in the U.S.  Fresenius, the world’s biggest provider of  kidney dialysis ,
sold $1.5 billion of bonds in dollars on Jan. 17 consisting of
$800 million of 5.625 percent notes due July 2019 and $700
million of 5.875 percent debt maturing in January 2022,
Bloomberg data show. The company is rated Ba1 by Moody’s and BB+
at S&P, both one level below investment grade.  Proceeds may be used to help fund the  Bad Homburg , Germany-
based company’s purchase of Liberty Dialysis Holdings Inc. and
repay debt, according to a person with knowledge of the sale,
who declined to be identified citing lack of authorization to
speak publicly.  Greece Restructuring  “European companies have been able to borrow in dollars at
lower yields than they can borrow in euros,” Andrew Sheets,
head of European credit strategy at Morgan Stanley in  London ,
said in a telephone interview. “Strong inflows into U.S. high
yield have created a healthy appetite for new bond supply.”  Yields in the U.S. average 7.53 percent, compared with 8.77
percent in  Europe . The gap in yields, at 1.2 percentage points,
is up from 0.37 percentage point a year ago, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes show.  European borrowers raised more than $6 billion of loans in
the U.S. this year through Feb. 15, compared with $1.33 billion
in the same period of 2011, Bloomberg data show.  Greece’s debt restructuring is prompting European banks to
curtail lending as political leaders accelerate payments to the
planned permanent bailout fund. Lending to non-financial
borrowers fell 1 percent in Ireland and 0.7 percent in  Spain 
compared with the previous month, according to a Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc report dated Feb. 27.  ‘Stagnant’ Lending  “Lending activity in the periphery will remain stagnant at
best, in our view, as banks continue to struggle with
deleveraging, recapitalizations and capital flight risk,” RBS
analysts led by Alberto Gallo in London wrote.  The cost of credit-default swaps on Greek government debt
on March 2 signaled a 99 percent chance the nation will default
within five years, according to CMA. Swaps were quoted at $7.6
million in advance and $100,000 annually to insure $10 million
of debt by BNP Paribas SA and CMA.  “We do expect a bias for certain companies, particularly
those that have certain exposures in the U.S., to continue to
take advantage of what is still a more liquid financing
market,” said Michael Moravec, European head of high-yield
 capital markets  at  Barclays Capital  in London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net ;
Kristen Haunss in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 