-- European Services Output Declines More Than Initially Estimated: Economy
-- B y   P a t r i c k   H e n r y
-- 2012-03-05T11:52:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/european-economy-index-falls-more-than-first-estimated-after-contraction.html
Euro-area  services output  shrank
more than estimated in February, led by Italy and  Spain , as the
region’s economy struggled to rebound from a contraction in the
fourth quarter.  An index based on a survey of purchasing managers in the
services industry dropped to 48.8 from 50.4 in January, London-
based  Markit Economics  said on its website today. That’s below
an initial figure of 49.4 published on Feb. 22. A reading below
50 indicates contraction.  Budget cuts by governments may curb the pace of  Europe ’s
recovery as countries across the region battle the sovereign-
debt crisis. The euro area’s economic woes have crimped the
expansion of export-driven economies in Asia, where  China  pared
its economic growth target today to 7.5 percent from an 8
percent goal in place since 2005.  Howard Archer , chief European economist at IHS Global
Insight in London, said today’s report suggests that the euro-
area economy will shrink in the first quarter, sending the
region into recession after a 0.3 percent contraction in the
fourth quarter.  “The region is still facing major headwinds, notably
including increased fiscal tightening in many countries and
markedly rising unemployment,” he said. The debt crisis is
“far from resolved despite the recent bailout deal for
Greece,” while high  oil prices  are “an increasing concern for
businesses’ margins and consumers’ purchasing power.”  Chinese Target  The euro declined to as low as $1.3160 after the report
before rebounding. It traded at $1.3189 as of 11:17 a.m. in
 London , up less than 0.1 percent on the day. The  Stoxx Europe
600 Index (SXXP)  retreated 0.7 percent and the MSCI Asia Pacific Index
declined 0.9 percent.  China’s growth-target cut, announced by Premier Wen Jiabao
in his state-of-the-nation speech in Beijing, signals that the
country’s leaders are determined to reduce reliance on exports
and capital spending in favor of consumption.  “The growth target indicates the lowest level that the
government is comfortable with and is also a signal to local
officials that they shouldn’t solely focus on the rate of
expansion,” said  Michael Buchanan , chief Asia-Pacific economist
at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in  Hong Kong . “China’s trend growth
rate is coming down but it’s still higher than this, more like
around 9 percent.”  Services Slowdown  Elsewhere in  Asia ,  India ’s services industries expanded at
a slower pace in February, according to an index released today
by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit. U.K.  services growth  also
cooled last month, according to a separate report. A gauge of
activity fell to 53.8 from 56. The median forecast of 29
economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a reading of 55.  In the U.S., the Institute for Supply Management may say
 service industries  grew at a slower pace in February, while a
Commerce Department report may show orders to U.S. factories
fell in January.  The European Union, attempting to turn the page on the two-
year-old debt crisis, faces a first test this week as  Greece ’s
private creditors decide whether to sign off on a 106 billion-
euro ($140 billion) debt swap.  The success of the biggest sovereign-debt restructuring in
history, which was confirmed on the eve of last week’s EU
summit, depends on how many investors agree to the writedown by
a March 8 deadline. Euro-area finance ministers will hold a
teleconference on March 9 to review the deal’s outcome.  ‘Close Call’  Today’s euro-area services figure dragged down Markit’s
 composite index  of the services and manufacturing industries to
49.3 from 50.4 in January, below an initial figure of 49.7. The
 manufacturing gauge  came in at 49, in line with the estimate.  “It remains a close call” whether the euro-area economy
will shrink in the current quarter, sending the region into
recession, said  Chris Williamson , Markit’s chief economist. “At
this stage, our best estimate is that the region’s GDP will have
contracted by 0.1 percent in the first three months.”  The 17-nation euro economy may shrink 0.3 percent this
year, driven by a contraction of 1.3 percent in  Italy  and 1
percent in Spain, the European Commission said on Feb. 23.
 Germany ’s economy, Europe’s largest, will expand 0.6 percent,
according to the commission. The gauge of services in Germany
slipped to 52.8 last month from 53.7 in January.  Williamson said the “steep declines” indicated by
services surveys for Italy and Spain suggest that their return
to growth “still looks to be a long way off.” The Purchasing
Managers’ Index for Spanish services dropped to 41.9 in February
from 46.1 a month earlier, while the gauge for Italy declined to
44.1 from 44.8.  “Persistent weakness in countries such as Italy and Spain
will also subdue any growth in other euro-area countries which
traditionally depend on trade within the region, constraining
recoveries in Germany,  France  and other northern euro nations,”
Williamson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Henry in Brussels at 
 phenry8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  