-- Yen Rises as China Lowers Growth Goal, Stoking Refuge Demand; Aussie Falls
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-03-05T22:14:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/euro-touches-two-week-low-before-data-on-european-retail-sales-ism-report.html
The yen rallied versus all of its
most-traded counterparts after  China  said it will lower its
target for economic growth, boosting demand for the relative
safety of Japan’s currency.  Australia’s dollar dropped from almost a nine-month high
against yen as China lowered its economic growth target to 7.5
percent and loosened its currency controls. The euro gained
against most major currencies as Greece said it expected private
creditors to accept its debt-swap terms because it constitutes
“the best offer.”  “Global growth concerns are a little higher, given the
scaling back of growth expectations in China, as well as around
 Europe ,” said  Aroop Chatterjee , a currency strategist at
Barclays Capital Inc. in New York. “In that environment, the
dollar and the yen typically see safe haven demand.”  The yen strengthened 0.3 percent to 81.56 per dollar at 5
p.m. in New York, after touching 81.87, matching the weakest
since May.   Japan ’s currency rose 0.2 percent to 107.79 per
euro. The 17-nation currency rose 0.1 percent to $1.3217.  Xinhua News Agency cited People’s Bank of China Governor
Zhou Xiaochuan saying the nation may “appropriately” widen the
currency’s trading band today. The reference rate was at 6.3069
per dollar and the yuan is allowed to trade 0.5 percent on
either side of that.  Yuan Trade  The Chinese yuan, also called the renminbi or RMB, has
appreciated 32 percent since July 2005 when the government
abandoned a peg to the  U.S. dollar . Implied volatility on one-
month options for the yuan versus the dollar rose nine basis
points, the most since December, to 1.87 percent in  New York 
trading.  China pared the nation’s economic growth target from an 8
percent goal in place since 2005, a signal that leaders are
determined to cut reliance on exports and capital spending in
favor of consumption.  Officials will aim for inflation of about 4 percent this
year, unchanged from the 2011 goal, according to Premier Wen
Jiabao’s state-of-the-nation speech, delivered at the annual
meeting of the National People’s Congress in Beijing.  “The fear is that 7.5 percent growth for China would
change the outlook for commodities and global growth and would
weigh on growth-sensitive currencies like Aussie and  Canada ,”
said  Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at Bank of Nova
Scotia in Toronto. “Traditionally we’ve seen China come in
above their growth expectations. Last year it was 8 percent and
they came in at 9.5 percent.”  Aussie, Kiwi  The Australian dollar fell 0.9 percent to 87.03 yen after
touching 88.01 yen on March 2, the highest level since May. The
Aussie slid 0.6 percent to $1.0671. The  New Zealand dollar  was
the biggest loser versus the yen among the most-traded
currencies, falling 1.3 percent to 66.94 yen. The so-called kiwi
decreased 1 percent to 82.07 U.S. cents.  Canada’s dollar fell 0.5 percent to 99.46 U.S. cents per
dollar.  The Reserve Bank of  Australia  meets tomorrow, before March
8 policy meetings for the Bank of Canada, the  European Central
Bank  and The Bank of England.  The Dollar Index 0.1 percent weaker after the Institute for
Supply Management’s nonmanufacturing  index  for the U.S. was at
57.3 in February, the highest in a year. The gauge, which
Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses to track the greenback
against the currencies of six major U.S. trading partners, was
at 79.356 after rising as much as 0.2 percent.  Fed View  “If the data continue to improve, however gradually, the
markets should begin preparing themselves for the good Dr. Fed
to wean them from their dependency rather than administer
further dosage,” Federal  Reserve Bank  of Dallas President
Richard Fisher said today in the text of a speech in Dallas.
Financial markets “have become hooked on the monetary morphine
we provided” after the 2008 financial crisis, he said.  The dollar has strengthened 2.8 percent in the past six
months, while the euro lost 3.1 percent, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10 developed-market
currencies. The yen dropped 4.2 percent.  The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SPA)  fell 0.4 percent and the
MSCI World Index of stocks slipped 0.5 percent.  The euro rose against the dollar after European retail
sales unexpectedly increased in January after four months of
declines as growth in  France  helped to outweigh a drop in
 Germany .  Greek Talks  European Union leaders will hold a teleconference on March
9 to review the outcome of the 106 billion-euro ($140 billion)
debt swap with  Greece ’s private creditors. Success depends on
how many investors agree to the writedown by March 8 and the
Greek government has set a 75 percent participation rate as a
threshold for proceeding with the transaction.  “This is the best offer,” Venizelos said in a Bloomberg
Television interview with Nicole Itano in  Athens  today. “This
is the best offer because this is the only one, the only
existing offer.”  Futures traders  pared net bets to the least since December
that the euro will weaken against the dollar. Wagers the shared
currency will fall against the greenback versus those that will
rise equaled 109,674 in the week ended Feb. 28, figures from the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  Hedge funds  and other large speculators are betting for the
first time since May that the yen will fall against the dollar.
Net-shorts for the yen were 1,203, compared with net longs of
17,257 a week earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  