-- Stocks Drop in Europe as China Cuts Forecast for Growth; Rio Tinto Falls
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-03-05T16:59:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/european-stock-futures-retreat-as-china-cuts-forecast-for-economic-growth.html
European (SXXP)  stocks dropped, snapping
two days of gains, as China cut its forecast for economic growth
this year and data showed manufacturing and services in the euro
area shrank more than estimated.  Rio Tinto Group led mining shares lower as copper slid.
 Salzgitter AG (SZG)  sank 5.4 percent amid uncertainty over the
steelmaker’s outlook.  BP Plc (BP/)  advanced 1.6 percent after reaching
a $7.8 billion settlement with businesses and individuals harmed
by the Gulf of Mexico  oil spill  in 2010.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index retreated 0.6 percent to 265.56
at the close, paring last week’s 0.9 percent advance. The
benchmark measure earlier slid as much as 1 percent. The Stoxx
600 has  rallied 8.6 percent  this year as U.S. economic reports
beat estimates and investors speculated that policy makers will
contain the euro region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  “The market is really taking more of a pause for breath
after the strong rally that we have seen,” said  Edmund Shing ,
an equity strategist at  Barclays Capital  in London. “People are
actually a little bit less pessimistic on the economic front
than late last year, but clearly we would like to see more
positive macro data going forward. We don’t expect growth in
Europe this year.”  China  reduced its growth target to 7.5 percent this year,
the lowest goal since 2004, according to a transcript of Premier
Wen Jiabao’s address to the National People’s Congress. The
government will also aim for inflation of about 4 percent this
year, unchanged from its goal in 2011.  European Services, Manufacturing  Stocks extended declines after euro-area services and
manufacturing output shrank in February more than  economists had
estimated  as the region’s economy struggled to rebound from a
contraction in the fourth quarter of last year.  A  euro-area composite index  based on a survey of purchasing
managers in both industries dropped to 49.3 from 50.4 in
January, London-based Markit Economics said today. That was
below an initial figure of 49.7 published on Feb. 22. A reading
of less than 50 means the measure contracted.  In the U.S, the Institute for Supply Management’s index of
 non-manufacturing industries , which accounts for almost 90
percent of the  U.S. economy , climbed to 57.3 in February from
56.8 in January.  National benchmark indexes declined in every western-
 European (SXXP)  market except Switzerland and Iceland today. France’s
 CAC 40 Index (CAC)  slipped 0.4 percent, while the U.K.’s FTSE 100
Index fell 0.6 percent. Germany’s  DAX Index (DAX)  lost 0.8 percent.  Greece’s Debt Swap  Investors are waiting to see how many of Greece’s private
creditors agree to write down their sovereign-debt holdings by
the euro area’s March 8 deadline. If the proposal wins their
support, Greece will reduce its borrowings by 106 billion euros
($140 billion), lowering its debt to 120.5 percent of gross
domestic product by 2020.  Greece’s government has set a 75 percent participation rate
as the threshold for proceeding with the transaction, in which
investors will forgive 53.5 percent of their principal and
exchange their remaining holdings for new Greek  government bonds 
and notes from the  European Financial Stability Facility .  Germany’s DSW investor protection group today advised
private-sector bondholders to reject the Greek bond offer.  Rio Tinto  dropped 3.9 percent to 3,422 pence, BHP Billiton
Ltd. fell 2.9 percent to 1,971 pence and Vedanta Resources Plc
slid 3.7 percent to 1,400 pence. Copper declined for a second
day in London after China cut its target for economic growth.  Rio Tinto also declined as the  world’s third-largest mining
company  said it will review its Bell Bay aluminum smelter in
Australia because of rising costs and falling prices for the
lightweight metal.  Salzgitter, Kloeckner Drop  Salzgitter sank 5.4 percent to 42.88 euros after the German
steelmaker said it was “impossible” to provide an earnings
forecast because the euro area’s sovereign-debt crisis remains a
major risk.  “Delivering a repeat of the previous year’s results will
be challenging,” the company said today. “The start to the new
year appears to be marked by dampening effects on the course of
business in the steel and tubes divisions.”  Kloeckner & Co SE (KCO) ,  Europe’s largest independent steel
trader , dropped 3.3 percent to 11.23 euros.  Amlin Plc slid 4.4 percent to 336 pence after the biggest
Lloyd’s of London insurer by market value posted a wider-than-
estimated full-year loss of 149.9 million pounds ($238 million)
after the worst year for natural catastrophes on record.
Analysts had predicted a loss of 146 million pounds.  Weir Group Plc (WEIR)  retreated 4.7 percent to 1,939 pence as
Citigroup Inc. downgraded the world’s biggest maker of pumps for
the  mining industry  to “sell” from “neutral.”  BP, Misys Advance  BP climbed 1.6 percent to 504.6 pence, limiting the  Stoxx
600 (SXXP) ’s slide, after Europe’s second-largest oil producer reached
a deal with private plaintiffs -- the businesses and individuals
harmed by the 2010 oil spill.  The sum was lower than the $14 billion that had been
discussed, according to people familiar with the talks. The
settlement doesn’t resolve federal and state government claims
for environmental damage.  Misys Plc (MSY)  surged 6 percent to 335 pence after CVC Capital
Partners Ltd. and ValueAct Capital,  Misys’s largest shareholder ,
said they are working on a joint cash offer for the  software
company .  The company said it has formed an independent committee of
board directors to consider the offers and remains in talks with
Temenos Group AG and Vista Equity Partners. Temenos slipped 3.9
percent to 17.1 Swiss francs.  Elekta AB (EKTAB)  surged 8.7 percent to 332.90 kronor for the
biggest advance on the  Stoxx 600 (SXXP) . The world’s second-largest
maker of radiation-surgery equipment said its order intake
jumped 45 percent in the three months to Jan. 31 after it
acquired Nucletron NV, a company that uses radiation to fight
cancer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  