-- Euro Declines to a Two-Week Low as Region’s Economy Shrinks; Aussie Falls
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-03-06T22:05:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/euro-remains-lower-against-yen-before-europe-gdp-report-u-s-jobs-data.html
The euro declined to a two-week low
versus the dollar after a report showed the region’s economy
contracted last quarter, adding to signs the European debt
crisis is hampering global growth.  Australia’s dollar weakened to almost a six-week low
against the dollar as Reserve Bank Deputy Governor  Philip Lowe 
said the nation must be alert that the currency may be too
strong. The yen gained for a fifth day against the 17-nation
currency as more than 20 percent of Greece’s private creditors
have agreed to debt restructuring. Norway’s krone and  Canada ’s
dollar slumped as  oil prices  declined to a two-week low as the
European Union offered to restart talks with Iran.  “Looking at the euro region gross domestic product in the
context of the global economy, it reinforces the fact that we’re
slowing,” said Eric Viloria, senior currency strategist for
Gain Capital Group LLC in New York. “Growth is lingering in the
background because people are so focused on Greece and central-
bank headlines, but when you look at it from a broader
perspective, that is going to weigh on the euro.”  The euro slid 0.8 percent to $1.3112 at 5:01 p.m. in New
York, after touching $1.3103, the lowest level since Feb. 16.
The shared currency dropped 1.6 percent to 106.07 yen, extending
its decline in the past week to 2.2 percent. The dollar slipped
0.8 percent to 80.89 yen.  Aussie Falls  Australia ’s dollar fell as much as 1.4 percent to $1.0525,
weakest since Jan. 25, before trading at $1.0552. It declined
1.9 percent to 85.37 yen.  Australia’s dollar has gained 3 percent in the past six
months, the best performer on the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes which tracks 10 developed-nation currencies. The dollar
has strengthened 4.6 percent, and the yen weakened 2.3 percent.  “It is possible for exchange rates to overshoot,” Lowe
said in the text of a speech today in Sydney. “While the
evidence of the past 30 years is that movements in the exchange
rate have been an important stabilizing force for the Australian
economy, the unusual nature of the current forces means that we
need to watch things closely.”  The central bank left its benchmark rate at 4.25 percent
yesterday and reiterated it has scope to ease monetary policy if
needed.  Euro Pressure  The euro has been sold for six consecutive trading days,
according to Bank of  New York  Mellon Corp.’s iFlow data. The
pace of the outflows during the past four days has been twice as
strong as the average for the past year, the data show.  “Investor mindset is such that they’re just shunning
European-denominated assets,” said  Samarjit Shankar , a managing
director for the foreign-exchange group in  Boston  at BNY Mellon.
“You see this spate of news flow coming out showing that
leading policy makers around the world coming to terms with
growth being at a premium.”  Norway’s krone fell against all its major counterparts and
declined 1.6 percent to 5.7064 versus the dollar and weakened
0.8 percent to 7.4825 per euro. Canada’s dollar fell 0.7
percent, weakening to below parity, to C$1.0019. Both oil-
exporting nations had seen their currencies rally as the
European Union said it would cease oil imports from  Iran 
starting in July.  Crude oil declined as much as 2.6 percent to $104.51 a
barrel in New York, the lowest since Feb. 21. Catherine Ashton,
the EU foreign policy chief, offered negotiations with Iran on
behalf of China, France, Germany, Russia, the U.K. and the U.S.  Technical Developments  The euro may decline to a six-week low versus the dollar if
the shared currency closes below $1.3171, according to Citigroup
Inc. The level is a support drawn from a trend line from the
Jan. 13 and Feb. 16 lows,  Tom Fitzpatrick , chief technical
analyst at Citigroup in New York said.  Europe ’s gross domestic product shrank 0.3 percent from the
third quarter, the region’s statistics office said today,
confirming an initial estimate published on Feb. 15. Exports
fell 0.4 percent and household spending declined 0.4 percent.
The ECB will keep its benchmark  interest rate  t a record low 1
percent on March 8, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  The euro dropped as  Greece  struggles to complete a bond
exchange with private investors by March 8 in order to receive a
130 billion-euro ($171 billion) bailout.  Yen Trend  The yen rose against the dollar for a second day as it
rebounded from oversold levels for the first time in 13 days.
Its 14-day relative strength index advanced above the 30 level,
which indicates an asset may have declined too far, too quickly,
for the first session since Feb. 16.  Demand for the Japanese currency was buoyed as the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index fell 1.5 percent and the MSCI World Index
tumbled 2.1 percent.  The U.S. currency appreciated after Federal Reserve Bank of
 Dallas  President  Richard Fisher  said investors should prepare
for less U.S. monetary easing. Recent reports have highlighted
that U.S. growth is broadening, with data yesterday showing
 service industries  unexpectedly expanded last month at the
fastest pace in a year.  “If the data continue to improve, however gradually, the
markets should begin preparing themselves for the good Dr. Fed
to wean them from their dependency rather than administer
further dosage,” Fisher said yesterday in Dallas.  Intercontinental Exchange Inc.’s  Dollar Index (DXY) , used to
track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, gained 0.6 percent to 79.836.  The gauge may find it difficult to strengthen further
without “clear euro-negative news,” according to Lloyds Bank
Corporate Markets, citing trading patterns.  The  Dollar Index  last rose above 80 Feb. 16, when it
reached 80.119, the  highest  level since Jan. 25.  -- With assistance from Keith Jenkins in  London , Michael Heath
in Sydney and Aki Ito in  San Francisco . Editors:  Paul Cox , Greg Storey  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  