-- Ex-Millennium Manager Indicted in Fraud Case
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-03-06T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/ex-millennium-global-manager-michael-balboa-indicted-in-bond-fraud-case.html
Ex-Millennium Global Investments
Ltd. portfolio manager Michael Balboa was indicted on  securities
fraud  charges following his arrest in December for allegedly
participating in a scheme involving Nigerian sovereign debt,  Balboa, who worked at Millennium from December 2006 to
October 2008, was named in the four-count indictment unsealed
March 1 in federal court in  Manhattan . Balboa is charged with
conspiracy to commit securities fraud, conspiracy to commit  wire
fraud , securities fraud and wire fraud.  Prosecutors said Balboa, who was based in  London , and two
unnamed co-conspirators participated in a 10-month scheme in
2008 in which he sent “phony mark-to-market quotes” to an
independent valuation agent who inflated month-end market prices
for Nigerian warrants.  He overstated the value of the fund’s illiquid securities
and securities positions and as a result, was able to generate
“millions of dollars” in illegitimate management and
performance fees.  Balboa earned about $6.5 million for his services to the
fund, which was based on his fund’s performance, prosecutors
said. As a result of the scheme, the fund was able to increase
its total valuation for the Nigerian warrants from more than $12
million in January 2008 to more than $84 million in August 2008,
the U.S. said.  SEC Lawsuit  The Securities and Exchange Commission filed a related
lawsuit in December, claiming that Balboa, of Surrey,  England ,
and BCP Securities LLC broker Gilles De Charsonville of  Madrid 
used the overvalued securities positions to “generate millions
of dollars in illegitimate management and performance fees.”  De Charsonville hasn’t been charged in Manhattan with
criminal wrongdoing.  Balboa faces as long as 20 years in prison if convicted of
the securities fraud, Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said
at the time of Balboa’s arrest in December.  ``I think this case is really one where I'm not sure the 
government has a full grasp of all the facts, because if they did, 
they'd be hard pressed to have indicted,'' Joseph Tacopina, a 
lawyer for Balboa, said in a phone interview. ``We intend to 
vigorously defend this case.''  Balboa’s fund, which bought emerging-market debt, was
liquidated by London-based Millennium Global after lenders
withdrew credit in the wake of the financial crisis, two people
familiar with the situation said in October 2008. His portfolio
suffered almost $1 billion in losses, the  SEC (SEC)  said in court
papers.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Balboa, 12-cr-00196, and the
civil case is SEC v. Balboa, 11-cv-08731, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  