-- MF Brokerage Trustee Seeks to Dismiss Suit Over Back Pay
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y   a n d   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-03-05T22:24:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/mf-brokerage-trustee-seeks-to-dismiss-suit-over-back-pay-1-.html
MF Global Inc.’s shouldn’t face a
lawsuit by former employees demanding back pay because the usual
rules of notice only apply to employers, not liquidators, a
trustee unwinding the estate said.  James Giddens, the trustee overseeing the liquidation of
the failed brokerage, asked a judge in  Manhattan  bankruptcy
court today that lawsuits seeking back pay from the company be
dismissed. The Worker Adjustment Training and Notification, or
WARN act, doesn’t apply to the notice that dismissed 1,066
employees after MF Global filed for bankruptcy, Giddens said.  “The Trustee here is not operating a business enterprise
in any recognized commercial sense,” and therefore is a
liquidator, not an employer under both federal and  New York 
state law, lawyers for Giddens wrote.  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)  and its broker-dealer face lawsuits
from former employees who said they were terminated without
cause and seek to recover 60 days’ wages and benefits. The WARN
act requires an employer to give notice of plant closings or
mass layoffs.  The MF Global parent sought bankruptcy court protection
Oct. 31 after making bets on European sovereign debt and getting
margin calls. The firm listed liabilities of $39.7 billion and
assets of $41 billion in Chapter 11 papers. The Securities
Investor Protection Corp. sued the broker-dealer the same day to
put it in liquidation.  The brokerage case is In re MF Global Inc., 11-ap-2790,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). The employee suit is Thielmann and Desparois v. MF
Global Finance USA, 11-02880, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net ;
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  