-- Facebook Claimant Ceglia Hires Milberg for Zuckerberg Case
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-03-06T00:22:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/facebook-claimant-ceglia-hires-law-firm-milberg-to-press-ownership-lawsuit.html
Paul Ceglia , who claims that a 2003
contract with  Facebook Inc. (FB)  co-founder  Mark Zuckerberg  gave him
half the company, hired  Milberg LLP (1401L)  to represent him in his
federal lawsuit against the world’s biggest social network.  The move, made public in filings today in federal court in
Buffalo, New York, follows the hiring and departure of several
firms from Ceglia’s legal team since he sued in June 2010.
Ceglia’s new lawyers said they want access to the computers
Zuckerberg used at the time of the contract.  “We took a good hard look at all of the information
available, including evidence in Mr. Ceglia’s favor, and we
believe he deserves to have his day in court,” said Sanford P. Dumain, chairman of Milberg’s executive committee. “We look
forward to examining records from computers that Mr. Zuckerberg
used when he was a freshman at Harvard and other records that
will help answer questions about the ownership of Facebook.”  Milberg, a 71-lawyer firm based in  New York , is known for
representing investors and consumers in class-action lawsuits.
Since its founding in 1965, Milberg has recovered billions of
dollars in settlements for its clients.  2004 Split  Formerly Milberg Weiss Bershad Hynes & Lerach LLP, it was
the biggest firm representing shareholders in securities fraud
suits against companies before it split in two in 2004 amid a
U.S. investigation that sent four former partners to prison.  In 2010, Milberg lawyers won a verdict against  Vivendi SA (VIV) 
in one of just a handful of securities fraud class actions ever
tried to completion.  The National Law Journal , a legal
newspaper, named Milberg to its 2011 “Plaintiffs’ Hot List.”
Dumain was one of the lead lawyers in a suit that resulted in a
$3.2 billion settlement with  Tyco International Ltd. (TYC)  in 2007 and
was lead counsel in a case against Nortel Networks Corp. that
settled for $1 billion in 2006.  Milberg recovered $137.5 million in shareholder suit
settlements in 2010, the most recent year for which data are
available, according to  Institutional Shareholder Services Inc. ,
which tracks the settlements.  “Their participation speaks to the strength of Paul’s
case, now that defendants will not be able to dismiss it on
their empty claims of fraud,”  Dean M. Boland , a Lakewood, Ohio,
lawyer who represents Ceglia, said today in a text message.  ‘Fabricated Contract’  Facebook, based in  Menlo Park ,  California , accuses Ceglia
of fabricating the contract and has called his suit a fraud.  Orin Snyder, a Facebook lawyer, didn’t immediately return a
phone message seeking comment on the hiring.  Three Milberg lawyers, led by Dumain, filed notices today
in federal court in Buffalo saying they joined Ceglia’s legal
team. Two other lawyers,  Robert B. Calihan  of Rochester, New
York, and  Peter K. Skivington  of Geneseo, New York, also told
the court they represent Ceglia.  Firms including DLA Piper LLP represented Ceglia and left
the case. U.S. Magistrate Judge Leslie Foschio in Buffalo fined
Ceglia $5,000 in January for ignoring a court order to give
Facebook access to his e-mail accounts. Foschio later said
Ceglia must pay Facebook $75,777 to reimburse the company for
its legal fees in the matter.  Former Milberg partners Melvyn I. Weiss, William S. Lerach,
David J. Bershad and Steven G. Schulman pleaded guilty in 2007
and 2008 to criminal charges in connection with paying kickbacks
to firm clients who agreed to sue companies. The four were
disbarred and served prison sentences.  Facebook filed papers with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission last month to raise $5 billion in an initial public
offering. The company is worth an estimated $93.1 billion,
according to SharesPost.com, which tracks nonpublic companies.  The case is Ceglia v. Zuckerberg, 1:10-cv-00569, U.S.
District Court, Western District of New York (Buffalo).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 