-- FDA Chemist Gets Five Years in Prison for Insider Trading
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-03-05T23:20:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/fda-chemist-liang-sentenced-to-five-years-prison-in-insider-trading-case.html
A U.S. Food and Drug Administration
chemist was sentenced to five years in prison for using his
access to the agency’s drug-approval process to make $3.78
million in an insider-trading scheme.  Cheng Yi Liang, who worked for the FDA’s  Center for Drug
Evaluation and Research , was sentenced today by U.S. District
Judge Deborah Chasanow in Greenbelt, Maryland, after pleading
guilty last year to one count of  securities fraud  and one count
of making false statements.  Liang, 58, was also ordered to forfeit more than $3.7
million. The government sought a sentence at the “high end” of
the guidelines’ range of 57 to 71 months, claiming that Liang’s
“insider trading conduct” falls within the top 14 percent of
insider trading cases filed between 2006 and 2010, according to
court papers.  “Cheng Yi Liang bought and sold stocks based on non-public
information, and he tried to conceal his crimes by using the
names of friends and relatives,” U.S. Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein said in an e-mailed statement. “Mr. Liang violated
his duty of loyalty to the FDA and profited from inside
information.”  From July 2006 to March 2011, Liang bought and sold stock
in more than 25 companies based on inside information from the
FDA, according to a charging document.  As part of his plea, Liang agreed to forfeit more than $3.7
million in bank and brokerage accounts and property, including
his home in Gaithersburg,  Maryland . Liang resigned from the FDA
on Sept. 9.  ‘Deeply Sorry’  About $1 million of the forfeited funds have already been
recovered, Liang’s lawyer, Joseph Evans, said in an e-mail.  “Dr. Liang is deeply sorry for his misconduct,” said
Evans, an assistant federal public defender. “Along with the
shame that he has brought to his family and friends, he feels
especially bad for the FDA for whom he had worked for so many
years. He also understands that his actions harmed the  United
States of America  which took him in and permitted him to become
a citizen.”  Liang, an FDA employee since 1996, worked in the drug
evaluation unit since at least 2001. He had access to nonpublic
records of the review process for each drug examined by the
office, Assistant U.S. Attorney David Salem said during Liang’s
Oct. 18 plea hearing.  $1 Million Gain  The Securities and Exchange Commission, in a parallel civil
lawsuit also in Greenbelt, said Liang traded in smaller
developmental drug companies, whose stock prices would be more
likely to be affected significantly by government decisions. He
gained more than $1 million trading stock of  Vanda
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VNDA) , a Rockville, Maryland, firm that rose more
than sevenfold a day after the FDA cleared sales of its
schizophrenia drug Fanapt in May 2009, according to the lawsuit.  He profited from share purchases ahead of 19 positive
announcements and on short sales before six negative decisions,
the SEC said. He also avoided losses by selling stock before two
other negative decisions, the agency said. His average profit on
each announcement was $135,015, according to the lawsuit.  Liang settled the SEC case in November.  Liang made the trades using his home computer or an Apple
iPad, according to the plea agreement.  He made about $380,000 in advance of a Jan. 21 announcement
that Newton, Massachusetts-based  Clinical Data Inc. (CLDA)  ’s Viibryd,
a drug to treat a depressive disorder, had been approved,
prosecutors said.  Initial Charges  Liang and his son Andrew were initially charged in March
2011 with conspiracy,  wire fraud  and securities fraud.  Andrew Liang was sentenced to one year in prison after
pleading guilty to possession of child pornography found in the
course of the fraud investigation. He must also register as a
sex offender.  The securities case against Andrew Liang was dismissed at
the request of prosecutors.  The cases are U.S. v. Chen Yi Liang, 11-cr-0530, and U.S.
v. Andrew Liang, 11-cr-00501, U.S. District Court, District of
Maryland (Greenbelt).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  