-- Fed Would Focus Solely on Price Stability Under Bill Proposed by Brady
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-03-05T17:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/fed-would-focus-solely-on-price-stability-under-bill-proposed-by-brady.html
Representative  Kevin Brady , the top
Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, will introduce
legislation March 8 that would narrow the  Federal Reserve ’s
focus to  price stability  and eliminate its full-employment
mandate.  “The Federal Reserve’s monetary experimentation of the
last decade must end,” the Texas lawmaker said in remarks
prepared for delivery today in  Washington . “Congress should
give the Federal Reserve a single mandate for price stability,
and the Federal Reserve should return to a rules-based system of
inflation targeting to achieve that mandate.”  The legislation, known as the Sound Dollar Act, would also
restrict the central bank’s balance sheet to Treasury
securities, speed the release of transcripts from Federal Open
Market Committee meetings and give the Fed’s 12 regional
presidents permanent votes on monetary policy.  Brady and his staff have held discussions with other
congressional Republicans and with William C. Dudley, president
of the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York . Brady said Dudley
argued in favor of the so-called dual mandate, which requires
the Fed to focus on both full employment and low inflation.  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke and his colleagues on the FOMC
in January formally adopted a 2 percent goal for the rate of
inflation and also pledged to move the economy toward maximum
employment, which they currently estimate as a jobless rate
between 5.2 percent and 6 percent.  “I strongly applaud Chairman Bernanke and the other
members of the FOMC for this step toward a rules-based,
inflation-targeting regime,” Brady said.  “However, this is merely a policy statement that could be
reversed,” he said in a speech at the  American Enterprise
Institute , a Washington research group that promotes limited
government and free markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  