-- Fisher: Investors Should Prepare for Less Fed Easing
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-03-06T03:50:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/fisher-says-investors-should-prepare-for-less-fed-easing-as-data-improve.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
President  Richard Fisher  said he opposes additional Fed
purchases of securities and urged  Wall Street  to get ready to
become less dependent on monetary easing.  “I would suggest to you that, if the data continue to
improve, however gradually, the markets should begin preparing
themselves for the good Dr. Fed to wean them from their
dependency rather than administer further dosage,” Fisher said
today in a speech in Dallas. Financial markets “have become
hooked on the monetary morphine we provided” after the 2008
financial crisis, he said.  Recent reports have highlighted that the U.S. expansion is
broadening, with data today showing service industries
unexpectedly expanded last month at the fastest pace in a year.
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  gave no indication in congressional
testimony last week that the Fed was considering altering record
stimulus. The Federal Open Market Committee in January extended
a plan to keep  interest rates  low at least through late 2014.  “I am personally perplexed by the continued preoccupation,
bordering upon fetish, that Wall Street exhibits regarding the
potential for further monetary accommodation -- the so-called
QE3, or third round of quantitative easing,” Fisher said to the
Dallas Regional Chamber of Commerce.  Dissented Twice  Fisher, who isn’t a voting member of the FOMC this year,
has been among the most vocal critics of Fed easing. He
dissented last year twice against moves to push down long-term
rates and to keep the benchmark  U.S. interest rate  near zero
until at least mid-2013. He voted five times in 2008 in favor of
tighter policy.  “I don’t believe it’s the role of the central bank to bail
out -- and I use this term very advisedly -- fiscal
misfeasance,” Fisher said later in Houston at CERAWeek, a
conference sponsored by IHS Cambridge Energy Research
Associates. “It’s time for fiscal authorities to pull up their
socks.”  Responding to audience questions in Dallas, Fisher
described U.S. businesses as “extremely productive” and said
U.S. officials in charge of fiscal policy should overcome
budgetary challenges.  “The economy’s beginning to raise its head,” Fisher said.
“American businesses are lean and mean and ready to go.”  Fisher also said after both speeches that while he is
concerned about the impact of rising gasoline costs on
consumers, he doubts they will persist. Higher gas prices will
have “a significant impact” on inflation reports for February,
he said.  Greatest Concern  “I’m going to watch this development carefully,” he said.
Fisher said his greater concern is “ job creation .”  The  Standard & Poor’s  500 index fell 0.4 percent to
1,364.33 at 4 p.m. in  New York  after  China  announced the lowest
economic growth target since 2004 and European services and
manufacturing output was less than earlier estimated.  “On balance, the data indicate improving growth and
prospects for job creation in 2012,” Fisher said in his speech.
“However, the outlook is hardly robust and remains constrained
by the fiscal and regulatory misfeasance of Congress and the
executive branch,” with rising deficits and regulations hurting
growth.  “While price stability is being challenged by the recent
run-up in gasoline prices,” which has yet to be reflected in
inflation reports, “the underlying trend has been converging
toward the 2 percent goal” on annual price increases that is
the Fed’s official target, Fisher said.  Orders Picked Up  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s  non-manufacturing
index  climbed in February to 57.3 from 56.8 the previous month,
marking the fastest expansion in a year after orders picked up,
according to a report today. In the meantime, jobless claims
have fallen to a four-year low, Labor Department figures showed
last week, adding to evidence that the labor recovery is gaining
momentum as well.  The Fed’s Beige Book regional business survey, released
Feb. 29, said the economy expanded at a “modest to moderate
pace” in January and early February, fueled by manufacturers,
including automakers. The survey is published two weeks before
the FOMC meets to set monetary policy.  “The job market remains far from normal,” Bernanke told
Congress last week in his semiannual testimony. “At present,
with the  unemployment rate  elevated and the inflation outlook
subdued, the committee judges that sustaining a highly
accommodative stance for monetary policy is consistent with
promoting both objectives” of the Fed for stable prices and
maximum employment, he said.  Fisher, 62, has been president of the  Dallas  Fed since
2005. His district includes  Texas , northern Louisiana and
southern  New Mexico .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  