-- Fitch Affirms Croatia’s Ratings at BBB-
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2012-04-10T12:36:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/fitch-affirms-croatia-s-ratings-at-bbb-keeps-negative-outlook.html
(Corrects nature of debt in sixth paragraph for March 5
report.)  Croatia had its  credit rating 
affirmed by  Fitch Ratings  at BBB-, the lowest investment grade,
with a negative outlook because of its “sizable” budget
deficit and lack of policy steps to consolidate finances.  Risks to Croatia’s creditworthiness “remain on the
downside” with public finances “a key concern,” Michele Napolitano, associate director at Fitch’s Emerging Europe
Sovereigns team in  London , said in a statement today. The rating
is on par with  Iceland ,  Latvia ,  Bulgaria  and  Romania .  Croatia, which is set to become the  European Union’ s 28th
member in 2013, needs to service a growing external debt and
revive its faltering economy. Prime Minister  Zoran Milanovic 
said last month that the economy will grow 0.8 percent in 2012,
while central bank Governor Zeljko Rohatinski said in December
the country may slide into recession again this year after a
modest recovery in 2011.  The government, which took power in January, proposed to
cut spending by 4 billion kuna ($700 million) by approving lower
subsidies to state companies and clipping the public wage bill.  “Despite some positive initial policy steps by the new
government, further fiscal consolidation measures and structural
reforms will be required to boost economic growth and stabilize
the public finances,” Napolitano said in the statement.
“Meanwhile, Croatia’s sizable  budget deficit , relatively high
public and external debt ratios, and the difficult external
financing environment mean that risks to creditworthiness remain
on the downside.”  Public Debt  The country’s public debt reached 46 percent of gross
domestic product last year. Fitch forecast that it will peak at
56 percent in 2015.  The government plans to revive investment by injecting 8
billion kuna from reconstruction banks and EU funds into
infrastructure and the  energy industry . The  World Bank  last
month said growth this year will probably remain flat, while
Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank d.d. today predicted a contraction of 2
percent, citing a continued investment drought and high external
risks.  These revenue projections are “optimistic,” Napolitano
said, adding the government will have to make more cuts to meet
its budget deficit target of 3.8 percent of GDP.  “In terms of potential rating triggers, significant fiscal
slippage from the government’s targets and a failure to
introduce substantive structural reforms to boost growth would
lead to a downgrade,” Napolitano said. “Balance of payment
pressures that led to a sustained fall in foreign exchange
reserves would also put downward pressure on the rating.”  “Huge Expectations”  Finance Minister Slavko Linic said Fitch’s rating
affirmation will give “significant support” to measures the
government has taken so far and intends to take in the future.  “This also raises huge expectations from the government to
continue with the reforms and reduce our debt,” Linic told
reporters in Zagreb, adding he expects no change in the
borrowing terms for an international bond from  Croatia  in early
April in light of the Fitch decision.  Fitch has given Croatia the “benefit of the doubt”
because of the government’s fiscal consolidation program,
Timothy Ash, emerging-markets analyst at the Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc, wrote today in an e-mailed statement.  “Croatia is not out of the woods, and unless the
government can come up with growth-enhancing reforms, they will
end up with junk bond status,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  