-- For an Easy, Affordable, Lawyer-Free Divorce, Check ‘Yes’: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-03-05T00:00:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/for-an-easy-affordable-lawyer-free-divorce-check-yes-view.html
A controversy over divorce
procedures in  Texas  is calling attention to a profound shift in
the way Americans in all 50 states exit marriage: They’re going
to court on their own, without lawyers.  Few courts keep statistics, but small studies and local
estimates  suggest  that self-divorcers now make up 40 percent to
70 percent of the total, depending on the jurisdiction, with the
highest numbers in places with relatively large populations of
poor people.  Naturally, this is causing a lot of chaos at family courts,
and extra work for clerks who are called upon to help multitudes
of legal novices, often in the pangs of marital separation, work
through the process.  The  Supreme Court  of Texas, like courts in dozens of other
states and counties, wants to  make things easier  by providing
do-it-yourself petitions, summonses and other forms needed to
manage a divorce. Texas family lawyers are fighting back,
arguing that the forms may not provide adequate help, that
marriages are best dissolved with a lawyer’s advice and
assistance.  We have nothing against lawyers. We know and like them. And
we do not dispute that they can be extremely helpful in divorce:
In situations involving long-married spouses who have children
and real property, they’re essential. But judges know that the
significant share of marriages are simpler than that. In any
case, many people who want divorces can’t afford lawyers’ fees.  Budget cuts in recent years have limited the availability
of legal-aid lawyers. They now rarely help people with divorce,
except in cases of domestic violence or child abduction.  This is why the Texas court’s solution is sound, and should
be taken up by every other jurisdiction that hasn’t already
created fill-in-the-blank forms.  Lawyer-free divorce is not ideal, but divorce rarely
involves ideal circumstances. Marriages do split apart, however,
and our courts have done well to remove unnecessary barriers to
legal dissolution. Until 1969, when  California  got the ball
rolling on no-fault divorce, one spouse always had to sue --
accusing the other of inflicting some harm such as adultery,
abuse or abandonment.  No-fault divorce didn’t raise divorce rates. Those began
rising in the 1960s and 1970s -- probably as a result of
cultural changes and increasing mobility, scholars say -- before
states widely adopted no-fault laws. Since 1981, national
 divorce rates  have been stable or falling.  There’s no reason to fear easier self-divorce will harm the
institution of marriage or contribute to the increase in single
parenting. Studies and observations of experiences in the 36
states that already have self-help divorce forms show that the
main reason people represent themselves is that they can’t
afford high lawyers’ fees.  Couples who do not divorce because they can’t afford it
still split up. And they still find new partners. They are,
however, prevented from remarrying.  A study in the early 1990s of self-divorcers in Maricopa
County,  Arizona  (a jurisdiction that pioneered do-it-yourself
divorce forms), found that they tended to be relatively well-
educated and younger than people who employed lawyers. They also
ended up relatively well satisfied with their divorce and the
legal process.  A more recent  study , of more than 500 divorces initiated in
2005 in Waukesha County,  Wisconsin , confirmed other observations
that divorcing spouses tend to know when they do or don’t need a
lawyer. The roughly 60 percent of spouses in the sample who
hired lawyers were for the most part in situations where there
were children, the marriage was relatively long and the husband
had a higher income than the wife.  In cases where both spouses used a lawyer, divorces took
nearly four months longer than they did for couples where both
sides represented themselves, perhaps because the cases were
more complex.  Rarely did one spouse, but not the other, have a lawyer.  Waukesha County courts provide laypeople with do-it-
yourself divorce  forms  that -- like those in  California ,  Oregon 
and many  other  places -- are written in plain language an
average high school student could understand. Users check boxes
to show the court, for example, whether they have children or
have lived in the county long enough to qualify for filing a
divorce there.  The simpler a state’s divorce laws, the simpler its forms
can be. They should be available in the variety of languages
used in the state or county.  Ideally, users should be provided some guidance -- short of
legal advice. The Superior Court in Maricopa County, for
example, has several centers staffed by people familiar with the
courts who, without giving legal advice, help self-filers
navigate the  forms  and demystify the process. Video tutorials
can do the same job.  While they’re at it, courts should also provide do-it-
yourself forms for other simple legal procedures, such as name
changes, landlord-tenant disputes, and uncomplicated probate and
bankruptcy cases.  In Texas, the court has signaled its intention to move
ahead with self-help forms, despite the lawyers’ objections. We
trust both sides will be better off with the new system.  Rather than worry about losing business, many lawyers in
other states have learned to take advantage of self-
representation by “unbundling” their services. The lawyer agrees
to work on a piecemeal basis, handling specific tasks such as
drawing up the property settlement or making court appearances.
The client does the rest of the paperwork alone.  This business model addresses the reality that many
divorcing spouses either don’t want or can’t afford to pay a
lawyer a retainer to represent them start to finish. Court-
sanctioned do-it-yourself forms make it possible.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 