-- Ford to Send Owners Software Fix for Dashboard Touch Screens
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-03-05T21:10:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/ford-to-send-customers-touch-screen-controls-update-after-rankings-plunge.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , which has plunged in
quality rankings, on March 8 will begin sending more than
300,000 owners of the Ford Explorer, Edge, Focus and Lincoln MKX
a USB flash drive loaded with new software to fix problems with
MyFord Touch and MyLincoln Touch systems, the company said.  “We know that there’s a group of customers that reported
that there were features of MyFord Touch that were not working
properly and we’ve taken that feedback seriously,”  Derrick Kuzak , Ford’s product-development chief, said today at a
briefing in Dearborn, Michigan. “We expect these improvements
will put us back on track in the quality rankings.”  Glitches with the touch screens controlling audio, phone,
climate and navigation systems were one reason Ford fell the
most of any car company in  Consumer Reports ’ annual Automaker
Report Cards last month. Ford slid to 10th place, from fifth a
year earlier, in the magazine’s testing of braking, handling,
comfort, convenience, safety and fuel economy.  “Subpar reliability of some new vehicles, due largely to
the troublesome MyFord Touch infotainment system and Power-Shift
automatic transmission, hurt its report-card grade,” the
Yonkers,  New York , magazine said in a Feb. 28 statement.  In October, Ford fell to 20th from 10th in annual
reliability rankings from Consumer Reports. The technology also
was blamed by J.D. Power & Associates for Ford falling to 23rd
from fifth in its 2011 new-car quality survey. Ford Chief
Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  made quality a pillar of his
turnaround plan for the second-largest U.S. automaker.  Choice for Buyers  Consumers can install the new software themselves, which
takes about 60 minutes, or take it to a dealer for assistance,
Ford said. The software upgrade, which dealers received today,
is aimed to prevent system crashes, the automaker said. Ford
redesigned more than 1,000 screens on the system, to make
buttons and graphics larger and more responsive.  “Some of the customer symptoms with black screens and
resets, that’s been eliminated,” Graydon Reitz, Ford’s global
director of electronics and electrical systems, said at the
briefing. “We’ve gone through an exhaustive testing program
with this performance upgrade to make sure it’s ready.”  Ford enhanced the system to make it compatible with tablet
computers such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad. The software upgrade
enables Ford’s voice-activated Sync system, developed with
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , to read audiobooks to drivers from tablets,
Kuzak said.  “This is more than just an update; this is a substantial
upgrade,” Kuzak said. “We’ve learned and we’re learning how to
prove out the software.”  Ford said in November it expected the download time would
be about 45 minutes. The company added more content and changed
additional screens and functions in response to feedback
received from 1,700 employees and dealers, Kuzak said.  Ford fell 2 percent to $12.46 at the close in New York. The
shares have risen 16 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Dearborn,  Michigan , at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  