-- Former Yankees No. 1 Pick Brien Taylor Arrested in Undercover Drug Sting
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-03-05T20:57:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/former-yankees-taylor-caught-in-drug-sting.html
Brien Taylor, who received a then-
record $1.6 million bonus after being chosen by the  New York
Yankees  with the first pick in the 1991 Major League Baseball
draft, was arrested last week on 15 drug-related charges.  He never got to the major leagues and hadn’t pitched in 12
years, his career deteriorating after he injured his throwing
shoulder in a non-baseball-related fight in December 1993.  Taylor, 40, is charged with selling “a large quantity” of
cocaine and crack cocaine to undercover narcotics agents over a
period of several months, according to a statement from the
 Carteret County Sheriff’s Office  in Beaufort,  North Carolina .  A Beaufort resident, Taylor was arrested March 1 and was in
court the next day, Captain Jason Wank said in an e-mail. Taylor
remains in Carteret County Jail under $275,000 bond and his next
court appearance is scheduled for March 23, Wank said.  Taylor is charged with a total of 15 counts, including
possession with intent to manufacture, sell and deliver cocaine,
according to the sheriff’s office release.  His request for a court-appointed lawyer was denied by the
judge and he is required to hire his own counsel, which he has
yet to do, Wank said. There is no legal representative contact
on file for Taylor, Joy Gillikin, assistant Carteret County
Court clerk, said in a telephone interview. A telephone number
listed for Taylor and his mother was disconnected.  Best Prospect  Rated the sport’s best prospect by  Baseball America  in
1992, Taylor was 19-15, with 337 strikeouts and a 3.02 earned-
run average, in his first two seasons in Class A and Class AA.  Taylor dislocated his left shoulder and tore his labrum
following the 1993 season when he confronted a man who earlier
had fought with his brother. He missed the 1994 campaign
following surgery, and never again advanced past Single-A in
five minor league seasons. He last pitched with the Cleveland
Indians’ affiliate in Columbus,  Georgia , in 2000.  Taylor is one of two former No. 1 picks to retire from
baseball without playing in the Major Leagues. Catcher Steve
Chilcott, drafted first in 1966 by the  New York Mets , played six
minor league seasons before retiring.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  