-- European Governments Deny Plan to Ostracize Socialist Hollande
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-03-05T13:15:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/france-s-fillon-denies-european-agreement-to-ostracize-hollande.html
France, Germany and Spain rejected a
Der Spiegel report that they have made an agreement to ostracize
Socialist presidential challenger  Francois Hollande .  The German magazine said German Chancellor Angela Merkel,
U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron, Spanish Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  and Italian Prime Minister Mario Monti had all
agreed not to host Hollande before France’s presidential
election because of his demands to renegotiate a European Union
budget treaty if he’s elected. The magazine didn’t say where it
obtained the information.  “Obviously not,” French Prime Minister  Francois Fillon 
said when asked on Europe 1 radio if such an accord existed.
“He’s taking on airs. The idea that these people would spend
their time on the phone talking about him is absurd.”  Steffen Seibert, Merkel’s chief spokesman, told reporters
in Berlin today that the report was “false.” Rajoy told
reporters in Madrid that he’d never said he wouldn’t receive
Hollande, even if he’d rather see President  Nicolas Sarkozy  re-
elected because they are part of the same political family.  With less than two months to go before the first round of
French elections,Sarkozy trailed Hollande by 7.5 percentage
points in an LH2 poll of 971 registered voters for Yahoo! that
was published yesterday.  Talking on I-tele television today, Socialist Party chief
 Martine Aubry  said Merkel didn’t want to receive Hollande after
he asked for a meeting. She didn’t say when Hollande made the
request. The Socialist front-runner made a one-day visit to
Berlin in December where he attend a meeting of the opposition
SPD party and gave an hour-long speech.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  