-- Heating Oil Gains on Iran Concerns as Obama, Netanyahu Meet
-- B y   B a r b a r a   J .   P o w e l l
-- 2012-03-05T20:53:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/gasoline-falls-on-china-growth-outlook-u-s-factory-orders.html
Heating oil rose along with Brent
crude and European gasoil as President  Barack Obama  and Israeli
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  discuss how to confront Iran
over its nuclear program.  Futures gained as Obama, while asking Israel to help dial
back “too much loose talk of war,” said he takes “no options
off the table” including a military effort to stop Iran from
having a nuclear weapon. Prices have been boosted by concern
that tension over Iran’s nuclear research program, which has
drawn sanctions, would escalate and disrupt production.  “There’s the big meeting with Netanyahu today, and the
ongoing concern of whether Iran is going to back down is
boosting prices,” said  Phil Flynn , vice president of research
at PFGBest in  Chicago .  April-delivery heating oil gained 1.56 cents, or 0.5
percent, to settle at $3.2174 a gallon on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Prices are up 9.6 percent this year.  Obama told Netanyahu today that “there is a window” for a
diplomatic solution before turning to military action to stop
Iran from getting a nuclear weapon. Obama also told the Israeli
leader that the U.S. has a “rock solid” commitment to Israel’s
security.  Heating oil rose as Brent oil and gasoil advanced on
 London ’s ICE Futures Europe exchange. Brent for April settlement
rose 15 cents to $123.80 a barrel. March gasoil advanced $2.50
to $1,013 a ton, while the April contract increased $3 to
$1,016.  “Heating oil is following Brent and Brent is up on
concerns over potential supply disruptions out of Iran,” said
 Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston.  Gasoil Supplies  Declining gasoil supplies in  Europe  indicate more demand
for U.S. diesel exports.  Gasoil stockpiles  in independent
storage fell decreased 1.1 percent to 2.54 million metric tons
in Europe’s Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp oil-trading hub during
the week ended March 1, according to PJK International BV.  “If gasoil is stronger, that would help heating oil,”
said Fred Rigolini, vice president of Paramount Options Inc. in
 New York .  Gasoline slipped as equities fell after U.S. factory orders
sank and  China  cut its economic growth outlook, raising concern
about the global economy and fuel demand. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index fell 0.4 percent at 3:18 p.m. in New York.  Bookings (TMNOCHNG)  to U.S. factories decreased in January for the
first time in three months, figures from the Commerce Department
showed today. China pared the nation’s growth target to 7.5
percent from an 8 percent goal in place since 2005.  ‘Iran Premium’  “We’ve still got an  Iran  premium in the market, but we’re
fluctuating on low volume and cautiously off a little with
equities,” said Fred Rigolini, vice president of Paramount
Options Inc. in New York.  Gasoline for April delivery sank 1.41 cents, or 0.4
percent, to settle at $3.258 a gallon on the exchange. Prices
have gained 21 percent this year, making it the best-performing
energy commodity in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 raw
materials.  Gasoline’s premium to heating oil narrowed to 4.06 cents
from 7.03 cents on March 2.  Regular gasoline  at the pump, averaged nationwide, rose 0.3
cent to $3.767 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA data. Prices
have increased 15 percent this year, and are 7.8 percent higher
than a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  