-- GCT Semiconductor’s Delayed IPO Reflects U.S. Chip Startup Woes
-- B y   A r i   L e v y ,   I a n   K i n g   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2012-03-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/gct-semiconductor-s-delayed-ipo-reflects-u-s-chip-startup-woes.html
GCT Semiconductor Inc. (GCTS) , which
planned to complete the first initial offering from a U.S.
chipmaker since 2010, is proving just how hard it is for a chip
startup to go public.  The maker of communications processors for phones postponed
its initial public offering last week after investors refused to
pay GCT’s asking price, a person with knowledge of the situation
said. GCT will probably try again after its fiscal year ends in
June, when it has two more quarters of results, said the person,
who asked not to be named because the details are private.  The postponement highlights the challenges that startup
chipmakers face as they try to go public and may determine
whether Cortina Systems Inc., Peregrine Semiconductor Corp. and
Audience Inc., which have all filed their prospectuses, proceed
with their own offerings. While GCT is vying with  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) ,
 Broadcom Corp. (BRCM)  and  Intel Corp. (INTC)  in the mobile-phone chip market,
it generates 1 percent of the sales and has 0.3 percent of the
cash of the smallest of the three.  “It will be a real challenge because they’re so much
smaller than the other guys,” said  Jim McGregor , a
semiconductor analyst at In-Stat in Scottsdale, Arizona. “And
let’s face it, chips aren’t sexy. It’s the devices or it’s the
Internet companies and applications that are.”  Venture financing of U.S.  semiconductor companies  has been
declining because of the prohibitive expenses of getting a
startup off the ground. Chipmakers spend millions developing and
testing their designs before they can know whether an idea is
viable. Meanwhile, the cost of starting software and Internet
companies has gone down, thanks to cheap Web-based programs and
services.  Chips Versus Software  Last year, VCs invested $1.18 billion in semiconductors,
little changed from 2010 and less than one-fifth of the total
invested in software companies. Total investment by venture
capital firms jumped 22 percent to $28.4 billion.  Semiconductors, made from silicon wafers, provide the
brains for electronics ranging from computers to mobile phones,
washing machines to nuclear missiles. GCT is banking on the
surging popularity of smartphones and demand for increased
processing power to make up for its smaller scale. Some 13.1
million 4G phones were sold last year, and that number is set to
rise to 202.2 million in 2015, according to research by IDC
cited by GCT.  San Jose , California-based GCT was among the first
companies to produce chips based on long term evolution, or LTE,
the wireless standard at the heart of new networks being
deployed by  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  and AT&T Inc. Its top
customers include  South Korea ’s LG Electronics Inc., the world’s
third-largest maker of mobile phones.  Freescale’s IPO  GCT filed to raise as much as $67.5 million in its IPO,
offering 7.5 million shares for $7 to $9 each. Alex Sum, a vice
president at GCT, didn’t respond to requests for comment.  Since  Aeroflex (ARX)  Holdings Corp.’s IPO in 2010, the only U.S.
chipmaker to go public was  Freescale Semiconductor (FSL) , a company
with more than $4 billion in annual revenue and a history as a
public company.  Aeroflex, a designer of radio frequency and microwave
integrated circuits, has dropped 44 percent in the last 12
months and is down 20 percent since its IPO in 2010. Chipmaker
 Inphi Corp. (IPHI) , which went public a week before Aeroflex, is down
38 percent in the past year. Of the seven chip companies that
have made it to the public markets over the last five years,
only Inphi and Entropic Communications Inc. are trading above
their offering price.  Wintegra, Beceem  Separately, three semiconductor companies have been
acquired since late 2010 while on file to go public.  PMC-Sierra
Inc. (PMCS)  bought Wintegra Inc., Broadcom bought Beceem Communications
Inc., and Skyworks Solutions Inc. acquired SiGe Semiconductor
Inc.  GCT’s revenue in the three months ended December rose 14
percent from a year earlier to $22.3 million, and the company’s
net loss narrowed to $2.25 million from $2.79 million. Research
and development costs increased 24 percent to $4.19 million.
Qualcomm, with $22 billion in cash, had $14.96 billion of
revenue in fiscal 2011. It spends about 16 percent of its sales
on R&D.  GCT acknowledged some of the risks it faces in IPO
prospectus.  “Many of our competitors have longer operating histories
and customer relationships, significant legacy products and
technology, greater resources and brand recognition, more
industry influence and a larger customer base,” according to
the filing.  While the company has been quick to turn out products for
the latest standard, its chips don’t work with older network
technology, meaning that handset makers would have to install
multiple sets of processors.  That may restrict the use of GCT’s technology to the U.S.,
 Europe ,  Korea  and  Japan , where consumers will buy more expensive
handsets made up of multiple radio semiconductors, according to
Will Strauss, an analyst at Forward Concepts Co. in Tempe,
 Arizona .  “That could hurt them in the huge China market,” Strauss
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net ;
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  