-- General Dynamics to Mantech Buy Small Firms to Tap Deals
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k   a n d   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r
-- 2012-03-05T05:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/general-dynamics-to-mantech-buy-contractors-ticket-to-dance-.html
Ed Silva has grown accustomed to
saying no after his health-care technology company began getting
queries from possible buyers about once a week last year.  The interest in IDL Solutions Inc. of Germantown,
 Wisconsin , came after it won one of 16 seats on a federal
contract valued at $4 billion over 10 years, said Silva, 47, the
company’s senior vice president.  Slots on such multi-award contracts have become coveted
prizes in government contracting, as the U.S. pours more funding
into them even as it plans reductions in total awards. Companies
losing out on the deals are increasingly deploying an
alternative strategy to get aboard: They’re purchasing others
already selected for the contracts.  “You need to buy so you’re not shut out for five, or in
some cases seven or in some cases even 10 years,” said Jean Stack, a McLean, Virginia-based managing director at investment
bank Houlihan Lokey.  In the past two years, top contractors including  General
Dynamics (GD)  Corp.,  Computer Sciences Corp. (CSC)  and  Mantech
International Corp. (MANT)  have made acquisitions to gain or increase
eligibility for awards. In one case, General Dynamics acquired a
company that had itself bought someone else on a contract.  Government spending  on multiple-award contracts, or MACs,
increased 49 percent to $121 billion in fiscal 2010 from $81
billion in fiscal 2006, according to a Bloomberg Government
study. Total contract spending increased at about half that rate
to $534 billion from $429 billion during the same period,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Buying Incumbents  Under MACs, agencies hold competitions to pick multiple
suppliers rather than a single provider. Once chosen for the
pool, the contractors bid against each other for orders as
specific needs arise.  “Buying an incumbent is always an option if you don’t win
a spot on a contract,” said Mark Amtower, who owns a Highland,
Maryland, firm that advises contractors on how to win government
business. “It’s perfectly legal, perfectly ethical.”  Some small businesses view their positions on the
multibillion-dollar umbrella contracts as a way to cash in, he
said.  The government has taken some steps to prevent large
companies from getting access to contracts through acquisitions
of small businesses. A planned Department of Homeland Security
contract for information technology, for example, contains a
provision to remove companies that are purchased by large
competitors.  Buyout Feelers  IDL Solutions, which has 200 employees, received about a
half-dozen acquisition queries annually before it won a seat on
the $4 billion, multiple-award contract with the Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services in 2007, Silva said in an
interview.  The pace of buyout feelers picked up to at least one a week
after the company in November beat fellow seat mates such as
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  for a $59 million
order on the health-care agreement, he said.  “Having the spot on the contract absolutely gets you
attention,” he said.  General Dynamics bought its way onto the same deal by
snapping up ViPS Inc., based in Baltimore, for $225 million in
2008. General Dynamics got its second slot in the agreement when
it purchased Vangent Holding Corp. based in Arlington, Virginia,
for $960 million in September.  Vangent was on the contract because it had purchased an
original seat holder, Buccaneer Computer Systems and Services
Inc. of Warrenton, Virginia, in 2010.  Top Selling Point  General Dynamics considers a “number of factors,”
including a company’s presence on multiple-award contracts, when
evaluating potential acquisitions, Mark Meudt, a  spokesman for
the  Falls Church , Virginia-based company, said in an e-mail.  Computer Sciences, which already had a spot on the same
contract, boosted its position in September by acquiring Maricom
Systems Inc., a Baltimore-based company that specializes in
health-care  information technology .  “They weren’t trying to buy their way into the contract;
they were trying to broaden their footprint” on it, said Chris Guckert, who was the Maricom’s chief operating officer and has
remained in his role after the sale.  Maricom’s seat on the contract was “the No. 1 selling
point,” Guckert said. At least eight other companies were
interested in buying the business, he said.  “It is the ticket to the dance and there are a lot of
companies that would covet having that ticket,” Guckert said in
an interview. He also was a senior vice president at ViPS when
the company was sold to General Dynamics.  Intelligence Contracts  A Defense Intelligence Agency contract for technology
services also has attracted attention from big companies.
Computer Sciences, based in Falls Church,  Virginia , in 2010
acquired CenTauri Solutions LLC of Alexandria, Virginia, a small
business that had a prime position on the agreement, called
Solutions for the Information Technology Enterprise.  The contract with 11 companies is valued at as much as $6.6
billion during five years.  Mantech, an information-technology vendor in Fairfax,
Virginia, in November paid $90 million for Seabrook, Maryland-
based Worldwide Information Network Systems Inc., another vendor
on the agreement.  The intelligence contract was “a big motivator in the
attraction of those buyers to those companies,” said Marc
Marlin, a director at investment bank KippsDeSanto & Co. in
McLean, Virginia. He worked on both deals.  Takeover Candidates  Three of the original five small companies are still on the
contract, and “you would have to believe that those remaining
small businesses would be attractive to people who do not” have
a spot on the agreement, Bill Varner, president of Mantech’s
cybersecurity and technology solutions division, said in an
interview.  Some of the 15 companies selected last year for a $12
billion U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs contract known as T-
4 may become acquisition targets in about a year, once it
becomes clear which companies are winning the most task orders,
said Ed Meagher, a Computer Sciences vice president.  More than 90 vendors competed for the information
technology contract and at least four that were excluded,
including  IBM Corp. (IBM) , of Armonk,  New York , sued or protested at
the Government Accountability Office.  “There are certainly more companies calling us and wanting
to find out what we are,” John Fraser, president of ASM
Research Inc., a Fairfax, Virginia company that won a spot on
the contract last summer, said in an interview. He declined to
say whether the company has received acquisition offers.  At IDL Solutions, the would-be suitors never get very far
with their takeover pitches, said Silva, the company’s senior
vice president.  “We do entertain them, if you will,” Silva said. “Right
now our focus really is on growing the company.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Taborek in Washington at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Miller in Washington at 
 kmiller01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  