-- Frankfurt Subway Drivers Start Week of Public-Sector Strikes in Germany
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2012-03-05T09:09:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/german-public-workers-start-week-of-walkouts-with-frankfurt-subway-strike.html
Subway drivers in  Frankfurt  and
daycare staff in Mainz went on strike today, starting a week of
walkouts by German public-sector workers as the Ver.di labor
union attempts to push through  wage increases .  Warning strikes are planned in the states of Hesse,
Rhineland-Palatinate and Saarland after Ver.di called on all
public-sector employees to participate in the action, union
spokesman Christoph Schmitz said by phone. Strikes will start in
the states of Baden-Wuerttemberg and Mecklenburg-West Pomerania
tomorrow and cover all 16 German states by March 9, he said.  Ver.di,  Germany ’s second-biggest union, wants 6.5 percent
increases for 2 million public-sector workers and a minimum
raise of 200 euros ($264) a month, in contrast to workers in
nations from Ireland to  Greece  that are seeing their pay cut as
governments try to reduce debt. Ver.di called on its members to
take action after talks on March 1 failed to produce an offer. A
second round of negotiations is scheduled to take place on March
12 and March 13 in Potsdam.  “Employers have not made an offer, we feel that’s a
provocation,'' Schmitz said by telephone today. While this
week’s actions are not intended to bring public life to a
standstill, Ver.di expects ‘‘several thousand employees'' from
institutions including job centers, public transportation and
municipal administrations to join today, he said.  Record Employment  The German economy may help to counter a slump in the  euro
zone  as governments impose spending cuts, hurting hiring and
consumer demand. German unemployment was at its lowest in more
than two decades in February and January employment stood at a
record 41.4 million people.  Almost 3,000 workers in clinics, childcare and elderly care
facilities, garbage collection, savings banks and municipal
organizations in Rhineland-Palatinate will take part in in
warning strikes, Ver.di spokesman Juergen Dehnert said. Today’s
focus is on Mainz and Ludwigshafen, where authorities closed
daycare centers because of an expected shortage of staff, he
said.  In Hesse, walkouts are targeted mainly at Frankfurt and
surrounding communities, where ‘‘several thousand'' employees
are participating, with public transportation workers on strike
from early morning and other groups, including daycare and
vehicle licensing staff, following suit, Christian Rothlaender,
a spokesman for Ver.di in Hesse, said. The state has about
125,000 public-sector employees, he said.  Metro trains and trams in Frankfurt aren’t running today,
and services on several bus routes have also been halted, the
city’s transportation authority,  Rhein-Main-Verkehrsverbund ,
said on its website. The network carries about 2 million
passengers each day.  In Saarland, public-sector employees including auxiliary
police and cemetery workers will strike in Saarbruecken and
other towns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  