-- Glaxo to Hire Hundreds in China as Reforms Widen Drug Access
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-05T17:12:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/glaxo-to-hire-hundreds-in-china-as-reforms-may-widen-access-to-its-drugs.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  is adding new
products in  China  and hiring “a few hundred” more salespeople
to promote them, betting that health-care reforms will widen
access to drugs and make up for state-mandated price cuts.  The drugmaker will expand its sales force of 4,000 in China
this year after hiring more than 700 people in 2011, Chief
Executive Officer  Andrew Witty  said today in Beijing.  Glaxo of  London  is in talks with China’s government to
introduce cervical cancer and rotavirus vaccines after winning
approval to sell three new drugs last year, including prostate
treatment Avodart and Volibris for hypertension, Witty said. The
country, which ranks as the world’s fastest-growing market for
medicines, is expanding the list of subsidized drugs and
centralizing purchases to cut prices and improve access for its
1.3 billion people.  “Nobody likes prices cuts,” Witty said in an interview.
“But in the overarching context, this is a growing marketplace
and the government’s initiatives are not just to reduce prices
but also to increase access.”  Glaxo is “very open” to acquisitions to boost its
foothold in China, Witty said, after the company bought Nanjing
MeiRui Pharma Co. for about $70 million in cash in December
2010. The Chinese company’s products include a treatment for
enlarged prostate and overactive bladder syndrome.  Prices Overheated  “Of course M&A is part of the agenda for China,” he said.
“One of the reasons we’ve done less M&A in the last 18 months
is because we think valuations are overheated. Certainly that
can be true in China, but it’s less true in China than some
other places, like  India  for example.”  Drug spending in China is forecast to grow at a compound
annual rate of 19 percent to 22 percent in the five years to
2015, reaching as much as $125 billion, according to an  IMS
Health Inc. (RX)  report published in May 2011. That’s the fastest
growth rate globally, according to the Danbury, Connecticut-
based researcher.  China makes up 3 percent of the drugmaker’s sales, ahead of
Germany and  Italy , and is “rapidly coming up the ranks,” Witty
said. The U.S. is the  largest  single market for Glaxo,
accounting for 29 percent of revenue.  “China is clearly one of our top two or three priorities
as a corporation,” said Witty, who has served as an adviser to
the southern Chinese province of  Guangzhou .  Glaxo shares rose 1 percent to 1,404 pence in London
trading.  Local Research  One goal for the company in the next five to seven years is
the introduction of “high-technology” vaccines, such as those
aimed at preventing cancers, according to Witty.  Glaxo has also made a push to conduct more research
locally, hiring 450 researchers in  Shanghai  to identify new drug
targets, including some derived from traditional Chinese
medicine. Despite the government’s current focus on cutting drug
prices, Witty said he expects the company will benefit from
those investments.  “I’m confident we’re going to see that,” Witty said.
“Every dialogue I’ve had with the Chinese government, there’s a
really strong awareness and interest in continued access to
innovation, and a strong understanding about reward for
innovation.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Engle in Beijing at 
 sengle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lena Lee at 
 llee42@bloomberg.net  