-- Glencore CEO Dismisses Calls to Increase Offer for Xstrata
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-03-05T11:47:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/glencore-2011-profit-increases-7-to-4-06b.html
Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  Chief
Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg said the company’s 23 billion-
pound ($36.3 billion) all-share offer for  Xstrata (XTA)  Plc is a
“fair price,” rebuffing calls from some investors to raise it.  The deal “has been negotiated for a long time, fully
accepted by Xstrata’s CEO and unanimously accepted by their
board, so therefore that’s the price,” Glasenberg, 55, said
today in an interview after Glencore announced earnings. “I’m a
little lost why people are expecting us to pay a bigger premium
than what has been put on the table.”  The world’s largest publicly traded commodities supplier
has faced calls from Xstrata  investors  including Schroders Plc,
Fidelity Worldwide Investment and Standard Life Plc to raise its
Feb. 7 offer of 2.8 of its shares for each one in the target.
The transaction would create the fourth-largest mining company.  “It seems to be rather on the stingy side,” Rupert Nathan, head of U.K. fund management at Fat Prophets, told
Linzie Janis and Poppy Trowbridge on Bloomberg Television’s
“Countdown” today. “If you look at the two companies side by 
side, Xstrata’s bringing more to the party. It’s a very good 
deal for Glencore, but not so good for Xstrata.”  Glencore (GLEN) , which already owns 34 percent of Zug,
Switzerland-based Xstrata, declined 1.7 percent to 412.95 pence
at 11:21 a.m. in London. Xstrata, the world’s largest exporter
of thermal coal, fell 2.4 percent to 1,167.5 pence.  ‘Concerted Program’  “Most deals where it’s been a merger of equals have been
done at similar ratios,” said Glasenberg, the biggest
shareholder in Glencore with a 15.8 percent stake. Glasenberg,
who will be deputy CEO to Xstrata’s  Mick Davis  at the combined
company, said he had expected some Xstrata holders to seek a
higher price.  “With a concerted program of Glencore and Xstrata
shareholder meetings now set to follow, we feel expectations of
an increased offer may dampen,” London-based Liberum Capital
Ltd. analysts Dominic O’Kane and Ash Lazenby said today in an e-
mailed note.  Investors holding 16.48 percent of Xstrata can succeed in
voting to block the deal. That’s because the U.K. takeover code
prevents Glencore from voting its stake in Xstrata, putting the
final decision into the hands of the shareholders who control
the rest of the company.  Declined Bonus  “Hopefully, when they look at the numbers and people
review the numbers and they do their workings on the deal, they
will realize that if it is a merger of equals, which it has been
set out as, it’s a fair price,” Glasenberg said. He declined to
say whether the current bid was his final offer.  Glencore’s 2011 net income before exceptional items rose 7
percent to $4.06 billion, the company said today. It declared a
final dividend of 10 cents a share. Sales rose 28 percent to
$186 billion, it said.  Glasenberg, paid a salary of 925,000 pounds, declined to
take a bonus for 2011, he said today by phone. He was entitled
to a bonus of as much as 200 percent of his salary, according to
the prospectus for the company’s May initial public offering. He
also intends to reinvest his entire final dividend of about $109
million in company stock, Glasenberg said.  Second-half profit was $1.61 billion, Glencore said in an
e-mailed statement. That’s a decline of 29 percent from a year
earlier after losses on cotton trading.  Cotton ‘One-off’  Glencore said Feb. 7 that 2011 adjusted earnings before
interest and tax from its agricultural trading unit swung to an
$8 million loss from a $659 million profit a year earlier after
experiencing an “unprecedented cotton market.”  The price of cotton in  New York  sank 37 percent last year,
the biggest annual slump since 2004, as slowing economic growth
eroded consumption and farmers boosted output. Losses on cotton
marketing were a “one-off,” Glasenberg said today.  The loss on cotton drove an 18 percent decline in
Glencore’s adjusted earnings before interest and tax at its
marketing unit to $1.9 billion. It reported a 17 percent gain in
adjusted earnings before interest and tax from its metals and
minerals unit to $3.5 billion.  Emerging market urbanization will continue to increase
commodity intensity per capita as people strive to improve their
 living standards  to a level which is taken for granted in
developed societies,’’ Glasenberg said in the earnings
statement. “ China  will continue to remain the central driving
factor given its existing scale, resources and growth
objectives.”  Chinese Demand  China, the world’s biggest consumer of raw materials, today
pared the nation’s annual economic growth target to 7.5 percent
from an 8 percent goal in place since 2005. Officials will also
aim for inflation of about 4 percent this year, unchanged from
the 2011 goal, according to a state-of-the-nation speech that
Premier  Wen Jiabao  delivered at the annual meeting of the
National People’s Congress in Beijing.  “With close to 50 percent of the world’s commodities
consumed in China, 7.5 percent growth means we’ve still got to
produce around about 3.75 percent growth in all products,”
Glasenberg said in the interview. “That’s going to be pretty
difficult to achieve.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in  London  at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  