-- GM to Sell Pickups With Option to Burn Compressed Natural Gas
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-03-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/gm-to-sell-pickups-with-option-to-burn-compressed-natural-gas.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , the world’s
largest automaker, plans to begin taking orders in April on
pickups that run on both gasoline and compressed natural gas,
potentially reducing costs for users.  The Chevrolet Silverado and GMC Sierra 2500 HD extended-cab
pickups will be offered with a 6.0-liter, V-8 engine that can
“seamlessly” transition between natural gas and gasoline, the
Detroit-based automaker said today in a statement.  A vehicle such as the ones GM will offer can save a driver
$6,000 to $10,000 in fuel costs over a three-year period because
CNG is cheaper than gasoline, Joyce Mattman, director of GM
commercial product and specialty vehicles, said before the
announcement.  “It helps our fleet customers with their total cost of
ownership,” Mattman said. “CNG is unique in that it’s not
attached to the price of oil, so over time it’s maintained a
lower retail price than both gasoline and diesel fuels.”  The bi-fuel option will help expand GM’s customer base for
CNG products, Mattman said.  CNG-only vehicles “are a challenge when you’re using one
specific fuel that doesn’t have infrastructure or support across
the entire country,” Mattman said. “The range-anxiety issue is
very real in this application as well.”  GM didn’t disclose the prices of the vehicles, and any
premium over gasoline-only cars might offset savings on fuel.  Fueling Stations  Natural gas  costs on average one-third less than
conventional gasoline and there are 1,000 CNG-fueling stations
in the U.S., of which about half are open to the public,
according to  Natural Gas Vehicles for America , a trade group
based in  Washington .  Mattman declined to say how many CNG pickups GM plans to
sell.  The CNG vehicles are part of a broader strategy by GM to
offer alternative-fuel vehicles, including the plug-in hybrid
Chevrolet Volt. The Volt can go about 40 miles on electricity
before a gasoline engine kicks in and powers a generator to
recharge the battery. The vehicle is aimed at customers who are
worried about range.  GM began selling CNG cargo vans in 2010. Honda Motor Co.
sells a CNG version of the Civic sedan in the U.S. Chrysler
Group LLC has said it will bring a CNG pickup to the U.S. this
year for fleet customers.  Engine Costs  The additional cost for an engine using natural gas is
$3,000, compared with $3,300 for diesel and $8,000 for an
electric hybrid,  Alfredo Altavilla  , who heads  Fiat SpA (F) ’s Iveco
truck unit, said in September 2010, when Fiat laid out its
natural-gas aspirations. Fiat is the majority owner of Chrysler.  GM said bi-fuel pickups will be offered to both commercial
and retail customers and be delivered late this year.  The truck, which will be covered by GM’s three-year,
36,000-mile warranty and five-year, 100,000-mile powertrain
warranty, will be built in  Fort Wayne ,  Indiana , and sent to a
supplier for installation of the fuel system and tank, the
company said.  The pickups will have tanks that can hold the equivalent of
17 gallons (64 liters) of CNG and a 36-gallon tank of gasoline,
giving the vehicles a combined range of more than 650 miles
(1,000 kilometers), said  Mike Jones , product manager for GM’s
fleet and commercial operations. He declined to break out the
range obtainable on CNG alone.  “The broadest range of usage of this is going to be in the
commercial market,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  