-- Goldman’s Stock Bets Led to Asian Loss in 2011
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-03-06T09:21:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/goldman-s-asia-unit-lost-money-first-time-since-2008-on-soured-stock-bets.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  lost money
in Asia last year for the first time since 2008 as the Wall
Street firm’s stock investments in the region, led by a holding
in China’s biggest bank, backfired.  A 46 percent decline in Asia revenue compared with 2010 was
driven by markdowns on the company’s stakes in public equities,
the firm disclosed in its annual 10-K  filing  with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. The bank lost $103 million
in the region, compared with a $2.08 billion profit a year
earlier, according to the New York-based company.  The figures illustrate how losses in Goldman Sachs’s
Investing & Lending unit, which makes so-called principal
investments with the company’s own money, can surpass the bank’s
revenue from working with clients. Goldman Sachs bankers in  Asia 
won first place among equity underwriters and takeover advisers
last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Last year was the perfect storm for Goldman in Asia as it
was a brutal year for equities in the region,” said Sandy Mehta, chief executive officer of Hong Kong-based Value
Investment Principals Ltd.  He said he expects a rebound this year: “The markets have
gone up, so their equity positions would have rebounded
strongly.”  David Wells , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, declined to
comment.  ICBC Stake  The holding that matters most is Goldman Sachs’s stake in
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , which generated a
$517 million pretax loss in 2011 compared with a $747 million
gain a year earlier, the firm disclosed on Jan. 18. Goldman
Sachs, which acquired its ICBC stock in 2006, doesn’t report
other stock investments in Asia in its annual filing.  ICBC, the world’s fifth-biggest company by market value and
the biggest bank,  climbed  14 percent in  Hong Kong  trading so far
this year, leading analysts to predict big gains for Goldman
Sachs this quarter.  “They’re going to get it all back in the first quarter,”
said  Christopher Wheeler , an analyst at Mediobanca SpA in
 London , who has a “neutral” rating on Goldman Sachs and who
estimates the firm will have a $900 million gain on Beijing-
based ICBC in the first quarter. He described the investment as
“a bloody great prop trade.”  Goldman Sachs has held informal discussions about selling
part of its ICBC stake to raise more than $1 billion, the  South
China Morning Post  reported today, citing unidentified people
familiar with the matter.  Feedback Sought  The company has sought views from institutional investors
including  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest asset manager, and
the money management unit of New York-based  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) , the report said. Feedback hasn’t been positive because some
potential buyers expect ICBC stock to fall, according to the
report.  Goldman Sachs is free to sell its shares because the lockup
period has ended, ICBC President Yang Kaisheng said at a news
conference in Beijing. He declined to say whether the U.S. firm
is selling shares.  Wells, the Goldman Sachs spokesman, declined to comment, as
did Darin Oduyoye, a spokesman for JPMorgan Asset Management,
and Catherine Keary, a spokeswoman for BlackRock.  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets, has
focused on building its Asia business for years. The firm hired
people in  China ,  India  and  Singapore , Goldman Sachs Chief
Operating Officer Gary D. Cohn said in a June investor
presentation.  Market Share  “If you look at our market share in China, it is quite
high and we continuously are very, very well received in
China,” Cohn said at the presentation on June 2. “We think
there is just a huge growth potential in the area.”  Net revenues from Goldman Sachs’s business in Asia fell to
$3.86 billion in 2011 from $7.15 billion a year earlier,
according to the filing. The region lost $231 million before
taxes, compared with a $2.93 billion pretax profit in 2010.  “The decline in net revenues in Asia compared with 2010
primarily reflects lower results in Investing & Lending,
principally due to losses from public equities, reflecting a
significant decline in equity markets in Asia during 2011,”
according to a footnote in Goldman Sachs’s annual 10-K report to
the SEC.  Asian Stocks Decline  Asian stocks fell in 2011, with the  Nikkei 225 Index (NKY) 
dropping 17 percent, Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  tumbling 20
percent, and  Australia ’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  declining 15 percent.
China’s Shanghai Stock Exchange Composite Index fell 22 percent
last year. All those indexes have risen so far in 2012.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of shares has gained 10 percent
this year. It slipped 1.2 percent at 4:55 p.m. in Hong Kong.  Yusuf A. Alireza, who ran Goldman Sachs’s trading in the
region, left in November and has been succeeded by James R. Paradise and Eiji Ueda. Goldman Sachs’s Special Situations
Group, a business that invests the firm’s own money and makes
some loans, has been led since April by Hong Kong-based Jason Brown.  Investments with the company’s own money have historically
been “one of the key drivers” of Asia earnings for Goldman
Sachs, Alireza told  Guy Moszkowski , an analyst with  Bank of
America Corp. , according to an investor note that Moszkowski
wrote almost a year ago. Alireza was named last month to become
chief executive officer of Noble Group Ltd., Asia’s biggest
commodity supplier.  Last year’s Asian stock price declines didn’t have a
similar impact on some of Goldman Sachs’s competitors. London-
based  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , which makes more than 70 percent
of its pretax profit from Asia, last week reported its eighth
annual record earnings and said it plans to hire as many as
2,600 employees.  Standard Chartered  makes most of its profit
from corporate banking and trading, with less than one-quarter
coming from consumer banking.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  