-- IBM’s Watson Gets Wall Street Job After ‘Jeopardy’ Win
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2012-03-06T21:23:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/ibm-s-watson-computer-gets-wall-street-job-one-year-after-jeopardy-win.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM) ’s Watson computer, which beat champions of the quiz show
“Jeopardy!” a year ago, will soon be advising Wall Street on
risks, portfolios and clients.  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-largest U.S. lender, is Watson’s
first financial services client, IBM said yesterday. It will
help analyze customer needs and process financial, economic and
client data to advance and personalize digital banking.  IBM expects to generate billions in new revenue by 2015 by
putting Watson to work. The technology giant has already sold
Watson to health-care clients, helping  WellPoint Inc. (WLP)  and Seton
Health Family analyze data to improve care. IBM executives say
Watson’s  skills  -- understanding and processing natural
language, consulting vast volumes of unstructured information,
and accurately answering questions with humanlike cognition --
are also well suited for the finance industry.  Financial services is the “next big one for us,” said
Manoj Saxena, the man responsible for finding Watson work. IBM
is confident that with a little training, the quiz-show star
that can read and understand 200 million pages in three seconds
can make money for IBM by helping financial firms identify
risks, rewards and customer wants mere human experts may
overlook.  Banks spent about $400 billion on  information technology 
last year, said  Michael Versace , head of risk research at
International Data Corp.’s Financial Insights, which has done
research for IBM.  Cloud-Based Service  Watson the financial assistant will be delivered as a
cloud-based service and earn a percentage of the additional
revenue and cost savings it is able to help financial
institutions realize. Watson, including its work in the health-
care and finance industries, will contribute “a portion” of
IBM’s  target  of $16 billion of analytics revenues in 2015,
Saxena said, and that portion will “have a B next to it.”  Watson may add $2.65 billion in revenue in 2015, adding 52
cents of earnings per share,  Ed Maguire , an analyst at CLSA in
 New York , estimated in a November research note.  IBM, the world’s biggest computer-services provider,
reported  revenue  of $107 billion in 2011 and earnings of $13.06
a share. The company ended 2011 with $11.9 billion in cash.  IBM shares closed above $200 for the first time yesterday,
factoring in stock splits. The stock fell 1.7 percent to $197.26
at the close in New York today.  Language of Wall Street  Watson “can give an edge” in finance, said  Stephen Baker ,
 author  of books The Numerati and Final Jeopardy, a Watson
biography. “It can go through newspaper articles, documents,
SEC filings, and try to make some sense out of them, put them
into a context banks are interested in, like risk.”  In addition to Citigroup, Armonk, New York-based IBM has
been working with financial institutions teaching Watson the
language of  Wall Street , and adding content including regulatory
announcements, news and social media feeds. IBM won’t say which
other institutions Watson is already working with.  “It’s not selling them software, it’s selling them
outcomes,” Saxena said in a phone interview.  Watson offers a “more global” picture by looking beyond
financial data, Saxena said. For example, Watson can comb 10-Ks,
prospectuses, loan performances and earnings quality while also
uncovering sentiment and news not in the usual metrics before
offering securities portfolio recommendations. It can also
monitor trading, news sources and  Facebook (FB)  to help a treasurer
manage foreign exchange risk.  ‘Huge Marketing Edge’  Some of the biggest financial institutions have already
built big data centers. IBM is competing with most other major
technology companies to sell them tools to analyze and use
accumulated information, Versace said.  “Apparently Citi gets it -- analytics is the new core in
competitive banking,” Versace said. “The ability to
efficiently and effectively exploit big data, advanced modeling,
text analytics, in memory and real-time decisions across
channels and operations will distinguish those that thrive in
uncertain and uneven markets, from those that fumble.”  Watson gives IBM “a huge marketing edge” in the race
among tech giants including Google Inc. and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  to
obtain intelligence for businesses by teaching machines to
understand sentences and paragraphs rather than searching for
single words or phrases, said author Baker.  Parts of Watson could already be combined with other IBM
technologies to help banks with regulatory compliance by
surveying internal documents and flagging those that seem amiss,
Baker said. Watson was designed to be loaded with information
rather than grapple with a live streaming feed, making it likely
IBM will partner it with other technologies.  Applications Beyond Banking  Beyond banks and other financial institutions, and
insurance companies, Watson may have applications for
telecommunications companies, and perhaps even call centers,
said Saxena, who joined IBM when it acquired his company Webify
Solutions Inc. in 2006.  IBM plans to use Watson in financial services “mostly for
portfolio risk management, they’re not going to do stock
picking,” CLSA’s Maguire said in a Feb. 17 phone interview.
“They think that Watson can make a difference.” Still, Watson
isn’t perfect. It is weak in languages other than English, and
its processing of social media streams from platforms including
Facebook and Twitter can be sluggish. The lag is “getting
shorter”, Saxena said.  Precise Answers  A year ago last month, about 15 million viewers watched
Watson beat former Jeopardy champions Ken Jennings and Brad
Rutter -- a highly publicized victory in artificial intelligence
that IBM always aimed to apply to the business world.  Watson had to learn how people speak and write, and
evaluate its level of understanding, said  Eric Brown , a member
of the team that built him in an IBM research facility in New
York. Precise answers delivered with confidence distinguish
Watson from Web searches, enabling the technology to advise
real-life decision makers, Brown said.  “I’m sure they use all this stuff internally to manage
their own portfolio,” said CLSA’s Maguire. “IBM’s treasury is
bigger than a lot of trading desks. If they went into asset
management they would kick ass, but that’s not what they do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  