-- Libor Talk Probe, Nuclear Rules, SEC ‘Stats’: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-03-05T13:27:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/libor-talk-probe-nuclear-rules-sec-stats-glaxo-compliance.html
Regulators probing the alleged
manipulation of global  interest rates  are focusing on what
traders involved in setting the benchmark say were routine
discussions condoned by their superiors.  Staff responsible for submissions to the London interbank
offered rate regularly discussed where to set the measure with
traders sitting near them, interdealer brokers and counterparts
at rival banks, according to money-market traders with direct
knowledge of procedures at three firms. The talks became common
practice after money markets froze in 2007, making it difficult
for individual bankers to gauge the cost of borrowing from other
lenders, said the traders, who asked not to be identified
because they weren’t authorized to speak about the subject.  The investigation by regulators in the U.K., U.S. Canada,
Japan and the European Union, is the latest black eye for an
industry smarting from criticism that it caused a global
financial crisis in 2008. The probes have called into question
whether firms can be trusted to set with no regulatory oversight
a rate that is the basis for about $360 trillion of securities
from floating-rate mortgages to commercial loans.  Traders interviewed said there were no rules stopping talks
between employees, or guidelines on how the rate should be set.
The British Bankers’ Association, the London-based lobby group
that publishes the rate, said it has never required banks to
erect Chinese walls between those setting the rate and traders
making bets on the future direction of the measure, leaving it
up to the firms themselves and their regulators.  Spokesmen at lenders that contribute to Libor --  Credit
Suisse AG (CSGN) ,  Societe Generale SA (GLE) ,  Bank of America Corp. ,  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup
Inc. (C) ,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  --
declined to comment on what internal controls they have for
their submissions.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Safety Rules for U.S. Nuclear Plant Outages, Fuel Pools Advance  The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission moved closer to
imposing tougher safeguards at the nation’s reactors, a year
after a disaster in Japan that triggered radiation leaks from a
crippled power plant.  A majority of commissioners led by Chairman Gregory Jaczko
voted to issue three orders for safety steps at 104 operating
reactors. The agency now will complete writing of the rules for
release by March 9, NRC spokesman  David McIntyre  said in an e-
mail. Companies including  Southern Co. (SO)  and  Exelon Corp. (EXC)  would
have until early next year to write a plan and comply by 2016.  A 9-magnitude earthquake and tsunami on March 11 crippled
 Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, causing
explosions, radiation leaks and meltdowns. The NRC and the
nuclear industry have been studying the disaster to bolster U.S.
plant protection from floods, quakes and power failures that
prevent the cooling of atomic waste.  The NRC’s rules would require that plant owners have
sufficient equipment on site to handle blackouts as well as
adequate instruments to monitor pools holding spent fuel during
an emergency.  The commission’s staff expects to prepare the technical
plans for the rules by August, giving reactor owners until
February 2013 to write individual compliance plans and to take
action no later than Dec. 31, 2016.  For more, click here.  Greek Samurai Bond Holders in Japan May Be Exempt From Swap  Holders of 108.7 billion yen ($1.33 billion) of Greece’s
yen-denominated bonds who live in Japan may not be affected by
an agreed debt swap as part of the biggest restructuring in
history.  The swap agreed to on Feb. 24, known as private sector
involvement, or PSI, doesn’t apply to the holders because of the
time limits and Japanese legal requirements,  Shinsei Bank Ltd. (8303) ,
 Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. (MIZC)  and  Aozora Bank Ltd. (8304) , fiscal agents
for the securities in Japan, said in statements March 2. Greece
last week formally offered to exchange some bonds for new notes,
with investors taking a 53.5 percent haircut.  Greece is seeking to reduce national debt in order to meet
the terms of a 130 billion-euro ($173 billion) international
bailout.  “The Greek government isn’t in a position to promise
anything at this moment regarding the treatment of the
aforementioned bonds owned by residents in Japan,” Shinsei Bank
said in the statement. Greece will notify the result of the
current PSI offer to the fiscal agents “without any delay.”  Toshiharu Mashita, a spokesman for Japan’s Financial
Services Agency in Tokyo, said the agency is aware of the
statements, while declining to comment further.  Japan’s Chief Cabinet Secretary Osamu Fujimura said at a
briefing in Tokyo March 2 that he hadn’t heard about the Greek
Samurai bond report.  BlackRock Says Money Funds Would Survive Floating Share Price  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest asset manager, said
money market mutual funds would survive without their stable $1
share price if a reform plan being drafted by regulators
included key additions.  The company, which previously opposed the idea, published a
report March 2 outlining how regulators could make a floating
net-asset value, or NAV, acceptable to investors and managers.  BlackRock, in seeking a workable version of the plan,
stands in contrast with industry peers as the three-year effort
to make money funds more stable approaches a key phase. Boston-
based Fidelity Investments,  Federated Investors Inc. (FII)  in
Pittsburgh and leaders of the fund industry’s main trade group
have rejected the floating NAV idea, saying it would destroy the
$2.6 trillion product.  While a floating NAV will hurt the industry, regulators are
insisting on further reforms and alternative proposals are
unacceptable, the BlackRock report said.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  SEC Accounting of Record Enforcement Year in 2011 Doesn’t Add Up  U.S Securities and Exchange Commission officials have been
citing a jump in the number of enforcement actions last year as
proof that an overhaul of the agency’s investigative force is
bearing fruit. The claim isn’t supported by a detailed
examination of the statistics.  SEC Enforcement Director  Robert Khuzami  said in November
that the unit filed 735 actions in fiscal 2011, “a record-
breaking performance during a period of resource constraints.”
Citing the numbers, SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  told a Washington
conference last week that the agency’s changes “are already
producing record results.” The SEC also noted the record
numbers in justifying its 2013 budget request to Congress.  Still, more than 230, or 31 percent, of the 735 matters
weren’t new. They were so-called follow-on administrative
proceedings that institute penalties in cases that already had
been brought, the examination by Bloomberg News shows.  Excluding those actions, such as barring people who’ve
already been found guilty of fraud from working in the industry,
the SEC filed 499 original cases last year, fewer than the 520
in 2009, the year before the reorganization. In 2009, 144, or 22
percent, of the 664 total actions were follow-on proceedings.  The SEC has been under pressure for more than three years
to show results, while struggling to get additional funding from
Congress. Schapiro is scheduled to defend her budget request
tomorrow before a House panel.  For more, click here.  GlaxoSmithKline Antitrust Probe Dropped by EU Commission  The European Commission  said  it ended an antitrust probe
into  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  over possible collusion to keep cheaper
copies of medicines off the market after a complaint against the
company was withdrawn.  “The Commission examined whether there may have been
violation of EU competition law by GlaxoSmithKline,” Antoine
Colombani, a spokesman for the regulator, said in an e-mail. The
case involving generic-drug producer Synthon BV concerned
“possible anticompetitive agreements or concerted practices in
order to delay or exclude generic competition,” he said.
Colombani declined to elaborate on Synthon’s role in the probe.  The announcement came a day after European Union regulators
 dropped  a similar probe into  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) , the U.K.’s second-
biggest drugmaker, and  Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502) ’s Nycomed unit
over possible collusion to keep cheaper copies of medicines off
the market. That case was brought to a halt because of a lack of
evidence.  Antitrust regulators on both sides of the Atlantic are
focusing on how settlements between companies that make branded
medicines and generic-drug producers might harm consumers.  Glaxo didn’t respond to a voice-mail message and Synthon,
based in Nijmegen, the Netherlands, didn’t respond to an e-mail
seeking comment.  AIJ’s Pension Scandal Resembles Livedoor Affair, GFIA Says  Japanese pension funds may shun smaller hedge funds in
favor of larger ones after the suspension of  AIJ Investment
Advisors Co.  by the nation’s regulator for possibly losing
clients’ money, according to GFIA Pte.  AIJ was suspended on Feb. 24 by Japan’s financial regulator
after it couldn’t account for all of the 185.3 billion yen ($2.3
billion) it managed for clients as of March 2011. Japanese
pensions including those representing unions were among clients
that had money with AIJ, which hasn’t been accused of
wrongdoing.  The suspension of AIJ that sparked the biggest
investigation in the history of Japan’s fund industry resembles
the impact on the hedge fund industry after executives at
Internet provider Livedoor Co. were arrested in 2006 for
fabricating profits, according to a client report by GFIA, which
advises investors seeking to allocate money to hedge funds.
Livedoor raised concerns about the finances of second-tier
companies that many Japan-focused hedge funds had invested in.  “We think this will be the Japanese pension fund
industry’s ‘Livedoor moment,’” said Peter Douglas, principal of
Singapore-based GFIA. “The tap of Japanese pension fund money,
to boutique managers, will turn off.”  Japanese pensions have been trying to diversify their
investments beyond traditional assets such as bonds and equities
into alternative investments that include hedge funds, as they
face challenges funding retirement benefits in an aging society.  For more, click here.  EU to Decide on Future of Google Antitrust Probe Next Month  European Union regulators must decide next month on the
future of their antitrust probe into  Google Inc. (GOOG) , the region’s
competition commissioner said.  Joaquin Almunia said investigators still must define their
objections and clarify concerns over the world’s largest search
engine. Last year, he said that the probe focused on whether the
company is a gatekeeper to the Internet that can influence
users’ behavior.  Google, based in Mountain View, California, is under
growing pressure from global antitrust agencies probing whether
the company is thwarting competition in the market for Web
searches. While  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and partner  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  have
about a quarter of the U.S. Web-search market, Google has almost
95 percent of the traffic in  Europe , Microsoft said in a blog
post last year, citing data from regulators.  The EU is investigating claims of anticompetitive actions
by Google. Microsoft and shopping-comparison site Foundem are
among companies that asked for a review.  Al Verney, a spokesman for Google in Brussels, said the
company continues “to work closely and cooperatively with the
European commission to explain how our business works.”  CBOE Joins Bats Among Exchange Owners Receiving SEC Inquiries  CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE)  became the second exchange operator in a
week to report contact from the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  The owner of the country’s biggest options venue said
regulators are investigating whether it is complying with the
obligations of a self-regulatory organization.  Bats Global
Markets Inc. (BATS) , another U.S. exchange operator, said Feb. 23 that
the SEC asked for information about the development of types of
orders customers use on its venues.  CBOE owns the Chicago Board Options Exchange, founded in
1973 as the first U.S. market for equity derivatives. As self-
regulatory organizations, American exchanges are required to
write rules for their markets, monitor trading and ensure that
they and their customers aren’t breaking securities laws.  The disclosure was made in Chicago-based CBOE’s annual
report from Feb. 28.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to
provide further information. Gail Osten, a spokeswoman for CBOE
Holdings Inc., declined to comment.  “The SEC is investigating CBOE’s compliance with its
obligations as a self-regulatory organization under the federal
securities laws,” CBOE said in the filing. “The company is
cooperating with the investigation, which is ongoing, and is
conducting its own review of its compliance.”  For more, click here.  Courts  Defunct Brokerage’s CEO Fined $10 Million Over CMO Fraud Claims  The former chief executive officer of Brookstreet
Securities Corp. must pay more than $10 million to resolve fraud
claims related to the 2008 financial crisis, the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission said March 2.  Stanley C. Brooks was ordered to pay the penalty by U.S.
District Judge David O. Carter, who ruled in Los Angeles on a
suit stemming from Brookstreet’s sales of collateralized
mortgage obligations to more than 1,000 investors for whom the
securities were unsuitable, the SEC said in a statement. Brooks,
who ran the Irvine, California-based brokerage before it ceased
operations in 2007, was sued in 2009, the SEC said.  The fraud contributed to the firm’s collapse, the SEC said.  The SEC is awaiting a federal court ruling on its claims
against eight Brookstreet brokers tried in Florida last year on
allegations they misrepresented similar securities. The agency
settled with two other brokers in the Florida case.  Gregory J. Sherwin, who was listed in court documents as an
attorney for Brooks, didn’t immediately return a telephone call
seeking comment.  Interviews/Speeches  Bove Says Dodd-Frank ‘Very Negative’ for Small Banks  Richard Bove , an analyst at Rochdale Securities LLC, talked
about the impact of the Dodd-Frank financial regulatory overhaul
law on the U.S. banking industry.  Bove, who spoke with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television’s
“In the Loop,” also discussed the outlook for  Bank of America
Corp.   For the video, click here.  Wilson Says Dodd-Frank Act Created ‘Undue Burdens’  Harry Wilson, a former adviser to President Barack Obama’s
Auto Task Force, talked about the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act
on financial markets.  Wilson, who spoke with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television’s
“In the Loop,” also discussed the race for the Republican
presidential nomination and Obama’s handling of the financial
crisis.  For the video, click here.  Gensler Warns of Risk of Energy ‘Loophole’ in Swap Dealer Rule  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission should limit
the costs of the Dodd-Frank Act’s swap dealer regulation for
commercial companies without creating a loophole for  BP Plc (BP)  and
other energy firms, said Gary Gensler, the agency’s chairman.  The CFTC is preparing to complete a final regulation
defining which banks, hedge funds, energy firms and other
companies will be swap dealers and will face the highest capital
and collateral requirements to reduce risk in the swaps market.
The law is “very clear” and applies to financial and non-
financial companies that are engaging in dealing activity,
Gensler told reporters after a speech at George Washington
University.  In 2000, certain electronic markets were excluded from
commission oversight under the so-called Enron loophole, named
for the energy company that collapsed in late 2001. “I think it
would be a mistake to end up with what would be sort of this
era’s BP loophole,” Gensler said.  The agency may vote on the swap dealer rule on March 20, a
person briefed on the matter said last week.  Comings and Goings  Obama NLRB Recess-Appointment Challenge Rejected by Judge  A judge rejected a challenge to U.S. President Barack
Obama’s recess appointments to the National Labor Relations
Board, calling it a “political dispute.”  U.S. District Judge Amy Berman Jackson in Washington March
2 said the  National Federation of Independent Business  and other
trade groups “attempted to shoehorn a challenge” to the recess
appointments into a case over a rule mandating that companies
notify workers of their rights to form a union.  Karen Harned, executive director of NFIB’s Small Business
Legal Center, said in an e-mailed statement that the group will
appeal the rulings.  The Washington lawsuit is one of at least four labor cases
where parties have argued that the recess appointments were
unconstitutional, thus leaving the board without a quorum to
transact business or enforce regulations.  The case is National Association of Manufacturers v.
National Labor Relations Board, 11-cv-01629, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  EU Weighs Quotas as Firms Fail to Add Female Board Members  The European Union’s justice chief Viviane Reding is
weighing possible quotas to promote more women to board level
after companies made “limited progress” on redressing the
gender imbalance.  Reding last year asked businesses to appoint more women to
company boards. LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA is  among
only 24 companies  that signed to increase female board members
to 30 percent by 2015 and 40 percent by 2020. The European
Commission will now weigh “possible action at EU level,
including legislative measures,” she said in a statement today.
Regulators will decide on their next steps later this year.  Reding is “very disappointed because there have been a lot
of nice words and very few deeds” toward bringing women into
boardrooms, she said in an interview with Bloomberg TV. “The
companies last year told me ‘we will do that by ourselves.’”  British companies may face quotas unless they promote more
women to board level, U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron said
last month, arguing that businesses are “failing” the economy
by not having enough females in senior positions.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 