-- Microsoft Settles Fight Over Uniloc Anti-Piracy Patent
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-03-05T22:59:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/microsoft-settles-fight-over-uniloc-anti-piracy-patent-1-.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the world’s biggest
software maker, said it settled an eight-year legal battle with
a Singapore company over a patent on technology to deter piracy.  Financial terms weren’t disclosed, said David Cuddy, a
Microsoft spokesman. The companies reached a “final and
mutually agreeable resolution” to a dispute begun in September
2003. A trial was under way before a federal jury in Providence,
 Rhode Island , to determine how much Microsoft should pay  Uniloc
USA Inc.  and Uniloc Singapore Private Ltd. for infringing the
patent.  A different jury in 2009 had said Microsoft infringed the
Uniloc patent and awarded $388 million in damages. An appeals
court upheld the verdict and threw out the dollar figure, saying
it was “fundamentally tainted” by the numbers used at trial to
calculate how much Microsoft should pay.  The case concerned a Microsoft product known as
Clearinghouse that activates Microsoft programs including
Windows XP, Office XP, Office 2003 and Windows Server 2003. The
trial that began last week was to determine how much Microsoft
should pay to use the invention through Nov. 11, 2011, according
to court documents.  The patent covers a software registration system to deter
illegal copying. The user enters information, such as a serial
number, to determine whether the program is an authorized
version.  Uniloc has filed suit over the same patent against software
companies in federal court in Tyler,  Texas , including  Symantec
Corp. (SYMC)  and  Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE)  Some of those, including Adobe,
have reached settlement agreements. Uniloc Singapore owns the
patent and Uniloc USA is the exclusive licensee.  The court case is Uniloc USA Inc. v. Microsoft Corp.,
03cv440, U.S. District Court, District of Rhode Island
(Providence).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  