-- Middle East Mystery Slogs, Slapstick Moliere Scores: S.F. Stage
-- B y   S t e p h e n   W e s t
-- 2012-03-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/middle-east-family-drama-slogs-slapstick-moliere-hits-target-s-f-stage.html
Wajdi Mouawad’s ambitious
“Scorched” is an epic drama of family ties across generations,
set during a Middle Eastern civil war.  Simon and Janine, 22-year-old twins, meet at the office of
a notary, Alphonse, for the reading of their mother Nawal’s
will. She divides her estate between the twins and makes a few
odd bequests: a jacket with the number 72 to Janine, a red
notebook to Simon.  Nawal also leaves two envelopes to be delivered to their
father, who is presumed dead, and a brother they never knew
existed. Her requests don’t go down well.  “I don’t owe my mother a single thing,” Simon huffs as he
marches out of the notary’s office. She was distant and
difficult, he says.  Then we begin to peel the layers of one family’s loves,
hates and buried secrets. In flashbacks to the 1970s, we learn
that Nawal grew up in a poor village in an unnamed Middle
Eastern country, perhaps Lebanon, when things were falling
apart. She’s unmarried and pregnant; when her son is born he’s
given away.  Deadly Consequences  At her grandmother’s urging, Nawal moves to the city and
learns to read and write. Then she gets involved in politics,
with deadly consequences.  Intercut with these historical scenes we see Simon, a
would-be boxer, and Janine, a graduate student in mathematics,
as they reluctantly pursue their mother’s final requests. Over
the course of almost three hours, they learn the truth, and it’s
not a pretty thing.  “You simply cannot add to this monstrous mountain of
pain,” Nawal exclaims, when she and a friend have been caught
up in the country’s brutal civil war.  Audiences may feel the same way about this production at
 American Conservatory Theater  in  San Francisco , directed by
Carey Perloff. Though it features talented actors, including
Marjan Neshat as the young Nawal and David Strathairn as
Alphonse, only sometimes are they able to bring the drama to
life. Too often it seems like a forced march through the desert.  With a handsome industrial-chic set by Scott Bradley and
evocative costumes by Sandra Woodall, the show should be a
winner. Yet the script, translated from the French by Linda
Gaboriau, is often more schematic than poetic.  “Scorched” runs through March 11 at 415 Geary St., San
Francisco. Information: +1-415-749-2228;  http://www.act-sf.org .
Rating: **  Moliere’s ‘Doctor’  Timing is everything in comedy, as director Christopher
Bayes and actor Steven Epp expertly demonstrate in their
slapstick reworking of Moliere’s “A Doctor in Spite of
Himself,” across the bay at  Berkeley Repertory Theatre .  It’s a Punch and Judy show, with actors whacking each other
like puppets, accompanied by a two-man band playing a half-dozen
instruments and providing the ba-da-bing. About all that remains
of Moliere is a sketchy plot, on which they hang their jokes.  The aristocrat Geronte needs a doctor because his daughter
Lucinde has become mute, so the wily Martine delivers one in the
form of her husband, the drunken woodsman Sganarelle (played by
Epp). This gives him an opportunity to satirize the incompetence
and vanity of the medical profession, help the goth girl Lucinde
marry her penniless boyfriend, and issue a stream of one-liners
on subjects ranging from Martine’s gigantic breasts to the
current Republican presidential candidates.  It’s all ridiculous, and it works.  “A Doctor in Spite of Himself” runs through March 25 at
2025 Addison St., Berkeley. Information: +1-510-647-2949;
 http://www.berkeleyrep.org .
Rating: ***  (Stephen West is an editor for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this story:
Stephen West in San Francisco at 
 smwest@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 