-- Millennium’s Mauldin Says Europe Must Cut Red Tape to Boost GDP: Tom Keene
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-03-05T21:47:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/millennium-s-mauldin-says-europe-must-cut-regulations-tom-keene.html
Italy,  Spain  and  Greece  should boost
their economies by reducing government regulations as they cut
budget deficits to stem the euro region’s sovereign-debt crisis,
said John Mauldin, president of Millennium Wave Investments LLC.  “Yes, you’ve got to reduce your deficits, but they are not
doing the opposite thing that you have to do when you are
reducing deficits, which is making the private sector more
productive,” he said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “They are not taking steps to
get rid of regulations.”  Euro-area finance ministers kept up pressure on Greece last
week as they authorized the region’s bailout fund to raise money
for a bond exchange, the first step in releasing funds from a
130 billion-euro ($173 billion) rescue package. Separately, the
 European Central Bank  pumped 1 trillion euros into the financial
system, pushing the  risk premium  on Italian 10-year bonds
compared to German securities to the lowest in six months.  With the ECB action, “what’s happening in reality is that
Italian institutions, banks, pension funds, insurance companies,
are buying Italian debt, the same thing with Spain, so the debt
that was on other banks is beginning to isolate to the countries
where it is,” Mauldin said. “I think that’s the seed, the
unintended consequence if you will, of the European Union being
able to fall apart much easier.”  Separately, Mauldin said U.S. lawmakers are coming to the
realization that the nation faces a “true crisis” if the
deficit is not tamed.  “The biggest uncertainty is, are we going to deal with the
deficit in a responsible manner and that’s the middle of 2013,”
Mauldin said. “I think we have to do it by a large number of
spending cuts and reductions and transformation of Medicare.  President  Barack Obama  sent Congress a $3.8 trillion budget
plan Feb. 13 with stimulus spending and tax increases for the
wealthiest Americans, spelling out election-year priorities that
drew immediate Republican opposition.  “The U.S. can do just fine if we recognize what we got to
do and get it done,” Mauldin said. “It’s going to have to take
some bipartisan work.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  