-- Milwaukee Managers Shun Fads to Post Top Returns
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2012-03-05T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/milwaukee-s-home-grown-managers-shun-fads-to-post-top-returns.html
Albert Nicholas, the dean of
Milwaukee money managers, has a theory why the mid-sized city
best known for beer and bratwurst is home to so many top-
performing mutual funds.  “We are not as influenced by fads and trends as people on
the coasts,” said Nicholas, who has run the $1.7 billion
Nicholas Fund since 1969. “We are very independent.”  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  in December named funds run by two
Milwaukee firms -- Artisan Partners LP and Fiduciary Management
Inc. -- as finalists for its domestic stock manager of the year.
The $580 million  FMI Focus Fund (FMIOX)  beat 99 percent of rivals over
the past 15 years, and eight more funds managed near Wisconsin’s
largest city, including the $10.1 billion  Wells Fargo Advantage
Growth Fund (SGROX)  and the $2.4 billion Heartland Value Plus Fund,
outgained at least 94 percent of peers over the past 10 years.  By comparison, only seven mutual funds based and managed in
 Chicago , which has four times the population and five times as
many funds, beat 94 percent of peers over 10 years, Morningstar
data show. Results for funds managed in Chicago for firms based
elsewhere can’t be tracked, the company said.  Many of Milwaukee’s money managers, who collectively
oversee about $57 billion in assets spread across 61 mutual
funds, offer an explanation similar to Nicholas’s for the city’s
success: its isolation from centers of finance. Milwaukee is 733
miles (1,180 kilometers) from  Wall Street  and 89 miles from
Chicago, according to Bloomberg maps.  ‘Fewer Toys’  “I don’t have any neighbors who run  hedge funds ,” said
Andrew Stephens, whose $5.4 billion  Artisan Mid-Cap Fund (ARTMX)  beat 99
percent of peers since its start in 1997. “No one is constantly
talking stocks to me. I am happy here in my ignorance.”  Patrick English, FMI’s chief executive officer, said down-
to-earth Midwesterners are less concerned about “the size of
your house or boat” than their counterparts elsewhere. “It is
easier to focus on research when there are fewer toys to
manage,” he said in an e-mail.  Much of the city’s money-management community can trace its
roots to Nicholas. Known as “Ab,” the 81-year-old Nicholas got
his start at the  University of Wisconsin  in Madison, where he
studied under Frank Graner, a dapper, chain-smoking professor of
finance. At a time when investing was usually taught as a dry
academic subject, Graner was an inspiring lecturer who
emphasized stock-picking, Nicholas said.  ‘The Pied Piper’  Ted Kellner, who started FMI, and William Nasgovitz,
founder of Heartland Advisors Inc., both in  Milwaukee , also
studied under Graner.  “He was the pied piper of investment studies,” Nicholas
said in a telephone interview.  In 1967 Nicholas started an investment firm with Richard Strong, another Wisconsin graduate. Seven years later, Strong
created his own company, Strong Capital Management Inc., whose
mutual funds were acquired in 2004 by Wells Fargo & Co. Kellner,
who replaced Strong at Nicholas Co., founded FMI in 1980. In
1994, Carlene and Andrew Ziegler left Strong to set up Artisan
Partners.  The University of Wisconsin link remains strong today.
About 60 people who work for Milwaukee firms are graduates of
the school’s  Applied Security Analysis Program , which trains
money managers, according to Brian Hellmer, its director.  Real-World Experience  Students in the master’s degree program get real-world
experience by managing $53 million that comes from the
university’s endowment and alumni donations, Hellmer said.
Thomas Ognar, manager of the Wells Fargo Advantage Growth Fund,
and Adam Peck, co-manager of the $2.4 billion  Heartland Value
Plus Fund (HRVIX) , are both graduates of the program. Ognar’s fund beat
99 percent of rivals over the past 10 years and Peck’s beat 97
percent, Morningstar data show.  With a population of 595,000, Milwaukee is America’s 28th
largest city, according to the 2010 U.S. census. In the
mid-1960s, four Milwaukee brewers -- Blatz, Pabst, Schlitz and
Miller -- were among the top 10 beer makers in the world,
according to the  Museum of Beer & Brewing . Miller, which is
owned by London-based  SABMiller Plc (SAB) , is the only one still
operating a brewery in Milwaukee today.  Harley-Davidson Inc., the biggest U.S. motorcycle maker,
and Johnson Controls Inc., the largest U.S. auto supplier, are
both based in Milwaukee.  ‘Live Like Kings’  Most of the mutual fund companies are clustered along the
shore of Lake Michigan in the city’s downtown, which features
wide streets and little traffic. Money managers boast of their
short commutes and affordable homes.  “Professionals can live like kings here compared to Boston
and  New York ,” FMI’s English wrote in an e-mail. A median-
priced single-family house in the Milwaukee metropolitan area
cost $181,000 in the fourth quarter of 2011, according to the
 National Association of Realtors , compared with $325,000 in
Boston and $363,000 in New York.  The climate may not be as big a draw. The average January
temperature is 21 degrees Fahrenheit (-6 degrees Celsius)
compared with 32 in New York.  The Milwaukee firms that run equity funds emphasize
individual stock selection and their own research over seeking
to ride macroeconomic trends.  “It is too risky to make big macro bets,” Wells Fargo’s
Ognar said in an October interview.  Read 10-Ks  In that same interview, he described Apple Inc., his
largest holding, as a cheap stock, even though it had recently
hit a record price of more than $422 a share. Apple closed March
2 at $545.18 in New York trading.  FMI, which manages $12.5 billion, Heartland and Artisan all
stress their bottom-up approach. In an interview in his firm’s
Milwaukee office, Eric Colson, Artisan’s CEO, described his
money managers as people “who like to sit in the corner and
read 10-Ks.”  Artisan, with $65 billion in assets, including funds
managed by teams in other cities and money in separate accounts,
withdrew a planned  initial public offering  in December, citing
market conditions. One of the company’s value investing teams,
based in Atlanta, won Morningstar’s award for domestic stock
manager of the year in 2011.  Heartland’s Nasgovitz called himself a disciple of  Benjamin Graham , the legendary investor who was Warren Buffett’s
professor at New York’s Columbia University. Like Graham,
Nasgovitz looks for companies with little debt selling at a
discount to their long-term value.  Bucking Trends  Heartland Value Plus attracted $770 million in 2011,
according to Morningstar, bucking a trend that saw investors
pull $135 billion last year from funds that buy U.S. stocks,
according to data from the Investment Company Institute, a
Washington-based trade association.  The $5.1 billion  FMI Large Cap Fund (FMIHX) , whose managers were
also nominated for Morningstar’s top award for 2011, gained $791
million. Ognar’s Wells Fargo fund won deposits of $4.5 billion,
which ranked it among the 20 most popular U.S. mutual funds,
Morningstar data show.  On the bond side, Lyle Fitterer’s $2.7 billion  Wells Fargo
Advantage Municipal Bond Fund (SXFIX)  beat 99 percent of rivals over the
past 10 years, Morningstar data show. After the municipal market
sold off in December 2010 following analyst  Meredith Whitney ’s
prediction that there would be “hundreds of billions” of
dollars of defaults, Fitterer said her forecast was off the
mark.  ‘Latest Sizzle’  “I am not saying there won’t be defaults,” Fitterer said
in a January 2011 interview. “But I have a hard time getting to
$10 billion, let alone $50 or $100 billion.”  Fitterer’s fund gained 10 percent last year as defaults
totaled $2.6 billion, excluding tax-exempt debt in AMR Corp.’s
bankruptcy, according to Matt Fabian, a managing director at
Concord, Massachusetts-based Municipal Market Advisors.  The $754.7 million  BMO Intermediate Tax-Free Fund (MITFX)  beat 99
percent of competitors in the past five years, Morningstar data
show. In December 2010,  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  agreed to buy
Milwaukee-based Marshall & Ilsley Corp., the fund’s owner, for
about $4.1 billion in stock.  The $1.4 billion  Baird Core Plus Bond Fund (BCOIX) , managed by Mary Ellen Stanek, beat 94 percent of rivals over 10 years. In 2008,
her $1.2 billion  Baird Intermediate Municipal Bond Fund (BMBIX)  beat 99
percent of similar funds by sticking to higher-quality issues,
she said.  “We are hard-working Midwesterners here,” Stanek,
president of Baird Funds Inc., said in an interview. “We may
not always have the latest sizzle, but that sizzle often doesn’t
add value.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  