-- India Bans Cotton Exports Until Further Notice; Futures Rally in New York
-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a   a n d   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2012-03-05T09:05:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/india-bans-cotton-exports-until-further-notice-futures-rally-in-new-york.html
India , the world’s second-biggest
cotton exporter, halted shipments until further notice,
according to the Commerce Ministry. Futures rallied, and the
country’s cotton association called for the curb to be reviewed.  “Export against registration certificates already issued
will also not be allowed,” the ministry said in a notice posted
on its  website . No reason for the ban was given in the statement,
which was dated today.  The country is poised to ship 6.25 million bales of 480
pounds each in 2011-2012 from a world total of 37.42 million
bales, the U.S. Department of Agriculture estimates. The U.S. is
set to be the biggest exporter with 11 million bales. Farm
Minister  Sharad Pawar  said that he was unaware of the ban when
questioned by reporters, declining to comment further.  “It is a regrettable step,” Dhiren Sheth, president of
the Cotton Association of India, said by phone from  New Delhi .
“The export ban was sudden. I don’t know the reasons. I hope
the government reviews the decision immediately.”  The May-delivery contract jumped as much as 4.5 percent to
92.23 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S., the biggest intraday
advance since Dec. 28, and traded at 91.19 cents at 5:01 p.m. in
 Singapore . Prices in  New York  are still down 57 percent in the
past year after farmers boosted output to a record. The
stockpile-to-use ratio of more than 55 percent is “sharply
higher” than the past two seasons, the USDA said.  ‘No Need’  “There was no need to ban cotton exports,” said Prem Malik, deputy chairman of Confederation of Indian Textile
Industry. “Probably the government was concerned about the
quantity that was already registered to be exported. The
registered quantity was more than the government’s estimate of
exportable surplus,” he said by phone from Mumbai.  About 12 million bales of 170 kilograms (375 pounds) each
had been registered for export and about 8.3 million bales had
been shipped, said Malik.  “Probably they were worried that there will be less stock
available than required in the country,” he said. “This may
have prompted them to put a ban on cotton exports.”  The amount shipped is almost the same as an export estimate
of 8.4 million bales from Textiles Commissioner A.B. Joshi on
Jan. 24 after a meeting of the Cotton Advisory Board. The
country shipped 7 million bales a year earlier, he said.  Cotton production in India will be lower than earlier
forecast after diseases cut yields in the states of Maharashtra
and  Andhra Pradesh , Joshi said then. The harvest may reach 34.5
million bales of 170 kilograms each in the year that began Oct.
1, against 35.6 million bales estimated on Nov. 15, he said.  “Farmers are going to take the biggest hit,” said Sheth
from the Cotton Association of India.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratik Parija in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net ;
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  