-- Minmetals May Need Deal a Year to Grow Fourfold, CEO Says
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-03-06T14:16:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/minmetals-may-need-deal-a-year-to-grow-fourfold-ceo-says.html
Minmetals Resources Ltd. (1208) , the
publicly traded unit of China’s biggest metals trader, said it
may have to make an acquisition annually to meet its target of
expanding the company’s market value fourfold within five years.  Minmetals is looking for deals in Africa, the Americas and
the Asia Pacific region, Chief Executive Officer Andrew Michelmore said in an interview yesterday in Toronto. Hong Kong-
based Minmetals will consider copper, zinc, nickel and bauxite
assets, he said.  “We always have to be working on the basis that we are
going to do one per year,” Michelmore said, referring to
acquisitions. “If we are going to achieve our growth target we
will have to do something like that.”  Minmetals in September agreed to buy  Anvil Mining Ltd. (AVM) , an
Australian producer of copper in Africa, for C$1.3 billion ($1.3
billion). When completed, the takeover will be the Chinese
company’s largest, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Minmetal’s C$6.04 billion offer for copper miner Equinox
Minerals Ltd. in April was trumped by Toronto-based  Barrick Gold
Corp. (ABX)   The Anvil and Equinox offers give an “indication” of the
price range for deals Minmetals will consider, said Michelmore,
59, who was previously CEO of Australian mining companies WMC
Resources Ltd. and  OZ Minerals Ltd. (OZL)   ‘Top Three’ Target  Expanding will help Minmetals diversify the commodities it
produces and create “economies of scale,” he said.  “Our target is to be in the top-three of the mid-tiers
within three to five years,” he said.  “We need to be four times the size we are at the moment,”
said Michelmore, who was in Toronto to attend to annual
Prospectors & Developers Association of Canada convention. That
can’t be done with “piecemeal” acquisitions, he said.  Minmetals, a unit of state-owned  China  Minmetals Corp.,
isn’t interested in buying gold companies or oil and natural-gas
assets, Michelmore said.  Minmetals dropped 4.6 percent to HK$4.11 at the close in
 Hong Kong .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  