-- Insider Wine Sleuth Hunts Bargains for Online Sales: Elin McCoy
-- B y   E l i n   M c C o y
-- 2012-03-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/insider-wine-sleuth-rimmerman-seeks-bargains-for-internet-sale-elin-mccoy.html
Jon Rimmerman, aka the Garagiste, is
late. He’s sending out his daily online wine offer from his
BlackBerry in his room at  New York ’s new Hotel Americano.  It’s a 2006 Ansata from biodynamic producer  Marc
Kreydenweiss  priced at $6.99. This red usually goes for two to
three times as much. The bottles sell out in an hour.  Once a day, Seattle-based Rimmerman, 45, pitches one to
several little-known, quirky, artisanal and often stellar
collectible wines from small producers in an e-mail that
includes no dramatic photos of people, vineyards or labels.
Since the mid-1990s, he’s relied on prose alone to evoke a wine,
a place, and the vicarious thrill of being a wine treasure
hunter.  “I want to give people a dream,” he says as we head to
the hotel’s restaurant.  His garb is almost zany: lavender
sweater, black and white plaid jacket, worn green shoulder bag.
Messy grey curls and long sideburns add to a rebel look.  Over prosciutto and mozzarella sandwiches, he explains how
he managed to take a $500 advance on his VISA card to a wine
business that generates $25 to $30 million a year from his
23,000-square-foot (2,136 square meter) temperature- and
humidity-controlled  Seattle  warehouse. His 120,000 faithful fans
around the world include old friends, violinist Itzhak Perlman,
and plenty of people in the wine industry. He doesn’t advertise,
has no partners and says he’s never had a business loan. For
many years he had no website (now  http://www.garagistewine.com ).  Finding Nirvana  Rimmerman likes to compare his company to Seattle’s indie
record label Sub Pop, which brought the world the grunge band
Nirvana.  “We try to find the important artists in the wine world
before the rest of the world does,” he says. He’s been known to
e-mail offers of his discoveries from the middle of a vineyard.  On the road hunting wines for four months every year,
Rimmerman has just rolled in from  Virginia .  “It’s the most exciting emerging wine region in the
country,” he says. Next stop,  France .  We sample the wine Rimmerman is offering today, March 5. It
is a deliciously complex 2008 Domaine Labet Fleur de Marne La
Bardette chardonnay ($25) from a young producer in the Jura. It
tastes of salt and stones and seems an ultimate wine for
seafood.  Rimmerman described a previous vintage as “pulverized
fossils and calcium carbonate caught in the most elaborate
intertwined dance with elegant and feminine citric fruit.”  Early Start  The native Chicagoan’s path to wine and food started at the
age of 5, with the smell of a Cotes-du-Rhone and the taste of
Steak Diane.  A summer construction job on Starbucks’ first Midwest
retail shop while he was in law school introduced him to company
boss  Howard Schultz  and how to market and conceptualize a
product. He gave up law, moved to Seattle, and sourced food
products in  Europe  for a gourmet grocery business.  When he brought back local wines and faxed stories about
them to a couple of dozen friends, they wanted to buy.
Garagiste, named for a group of revolutionary Bordeaux
winemakers, grew from there, helped by the new power of the
Internet.  One of Rimmerman’s finds was cult wine figure Frank
Cornelissen.  “At a trattoria outside Naples, I heard about this guy who
was out of his mind making natural wine on the ash and rock
slopes of Mt. Etna,” Rimmerman recalls. He headed south to
Sicily in his tiny rental Fiat. Cornelissen, in the middle of
harvest, wouldn’t see him.  Refrigerated Truck  Eventually backpacking friends sleeping on Cornelisson’s
couch convinced the winemaker he should talk to Rimmerman. He
tasted, bought, and then sent the wines to the nearest port in a
refrigerated pharmaceutical truck. The offer was the first time
Cornelissen’s wines were sold commercially in the U.S.  During the late 1990s dot-com bubble, dozens of online wine
sites burst on the scene, only to bite the dust a few years
later. Others, like  Wine.com , morphed from version to version,
shedding bosses like so many snake skins. The economic downturn
brought a new wave of “flash sites” offering surplus
inventories of expensive labels at discounts of 30 to 70
percent.  Sites like  WinesTilSoldOut , founded in 2006, superficially
resemble  Garagiste . They too send out an email offer of one
well-priced wine for a limited time, no more than one day.
During Winestilsoldout’s quarterly “Cheapskate Wednesday” on
Feb. 15, each offer was up for only 15 minutes. Some labels sold
out in 45 seconds. The day’s take? More than $1 million from
87,000 bottles.  Personal Vision  WinesTilSoldOut, and newer U.S. sites like  Gilt Taste ,
Vitis, and  Lot 18 , which started in the U.K. last week, don’t
have the singular personal vision, philosophy of wine, and
evocative stories of Garagiste.  “I have to stay ahead; I have to offer things no one else
has,” says Rimmerman.  Tomorrow, he has the 2009 Fattoria Galardi Terra di Lavoro
Roccamonfina, a rich seductive red from Campania, where grapes
grow in the volcanic rocks of Vesuvius. It goes on sale for $55.  I feel the twitch his customers are addicted to: Can I pass
this up?  Information:  http://www.garagistewine.com/   ( Elin McCoy  writes on wine and spirits for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  To contact the writer of this story:
Elin McCoy at  elinmccoy@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 