-- Lira Drops to 1-Month Low as Yields Rise on Inflation Above 10%
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-03-05T16:32:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/lira-drops-to-1-month-low-as-yields-rise-on-inflation-above-10-.html
The lira headed for a one-month low
and yields rose as inflation remained at twice the central
bank’s target even after declining to 10.4 percent in February
and as China reduced its economic growth target.  The lira weakened 0.2 percent to 1.7717 per dollar at 5:37
p.m. in Istanbul, on course for its lowest level since Jan. 31.
 Yields (BENCH)  on the two-year benchmark debt climbed one basis point,
or 0.01 percentage point, to 9.25 percent, their third day of
advances, according to a  Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS (TEBNK)  index.  The  inflation rate  fell for the first time in five months,
reaching 10.4 percent in February from a three-year peak of 10.6
percent a month earlier, the statistics agency in Ankara said on
its website today. The central bank’s target for 2012 inflation
is 5 percent. Emerging-market assets retreated after China set
the lowest economic growth target since 2004 at 7.5 percent and
euro-area manufacturing and services data missed estimates.  “The CPI confirms the central bank has to maintain a tight
monetary policy to achieve the inflation target,”  Murat Toprak ,
chief currency strategist for  Europe , the  Middle East  and Africa
at HSBC Holdings Plc in London, said in e-mailed comments.  Inflation surged last year when the lira weakened 18
percent in the biggest depreciation worldwide, prompting central
bank governor Erdem Basci to adopt a monetary policy of variable
 interest rates  to squeeze liquidity and help manage volatile
capital flows. The Turkish currency has strengthened 6.7 percent
this year, the fifth-best performance among emerging markets in
Europe, Africa and the Middle East, as the country’s current-
account deficit narrowed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  