-- Iran Agreed With IAEA’s June Target Before Talks Became Stuck on Security
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2012-03-05T16:01:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/iran-agreed-with-iaea-s-june-target-before-talks-became-stuck-on-security.html
Iran’s discussions last month with
inspectors from the  International Atomic Energy Agency  broke up
without agreement because of the Persian Gulf country’s concerns
about a wave of assassinations.  The International Atomic Energy Agency circulated a March 2
Iranian letter today at its quarterly board meeting in Vienna.
The five-page restricted document, printed on agency letterhead
and obtained by Bloomberg News, contains notes from Iran’s Feb.
20-21 meeting with IAEA inspectors in Tehran.  The document details for the first time the precise points
on which Iran and the IAEA inspection team failed to concur.
According to the document, the inspectors and Iran agreed that
both sides sought to clear up nuclear-weapons allegations by
June. They remained divided over how to reach the goal.  “We have intensified our talks with  Iran ,” IAEA Director
General Yukiya Amano told journalists in Vienna. “I continue to
hope that I can report something positive as an outcome from our
endeavors and Iran’s endeavors to the June board of governors.”  The “document describes issues and topics to be addressed,
and associated modalities,” according to the copy, which shows
Iran’s objections and additions to the IAEA original. Both sides
agreed that actions should “be undertaken before the June 2012
IAEA board of governors, if possible.”  Probe Limits  The IAEA inspectors visiting Tehran were bogged down by
Iran’s security demands, according to the document. Tehran,
which has blamed the IAEA for unintentionally facilitating
nuclear-scientist assassinations through sloppy information
security, wants inspectors to take steps to protect the
country’s facilities and people.  For example, Iran wants inspectors to limit themselves to
probing specific, pre-defined issues during any visit, according
to the document. The letter shows Iran remained open to letting
IAEA inspectors visit the Parchin military complex, where the
agency says it has “credible” evidence showing engineers
worked on high-explosives testing for a nuclear device.  Iranian IAEA Ambassador Ali Asghar Soltanieh declined to
comment today in Vienna.  Iran did offer inspectors access to another purported
atomic facility in the western province of Marivan, where the
IAEA reported in November that “large scale high-explosive
experiments” linked to nuclear weapons were conducted. Amano
said on Feb. 22 that inspectors were denied access to Iran’s
Parchin military complex without mentioning the Marivan offer.  ‘Parchin Was Priority’  “Parchin was the priority for us,” he said today. “We
prepared for more than 40 days for verification and access to
the Parchin site.  ‘‘The alternative site was offered,’’ he said. ‘‘It was
only a few hours before our departure that we learned that Iran
had in mind Marivan. With that we couldn’t do a serious job.’’  The high-level IAEA team’s decision not to visit Marivan
wasn’t surprising, according to  Robert Kelley , a nuclear
scientist and former UN chief weapons inspector in  Iraq .  ‘‘IAEA was caught unprepared to visit a key nuclear
weapons-development site at Marivan,” he said in an e-mailed
reply to questions. “It is unlikely they had the tools like
uranium sampling kits or preparatory activities such as detailed
studies of satellite images that would guarantee mission
success.”  Today’s IAEA gathering preceded talks between President
 Barack Obama  and Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu . The
two leaders are meeting today in  Washington , where they will
show solidarity over how to confront  Iran’s nuclear program  as
Obama asked  Israel  to help tone down “loose talk of war.”  Iran, which is entering the ninth year of the IAEA probe,
insists that its nuclear program is peaceful. Supreme Leader
 Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  said on Feb. 23 that possession of
nuclear weapons is a “big crime.” The U.S. and its allies
suspect Iran may be trying to build an atomic bomb.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  