-- U.S. Service Industries Unexpectedly Expand to a One-Year High: Economy
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2012-03-05T21:08:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/ism-services-gauge-in-u-s-rose-for-february.html
Service industries  in the U.S.
unexpectedly grew in February at the fastest pace in a year,
showing further strength for the biggest part of economy.  The Institute for Supply Management’s  non-manufacturing 
index climbed to 57.3 from 56.8 in January, the Tempe, Arizona-
based group’s data showed today. Readings above 50 signal
expansion, and the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was 56.  A sustained pickup in the industries that make up almost 90
percent of the economy would bolster the expansion, creating
employment opportunities that will help sustain household
demand. At the same, rising gasoline prices represent a risk to
a recovery that Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  last
week said was “uneven and modest.”  “The momentum that we’ve been generating in the economy is
starting to broaden,” said Robert Dye, chief economist at
Comerica Inc. in  Dallas . “As we get stronger job growth, we’ll
see more lift to the economy in the second half of the year.”  Another report today showed  orders  to U.S. factories
decreased in January for the first time in three months.
Bookings fell 1 percent after a revised 1.4 percent gain in
December that was larger than previously estimated, according to
figures from the Commerce Department. The median of 61
economists’ projections in a Bloomberg survey called for a 1.5
percent decline.  Stocks fell, giving the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index its
biggest two-day drop since January, as  China  reduced its
economic growth target. The  S&P 500  declined 0.4 percent to
1,364.33 at the close in  New York , after a 0.3 percent fall on
March 2.  Orders and Employment  The ISM non-manufacturing survey’s measure of new orders
increased to 61.2, a one-year high, from 59.4. A gauge of
business activity was the strongest in 12 months. The employment
gauge fell to 55.7 from 57.4, the best back-to-back readings
since early 2006.  Estimates of the 66 economists in the Bloomberg survey for
the ISM services figure ranged from 54 to 59. The report covers
industries ranging from utilities and construction to retailing
and finance. A March 1 report by the group showed manufacturing
expanded in February at the slowest pace in three months as
orders and employment cooled.  Elsewhere today, euro-area services output shrank more than
forecast in February, led by Italy and  Spain , as the region’s
economy struggled to rebound after contracting in the fourth
quarter. U.K. services growth also cooled last month, according
to a separate report.  In  Asia ,  India ’s services industries expanded at a slower
pace in February, according to an index released today by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit.  ‘Moderate Growth’  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  is among American service
companies seeing a pickup in demand.  “For 2012, what we’re looking for is continued stable but
moderate growth in the U.S.,” Kurt Kuehn, chief financial
officer at UPS, said at a Feb. 15 transportation services
conference. “We think the U.S. economy is on the mend. We think
the downside risk in the U.S. is lowered.”  Still, higher fuel costs are straining household budgets,
restraining purchases of other goods. Gasoline prices climbed to
$3.77 a gallon on March 4, up from a 10-month low of $3.21 on
Dec. 20, according to AAA, the nation’s largest motoring
organization.  Personal spending after adjusting for inflation failed to
grow in the three months ended in January, the Commerce
Department said last week.  Rising fuel prices are a concern for businesses as well.
Today’s ISM report showed a gauge of prices paid climbed to 68.4
from 63.5. Fourteen non-manufacturing industries reported higher
prices paid, while two said costs were lower.  “There’s still a lot of cost pressure out there,”  Anthony Nieves , chairman of the ISM survey, said on a conference call
from Beverly Hills,  California . Prices are rising “across the
board” through the economy, he said.  Unemployment Rate  At the same time, an improving job market has boosted
 consumer confidence  and may spur spending. The  unemployment rate 
in February held at a two-year low of 8.3 percent, and the
economy generated 210,000 jobs, according to economists’
estimates before the March 9 jobs report from the Labor
Department. It would mark the third straight month of payroll
gains in excess of 200,000.  The economy grew at a 3 percent annual pace in the fourth
quarter after a 1.8 percent gain in the prior three months, the
Commerce Department reported Feb. 29. The growth rate excluding
a jump in inventories was 1.1 percent.  Consumer spending  rose at
a 2.1 percent pace last quarter.  “The recovery of the  U.S. economy  continues, but the pace
of expansion has been uneven and modest by historical
standards,” Bernanke told lawmakers during his semiannual
testimony to Congress on Feb. 29. “The job gains in recent
months have been relatively widespread across industries,” he
said. “However, the fundamentals that support spending continue
to be weak.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  