-- Isovoltaic Said to Start 45% Stake Sale After Failed Solar IPO
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-03-05T12:51:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/isovoltaic-said-to-start-45-stake-sale-after-failed-solar-ipo.html
Isovoltaic AG (ISO) , an Austrian solar
developer, started the sale of a 45 percent stake as it seeks an
alternative to last year’s failed initial public offering,
according to a person with knowledge of the process.  The company has sent information to potential buyers and
requested indicative offers in a month, said the person, who
declined to be identified because the matter is confidential.
The Lebring-based developer aims to complete the sale by the end
of June, the person said.  Isovoltaic, which makes protective backing for solar
panels, halted its 378 million-euro ($498 million) IPO in April
as  Europe ’s debt crisis sapped investor demand. The company,
owned by Austrian industrialist Stanislaus Turnauer, had been
planning to sell a 45 percent stake in the offering.  Klaudia Schober, a spokeswoman for Isovoltaic, declined to
comment. In January she acknowledged that a stake may be sold to
outside investors and said talks were at a “very early stage.”  “Obvious acquirers would be Chinese firms,” said Jenny Chase, head of solar research at Bloomberg New Energy Finance.
She cited  China ’s 12th Five-Year Plan, a program of social and
economic-development initiatives that includes targets for
saving energy and curbing  greenhouse gases  through 2015.  Chinese Suitors  The plan “calls for China to have more of the module value
chain in China through partnerships with international firms,”
Chase said by e-mail. “There are numerous Chinese companies
making backsheets which might want to buy into an international
brand.”  Isovoltaic supplies six of the 10 biggest solar-module
makers, including China’s  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP)  and  Trina
Solar Ltd. (TSL)  The company had 120.7 million euros in sales in 2010,
68 percent of which were generated in  Asia , its latest filings
show. It had net income of 24.8 million euros that year.  Isovoltaic’s presence in China doesn’t mean it will sell a
stake to a customer because such a deal could affect sales to
competitors, Chase said.  Corporate solar acquisitions rose to $17.9 billion in 2011
from $13.1 billion a year earlier, according to data compiled by
London-based New Energy Finance. The biggest deals of 2011 were
China National Bluestar Group Co.’s acquisition of Norwegian
silicon maker Elkem AS for $2 billion and French energy company
Total SA’s takeover of California-based SunPower for $1.6
billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  