-- Justice Can Be Done in Bear Stearns Case: William Cohan
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2012-03-05T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/justice-can-still-be-done-in-bear-stearns-case-william-d-cohan.html
One of the most glaring travesties
of the financial crisis has been the failure of the U.S. justice
system to establish the truth and punish the responsible. In at
least one case, it’s not too late to do the right thing.  U.S. District Judge Frederic Block should reject the
preposterous proposed civil settlement between the Securities
and Exchange Commission and  Ralph Cioffi  and  Matthew Tannin ,
former Bear Stearns hedge-fund managers. The public deserves to
see this case go to trial.  At a hearing on Feb. 13, Block, a longtime federal jurist
in the Eastern District of  New York , referred to the proposed
settlement as “chump change.” He’s right. Investors lost at
least $1.6 billion in two hedge funds the men managed at Bear
Stearns Asset Management -- in part, the SEC alleges, thanks to
the managers’ misleading statements. For this, Cioffi and Tannin
would pay a total of only $1.05 million. Worse, the two men
would, of course, neither admit nor deny guilt for their
actions.  Incredibly, the SEC has argued in recent court filings and
in the public statements of its chairman,  Mary Schapiro , that
the settlement is the best it can do. Its position simply
doesn’t jibe with the claims in its original 2008 civil
 complaint : that the two men “misrepresented the extent to which
the funds had invested in securities backed by subprime
mortgages,” that Cioffi “did not tell investors about a
redemption of a portion of his personal investment” in one of
the funds, that Cioffi “misrepresented the level of investor
redemption requests,” that Tannin “misrepresented” whether he
was going to add to his personal investment in one of the funds,
and that, during an investor call, Tannin “misrepresented the
prospects” of the funds “going forward.”  Adequate and Reasonable  In a Feb. 21 letter to Block, the SEC said it was willing
to stop pursuing these charges in favor of the “fair, adequate
and reasonable” $1.05 million settlement because it represents
the “scope of relief” the SEC would be “likely” to obtain if it
were successful in court, “taking into account the litigation
risks” and the “willingness of Cioffi and Tannin to consent to a
judgment and not deny the allegations any further.”      In other
words, despite piles of powerful evidence on its side of the
ledger, the SEC was afraid it would lose if it decided to try
the case in Block’s court. So rather than attempt to make its
case -- to show just how deceitful the two men had been about
what was going on at the funds -- the SEC, which is charged with
protecting investors, decided to fold its tent and go home.  At a public meeting on Feb. 22, Schapiro further defended
the SEC’s decision to settle cases rather than try them in
court: The settlements “serve the purpose of putting the rest of
the industry on notice about conduct we believe violates the law
and can lead to hundreds of millions of dollars in fines, which
I don’t think any firm enjoys paying, or seeing their name
highlighted as somebody who’s violated the law.”  I am utterly missing the deterrent value of the SEC’s
proposed settlement with Cioffi and Tannin. Indeed, a recent
investigation by the  New York Times  demonstrated that such
settlements don’t deter Wall Street recidivism.  As for the practice of allowing defendants to settle
without admitting or denying guilt, Schapiro claimed that
without that provision “people won’t settle with us.”  To which I say, “Fantastic!”  Gory Details  Cases of wrongdoing at the highest levels of Wall Street
should not be settled. The SEC -- and other enforcement bodies,
such as the  Justice Department  -- should try them in court, let
the facts come out in their full and gory details and then let
the chips fall where they may. At least with a trial, the
American public would finally have access to the piles of
internal documents, witness testimony and other evidence that
can help us make sense of how and why one major  Wall Street  firm
after another collapsed, why no one has been held accountable
and how we can prevent something similar from happening again.  The settlements, on the other hand, accomplish absolutely
nothing other than reminding us once again that the SEC is not
working in the public’s interest, despite all its protests to
the contrary. They merely allow the SEC to come up with some
happy talk about how many cases it is bringing against Wall
Street and how great its track record is.  We need facts. We need substance. We need explanations for
what happened. We need accountability. We don’t need any more
mind-numbing pabulum about why a minuscule financial settlement
-- where the defendants are absolved of any responsibility for
their actions -- is somehow in our best interest.  Frankly, we need a new SEC.  (William D. Cohan, a former investment banker and the
author of “Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the
World,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at 
 mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 