-- Ikea’s Kamprad Is Europe’s Richest in Billionaire Index
-- B y   R o b e r t   L a F r a n c o
-- 2012-03-05T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/kamprad-is-europe-s-richest-in-billionaire-index.html
The IKEA retail empire Ingvar
Kamprad started almost 70 years ago has amassed a fortune that
Bloomberg values at more than $40 billion and makes him the
richest man in  Europe , and one of the world’s five wealthiest
men.  The Bloomberg Billionaires Index, a daily ranking of the
world’s richest people, shows that Kamprad maintains control
over the business through a network of holding companies and
legal entities established more than 30 years ago.  The valuation is based on  IKEA’s annual financial
performance report . The company said it earned net profit of $4
billion in 2011, had operating income of nearly $5 billion and
gross profit of more than $15 billion on $34 billion in sales.  The results were then compared against eight publicly
traded U.S. companies including  Target Corp. (TGT) ,  Bed Bath & Beyond
Inc. (BBBY) , and Pier 1 Imports Inc., as well as Wim Plast Ltd., a
global furniture retailer based in Mumbai, and Hong Kong-based
Royale Furniture Holdings Ltd.  Bloomberg took the market value, preferred equity, and debt
less cash and equivalents to generate the enterprise values of
these companies. It then calculated their  enterprise value-to-
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization, 
enterprise value-to-ebit, enterprise value-to-sales, and price-
to-earnings ratios. Two classes of comparison were used, one to
reflect IKEA’s size and another to capture the specifics of
furniture retailers. An average multiple of each grouping was
then applied to IKEA’s 2011 performance.  Discount for Complexity  The calculation, which also applies a 20 percent liquidity
discount due to the complex ownership structure Kamprad has
created, values IKEA at $36 billion.  Kamprad declined to comment for this article, referring
queries to his representatives. They said he isn’t the owner of
the company he founded as a local and mail-order business in
1943 in the Småland region of  Sweden , after relinquishing his
shares in IKEA in the 1980s.  “Ingvar Kamprad is not interested in money and that is
clear from the way he has structured the ownership of IKEA,”
said Per Heggenes, spokesman for Stichting INGKA Foundation, a
Dutch entity that owns all the shares in INGKA Holding BV, which
in turn owns about 90 percent of IKEA stores worldwide.  Supporting Design  In 1982, Kamprad gave his IKEA stake to the foundation, for
“supporting innovation in the field of architectural and
interior design,” according to its founding statute registered
with the Chamber of Commerce in Amsterdam. Seven years later he
established a second foundation, the Interogo Foundation, based
in Liechtenstein, which was given ownership of the rights to the
IKEA concept.  A second component of Kamprad’s wealth is the Ikano Group,
the family’s private investment vehicle, based in  Luxembourg ,
which adds more than $2 billion. Ikano is chaired by Peter Kamprad, one of Ingvar Kamprad’s three sons, and runs  consumer
credit , asset management, real estate management and insurance
businesses, and owns four IKEA franchise stores in  Asia .  IKEA’s structure has been the subject of press scrutiny
during the past decade, including an hour-long documentary by
Assignment Investigate, a news program that aired on Sweden’s
SVT television network last year, as well as a 2006 analysis in
The Economist newspaper.  Swedish Taxes  Kamprad moved out of his homeland in the 1970s in an effort
to keep the company private, something he said he couldn’t do
with the tax regime in Sweden at the time, Heggenes wrote in a
statement.  Other wealthy Swedes who did the same include Hans Rausing,
who ran the Tetra Pak packaging empire founded by his late
father and left Sweden in the early 1980s. Stefan Persson,
chairman of clothing giant Hennes & Mauritz AB, chose to stay in
Sweden after the government changed the tax rules in the 1990s
to exempt private shareholders controlling more than 25 percent
of a company from paying  wealth tax  on their holdings.  At the time it was scrapped in 2007, the country’s wealth
tax imposed a 1.5 percent levy on Swedes whose capital exceeded
1.5 million kronor ($228,000).  In 2009, Kamprad went to court to change Stichting’s Ingka
IKEA’s philanthropic goal to one that provides opportunities for
youth in the developing world. According to Heggenes, between
2009 and 2011, the IKEA Foundation made donations worth about
$235 million to support  disaster relief  and provide
philanthropic aid in  Kenya ,  Somalia ,  Haiti  and  China . Last year
it announced the goal of reaching an annual donation level of
$135 million. A separate foundation, the Kamprad Family
Foundation, supports research and education, mainly in the
Småland region of Sweden.  ‘Rainy Day’  IKEA says that arrangements mean that the value of the
company shouldn’t be credited to Kamprad.  “The purpose of the foundation is to reinvest funds into
the business and to establish reserves for a rainy day,”
Heggenes said of the Interogo Foundation. “Our other purpose is
philanthropic.”  According to experts on trust and foundation law in Holland
and  Liechtenstein , the law is not so clearly defined. The
structure doesn’t block the possibility of a sale of the assets,
though it does complicate the transaction, said Ep Hannema, a
corporate attorney and head of the Amsterdam office of Norton
Rose LLP, an international  law firm  with an expertise in
corporate finance and private equity.  Creating Continuity  “The idea with a structure such as this is to create
continuity so that if the founder dies, no manager who owns
shares or family member who owns shares can take control
individually,” Hannema said. “Downstream there are
possibilities for anyone who wants to, to minimize the amount of
profits that flow to the foundation. It’s just not very clear to
the outside world.”  In January 2011, Kamprad said in a statement that IKEA is
arranged to have an “optimized tax structure” that allows
“flexibility to use funds, that have already been taxed in one
market, in new markets for further business development without
the additional burden of double taxation.”  Kamprad registered Ingka IKEA in Holland along with two
other Dutch foundations, the IKEA Foundation, a philanthropic
arm, and Stichting IMAS Foundation, which manages dividends
earned from IKEA’s main franchisee, INGKA Holding.  IKEA’s current franchise agreements call for 3 percent of
gross sales to be paid to the franchisor in exchange for
licensing rights and services. The franchisor is Interogo’s
Inter IKEA. Interogo, in turn, is controlled by Kamprad.  Founding Document  Bloomberg obtained Interogo’s founding document, which
establishes the foundation’s by-laws, purpose, management
structure and ownership. A companion document spelling out
further details of the agreement between the founder and
Interogo wasn’t obtained. The company has confirmed that
Interogo is controlled, though not owned, by the Kamprad family.  Interogo’s supervisory board consists of Ingvar Kamprad,
his son Mathias, and five associates with appointment power for
board members resting with Kamprad. Upon his passing, or his
leaving the board, members can self-appoint their own
successors, though any family members on the board have veto
rights over any selection.  Interogo’s by-laws also make provisions for the board to
unwind the structure, if “the purpose of the foundation cannot
reasonably be achieved.” Unwinding the structure would require
board approval and, if not controlled by a single individual,
would require the consensus of the managing group.  Also, should the foundation be revoked, the foundation’s
remaining assets must be “applied to a similar purpose, at the
board’s discretion.”  “The purpose for one of these entities is to separate
assets from the original owner in order to preserve wealth,”
says Werner Haslehner, a fellow at the Law Department of the
 London School of Economics . “One of the main reasons for
someone to create one of these is to create something that will
outlive their heirs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Lafranco in New York at 
 rlafranco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  