-- Kasich on Sidelines in Ohio as Governors Lose Sway in Elections
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-03-05T05:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/kasich-on-the-sidelines-in-ohio-as-governors-lose-sway-in-primary-contests.html
Ohio’s Republican Governor  John Kasich  said last April he would endorse former Mississippi
Governor  Haley Barbour  for president if he ran. Barbour didn’t.
Then, Kasich said in October he encouraged New Jersey Governor
 Chris Christie  to run. He didn’t, either.  Now, Kasich, whose state’s primary is tomorrow, backs no
one. Indeed, his nod might not matter.  “It’s really not a focus of mine,” Kasich replied when
asked after a Feb. 15 speech in Columbus whom he likes in the
Republican contests. “We have to take care of Ohio, and I like
anybody who’s going to help to get the wind at our back rather
than in our face. How’s that for an answer?”  Kasich, 59, who ran for president in 2000, is among
Republican governors not endorsing a candidate in the early
primary states, and the results from those who did are mixed.
 South Carolina ’s Nikki Haley championed former Massachusetts
Governor  Mitt Romney , who lost there by 12.6 percentage points
to former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich . Romney won in
 Michigan , where  Rick Snyder  supported him, though he took his
native state by only 3 points.  Arizona 's Jan Brewer endorsed
Romney, though only two days before he won the Feb. 28 primary.  Delivering Ohio  The importance of such endorsements may have waned as
candidates communicate directly with voters and so-called 
super-PACs spend millions on television ads. Kasich might not 
be able to deliver much, anyhow. His approval rating after 
his first year in office was 44 percent in a University of 
Cincinnati  poll  released March 2. He’s also embroiled in a 
fight to replace the chairman of the  Ohio  Republican Party.  With Ohio one of the biggest prizes in the so-called 
Super Tuesday primaries and the November general election,
the internecine battle may spell trouble for any Republican
seeking to defeat President  Barack Obama  if the fight 
continues unresolved, said  Paul Beck , an Ohio State 
University political-science professor.  “That, I think, could be very demoralizing and just very
deleterious to the party effort,” Beck said in a telephone
interview from Columbus.  Candidates covet endorsements from governors not so much to
sway people, who make up their own minds in this era of social
media, Robert T. Bennett, a former chairman of the Ohio
Republican Party, said in a telephone interview. Instead, the
backing comes with an apparatus to raise money and mobilize
voters, he said.  Taking Over  Kasich had a 71 percent approval rating among Republicans
in a poll by  Quinnipiac University  in Hamden,  Connecticut ,
released Feb. 14, though it was 40 percent overall. He has yet
to top that 40 percent mark in a Quinnipiac poll since he took
office last year, and his low was 30 percent one week after 
taking office and again March 23, a week before he signed a 
bill limiting collective bargaining for public employees. 
Voters repealed it in November.  The governor also has begun an effort to take control of
the state  Republican Party  by running a slate of candidates in
tomorrow’s primary for central committee members who elect the
chairman. Kevin DeWine, the current chairman, is backing the
incumbents.  Rob Nichols , a Kasich spokesman, in a phone interview said
only that “we believe new leadership is necessary.”  DeWine said he is “100 percent focused on building an
operation to carry the Buckeye State for the Republican
nominee.” He rejected any suggestion the party fight will
hinder Republicans’ efforts to defeat Obama.  Little Rainmaking  Ted Strickland, the Democratic governor whom Kasich beat in
2010, made trips out of state while in office to raise money for
himself and the party. Kasich hasn’t done any fundraisers since
taking office except in support of the bargaining-law
referendum, Nichols said.  The Republican fight is about the ability to control which
vendors get the party’s business, Chris Redfern, chairman of the
Ohio Democratic Party, said in a telephone interview. It “goes
without saying” the Republican battle helps his party, he said.  Republicans should spend time and money trying to defeat
Obama, not each other, said Tom Zawistowski, president of the
Ohio Liberty Council, an organization of Tea Party groups.  ‘Shouldn’t Be Happening’  “This is absolutely inappropriate, and something that just
shouldn’t be happening in a presidential election year,”
Zawistowski said in a telephone interview. “The Republican
Party should be focused on the races that are being run, not
on who’s running the party.”  The fight may disrupt the Republican Party’s traditional
role of mobilizing voters in November, said John C. Green, a
political scientist from the University of Akron. It also may
hinder fundraising and grassroots energy, he said.  “This kind of conflict can make the party organization
less effective,” Green said in a telephone interview.  In any event, the rise of super-PACs spending millions of
dollars after the  Supreme Court ’s Citizens United decision has
diminished the importance of governors and parties, said William C. Binning, a former Mahoning County Republican Party chairman
who worked for three governors and is chairman emeritus of
Youngstown State University’s political-science department.  “Every year, the party becomes less significant,” Binning
said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  