-- KDB Financial Picks Goldman, Samsung Among Seven Preferred IPO Managers
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2012-03-05T08:08:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/kdb-financial-picks-goldman-samsung-among-seven-preferred-ipo-managers.html
KDB Financial Group Inc. (KDBGRPZ)  hired seven
brokerages, including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Samsung
Securities Co., as preferred bidders to arrange its initial
public share sale as the government privatizes the company.  KDB,  South Korea ’s largest state-run banking group, will
hold talks with Goldman Sachs and Samsung Securities to become
lead arrangers, the Seoul-based company said in an e-mailed
statement today. KDB plans to hold the IPO by October, it said.  South Korean President Lee Myung Bak’s 2007 campaign
pledges to privatize and deregulate financial firms were
hampered last year in a second failed attempt to sell  Woori
Finance Holdings Co. (053000)  due to lack of investor interest. Demand
for KDB shares will hinge on pricing amid uncertainties in the
global economy, according to KTB Asset Management Co.  “Even after gains in shares this year, many local banks
are still trading below their book values,” said Im Jeong Jae,
a Seoul-based  fund manager  at Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset
Management Co., which oversees about $28 billion. “For a state
lender like KDB, the government will own the bulk of the bank
even after the IPO and is set to hold sway on its key policies,
which should be a discount factor compared with other banks.”  The average price to book ratio of South Korea’s big four
publicly traded financial holding groups -- KB Financial Group
Inc.,  Woori Finance , Shinhan Financial Group Co. and Hana
Financial Group Inc. -- is 0.78, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The  KRX Banks Sector Index (KRXBANK) , comprised of 10 South
Korean banks, has jumped 12 percent this year, following a 31
percent drop in 2011.  Preferred Bidders List  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  UBS AG (UBSN) , Tong Yang Securities Inc., Korea
Investment & Securities Co. and  Hyundai Securities Co. (003450) , were
also named as preferred bidders to help arrange the share sale,
according to today’s statement.  Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said last year the nation
plans to sell part of its stake in KDB in 2012. The government
is required to offload an unspecified number of shares in the
company by May 2014.  KDB may sell more than 10 percent of the company through
the offering if market conditions are favorable, Chairman Kang Man Soo said on Feb. 22. The 10 percent is a minimum sale
requirement under South Korea’s IPO rules.  If KDB sells a 10 percent stake at book value, that could
make the offering worth about 2 trillion won ($1.79 billion).
That would be the biggest IPO in Korea since  Samsung Life
Insurance Co. (032830)  raised 4.89 trillion won in 2010, according to an
estimate by Kyobo Securities Co.  KDB had 176 trillion won of assets as of September
including 23 trillion won of equity, according to company data
posted on its website. Profit rose 50 percent 1.06 trillion won
in the nine-month period ended September from a year earlier as
credit costs fell, the data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net ;
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  