-- Kenya May Keep Key Rate at Record High
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-03-06T06:07:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/kenya-may-keep-benchmark-rate-at-record-high-as-oil-prices-surge.html
Kenya ’s central bank will probably
keep its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at a record high as
surging  oil prices  threaten efforts to rein in inflation.  The Monetary Policy Committee, led by Governor Njuguna Ndung’u, will keep the benchmark  interest rate  at 18 percent for
a third consecutive meeting, according to the median estimate of
nine economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The central bank, based
in Nairobi, is scheduled to announce the decision in an e-mailed
statement today.  Oil has surged 16 percent in  London  this year, adding to
price pressures as the central bank struggles to cut an
inflation rate at 16.7 percent. The bank has boosted its key
rate by 11 percentage points since October to bolster the
currency and meet the government’s inflation target of 9 percent
by June.  “The MPC will want to see further evidence of a
deceleration in inflation,”  Razia Khan , head of Africa research
at Standard Chartered Bank Plc in London, said in an e-mailed
response to questions yesterday. Rising global oil prices is a
risk for inflation, she said.  Six of the nine economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicted
the benchmark rate will stay unchanged, while three forecast a
reduction of 1 percentage point.  Parliamentary Scrutiny  Ndung’u is under increased scrutiny at the central bank. A
parliamentary committee last month recommended that President
Mwai Kibaki investigate whether the governor’s actions led to
the shilling’s slump to a record low of 106.75 per dollar in
October. Ndung’u should be removed from his post while the probe
is underway, lawmakers said in a report that’s scheduled to be
debated in parliament today.  The currency has strengthened 25 percent against the dollar
since Oct. 12 as the central bank boosted interest rates. The
shilling was unchanged at 83.35 per dollar by 8:56 a.m. in
Nairobi.  In neighboring  Uganda , which aims to slow inflation to 10
percent by the end of the year from 25.4 percent in February,
the central bank lowered its benchmark rate by 2 percentage
points to 21 percent this year.  Kenyan policy makers may have room to lower interest rates
as inflation slowed from 19.7 percent in November, according to
Yvonne Mhango, a sub-Saharan African economist at  Renaissance
Capital  in Johannesburg, who predicts a 1 percentage-point cut.  “Given that the deceleration of inflation was sharper than
expected, we now think the MPC will start its cutting cycle
sooner than our initial expectation of the second quarter,”
Mhango wrote in a note to clients.  Credit demand has slowed as the central bank boosted
interest rates. Growth in borrowing by the private sector eased
to 32.1 percent in November from 34.8 percent in October, the
central bank said on Jan. 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  