-- Kenyan Shilling Weakens as Central Bank Expected to Retain Rate
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2012-03-05T10:35:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/kenyan-shilling-weakens-as-central-bank-expected-to-retain-rate.html
Kenya ’s shilling weakened for the
sixth day in seven against the dollar on speculation the central
bank will maintain the benchmark interest rate at a policy
meeting tomorrow.  The currency of East Africa’s biggest economy weakened as
much as 0.3 percent and was trading 0.1 percent lower at 83.20
to the dollar at 12:34 p.m. It was unchanged on March 2.  “The shilling weakening streak is on the expectation that
the central bank has ended its recent tightening policy stance
as inflation continues to fall,” Duncan Kinuthia, a dealer at
Nairobi-based Commercial Bank of Africa Ltd., said in a phone
interview today. “The drive to support the shilling is over and
the central bank is leaving it to the market forces.”  The central bank left its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged
at a record 18 percent at two policy meetings this year, after
six increases in 2011 that eased credit demand and helped the
shilling rebound from a record low of 106 on Oct. 11. The
currency has gained 27 percent since that date, the best
performance among all currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The  inflation rate  declined for a third month to 16.69
percent in February from 18.3 percent in January, the Nairobi-
based Kenya National Bureau of Statistics said in an e-mailed
statement on Feb 29.  Uganda Shilling  The Ugandan shilling depreciated, heading for the biggest
one-day drop in eight years, on high demand for the dollar amid
reduced inflows as the coffee season ends.  The currency of  East Africa ’s third-biggest economy slumped
4.2 percent to 2,568 per dollar, by 12:22 p.m. in the capital,
Kampala. A close at that level would be the lowest since Nov. 29
and mark the biggest one-day drop since Feb. 18, 2004, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There is panic buying by the manufacturing sector and in
the interbank market due to low inflows which has put pressure
on the shilling,”  Taib Lubega, a trader at Stanbic Bank Uganda
Ltd., said in a phone interview from Nairobi.  “The central
bank has sold limited amount which has had no effect on the
shilling and unless they sell a substantial amount the shilling
is bound to weaken further.”  Tanzania’s shilling appreciated the most in over two weeks,
gaining 0.4 percent to 1,594 per dollar at 11:23 a.m.  -- Editors: Peter Branton, Alan Purkiss  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  