-- King Overhauls BOE Staff in ‘Fishing Ground’ for Policy Makers
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-03-06T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/king-overhauls-staff-in-bank-of-england-fishing-ground-for-policy-makers.html
The  Bank of England  is overhauling
the leadership of its economics unit as Governor  Mervyn King 
and Chief Economist Spencer Dale put in place a new crop of
officials who may be picked for future policy roles.  The revamp that began yesterday is focused on managers in
Dale’s department, which produces forecasts, statistics and
economic analysis, according to the central bank’s  website . The
officials changing position or assuming new roles are Robert
Woods,  James Bell , Neal Hatch, Phil Evans and  Chris Young .  The staff changes come as King and Deputy Governor  Charles Bean  approach the final year of their terms, and the central
bank prepares to take on new regulatory powers over financial
institutions. The overhaul is at the head of division level that
has in the past been a talent pool for promotion to the bank’s
Monetary Policy Committee.  “They’re the up-and-coming people,” said  Jens Larsen , chief
European economist at  RBC Capital Markets  in London and a former
head of division who left the Bank of England in September 2010.
“That’s the natural fishing ground for an internal promotion up
to the MPC level.”  Woods, an official on secondment from the U.K. Treasury,
will replace Evans as head of Conjunctural Assessment and
Projections from March 26. Evans will leave the division in May.
Chris Young on March 19 will take over Macro Financial Analysis,
the role previously held by Woods.  James Bell moved from the press office to become head of
Structural Economic Analysis, replacing Hatch. Bell started his
role yesterday.  The Bank of England declined to comment on the changes
within Dale’s Monetary Analysis and Statistics department or
provide further information.  ‘Talented People’  All of the positions report to Dale, who was head of
Monetary Assessment and Strategy from 1999 to 2000 and led
Conjunctural Assessment and Projections from 2000 to 2006. He
then left the bank for a secondment at the U.S. Federal Reserve
before returning to become chief economist.  Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker , a favorite among economists to
replace King as Governor, was head of Monetary Assessment and
Strategy from 1997 to 1998.  Paul Fisher , now the bank’s markets
director, led the projections team from 1995 to 1999.  “It’s the baton being passed to the next generation,”
said Richard Barwell, economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc in London and a former central bank official. “These are
some of the most talented people the bank’s got, and they’ve all
made their name under Spencer.”  Continuity  Bean’s term as deputy governor finishes at the end of June
2013. King is scheduled to leave that same month after serving
the maximum two five-year terms allowed. Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  and Treasury officials will begin the
search for King’s successor starting next month, with the aim of
making an announcement later this year, a government official
with knowledge of the matter said last month.  The staff involved in the latest changes may help provide
continuity after King retires and the bank assumes its new
powers from the Financial Services Authority, according to David Tinsley, an economist at BNP Paribas in  London .  “Mervyn and Charlie have been at the helm of the bank for
so long now that the people below them would represent the
choices they’ve made,” said Tinsley, a former Bank of England
official. “These are people who’ve delivered the goods, and the
decision makers are above them. I wouldn’t expect a new governor
to make changes at that level.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  