-- Netherlands Would Benefit From Exiting Euro, Freedom Party Report Argues
-- B y   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l   a n d   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2012-03-05T17:38:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/netherlands-would-benefit-from-exiting-euro-freedom-party-report-argues.html
Dutch  Freedom Party  leader  Geert Wilders  said the Netherlands, the euro area’s second-largest
exporter after  Germany , would profit from abandoning the euro
and returning to the guilder.  “The Netherlands can exit the euro, but you have to be
honest, it’ll cost money,” Wilders told reporters in The Hague
today, citing the findings of  a report by London-based Lombard
Street Research  commissioned by his party.  Wilders, whose lawmakers support the minority coalition of
Liberal Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  on most subjects, said a
referendum is needed on whether the Netherlands should stay in
the euro area. The ruling Liberals and  Christian Democrats  rely
on the opposition  Labor Party  to back their European policy as
Wilders opposes further financial aid to debt-ridden euro
countries.  “In the worst case, if the guilder appreciates 10 percent,
we’ll suffer a loss of 51 billion euros ($67 billion)” in 2012,
Wilders said, citing the report. “That will be compensated
starting in the second year, because it’s smaller than the 37
billion and 38 billion euros we will save in 2013 and 2014 by
not contributing to maintaining the euro zone.”  Bailout Fund  European leaders agreed last week to provide capital faster
for their planned permanent bailout fund to strengthen the
single-currency bloc’s defenses against a debt crisis that has
necessitated two bailouts for  Greece  and rescues for Portugal
and Ireland. They also signed a deficit-control treaty, putting
tighter limits on spending.  “The importance of the euro zone can’t be underestimated
and one shouldn’t make the calculations in the first five or 10
years,” European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  said in an
interview with Dutch television program Buitenhof yesterday,
before the report was published. “I haven’t seen this study,
but I assume that you can always find a research institute to
prove what you want to be proven.”  Wilders’s presentation coincided with the start of
negotiations between the Freedom Party and Rutte’s government on
further budget cuts needed to bring the Netherlands’ deficit in
line with the European Union’s current limit of 3 percent of
gross domestic product.  Next year’s shortfall will be 4.5 percent of gross domestic
product, government planning agency CPB said last week. The 2013
forecast equates to a 9 billion-euro overshoot of the EU limit,
it said. The Dutch economy went into its second recession in
three years in the second half of 2011 as budget cuts and
 Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis curbed consumer demand.  ‘One of Many’  Dutch Finance Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  said today that
Lombard Street’s findings were just “one of many reports on the
euro,” according to broadcaster NOS.  “The euro and the internal market have brought the
Netherlands a lot of benefits,” NOS cited the minister as
saying on its website. Twelve studies sent to the Dutch
parliament showed “others estimate the costs to be much
higher” for a Dutch exit from the single currency.  “That is why the government will strive for stability in
the euro zone,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jurjen van de Pol in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net ;
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Ludden at 
 jludden@bloomberg.net  