-- New York Money Manager Raised $75 Million in Fraud, SEC Says
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2012-03-05T21:14:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/new-york-money-manager-raised-75-million-in-fraud-sec-says-1-.html
A  money manager  from Old Westbury,
 New York , was accused of running a scheme in which he lied to 24
investors who gave him $74.9 million from 2005 to 2012, telling
them the money would be put into  hedge funds , including those
run by  Morgan Stanley. (MS)   Brian Raymond Callahan used the money to pay back other
investors and for personal expenses such as a “multimillion-
dollar cooperative unit on  Long Island ,” the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission said today in a civil complaint filed in
federal court in New York.  “Callahan’s solicitation of investors involved material
misrepresentations about the use of their money, the liquidity
of their investments and the asset diversification,” the SEC
said.  Callahan didn’t tell his clients he was barred in 2009 from
associating with any member of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority, according to the SEC. The agency asked for an
immediate freeze on his assets. It said Callahan refused to
appear for sworn testimony pursuant to a subpoena.  The case was assigned to U.S. District Judge Arthur Spatt
in  Central Islip , New York. Robert Knuts, a lawyer for Callahan,
didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment on the lawsuit.  Offshore Funds  Callahan took money for at least five offshore funds he
ran, according to the complaint. He told investors their money
would end up in New York hedge funds Kinetics Institutional
Partners LP and Millennium USA, in addition to the Morgan
Stanley funds, the SEC said. Some of the assets of Callahan’s
funds were invested in those funds, the agency said.  Callahan said his liquid assets at the end of last year
totaled $65.1 million when the actual figure was $6.46 million,
the SEC said.  His use of fraudulent promissory notes inflated the amount
of assets under management, resulting in his receiving
management fees inflated by as much as 800 percent, the SEC
said.  The investors included a California teacher who gave
$270,000 and a small-business owner in  Kentucky  who gave
$2.9 million, the SEC said. The agency didn’t name those
investors.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Callahan,
12-cv-01065, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York
(Central Islip).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  