-- Newspaper Trade Group Asks FCC to Eliminate Ownership Rule on TV Stations
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-03-05T21:41:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/newspapers-ask-fcc-to-eliminate-ownership-rule-on-tv-stations.html
The Federal Communications
Commission should repeal a rule that bars common ownership of a
television station and daily newspaper in the same market, a
trade group said.  The rule adopted in 1975 “is a relic” that undermines
journalism by preventing investment from broadcasters, the
 Newspaper Association of America  said in a  filing  to the agency
today. The group, based in Arlington,  Virginia , says it
represents almost 2,000 U.S. newspapers.  The FCC proposed easing in December the rule that was put
in place to preserve diverse media ownership. Approval may spur
acquisitions, increasing the value of media companies such as
Gannett Co., owner of television stations and newspapers including
 USA Today .  Consumer groups said the FCC’s proposal would concentrate
too much power in the hands of large companies and limit the
number of voices in a community. The FCC said some newspaper and
broadcast cross-ownership restrictions are needed to preserve a
diversity of viewpoints in communities.  No date has been set for the FCC vote.  This is the second proposed change in cross-ownership rules
in the past four years. On July 7, a U.S. appeals court in
Philadelphia vacated an FCC regulation adopted in 2007 to let
one owner hold a daily newspaper and a broadcast station in the
largest markets. The court sent the rule back to the FCC for
more consideration.  CBS Corp. (CBS) , Clear Channel Communications Inc., Gannett,
 Media General Inc. (MEG)  and Cox Enterprises Inc. had challenged the
2007 FCC order for failing to relax the rule further.  The current FCC restrictions aren’t helping newspapers as
circulation falls, Barry Lucas, senior vice president of
research at Gabelli & Co., has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in  Washington  at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  