-- Obama Must Make Red Lines on Iran’s Nukes Clear to Israel: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-03-05T00:01:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/obama-must-make-red-lines-on-iran-s-nukes-clear-to-israel-view.html
By many accounts, U.S. President
 Barack Obama  and Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  don’t
much like or trust each other. It’s important that they use
their meeting on Monday to end at least the mistrust.  For many months now U.S. diplomacy has been directed as
much at stopping an Israeli pre-emptive military strike against
Iranian  nuclear facilities , as at Iran itself. It’s partly
thanks to the tension created by Israel’s threats to act that
the Obama administration was finally able to persuade European
allies to apply harsh economic sanctions aimed at throttling
Iran’s oil revenue.  Now, however, that creative tension between the U.S. and
Israel threatens to turn destructive. In recent weeks, public
rhetoric and semi-official leaks have increased the likelihood
of the very outcome the new sanctions were in part designed to
avoid -- namely, an Israeli attempt to resolve the Iranian
nuclear question by force. That’s an outcome neither the U.S.
nor  Israel  wants.  At the root of this vicious circle lies a deep suspicion on
Netanyahu’s part that  Obama , despite public commitments to
prevent a nuclear-armed Iran, has not in fact ruled out a policy
of containment. This uncertainty has led to a growing Israeli
focus on attacking Iran’s presumed nuclear-weapons effort before
it achieves “immunity” -- the moment Iran’s facilities are so
deeply bunkered and its progress so advanced that Israel would
no longer be able to neutralize the program on its own.  Existential Threat  It’s unclear whether Netanyahu really intends to go it
alone, or is simply trying to pressure the U.S. into action. But
there are real differences of analysis and interests, too.  Israelis see a nuclear-armed  Iran  as a threat to their
existence. For the U.S., it is a far less serious concern.
Comments from U.S. officials suggest the administration has set
its red line at Iran’s enriching nuclear fuel to weapons grade,
which nobody claims Iran has yet done. Israel’s red line is more
imminent: an Iranian nuclear-weapons capacity, defined as the
moment when it possesses enough low-enriched uranium to be able
to quickly “break out” and produce a weapon. This difference,
plus Israel’s lesser ability to destroy Iran’s bunkered
facilities, make for a shorter Israeli timetable.  A public dispute between allies helps nobody but the regime
in Tehran. As we have argued before, we believe the tough new
sanctions should be given a chance to work. They have already
triggered a sharp devaluation in the Iranian rial and may choke
off the oil revenue that funds the regime and its nuclear
project. Iranian officials have expressed willingness to resume
negotiations with the so-called P5+1 (the five permanent United
Nations Security Council members plus  Germany ), indicating
they’re feeling pain.  There are, of course, no guarantees that renewed talks
would be serious or that sanctions will change Iran’s nuclear
policy. Neither sanctions nor Iran’s regime has a glowing track
record. But the alternative for now looks worse. There is deep
skepticism even within the Israeli military and intelligence
services that they have the reach and hardware to destroy Iran’s
nuclear infrastructure. Israeli warplanes and missiles could
doubtless cause damage and create some delay, but there is a
significant risk that the attempt would mainly give the Iranians
an excuse to leave the  Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty , kick out
international inspectors and go for broke to build a nuclear
arsenal.  Just as damaging, an unsuccessful attack could reverse
Iran’s growing international isolation, with Israel looking like
the aggressor. U.S. efforts to draw other countries into
sanctions, tightening the noose in terms of Iranian oil exports
and dual-use technologies, could be damaged.  A Last Resort  In a speech to the American Israel Public Affairs Committee
on Sunday, Obama said clearly that he isn’t interested in
containing a nuclear Iran and will do whatever it takes --
including the use of military force -- to prevent the Tehran
regime from acquiring a weapon, a development that would trigger
a nuclear arms race across the  Middle East . We take him at his
word. He ordered the U.S. military to update a plan for attack
as long ago as 2010.  We also agree with Obama when he said “there is too much
loose talk of war.” Like him, we hope he will never have to use
those plans for attack and that Iran will agree to a negotiated
solution. The president’s task on Monday is to convince
Netanyahu that if Israel gives time for sanctions and diplomacy
to work, it can be sure the U.S. will use force as the last
resort should those policies fail.  To do that, Obama should on Monday clearly set out his red
lines, without committing to a timetable. It is vital that he
and Netanyahu reach a broad understanding of how they plan to
handle Iran over the coming months, and engender enough trust
that they can work together, instead of against each other.
Obama should also make sure Iran understands those red lines --
perhaps through naval deployments or military exercises in the
region, which would make the threat of a U.S. strike more
credible.  There were signs even before Sunday’s speech that the
administration wants to give the kind of assurance that would
allow Israel to stand down for now. U.S. military officials, who
had been briefing against an Israeli attack, in recent days have
been  talking up  the capacity of the U.S. to strike, discussing
plans to refuel Israeli aircraft and asserting that U.S. 30,000-
pound bunker-busting bombs could successfully penetrate the new
Iranian uranium enrichment facility near Qom.  Should it come to military action, the full force of the
U.S. military and the international legitimacy gained by
pursuing diplomacy to the last possible moment would greatly
improve the chances of success for the goal that Obama and
Netanyahu share: an Iran without nuclear arms.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 