-- Obama Stresses Resolve on Iran Ahead of Netanyahu Meeting
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2012-03-05T08:37:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/obama-assures-israel-of-resolve-to-confront-iran-amid-loose-talk-of-war-.html
President  Barack Obama  and Israeli
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu , heading into their meeting
today at the White House, are emphasizing agreement over how to
confront Iran’s nuclear program, even as Obama asked  Israel  to
help dial back “too much loose talk of war.”  Addressing the American Israel Public Affairs Committee,
the biggest pro-Israel organization in the U.S., Obama said
yesterday that he takes “no options off the table” including a
“military effort” to stop Iran from having a nuclear weapon.  “Iran’s leaders should know that I do not have a policy of
containment; I have a policy to prevent Iran from obtaining a
nuclear weapon,” the U.S. president said.  Israel has a “sovereign right to make its own decisions,”
Obama also said, and “I will not hesitate to use force when it
is necessary to defend the  United States  and its interests.”  Netanyahu, who was in Ottawa before heading to Washington,
applauded Obama’s position that containment is not an option and
said he “very much appreciated” Obama’s underscoring Israel’s
right to self defense.  Netanyahu, who will address Aipac tonight following his
meeting with Obama, didn’t comment on Obama’s position that more
time is needed for international sanctions and diplomatic
pressure to convince Iran to abandon its nuclear program.  No Dates  Israeli President  Shimon Peres , who also addressed Aipac
yesterday, said that at the Obama-Netanyahu meeting “I don’t
expect that someone will get up and start giving dates - what
time we will do this, what time we will do that - not us, and
not them.” The discussion will be focused on process, Peres
said in an interview broadcast today on Israel’s  Army Radio .  Obama said premature talk of war may hurt Israeli and U.S.
interests and help Iran by driving up the price of oil, which
Iran exports.  Since the start of October, crude oil has risen 37 percent.
Oil for April delivery gained as much as 59 cents to $107.29 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . It traded at $106.66 at 8:01 a.m. London time. Brent
oil may rise to $150 a barrel this year if diplomatic relations
between Iran and the west worsen, Barclays Plc said in a March 1
report.  Obama-Netanyahu Relations  Obama and Netanyahu, who have a history of tense relations,
are set to hold a late-morning meeting at the White House
followed by lunch. They didn’t schedule a joint press
conference, a common event for such visits.  The two leaders have been at odds since the start of
Obama’s presidency. Soon after taking office, Obama pushed
Israel to freeze construction of Jewish settlements in
Palestinian areas, in an effort to restart peace talks.
Netanyahu has been approving more.  Last November, journalists at the Group of 20 summit in
 France  overheard a Obama and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
discussing Netanyahu. Obama acknowledged Sarkozy’s dislike for
Netanyahu by saying, “I have to deal with him even more often
than you.” Obama, in an interview with the Atlantic magazine
published last week, said he and Netanyahu have a “very
functional” relationship.  The U.S. and Israel see strategic value in a public posture
that minimizes their differences even as Israel remains more
concerned about running out of time to stop  Iran  from becoming
nuclear-weapons capable, said Colin Kahl, a former deputy
assistant secretary of defense for the  Middle East  in the Obama
administration.  ‘United Front’  “It’s in the interests of both parties to show somewhat of
a  united front  if part of the goal is to compel Iran to change
its position,” said Kahl, who has said it is premature for
military action against Iran.  That unity signals to Iran that it “needs to take the
prospect of pressure and maybe even a military strike down the
road seriously,” said Kahl, now a professor at  Georgetown
University  and senior fellow for the Center for a New American
Security, a policy group in  Washington .  Kahl said while the U.S. and Israel are trying to
“negotiate the gray” areas, “there is a fair amount of
agreement between both sides.”  Trita Parsi, president of the National Iranian American
Council, said the differences between Israel and the U.S. remain
“profound.”  Parsi, whose nonpartisan organization advocates a
diplomatic solution to the crisis, said Israel considers
“nuclear capability” for Iran to be a “red line” that would
bring a military strike, while Obama appears to draw the line
later, at weaponization rather than capability.  Peace Process Overshadowed  Obama, in his speech, didn’t set out a definitive line in
Iran’s nuclear program that would trigger a U.S. attack, while
he did say his policy was to prevent the government in Tehran
from getting a weapon.  Iran says its nuclear program is for civilian energy and
medical research.  Whether or when to use military force to stop  Iran’s
nuclear program  has replaced the Israel-Palestinian  peace
process  as the dominant issue in Israel-U.S. relations.  The U.S. and the European Union tightened economic
sanctions following a Nov. 8, 2011, report by United Nations
inspectors that Iran’s nuclear research program may include
pursuing the capability to build a nuclear weapon. Because of
the sanctions, Obama said Iran is isolated and its economy
ground to almost a halt last year.  Peres, addressing Aipac yesterday before Obama spoke, said
there is no disagreement between Israel and the U.S. on the goal
of stopping Iran’s from building nuclear arms.  “Our message is clear: Iran will not develop a nuclear
weapon,” Peres said.  U.S. Ownership  After Obama’s speech, Peres told him in a meeting that
“your remarks to the effect that the U.S. opposes ‘containment’
of a nuclear Iran are very important for Israel, as is your
statement that all options are on the table,” according to a
statement from Peres’ office.  Israeli Deputy Foreign Minister Danny Ayalon said on
Israel’s Channel 2 television that “overall it was a very good
speech” by Obama. “The point that we have to pay particular
attention to is that here, Obama has declared ownership; Iran is
an American problem, and we won’t allow it to go nuclear.”  The Iranians, he said, “need to pay very close attention
to what was said here.”  Obama’s relationship with Israel and the threat posed by
Iran also has emerged in the U.S. presidential campaign. Three
Republican presidential candidates are scheduled to deliver
messages to the Aipac conference.  Obama said all parties should consider the “weightiness of
these issues” and the stakes for both the U.S. and Israel. He
warned that the approach in dealing with Iran must be
deliberate.  “Already, there is too much loose talk of war,” Obama
said. “Such talk has only benefited the Iranian government, by
driving up the price of oil, which they depend upon to fund
their nuclear program. For the sake of Israel’s security,
America’s security, and the peace and security of the world, now
is not the time for bluster.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  