-- Obama Tells Netanyahu Diplomacy May Still Derail Iran Threat
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-03-05T23:24:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/obama-says-still-time-for-a-diplomatic-solution-to-iran-s-nuclear-program.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said Israel must remain “the master of its fate” in
deciding whether a military strike is necessary to prevent Iran
from building a nuclear weapon, even as President  Barack Obama 
called for more time to let sanctions and diplomacy work.  In a meeting today at the White House, Obama told Netanyahu
“there is still a window” for a diplomatic solution to the
confrontation with Iran. He said the U.S. has a “rock solid”
commitment to Israel’s security and that “all options” are
available to prevent a nuclear-armed Iran.  While thanking Obama for delivering a “strong speech”
yesterday to the American Israel Public Affairs Committee,
Netanyahu made clear that Israel retains the option of acting
unilaterally against Iran. The Israeli leader also gave Obama a
 Megillah , the scroll Jews read on the holiday of Purim that
tells the story of how they prevailed over a plot to kill them
in ancient Persia, which is present-day Iran.  “My supreme responsibility as prime minister of  Israel  is
to ensure that Israel remains the master of its fate,”
Netanyahu said as he and Obama convened in the Oval Office.  Their meeting came as the U.S. and Israel are considering
their next steps to force Iran to give up any ambitions to build
a nuclear bomb. Neither leader set out a clear threshold that
would trigger military action and Netanyahu didn’t publicly
endorse Obama’s call for patience.  Iran Main Topic  “Israel has succeeded in raising Iran to the center of our
discussions,” Netanyahu told Israeli reporters in Hebrew
following the meeting.  In his remarks, Obama reiterated his pledge of support for
Israel’s security that he made yesterday in his speech to the
annual Washington policy conference of Aipac, the biggest pro-
Israel organization in the U.S. Netanyahu addresses the group
tonight.  “We don’t know what they’re saying in private, but at
least from what’s evident publicly, they don’t have agreed-upon
red lines,” said  Mark Heller , senior research fellow at  Tel
Aviv  University’s Institute for National Security Studies.  “Netanyahu wants to be able to act with at least tacit
American support,” Heller said in a phone interview from Tel
Aviv. “He’s trying to maximize prior coordination.”  ‘Skeptical Israeli View’  “There’s a skeptical Israeli view that we do trust you if
we’re certain that you support us, but we’re not certain of that
yet,” Heller said.  Obama has said he does not support a policy of containment
and takes “no options off the table” including a “military
effort” to stop Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon.  Obama told Aipac that while Israel has the right to make
its own decisions, sanctions need more time to work and “loose
talk of war” is driving up the price of Iranian oil and
jeopardizing U.S. and Israeli security.  David Makovsky , a fellow at the  Washington  Institute for
Near East Policy, a research center in Washington, said Obama’s
public comments leading up to today’s meeting may have moved the
U.S. and Israel somewhat closer by clarifying that Obama opposes
containment, considers the Iran issue one of U.S. as well as
Israeli national security and recognizes Israel’s right to make
its own military decisions.  Oil Prices  Since hitting a low for the last 12 months on Oct. 4, 2011,
crude oil has risen 41 percent, in part because of concerns
about tensions in the  Persian Gulf  and higher demand spurred by
economic growth in countries such as  China  and a strengthening
recovery in the U.S. Crude oil for April delivery rose 45 cents,
or 0.4 percent, to settle at $107.17 a barrel today on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange .  Iran  says its nuclear program is for civilian energy and
medical research. The U.S. and the European Union tightened
economic sanctions following a Nov. 8, 2011, report by United
Nations inspectors that Iran’s nuclear research program may
include pursuing the capability to build a nuclear weapon.
Because of the sanctions, Obama said Iran is isolated and its
economy ground to almost a halt last year.  The U.S. and Israel see strategic value in a public posture
that minimizes their differences even as Israel remains more
concerned about running out of time to stop Iran from becoming
nuclear-weapons capable, said Colin Kahl, a former deputy
assistant secretary of defense for the  Middle East  in the Obama
administration.  ‘United Front’  “It’s in the interests of both parties to show somewhat of
a  united front  if part of the goal is to compel Iran to change
its position,” said Kahl, who has said it is premature for
military action against Iran.  That unity signals to Iran that it “needs to take the
prospect of pressure and maybe even a military strike down the
road seriously,” said Kahl, now a professor at  Georgetown
University  and senior fellow for the Center for a New American
Security, a policy group in Washington.  Kahl said while the U.S. and Israel are trying to
“negotiate the gray” areas, “there is a fair amount of
agreement between both sides.”  Obama and Netanyahu have been at odds since the start of
Obama’s presidency. Soon after taking office, Obama pushed
Israel to freeze construction of Jewish settlements in
Palestinian areas, in an effort to restart peace talks.
Netanyahu has been approving more.  ‘Very Functional’ Relationship  Last November, journalists at the Group of 20 summit in
 France  overheard Obama and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
discussing Netanyahu. Obama acknowledged Sarkozy’s dislike for
Netanyahu by saying, “I have to deal with him even more often
than you.”  Obama, in an interview with the Atlantic magazine published
last week, said he and Netanyahu have a “very functional”
relationship.  Obama’s relationship with Israel and the threat posed by
Iran also has emerged in the U.S. presidential campaign. Three
Republican presidential candidates are scheduled to deliver
messages to the Aipac conference.  Obama said all parties should consider the “weightiness of
these issues” and the stakes for both the U.S. and Israel. He
warned that the approach in dealing with Iran must be
deliberate.  “Already, there is too much loose talk of war,” Obama
said. “Such talk has only benefited the Iranian government, by
driving up the price of oil, which they depend upon to fund
their nuclear program. For the sake of Israel’s security,
America’s security, and the peace and security of the world, now
is not the time for bluster.”  Obama’s position at the private meeting was consistent with
his pledge to protect Israel’s security in his speech to Aipac.  “Nothing that he said inside contradicted what he said
outside,” Netanyahu said.  Asked what meaning Obama should draw from the story of the
ancient Jewish-Persian conflict recounted in Megillah, which
Netanyahu gave him two days before the holiday begins, the
Israeli leader smiled and declined to comment further.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Washington at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  