-- Obama Challenges Romney, Gingrich Attacks on Israel Policies
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-03-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/obama-challenges-romney-gingrich-attacks-on-israel-policies.html
President Barack Obama, speaking to
the biggest pro- Israel  group in the U.S., sought to bolster his
strength among Jewish voters as he challenged Republican
assertions that he’ll permit Iran to obtain a nuclear weapon.  “If during this political season you hear some questions
regarding my administration’s support for Israel, remember that
it’s not backed up by the facts,” Obama told more than 13,000
people attending the annual Washington conference of the
American Israel Public Affairs Committee.  “And remember that the U.S.-Israel relationship is simply
too important to be distorted by partisan politics,” he said.  Obama won in 2008 with 78 percent support from Jewish
voters, according to national exit polls. Democrat Obama’s
campaign is seeking to maintain that support in swing states
with large Jewish populations, including  Florida , Pennsylvania,
 Ohio ,  Michigan  and Nevada.  As president, Obama’s had public disagreements with the
Israeli government of  Benjamin Netanyahu , who visits the White
House for meetings with Obama today, about issues such as
limiting Jewish settlement construction in Palestinian areas and
as to when a strike might be needed to destroy Iran’s nuclear
program. The discord has given Republicans a chance to appeal to
Jewish voters and spotlight foreign policy and national
security, a traditional strength of their party.  Iranian Nuclear Weapons  Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney, speaking
yesterday in Snellville,  Georgia , said Obama’s reelection would
lead to Iran having a nuclear weapon. “It’s pretty
straightforward,” Romney told more than 1,000 voters in a high
school cafeteria. “If  Barack Obama  gets re-elected, Iran will
have a nuclear weapon, and the world will change.”  “This is a president who has failed to put in place
crippling sanctions against Iran,” Romney said. “He’s also
failed to communicate that military options are on the table
and, in fact, in our hand, and that it’s unacceptable to America
for Iran to have a nuclear weapon.”  Former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  criticized Obama’s Iran
policy as ineffective.  “We’ve had no evidence that the president is prepared to
take steps to stop Iran from getting a nuclear weapon,”
Gingrich said on CNN’s “State of the Union” show yesterday.
“They talk and the Iranians build. They talk and the Iranians
build. And we’re being played for fools.”  Former  Pennsylvania  Senator Rick Santorum, in Memphis,
Tennessee, said yesterday Obama isn’t “doing very much” to
prevent Iran from having a nuclear weapon.  Obama’s Commitment  Obama devoted much of his speech yesterday to his personal
record and commitment to the Jewish state’s security.  “There should not be a shred of doubt by now -- when the
chips are down, I have Israel’s back,” Obama told the policy
forum, which will also hear from the Republican candidates
before it ends tomorrow. Obama noted his opposition to a
Palestinian bid for statehood through the UN, his support for
U.S. funding to deploy a missile defense system and
international diplomatic support for Israel.  Obama in his speech said there was “too much loose talk of
war,” which undercut the effect of sanctions by driving up the
price of oil that  Iran  exports. Obama assured Aipac that “I
will take no options off the table, and I mean what I say.” He
said that included “all elements of American power” including
the military.  No Containment Policy  “Iran’s leaders should know that I do not have a policy of
containment; I have a policy to prevent Iran from obtaining a
nuclear weapon,” Obama said.  Not all Republicans were as critical as the presidential
candidates. House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  of Virginia said
in an interview after Obama’s speech that the president deserved
“credit where credit is due” because he “was definitive in
saying we do not support a policy of containment.”  At the same time, Cantor said Obama gave mixed messages
about whether the U.S. would support military action and whether
nuclear capability, short of assembling a bomb, was
unacceptable. “One walks away scratching his or her head as to
really where things stand,” said Cantor.  In an article last week on ForeignPolicy.com, Republican
strategists  Karl Rove  and  Ed Gillespie  said the Democratic
president is politically vulnerable on foreign policy issues and
that the Republican candidate should draw Jewish voters’
attention to Obama’s “naivete” in dealing with Iran.  Threat to Israel  “The Republican candidate must make clear the existential
threat to Israel from a nuclear-armed Iran, not only because it
would lead to a better policy but also because it will reduce
the president’s support among this key voting bloc,” they
wrote.  Obama’s top campaign strategist,  David Axelrod , called
their assessment “an absurd notion.” Obama’s “been a very
strong leader in this regard,” Axelrod said on ABC’s “This
Week” program. “If you don’t believe that, ask the remnants of
al-Qaeda who are on the run.”  As the Aipac forum opened yesterday, Republican Liz Cheney,
the daughter of former Republican Vice President  Dick Cheney ,
said in a panel discussion that “no president” in recent
history had done more than Obama to “delegitimize and
undermine” Israel than Obama, and predicted he would lose re-
election. Cheney drew a mix of applause and boos, reflecting the
divisions within the audience among Republican, independent and
Democratic Jews.  Political Football  Jane Harman , the former Democratic congresswoman from
 California  who heads the Woodrow Wilson International Center for
Scholars in  Washington  and was on the same panel, countered by
saying it was a “grave mistake” to turn support for Israel
“into a political football.”  Obama’s remarks satisfied some audience members while
others remained uneasy about the level or timing of a U.S.
military commitment to Israel against Iran.  Obama supporter Jeffrey Rush, a 71-year-old real estate
developer from Santa Monica, California, said the president
succeeded in “100-percent reaffirming” his confidence and had
counteracted doubts raised by “naysayers.”  Harvey Belfer, 73, of Paradise Valley,  Arizona , said he
hopes the U.S. would support Israel militarily, though Obama
didn’t specifically say the U.S. would support a preemptive
Israeli strike on Iran.  “I’m not 100 percent sure until someone makes that
statement,” Belfer, a retired investor, said.  Netanyahu’s View  Netanyahu said he was gratified to hear Obama reiterate his
position that Iran mustn’t be allowed to build a nuclear weapon
and that the option of using military force remains.  “I appreciated that he made clear that when it comes to a
nuclear-armed Iran containment is not an option,” Netanyahu
said in Ottawa before leaving for Washington.  The Israeli leader also cited Obama’s affirmation that
Israel has the right to act on its own if needed. “I very much
appreciated the fact that he said Israel has the right to defend
itself by itself against any threat,” he said.  Republican presidential candidate  Ron Paul , a Texas
congressman, said the U.S. shouldn’t interfere in the Iran-
Israel standoff.  “It doesn’t make any sense to bomb a country that is no
threat to anybody just because they might get a weapon,” Paul
said on CNN’s “State of the Union” program. “I’d try to calm
it down a little bit,” he said, “but I don’t think we should
tell Israel what they should and shouldn’t do.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  