-- Oil Edges Higher on Iran Tension
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-03-05T20:39:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/oil-rises-as-obama-netanyahu-prepare-to-meet-about-iran-nuclear-program.html
Oil edged higher as U.S. President
 Barack Obama  and Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  met
to discuss how to confront Iran over its nuclear program and
 China  cut its economic growth target.  Futures posted the smallest move in 10 months after Obama
said in a meeting with Netanyahu today at the White House that
“all options” are available to prevent a nuclear-armed Iran.
Prices fell as much as 1.1 percent earlier as China’s Premier
 Wen Jiabao  said his country will aim for expansion of 7.5
percent this year, the lowest goal since 2004.  “There’s no clear, overall price direction,” said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in New
York. “If we don’t get a disruption in Iranian supply,
everything lines up in the bearish column. The geopolitical risk
adds $20 to $30 barrel to the price, allowing us to ignore the
market fundamentals.”  Oil for April delivery rose 2 cents to settle at $106.72 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . It was the smallest
one-day move since April 25. Prices are up 8 percent this year.  Brent oil for April settlement increased 15 cents to end
the session at $123.80 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange in  London . The European benchmark’s  premium  to
West Texas Intermediate futures widened to $17.08 a barrel from
$16.95 on March 2. Brent has gained 15 percent in 2012.  The U.S. won’t hesitate to use military force against Iran
if necessary, Obama told a conference of the American Israel
Public Affairs Committee yesterday. There’s still time for
diplomacy and sanctions to work, he said.  Netanyahu said today that Israel must remain “the master
of its fate” in deciding whether a military strike is necessary
to prevent  Iran  from building a nuclear weapon.  Strait of Hormuz  Iran may shut the Strait of Hormuz if the country is
threatened, Masoud Jazayeri, the country’s deputy chief of
military staff, said in an interview, according to Iraq’s Biladi
television. The waterway is a transit route for a fifth of the
world’s oil.  “We’re rising and falling on the latest Iranian
headlines,” said  Phil Flynn , an analyst at PFGBest in  Chicago .
“Concerns about Iran are going to keep a floor under this
market. We started weaker today because of the Chinese growth
forecast, but seem to have shrugged that off.”  Wen announced China’s GDP goal while delivering a state-of-
the-nation speech to about 3,000 lawmakers at the annual meeting
of the National People’s Congress in Beijing today. The growth
target matched the median forecast of 15 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News last month.  Chinese Demand  China is the second-biggest oil-consuming country after the
U.S. The two nations were responsible for 32 percent of global
oil consumption in 2010, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical
Review of World Energy released on June 8. The 17 countries
using the euro accounted for about 12 percent of world demand
last year, BP figures show.  European services and manufacturing output shrank in
February, Markit Economics said. An  index  based on a survey of
purchasing managers in euro-area service industries fell to 48.8
from 50.4 in January, London-based Markit Economics said on its
website today. The  manufacturing gauge  came in at 49. A reading
below 50 indicates contraction.  Iraq is pumping more than 3 million barrels a day of crude,
its highest average output since  Saddam Hussein  seized power in
the country 33 years ago, the oil minister said. BP Plc and
 Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB)  have made separate bids to develop the Kirkuk
oil field in northern Iraq, Abdul Kareem al-Luaibi said today at
a news conference in Baghdad.  Iraqi Output  Iraq’s average daily output reached 3.49 million barrels in
1979, the year Hussein took control as president. Production
plunged as the country fought three wars until Hussein was
ousted by U.S.-led forces in 2003.  “There’s a lot of bearish news out there,” Evans said.
“China’s growth is set to slow and the European economy is
limping along. On the supply side, we have increasing Iraqi and
Libyan output.”  Libyan production rose 200,000 barrels to 1.125 million in
February, the highest level in a year, according to Bloomberg
figures. Output in the country tumbled to 45,000 barrels a day
in August from 1.585 million in January 2011, the last month
before an uprising that overthrew the government of  Muammar Qaddafi  disrupted output.  Bullish Bets  Hedge funds  increased net-long positions in  New York  crude
oil by 5 percent to 272,032 in the seven days ended Feb. 28,
according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s
Commitments of Traders report. Wagers gained a fourth week to
the highest level since May 3, the report showed.  “The biggest news I see is the Commitment of Traders
report,” said Bill O’Grady, chief market strategist at
Confluence Investment Management in  St. Louis . “The hedge funds
are really loaded up. When there’s this much length, you run a
big risk that there be a big correction.”  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 451,036
contracts as of 3:17 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 625,949
contracts on March 2, 1.8 percent above the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.56 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  