-- Killing U.S. Terrorism Suspects Overseas Defended by Holder
-- B y   S e t h   S t e r n
-- 2012-03-05T21:44:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/holder-killing-u-s-terror-suspects-abroad-lawful.html
The U.S. can lawfully kill terrorism
suspects abroad, including American citizens who pose an
immediate threat and can’t feasibly be captured, Attorney
General Eric Holder said.  Holder’s comments, in a speech being delivered today in
 Chicago , marked the Obama administration’s highest profile
defense of killings that target terror suspects since an
American drone strike in Yemen last September killed Anwar al- Awlaki, a U.S.-born al-Qaeda recruiter and propagandist.  Holder didn’t justify specific killings. Under U.S. law,
the U.S. can kill specific senior leaders of al-Qaeda and
associated groups, Holder said in prepared remarks released by
the  Justice Department . He also described circumstances that
would justify the use of lethal force against a U.S. citizen who
is a senior operational leader of al-Qaeda or associated forces
and is “actively engaged in planning to kill Americans.”  “The unfortunate reality is that our nation will likely
continue to face terrorist threats that, at times, originate
with our own citizens,” Holder said in the speech, being
delivered at Northwestern University law school. “When such
individuals take up arms against this country and join al-Qaeda
in plotting attacks designed to kill their fellow Americans,
there may be only one realistic and appropriate response.”  Holder said a targeted killing of a U.S. citizen is lawful
if the individual poses an “imminent threat of violent
attack,” capture isn’t feasible and the operation is conducted
“in a manner consistent with applicable law of war principles”
such as the target having “definite military value.”  ‘Time-Sensitive Question’  Determining whether capture is feasible “is a fact-
specific and potentially time-sensitive question” that depends
on whether there’s enough time to prevent a terrorist attack and
whether it would require “undue risk” to civilians or U.S.
personnel, Holder said.  “Given the nature of how terrorists act and where they
tend to hide, it may not always be feasible to capture a  United
States  citizen terrorist who presents an imminent threat of
violent attack,” Holder said. “In that case, our government
has the clear authority to defend the United States with lethal
force.”  The Obama administration has faced calls from the  American
Civil Liberties Union  to make public the legal justification for
killings that target terrorism suspects since the drone strike
against al-Awlaki.  Airplane Plot  Al-Awlaki masterminded the attempted bombing of a Detroit-
bound airplane in 2009, according to a sentencing memo filed
last month by federal prosecutors in the case against the
bomber, Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab.  U.S. counter-terrorism officials have said al-Awlaki, via
the website of al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, also helped
inspire a U.S. Army major to kill 13 people and wound 29 at Fort
Hood,  Texas  in 2009.  The ACLU unsuccessfully sued the U.S. government in 2010,
challenging the killing of American citizens without judicial
oversight as a violation of their due process rights.  “They are essentially arguing that the president should be
able to order the extra-judicial killing of any American who he
deems to be an enemy of the state and there’s no judicial review
before the fact and no judicial review after the fact,” said
Jameel Jaffer, the ACLU’s deputy legal director in a telephone
interview yesterday. “It’s difficult to understand how that
claim could possibly be consistent with the Constitution.”  Obtaining Permission  The president isn’t required to obtain permission from a
federal judge in advance to ensure a citizen’s rights to due
process are protected, Holder said.  The executive branch must also have the flexibility to
prosecute terrorism-related cases in both civilian courts and
military commissions, Holder said.  Holder’s speech is the second law school address by a top
Obama administration defending the legality of targeted killings
in recent weeks. Jeh Johnson, the Pentagon’s general counsel,
said it was a “long-standing and long-legal practice,” in a
Feb. 22 speech at  Yale Law School  in  New Haven ,  Connecticut .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  