-- Holder Speech Said to Defend Targeting Killing of U.S. Citizens
-- B y   S e t h   S t e r n
-- 2012-03-05T03:29:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/holder-speech-said-to-defend-targeting-killing-of-u-s-citizens.html
U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder
will defend the targeting killings of terror suspects, including
U.S. citizens, in a speech tomorrow in  Chicago , according to a
person familiar with the address.  Holder’s speech at the Northwestern University law school
will be the Obama administration’s highest profile defense of
targeting killings since an American drone strike in Yemen last
September killed Anwar al-Awlaki, a U.S.-born al-Qaeda recruiter
and propagandist.  Holder will not mention al-Awlaki or any other individual
by name and instead will describe the broader legal framework
governing the use of lethal force, said the person, who was not
authorized to discuss the speech before it was delivered.  Al-Awlaki masterminded the attempted bombing of a Detroit-
bound airplane in 2009, according to a sentencing memo filed
last month by federal prosecutors in the case against the
bomber, Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab.  U.S. counter-terrorism officials have said al-Awlaki, via
the website of al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, also helped
inspire a U.S. Army major to kill 13 people and wound 29 at Fort
Hood,  Texas  in 2009.  A 2010 Justice Department memo said killing al-Awlaki would
be lawful if taking him alive wasn’t feasible, the New York
Times reported last October.  The  American Civil Liberties Union  unsuccessfully sued the
U.S. government in 2010, challenging targeted assassinations of
American citizens without judicial oversight as a violation of
their due process rights.  Holder’s speech is the second law school address by a top
Obama administration defending the legality of targeted killings
in recent weeks.  Jeh Johnson, the Pentagon’s general counsel, said it was a
“long-standing and long-legal practice,” in a Feb. 22 speech
at  Yale Law School  in New Haven,  Connecticut . Johnson cited the
U.S. Navy’s targeting and shooting down of an aircraft ferrying
the commander of the Japanese Navy during World War II.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  