-- Hollande’s Finance-Enemy Stance Gets Gallic Shrug as ECB Boosts French CAC
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s   a n d   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-03-06T14:44:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/hollande-s-finance-enemy-stance-gets-gallic-shrug-as-ecb-boosts-french-cac.html
Investors in French stocks are
greeting the nation’s presidential election with a Gallic shrug.  The  CAC 40 Index (CAC)  has risen about 8 percent this year as at
least part of the 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) in loans that
the  European Central Bank  has provided to banks since December
has trickled into the region’s equity markets.  Investors in  France  haven’t been spooked by pronouncements
from election frontrunner  Francois Hollande  that his “adversary
is finance.” They’ve also ignored threats of a transaction tax
backed by Hollande and President  Nicolas Sarkozy . The rally may
be sustained by the ECB’s support for banks regardless of the
ballot’s outcome, said Jacques Porta, a fund manager who helps
oversee about $400 million at Ofi Patrimoine.  “Overall, it’s the ECB’s actions that will drive the
market,” said Paris-based Porta. “A Sarkozy win would be
rather positive for the market, while if Hollande wins, there
will be a short-term perturbation for stocks.”  Hollande, the Socialist candidate, would get 58 percent of
the vote in a second-round runoff, against 42 percent for
Sarkozy, according to an LH2 poll published March 4. The first
round of elections will be held April 22, with the top two
candidates facing off May 6.  “The markets won’t panic over a victory by one of the two
main parties,” said Matthieu Giuliani, who helps manage $4
billion at Paris-based Banque Palatine SA. “Neither would take
decisions that are too strong, like more extreme parties.”  Faceless Rival  Hollande, who has pledged to force banks to split their
investment banking and consumer units, limit bonuses and
increase corporate taxes, would become the first Socialist
President since  Francois Mitterrand ’s second term ended in 1995.  He told a crowd of more than 10,000 supporters during his
first campaign rally on Jan. 22 that he sees finance as a
“rival without a name, without a face.” He criticized “the
power of money,” pledging to ban French banks from operating
offshore and to cap executive pay.  “Francois Hollande could have a negative impact on
markets, but not as bad as in 1981,” when Mitterrand was
elected, Pierre-Olivier Beffy, chief economist at Exane BNP
Paribas in London, wrote in a note today. “Hollande is more
centrist than Mitterrand.”  The French market, measured by a general index in 1981,
tumbled 33 percent immediately after Mitterrand’s election,
according to  a report  by David Le Bris at Universite Paris-
Sorbonne et Orleans. The index slid 17.6 percent that year,
according to NYSE Euronext.  Bank Stocks  Although the current rally in French stocks may be extended
by the ECB funding, a victory for Hollande may hurt bank shares,
with investors saying his proposal to separate investment and
retail banking raises concerns.  “There won’t be a cataclysm if Hollande is elected,” said
Fabrice Seiman, co-chief executive officer of Lutetia Capital in
Paris, which oversees $100 million. “That said, there certainly
will be sectors that will suffer, like banks for example.”  BNP Paribas SA and  Societe Generale SA (GLE) , France’s two
biggest banks, have climbed about 17 percent and 38 percent
respectively in Paris trading this year.  Hollande proposes cutting the share of nuclear power in
France’s energy supply to 50 percent in 2025 from about 75
percent, a measure Sarkozy predicts will raise electricity
prices and cost thousands of jobs.  The Socialist candidate wants to boost levies on large
companies and impose a 75 percent income tax on annual earnings
of more than 1 million euros. He wants to renegotiate the Dec. 9
European fiscal treaty, advocated by  Germany ’s  Angela Merkel .  Stability Question  “The unknown is Hollande,” said Ofi’s Porta. “Hollande
is against the rule concerning budgetary discipline. Hollande’s
relationship with Merkel is terrible. That’s negative. That can
reinforce uncertainties.  Europe  needs more stability.”  Electricite de France SA , Europe’s biggest power generator,
which owns France’s 58 nuclear plants, may be hurt by Hollande’s
plan to curb such energy.  Utilities such as phone operator  France Telecom (FTE)  SA and GDF
Suez SA, a supplier of natural gas, that pay large dividends
also may take a hit, said David Finch, head of cross-sector
research at Exane BNP Paribas in Paris.  “For a number of big French companies, like  France Telecom 
or GDF Suez, it’s going to encourage smaller dividends, which
won’t be great for share prices,” he said.  The benchmark CAC 40 index was 2.5 percent lower at 3399.55
as of 3:33 p.m. in Paris.  Sarkozy’s Record  Sarkozy’s presidency has been marked by global economic
crises almost from the start. Since he took office on May 16,
2007, the CAC 40  has slumped  43 percent. The French economy
slowed to 1.6 percent in 2011 from 2.3 percent in 2007, and
jobless claims jumped by 5.6 percent to 2.87 million, the
highest since September 1999.  Standard & Poor’s  stripped France
of its top debt rating on Jan. 13.  In an effort to overcome the global economic headwinds,
Sarkozy’s Union for a  Popular Movement  watered down the 35-hour
workweek instituted by the Socialist government of Prime
Minister Lionel Jospin, limited taxes on France’s wealthiest and
cut business rates to encourage investment.  He pushed through a two-year increase in the  retirement age 
to 62 to reduce the government’s budget deficit, which the
European Union forecasts will be 5.9 percent of gross domestic
product this year.  Sarkozy announced an increase in France’s value-added-tax
last month to compensate for reductions in payroll charges.
Hollande said he would reverse Sarkozy’s plan.  European Neighbors  “Whatever government is elected, it won’t have a lot of
room to maneuver to do things much differently,” said Frederic Plisson, a  fund manager  at Financiere de l’Echiquier in Paris,
which oversees $6.6 billion. “We’ll all be taxed a lot more.”  France is faring better than some euro-region neighbors.
The economy grew at an annual rate of 1.4 percent in the fourth
quarter, twice the 0.7 percent for the euro area, according to
government data. The French government expects the economy to
expand 0.5 percent this year.  The CAC 40’s rally this year has outperformed the 6.5
percent increase in the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  of the region’s
biggest companies as ECB President  Mario Draghi  offered
unlimited three-year loans to European banks.  ECB Funds  The Frankfurt-based central bank allocated 529.5 billion
euros in three-year loans to 800 banks on Feb. 29, topping the
489 billion euros handed out to 523 lenders in the first such
operation in December.  U.S. reports from employment to manufacturing have beaten
economists’ forecasts since the second half of 2011, spurring
optimism that the world’s biggest economy is strong enough to
drive global growth.  Investors can safely ignore Hollande’s “populist
rhetoric,” said Exane BNP’s Finch.  “It’s to appeal to people’s dislike of bankers being paid
bonuses,” he said. “The ECB action is infinitely more
important for stocks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexis Xydias in  London  at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net ;
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  