-- London Police Were Obsessed With Portrayal in Tabloids, Former Chief Says
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-03-05T19:10:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/london-police-obsessed-with-tabloid-headlines-ex-chief-stephenson-says.html
The Metropolitan Police commissioner
who resigned as a result of News Corp.’s phone-hacking scandal
told a judge-led inquiry into media ethics that commanders were
“obsessed” with their portrayals in tabloid headlines.  Paul Stephenson , who led the force during part of the
voice-mail interception probe of News Corp.’s News of the World
newspaper, said it was difficult for himself and others to
ignore media reporting that was often “unfair.” The scandal at
 Rupert Murdoch ’s U.K. unit triggered the inquiry in  London .  “It is very difficult if you are the subject of unfair
reporting,” Stephenson said at the inquiry in London today.
“It’s very difficult to be very detached about it, so one can
become obsessed about the headlines.”  As the extent of the phone-hacking scandal became apparent
in July, Stephenson resigned over his links to a former News of
the World executive editor, Neil Wallis, who was hired as a
public relations adviser to the police. Wallis was arrested in
the hacking probe three days before Stephenson stepped down.  News Corp. (NWSA)  is now the subject of three investigations,
including a police-bribery probe that resulted in 11 arrests of
current and former journalists at its Sun tabloid. Murdoch
closed the 168-year-old News of the World in July to try to
contain public anger after it was revealed reporters had hacked
into the mobile-phone messages of a murdered schoolgirl in 2002.  Champneys Health Resort  Stephenson said he decided to resign when a newspaper
reported that Wallis was a media consultant for the Champneys
health resort when he stayed there following surgery on his leg.
One of his deputies,  John Yates , resigned amid allegations he
wrongfully secured a job for Wallis’s daughter.  Stephenson also told the inquiry, led by Judge Brian Leveson, that he suspected members of the force’s management
board were leaking to reporters, leading to “disharmony” at
the force known as Scotland Yard.  “There were stories about conversations in the private
management board that I can’t imagine how they would have got
there any other way,” Stephenson said. “There was a little too
much gossiping about things that ought to be confidential.”  Stephenson told a lawyer for the inquiry today he often
paid for drinks and meals with newspaper editors and frequently
met them after he became deputy commissioner in 2005 and
commissioner in 2009. Several of the meetings were with Wallis,
he said.  Press, Police Relationship  The inquiry into the relationship between the press and
police was called for after earlier probes of voice-mail
interceptions at Murdoch’s Sunday tabloid in 2006 and 2009
failed to uncover the extent of the practice. An inquiry lawyer,
Robert Jay, said last week the public feared the police and News
Corp.’s U.K. unit, News International, had a possibly
“corrupt” relationship.  Elizabeth Filkin, the former head of investigations into
wrongdoing in Parliament, told Leveson today about an internal
police report she published in January about the relationship
between the force and the press. Her study found police were too
close to the media and that officers should beware of drinking
with reporters and potential “flirting” by journalists.  “Most of the people I spoke to in the Met felt there was
excessive hospitality” with the press, Filkin said today.
“People were saying it isn’t a proper thing for public
servants” who must be seen as independent “to be receiving a
lot of hospitality from particular individuals or businesses.”  ‘Calling in Favors’  Filkin also said there is a problem with former Met
employees “very quickly joining the media” or becoming private
investigators and “calling in favors” from the police force.  In a related matter, the FBI is investigating allegations
that a billboard company formerly owned by News Corp. bribed
Russian officials in violation of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act, according to a person familiar with the matter.  The Federal Bureau of Investigation’s New York office is
already monitoring a probe by U.K. police into allegations that
journalists at the company’s British newspapers paid police
officers and government officials for story tips.  Now the FBI is investigating whether News Outdoor  Russia , a
billboard company News Corp.  sold  in July, paid bribes to local
officials to secure the best sites for its outdoor ad messages,
according to the person, who refused to be identified because
the investigation isn’t public.  Standard Practice  The expansion of the existing FCPA probe to unrelated
activities in Russia is standard practice during corruption
investigations, the person said. Whenever there’s an FCPA
inquiry, investigators try to review the subject company’s
behavior around the world, not just in one location, the person
added.  As for the U.K. investigation, it isn’t clear whether U.S.
prosecutors would interpret the U.K. payments as a violation of
the FCPA, which was originally intended to stop payments to
foreign government officials to gain a competitive advantage.  Julie Henderson , a spokeswoman for News Corp., declined to
comment on the Russia matter. The billboard investigation was
reported earlier in the Wall Street Journal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  