-- London Luxury-Home Price Gains Slow Pace
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2012-03-05T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/london-luxury-home-price-gains-slow-as-more-property-is-for-sale.html
Luxury-home prices in central  London 
climbed at the slowest rate in five months in February as more
owners put properties on the market to profit from 16 months of
gains, Knight Frank LLP said.  Values of houses and apartments costing about 3.7 million
pounds ($5.9 million) rose by an average of 11.6 percent from a
year earlier, the London-based broker said in a  report  today.
Prices advanced 0.7 percent from January and are now 8.9 percent
higher than the market’s last low point in March 2009.  Overseas investors have turned to London real estate to
preserve wealth as they face political, economic and financial
upheaval in their home markets. This year, Italian purchasers
replaced Russians as the biggest group of non-U.K. buyers,
accounting for 8 percent of all transactions, Knight Frank said.  Liam Bailey , head of residential research, said prices for
high-end houses and apartments in central London will probably
gain about 5 percent this year, repeating an October forecast.
“The longer prime house prices continue to rise, the obvious
question continues to emerge -- will these rises eventually be
replaced by falls?” he said.  In the U.K. as a whole, residential property prices rose
0.9 percent in February from a year earlier as first-time buyers
took advantage of a  tax exemption  that expires this month,
 Nationwide Building Society  said March 1.  Knight Frank compiles its luxury-homes index from its own
appraisal values of a sample of the same properties in the 13
most expensive neighborhoods of central London, including
Belgravia, Kensington and Knightsbridge.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 