-- Orders to U.S. Factories Fell in January for First Time in Three Months
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-03-05T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/orders-to-u-s-factories-fell-in-january-for-first-time-in-three-months.html
Orders to U.S. factories decreased in
January for the first time in three months, a sign manufacturing
is cooling at the beginning of the year.  Bookings (TMNOCHNG)  fell 1 percent after a revised 1.4 percent gain in
December that was larger than previously estimated, figures from
the Commerce Department showed today in  Washington . The  median  of
61 economists’ projections in a Bloomberg News survey called for
a 1.5 percent decline.  Rising  oil prices  and the expiration of a tax credit at the
end of 2011 that supported business investment represent a risk
to American manufacturers. At the same time, the need to rebuild
inventories and replace outdated equipment may help keep
factories at the forefront of the economic expansion.  “Manufacturing has been the strongest link in this recovery
and it continues to grow, but maybe the impact of the sharp rise
in energy costs is beginning to take a toll on growth,”  Joel
Naroff , president of Naroff Economic Advisors Inc. in Holland,
 Pennsylvania , said before the report. “The big unknown remains
oil prices.”  Economists’ estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from a
decline of 3 percent to a gain of 0.5 percent. The Commerce
Department revised the December gain up from a previously
estimated 1.1 percent increase.  Bookings for goods meant to least at least three years
decreased 3.7 percent in January, less than the 4 percent drop
the government estimated in a Feb. 28 report.  Investment Cools  Orders for capital goods excluding aircraft and military
equipment, a measure of future business investment, fell 3.9
percent, also less than estimated last week, after rising 3.5
percent in December.  Shipments of such equipment, which are used in calculating
gross domestic product, decreased 3 percent after a 2.8 percent
advance in December.  The expiration at the end of 2011 of a tax incentive
allowing full depreciation on equipment purchases may have
prompted a slowdown in orders at the start of this year. The
allowance this year dropped to 50 percent.  Bookings for non-durable goods, including petroleum and
chemicals, rose 1.3 percent, today’s report showed.  Factory inventories climbed 0.6 percent in January, and
manufacturers had enough goods on hand to last 1.33 months at the
current sales pace, the same as in December.  Auto Sales  Improving demand for autos will probably keep manufacturing
growing. Cars and light trucks sold at a 15 million annual rate
last month, according to  industry data . It was the strongest
month since February 2008.  “It’s very encouraging to see the recovery of retail
sales,” Jenny Lin, a senior U.S. economist at  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,
said last week on a conference call. “As people are returning to
jobs, as employment conditions continue to improve, you will see
people going for the new vehicles.”  The  Federal Reserve  is among those highlighting the
importance of autos in stimulating gains in investment spending
and production.  “Manufacturing continued to expand at a steady pace across
the nation,” with “several districts indicating gains in
 capital spending , especially in auto-related industries,” the
Fed said Feb. 29 in its Beige Book business survey, published two
weeks before the  Federal Open Market Committee  meets to set
monetary policy.  Business investment slowed last quarter as the depreciation
credit was about to end. Corporate spending on equipment and
software rose at a 4.8 percent annual rate from October through
December, down from the prior period’s 16 percent gain.  Another report showed that the industry that has powered the
two-year expansion is cooling. The  Institute for Supply
Management ’s  factory index  fell to 52.4 from 54.1 in January, the
Tempe, Arizona-based group said last week. Readings above 50
signal growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  