-- Osborne Should Boost Aid for Companies as U.K. Recovery Weakens, BCC Says
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-03-05T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/osborne-should-boost-aid-for-companies-as-u-k-recovery-weakens-bcc-says.html
The U.K. government should bolster
aid to companies to help them weather headwinds from  Europe ’s
debt crisis, the British Chambers of Commerce said as it cut its
forecast for the economy.  The London-based business lobby lowered its 2012 growth
projection to 0.6 percent from 0.8 percent in December, it said
in a report today. It pushed out its forecast for the first Bank
of England  interest-rate  increase to the end of 2013 from the
first quarter of that year.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne , who will
present his budget in Parliament on March 21, has scope to help
businesses without jeopardizing investor confidence or the
U.K.’s top credit rating, the BCC said. The  U.K. economy 
contracted 0.2 percent in the fourth quarter as company
investment fell.  “The U.K. economy faces serious challenges, with problems
in the  euro zone  creating difficulties for exporters, combined
with dampened domestic demand,” John Longworth, director
general of the BCC, said in the statement. “There is room
within the current spending envelope for measures that will
encourage firms to export, invest and grow.”  The government should forgo a 5.6 percent increase in
business rates due in April and start a program to ease the flow
of credit to businesses, the BCC said. Since his fiscal squeeze
has already put him in line to undershoot borrowing forecasts in
the current fiscal year by 8 billion pounds ($12.7 billion),
Osborne has room to support companies with 4 billion pounds of
stimulus, said  David Kern , BCC chief economist.  ‘Questionable’ Benefits  The  Bank of England  is “unlikely” to raise its  bond-
purchase target  above the current 325 billion pounds since “the
benefits of such a move are questionable,” the BCC said. The
bank raised the target by 50 billion pounds last month.  U.K.  business confidence  rose last month to the highest
since September, Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets said in a
separate report today. The index of optimism compared with three
months earlier rose 12 points to 1, reducing the risk that the
economy will contract again in the current quarter.  Recruitment company Reed said that its gauge of new jobs
rose 17 points in February from the previous month to 140, the
highest since the series began in December 2009. Measures for
eleven private industries rose to record highs, including
engineering and recruitment. A gauge of salaries at new jobs
rose 2 points to 100, the highest since March 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  