-- Moscow Police Arrest Hundreds Amid Protests After Putin Victory
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   A n t o n   D o r o s h e v
-- 2012-03-05T21:19:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/moscow-police-arrest-hundreds-amid-protests-after-putin-victory.html
Moscow police detained more than 200
people after thousands of protesters rallied in central Moscow
the day after Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  claimed
victory in a presidential election that international observers
criticized as unfair.  About 250 people were detained yesterday, along with
opposition leader Alexei Navalny, activists Ilya Yashin and
Sergei Udaltsov and the head of the banned National Bolshevik
Party,  Eduard Limonov , the Moscow City Police said in a
 statement.   The opposition is seeking to maintain pressure on Putin
after the Russian leader won another six years in the Kremlin
with about 64 percent of yesterday’s presidential vote,
according to the official tally. Putin, 59, has held power in
Russia for 12 years, including the last four as premier.  “Putin threw down a challenge to us all,”  Sergei Mitrokhin , leader of the pro-democracy Yabloko party, told the
gathering at Pushkin Square, estimated by organizers at 20,000
people. “From this moment on, the real battle starts.”  Crowd numbers were lower than during protests over alleged
fraud in December parliamentary elections that marked the
biggest unrest during Putin’s rule. Navalny called for new
tactics, including a campaign of civil disobedience and sit-ins.  “Putin is facing a difficult third term,” Lilit Gevorgyan,  Russia  analyst at IHS Global Insight in  London , said
by e-mail. “Here the opposition and the Russian public have an
important role to play.”  Vote Violations  A competing pro-Putin rally of 15,000 people took place
near the Kremlin yesterday, a day after more than 100,000 people
attended the premier’s victory celebration there, state
television said.  Observers from the Organization for Security and
Cooperation in  Europe  identified violations including ballot-
stuffing at one-third of the polling stations monitored by the
democracy watchdog.  The election “didn’t meet important democratic
standards,” Tonino Picula from the OSCE’s parliamentary
assembly told reporters in Moscow. “The point of an election is
that the outcome should be uncertain. This was not the case in
Russia.”  The U.S. State Department said it’s looking forward to
working with Putin after the election results are certified and
he’s sworn in. It also endorsed the OSCE’s preliminary report.  “We urge the Russian government to conduct an independent,
credible investigation of all reported electoral violations,”
Spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said in an e-mailed statement.  Communist leader  Gennady Zyuganov , who came in second place
with about 17 percent of the vote, refused to congratulate Putin
or to recognize his election win.  Putin insists he obtained a fair victory.  “We won in an open and honest fight,” he told backers
hours after polls closed. “We showed that our people can easily
distinguish between a desire for novelty and renewal from
political provocations which have only one goal: to destroy
Russian statehood and usurp power.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Anton Doroshev in Moscow at 
 adoroshev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  