-- U.K. Stocks Decline for Second Day on Economy; Weir Slides, Misys Gains
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-03-05T17:18:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/most-u-k-stocks-decline-weir-retreats-bp-advances.html
U.K. stocks  had the biggest two-day
decline since January as China reduced its economic-growth
target and euro-area services and manufacturing output fell more
than expected.  Glencore International Plc led mining stocks lower after
reporting a drop in earnings. Weir Group Plc, the world’s
biggest maker of pumps for the  mining industry , retreated after
Citigroup Inc. advised selling the shares. BP Plc advanced 1.6
percent after reaching a settlement with victims of the 2010
Deepwater Horizon oil-rig disaster.  The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  decreased 36.31, or 0.6
percent, to 5,874.82 at the close in London, bringing its two-
day slide to 1 percent. The gauge has still rallied 5.4 percent
this year as the  European Central Bank  lent more than 1 trillion
euros ($1.3 trillion) for three years to the region’s banks to
ease liquidity. The broader  FTSE All-Share Index (ASX)  sank 0.7
percent today and Ireland’s ISEQ Index fell 1.2 percent.  “There is a big concern about growth,” said Guillaume Duchesne, an equity strategist at BGL BNP Paribas SA in
Luxembourg. “Growth is anemic. The market has advanced a lot
recently and the potential for more gains is limited. It’s
logical that investors are locking in profits.”  China  reduced its growth target to 7.5 percent this year,
the lowest goal since 2004, according to a state-of-the-nation
speech that Premier  Wen Jiabao  delivered to about 3,000
lawmakers at the annual meeting of the National People’s
Congress in Beijing today. The government had had an 8 percent
goal in place since 2005.  Euro-Area Economy  European services and manufacturing output shrank more than
estimated in February as the euro-area economy struggled to
rebound from a contraction in the fourth quarter. A euro-area
 composite index  based on a survey of purchasing managers dropped
to 49.3 from 50.4 in January, Markit Economics said. That’s
below an initial figure of 49.7 published on Feb. 22. A reading
below 50 indicates contraction.  Stocks extended losses after Greek Finance Minister
Evangelos Venizelos said the country is ready to force a debt
restructuring plan on bondholders if necessary. The success of
the 106 billion-euro debt swap depends on how many investors
agree to the writedown by the March 8 deadline.  In the U.S., the Institute for Supply Management’s non-
manufacturing report showed its employment gauge fell to 55.7 in
February from 57.4 in the prior month.  Glencore Drops  Glencore (GLEN) , the world’s largest publicly traded commodities
supplier, retreated 4 percent to 403.35 pence. Net income
excluding exceptional items in the six months ended Dec. 31 was
$1.61 billion, the Baar, Switzerland-based company said. That
compares with $2.28 billion a year earlier.  Separately, Glencore said it was told to halt production
from a plant at its Mopani copper operation in Zambia by the
state environmental agency.  Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg said the company’s
23 billion-pound ($36.3 billion) all-share offer for  Xstrata Plc (XTA) 
is a “fair price,” rebuffing calls from some investors to
raise the bid. Xstrata declined 4.9 percent to 1,137.5 pence.  Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ) , Kazakhstan’s biggest copper producer, lost
4.9 percent to 951.5 pence. The stock was cut to “neutral”
from “overweight” at HSBC Holdings Plc, which said that its
rally so far this year leaves it with less potential for gains.  Fresnillo Plc (FRES) , which produces silver and gold, retreated
3.4 percent to 1,832 pence. Copper, silver and gold fell in
London trading.  Weir Downgrade  Weir sank 4.7 percent to 1,939 pence as the stock was cut
to  “sell” (WEIR)  from “neutral” at Citigroup.  BP climbed 1.6 percent to 504.6 pence. Europe’s second-
biggest oil producer struck a deal with businesses and
individuals that was lower than the $14 billion that had been
discussed, according to people familiar with the talks.  BP (BP/) ’s
Chief Financial Officer, Brian Gilvary, said that the company is
prepared to settle with the U.S. government for penalties under
the  Clean Water Act  if the terms are fair.  Dunelm Group, a U.K. retailer of budget home furnishings,
slid 5.1 percent to 482.8 pence. Executive Deputy Chairman Will Adderley and his wife sold 7.5 million shares at 480 pence
apiece. Adderley is the son of the company’s founders.  Amlin Plc (AML)  retreated 4.4 percent to 336 pence as the largest
Lloyd’s of London insurer by market value posted a bigger-than-
estimated annual loss after the worst year for natural disasters
on record.  Serco Sinks  Serco Group Plc (SRP) , which provides outsourcing to governments,
lost 5.9 percent to 527 pence as Bank of America Corp.
downgraded the stock to “neutral” from “buy.”  Misys Plc (MSY)  jumped 6 percent to 335 pence. CVC Capital
Partners Ltd. and ValueAct Capital are working on a joint cash
offer for Misys, increasing the number of suitors for the
British  software company . Misys said it’s also still in talks
with Temenos Group AG and Vista Equity Partners and that it has
formed an independent committee of board directors to consider
all offers.  Intertek Group Plc (ITRK)  advanced 2.5 percent to 2,372 pence. The
world’s biggest consumer-goods testing company said it expects
high single-digit organic growth in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  