-- Loughner’s Forced Psychiatric Drugging by Prison Doctors Upheld on Appeal
-- B y   P a m e l a   M a c L e a n   a n d   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-03-05T20:07:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/loughner-s-forced-psychiatric-drugging-by-prison-doctors-upheld-on-appeal.html
Federal prison doctors may force
antipsychotic drugs on Jared Lee Loughner, charged with killing
six people and trying to assassinate U.S. Representative
 Gabrielle Giffords , on the grounds he is a danger to himself, a
U.S. appeals court ruled.  The San Francisco-based court ruled today by a 2-1 vote
that there was no violation of Loughner’s constitutional due
process rights when prison doctors were permitted to forcibly
medicate him with antipsychotic drugs.  The panel also said a judge doesn’t need to be involved in
the dangerousness determination -- only the prison medical
staff.  The U.S. Supreme Court previously said it is permissible,
after a hearing before a judge, to forcibly drug pretrial
detainees such as Loughner to restore their competence to stand
trial, according to today’s ruling.  Loughner hasn’t yet had a competency hearing, so the issue
of judicial consent for forced drugging need not be confronted
yet, because the prison dangerousness issue came first,
according to the court.  U.S. District Judge Larry Burns in  San Diego  allowed prison
doctors in June to give Loughner antipsychotic drugs against his
will, because he was considered dangerous. The order came over
the objections of Loughner’s lawyer.  Prison Doctors  Circuit Judge Marsha Berzon dissented from today’s ruling,
saying the majority allowed the trial judge to abdicate to
Loughner’s prison doctors the responsibility to decide if he is
to be restored to trial competency through involuntary
medication.  Giffords, a Democrat, was among 13 wounded in a Jan. 8,
2011, shooting rampage outside a Tucson, Arizona, supermarket
where she was holding a community meeting. Bystanders wrestled
Loughner to the ground. Giffords survived a gunshot wound
through her head. She resigned in January.  U.S. District Judge John Roll was among those killed.  Loughner, 23, has pleaded not guilty to murder and
attempted murder charges in federal court.  The case is U.S. v. Loughner,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the
Ninth Circuit ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net 
Pamela MacLean in San Francisco at  pmaclean@pacbell.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  