-- Paralyzed Kids Employ Florida Lobbyists With Millions at Stake
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2012-03-05T22:17:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/paralyzed-kids-employ-florida-lobbyists-with-millions-at-stake.html
Watching over comatose Eric Brody
after a South  Florida (BEESFL)  sheriff’s deputy smashed into the 18-year-
old’s AMC Concord in 1998 were his parents, his doctors -- and
his lobbyist.  Fourteen years later, Brody is a 32-year-old paraplegic
with three firms trying to persuade lawmakers in Tallahassee to
grant him more than the $200,000 that Florida law permits him to
collect from jury awards against the state. Today the  House of
Representatives  voted to give him $10.75 million. His lobbying
team may collect as much as $2.7 million of that.  Opposing Brody: 23 lobbyists for the Broward County
Sheriff’s Office and two units of  Fairfax Financial Holdings
Inc. (FFH) , a Toronto-based insurer. The sheriff’s office and the
companies spent $1.2 million from 2009 through 2011 on
lobbyists, including two ex-Senate presidents and a former state
 Supreme Court  justice, records show.  Florida lawmakers this year introduced bills to grant such
claims for 57 people or their estates, the most in five years,
according to legislative records. In the Capitol of the fourth-
most-populous state, Brody’s case has become emblematic of these
high-stakes battles in which lobbyists and lawyers may pocket
millions while arguing about justice for the wrongly imprisoned,
for paralyzed adults and for abused children.  “It seems to me those bills have become politicized,”
Republican House Speaker Dean Cannon, 43, told reporters last
month. “It’s less about compensating the individual claimant
who’s suffered a terrible injury and more about lobbying fees.”  Regal Right  The caps on awards against governments are part of so-
called sovereign-immunity laws and can be traced to British
doctrine that the king can’t be sued in his own court.  Florida 
is one of at least 33 states with such limits, according to the
 National Conference of State Legislatures .  They range from a low of $100,000 in  Nevada (STONV1)  to as much as
$1.5 million in  Oregon (STOOR1) , according to the NCSL. In  Pennsylvania ,
where  Pennsylvania State University  may seek to limit its
liability in the sex-abuse case involving former assistant
football coach Jerry Sandusky, awards are capped at $250,000.  Florida’s $200,000 ceiling, authorized by its 1968
constitution, applies to the state, its municipalities and
nongovernment entities that meet one of 13 criteria, including
some businesses that do work for the government. The  law  lets
legislators lift the limit with a so-called claim bill. Only
Nebraska and  North Dakota  have similar mechanisms, according to
the NCSL.  Capitol Celebrities  From 2007 to 2011, Florida’s Republican-controlled
Legislature waived caps 38 times and approved $82.5 million in
payments, or 59 percent more money than in the previous five
years, according to state reports.  This year, the law has made celebrities of Brody and
others, including William Dillon, a 52-year-old former Canova
Beach surfer cleared of murder after 27 years in prison, and
Aaron Edwards, a 14-year-old  Colorado (STOCO1)  boy paralyzed during his
delivery at a Fort Myers hospital.  Brody’s case began in Sunrise, near  Fort Lauderdale , on
March 3, 1998, as he turned left in his AMC into his
neighborhood after a night of selling sneakers at a mall. He was
hit by the deputy, late for work and speeding in his Crown
Victoria as fast as 70 miles per hour (113 kph), according to
state records. The Concord was hurled across a grass shoulder
and into a wall dividing the street from the subdivision.  With the Family  Though Brody, a disc jockey for his high-school radio
station who had hoped to start a business major the next year,
wore his seatbelt, he was thrown toward the passenger side of
the car, suffering broken ribs and a fractured skull that left
him in a coma for six months, according to state records.  Chuck Brody, his father, said lawyer-lobbyist Lance Block,
a former Florida Justice Association president, was hired while
Eric was hospitalized and has been at his side since the first
days. The Brodys sued the Broward Sheriff’s Office and won $30.9
million in damages in 2005, a sum upheld on appeal. Now, the
family must persuade lawmakers to let them have a portion.  Chuck Brody drives Eric and the rest of his family 460
miles (740 kilometers) to meetings in Tallahassee, where Block
argues for his son. Brody, with black tape wrapped around his
wheelchair’s worn armrests, has made at least five trips this
session.  He and the other victims have become Capitol fixtures.
Edwards, who speaks through a computer, had lawmakers in tears
during a February meeting.  Making the Case  Dillon, whose $1.35 million compensation bill Governor  Rick Scott  signed March 1 in a public ceremony, said that despite
their compelling stories, individuals need lobbyists to tell
them. His bill, championed by Republican Senate President Mike Haridopolos and two lobbyists who took the case for free, needed
four years to pass.  “I couldn’t have done this by myself,” Dillon, now a
musician in  Chapel Hill ,  North Carolina , said in a Capitol
interview. “Everybody kept turning their nose and frowning at
it like it was some sort of cancer lesion.”  Opponents’ lobbying has intensified, too.  “These types of cases used to be the sleepy backwater,”
said Pete Antonacci, a lobbyist for  GrayRobinson , a Florida law
firm. “Not anymore.”  Antonacci and his firm work for insurers of at least six
defendants. They include Fairmont Specialty Insurance Co., which
insures the Broward sheriff’s office, and a subsidiary of
Southfield, Michigan-based  Meadowbrook Insurance Group Inc. (MIG)  In
five cases involving Antonacci’s clients that passed House
committees this year, claims were reduced to a total of $17
million from $38.5 million.  Discharging a Responsibility  The insurers also spend money on politicians directly.  Four of Fairmont’s fellow Fairfax subsidiaries --Riverstone
Claims Management LLC, Riverstone Resources LLC, TIG Insurance
and Ranger Insurance -- have given at least $212,000 to parties,
lawmakers and candidates since 2008, according to campaign-
finance records.  Insurers have never been so involved in claim bills, said
Ron Book, a Tallahassee lobbyist for more than two decades.  “That’s new,” he said. “But look: Carriers have some
responsibility to their shareholders, especially those who are
insuring based on a belief there is a doctrine of sovereign
immunity.”  Brody has his own powerhouse. One firm representing him is
Tallahassee-based Ballard Partners, whose clients include  Honda
Motor Co. (HMC)  and Major League Baseball’s  New York Yankees .  Money Everywhere  Brian Ballard, its president, is among Florida’s most
reliable fundraisers, collecting more than $3 million for
Scott’s inauguration last year and heading presidential
candidate  Mitt Romney ’s state money-raising operation this year.
His 116 clients include Jacksonville-based Blue Cross and Blue
Shield of Florida, which donated $2.4 million to politicians and
political action committees in 2011, and Automated Healthcare
Solutions. That Miramar company gave $2.3 million from July 28,
2010 to Dec. 28, 2011, records show.  And then there are the  trial lawyers .  Chris Searcy and his West Palm Beach-based Searcy Denney
Scarola Barnhart & Shipley represent Aaron Edwards, the
paralyzed teenager. Searcy and the firm gave $84,000 last year
to parties, political committees and lawmakers, including
Senator Anitere Flores, a Miami Republican sponsoring  a bill 
that might mean $3.8 million for the firm.  Hitting the Airwaves  Flores’s bill would allow a $15 million settlement for
Edwards, diagnosed with cerebral palsy after an error at Lee
Memorial Health System, a Fort Myers hospital with sovereign
immunity. A jury decided his condition was caused by oxygen
deprivation when workers gave Aaron’s mother too much Pitocin, a
hormone that stimulates contractions.  After the proposal stalled, a 30-second television ad aired
in February targeting state Representative Gary Aubuchon, a
Republican from Cape Coral and a U.S. House candidate. Aubuchon,
whose district includes the hospital, controls what measures the
House considers.  “Last year, the House refused to hear Aaron’s bill,” a
narrator says while an image of Aaron being hugged by his mother
plays on screen. “Representative Gary Aubuchon can change that.
Aaron can’t stand for himself. Mr. Aubuchon, this year, will you
stand for Aaron?”  The ad was paid for by Friends of Aaron Edwards LLC,
according to a disclaimer. The group is registered to Joan
Williams, the Searcy firm’s public relations director, state
records show.  Negotiating Pay  The House today voted 97-14 to make the hospital pay $15
million. The chamber also approved another change: Instead of
letting Aaron’s attorneys collect the 25 percent allowed under
the law, they would get 0.3 percent. The Senate bill, which has
not received a final vote, allows for 25 percent in fees.  A similar conflict is the last hurdle in Brody’s bill. Both
the House and Senate cut Brody’s jury verdict by two-thirds. The
Senate, however, would let Brody’s lawyers and lobbyists collect
25 percent of the award, while the House plan caps fees at
$400,000, or less than 4 percent. The chamber passed its plan
107-7.  Haridopolos said today that lobbying fees should be
“consistent” and the Senate might reverse the House changes in
the final days of the legislative session, which is scheduled to
end March 9.  “I want to get paid,” Block said. “I’ve worked on this
case for 14 years. But the most important thing is Eric gets his
money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Tallahassee at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  