-- PetroChina Chairman Says Refining Loss Larger Than Expected
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-05T04:29:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/petrochina-chairman-says-no-window-for-fuel-pricing-changes-now.html
PetroChina Co. (857) , the country’s
second-biggest refiner, said losses from processing crude last
year were larger than expected by the company as  oil prices  rose.  “Losses are widening,” Chairman Jiang Jiemin said in
Beijing today. “We can’t see a turnaround in the situation.
It’s larger” than the 50 billion yuan ($7.9 billion) loss
expected by the company, he said.  Refiners have posted losses from making gasoline and diesel
as government controls on fuel prices prevent them from passing
on higher crude costs to consumers. To help narrow their losses,
China is planning a new system that will allow retail fuel
prices to track global crude costs more closely.  “There’s no window to implement the new pricing mechanism
yet,” Jiang told reporters at the Great Hall of the People
during the opening of the country’s legislature.  China , which controls fuel prices to curb inflation,
introduced a pricing system in December 2008 that allows retail
fuel prices to be adjusted when the moving average of a basket
of three crude varieties changes more than 4 percent over 22
working days.  The NDRC, the country’s top economic planner, increased the
cost of gasoline and diesel for the first time in February since
July last year. Inflation in the world’s fastest-growing major
economy slowed to 4.5 percent in January from 6.5 percent in
July. Crude rose 8.2 percent in  New York  last year.  Russian Gas  PetroChina dropped 2.7 percent to HK$11.44 in  Hong Kong 
trading as of the midday break, the most since Dec. 15. The
 stock  has risen 5 percent in the past year, compared with the
8.6 percent decline in the benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  Negotiations with Russia on natural-gas imports are still
ongoing, Jiang said.  “All the basic conditions have been agreed upon, what’s
left is pricing,” he said. “Differences in price expectations
are quite big.”  Russia plans to sign supply deals with India and China this
year as it seeks to win customers outside of Europe, where
demand is waning. OAO Gazprom “optimistically expects” to cut
a deal with China this year, though pricing is still an issue,
Deputy Chairman  Alexander Medvedev  said on Feb. 16.  --Chua Baizhen. With assistance from Guo Aibing in Hong Kong.
Editors: Ryan Woo,  Mike Anderson .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Chua Baizhen in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net . 