-- Petronas Expects ‘Difficult’ 2012 After Profit
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2012-03-05T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/petronas-expects-difficult-2012-after-profit.html
Petroliam Nasional Bhd. (PET) , Malaysia’s
state oil company, posted 36 percent lower quarterly profit and
predicted a “difficult” 2012 as production declines and it
expects a drop in global fuel demand to reduce crude prices.  Net income fell to 13.5 billion ringgit ($4.5 billion) in
the three months ended Dec. 31 from 21.2 billion ringgit a year
earlier, when the sale of shares in two units boosted earnings,
the company known as  Petronas  said in a statement in  Kuala
Lumpur  yesterday. Excluding the one-time gain, profit increased
by 1.1 billion ringgit.  The  International Energy Agency  cut its 2012 global oil
demand forecast for a sixth month on Feb. 10 as a “darkening”
economic outlook reduced prospects for growth.  Malaysia ’s
government gets about a third of its revenue from Petronas in
dividends and taxes.  “Slower growth in Petronas’s earnings would have an impact
on the government’s revenue,” said Azrul Azwar Ahmad Tajudin,
Kuala Lumpur-based chief economist at Bank Islam Malaysia Bhd.
“The federal government should contain its expenditure and
diversify its revenue base.”  Petronas expects its average selling price for crude oil to
fall as much as 28 percent this year from the preceding three
quarters, Chief Executive Officer Shamsul Azhar Abbas said
today.  “This is going to be a very difficult year,” Shamsul said
at a media briefing on the earnings. “We see massive demand
destruction for oil and gas because of the impact of the world
economy growth.”  Oil Prices  The Malaysian company expects to sell oil at an average
price of $85 to $90 a barrel this year, Shamsul said, compared
with $118 in the previous financial year, which was shortened to
nine months as Petronas migrates to a new reporting timetable to
match the calendar year.  Crude  oil prices  in  New York  averaged $94.06 a barrel in
the three months ended Dec. 31 and were 10 percent higher than a
year earlier. Sales at Petronas rose 30 percent to 78 billion
ringgit in the quarter.  Petronas accounted for about a third of the Malaysian
government’s estimated 183 billion-ringgit revenue in 2011,
according to the  finance ministry . The company’s dividend and
direct taxes on petroleum products totaled 56 billion ringgit.  Dividend Payment  The oil producer agreed to pay 30 billion ringgit in
dividend for the last financial year, unchanged from the
previous two years. The Kuala Lumpur-based group’s ability to
maintain dividend payments may be curbed as it increases
spending to 300 billion ringgit over five years to find new
energy sources.  The company may switch to a payout ratio of 30 percent of
profit, Shamsul said on June 8.  Pretax profit in the nine months ended Dec. 31 reached 82.7
billion ringgit, exceeding the company’s projection of as much
as 70 billion ringgit, while net income rose 10 percent to 48.9
billion ringgit from a year earlier.  Petronas had a one-time gain of 9.3 billion ringgit in the
last quarter of 2010 after initial public offerings in two
units.  Petronas Chemicals Group Bhd. (PCHEM)  raised 12.8 billion ringgit
in November 2010 and Malaysia Marine & Heavy Engineering
Holdings Bhd., the rig-building arm of Petronas’s  MISC Bhd. (MISC) , had
a 2 billion-ringgit share sale a month earlier.  Output Decline  The company plans to increase spending on discovering new
energy reserves to help reverse a decline in production.  Malaysia’s oil and gas production has fallen for three
straight years, declining to the equivalent of 1.61 million
barrels of oil a day in the year ended March 31, 2011, from 1.63
million a day a year earlier, according to Petronas’s  annual
report .  The government has offered companies incentives to explore
deeper and less-profitable fields to increase reserves as energy
demand rises.  Petronas, which manages all of Malaysia’s energy reserves,
announced Jan. 16 a $12 billion joint investment plan with  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  over 30 years to recover oil off Malaysia’s
Sarawak and Sabah coasts as the Southeast Asian nation seeks to
extend the life of its diminishing reserves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  