-- Philippine Deficit Widens to Record as Aquino Boosts Spend
-- B y   M a x   E s t a y o   a n d   J o e l   G u i n t o
-- 2012-03-05T05:28:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/philippine-deficit-widens-to-record-as-aquino-boosts-spend-2-.html
The Philippines’  budget deficit 
widened to a record in December after President  Benigno Aquino 
accelerated spending on roads and schools to bolster an economy
struggling to counter the effects of Europe’s debt crisis.  The shortfall was 101.5 billion pesos ($2.4 billion), the
government said in a statement released in Manila today,
compared with 22 billion pesos for November reported earlier.
That is the highest since Bloomberg began tracking the data in
1994. The full-year gap was 197.8 billion pesos last year,
compared with a record 314.5 billion pesos in 2010. Spending
surged 43.2 percent in December while revenues grew 6.8 percent.  Aquino is increasing spending to a record this year while
seeking $16 billion of investments in mass rail and airports in
an effort to boost expansion to as much as 8 percent annually.
Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas cut its benchmark interest rate for
a second straight meeting last week, joining neighbors from
 Thailand  to Indonesia in easing monetary policy to shield growth
from a faltering global recovery.  “Spending is finally starting to kick in and if this
continues this year and translate into higher economic growth,
it will be positive for both  interest rates  and  exchange rate  in
the long term,” said Rafael Algarra, executive vice president of
financial markets at Security Bank Corp. in Manila.  Yields on bonds due July 2031 jumped to a one-month high,
according to Tradition Financial Services. The peso fell 0.3
percent to 42.84 per dollar, according to Tullett Prebon Plc.  “The market used the high deficit as an excuse to push the
yields up,” said  Jonathan Ravelas , market strategist at BDO
Unibank Inc. in Manila.  Narrow the Gap  Growth (PGDYTY)  in the $200 billion economy eased to 3.7 percent
last year from 7.6 percent in 2010 as Europe’s debt crisis
curbed exports and as government spending faltered. The nation
won credit-rating upgrades from  Fitch Ratings  and Moody’s last
year after stepping up efforts to narrow the budget gap, which
the government forecasts will be 279 billion pesos this year, or
2.6 percent of gross domestic product, from 2 percent last year.  “The concern right now is economic growth,”  Luz Lorenzo ,
an economist at ATR-Kim Eng Securities Inc. in Manila, said
before the report. “That is what the government is addressing
by spending more.”  The  Philippines  will keep its borrowing program for this
year and is considering a debt swap for liability management,
Treasurer  Roberto Tan  said in a briefing in Manila today. The
government will consider other fundraising options aside from
its regular auction, and the Bureau of the Treasury will follow
market rates in deciding on auctions, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Max Estayo in Manila at 
 mestayo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  