-- Poland Keeps Eyes Fixed on 1% Budget-Gap Goal, Rozkrut Says
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2012-03-05T11:04:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/poland-keeps-eyes-fixed-on-1-budget-gap-goal-rozkrut-says.html
Poland is focused on trimming its
 budget deficit  to 1 percent of gross domestic product in 2015,
Marek Rozkrut, director of the Finance Ministry’s Analysis and
Statistical Department in Warsaw, said in a March 2 interview.  Following are excerpts of his comments.  On  deficit reduction :  “The new Convergence Program will outline a path for
reducing the budget deficit set to the medium-term target of 1
percent of GDP in 2015. All actions will be subordinated to this
goal. It will be important to demonstrate that deficit reduction
is sustainable, which is one of the conditions for lifting the
excessive-deficit procedure. It will also eliminate the risk of
Poland losing access to EU cohesion funds, which has been an
important element in financing our economic growth. Keep in mind
that the risk of EU punishment and the levying of a financial
penalty against a country breaching fiscal-discipline rules is
much higher than in the past.”  On sovereign-debt ratings:  “A positive evaluation of the Convergence Program, backed
up by data showing we’re making progress on fiscal
consolidation, will reinforce our chances for improving
perceptions of  Poland ’s creditworthiness. One can’t rule out
that at least our ratings outlook may be upgraded this year.”  On budget deficit, debt:  “We’re sticking to our estimate that the general
government deficit was 5.6 percent in 2011. Lower estimates by
some analysts probably include the 6.2 billion zloty net income
from the Polish central bank that was paid into the budget. EU
methodology excludes these funds from revenue and they can’t be
used to reduce the deficit, because that would force the central
bank to report an operational loss. The general government
deficit would be lower by 0.4 percentage point if we included
the transfer of central bank profit, but EU accounting standards
rule out this possibility.  “Poland will be one of the few EU countries in 2012 to
report a decline in public debt, and this tendency will continue
in coming years.”  On economic growth:  “Our 2.5 percent growth forecast for this year definitely
isn’t optimistic. You can see this from the latest economic
data, which have been better than expected, and by the upward
revisions in GDP forecasts by commercial banks and international
institutions. Tax receipts for January and February show that
corporate earnings are strong.  “GDP growth of 4.3 percent in the fourth quarter shows
that the Polish economy is more resilient than many institutions
and analysts had expected. One could say Poland is coping really
well with slower growth among our trading partners, provided
this slowdown is temporary.  “The downward revision of the European Commission’s
economic growth forecasts for the EU was a negative signal,
because we can’t sustain a fast expansion regardless of the
external situation. On the other hand, Poland was one of only
three countries whose growth forecasts weren’t cut. That means
the Commission shares the view that our economy is resistant to
external shocks. What’s very important is that the indicators
don’t point to a strengthening of negative trends but to the
start of a recovery in the euro area, even if we have to wait
for it until the second half of the year. In this scenario,
Poland would weather the EU slowdown relatively easily.”  On GDP revisions:  “In GDP forecasting, the structure of growth is just as
important as the rate. We should be ready for a possible
revision in the 2011 data the  Central Statistical Office 
prepares the spring fiscal notification for the EU.  “We’ll unveil a new GDP forecast in the revised
Convergence Program, which will be ready in April. Our
macroeconomic assumptions for the 2013 budget will probably be
based on this forecast.”  On exports:  “The acceleration of exports in the fourth quarter
exceeded our expectations and shows that our foreign trade is
very resistant to the slowdown in the European Union. This
strong performance is due to the price competitiveness of our
exporters, based on rising productivity, falling labor costs and
the earlier depreciation of the zloty.”  On investment growth:  “Recent data show a strong recovery in private investment,
which we estimate grew by 9 percent in real terms last year.
Public investments also grew in 2011, reaching a record high for
Poland as a percentage of GDP and also the highest level in the
EU. The European Commission forecasts that Poland will lead the
EU in public investments again in 2012 and 2013.”  On consumption:  “We do see slower growth of private consumption.  Consumer
spending  is being curbed by slow wage increases and a relatively
high inflation rate. The situation on the labor market doesn’t
suggest there’ll be a big rebound in wages. The biggest risk
factor for economic growth in Poland is a further slowdown in
consumption. The chances of this happening increase with every
deterioration in the condition of our major trading partners,
which affects Polish exports, output, employment and wages and
could ultimately curb household consumption.  “The GDP data also show that public consumption fell in
2011 for the first time ever. We’d been predicting a small
increase of less than 1 percent. This year, according to our
estimate, public consumption growth should be close to zero.
This two-year period represents an unprecedented fiscal
consolidation in our country.”  On inflation:  “Domestic demand isn’t exerting any significant inflation
pressure. Commodity price increases and zloty depreciation,
which has a delayed impact on prices, are the main contributors
to above-target inflation. They are also the main source for
uncertainty about inflation in coming months. We’re expecting
inflation to slow significantly in March and there’s a chance it
will drop below the top end of the central bank’s tolerance
range in the first half of the year. We’ll need to wait until
the second half of the year for a sustained reduction of the
inflation rate to the 1.5 percent-3.5 percent tolerance range.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  