-- Portugal Says Won’t Seek More Room for Deficit Goal: Interview
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a   a n d   D a v i d   T w e e d
-- 2012-03-05T19:04:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/portugal-says-won-t-seek-more-room-for-deficit-goal-interview.html
The following are comments made by
Portuguese Prime Minister Pedro Passos Coelho in an interview in
Lisbon today:  On how  Portugal ’s image has changed over the last European Union
summits:  “The first time I went to the European Council everyone
looked at Portugal with some fear that the country could not
reach the target of the adjustment program. But a few months
later there was more confidence in the country because the
government showed to all partners, European partners, its
commitment to reach the targets. We have presented a tough new
budget for 2012, we started structural reforms in Portugal and
the main objectives in the program are being obtained.”  On European leaders recognizing Portugal’s efforts in achieving
the goals of its adjustment program:  “All the colleagues recognized, are recognizing, the
efforts of the  Portuguese government .”  On Portugal turning the corner on the current crisis:  “Portugal is in a very difficult situation. Of course
things don’t change from one day to another. We had external
imbalances during the last 10 years. We are now reducing the
external imbalances. Last year we could reduce 4.5 points of GDP
in external imbalances. But of course we are not able to do
everything in a year. The point is: it’s important to maintain
our commitments and it’s important also to deliver the results.
I’m sure in a few months when the results of the current year
are stronger in the eyes of the analysts Portugal will become a
more favorable case of success.”  On the need to strengthen European firewalls:  “Everyone thinks like that. We need stronger fire power
against instability. Financial instability. And  Angela Merkel 
knows it, of course. She’s waiting for an agreement in
parliament to obtain the green light for that change.”  On EU finance ministers agreeing on a bigger EU firewall by the
end of the month:  “The ministers of finance have said that until the end of
March we will have an answer. A positive answer, I’m sure.”  On the increase in Portuguese bond yields:  “In first place, we must see that the secondary market is
a very illiquid market. There are very few transactions, so the
meaning of the financial stress is not so worrying as it would
be if we were in the market, which we are not. So I think there
is still some pressure on the markets because people don’t know
if Portugal is able to grow in the coming years. Analysts think
that Portugal is doing all the things right under the adjustment
program, but the question is whether Portugal will be able to
pay all its debt in the future.”  On reports that Portugal’s debt is unsustainable:  “I don’t agree. I don’t agree. Why? Because in the first
place we have the IMF analysis on the sustainability of
Portuguese debt and the IMF is saying that Portuguese debt is
sustainable. What does this mean? It means that when you compare
our debt, external debt, public debt and the Irish debt for
instance, they have the same pattern. We expect the Portuguese
economy to grow in 2013. At what rate? Probably between 0.7
percent and 1 percent. That puts Portugal on track to recovery -
- economic recovery and growth. So the important thing is taking
advantage of this period to implement structural change that
could increase the potential growth of the economy.”  On the possibility of Portugal imposing losses on private
bondholders in the future:  “Well, I can say is that the Portuguese government is
getting all the positive results to avoid such a scenario. I
don’t see any kind of possibility that my government could in a
few years ask to restructure the Portuguese debt.”  On the Greek situation being unique:  “All the conclusions of the European Council point to
that. The  Greek economy , the Greek case, is unique in the
European Union. There is a second possibility for the Greeks to
arrange a different future, with a sustainable debt. That will
depend on the structural reforms that the new government could
implement after the elections.”  On whether Portugal can return to bond markets in 2013:  “That’s the objective. I’m doing everything to get this
result. It’s important for Portugal to return to markets next
year. Now we have a good implementation of the program. If we
present at the end of this year consistent results on internal
deficit and on the external current account, I think we will
have a very good argument to persuade analysts and markets that
we are on the way to returning to the markets.”  On Portugal not being able to return to bond markets next year:  “Well, the IMF, the European Commission and the  European
Central Bank  have all said that if Ireland or Portugal faced
difficulties on their return to markets because of external
reasons they will maintain their support to both economies. That
means that European countries and the IMF believe in the program
of the two countries. They believe we will reach the targets on
fiscal consolidation and on external account imbalances. But if
something happens out there that creates difficulties on the
return to markets then they can extend the programs to Portugal
and Ireland. I don’t want a scenario like that and I hope that
external reasons don’t arise.”  On whether there is preparatory work being done in case Portugal
cannot return to bond markets:  “Not yet because we have one and half years ahead of us to
prepare until September of 2013 for our return to markets. I
think, as I told you in the last minutes, that until the end of
this year it will be very clear that Portugal is on track and
perfectly able to return to the markets.”  On Portugal reaching its 4.5 percent budget deficit target this
year:  “Of course. Of course.”  On whether Portugal could follow  Spain  in terms of easing its
budget-deficit target for this year:  “Absolutely not. Spain is in a different situation. They
have more space for maneuver to get to the target in 2013. We
are in an adjustment program. So we cannot fail the targets. The
scrutiny about the Portuguese economy is total. We cannot slip
on the budget and we cannot be flexible on the targets on
structural change. The future depends on the determination of
the government to reach these targets.”  On whether Portuguese banks are choking the economy out of
credit due to higher capital ratio requirements:  “It’s true we need to de-leverage the Portuguese economy.
It’s indispensable to create a more healthy and competitive
economy. The problem is, can we be sure that the good
enterprises don’t fall out because they didn’t have the money to
have a good performance. Well, the new monetary policy conducted
by the ECB grants more stable lending and financing to the
economy.”  On structural reforms having an impact on economic growth:  “Well, you know. Structural change needs some time to
bring about a positive impact on the economy. We know that. At
minimum, three or five years. But if the market sees consistency
and coherence on these kinds of reforms, it could anticipate
some of the positive effects. So we are expecting in the next
year -- 2013, 2014 -- good results in the short and medium
term.”  On whether he sees a more cohesive  Europe  five years from now:  “I think so. A stronger union in the future. We have
already new mechanisms and better treaties to get stability,
coordination, surveillance. So the first step to complete the
economic and monetary union is already achieved. Now we can
think of a new level of deepening political union.”  On euro bonds:  “If we are able to think about a European government, a
European treasury, a Ministry of Treasury in Europe. Why not?
It’s possible and it’s perfectly attainable in the next 10 to 15
years. Why not?”  On Portugal pushing for lower  interest rates  on its bailout
loans similar to Greece:  “No, it’s a different situation. Portuguese loans already
have a very good interest level.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Tweed in London at 
 dtweed@bloomberg.net ;
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net . 