-- Private Holders of Greek Debt Should Reject Swap Offer, DSW Says
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2012-03-05T12:06:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/private-holders-of-greek-debt-should-reject-swap-offer-dsw-says.html
Private investors in Greek
 government bonds  should reject a voluntary swap offer aimed at
reducing the country’s debt load, according to German private
investor lobby group  DSW .  “We advise investors in securities with short maturities
in particular not to accept the offer,” Marc Tuengler, DSW’s
managing director, said in an e-mailed  statement  today. “As the
new bonds have maturities of 30 years, investors with bonds that
mature in 2012 would face an even higher loss” than the 53.5
percent cut agreed in the debt swap with Greece, he said.  Private creditors reached an agreement with Greek and
European officials on the biggest sovereign-debt restructuring
in history. The plan seeks to reduce Greece’s borrowings and
lower debt. Under the deal, investors will forgive 53.5 percent
of their principal and exchange their remaining holdings for new
Greek government bonds and notes from the European Financial
Stability Facility. Private debt holders must indicate by March
8 whether they will take part.  The Greek government is seeking a participation rate of
more than 90 percent and set a 75 percent rate as a threshold
for proceeding with the transaction.  The risk related to not accepting the offer would be
“manageable” because if the approval rate was between 75
percent and 90 percent of the outstanding nominal value, a
mandatory swap would be likely to happen, the DSW said.
Therefore investors who opposed the swap would be “treated as
if they had consented and lose nothing,” the investor group
said.  “Should the quota be above 90 percent, the swap will be
carried out voluntarily,” it said. “That would mean the
maturity of bonds held by investors who decided against the
offer wouldn’t change,” Tuengler said in the statement. For
bonds maturing in 2012, there would be a “quite likely chance”
of a repayment at nominal value, he added.  Dusseldorf-based DSW, which represents about 25,000 private
shareholders and retail investors as its members, said on Feb.
28 that  Greece  needs to provide clarity on the treatment of
individual investors in its debt swap or risk a holdout that may
trigger the default European leaders are trying to prevent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  