-- Putin Grapples With Urban Russia’s Ire as Challenge for Third Kremlin Term
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-03-06T15:20:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/putin-grapples-with-urban-russia-s-ire-as-challenge-for-third-kremlin-term.html
Vladimir Putin , who won another six
years at the Kremlin amid allegations of fraud, faces rising
discontent among the country’s urban middle class that owes its
success to prosperity under his rule.  “Our society has no future,” Oleg Ermolaev, 34, the head
of a company that designs power networks, said as he cast his
ballot against Putin in Moscow on March 4. Ermolaev, who voted
for billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov , was among the tens of
thousands who protested after alleged fraud in a Dec. 4
parliamentary vote in the biggest anti-Putin rallies.  Ermolaev is part of a generation of educated Russians who
have seen real income rise 12 percent per year since Putin first
rose to the presidency in 1999. While Putin granted some
concessions in the run-up to the election, Russia’s middle
classes are demanding more to ease political restrictions and
tackle corruption that  Transparency International  says is the
highest of any major economy.  The risk for Putin is that he will gradually lose sway over
the urban elite, according to Mikhail Dmitriev, head of the
Center for Strategic Studies. Ernst & Young estimates that city
dwellers command 85 percent of the country’s purchasing power.  ‘Grown Out’  “There are signals the middle class has grown out of the
political system that exists,” Dmitriev said. Putin will have
to be careful to avoid repeating the final three years of his
predecessor  Boris Yeltsin ’s presidency, which ended in his
resignation in 1999 after losing the support of the Russian
political elite, according to Dmitriev.  Only 19 percent of voters want Putin to remain as president
after 2018 elections, with 6 percent backing his successor,
President  Dmitry Medvedev , the independent  Levada Center  said in
an opinion  survey  published today. Almost a quarter of
respondents prefer to see “another politician,” while 52
percent said they were undecided or unable to answer, according
to the poll, which surveyed 1,600 people on Feb. 2-19 and had a
margin of error of 3.4 percentage points.  Discontent with Putin burst into the streets of Moscow and
 St. Petersburg  in December amid allegations that his United
Russia party inflated its vote in parliamentary elections to
about 50 percent from 30 percent.  Moscow Rally  As many as 20,000 people rallied in downtown Moscow
yesterday after international observers criticized the
presidential election as unfair. A new protest is planned for
March 10, said Vladimir Ryzhkov, a former lawmaker and one of
the organizers,  Russian stocks today slumped the most since Dec. 9, when
anti-government protests roiled the  Micex Index. (VTBMICX)  The gauge
closed down 3.9 percent at 1,562.19 in Moscow. The ruble
depreciated 1 percent to 29.635 per dollar.  Putin won the election after reaching out to voters with a
promise of increased spending on social welfare and the
military, pledges which  Capital Economics  says amount to 5
percent of gross domestic product through 2018.  The campaign helped Putin partially rebuild his reputation
with voters, propelling his official vote at the election to 64
percent. Just three months previously, FOM put his support at as
low as 42 percent.  ‘Successful Campaign’  “Putin ran a very successful campaign,” Alexei Mukhin,
head of Moscow’s Center for Political Information, said March 3
by phone.  Nor have urban voters all turned their back on Putin, who
helped rebuild the country after the Russian default of 1998
decimated the savings of the country’s middle classes.  “We want stability, peace, no revolution,” said Tatiana
Mironova, 54, a Moscow service-industry worker, as she cast her
vote. “The opposition that is leading protest is getting paid
by the Americans and want to rip  Russia  apart.”  At the same time, the Russian leader risks gradually losing
popular support unless he keeps his spending promises and acts
to regain the trust of the middle class, according to Valery Fedorov, head of the All-Russian Center for the Study of  Public
Opinion , or VTsIOM, a state-run pollster.  Municipal tariffs rising in July may be an early test of
the breadth of Putin’s support, said Alexei Grazhdankin, deputy
head of the Levada Center polling group.  Putin’s Legacy  The middle classes are a product of Putin’s success in
stabilizing the Russian economy, a legacy that was aided by
soaring oil prices.  The proportion of Russians with at least $500 of monthly
income per capita rose to about 50 percent last year from less
than 10 percent in 2004, according to  Citigroup Inc. (C)  That helped
drive up retail sales by an average of 11 percent a year in the
decade through last year, including a contraction in 2009,
attracting retailers from Ikea Group to  Inditex SA. (ITX)   The September announcement that Medvedev would step aside
to allow Putin to run for a third term as president awoke
educated urban voters politically, according to FOM. Medvedev,
46, a former corporate lawyer from Putin’s home town of St.
Petersburg, had promised to curb graft and promote civil
liberties.  Middle classes had been loyal to the authorities,
“enduring defenselessness and corruption,” because they saw
Putin as a guarantor of prosperity and stability after the
economic turmoil of the 1990s, said Larisa Pautova, a
sociologist with the Public Opinion Foundation, or FOM.  ‘21st Century People’  The announcement of Putin’s planned return broke the trust
between the group FOM terms “21st century people” and Russia’s
leaders, Pautova said.  “Putin threw down a challenge to us all,”  Sergei Mitrokhin , leader of the pro-democracy Yabloko party said at
last night’s rally in Moscow. “From this moment on, the real
battle starts.”  While protests have been held mainly in major cities
including Moscow and St. Petersburg, Russia’s second largest,
people from smaller population centers have also started to show
growing dissatisfaction.  “Politicization is under way not in Moscow only, but in
the regions too,” said Ivan Begtin, an Internet researcher who
found that websites in 150 small and medium-sized towns showed
increasing criticism of local and federal authorities since late
last year. There are 54.5 million Russian  Internet users ,
representing 47 percent of the population, according to FOM.  As Russians became wealthier, they tolerated Putin
consolidating his power by controlling the political process and
mass media, Natalia Tikhonova, the deputy head of the Institute
of Sociology at the Russian Academy of Sciences, said by phone.  ‘Pre-Industrial’ Model  Russia’s middle class have now decided they don’t want to
be treated anymore as feudal “subjects,” Tikhonova said.
“This model is from the pre-industrial era, and the middle
class is not from that era anymore.”  Fraud allegations during the presidential vote exceeded
reports received during the election three months ago, Alexey Navalny, an anti-corruption blogger and opposition leader, told
the Ekho Moskvy radio station. He was among 250 people detained
by police last night and was released early this morning,
according to a posting on his Twitter Inc. account.  Moscow police showed “professionalism and effectiveness”
in controlling the rally in the capital, the president-elect’s
spokesman,  Dmitry Peskov , told reporters today.  Observers from the Organization for Security and
Cooperation in  Europe  identified violations at one-third of the
polling stations monitored by the democracy watchdog during the
vote. The election “didn’t meet important democratic
standards,” said Tonino Picula from the OSCE’s parliamentary
assembly.  The demonstrations will probably diminish significantly by
the summer, VTsIOM’s Fedorov, Grazhdankin from Levada and
Alexander Oslon from FOM said by phone. Still, the resentment
will remain, and may find a new spark to again boil over into
street protests, Fedorov said.  “The appetite for change has come, and won’t disappear
until it’s satisfied,” Fedorov said. The urban opposition will
seek to drum up support across the country, most of which is
loyal to Putin.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  