-- Rambus, Dainippon, Broadcom, Nike: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-03-05T12:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/rambus-dainippon-broadcom-rim-nike-intellectual-property.html
Rambus Inc. (RMBS) , a designer of high-
speed memory chips, lost a ruling from a U.S. trade judge in its
efforts to boost patent-licensing fees from inventions.  LSI Corp., (LSI)   MediaTek Inc., (2454)  and  STMicroelectronics NV (STM)  didn’t
violate patent rights owned by Rambus, U.S. International Trade
Commission Judge Theodore Essex said in a one-page  notice  posted
on the agency’s website. The judge’s findings are subject to
review by the six-member commission, which has the power to
block imports of products that infringe U.S. patents.  Rambus has sought to boost royalties from its designs by
extending the reach of patent enforcement beyond personal
computers -- where the Sunnyvale, California-based company has
fought a decade’s worth of legal battles -- to communications
devices and electronics.  The judge gave no reason for his determination. The
findings will be released after both sides get a chance to
redact confidential information.  The dispute in this case centers on a type of dynamic
random access memory called SDRAM that acts as the main memory
in computers. Rambus contends its inventions speed the transfer
of data.  The memory controllers are used in networking gear,
televisions, set-top decoders and other devices. The complaint
also names customers of the three chipmakers, including  Asustek
Computer Inc. (2357) ,  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) ,  Garmin Ltd. (GRMN)  and Hewlett-
Packard Co.  LSI, based in Milpitas,  California ; Hsinchu, Taiwan-based
MediaTek and Geneva-based STMicro denied infringing the patents
and challenged their validity.  Broadcom Corp. and  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  also were part of the
original case before they reached settlements of all pending
litigation. Rambus asked the ITC to dismiss Motorola Mobility
Holdings Inc., which uses Broadcom and Nvidia, because of the
settlements.  The case is In the Matter of Certain Semiconductor Chips
and Products Containing Same, 337-753, U.S. International Trade
Commission ( Washington ).  Dainippon Sumitomo Unit Wins Mylan Brovana Patents Ruling  Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Co.’s  Sunovion Pharmaceuticals (SEPR) 
unit won a court ruling invalidating five of seven  Mylan Inc. (MYL) 
patents related to a compound used in the bronchitis and
emphysema drug Brovana.  U.S. District Judge  John Koeltl  in  Manhattan  also limited
any damages that might be assessed on the two remaining patents,
according to a filing. He granted Marlborough, Massachusetts-
based Sunovion’s motion for partial summary judgment.  Koeltl said in his March 1 ruling that the two remaining
patents had “substantially” changed during a review by the
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, and so Canonsburg,
Pennsylvania-based Mylan is barred from collecting damages
related to sales before October 2011.  “Mylan is disappointed in today’s ruling and believes the
court erred in its decision,” Mylan said in a statement March
1. “Mylan intends to appeal the decision.”  The company also said it intends to continue to “pursue
damages and an injunction with respect to” the two patents on
which the judge limited damages.  Mylan’s Dey unit sued Sunovion’s predecessor company,
Sepracor, in 2007 to block the introduction of Brovana, which
Dey said infringed its patent for a spray to open bronchial
passages. Dey was owned by  Merck KGaA (MRK)  when the suit was filed.  The patents are related to the compound formoterol.
Brovana’s active ingredient is a variation of formoterol.  The case is Dey v. Sepracor, 07-cv-02353, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  Broadcom Wins Tentative Ban on Infringing Emulex Products  Broadcom Corp. (BRCM)  won a tentative ruling prohibiting rival
chipmaker Emulex Corp. from selling so-called controller chips
for communications networks that were found to infringe two of
its patents.  U.S. District Judge James Selna in  Santa Ana , California,
issued a tentative decision before a hearing March 2 on
Broadcom’s request for a permanent injunction. The judge said he
will allow Emulex to sell the infringing products for another 18
months to existing customers who have ordered them, while paying
Broadcom a 3 percent royalty.  A jury found after a three-week trial that Emulex infringed
one of  Irvine , California-based Broadcom’s patents. Selna, after
the trial, agreed with Broadcom that Emulex was also liable for
infringing a second patent.  Emulex (ELX)  objected to a court-ordered
ban of sales of infringing products and asked for a mandatory
royalty instead.  Katherine Lane, a spokeswoman for  Costa Mesa , California-
based Emulex, declined to comment on the ruling.  The case is Emulex v. Broadcom, 09-01310, U.S. District
Court, Central District of California (Santa Ana).  GlaxoSmithKline Antitrust Probe Dropped by EU Commission  The European Commission said it ended an antitrust probe
into  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  over possible collusion to keep cheaper
copies of medicines off the market after a complaint against the
company was withdrawn.  “The Commission examined whether there may have been
violation of EU competition law by GlaxoSmithKline,” Antoine
Colombani, a spokesman for the regulator, said in an e-mail
March 2. The case involving generic-drug producer Synthon BV
concerned “possible anticompetitive agreements or concerted
practices in order to delay or exclude generic competition,” he
said. Colombani declined to elaborate on Synthon’s role in the
probe.  The announcement came a day after European Union regulators
dropped a similar probe into  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) , the U.K.’s second-
biggest drugmaker, and  Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502) ’s Nycomed unit
over possible collusion to keep cheaper copies of medicines off
the market. That case was brought to a halt because of a lack of
evidence.  Antitrust regulators on both sides of the Atlantic are
focusing on how patent infringement settlements between
companies that make branded medicines and generic-drug producers
might harm consumers. The EU opened a probe into  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ)  and  Novartis AG (NOVN)  in October and is also investigating
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. and its Cephalon Inc. unit
over possible efforts to hinder generic drugs.  Glaxo didn’t respond to a voice-mail message and Synthon,
based in Nijmegen, the Netherlands, didn’t respond to an e-mail
seeking comment.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  RIM Persuades USPTO to Reject ‘Crackberry’ Trademark Application  Research in Motion Ltd. , the Canadian maker of the
BlackBerry mobile device, defeated a  Florida  company’s attempt
to register “Crackberry” as a U.S. trademark.  According to a  Feb. 27 ruling  from the Trademark Trial and
Appeal Board of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, the fact
that “Crackberry” was already a widely accepted slang
expression for the RIM product meant there was already “similar
commercial expression for both marks.”  The board noted that the term “crackberry” -- alluding to
the addictive nature of the BlackBerry’s use -- was  selected as
the “Word of the Year” in a 2006 survey of new words . “There
is a strong association among members of the relevant public
between these two terms in the field of wireless handheld
devices,” the board said.  The applications to register “Crackberry” were filed by
Axel Ltd. of Inverness, Florida. The company said it wanted to
use the mark for a variety of computer, wireless and marketing
purposes in addition to clothing. Many of those uses were too
close to services provided by RIM under the “BlackBerry” mark,
the board said.  Waterloo, Ontario-based RIM was represented by  Jeffrey J.
Morgan ,  William. R. Towns  and  Monica M. Moussighi  of  Novak Druce
& Quigg LLP (0004251D)  of West Palm Beach, Florida. Axel Ltd. was
represented by Matthew H. Swyers of the  Swyers Law Firm PllC  of
Vienna, Virginia.  Nike Sued by Clothing Company Over ‘Fuelband’ Marks  Nike Inc. (NKE) , the world’s largest sporting goods maker, was
sued for trademark infringement by a  South Carolina  clothing
company.  The suit, filed Feb. 27 in federal court in Columbia, South
Carolina, is related to trademarks belonging to Fuel Clothing
Co., of Hilton Head, South Carolina.  The clothing company objects to Nike’s applications to
register “Nike + Fuel,” “Nike + Fuelband,” and “Nikefuel”
trademark applications. The Beaverton, Oregon-based sporting
goods company’s advertisement of products as “Fuel” to promote
its wearable sport band is also infringing, according to court
papers.  Nike is accused of using “Fuel” to target consumers in
the same consumer demographic area that comprises the South
Carolina company’s consumer base.  According to  the Oregonian newspaper’s OregonLive website,
Nike introduced its  Fuelband  Feb. 22. It’s a $149 digital device
that measures and records all sorts of body movement.  The South Carolina company claims that Nike is using the
name to trade on “the substantial goodwill and reputation”
that Fuel Clothing built in the use of the term. It said it had
sent Nike a cease-and-desist letter warning of possible
infringement, and that the Oregon company had apparently ignored
the demands.  Fuel Clothing asked the court for awards of money damages,
litigation costs and attorney fees.  Nike didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request for
comment.  Fuel Clothing is represented by John E. Schmidt III and
Melissa Copeland of  Schmidt & Copeland LLC  of Columbia, South
Carolina.  The case is Fuel Clothing Co. v. Nike Inc., 3:12-cv-00555-
MBs, U.S. District Court, District of South Carolina (Columbia).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Aereo’s Internet TV Service Infringes Copyright, Networks Claim  Aereo Inc. will violate copyrights with its service for
subscribers in  New York City  to watch broadcast television
programs on personal computers and smartphones, television
networks said.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC and other networks said in two
separate complaints filed March 1 in federal court in Manhattan
that Aereo has no right to any of the programs that it offers
through its subscription-only Internet service scheduled to
start March 14.  “Although other distributors, including cable and
satellite operators and telephone companies, pay to retransmit
the same programming, Aereo’s business is based on circumventing
the carefully balanced distribution system mandated by
congress,” the networks said. “That is infringement.”  The networks seek a court order blocking Aereo’s service as
well as unspecified damages.  Aereo, based in Long Island City, New York, is backed in
part by Barry Diller’s  IAC/InterActiveCorp. (IACI)  The company lets its
subscribers access network television broadcasts and local
stations on Web-enabled devices with a remote antenna and
digital video recorder. The company’s membership fee is $12 a
month.  “Aereo does not believe that the broadcasters’ position
has any merit and it very much looks forward to a full and fair
airing of the issues,” Mike Schroeder, a company spokesman,
said in an e-mailed statement. “Consumers are legally entitled
to access broadcast television via an antenna and they are
entitled to record television content for their personal use.”  The cases are American Broadcasting Cos. v. Aereo, 12-1540,
and WNET v. Aereo, 12-1543, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan.)  For copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  SNR Denton Brings in Ex-Howrey Patent Litigator Robert Kramer  SNR Denton LLP (1159L)  hired Robert F. Kramer for its IP practice,
the Chicago-based firm said in a  statement .  Kramer , a patent litigator, was formerly a partner at the
now-defunct Washington firm of  Howrey LLP (1196L) . He has also practiced
with  San Francisco ’s Morrison & Foerster LLP, serving in  Japan 
for three years as a registered  Gaikokuho-Jimu-Bengoshi  (foreign
legal consultant).  He has represented clients whose technologies have included
electronics, networking and data transmission systems, light
emitting diodes telecommunications, and semiconductors in
federal courts and before the U.S. International Trade
Commission.  Kramer has an undergraduate degree from  New York University 
and a law degree from Brooklyn Law School.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 