-- Transportation Workers Report Near-Misses, Sleepiness in Study
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2012-03-05T20:00:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/transportation-workers-report-near-misses-sleepiness-in-study.html
Pilots and train operators are
chronically sleepy and make more fatigue-related errors than the
general public, a U.S. study found.  About one in four of the pilots and rail workers reported
that sleepiness affects their job performance at least once a
week, compared with one in six non-transportation workers,
according to the  survey  by the National Sleep Foundation.  “Transportation workers hold a special place in our
society,” Thomas Balkin, chief of Behavioral Biology at the
Walter Reed Army Institute of Research, said in a telephone
interview today. “We depend on them to be alert and to be
competent. When they make an error, when they fall asleep
especially, there is the potential for catastrophe.”  The U.S. introduced pilot-scheduling regulations designed
to limit fatigue that take effect in December 2013, following an
investigation into a 2009 crash at  Pinnacle Airline Corp. (PNCL) ’s
Colgan Air unit. The rules reduce hours pilots can work late at
night, after crossing numerous time zones or making numerous
landings and takeoffs. It also requires pilots to sign a
document before each flight assuring that they are fit to fly.  Transportation workers also were more likely to have been
involved in a “near miss” at work because of sleepiness,
according to the poll. Of the pilots surveyed, 20 percent said
they had made a serious error at work caused by fatigue, four
times higher than a control group of non-transportation workers.  While truck drivers didn’t report being as sleepy as other
transportation workers, 14 percent said they had been in a near
miss from sleepiness, according to the poll.  “This is a group for which we probably need zero tolerance
for fatigue and sleepiness,” said Balkin, chairman of the group
overseeing the poll at the Arlington, Virginia-based foundation.
The survey of 1,087 adults was conducted by WB&A Market Research
of Crofton,  Maryland .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  