-- Treasuries Snap Advance Before Data Reports on U.S. Service Industry, Jobs
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-03-05T08:26:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/treasuries-snap-advance-before-reports-on-u-s-services-industry-jobs.html
Treasuries snapped a gain before a
private report that analysts said will show the U.S. services
industry, which makes up almost 90 percent of the economy, grew
at almost the fastest pace in a year.  Treasuries have “considerable risk,” a report by  Charles
Schwab Corp. (SCHW)  said. Analysts raised their year-end forecast for
10-year rates by four basis points last week to 2.52 percent,
according to responses from banks and securities companies
surveyed by Bloomberg, with the most recent forecasts given the
heaviest weightings. It was the largest increase since Bloomberg
began compiling the predictions in July 2011  “The  U.S. economy  is expanding,” said Hiroki Shimazu, an
economist in  Tokyo  at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc., a unit of
 Japan ’s third-largest publicly traded bank by assets. “I don’t
recommend longer-term U.S. Treasuries. I recommend riskier
assets like equities and commodities.”  U.S. 10-year  yields  held at 1.98 percent at 8:19 a.m.
London time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2
percent security due February 2022 changed hands at 100 6/32.
The yield fell five basis points, or 0.05 percentage points, on
March 2.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s U.S. non-
manufacturing  index  was probably 56.2 in February, versus 56.8
the month before, according to a Bloomberg News survey of
analysts before the report today. The January figure was the
most since February 2011.  Employment Report  Employers probably added more than 200,000 workers for a
third month in February, a separate survey showed before the
Labor Department reports payroll data March 9.  China  pared its
economic growth target to 7.5 percent from an 8 percent goal in
place since 2005, Premier  Wen Jiabao  said in a speech today.  U.S. government securities have handed investors a 0.5
percent loss in the past month as of March 2, based on Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes.  The  MSCI All Country World Index (MXWD)  of stocks returned 3.4 in
the period. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24
commodities gained 7.1 percent.  “There’s considerable risk in long-term bonds,
particularly Treasuries if and when rates rise,” Schwab, which
is based in  San Francisco  and manages $199 billion, said in a
report on its  website  March 2. “We don’t like them right now,”
according to the note by  Rob Williams , the director of income
planning, and Kathy A. Jones, a fixed-income strategist.  Euro Debt Crisis  Nomura Securities International Inc., one of the 21 primary
dealers that trade with the  Federal Reserve , has a “medium-term
target” of 2.40 percent for 10-year U.S. yields.  “Investors are likely to refocus on the resilient economic
fundamentals of the U.S.,” according to a report last week by
 George Goncalves  and Marcus Phua in New York.  Treasuries gained on March 2 on concern measures to
increase lending in the euro region won’t be enough to boost
economic growth, spurring demand for the safest assets.  The  European Central Bank  last week lent banks 529.5
billion euros ($698 billion) for three years. The European Union
faces a test in its attempt to stem the euro region’s two-year
debt crisis when  Greece ’s private creditors decide this week
whether to sign off on the biggest sovereign-debt restructuring
in history.  Demand for the relative safety of Treasuries is keeping the
10-year yield within about 32 basis points of the record low. It
is about 1.90 percentage points less than the average over the
past decade.  International Demand  Investors from outside the U.S. increased  holdings  of the
nation’s government debt by $1.84 trillion to $5 trillion since
the Fed began its first round of Treasury purchases in May 2009.
Foreigners hold 60.5 percent of the securities not held by the
central bank, government data show.  “There are buyers that lurk everywhere,” said  William O’Donnell , head U.S. government bond strategist at RBS
Securities Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , another primary
dealer, said in a telephone interview Feb. 29. “There’s plenty
of cash out there that would love to get its hands on quality
assets at a reasonable rate. The problem is, there’s not enough
high-quality liquid bonds.”  German 10-year bunds are also benefiting from the flight to
safety. The  yield  is about 18 basis points less than same-
maturity Treasuries, the biggest difference since November.  The Fed is in the process of replacing $400 billion of
shorter-maturity Treasuries in its holdings with longer-term
debt to cap long-term borrowing costs under a program scheduled
to end in June. The central bank plans to sell as much as $1.5
billion of debt due from July to January 2015 today, according
to the Fed Bank of  New York   website .  Investors stuck to their bearish stance on Treasuries in a
weekly survey by Ried Thunberg ICAP, a unit of the world’s
largest interdealer broker. Ried’s index on the outlook through
June rose to 44 for the seven days ended March 2 from 43 the
week before. A figure below 50 shows investors expect U.S.
government debt prices to decline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 