-- Treasuries Fall After U.S. Services-Industries Gauge Reaches One-Year High
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-03-05T22:12:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/treasuries-hold-gain-as-european-economic-data-increases-demand-for-safety.html
Treasuries fell after an index of
U.S. service industries grew at its fastest in a year, renewing
bets the economic recovery is taking hold, and as  Greece  said it
expected private creditors to accept its debt-swap terms.  Ten-year note  yields  earlier touched the lowest level since
Feb. 29 after  China  reduced its economic growth target. The
 Federal Reserve , which meets March 13 on policy, sold $1.33
billion in inflation-linked  U.S. debt .  “It’s optimism that the domestic economic picture is
improving and that we may see higher rates going forward,” said
Larry Milstein, managing director in New York of government- and
agency-debt trading at R.W. Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income
broker and dealer for institutional investors. “The market is
anticipating that private creditors will accept the terms of the
deal” in  Europe .  The U.S. 10-year note yield rose four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 2.01 percent at 5:07 p.m.  New York  time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It fell earlier to
1.96 percent after dropping five basis points on March 2 to 1.97
percent. The price of the 2 percent security due in February
2022 declined 10/32, or $3.13 per $1,000 face amount, to 99
29/32. The yield has traded this year between 2.09 percent and
1.79 percent.  Yields on  30-year Treasury bonds  increased five basis
points to 3.15 percent.  Yield Curve  The yield gap between 2- and 30-year U.S. securities,
called the yield curve, was at 2.86 percentage points, compared
with a one-year average of 3.28 percentage points. A flatter
curve generally signals a more bearish outlook on the economy.  Credit-default swaps on  U.S. government debt  rose 1.3 basis
points to 36 basis points as of 2 p.m. in New York, according to
the data provider CMA. That’s down from the peak of 100 basis
points during the height of the financial crisis in 2009 and
below 77.7 basis points for higher-rated German bunds.  The swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to
meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. At
today’s rate on U.S. debt, it would cost the equivalent of
$36,000 a year to protect $10 million of debt against default
for five years.  Treasuries declined after the  Institute for Supply
Management ’s index of  non-manufacturing industries , which
account for almost 90 percent of the  U.S. economy , rose to 57.3
from 56.8 a month earlier. The Tempe, Arizona-based group’s
measure was projected to fall to 56, according to a Bloomberg
News survey. Readings above 50 signal growth.  The Labor Department’s non-farm payrolls report on March 9
will show employers added more than 200,000 jobs for a third
month in February, according to another Bloomberg survey.  Labor Market ‘Crucial’  “Last month’s report encouraged people who were bullish on
the economy,”  David Coard , head of fixed-income trading in New
York at Williams Capital Group, a brokerage for institutional
investors, said of the Feb. 3 payrolls data. “The labor market
is crucial. If it strengthens, then there’s a much better chance
for the growth we are seeing to be self-sustaining.”  A measure of traders’ expectations for inflation that’s
tracked by the Fed was at 2.47 percent. It touched a 2012 high
of 2.6 percent last month and a low of 2.42 percent. The five-
year, five-year forward break-even  rate , which projects
annualized price increases over a five-year period starting in
2017, is below its 2.76 percent average over the past decade.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and
comparable Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of
trader expectations for consumer prices during the life of the
debt, was 2.22 percentage points, the lowest in more than two
weeks. The five-year average is 2.03 percentage points.  Fed Sale  The Fed sold TIPS today due from July 2012 to January 2015,
according to the Fed Bank of New York website. The central bank
is in the process of selling $400 billion of shorter-maturity
Treasuries in its holdings and buying the same amount of longer-
term debt to cap long-term borrowing costs under a program
scheduled to end in June.  It’s difficult “to see the 10-year note back up to 2.15
percent or 2.2 percent until we move closer to June and the Fed
stops buying,” said  Charles Comiskey , head of Treasury trading
at Bank of  Nova Scotia  in New York, one of 21 firms that trade
Treasuries with the Fed.  The Fed’s Open Market Committee, which sets interest-rate
policy, meets next week amid investor speculation that
improvements in economic data have reduced the likelihood it
will initiate a third round of asset purchases under
quantitative easing. It has held the key U.S.  interest rate  at
zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  Fisher Comments  Dallas  Fed President  Richard Fisher  said he opposes
additional central-bank purchases of securities and in a speech
in Dallas urged  Wall Street  to get ready to become less
dependent on monetary easing.  Morgan Stanley said more easing is likely. Slack in the
economy, inflation below the Fed’s medium-term projection and
policy makers’ belief the economy has been operating at a sub-
par pace will spur additional measures by the central bank
before the end of June,  Vincent Reinhart , Morgan Stanley’s chief
U.S. economist, said today in a note to clients.  Greece expects bondholders to accept a one-time offer to
write off about 100 billion euros ($140 billion) of Greek debt
and is ready to force them to participate if necessary, Finance
Minister Evangelos Venizelos said. The deadline is March 8.  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  pared the nation’s economic
growth target to 7.5 percent from an 8 percent goal in place
since 2005, a signal leaders are determined to cut reliance on
exports and  capital spending  in favor of consumption.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  