-- Receiver Welker Gets Patriots’ Franchise Tag as Bills Sign Steve Johnson
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-03-05T21:26:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/receiver-welker-gets-patriots-franchise-tag-as-bills-sign-steve-johnson.html
The  New England Patriots  made wide
receiver Wes Welker their franchise player, and Buffalo Bills
receiver Steve Johnson and Houston Texans running back  Arian Foster  avoided the tag with long-term contract extensions.  Unable to agree on an extension with Welker prior to
today’s  National Football League  deadline for using the
franchise tag, the Patriots applied the designation that
protects their rights to the receiver for one season, according
to a team news release.  The one-year salaries of franchised players are based on a
formula that takes into account the pay for other top players at
that position. Welker will make about $9.4 million, the salary
slotted for receivers, according to NFL.com. The designation can
be removed if the two sides agree on a long-term contract.  Welker had an NFL-best 122 catches last season, setting a
team record with 1,569 yards receiving. He’s been to four
straight Pro Bowls and his 554 catches since joining  New England 
in 2007 are the most in the NFL.  Johnson, the first Bills receiver to post back-to-back
1,000-yard seasons, signed a multiyear contract extension, the
team said on its website. It’s a five-year deal worth $36
million, according to the  Associated Press . Johnson caught 76
passes for 1,004 yards and seven scores last season.  Foster, the NFL’s 2010 rushing leader, agreed on a five-
year contract extension with the Texans, according to his agent.
The accord is worth $43.5 million, with almost $21 million
guaranteed, AP said. The 25-year-old Foster rushed for 1,224
yards and 10 touchdowns in 13 games last season, helping the
team to its first playoff victory, 31-10 against the  Cincinnati
Bengals .  Tennessee Titans safety Michael Griffin, Dallas Cowboys
linebacker Anthony Spencer, Jacksonville Jaguars kicker Josh Scobee, Detroit Lions defensive end Cliff Avril and Denver
Broncos kicker Matt Prater all were designated franchise players
by their teams.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 