-- Rembrandt Portrait to Top $30 Million Sale at Christie’s London
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2012-03-05T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/rembrandt-portrait-to-top-30-million-old-master-sale-at-christie-s-london.html
A Rembrandt portrait will lead a
London sale of a private collection of Dutch  Old Masters  that is
valued at more than $30 million.  The panel painting “A Bust of a Man in a Gorget and Cap”
has an upper estimate of 12 million pounds ($19 million),
 Christie’s International (CHRS)  said today in an e-mailed release. The
Caravaggio-influenced 1626-27 composition hasn’t been offered at
auction for about 40 years and should fetch at least 8 million
pounds on July 3, the company said.  In recent years, Old Masters have struggled to attract new
collectors. Christie’s plans to stimulate fresh interest in
historic paintings by taking the single-owner collection on a
promotional tour to Doha, Moscow, New York,  Hong Kong  and
Amsterdam before its sale.  The 15 works, worth at least 19 million pounds, are owned
by Pieter Dreesmann, the son of the late Anton Dreesmann, a
Dutch department-store heir whose collection was auctioned by
Christie’s in a series of sales in 2002 that raised 7.3 million
pounds.  Pieter and Olga Dreesmann are active collectors, owning
pieces ranging in date from ancient  Greece  and Rome to 21st-
Century contemporaries. The Old Masters are up for sale because
the Dreesmanns, regular buyers at the Frieze Art Fair, are “re-
focusing” their interests, said Christie’s.  The group also includes the Willem van de Velde II seascape
“Shipping in a Calm,” valued at 2.5 million pounds to 3.5
million pounds.  Fruit Trio  Three still lives of fruit by the late 17th-century painter
Adriaen Coorte are estimated to sell for prices ranging from
800,000 pounds to 1.8 million pounds each. The trio of paintings
has remained together since being made more than 300 years ago
and has never appeared at auction before, said Christie’s.  The London-based auction house sold Rembrandt’s 1658
painting, “Man with Arms Akimbo,” from the collection of Barbara Piasecka Johnson, the Johnson & Johnson heiress, for a record
20.2 million pounds in December 2009. It reappeared for sale in
March 2011 at the Tefaf fair, Maastricht, priced at $47 million
on the booth of the  New York  dealer Otto Naumann Ltd. The work
is still for sale on the dealership’s  website .  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 