-- Richest Russian Alisher Usmanov Aided by Facebook as Billionaire
-- B y   M i k h a i l   K o z y r e v   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2012-03-05T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/richest-russian-alisher-usmanov-aided-by-facebook-as-billionaire.html
Alisher Usmanov, the Muscovite who
controls the Metalloinvest metals and mining company, trumped
steel billionaire Vladimir Lisin as  Russia ’s richest man
through timely bets on tech companies including Facebook Inc.  Usmanov’s personal net worth now totals more than $20
billion, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index, pushed 
up mainly by the value of his stake in  Facebook Inc. (FB) , which is 
now worth more than $4 billion, based on Bloomberg data. He
also owns stakes in Twitter Inc., Groupon Inc. and  China ’s 
 Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. (ALIBABZ) .  The value of the 5.5 percent stake in Facebook that Usmanov
controls through Digital Sky Technologies, or DST, has probably
jumped ninefold since 2010, when he accumulated shares in the
social network leader. Usmanov, 58, owns about 80 percent of
DST, according to a person familiar with the matter who declined
to be identified because the information isn’t public.  “We saw potential in Internet companies a few years ago
and it was then that we began to invest in such private
companies as  Facebook , Groupon, Zynga and others,” Usmanov told
Bloomberg Markets magazine in January.  That diversification of assets allowed Usmanov to increase
his wealth in a year in which falling metals prices hurt the
fortunes of his richest Russian peers, such as OAO Novolipetsk
Steel’s Lisin and OAO Severstal’s Alexey Mordashov.  ‘The First Oligarch’  “Most Russian billionaires tend to stick to their familiar
industries and have generally done poorly,” said  Chris Weafer ,
chief strategist at Moscow-based Troika Dialog, Russia’s oldest
investment bank. “With Facebook, Usmanov is the first oligarch
to make such a major investment outside of his core Russia
business and to show huge success,” Weafer said.  The bulk of Russia’s billionaires -- Usmanov included --
built their wealth from 1990s investments in commodity-related
industries. Many ventured out during the past decade to buy
assets abroad but didn’t share in Usmanov’s good fortune.  Mordashov, after failing in a bid to become steelmaker
Arcelor SA’s largest shareholder in 2006, spent $2.2 billion to
buy three U.S. plants, only to sell those last year at a loss.  At the same time Mordashov was selling, Lisin, 55, was
buying -- and borrowing. His NLMK almost doubled its debt to
$2.9 billion last year after consolidating seven unprofitable
European and U.S. mills from Swiss producer Duferco Group under
a 2006 accord. Lisin’s fortune is worth about $18.9 billion.  Facebook IPO  While his metals peers were focused on the industry they
know best, Usmanov joined forces with Russia’s savviest
technology investor, Yuri Milner, in his DST investment fund in
2008. By February 2010, the partners held 8.2 percent of
Facebook, according to the IPO prospectus for the  Menlo Park ,
California-based company, which was filed Feb. 8.  DST later transferred more than 2 percent of Facebook to
Mail.ru Group Ltd., Russia’s largest  Internet company . DST spun
off Mail.ru in 2010 and Usmanov now owns 25 percent of the
Moscow-based company outright.  Facebook reported a 24-fold increase in sales over the past
five years to $3.7 billion in 2011, according to a company
filing on Feb. 1. SharesPost Inc., a marketplace for trading in
private companies, in March 2010 estimated Facebook’s value at
$11.5 billion. Facebook may seek a valuation of $100 billion in 
its IPO later this year, which would be the biggest ever for an 
Internet company.  Usmanov last April said in a telephone interview that he
was doubtful that he would be able to repeat the gains he’d
enjoyed up to that point in his foray into technology.  Twitter Gamble  “Investments in Internet companies start to bring less
profit compared with two or three years ago when we began to
invest in them almost at a startup level,” Usmanov said then.  Four months later, though, DST bought about 5 percent of
San Francisco-based Twitter, the closely held microblogging
service with more than 100 million users, for about $400
million.  “Usmanov’s success is likely to encourage others of the
merit of diversification,” said Troika’s Weafer. “We will see
more high-profile investments from Russia’s oligarchs in
industries with fast growth potential in the future.”  The dip in market values for some of Russia’s biggest
metals companies suggests why that may be right.  NLMK, Lisin’s main asset, and Oleg Deripaska’s United Co.
Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum producer, have plunged about
47 percent and 48 percent, respectively, in the last 12 months,
to about $14.7 billion and $13.2 billion.  It could be worse.  Viktor Rashnikov’s Magnitogorsk Iron & Steel has tumbled 54
percent in the same period, to $5.6 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mikhail Kozyrev in Moscow at 
 mkozyrev@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net  or
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  