-- Rio Tinto Will Invest in $2 Billion Iron Ore Project in India
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h   a n d   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k a r
-- 2012-03-05T18:31:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/rio-tinto-to-invest-2-billion-in-orissa-iron-ore-project.html
Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , the world’s third-
biggest mining company, will invest in a $2 billion iron ore
venture in  India  to tap demand for the steelmaking raw material,
said Nik Senapati, managing director of the local unit.  Rio Tinto owns 51 percent of the project that seeks to
produce 15 million metric tons annually in the eastern state of
Odisha, according to the website of partner  Odisha Mining Corp. ,
which holds 44 percent. The remaining 5 percent is owned by  NMDC
Ltd. (NMDC) , India’s biggest iron ore producer.  India’s steel ministry in November estimated local demand
may grow at 9 percent a year over the next five years. While
Tata Steel Ltd. and Steel Authority of India Ltd., the nation’s
biggest producers, own iron ore mines, JSW Steel Ltd., the
third-largest producer, buys as much as 80 percent of its needs
from local and overseas suppliers.  “With expectations of significant infrastructure and
industrial growth in India,  Rio Tinto  remains keen to contribute
to the development of the Indian iron ore sector,” Rio Tinto
said on its website.  A separate venture between Rio Tinto and NMDC was stalled
in 2010 after the companies failed to make “headway because of
a lack of synergy,” Rana Som, the then chairman at the
Hyderabad-based company, said on Dec. 21.  Government delays and protests by farmers unwilling to
vacate state-owned land have stalled initiatives by overseas
steelmakers and mining companies to develop projects in India.
Proposed steel plants in India by ArcelorMittal and Posco have
languished for more than six years, while Vedanta Resources
Plc’s bid to develop a bauxite mine and expand its alumina
smelter in Odisha has been stalled pending environmental
clearances.  India’s iron ore output may tumble 50 percent this year
from 226 million tons mined in the year ended March 31 after the
government raised levies, R.K. Sharma, secretary general at the
Federation of Indian Mineral Industries, said on Jan. 2. The
country’s total recoverable reserves are about 7.06 billion
tons, according to the Indian Bureau of Mines and Federation of
Indian Mineral Industries Ltd.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net ;
Anand Shankar in New York at 
 ashankar8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  