-- Romney-Santorum Ohio Rematch Divides Republicans by Income
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-03-05T21:19:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/romney-santorum-ohio-rematch-divide-republicans-on-income-schooling-lines.html
Rick Santorum  and Mitt Romney are
campaigning in contrasting appeals to blocs of voters divided by
income and schooling in Ohio, the most coveted Super Tuesday
prize in the race for the Republican presidential nomination.  With polls showing a virtual tie in Ohio’s March 6 primary,
Santorum is trying to build a coalition of lower-income voters,
evangelical Christians and Catholics as he seeks to prove he can
win a big-state contest and be a viable challenger to President
Barack Obama in November, while Romney is working to boost
support among more traditional Republicans.  They put their strategies on display this weekend in the
Cincinnati area, a Republican stronghold, as Santorum held an
event in an old hotel ballroom in a suburb near the edge of the
metropolitan area while Romney hosted supporters at an upscale
barbecue restaurant in a trendy section of downtown.  Their appeals spoke of a party fractured along economic and
educational lines in  Ohio , as it is nationally.  Santorum “has the ability to reach out to the common
Ohioan, the average Ohioan,” Mike DeWine, the state’s attorney
general and a former Romney supporter, told voters at the
Santorum event north of Cincinnati.  It’s a strategy that almost worked for Santorum in last
week’s Michigan primary, until he was thrown off course by his
statements about education, contraception and other issues in a
contest that has centered on the nation’s economy, and a
hammering from Romney and his allies in television ads.  Second Chance  Ohio offers a second chance for Santorum, whose lead in the
state’s polls has slipped as the vote nears, just as his onetime
polling advantage eroded in  Michigan .  A Quinnipiac University poll released today shows Romney,
who won a non-binding straw poll during Washington state’s
caucuses over the weekend, leading Santorum in Ohio, 34 percent
to 31 percent. The telephone poll surveyed 753 likely Republican
primary voters in Ohio and has a margin of error of plus or
minus 3.6 percentage points. A Quinnipiac poll on Feb. 27, had
Santorum over Romney by seven percentage points, 36 percent to
29 percent.  Those results follow a NBC/Marist  poll  released yesterday
giving Santorum an edge over Romney, 34 percent to 32 percent.
The margin of error is plus or minus 3.4 percentage points.  Santorum Attacks  Santorum unleashed a last round of attacks against Romney
today, arguing his rival can’t be trusted on issues central to
the party’s cause as the two campaigned in Ohio.  “What you have with Romney is someone who is simply not a
genuine article,” Santorum told reporters. “He’s not someone
that you can trust on the issue of big government.”  With polls in the state showing momentum heading Romney’s
way, the fresh assault was a sign of the Santorum campaign’s
growing anxiety that his fortunes are waning.  “I look at this campaign right now,” Romney said today in
Ohio, “and I see a lot of folks all talking about lots of
things, but what we need to talk about to defeat  Barack Obama  is
getting good jobs and scaling back the size of government -- and
that’s what I do.”  While Romney’s campaign wouldn’t predict a win in Ohio or
any state on March 6 -- and conceded that he expects to lose in
Georgia -- top adviser  Eric Fehrnstrom  said his candidate will
win a majority of delegates at stake on Super Tuesday.  “We’re looking forward to a good day,” he said today as
Romney toured the factory floor at Gregory Industries, a
guardrail manufacturer in Canton, Ohio. Following Romney
endorsements by U.S. House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  of
 Virginia  and a nod today from former Attorney General John Ashcroft of  Missouri , Fehrnstrom said:“The party has already
begun to coalesce behind  Mitt Romney , and we expect that we’ll
pick up more endorsements after Tuesday.”  Fewer College Graduates  The NBC/Marist poll showed almost two-thirds of likely
voters in Ohio -- 62 percent -- aren’t college graduates,
compared with Michigan, where exit polling found 49 percent of
voters hadn’t finished college. The proportion of likely Ohio
voters who consider themselves evangelical Christians is roughly
equal to the level seen in Michigan’s exit polling, about 40
percent.  Participants in the NBC/Marist poll were asked who has the
best chance of beating Obama in the fall: Romney was named by 53
percent, compared with Santorum at 18 percent. More than half of
likely Ohio voters said beating Obama is more important to them
than having a candidate who is a “true conservative.”  Romney’s Polling Gains  Nationally, support from conservatives has given Romney the
lead among the Republican contenders in a Wall Street
Journal/NBC News poll released today. Romney was supported by 38
percent of those surveyed and Santorum by 32 percent; former
U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  of  Georgia  and U.S.
Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas  were tied at 13 percent. The
telephone poll was conducted Feb. 29-March 3 among 400
Republican primary voters and has a margin of error of plus or
minus 4.9 percentage points.  In the Wall Street Journal/NBC poll in January, Gingrich
was the leader with 37 percent, followed by Romney, Santorum and
Paul.  Santorum has advantages in Ohio. The former senator is from
neighboring  Pennsylvania , he routinely speaks of a family
history with working-class ties and he’s Catholic.  The Catholic vote in Ohio may be slightly smaller in
proportion than in Michigan, where  exit polls  show 30 percent of
primary voters were Catholics and Romney and Santorum did
equally well among them. In 2008, Catholics represented 26
percent of the Ohio  primary electorate .  In Michigan, Romney won almost half the vote of those
making more than $100,000 a year, while Santorum had the
stronger showing among those with lower incomes -- he carried
about 40 percent of voters earning less than $50,000. Santorum
also won a plurality of those who haven’t attended college.  ‘Free-Market Dynamics’  At his March 3 Cincinnati event, Romney told several
hundred supporters crowded into a heated boathouse outside a
restaurant that he wants to restore the “free-market dynamics”
that made America a “powerhouse.” Afterwards, he greeted
diners in the restaurant and posed for pictures as families
enjoyed steak and ribs with their river view.  Earlier in the day, Santorum greeted a crowd mostly dressed
in jeans and sweatshirts and without campaign-provided drinks,
food or chairs.  As he did in Michigan, Romney will have a more robust get-
out-the-vote effort in Ohio, and his campaign and allies have
spent heavily on television advertising in the state.  Spending by Romney’s campaign and a political action
committee backing him outpaced expenditures on behalf of
Santorum by about 10 to 1, according to data from New York-based
Kantar Media’s CMAG, a company that tracks advertising.  Financial Resources  The Romney campaign and Restore Our Future, a super-
political action committee that supports him, spent $1.8 million
to air ads 3,713 times on Ohio broadcast television through
March 1, CMAG reported. The Red White and Blue Fund, a super-PAC
backing Santorum, had spent $181,250 to air ads 371 times.  “The disparity and financial resources show up on election
day,” said Herb Asher, a political science professor at  Ohio
State University .  Regional Fights  Santorum will appeal to social conservatives in western and
southwestern Ohio, including the Cincinnati area, while Romney
should do well in the northeast, including  Cleveland , where the
economy is the overriding issue, said Robert T. Bennett, former
Ohio Republican Party chairman. Southeastern Ohio could go
either way, while central Ohio around Columbus and a corridor
along Interstate Highway 75 will be battleground areas, he said.  Santorum’s campaign made automated phone calls to Democrats
before last week’s Michigan primary to urge them to vote for
their candidate. There doesn’t yet appear to be a similar effort
under way in Ohio, spokesmen for the state political parties
said yesterday.  Ohio, like Michigan, allows voters from other parties to
cast ballots in the Republican primary. In the 2008 Democratic
primary in Ohio, radio talk-show host  Rush Limbaugh  promoted
what he called “Operation Chaos” by encouraging Republican
voters to cast ballots for  Hillary Clinton  to prolong the
Democratic primary fight with Obama at the time.  Even as both leading candidates focused on Ohio, each
traveled to southern states that also hold contests on March 6,
the so-called Super Tuesday when more than 400 of the 1,144
delegates needed for the nomination are at stake in one day.  With polls in Ohio and  Tennessee  showing his lead
shrinking, Santorum said he plans to remain in the race
regardless of whether he wins on Super Tuesday.  “This is a game of survivor,” he told reporters after
greeting voters at Corky’s Ribs and BBQ in  Memphis . “We’re
either first or second in most of the states out there and I
think that’s going to be a good Super Tuesday for us.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John McCormick in Miamisburg, Ohio at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Niquette in Columbus, Ohio at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  