-- Royal Mail Wins Approval for Housing Near Battersea in Southwest London
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2012-03-06T12:06:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/royal-mail-wins-approval-for-housing-near-battersea-in-southwest-london.html
Royal Mail  Group Ltd., the U.K.
postal service, won approval for a plan to turn a mail-sorting
office near Battersea Power Station in southwest London into
about 1,900 homes.  Wandsworth Council gave the 6-hectare (15-acre) development
preliminary permission at a meeting yesterday after it gained
the support of the borough’s planning committee. The approval is
subject to a final legal agreement between Royal Mail and the
local government body, as well as consent from London’s mayor.  The land is part of a  195-hectare  industrial area earmarked
by local councils for redevelopment into 16,000 homes as well as
offices. As many as 1,870 homes may be built on Royal Mail’s
site, as well as a 16,300-square-meter delivery office, shops
and medical facilities, according to planning  documents 
circulated by the council.  Royal Mail said a year ago it planned to close the Mail
Centre part of its operation in the area, known as Nine Elms,
according to a planning statement submitted to the council. The
London-based company said previously and in a statement today
that the site would then be sold.  “Royal Mail has a clear strategy to ensure we derive
maximum value from any property we no longer require for our
operations,” Martin Gafsen, Royal Mail Group property director,
said in the statement. “This includes selling the freehold or
leases which we hold.”  The site is near land bought by the U.S. government for a
new embassy and close to the disused Battersea power plant,
which is for sale through broker Knight Frank LLP and accounting
firm Ernst & Young LLP’s corporate real estate group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in  London  at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 