-- Russian Antimony Miner for iPads Looks at IPO to Challenge China
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2012-03-05T08:52:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/russian-antimony-miner-for-ipads-looks-at-ipo-to-challenge-china.html
GeoProMining , the largest antimony
producer outside of  China , is considering an initial public
offering of shares to help boost output of the metal used in
iPads and fireproofed plastic.  “We don’t rule out an initial public offering of shares,”
Sergei Nossoff, first vice president of the Moscow-based
company, said in a telephone interview. GeoProMining produced
6,350 metric tons of antimony last year and plans to increase
production 30 percent by 2014, he said.  Antimony, a silvery-white metal with low conductivity, is
applied as a flame retardant in polymers used in electronics,
clothing and food packaging. Its prices have more than doubled
since early 2010 when China, which accounts for about 90 percent
of global supplies, restricted exports, according to Roskill
Consulting Group Ltd.  “Antimony was an eye-opener for us,” Nosoff said. “This
metal turned out to be as attractive and profitable to mine as
gold and copper. The market fundamentals for antimony can be
compared to rare-earth metals.”  Global antimony prices surged from $6,050 a ton in December
2009 to as high as $16,580 a ton last April, while now the metal
trades at $12,830 a ton, Metal Bulletin  data  shows.  GeoProMining, founded in 2001 by investor Siman Povarenkin,
mines gold, copper and molybdenum in the former Soviet republics
of Georgia and  Armenia  and gold and antimony in Russia. Last
year, antimony accounted for about a quarter of the company’s
revenue, according to Nossoff.  U.S. Demand  Antimony was ranked as the riskiest in terms of supply of
52 elements by the British Geological Survey last year,
reflecting its scarcity and the concentration of output in
China. Russia holds more than 19 percent of the world’s antimony
with 350,000 tons, the second-largest reserves of the rare
metal, the  U.S. Geological Survey  said in a  report  last month.  “There is a large demand for non-Chinese antimony
production, and we are considering processing the metal for
delivery to  Europe  and the U.S.,” Nossoff said. Now
GeoProMining produces concentrate with 60 percent to 66 percent
antimony content and ships it via the Magadan seaport in
 Russia ’s Far East to Chinese customers that have a substantial
unutilized downstream capacity, Nossoff said.  GeoProMining  appointed  Russell King, a former chief
strategy officer at  Anglo American Plc (AAL) , as board chairman last
year. The independent directors also include  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) 
Russia chief Igor Lojevsky, former Bank of Georgia CEO Lado
Gurgenidze and Pavel Teplukhin, former managing director of
Troika Dialog brokerage.  Potential Acquisitions  The main goal for GeoProMining is to build a growing
successful international metals and mining company, not to sell
shares, Nossoff said. The producer seeks to boost production to
500,000 gold-equivalent ounces within three years from about
300,000 ounces last year, he said.  To expand, GeoProMining will look for new mine acquisitions
in the former  Soviet Union , according to Nossoff. The company
has a capital spending target of $160 million for 2012 and 2013
combined and had a margin on earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization of more than 40 percent last year,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  