-- Samsung-LG TVs Thinner Than IPad Undermine Sony-Panasonic: Tech
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g   a n d   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-03-06T06:45:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/samsung-lg-tvs-thinner-than-ipad-undermine-sony-panasonic-tech.html
Samsung Electronics Co. and  LG
Electronics Inc. (066570) , the world’s two biggest TV makers, want to
widen their lead over Japanese rivals by using new display
technology in 55-inch sets thinner than Apple Inc.’s iPad.  The South Korean companies are developing organic light-
emitting diode, or OLED, televisions that are as thin as 4
millimeters (0.16 inches) and produce images 200 times sharper
than current liquid-crystal-display models. Both plan to start
selling OLED sets as early as this year, while  Sony Corp. (005930)  and
 Panasonic Corp. (6752)  haven’t set target dates for introducing them.  Samsung and  LG (066470)  are turning to OLED technology to extend the
advantage they gained during the transition from analog to
digital TVs. Having been slower in ditching bulky sets and now
stuck with growing losses,  Sony (6758)  and Panasonic are again lagging
behind as the OLED market may be the fastest-growing in the $100
billion industry during the next three years.  “OLED TVs could be another game-changer,” said Hyun Park,
a Seoul-based analyst at Tong Yang Securities Inc. “The Korean
companies are leading the initial development stage. Sony and
Japanese companies aren’t really responding.”  Shipments of OLED TVs may grow to 2.1 million sets in 2015
from 34,000 in 2012,  according to  Englewood, Colorado-based IHS
Inc.’s iSuppli.  Samsung shares  rose 0.5 percent to 1,180,000 won, and LG
gained 0.5 percent to 85,000 won at the close of trading in
 Seoul . In Tokyo,  Sony fell  0.8 to 1,678 yen, and Panasonic
dropped 2.1 percent to 711 yen.  Samsung, LG  Using organically glowing materials, OLED TVs don’t require
separate backlights and can be half the thickness of  Apple (AAPL) ’s
iPad 2, which measures 8.8 millimeters. The technology, already
used in mobile devices including Samsung’s  Galaxy  smartphones,
uses less power than LCD and has a higher contrast rate,
creating more vivid images.  Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung and Seoul-based LG showed
55-inch (140-centimeter) sets at the  Consumer Electronics Show 
in Las Vegas in January. LG’s prototype was 4 millimeters thick,
while Samsung declined to discuss dimensions. Both sets have 3-D
and Internet capabilities.  The two  companies  employ different technologies. Samsung
uses red, green and blue OLED materials inside individual pixels
to create images, while LG uses white light and an extra color
filter.  Samsung’s method can be more energy-efficient and show a
broader range of colors, said Paul Semenza, senior vice
president of analyst services at  Santa Clara , California-based
 DisplaySearch . The technology requires greater accuracy and
consistency, making manufacturing harder than LG’s approach, he
said.  Power Consumption  The downside of LG’s technology is higher power consumption
to keep the white layer bright, Semenza said.  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
created a search application with a black background for mobile
phones using OLED technology.  Ha Joon Doo, an analyst at Shinhan Investment Corp. in
Seoul who saw both technologies at the Las Vegas show, said the
OLED sets showed colors better than comparable LCD models. It
was difficult to distinguish between the two prototypes, Ha
said.  “OLED TVs had a bit of more comfortable and natural feel
to colors,” he said.  Japanese manufacturers probably won’t enter the OLED market
until after 2013, said Alvin Lim, an associate director at  Fitch
Ratings  in Seoul.  Sony, Panasonic  Sony’s incoming Chief Executive Officer  Kazuo Hirai  pledged
“painful” cost cuts as the company forecast its TV business
will lose money for the eighth straight year. Tokyo-based Sony
more than doubled its companywide loss forecast to 220 billion
yen ($2.7 billion) for the year ending March 31 because of a
stronger yen and flooding in  Thailand  that disrupted output.  Osaka-based Panasonic almost doubled its loss forecast to a
record 780 billion yen on Feb. 3. Outgoing President Fumio Ohtsubo is eliminating jobs and shifting production abroad as
the stronger currency makes domestic manufacturing more
expensive.  By contrast, Samsung’s fourth-quarter profit rose 17
percent as its TV unit posted operating profit of 570 billion
won ($505 million). The company, which doesn’t give a profit
forecast, plans $22 billion of  capital spending  this year.  “South Korean companies have sizable capital expenditure
and cost-competitiveness,” said Hideki Yasuda, an analyst at
Ace Securities Co. in  Tokyo . “The Japanese companies don’t have
the power” to enter the OLED market, he said.  LCD Focus  Sony, which introduced the first OLED TV with an 11-inch
screen in 2007, is studying the demand for larger sets and the
 investment  that would be needed to make them, Hirai said in an
interview last month.  OLED sets won’t represent the bulk of TV sales “next year,
the year after or even the year after that,” said Hirai, who
becomes CEO on April 1, replacing  Howard Stringer . “The volume
is going to be in the LCD TVs.”  Ohtsubo said in January that Panasonic wants to introduce
OLED sets “not long after” Samsung and LG.  “Development is steadily progressing,” he said. “While
we’ll be releasing it in the market after the two South Korean
companies, we’ll also be looking for the best timing to launch a
product that’s superior in quality to those two.”  Ohtsubo will be replaced by Kazuhiro Tsuga after
shareholders meet in June, Panasonic said Feb. 28.  Manufacturing expenses may favor Hirai’s strategy of
focusing on LCD sets. Samsung and LG both face challenges in
cutting costs, said Vinita Jakhanwal, a Santa Clara, California-
based director for OLED research at iSuppli.  Korean ‘Trendsetters’  A 55-inch OLED set will be priced at about $8,000 in 2012,
more than twice the $3,700 average for an equivalent LCD set,
according to iSuppli. Although the price may fall to about
$4,000 next year, comparable  LCD (WVPR107A)  models may cost less than
$2,000 by then, Jakhanwal said.  “Price is the most important factor,” said Choi Do Yeon,
an analyst at LIG Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul. “Being
thinner and lighter, or expressing colors better, may not be
enough.”  Samsung has to resolve “some technical issues” before
starting mass output of OLED TVs, Kim Hyun Suk, head of the
company’s TV operations, said in an interview in  Las Vegas .  “You can charge $10,000 and $20,000, but that’s not real
volume,” he said. “You can’t do anything without volume.”  LG expects to start selling “more competitively priced”
models earlier than rivals, Roh Seong Ho, senior vice president
at LG’s Home Entertainment Company, said in an e-mail. Initial
investment costs and low output rates pose the biggest
obstacles, Roh said.  Production will be low because, for now, both Samsung and
LG don’t have enough capacity or enough equipment to mass-
produce OLED TVs.  Slowing sales of TVs may accelerate Samsung and LG’s push
to overcome OLED’s cost challenges. Global TV shipments may fall
2.8 percent this year to 252 million units, iSuppli estimates.
LCD units make up 88 percent of the total.  “Samsung and LG are making a market right now,” Lim said.
“Japanese companies aren’t trendsetters any more. They’re just
following markets created by the  Koreans (KOEXTOT) .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  