-- Schumer Wants Early Fight on Ending Tax Cuts for Top Earners
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-03-05T16:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/schumer-wants-early-fight-on-ending-tax-cuts-for-highest-earners.html
Senate Democrats are considering a
debate on ending the George W. Bush-era tax cuts for top earners
before the November election because they think they’re in a
stronger position than in 2010, Senator  Charles Schumer  said.  The tax cuts expire for all income brackets on Dec. 31.
Schumer of New York, the third-ranking Senate Democrat and
architect of his party’s communications strategy, says he
doesn’t want to wait until the end of the year to debate
Republicans over ending the break for high-earning taxpayers.
The issue is part of the Democratic campaign theme of promoting
tax fairness, he said.  The Senate’s majority Democrats may bring the issue to the
floor for debate over the next few months to make their point.  “That is one of the things we’re looking at very
carefully,” Schumer told reporters Feb. 28. “I think that the
public is on our side.”  Senate Republicans, including  John Thune  of  South Dakota ,
say Democrats risk overplaying the fairness issue. Thune, a
member of the tax-writing Finance Committee, said Republicans
will argue that a tax increase for some high earners would wind
up raising taxes for small businesses. Many owners of small
companies report their business income on individual tax
returns.  ‘Really Tough Place’  Democrats “are going to be in a really tough place in
December” during a lame-duck session, Thune said in a Feb. 29
interview. “I still think that the message that we will carry,
which is that you will be having a massive tax increase on small
businesses, trumps” the Democrats’ inequality argument.  Democrats say they have gained the upper hand on the tax
debate since 2010. The issue may bolster Democrats’ effort to
gain control of the House in November, said Representative Steve Israel of  New York , chairman of House Democrats’ campaign
committee.  “The landscape has completely shifted,” Israel said in a
March 1 interview. “Every time Republicans are defending tax
cuts for millionaires and blocking tax cuts for the middle
class, we win.”  Senator Sheldon Whitehouse, a Rhode Island Democrat, called
the approach the “Jericho strategy,” akin to the biblical
story of Joshua crumbling the city’s defenses by leading his
army in marching seven circuits around its walls. Senate
Democrats could use repeated votes and public pressure to sway
Republicans, he said.  ‘Can’t Take It’  “There’s a point at which they can’t take it any longer,”
he said at a Feb. 29 event at the Center for American Progress,
a Washington group often aligned with Democrats.  The emboldened Democratic stance is a shift from 2010.
Democrats including Representative Gerry Connolly of  Virginia 
and Senators  Claire McCaskill  of  Missouri  and Barbara Mikulski
of  Maryland  said party leaders mishandled the issue then.  Democrats at the time had commanding majorities in the
House and Senate. Some Democrats facing re-election in November
2010 worried that voters would reject them if they supported
higher taxes for top earners. Democratic leaders decided to
forgo votes on extending the tax cuts for all except the top
brackets until after the election.  By then, Democrats had lost their House majority and
narrowed their lead in the Senate. Facing the possibility that
an impasse would lead to expiration of the tax breaks even for
the middle class, President  Barack Obama  made a deal with Senate
Republicans to extend the cuts for all income brackets through
2012. Obama has said he won’t make a similar deal again.  ‘Should Have’  “It hurt us because we did not resolve this issue” before
the 2010 election, Connolly said. “We should have and could
have, but didn’t, and it gave a free issue to our opponents.”  Mikulski said Democrats can’t allow the same scenario to
play out.  “We’ve got to put it in the sunshine” before the
election, Mikulski said in a Feb. 28 interview.  Other Democrats are urging more caution. Senate Finance
Committee Chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat, said the
strategy on the tax cut will “gradually take shape” on his
panel before the end of the year.  “I’m going to have a lot of hearings of the Finance
Committee on  tax reform  and that will be a good opportunity for
senators to indicate their views,” he said in a Feb. 28
interview.  ‘All Rhetoric’  Senator  Robert Menendez , a New Jersey Democrat and a member
of the Finance panel, said an effort to address the tax cuts
before the election would be “all rhetoric and not a lot of
substance.”  Representative Bill Pascrell, a New Jersey Democrat and
member of the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee, said
lawmakers should focus on renewing and extending miscellaneous
tax breaks before turning to the Bush-era cuts.  “We have over 60 tax cuts that have expired,” he said in
an interview. “It would seem to me that we should address those
first.”  Senate Democrats  are defending 23 seats in November
compared with 10 for Republicans. Democrats in competitive
races, such as McCaskill, said they would welcome the chance to
vote on extending tax cuts only for the middle class.  “It’s a great idea,” she said in a March 1 interview.
“It’s important that the people in my state know whose side I’m
on.”  ‘Not About Timing’  Another Senate Democrat in a competitive re-election
campaign,  Debbie Stabenow  of  Michigan , said she would support
holding votes on extending the tax cuts for the middle class in
the coming months.  “It’s not about timing,” Stabenow said in an interview.
“It’s about getting something done.”  Congress first enacted the tax cuts in 2001 and 2003.
Continuing them for all income levels would cost $4.5 trillion
over 10 years in forgone revenue to the Treasury, according to
the Obama administration’s 2013 budget proposal. Extending them
only for individuals making less than $200,000 a year and
married couples making less than $250,000 would cost $3.7
trillion over 10 years.  If Democratic leaders press for a debate and votes on the
issue, they will have to decide what constitutes a high earner.
The threshold in previous debates mostly centered on $200,000
for individuals and $250,000 for married couples.  $1 Million  Some Democrats suggest moving the line to $1 million to
sharpen their argument that Republicans want to preserve tax
breaks for millionaires.  “I’ve always felt $1 million is the right place to be,”
Schumer said in a March 1 interview.  Obama hasn’t said whether he would support such a shift,
though he helped form his party’s position by proposing the so-
called Buffett Rule, named after billionaire investor  Warren Buffett , who favors higher taxes for the richest Americans. The
president said anyone who earns more than $1 million should pay
at least 30 percent in taxes.  Republicans have opposed previous efforts to raise taxes
for those with income exceeding $1 million. Given that hurdle,
Senator  Richard Durbin  of  Illinois , the chamber’s No. 2
Democrat, said Democrats shouldn’t surrender the $250,000 line.  “I’m in the $250,000 club, I always have been,” Durbin
said. “Some push the million-dollar threshold to see if that
extreme position would weigh on the conscience of some of our
Republican friends, and apparently it is of no weight.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  