-- Scots May Extend Life of Nuclear Plants Before Renewable Target
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2012-03-05T14:23:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/scots-may-extend-life-of-nuclear-plants-before-renewable-target.html
Scotland  may extend the life of the
country’s two nuclear plants, which are operated by  Electricite
de France SA (EDF) , to help the transition to producing all of its
electricity from renewable sources by 2020.  The  Scottish government  said today it still plans to phase
out nuclear power over time and rely on cleaner thermal energy
to reduce carbon emissions, according to an e-mailed statement
setting out its  draft energy strategy . It said it was on track
to meet the target in eight years time.  “This does not preclude extending the operating life of
Scotland’s existing nuclear stations to help maintain security
of supply over the next decade,” it said. “Subject to the
relevant safety cases being made, the government would not
oppose operating life extension applications at these sites.”  The Scottish administration in Edinburgh, which is
campaigning for independence from the rest of Britain, has the
most ambitious target in the European Union for generating
electricity from wind, hydro and marine energy. Its nuclear
policy differs from the U.K. government, which has agreed to
build more power stations as part of its strategy of meeting EU
targets to cut  carbon emissions .  Electricite de France  is planning to submit plans to extend
the operating life of the Torness and Hunterston plants in
Scotland by at least five years, the government said.
Hunterston, which is situated on the west coast south of
Glasgow, is otherwise due to close in 2016. Torness, which is
east of Edinburgh, is scheduled to shut in 2023.  Scotland intends to de-carbonize all electricity generation
by 2030 through the use of  carbon capture  deploying empty
offshore aquifers that previously held oil and gas.  The government also plans to have 11 percent of heat
generated by renewable energy by 2020, almost four times the
current level of 2.8 percent. Heat accounts for about half of
Scotland’s current energy consumption.  Scotland, the windiest country in  Europe , accounts for 25
percent of EU offshore wind capability, the same proportion of
tidal power and 10 percent of wave power, the government said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net  