-- Scottish Fossil Trove Shows When Sea Creatures Started Walking on Land
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-03-05T20:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/scottish-fossil-trove-shows-when-sea-creatures-started-walking-on-land.html
Hundreds of fossils discovered in 
 Scotland  may show which creatures crawled out of the water to
populate the land after a mass extinction 359 million years ago, 
according to research that also resets the timeline for animals 
with fingers and toes.  The fossils are from a mysterious 30-million-year blank in 
the record known as Romer’s Gap, named for Alfred Romer, the 
paleontologist who first recognized it, according to a study in 
the journal  Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences .  The period has confounded researchers' efforts to 
understand how creatures evolved because of a lack of evidence. 
The fossils found in Scotland from four-legged life forms 
demonstrate that having five fingers and toes arose 20 million 
years earlier than scientists thought.  “Everything is getting pulled back in the fossil record,”
said  Jennifer Clack , a paleontologist at the University of
Cambridge in the U.K. and study author. “This gives us a clue
to how quickly that the ability to walk on land with a
conventional foot evolved -- much faster than previously
thought.”  The discoveries suggest that the gap in the record was
due only to collection failure. Before today, only one full
skeleton and a few isolated bones dating from this period had
been found.  Extinction Recovery  The new information suggests that life recovered from a
known mass extinction event at the end of the Devonian period,
which was about 359 million to 416 million years ago, more
quickly than researchers had once thought. Fish groups evolved
into big freshwater forms including lungfishes, which can
breathe air, and rhizodonts, which are now extinct. By 345.3
million years ago, animals that are usually considered to be
land-dwellers had appeared.  “This is a great opportunity to see a block of time that
was sort of blacked out for us because of volcanic activity,”
said Bob Carroll, a paleontologist at Redpath Museum at  McGill
University  in  Montreal , in a telephone interview. “On the sea
to the land, we have, in a way, a better window.”  It also challenges the idea that there was a  low-oxygen
period  where only aquatic animals could survive, Clack said.
Because the environment had a lot of volcanic activity, there
may have been an unusually high level of carbon dioxide in the
air, some researchers had thought.  Clues in Charcoal  Charcoal deposits found along with the fossils suggest that
wasn’t the case, and future research may focus on the general
environment these animals lived in, she said. Charcoal is plant
material that’s been partly burned without being entirely
incinerated, so scientists can identify the plants it was made
from.  The Scottish fossils are from newly excavated locations
that include the coastal section at Burnmouth north of Berwick
on Tweed, the banks and bed of the Whiteadder River near
Chirnside, the banks of the Tweed River near Coldstream and
sedimentary strata near Tantallon Castle. All are to the east of
Edinburgh. Two previously known locations, Dumbarton in western
Scotland and Blue Beach near Horton Bluff in  Nova Scotia ,
 Canada , also contributed fossils.  Besides the sites where these fossils were found, there are
some indications that another cache of animals from this period
may be in a site near Pittsburgh. There are contemporary
deposits near there, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  