-- Scots Flirt With Independence in Biggest Test of United Kingdom
-- B y   R o d n e y   J e f f e r s o n
-- 2012-03-05T15:13:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/scots-flirt-with-independence-in-biggest-test-of-united-kingdom.html
Three ensigns flutter outside the
Scottish Parliament in Edinburgh: a British  Union Jack , a local
 Saltire  featuring a diagonal white cross on a blue background,
and the yellow stars of Europe. Political leaders inside the
building are plotting to get rid of the first flag.  Alex Salmond , who runs Scotland’s semi-autonomous
government, plans a vote on independence in the second half of
2014. That gives him 2 1/2 years to convince voters leaving the
U.K. is more beneficial to Scotland than sticking with the 305-
year-old union. Polls suggest he may prevail, with enough people
undecided to sway the result in favor of a break.  “There is a momentum towards independence,” said David
Hunter, 50, who sells and rents multimedia gear from his Pegasus
Sound and Light shop opposite the parliament. “We’re just not
being told the full story about how far this is going to go.”  Whether Salmond wins or loses the vote on making  Scotland 
Europe’s newest sovereign state, the Scottish leader has proven
himself a formidable opponent challenging Prime Minister  David Cameron  to cede more power. Salmond, 57, wants full control over
Scotland’s 140 billion-pound ($222 billion) economy, including
income and  corporation tax  and the ability to borrow money. He
is counting on renewable energy such as wind and wave power to
boost growth, along with financial services and tourism.  ‘Something In-Between’  The Scottish government currently has authority over
health, transport, justice and education. Scotland’s 5.2 million
residents make up 8.4 percent of the U.K.’s 62 million people.
They get free care for the elderly, free university tuition and
free medical prescriptions, all of which people living in
 England  must pay for.  While Salmond’s Scottish  National Party  won an
unprecedented majority in May 2011 elections, polls show most
Scots are lukewarm on independence.  “It’s seems to be that the vast majority of Scots neither
want independence nor do they want the status quo,” said David
Torrance, author of the 2010 biography “Salmond: Against the
Odds.” “They want something in-between. It’s ill-defined.”  A  poll  of 998 adults between Jan. 25, when Scots celebrate
national poet  Robert Burns  and the day Salmond put forward his
referendum plan, and Feb. 1 emphasized the indecision.  When asked whether Scotland should negotiate with the U.K.
on independence, 35 percent would vote “yes,” down four
percentage points from August, while 44 percent would vote
“no,” up six points, with 21 percent undecided, down two
points. The survey by TNS-BMRB was published on Feb. 3.  ‘Leap of Faith’  Cameron, with the support of all three main parties in the
Westminster Parliament in  London , says Scotland is better off
staying part of  Europe ’s third-largest economy. Salmond says
independence will give the Scottish Parliament, re-established
in 1999, the fiscal autonomy it needs to revive growth.  “The unionist argument that independence is a leap of
faith isn’t totally inaccurate and there is going to be an
element of uncertainty that can’t be resolved,” said  Nicola
McEwen , co-director of the Institute of Governance at Edinburgh
University. “Two and a half years is a long, long time and it’s
impossible to predict.”  Salmond, a former oil economist whose supporters include
News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch , has said he wants to
consider a third option of greater power for Scotland over its
own finances that stops short of independence. Cameron advocates
a simple “yes” or “no” referendum to staying in the U.K.  Eric Carroll, manager of record store Unknown Pleasures, a
two-minute walk from the Scottish Parliament, is adamant
Scotland must stay in the U.K.  Growth Comparisons  “I don’t want to live anywhere else in the world, and I’ve
been all over, but I’d rather they concentrate on the big
issues,” Carroll, 59, said as tourists browsed nearby stores
for souvenirs including tartan kilts, bagpipes, Glenfiddich
Whisky and stag antlers. “I’ll definitely vote no. I’ve no
interest in it. I’m British.”  Gross domestic product  in Scotland grew 0.5 percent in the
third quarter of 2011, in line with the U.K. overall. In the
fourth quarter, the British economy shrank 0.2 percent, while
the Scottish figure is due April 18. The  unemployment rate  in
Scotland was 8.6 percent in the September to November period,
compared with 8.4 percent for the U.K. overall, the Scottish
government said in a statement on Jan. 18.  Taking local responsibility for raising income and spending
has won support from Scots, including Martin Gilbert, chief
executive officer of Aberdeen Asset Management Plc, Scotland’s
largest fund company with 174 billion pounds of assets under
management.  Oil Revenue  Control of 90 percent of the oil and gas revenue generated
from the seas around the country would deliver about 10 billion
pounds to Scotland in the fiscal year ending this month, based
on Treasury figures. That’s a bit more than a third of the
Scottish government’s budget of 28 billion pounds for the year.  “The trouble with their scenario is it’s a best-case
scenario and it assumes rather too much,” author Torrance said.
“It assumes an absolutely stable, relatively buoyant situation;
it assumes  oil prices  remain high; it assumes production remains
relatively consistent; it assumes the  credit rating  stays the
same.”  David Bell, professor of economics at  Stirling University ,
about 35 miles northwest of Edinburgh, said while oil revenue
may represent “cash bonanza,” it isn’t enough to maintain
current public spending and set up the sovereign wealth fund
that Salmond says he wants.  Banking Errors  Salmond has also said an independent Scotland would not
share responsibility for the 132 billion pounds of impaired
assets owned by  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , Britain’s
biggest state-owned lender. It has its headquarters in Edinburgh
and is one of three banks issuing Scottish pound notes.  Those assets are insured by the government’s Asset
Protection Scheme. Former Chancellor of the Exchequer Alistair Darling, a Scot, said the decisions the bank made that got it
into trouble were made in Edinburgh and not London.  The U.K. government expects to spend 50 billion pounds on
interest payments on its debt for the current financial year,
according to the 2011 budget. On a per capita basis and assuming
it could borrow on the same AAA-rated terms, Scotland’s share
would be about 4.2 billion pounds.  The referendum will make it harder to invest in Scotland
until the outcome is known,  SSE Plc (SSE) , the U.K.’s second-largest
residential energy supplier, said on Feb. 24. The lack of
clarity means SSE may have to seek higher returns from projects
in Scotland, the company said in a submission to the Scottish
and U.K. governments.  ‘Uncertain About Independence’  Hunter at Pegasus Sound and Light watched the construction
of the 431 million-pound parliament building from scratch. It
opened in 2004, three years late and 10 times over budget, after
the legislature moved from temporary accommodation further up
the Royal Mile where it had been reconvened for the first time
since  the Act of Union  created the U.K. in 1707.  Hunter does business across Scotland and northern England,
and many of his equipment suppliers are based in London. He’s
concerned times will get tougher if the U.K. breaks up.  “I’ve seen the parliament grow in power over the years and
I agree with that,” said Hunter, who opened his store 25 years
ago. “I’m just uncertain about independence.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodney Jefferson in Edinburgh at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Gilbert at   magilbert@bloomberg.net  