-- Shell Nigeria Case Puts Court in Foreign Territory: Noah Feldman
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2012-03-05T00:05:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/shell-nigeria-case-puts-court-in-foreign-territory-noah-feldman.html
Should corporations be held liable
for acts of torture committed under their auspices? If that had
been the only issue considered by the Supreme Court last week in
Kiobel v. Royal Dutch Petroleum, the logical answer would surely
have to be yes.  If corporations are people for the purpose of
constitutional rights like free speech -- as per the  Citizens
United  decision -- they ought to be treated as people when it
comes to responsibilities as well. If  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) 
aided the Nigerian government in raping and murdering people in
the Ogoni region to keep the oil flowing, as the plaintiffs
claim, it would seem monstrous to let the company get away with
it just because it is a corporation.  Yet that was not the only issue before the court -- at
least if you listened to the justices during oral argument. They
seemed preoccupied with a prior question: Are the federal courts
the right place to hold foreigners responsible for human-rights
violations that take place abroad against other foreigners?  On this question, reasonable minds can differ. Human-rights
advocates say yes. As a practical matter, there is often no
other venue where victims can have justice done. The Nigerian
courts are not much of an option for Nigerians who allege that
they were abused and tortured by their government. International
courts rarely concern themselves with the minutiae of ordinary
human-rights violations.  Justice Denied  Who, then, will provide justice to people who are tortured
but not subject to genocide? Who will draw attention to their
plight in an official judicial forum if not the U.S. courts,
respected the world over for their objectivity and fairness?  Many, perhaps most, Americans would take the other side.
Why should our courts police the actions of foreigners abroad?
That almost no other country on earth would even consider
extending its jurisdiction to noncitizens outside its borders
makes the effort look especially quixotic, not to say
imperialistic. Traditionally, countries steered clear of such
extraterritorial jurisdiction, considering it a violation of
other nations’ sovereignty.  Further complicating matters, assessing damages against
foreigners involved in conflicts far away can plunge courts into
political waters that they are ill-prepared to navigate.
Ordinarily we think that the president should make our foreign
policy, not the courts.  Meddling in foreign conflicts -- or even just appearing to
meddle -- can work against U.S. interests in ways that are hard
to anticipate. It may even work against the interests of
justice: If citizens in another country have decided to resolve
a history of human-rights abuses with, say, a truth and
reconciliation commission, a U.S. verdict against a human-rights
abuser can actually unsettle arrangements that would serve the
greater good.  Given these alternative views, whether our courts should
hear such cases sounds like a classic policy question for
Congress, not the courts. But -- surprise! -- Congress has
failed to weigh in. Our elected representatives have not
addressed the issue since, oh, 1789, to be exact. The very first
Congress passed a one-sentence law, the  Alien Tort Statute ,
which gave courts the authority to hear lawsuits against
foreigners for damages under the “law of nations.”  The law sat dormant for nearly 200 years. Then, in 1980,
the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in  New
York  issued a decision,  Filartiga v. Pena-Irala , that
enthusiasts have called the Brown v. Board of Education of
human-rights litigation. The decision, which allowed a
Paraguayan couple to file suit in a U.S. court against a
Paraguayan police official who had tortured their son in
 Paraguay , opened the door to other prominent human-rights suits,
including a 1995 case against Serbian politician Radovan Karadzic, who was a fugitive until 2008.  Congressional Apathy  If Congress did not want these human-rights suits to occur,
it could have changed the law to disallow them. In 2004, perhaps
influenced by this thought, the Supreme Court for the first time
upheld the legitimacy of such a suit in  Sosa v. Alvarez-Machain .
The court spoke through a narrow opinion by Justice David Souter, joined by Justice Sandra Day O’Connor among others,
which restricted the violations applicable to wrongs recognized
by international law specifically as those as of 1789.  Souter’s characteristically cautious opinion at times
sounded as though it was on the verge of doing away with the
suits altogether; but the virtue of prudence (remember when the
justices used to like that quality?) prevailed. Instead of
broadening or eliminating human-rights jurisprudence, the court
preserved it for another day.  Now that O’Connor has retired and been replaced by Justice
 Samuel Alito , the conservatives’ game plan is to revisit some of
the landmark decisions of her long career. None of the justices
on Wednesday went so far as to say that they would reverse the
2004 holding and make human-rights suits go away. But Alito did
ask, “What business does a case like that have in the courts of
the  United States ? There’s no connection to the United States
whatsoever.”  More likely, the justices will adopt a highly formalistic
argument based on a legal technicality: International law has
not historically treated corporations as people for purposes of
liability.  On its own terms, this argument is more than a little
outrageous. The international law of 1789 wasn’t concerned with
civil-damage suits like this one, but with criminal liability,
which is a strange fit for corporations under any circumstances.
As Justice  Stephen Breyer  pointed out, it is absurd to think
that a corporation called Pirates Incorporated would not have
been held liable for Bluebeard’s piracy if he worked for it.  The idea of money damages for torture is itself distinctly
American. There is no policy reason whatsoever to spare
corporations in this country if individuals would be held
liable.  Indeed, if our goal is to deter human-rights violations,
holding corporations liable is infinitely more effective than
going after isolated individuals and serving them with papers
the moment they unsuspectingly cross our borders.  But the conservative justices aren’t concerned with
consistency in this case. To the contrary, they want to limit
human-rights suits as much as they can without actually
overturning the precedent that allows them. At least for now. If
their opinion sounds anything like their questions at oral
argument, you can expect future litigants to ask the court to
get out of the human rights business altogether.  ( Noah Feldman , a law professor at  Harvard University  and
the author of “Scorpions: The Battles and Triumphs of FDR’s
Great  Supreme Court  Justices,” is a Bloomberg View columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Noah Feldman in Cambridge, Massachusetts, at
 noah_feldman@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 