-- SingTel Agrees to Buy Amobee for $321 Million to Expand Mobile Advertising
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2012-03-05T09:31:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/singtel-agrees-to-buy-amobee-for-321-million-to-expand-mobile-advertising.html
Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. (ST) ,
 Southeast Asia ’s biggest phone company, agreed to buy Amobee
Inc. for $321 million in cash to expand in mobile advertising
amid a surge in demand for smartphones.  The acquisition of Redwood, California-based  Amobee  is
expected to be completed before June, SingTel, as the Singapore-
based company is known, said in a filing today. Products from
the acquisition will be introduced within a year.  SingTel expects to generate growth by expanding the mobile
ads business to offer deals targeted at consumers such as
through coupons and loyalty programs as it reduces the reliance
on traditional phone services. Wireless operators are counting
on the popularity of smartphones such as Apple Inc.’s iPhone to
drive up usage of data and applications to revive profit growth.  “Mobile devices today play an important role in everyday
life,” SingTel said in the statement. “We want to capture that
growth in developed and emerging markets with this
acquisition.”  Worldwide tablet-computer sales more than doubled and
smartphone demand surged 47 percent in the last quarter,
according to data from researchers. That increases the
possibility of ads on mobile devices.  Consumers spend 2 hours per day on the phone, SingTel said
in a presentation slide today. Mobile advertising is a high-
growth opportunity with projected revenues surpassing $20
billion by 2015, according to a handout at a press conference in
 Singapore  today.  Venture Fund  The city-state’s biggest phone operator, whose largest
shareholder is Temasek Holdings Pte, set up a S$200 million
($159 million) fund in 2010 to invest in new ventures to get
access to technology and boost growth.  The SingTel Innov8 venture fund was part of the company’s
plan to transform itself from a traditional home and wireless
phone supplier to a multimedia and information-technology
services provider. The company has about 434 million customers
in 25 countries, across Asia and Africa though its own units and
associates such as  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI)   SingTel shares declined 0.6 percent to S$3.13 in Singapore
trading. They have gained 1.3 percent this year, compared with a
13 percent jump in the  Straits Times Index. (FSSTI)   Revamped Structure  The company will also reorganize itself into three
businesses of consumer, digital services and information
technology for large business and government customers.  Paul O’Sullivan, who currently heads SingTel’s Optus unit
in  Australia , will run the consumer division while Singapore
chief executive officer Allen Lew will be in charge of the
digital unit.  The new business structure will take effect on April 1.  “Pan-group management across such a large and diverse
portfolio will not be an easy task, and execution will be
challenging,” Nicole McCormick, a senior analyst at market
researcher Ovum, said in an e-mailed statement. “Country
differences will need to be taken into account.”  SingTel owns all of its Singapore and Australian phone
businesses in addition to minority stakes in six other mobile
operators including Bharti,  India ’s largest wireless operator,
PT Telekomunikasi Selular in  Indonesia  and  Advanced Info Service
Pcl (ADVANC)  in  Thailand .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mike Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  