-- Softbank Renewable Plan Hinges on Grid Access, Think Tank Says
-- B y   S t u a r t   B i g g s
-- 2012-03-05T09:56:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/softbank-renewable-plan-hinges-on-grid-access-think-tank-says.html
Softbank Corp. (9984)  chief Masayoshi Son’s
$246 million plan to reduce  Japan ’s dependence on nuclear energy
will hinge more on a freer power market than on subsidies,
according to the think tank he set up.  Son, chief executive officer of Japan’s third-biggest
mobile phone company, plans to invest as much as 20 billion yen
with partners to develop clean-energy projects. The prospects
for wind, solar and other technologies would be boosted by
ending monopolies held by Japan’s power companies or by
guaranteeing access to the utility-owned grid, Tomas Kaaberger,
head of the Japan Renewable Energy Foundation, said today.  “The most important development in northern  Europe  that
facilitated the modernization of the electricity system was the
introduction of a competitive market on a regulated, neutral
grid,” Kaaberger said in  Tokyo . “I would never believe that
companies controlling existing power plants would be fair in
accepting new competitors onto the grid, if they own the grid.”  Following the nuclear disaster at  Tokyo Electric Power
Co. (9501) ’s plant in Fukushima last March, Japan’s government
introduced a law to promote a shift from nuclear power toward
renewable energy, including preferential rates for clean energy.
The law, which goes into effect on July 1, doesn’t rule on grid
access or address the issue of who bears the cost for new
transmission lines or increasing grid capacity.  Challenge to Utilities  Passage of the legislation was a victory for outgoing Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan  and was viewed as a challenge to the
country’s regional utilities, which dominate production,
transmission and distribution of power throughout the country,
generating combined annual revenue of 15.7 trillion yen ($193
billion), according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The government also began a review of the industry,
including exploring changes to the law to spin off the
transmission businesses from power plants.  Existing energy costs are above the level that would make
wind, and perhaps solar, competitive without subsidies,
Kaaberger said. The government needs to clarify the rights of
new producers and the conditions of their grid access to
stimulate investment, he said.  Son has said previously his investment plans depend on the
government guaranteeing access to the grid.  “You don’t need a feed-in tariff, you just need to be
allowed to enjoy the market price that would be set if this
country had an open  electricity market ,” Kaaberger said. As a
new investor, “if you can’t predict how your plant will be
treated, you won’t even start.”  SB Energy Corp., a Softbank unit, said today it will build
a 2.4-megawatt solar plant with  Sharp Corp. (6753)  in Gunma prefecture
in central Japan. The company also won a contract with  Kyocera
Corp. (6971)  to build and operate a 4.2-megawatt solar plant in Kyoto,
the company said in a separate statement. Both are expected to
start output in time for the introduction of feed-in tariffs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 