-- Sommers Is ‘Deeply Concerned’ Over Lack of CFTC, SEC Coordination on Swaps
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-03-05T20:41:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/sommers-is-deeply-concerned-over-lack-of-cftc-sec-coordination-on-swaps.html
The inability of U.S. regulators to
agree on guidelines for the international reach of the Dodd-
Frank Act may disrupt the $708 trillion global swaps market,
said Jill E. Sommers, a Republican member of the  Commodity
Futures Trading Commission .  “I’m deeply concerned that there has not been adequate
coordination” with the U.S.  Securities and Exchange Commission 
and non-U.S. regulators, she said today in a speech at an
 Institute of International Bankers  conference in Washington.
“Of even greater concern to me is that the commission appears
to be considering a piecemeal approach,” she said of the CFTC.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  have argued that the Dodd-Frank proposal threatens to
hurt the competitiveness of Wall Street banks compared with
their non-U.S. rivals.  Michel Barnier , the European Union
financial markets commissioner, has urged U.S. regulators to
better coordinate Dodd-Frank rules with counterparts in other
nations that are also writing new regulations following the 2008
credit crisis.  The CFTC may publish guidelines within weeks on the
international reach of the rules, Sommers said. The guidelines
will cover when institutions would be required to register with
the CFTC as swap dealers. The agency may consider other
guidelines or rules governing the international reach of new
clearing and market-infrastructure rules. The guidelines would
be open to public comment, Sommers told reporters after the
speech.  The agencies should publish a joint or coordinated rule,
Sommers said.  Reducing Market Risk  The CFTC and SEC are leading U.S. efforts to write new
derivatives regulations to reduce risk and increase transparency
in the swaps market. The regulations seek to have most swaps
guaranteed by clearinghouses that stand between buyers and
sellers, and traded on exchanges or other venues.  Sommers said the CFTC’s regulations have not adequately
considered public comments and have lacked an analysis of their
costs and benefits.  “I do not believe that these rules have a chance of
withstanding the test of time but instead believe that the
commission will be consumed over the next few years using our
valuable resources to rewrite the rules we knew or should have
known would not work when we issued them,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  