-- Speculative Wagers on Agriculture Surge to a Five-Month High: Commodities
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2012-03-05T20:26:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/speculative-wagers-on-crops-reach-five-month-high-commodities.html
Speculators increased bets on higher
agricultural prices to a five-month high on mounting concern
that a South American drought will curb supplies of soybeans,
corn and sugar at a time of record global demand.  A measure of speculative positions across 11 farm goods
jumped 26 percent to 607,721 futures and options in the week
ended Feb. 28, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission  data 
show. Corn bets increased the most in eight weeks, and sugar
holdings climbed to the highest since August. Wagers on higher
soybean prices rose to a five-month high.  Hedge funds  and other speculators are the most bullish on
commodities since September as sanctions on  Iran  over its
nuclear program disrupt oil supplies and weather damages crops
in  South America . Producers were already struggling to keep up
with demand from a global population that surpassed 7 billion
people last year, with consumption now boosted by signs that
economic growth is accelerating.  “Weather and the perception of damages to supply” have
pushed prices higher, said Osvaldo Canavosio, the New York-based
head of emerging markets and commodities research at Man
Investments USA LLC, which manages about $11.2 billion of
assets. “There’s been a continuing pattern of the rest of the
world outside the U.S. being an important driver of supply-and-
demand dynamics.”  Trading Partners  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Agriculture Spot Index of eight
commodities rose 2 percent last week, reaching a three-month
high. Through March 2, the gauge advanced 7.3 percent since mid-
January as the broader S&P index of 24 raw materials gained 7.2
percent. The MSCI All-Country World Index of equities jumped 6.7
percent, and the U.S. Dollar Index, a measure against six
trading partners, retreated 1.5 percent. Treasuries lost 0.3
percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Gains in farm commodities last week were led by wheat,
which surged 5.2 percent, the most since January. Soybeans
climbed for 10 consecutive sessions, the longest rally since
July, and corn reached a seven-week high on Feb. 29. Soybeans
for May delivery fell 0.6 percent to settle at $13.25 a bushel
on the Chicago Board of Trade today.  U.S. soybean inventories before the 2013 harvest may fall
25 percent as exports climb to a record, the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  said Feb. 24. Global  reserves  of the oilseed are
shrinking the most in 16 years as demand for food, fuel and feed
expands, according to Jefferies Bache LLC. Drought in South
America caused “irreversible crop damage,” and the global
harvest may decline by the most ever, Hamburg-based research
company Oil World said in a report last week.  Farmer Sales  The surge in prices will probably spur producers to plant
more. U.S. farmers will sow the most acres in a generation this
year, including the biggest corn crop since World War II,
according to a Bloomberg survey of 36 farmers, bankers and
analysts last month. Corn  production  may jump 15 percent to a
record 14.27 billion bushels, the USDA said Feb. 24.  “A lot of good news is already factored into a pretty
scary world,” said Shonda Warner, the managing partner of Chess
Ag Full Harvest Partners in Clarksdale,  Mississippi , which
oversees about $100 million of assets. “Barring some awful
weather event, there’s going to be a heck of a lot of grain at
the end of the year.”  Sugar Rally  Speculators boosted bullish soybean positions by 21 percent
to 117,678 contracts last week, the highest since September. The
drought in South America also is prompting investors to bet on a
sugar rally, as wagers last week jumped 45 percent. Shrinking
U.S. livestock herds spurred funds to lift  wagers  on a cattle
rally for a seventh consecutive week, the longest expansion
since October.  U.S. beef exports rose 21 percent in 2011, and the U.S.
cattle herd was the smallest since 1952 as of Jan. 1, USDA data
show. Sugar output in  Brazil ’s Center South, the world’s largest
producing region, dropped 6.6 percent as of Feb. 15, after
growers harvested the smallest cane crop in four years,
according to Unica, an industry association.  Funds increased their net-long positions across 18 U.S.
commodities by 15 percent to 1.18 million contracts in the week
ended Feb. 28, the highest since Sept. 13. Bullish crude-oil
wagers climbed 5 percent to a 10-month high, and copper holdings
reached the highest since August.  Precious Metals  Investors added $833 million to commodity funds in the week
ended Feb. 29, according to Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR
Global, which tracks investment flows. It was the second
consecutive gain. Gold and precious metals accounted for $506
million of the total, said  Cameron Brandt , the company’s
director of research.  The outlook for global growth is “very bullish for
commodities,” said  John Stephenson , who helps manage $2.7
billion of assets at First Asset Investment Management Inc. in
Toronto. “The  U.S. economy  is moving along,  Europe  hasn’t
resolved its problems, but it’s moving forward in addressing
them, and unless  China  falls out of bed, it’s a good story.”  Reports last week showed China’s  manufacturing  expanded at
a faster-than-expected pace in February and a factory gauge for
 India  was close to an eight-month high. The number of Americans
filing first-time claims for  unemployment benefits  held near the
lowest in almost four years and U.S. auto sales accelerated to
the fastest pace since 2008.  Raw-material investments may rise by as much as $40 billion
this year as investors favor oil, gold and copper,  Barclays
Capital  said in a report last week. Commodity assets under
management climbed $15 billion to $399 billion last year.  Economic growth and monetary policies are “fueling a
reinvestment back into assets leveraged to global growth,” said
 Jon Fisher , a  fund manager  at Fifth Third Asset Management in
 Minneapolis , which oversees about $16 billion of assets. “I
expect this trend to remain in place well into the spring.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  