-- Stanford Fraud Trial Jury to Keep Deliberating
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-03-06T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/stanford-fraud-jury-ordered-by-judge-to-keep-deliberating-after-deadlock.html
The judge in R. Allen Stanford’s
fraud trial ordered the jury to return to deliberations after
the panel sent a note saying it couldn’t reach a unanimous
verdict in its fourth day of reviewing the evidence.  The eight men and four women on the jury told U.S. District
Judge David Hittner in Houston yesterday they were “unable to
reach a verdict on each of the 14 counts,” the judge said,
reading their note to attorneys for both sides.  Hittner instructed jurors to “continue your deliberations
in this case,” telling them the trial has been costly in terms
of both time and money, that the lawyers were unlikely going to
be able to put on a better trial and that another jury was
unlikely to be more conscientious.  “It is your duty to agree upon a verdict if you can do so,
without surrendering your conscientious opinion,’” Hittner told
them.  Stanford, 61, is accused of leading a $7 billion
international fraud scheme involving the sale of certificates of
deposit issued by his Antigua-based bank. He faces as long as 20
years in prison if found guilty of the most severe charges, mail
fraud and  wire fraud . The financier maintains he is not guilty.  After the jury returned to deliberations, lead prosecutor
Gregg Costa told the judge the jury’s note could be construed as
meaning it couldn’t agree on any one of the 14 counts against
Stanford or upon all of the counts.  ‘We’ll See’  While acknowledging the possibility of having to accept a
partial verdict, Hitter said, “We’ll see what comes out next.”  When Hittner instructed the jurors to “take all the time
you may feel necessary” to reach a verdict, one of the jurors
grimaced. The jury left for the day yesterday after being told
to resume deliberations.  Jury selection in the case began Jan. 23 and the panel
heard five weeks of evidence.  The government presented testimony at from investors who
bought the allegedly fraudulent CDs as well as from the
executives who helped sell them.  The witnesses included government officials and former
Stanford Group Co. Chief Financial Officer James M. Davis, who
pleaded guilty to fraud-related charges in 2009 and testified
for five days against Stanford. Davis, whose relationship with
Stanford traces back to when they were Baylor University
roommates, told the jury he knew the boss was committing fraud
and didn’t stop it.  The defense presented former Stanford employees who said
they saw no evidence of fraud at the company. Some offered
testimony in support of the defense’s contention that Stanford
was an absentee visionary who left the details of running his
operation to Davis. Stanford didn’t testify during the trial.  The case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-00342, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  