-- Star Manager Gelb’s Live Broadcasts Make $11 Million for Met
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2012-03-05T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/star-manager-gelb-s-live-broadcasts-make-11-million-for-met.html
The  Metropolitan Opera ’s high-
definition live movie broadcasts started out with the modest aim
of breaking even -- or not losing much money at any rate.  Now, as  Anna Netrebko , Renee Fleming and Joyce DiDonato
boost the New York company’s repertoire for the new season, its
general manager is proclaiming bigger successes. Live HD
transmissions began soon after  Peter Gelb  took over in 2006.  The shows now make $11 million net profit, according to
Gelb, 58. Another 12 broadcasts are planned, including Netrebko
in “L’elisir d’amore,” Fleming in “Otello” and DiDonato in
the title role of Donizetti’s “Maria Stuarda.”  “We faced a challenge to find new audiences,” Gelb said
in an interview. “Labor costs and material costs were rising,
it was impossible to match those expenses with rising ticket
costs. Something had to be done.”  Radio broadcasts from the Met began in 1931, and the
company has the longest continuous transmission history of any
opera house.  “That was the reason I was able to take the risk,” Gelb
said. “If only a small percentage of Saturday radio listeners
would walk over to their local cinema, I knew we would have an
audience.”  Gelb was visiting  Europe  to spread the HD gospel to
interested opera houses. We spoke over a crackly telephone line
while he was in  Stockholm  waiting to hear his wife  Keri-Lynn
Wilson  conduct Tchaikovsky at the local opera house.  Russia, China  At first, just three countries outside the U.S. were taking
the broadcasts, he said. Now the shows go to 1,700 movie
theaters in 54 countries, with  Russia  and  China  among recent
additions.  “Those are clearly large potential audiences for us,
especially Russia,” Gelb said. “We’ve only just dipped our
toes in the water. At first we hoped just to break even. The
idea was simply to strengthen the bond between opera fans and
the Met.”  Now the transmissions, and subsequent TV broadcasts and DVD
sales, bring in about $11 million net to Met coffers.  “That’s the figure after we’ve covered all of the
incremental production costs, including cameras and satellite,
and payments to artists and unions,” Gelb said. The total
budget of the Met, a non-profit organization, is around $300
million annually.  New Footfall  “This is also a burgeoning new sector of the movie theater
industry too,” he said. “Our HD audiences are primarily opera
fans, so theaters are delighted that it’s bringing new footfall
for them, and bringing audiences they don’t usually see. It’s
somewhat ironic that opera is leading the way in the
‘alternative content’ sector.”  The company will sell 3 million tickets globally this year,
Gelb forecasts. One of those, sometime this season, will be the
10-millionth ticket since the project began. Advertising
agencies are also in discussion with the Met. Still, HD doesn’t
influence how operas are staged, Gelb said.  “Important as HD is, we don’t design our productions
around it,” he said. “It’s always a servant to the artistic
design of the stage production.”  Of course, there’s no such thing as a dead cert in opera.
The transmission can only as good as the production is on the
night. Has Gelb been bruised by the lukewarm reviews to the
current Ring Cycle?  “I personally think it’s been a huge success, and ticket
sales are good,” he said. “It’s certainly been the single most
challenging thing I’ve ever done at the Met.”  Fair enough. It’s the job of an opera chief to take the
rough with the smooth. The HD transmissions are smoothing things
nicely.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, is a
global sponsor for the HD project.  Information: For more information about current and future
broadcasts from the Met, see
 http://www.metoperafamily.org/metopera/liveinhd/LiveinHD.aspx   (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 