-- Stewart Said to Leave JPMorgan to Start Hedge Fund in London
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-03-05T11:17:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/stewart-said-to-leave-jpmorgan-to-start-hedge-fund-in-london.html
Mike Stewart , who  JPMorgan (JPM)  Chase &
Co. picked last year to oversee a unit of traders being moved
out of its investment bank, has left to start a hedge fund,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  Stewart, 38, and a team of at least four other JPMorgan
traders have founded Whard Stewart Asset Management Ltd., said
the people, who declined to be identified because the bank
hasn’t announced his departure. JPMorgan picked the London-based
Stewart in February 2011 to oversee a team of about 50 traders
it was transferring to an asset-management division to comply
with new U.S. rules that restrict banks from betting on markets.  Stewart joins a growing group of traders who have left
firms including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Citigroup Corp. and
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  as banks reduce risk in the face of greater
regulation after the financial crisis of 2008. The U.S. in 2010
approved the so-called Volcker rule, which was named after
former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , to curtail banks
from using their own capital to make wagers on stocks and bonds.  A JPMorgan Chase spokesman declined to comment. Stewart
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  JPMorgan, the largest U.S. bank by assets, planned to
comply with the Volcker rule by raising capital from outside
investors for Stewart and other traders in the asset-management
unit. The Volcker provision hasn’t yet taken effect.  Stewart had been co-head of New York-based JPMorgan’s
global  emerging markets  business. Whard Stewart will focus on
investing in emerging markets, said the people. JPMorgan
employees who have joined Stewart at his new hedge fund include
Alexis Hombrecher, Darrell Tonge, Robert Gilraine and Matthew Haydon, according to a Jan. 17 filing with the U.K.’s Companies
House. JPMorgan has no plans to invest in Whard Stewart, one of
the people said.  Dodd-Frank Act  The Financial Times reported Stewart’s plans earlier today.  Proprietary traders who remain at JPMorgan include Deepak Gulati, who leads stock investing, and Fahad Roumani, who heads
investments in credit.  Traders have been leaving banks to start or join  hedge
funds  since U.S. lawmakers approved the Dodd-Frank Act in 2010.
The law, which includes the Volcker provision, increased
oversight of  Wall Street  in response to the worst economic slump
since the Great Depression.  Sutesh Sharma, who led a proprietary-trading desk at New
York-based Citigroup, is starting a hedge fund in  London  called
Portman Square Capital LLP. Pierre-Henri Flamand stepped down in
2010 as head of a unit at New York-based Goldman Sachs that
traded equities to form Edoma Partners LLP.  Money managers started more than 1,100 hedge funds in 2011,
the second-highest annual total, according to Singapore-based
data provider Eurekahedge Pte.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in 東京 at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  