-- Stock Discount Halving to Troika on Putin Reform Outlook: Russia Overnight
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-03-06T03:20:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/stock-discount-halving-to-troika-on-putin-reform-outlook-russia-overnight.html
Russian equities’ discount to
emerging-market stocks will shrink by more than half in the next
year as  Vladimir Putin  works to improve corporate governance and
democracy as president, according to Troika Dialog.  Moscow’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  trades at 6.4  times  analysts’ earnings
estimates for member companies, a 51 percent discount to the
 MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF) , the most since November, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The  gap  will narrow to as little as
20 percent during 2012, said  Ovanes Oganisian , a strategist in
Moscow at Troika, Russia’s oldest investment bank, which was
acquired last month by OAO Sberbank, the nation’s largest
lender.  “The election results will undoubtedly positively affect
the foreign investor mood and risk appetite,” Oganisian said in
a phone interview from Moscow yesterday. “Putin and those
surrounding him will work on making the current political system
more stable and support for the democratic power transitions is
very important.”  Futures expiring in March on the  RTS (RTSI$)  Index fell 0.5 percent
in U.S. trading to 174,450 after Russian stocks rallied
yesterday following Putin’s March 4 victory. The  Bloomberg
Russia-U.S. 14 Index (RUS14BN)  of Russian companies traded in  New York 
dropped for the first time in three days as a lower economic
growth target for  China  boosted concern over a global slowdown.  Russian equities trade at the lowest valuations among 21
 emerging markets  tracked by Bloomberg, reflecting concern that
the country, where almost 50 percent of government revenue stems
from energy sales, is too reliant on oil and plagued by
corruption. Thousands of protesters rallied in central Moscow’s
Pushkin Square yesterday after Putin, currently prime minister,
claimed victory in the election that international observers
said was unfair. About 250 people were detained.  Protect Business  During Putin’s first stint as president from 2000 to 2008,
the Micex returned more than 900 percent. He won the most recent
election after vowing to reverse “repressive” state policies
and protect private business.  Coal miner OAO  Mechel (MTLR)   led  a 1.2 percent slump in the
Bloomberg Russia-US 14 measure yesterday as China cutting its
economic growth target sparked concern demand for commodities
will slide. The  Market Vectors ETF (RSX) , a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, declined 1.6 percent to $33.12.  Homebuilders, retailers, media companies and banks are
among stocks that will benefit from Putin’s return to the
presidency, Troika’s chief strategist  Chris Weafer  said in an e-
mailed note yesterday. Steel and mining companies may face
higher taxes, while resource companies are “less interesting”
as their taxes probably won’t be cut, Weafer said.  Rising Volatility  The  RTS Volatility Index (RTSVX) , which measures expected swings in
the index futures, climbed 1 percent to 33.71 points yesterday,
the highest level since Jan. 24.  OAO GMK  Norilsk Nickel , the world’s largest producer of
palladium, fell 1.9 percent to $20.05 in New York, as metals
prices slipped on the Chinese growth outlook. The Moscow-based
company’s American depositary receipts traded at a 0.9 percent
 discount  to its shares in Moscow, the most since Jan. 9. One ADR
is equal to one-tenth of an ordinary share. The  Standard &
Poor’s GSCI index  of 24 raw materials dropped 0.1 percent to
703.43, as aluminum, copper and nickel retreated. Chinese
Premier  Wen Jiabao  reduced China’s economic growth goal to 7.5
percent for 2012, from 8 percent over the past seven years.  United Co. Rusal (486) , the world’s largest aluminum producer,
slumped 6.6 percent to HK$6.07 in Hong Kong trading as of 11:10
a.m. local time. The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index fell 0.9 percent
today as concern that global economic growth may slow crimped
the earnings outlook for miners and machinery makers.  Mechel Declines  Mechel (MTL) , Russia’s largest producer of coal for steelmakers,
fell the most in three weeks in U.S. trading, slipping 5.6
percent to $10.56. Mechel received 13 percent of revenue from
Asia in 2010, up from 3.3 percent in 2007,  data  compiled by
Bloomberg show. The ADRs, which lost 71 percent last year, have
gained 24 percent in 2012.  The company’s Micex-traded shares lost 0.7 percent to
326.30 rubles, or the equivalent of $11.12. One ADR represents
one ordinary share. The ADRs traded at a 5 percent  discount  to
the Moscow stock, the most since Jan. 26.  Returning 16 percent this year, the Micex is beating gains
of 11 percent in China’s Shanghai Composite Index and 12 percent
for India’s BSE Sensex Index. Only  Brazil’s Bovespa (IBOV)  offers
higher returns among the biggest emerging nations in 2012, at 18
percent.  Central Depositary  Russia’s Micex-RTS Exchange -- which runs the Micex, RTS
and futures indexes -- is planning an initial public offering
for 2013 and plans to introduce key reforms to open up the
market to more foreign clients and simplify trade, Sergei
Sinkevich, the bourse’s vice president, said in New York
yesterday.  The exchange will make the switch to so-called T+3 trading,
where traders are allowed as many as three days to complete
transactions, from mid-2012, Sinkevich said. The exchange
expects to introduce a central securities depositary in the
middle of the year, allowing more foreign investors,
particularly U.S. pension funds and mutual funds, to trade, he
said.  The 30-stock Micex rallied 1.1 percent to 1,625.74
yesterday, while the  RTS (RTSI$)  added 1.5 percent to 1,752.17, the
highest level since Aug. 5.  Lukoil Downgrade  OAO Lukoil (LUKOY) , Russia’s biggest non-state oil producer, fell
for the first time in four days in U.S. trading after IFC
Metropol cut shares of Russia’s second-largest oil producer to
“hold” from “buy,” after it reported a decline in fourth-
quarter profit. Lukoil ADRs dropped 0.6 percent to $65.01 in New
York, the biggest decline since Feb. 22.  A decrease in  oil prices  is the biggest risk to the Russian
economy following the presidential election, according to Fitch
Ratings Ltd.  Growth in  government spending  has widened Russia’s non-oil
and gas fiscal deficit to 10 percent of gross domestic product
and increased the budget break-even oil price to about $117 a
barrel for 2012, according to an e-mailed note from the ratings
company yesterday. Fitch cut its outlook on Russia’s BBB credit
rating to “stable” from “positive” in January.  Urals crude, Russia’s chief export blend, was little
changed at $122.89 yesterday, the lowest level since Feb. 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in New York at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  