-- Student Loan Delinquency Reached $85 Billion in Third Quarter
-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 2012-03-05T17:13:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/student-loan-delinquency-reached-85-billion-in-third-quarter.html
About $85 billion in U.S. student
loan debt, or 10 percent of the outstanding balance, was
delinquent in the third quarter of 2011.  Of the 37 million borrowers who have student-loan balances,
14 percent, or about 5.4 million people, have at least one past
due student-loan account, according to a  report  posted today on
the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York ’s website.  As many as 47 percent of student-loan borrowers “appear to
be in deferral or forbearance,” and didn’t have to make
payments as of the third quarter, according to the report. The
district bank reported last week that debt from educational
loans in the fourth quarter was $867 billion, higher than
credit-card debt, according to a survey of  consumer credit .
Special attention should be paid to these student-loan
delinquencies compared with other  household debt , the authors
wrote.  “Some special accounting used for  student loans , not
applicable to other types of consumer debt, makes it likely that
the delinquency rates for student loans are understated,” wrote
the economists, Meta Brown, Andrew Haughwout, Donghoon Lee,
Maricar Mabutas and Wilbert van der Klaauw.  Students with federally backed loans are allowed a six-
month grace period after they graduate and aren’t required to
begin paying their loans in that time. Borrowers with
unsubsidized federal loans can also defer payments when in
school, and interest accrues.  Borrowers who are temporarily exempt from making payments
were excluded from the report. As a group, these people owed as
much as or more in the third quarter than in the second,
according to the report.  Student-loan debt isn’t just a concern for the young, the
authors wrote.  ‘Not Fully Captured’  “The student loan delinquency picture is not fully
captured in the broad statistics since a significant proportion
of borrowers and balances are not yet in the repayment cycle,”
they wrote.  The average outstanding student-loan balance per person is
$23,300, according to the report. A third of the borrowers are
under the age of 30.  The $867 billion comprises both federally backed loans and
private borrowing. While the majority of loans are taken by
students, parents also incur debt in their own names to pay for
children’s college costs.  The  New York  Fed’s data is from a random sample of people
with a social security number, typically 19 years or older,
provided by the  Equifax Inc. (EFX)  credit bureau.  In August, the New York Fed reported outstanding student
loan debt at $550 billion and later revised the number to $845
billion. The bank is adjusting historical figures because of
technical issues in how it used to obtain student-loan data,
 according to a November report .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janet Lorin in New York   jlorin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at   lwolfson@bloomberg.net  