-- Sweden to Raise Borrowing as Recession Looms
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2012-03-06T09:09:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/sweden-to-raise-borrowing-as-recession-looms-unemployment-grows.html
Sweden raised its estimate for the
government’s borrowing need in 2012 as the largest Nordic
economy struggles to avert a recession amid growing
unemployment.  The National Debt Office increased its estimate for sales
of nominal bonds this year to 50 billion kronor ($7.5 billion)
from the 35 billion kronor predicted in October, according to a
statement published today in  Stockholm . The agency also said it
expects to issue 53 billion kronor in nominal bonds in 2013, 20
billion kronor more than estimated in October.  “Weak domestic demand and weak demand in our key export
markets are reducing growth prospects this year and unemployment
is rising,” the agency said. “This affects central government
finances through reduced tax revenues and increased labor market
expenditure.”  The largest Nordic economy shrank 1.1 percent in the fourth
quarter, its first contraction since 2009, as the European debt
crisis weighed on exports and companies cut jobs.  Unemployment (SWUERATE) 
will average 7.7 percent this year, up from 7.5 percent last
year, the central bank predicted last month as it cut  interest
rates  for a second consecutive meeting.  The agency said it expects the government to post a deficit
of 11 billion kronor this year and a surplus of 3 billion kronor
next year. Total central government borrowing will be 33 billion
kronor higher this year and 27 billion higher next year than
previously forecast, the debt office said.  Debt Issuance  Funding in Treasury bills will “be greater” and borrowing
in foreign currency will “increase somewhat, due to our funding
a larger part of on-lending to the Riksbank on the  bond
market ,” the debt office said.  The agency in October predicted central government finances
would show a 25 billion kronor surplus this year and 29 billion
kronor next year. The country reported a 68 billion-krona
surplus last year, reducing central government debt to 32
percent of gross domestic product, even as other nations in
 Europe  struggled with rising debt levels.  Sweden had reduced its debt after the economy expanded at
the fastest pace in 40 years in 2010, attracting demand for its
AAA rated bonds as investors fled the euro area.  Sweden’s bonds maturing in more than 10 years were last
year the best performing bonds among major indexes tracked by
Bloomberg, returning 31 percent in local currency, according to
Bloomberg/EFFA sovereign indexes.  U.S. debt  maturing in 10 years
or more returned 29 percent, the index showed.  This year, Swedish bonds with a maturity of 10 years or
more have slid 2.8 percent. Sweden’s 10-year note yields three
basis points more than its benchmark German counterpart, after
last year yielding as much as 64 basis points less. The spread
widened one basis point today.  The agency predicted economic growth of “just under” 1
percent this year and “just under” 3 percent next year. Growth
was 3.9 percent in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman in Stockholm at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  