-- Syracuse Says NCAA Was Informed About Men’s Basketball Players’ Drug Tests
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-03-06T05:00:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/syracuse-didn-t-suspend-basketball-players-for-drugs-yahoo-reports.html
Syracuse University  self-reported
possible violations involving positive drug tests by former
men’s basketball players to the  National Collegiate Athletic
Association .  At least 10 players since 2001 were allowed to practice or
play when they should have been suspended after failing tests
for banned recreational drugs,  Yahoo Sports reported .  The report, based on four people close to the basketball
program who requested anonymity, said some of the players may
not have known of their ineligibility.  Kevin Quinn, the university’s senior vice president for
public affairs, said yesterday that Syracuse already had
informed the NCAA about the drug testing and that “the inquiry
does not involve any current SU student-athletes.”  “In accordance with NCAA regulations, it is the
university’s practice to self-report possible violations to the
NCAA,” Quinn said in an e-mailed statement. “We self-reported
issues with drug testing to the NCAA, and there is currently an
ongoing inquiry.”  Syracuse won the 2003 NCAA championship. The current team
is 30-1 and ranked No. 2 in the nation, and is the top seed in
the Big East conference tournament that begins today at  New
York ’s Madison Square Garden.  In November, assistant coach  Bernie Fine  was fired amid a
police investigation into allegations of child sexual assaults.
Fine was in his 36th season at Syracuse.  Yahoo said Syracuse violated its drug policy in at least
two areas -- failing to properly count positive tests and
playing ineligible players. A former Syracuse basketball player,
whose name was not revealed, told Yahoo he was questioned by the
NCAA about the school’s drug-testing policy.  The NCAA released a statement last night saying Syracuse
self-reported the violations “several months ago” and that its
investigation is ongoing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  