-- Syria Army Hits Rebels in South as Red Cross Aids Refugees
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2012-03-05T16:24:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/syria-army-hits-rebels-in-south-as-red-cross-aids-refugees.html
Syrian troops clashed with army
defectors in the southern Daraa region as the Red Cross handed
out aid to refugees from Baba Amr in the center of the country,
seized by the army last week.  At least two people died today in Daraa, Rami Abdel Rahman,
head of the U.K.-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, said
by telephone from  London . Tanks and military vehicles massed
outside Yabroud, a Damascus suburb, he said. An explosion struck
an oil pipeline, with opposition groups and the government
blaming each other for the blast.  Syria’s army gained control of the Baba Amr district of
Homs after a monthlong artillery siege, prompting renewed
diplomacy to end a conflict that has claimed more than 7,500
lives, according to the  United Nations . Two UN envoys are due to
travel to Damascus this week to help end the violence. President
Bashar al-Assad’s security forces are clearing the neighborhood
of “terrorist elements,” according to the state-run Syrian
Arab News Agency.  Kofi Annan , the joint special envoy of the UN and the Arab
League, will visit  Syria  March 10, after a stopover in Cairo to
meet with the league’s secretary-general, the organizations said
in an e-mailed statement from Geneva today.  “The purpose of his first visit is to seek an urgent end
to all violence and human-rights violations, and to initiate the
effort to promote a peaceful solution to the Syrian crisis,”
according to the statement.  ‘Unhindered Access’  Annan will follow the UN’s emergency relief coordinator
 Valerie Amos , whose March 7-9 trip comes about a week after
Assad’s government denied her earlier travel requests.  “My aim is to urge all parties to allow unhindered access
for humanitarian relief workers so that they can evacuate the
wounded and deliver essential supplies,” Amos said in an e-
mailed statement.  The International Committee of the  Red Cross  established a
distribution center in Abel, about 3 kilometers (2 miles) away,
and has given food and medical help to hundreds of people who
fled Baba Amr, the organization’s Damascus representative, Saleh
Dabbakeh, said today by telephone.  “Now it’s calmer in Homs so, hopefully we’ll be able to do
more,” Dabbakeh said. Humanitarian assistance didn’t stop as
the violence escalated, he said. The Syrian government hasn’t
allowed the Red Cross into Baba Amr, “citing security
reasons,” he said.  Pipeline Attacks  The blast that hit the pipeline in al-Quriye in the eastern
province of Deir Ezzor was the latest in at least seven attacks
on pipelines and refineries this year. The opposition  Shaam News 
Facebook page blamed it on government forces, while SANA said it
was carried out by “terrorist groups.”  Syrian (OLPDSYRI)  crude production dropped to about 260,000 barrels a
day, Oil Minister Sufian Alao said on Dec. 24.  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc (RDSA) , Total SA and other European companies have ceased
operations in the country because of sanctions, Alao said.  Attacks in Homs, Hama, Damascus, Daraa and Aleppo killed 62
civilians yesterday, the Local Coordination Committees of Syria
 said  on its website. Assad’s forces killed at least four people
today and “entirely cut off” communications in the Damascus
suburb of Yabroud, the group  said  today.  Chinese Mission  Russia and  China , which both vetoed a UN Security Council
resolution on Feb. 4 calling on Assad to step down, are
increasing pressure on Syria’s government to end the crackdown.  Sergei Lavrov , the Russian foreign minister who urged Assad
today to stop the bloodshed, will meet with  Arab League 
counterparts in Cairo on March 10, Interfax reported.  China, which called for an immediate cease-fire yesterday,
will send its former ambassador to Syria, Li Huaqing, to
Damascus for a two-day visit starting tomorrow, the  Associated
Press  reported, citing the Foreign Ministry.  The U.S. and its European and Arab allies, which backed the
UN resolution, are preparing to hold a second meeting of the
group they call “Friends of Syria.” It may take place in
 Turkey  in late March, Istanbul-based Sabah newspaper reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden in Dubai at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 