-- Services Growth Slows Amid Challenging Environment, Purchasers Poll Shows
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-03-05T09:57:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/u-k-services-growth-slows-as-companies-flag-challenging-business-climate.html
A U.K.  gauge of services  fell more
than economists forecast last month as sales growth slowed and
some companies noted a “challenging” environment.  A gauge of services activity based on a survey of
 purchasing managers  fell to 53.8 from 56 in January, Markit
Economics and the  Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply 
said in a report today in London. The median forecast of 29
economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a reading of 55
last month. A measure above 50 indicates expansion.  Reports by Markit last week showed manufacturing expanded
for a second month in February while construction output rose at
the fastest pace in 11 months. It said today that services
industries continue to show “solid” growth and its three
indexes indicate  Britain’s economy  will expand in the current
quarter after a contraction in the last three months of 2011.  “Despite some loss of momentum in February, the services
sector continued to grow at a robust pace, adding to signs that
a double-dip recession will be avoided,” said  Chris Williamson ,
chief economist at Markit. Recent data “suggest the economy
will expand modestly in the first quarter.”  While sales growth was the weakest since November last
month, employment rose for a third month and confidence among
executives increased to the highest level in a year, according
to the report.  ‘Disappointing’  Still, Williamson said job growth remains “disappointing”
and firms are having to offer discounts to win new business,
“providing reminders of how tough the business environment
remains for many companies.”  London-based  ITV Plc (ITV) , the U.K.’s biggest commercial
broadcaster, said on Feb. 29 that while 2011 sales and profit
rose after it expanded services that rely less on advertising,
it is “cautious about the economic outlook.”  In  Europe  today, a separate report showed services and
manufacturing output shrank more than estimated in February as
the euro-area economy struggled to rebound from a contraction in
the fourth quarter. A  composite index  based on a survey of
purchasing managers in both industries dropped to 49.3 from 50.4
in January, Markit said. That’s below an initial figure of 49.7
published on Feb. 22.  Bank of England  policy makers will probably maintain their
asset-purchase target at 325 billion pounds ($514 billion) this
week after last month’s 50 billion-pound increase, according to
all 45 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The central bank
will announce the decision at noon on March 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  