-- U.K., Germany Need to Change Swiss Tax Deals, EU’s Semeta Says
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-03-05T16:33:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/u-k-germany-need-to-change-swiss-tax-deals-eu-s-semeta-says.html
The U.K. and  Germany  must modify
their tax arrangements with Switzerland so they don’t interfere
with broader savings-income tax accords, said European Union Tax
Commissioner Algirdas Semeta.  “I am confident that a satisfactory outcome will be
found,” Semeta said today in a letter to Danish Economy
Minister  Margrethe Vestager , whose country holds the EU’s six-
month rotating presidency. The European Commission, the EU’s
regulatory arm, has been involved in “very constructive” talks
with Germany and the U.K. to resolve the issue, he said.  When countries make bilateral tax agreements with other
nations, EU policy calls for them to leave out any areas covered
by a common European framework, Semeta said. In the case of
savings income, the bloc has existing information-exchange rules
and is working on additional measures related to interest
payments, ownership stakes and the 27-nation EU’s relationship
with  Switzerland , he said.  Semeta also called for “a process of active peer
pressure” on tax and spending policies as countries work to
balance their budgets.  “Confronted with fiscal imbalances, EU member states are
faced with very difficult decisions,” he said today at the
Brussels Tax Forum. Budget deficits are “huge and require
action on the revenue side,” particularly within the 17-nation
euro region, he said.  Semeta said the financial crisis has shown the need for
stronger cooperation on tax policies. He hailed last week’s
recommendations by EU leaders to continue work on a range of tax
proposals, from a financial-transaction levy to coordinated
energy and corporate taxation.  “A coordinated approach to all areas of fiscal policy is
vital for a strong euro and our collective growth,” Semeta
said. “It is now time to reassess the role of tax-policy
coordination in the context of the monetary union.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  