-- U.S. February ISM Non-Manufacturing Report on Business (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-03-05T15:24:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/u-s-february-ism-non-manufacturing-report-on-business-text-.html
Following is the text of U.S.
non-manufacturing conditions from the Institute for
Supply Management.  Economic activity in the non-manufacturing sector grew in
February for the 26th consecutive month, say the nation’s
purchasing and supply executives in the latest Non-Manufacturing
ISM Report On Business.  The report was issued today by  Anthony Nieves , C.P.M.,
CFPM, chair of the Institute for Supply Management™ Non-
Manufacturing Business Survey Committee.
“The NMI registered 57.3 percent in February, 0.5 percentage
point higher than the 56.8 percent registered in January, and
indicating continued growth at a faster rate in the non-
manufacturing sector. The Non-Manufacturing Business Activity
Index registered 62.6 percent, which is 3.1 percentage points
higher than the 59.5 percent reported in January, reflecting
growth for the 31st consecutive month. The New Orders Index
increased by 1.8 percentage points to 61.2 percent, and the
Employment Index decreased by 1.7 percentage points to 55.7
percent, indicating continued growth in employment, but at a
slower rate.  The Prices Index increased 4.9 percentage points to 68.4
percent, indicating prices increased at a faster rate in
February when compared to January.
According to the NMI, 14 non-manufacturing industries reported
growth in February. The majority of comments from the
respondents reflect a growing level of optimism about business
conditions and the overall economy. There is a concern about
inflation, rising fuel prices and petroleum-based product
costs.”  INDUSTRY PERFORMANCE  The 14 non-manufacturing industries reporting growth in
February -- listed in order -- are: Real Estate, Rental &
Leasing; Educational Services; Wholesale Trade; Other Services;
Transportation & Warehousing; Finance & Insurance; Construction;
Arts, Entertainment & Recreation; Public Administration;
Accommodation & Food Services; Utilities; Professional,
Scientific & Technical Services; Mining; and Information.
The three industries reporting contraction in February are:
Management of Companies & Support Services; Retail Trade; and
Health Care & Social Assistance.  WHAT RESPONDENTS ARE SAYING  * “Year-over-year and month-over-month growth continues.
Market conditions improved dramatically.” (Information)
  * “Although customer traffic continues to decline,
discretionary spending per capita is increasing.
There is a bit more confidence regarding current economic
conditions, spurring on slightly more aggressive marketing to
capture new customers and encourage repeat visits.” (Arts,
Entertainment & Recreation)
  * “Business is generally flat, but showing signs of
improvement.” (Health Care & Social Assistance)
  * “Bracing for impact of fuel price increases on delivered
commodity prices.” (Educational Services)
  * “Optimism is all around, but sales remain sluggish. Activity
shows interest, but market [is] very price sensitive.”
(Professional, Scientific & Technical Services)
  * “Signs are building that things are starting to settle and
business is stabilizing. Although orders aren’t increasing
rapidly, they are steady and consistent instead of the radical
swings of the past two years. We hope that this trend will
continue.” (Retail Trade)
  * “Demand [is] gradually increasing for most business
sectors.” (Wholesale Trade)  COMMODITIES REPORTED UP / DOWN IN PRICE, and IN SHORT SUPPLY  Commodities Up in Price  Airfares (2); Asphalt; Copper Products; Crab (2); Diesel;
#1 Diesel Fuel (3); #2 Diesel Fuel (4); Equipment Repair Parts;
Fuel (2); Furniture; Gasoline (2); Gloves; #2 Heating Fuel; Lab
Chemicals; Labor; Lumber; Petroleum Based Products (2); Plastic
Film; Plastic Products; Poly Film; Steel Products; Tires--
Large; and Wire Mesh.  Commodities Down in Price  Cotton Products;  Natural Gas ; Paper; and Paper Tissues.  Commodities in Short Supply  Crab (2) is the only commodity reported in short supply.  Note: The number of consecutive months the commodity is listed
is indicated after each item.  FEBRUARY 2012 NON-MANUFACTURING INDEX SUMMARIES  NMI  In February, the NMI registered 57.3 percent, indicating
continued growth in the non-manufacturing sector for the 26th
consecutive month. A reading above 50 percent indicates the non-
manufacturing sector economy is generally expanding; below 50
percent indicates the non-manufacturing sector is generally
contracting.  Business Activity  ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Business Activity Index in February
registered 62.6 percent, 3.1 percentage points higher than the
59.5 percent registered in January. Fifteen industries reported
increased business activity, and two industries reported
decreased activity for the month of February. Comments from
respondents include: “New year project initiatives leading to
more activity” and “Improved economic environment.”  The industries reporting growth of business activity in February
-- listed in order -- are: Real Estate, Rental & Leasing;
Construction; Finance & Insurance; Other Services;
Transportation & Warehousing; Arts, Entertainment & Recreation;
Educational Services; Public Administration; Wholesale Trade;
Accommodation & Food Services; Utilities; Information;
Professional, Scientific & Technical Services; Mining; and
Health Care & Social Assistance.
The industries reporting decreased business activity in February
are: Management of Companies & Support Services; and Retail
Trade.  New Orders  ISM’s Non-Manufacturing New Orders Index grew in February for
the 31st consecutive month. The index registered 61.2 percent,
an increase of 1.8 percentage points from the 59.4 percent
reported in January. Comments from respondents include:
“Expansion of business” and “Increased orders to meet new
forecast by sales for spring.”  The 12 industries reporting growth of new orders in
February -- listed in order -- are: Real Estate, Rental &
Leasing; Construction; Other Services; Finance & Insurance;
Educational Services; Arts, Entertainment & Recreation; Public
Administration; Wholesale Trade; Accommodation & Food Services;
Transportation & Warehousing; Professional, Scientific &
Technical Services; and Utilities.
The four industries reporting contraction of new orders in
February are: Management of Companies & Support Services; Retail
Trade; Mining; and Health Care & Social Assistance.  Employment  Employment activity in the non-manufacturing sector grew in
February at a slower rate, as ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Employment
Index registered 55.7 percent. This reflects a decrease of 1.7
percentage points when compared to the 57.4 percent registered
in January. Nine industries reported increased employment, six
industries reported decreased employment, and three industries
reported unchanged employment compared to January. Comments from
respondents include: “While higher, employment growth is
leveling off” and “Finally replacing staff after months of
holding off.”  The industries reporting an increase in employment in
February -- listed in order -- are: Mining; Other Services;
Wholesale Trade; Educational Services; Professional, Scientific
& Technical Services; Utilities; Transportation & Warehousing;
Information; and Finance & Insurance. The industries reporting a
reduction in employment in February -- listed in order -- are:
Retail Trade;
Public Administration; Health Care & Social Assistance;
Accommodation & Food Services; Arts, Entertainment & Recreation;
and Construction.  Supplier Deliveries  The Supplier Deliveries Index registered 49.5 percent in
February, 1.5 percentage points lower than the 51 percent
registered in January, indicating that supplier deliveries were
faster in February. A reading above 50 percent indicates slower
deliveries, and below 50 percent indicates faster deliveries.  The five industries reporting slower deliveries in February
are: Mining; Educational Services; Public Administration;
Wholesale Trade; and Transportation & Warehousing. The four
industries reporting faster supplier deliveries in February are:
Management of Companies & Support Services; Construction; Other
Services; and Finance & Insurance. Nine industries reported no
change in supplier deliveries in February compared to January.  Inventories  ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Inventories Index increased in February.
The index registered 53.5 percent, which is 6.5 percentage
points higher than the 47 percent reading that was reported in
January. Of the total respondents in February, 26 percent
indicated they do not have inventories or do not measure
them. Comments from respondents include: “Growth of new
brands/suppliers” and “Higher sales.”  The 10 industries reporting an increase in inventories in
February -- listed in order -- are: Real Estate, Rental &
Leasing; Management of Companies & Support Services; Utilities;
Mining; Professional, Scientific & Technical Services;
Construction; Wholesale Trade; Transportation & Warehousing;
Accommodation &
Food Services; and Public Administration. The two industries
reporting decreases in inventories in February are: Health Care
& Social Assistance; and Information.  Prices  Prices paid by non-manufacturing organizations for purchased
materials and services increased at a faster rate in February.
ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Prices Index for February registered
68.4 percent, 4.9 percentage points higher than the 63.5 percent
reported in January. In February, the percentage of respondents
reporting higher prices is 41 percent, the percentage indicating
no change in prices paid is 55 percent, and 4 percent of the
respondents reported lower prices.  Fourteen non-manufacturing industries reported an increase
in prices paid, in the following order: Construction; Mining;
Wholesale Trade; Arts, Entertainment & Recreation; Retail Trade;
Educational Services; Accommodation & Food Services; Real
Estate, Rental & Leasing; Professional, Scientific & Technical
Services; Utilities; Public Administration; Finance & Insurance;
Health Care & Social Assistance; and Transportation &
Warehousing. The two industries reporting a decrease in prices
paid are: Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting; and
Information.  Backlog of Orders  ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Backlog of Orders Index grew in February
after
contracting for four consecutive months. The index registered 53
percent, 3.5 percentage points higher than the 49.5 percent
reported in January. Of the total respondents in February, 34
percent indicated they do not measure backlog of orders.  The nine industries reporting an increase in order backlogs
in February -- listed in order -- are: Construction; Mining;
Real Estate, Rental & Leasing; Information; Educational
Services; Other Services; Finance & Insurance; Wholesale Trade;
and Transportation & Warehousing. The six industries reporting
lower backlog of orders in February -- listed in order -- are:
Arts,
Entertainment & Recreation; Retail Trade; Management of
Companies & Support Services; Utilities; Health Care & Social
Assistance; and Professional, Scientific & Technical Services.  New Export Orders  Orders and requests for services and other non-manufacturing
activities to be provided outside of the  United States  by
domestically based personnel grew in February for the seventh
consecutive month. The New Export Orders Index for February
registered 54.5 percent, which is 2 percentage points lower than
the 56.5 percent reported in January. Of the total respondents
in February, 66 percent indicated they either do not perform, or
do not separately measure, orders for work outside of the United
States.  The six industries reporting an increase in new export
orders in February -- listed in order -- are: Other Services;
Mining; Information; Educational Services; Accommodation & Food
Services; and Wholesale Trade. The five industries reporting a
decrease in export orders in February are: Arts, Entertainment &
Recreation; Management of Companies & Support Services; Retail
Trade; Professional, Scientific & Technical Services; and
Construction.  Imports  The ISM Non-Manufacturing Imports Index grew in February for the
third consecutive month. The index registered 52 percent, which
is 3 percentage points lower than the 55 percent reported in
January. Fifty-eight percent of respondents reported that they
do not use, or do not track, the use of imported materials.  The six industries reporting an increase in the use of
imports in February -- listed in order -- are: Other Services;
Information; Professional, Scientific & Technical Services;
Mining; Accommodation & Food Services; and Wholesale Trade. The
four industries reporting a decrease in imports for the month of
February are: Arts, Entertainment & Recreation; Management of
Companies & Support Services; Finance & Insurance; and Retail
Trade. Seven industries reported no change in imports for the
month of February compared to January.  Inventory Sentiment  The ISM Non-Manufacturing Inventory Sentiment Index in February
registered 61.5 percent, which is 3 percentage points higher
than the 58.5 percent reported in January. This indicates that
respondents believe their inventories are still too high at this
time. In February, 29 percent of respondents said their
inventories were too high, 6 percent said their inventories were
too low, and 65 percent said their inventories were about right.  The 11 industries reporting a feeling that their
inventories are too high in February -- listed in order -- are:
Management of Companies & Support Services; Other Services;
Wholesale Trade; Transportation & Warehousing; Finance &
Insurance; Arts, Entertainment & Recreation; Professional,
Scientific & Technical Services; Public Administration;
Utilities; Health Care & Social
Assistance; and Construction. The two industries reporting that
their inventories are too low in February are: Accommodation &
Food Services; and Retail Trade.  About this Report  The data presented herein is obtained from a survey of non-
manufacturing supply managers based on information they have
collected within their respective organizations. ISM makes no
representation, other than that stated within this release,
regarding the individual company data collection procedures. Use
of the data is in the public domain and should be compared to
all other economic data sources when used in decision-making.  Data and Method of Presentation  The Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business is based on data
compiled from purchasing and supply executives nationwide.
Membership of the Non-Manufacturing Business Survey Committee is
diversified by NAICS, based on each industry’s contribution to
gross domestic product (GDP). The Non-Manufacturing Business
Survey Committee responses are divided into the following NAICS
code categories: Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting;
Mining; Utilities; Construction; Wholesale Trade; Retail Trade;
Transportation & Warehousing; Information; Finance & Insurance;
Real Estate, Rental & Leasing; Professional, Scientific &
Technical Services; Management of Companies & Support Services;
Educational Services; Health Care & Social Assistance; Arts,
Entertainment & Recreation; Accommodation & Food Services;
Public Administration; and Other Services (services such as
Equipment & Machinery Repairing; Promoting or Administering
Religious Activities; Grant making; Advocacy; and Providing Dry-
Cleaning & Laundry Services, Personal Care Services, Death Care
Services, Pet Care Services, Photofinishing Services, Temporary
Parking Services, and Dating Services).  Survey responses reflect the change, if any, in the current
month compared to the previous month. For each of the indicators
measured (Business Activity, New Orders, Backlog of Orders, New
Export Orders,  Inventory Change , Inventory Sentiment, Imports,
Prices, Employment and Supplier Deliveries), this report shows
the percentage reporting each response, and the diffusion index.
Responses represent raw data and are never changed. Data is
seasonally adjusted for Business Activity, New Orders, Prices
and Employment. All seasonal adjustment factors are supplied by
the U.S. Department of Commerce and are subject annually to
relatively minor changes when conditions warrant them. The
remaining indexes have not indicated significant seasonality.  The NMI (Non-Manufacturing Index) is a composite index
based on the diffusion indexes for four of the indicators with
equal weights: Business Activity (seasonally adjusted), New
Orders (seasonally adjusted), Employment(seasonally adjusted)
and Supplier Deliveries. Diffusion indexes have the properties
of leading indicators and are convenient summary measures
showing the prevailing direction of change and the scope of
change. An index reading above 50 percent indicates that the
non-manufacturing economy in that index is generally expanding;
below 50 percent indicates that it is generally declining.
Supplier Deliveries is an exception. A Supplier Deliveries Index
above 50 percent indicates slower deliveries and below 50
percent indicates
faster deliveries.  The Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business^® surveys are
sent out to Non-Manufacturing Business Survey Committee
respondents the first part of each month. Respondents are asked
to ONLY report on information for the current month. ISM
receives survey responses throughout most of any given month,
with the majority of respondents generally waiting until late in
the month to submit responses in order to give the most accurate
picture of current business activity. ISM then compiles the
reports for release on the third business day of the following
month.  The industries reporting growth, as indicated in the Non-
Manufacturing ISM Report On Business monthly reports, are listed
in the order of most growth to least growth. For the industries
reporting contraction or decreases, those are listed in the
order of the highest level of contraction/decrease to the
least level of contraction/decrease.  The Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business is published
monthly by the  Institute for Supply Management , the largest
supply management research and education organization in the
United States. The Institute for Supply Management, established
in 1915, is the largest supply management organization in the
world as well as one of the most respected. ISM’s mission
is to lead the supply management profession through its
standards of excellence, research, promotional activities and
education.  The full text version of the Non-Manufacturing ISM Report
On Business is posted on ISM’s Web site at www.ism.ws on the
third business day of every month after 10:10 a.m. (ET).  The next Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business featuring
the March 2012 data will be released at 10:00 a.m. (ET) on
Wednesday, April 4, 2012.  SOURCE: Institute for Supply Management    http://www.ism.ws  