-- U.S. Files Formal Request With New Zealand to Extradite Megaupload Founder
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-03-05T01:58:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/u-s-files-formal-request-to-new-zealand-to-extradite-megaupload-s-dotcom.html
The U.S. government has formally
asked  New Zealand  to extradite Megaupload.com founder Kim Dotcom, who was indicted in  Virginia  on charges of involvement
in the country’s biggest copyright infringement conspiracy.  The extradition papers for Dotcom; Finn Batato, the chief
marketing officer at Megaupload; Mathias Ortmann, co-founder and
director of the file-sharing website; and Bram van der Kolk, who
oversaw programming at the website, were received at the North
Shore District Court near Auckland on March 2, said Magila
Annandale, a New Zealand Ministry of Justice spokeswoman.  Dotcom ran a “Mega Conspiracy,” U.S. prosecutors said in
a Feb. 17 revised indictment filed in a court in Alexandria,
Virginia, accusing him of generating more than $175 million in
criminal proceeds from the exchange of pirated film, music, book
and software files. He faces as long as 20 years in prison for
each of the racketeering and money-laundering charges in the
indictment.  The U.S. extradition papers weren’t immediately available
from the North Shore District Court. A judge has to approve
requests from people not involved in the case for access to
files after receiving a written application and obtaining views
of all parties in the matter, Annandale said in an e-mail today.  Dotcom, 38, was also charged in the U.S. with five counts
of criminal copyright infringement and five counts of  wire
fraud . The defendant, who legally changed his family name from
Schmitz, has denied any criminal misconduct.  He was released from jail on Feb. 22 over objections from
the U.S., after Judge N.R. Dawson ruled he wasn’t a flight risk.
Dotcom is restricted to his rented $18 million mansion and
subject to electronic monitoring, according to the bail
conditions.  An extradition hearing has been scheduled for Aug. 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at   dwong19@bloomberg.net . 