-- U.S. Challenges Judge Ruling on Cigarette Graphic Warnings
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-03-05T23:19:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/u-s-challenges-judge-ruling-on-cigarette-graphic-warning-labels.html
The U.S. government appealed a
federal judge’s ruling throwing out requirements for graphic
warning labels regarding the health risks of cigarettes.  The  Food and Drug Administration  filed a notice of appeal
today in U.S. District Court in  Washington  seeking to overturn
Judge Richard Leon’s Feb. 29 decision that the government’s rule
violates the  tobacco companies ’ rights to free speech.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Washington is scheduled to
hear arguments next month on the government’s challenge to a
ruling Leon issued in November that canceled a Sept. 22 deadline
for tobacco companies to begin displaying images such as
diseased lungs and a cadaver with chest staples on an autopsy
table on the top half of the front and back of all cigarette
packages.  It is unclear whether the three-judge panel will consider
today’s appeal on April 10.  Lorillard Inc. (LO) ,  Reynolds American Inc. (RAI) ’s R.J. Reynolds
unit, Commonwealth Brands Inc., Liggett Group LLC and Santa Fe
Natural Tobacco Co. sued the FDA in August, claiming its
mandates for cigarette packages, cartons and advertising violate
the First Amendment. The companies said in court papers that it
would cost them a total of about $20 million to meet the 2012
deadline.  The graphics were supposed to cover the top half of the
front and back of cigarette packages and 20 percent of print
advertisements. The FDA estimated the visual warnings would help
lower the smoking rate by about 0.212 percentage points, Leon
wrote in his opinion.  FDA Mandates  During a Feb. 1 hearing, Mark Stern, a Justice Department
lawyer, compared the FDA mandates to warnings on packages of
charcoal telling people to not use it indoors, noting that 28
people a year die from carbon monoxide poisoning for using
charcoal inside their homes.  With cigarettes, there are 440,000 deaths, Stern said.  “That’s a pretty big interest,” he added. “It’s no
secret that the government wants people to stop smoking.”  Leon said during the hearing there’s nothing in the record
to show that Congress gave “clear, thoughtful analysis” to the
First Amendment implications of the law.  “Congress did what it did out of some innate sense of ‘we
can do this,’” he said.  The case is R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. v. U.S. Food and Drug
Administration, 11-cv-1482, U.S. District Court,  District of
Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 