-- U.S. Pension Assets Gained 16.4% in 2011, Wilshire Report Says
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-03-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/u-s-pension-assets-gained-16-4-in-2011-wilshire-associates-report-says.html
U.S. public pension funds rose 16
percent in the year ended June 30, narrowing the gap between
their assets and liabilities to the lowest level since 2008,
according to a report by  Wilshire Associates Inc.   The 126 state pension plans had an average of 77 percent of
the assets needed to pay their long-term obligations to
retirees, up from 69 percent a year earlier, according to the
study released today.  Rising retiree costs are straining the budgets of states
and cities across the U.S. coping with the lingering effects of
the longest recession since the 1930s. The gap is the narrowest
since the economic contraction was amplified by the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008.  “It’s been a pretty unique and pretty wild ride for the
the last decade,” Steven J. Foresti, a managing director at
Wilshire, said by telephone from  Santa Monica ,  California . “The
funding levels are still at a pretty low point compared to
historical levels.”  U.S. pension funds had a median of 75 percent of the assets
needed to pay long-term obligations in 2010, according to an
annual study by Bloomberg Rankings. That number was down from 76
percent a year earlier, the study found.  Even with the growth in assets last year, 90 percent of
U.S. pensions don’t have enough to cover all of their expected
liabilities, the Wilshire study shows. A year earlier, the
figure was 98 percent.  Annual Return  The 126 pension funds rely on a median 8 percent annual
return on invested assets in their projections, while Wilshire
forecast 6.4 percent. The numbers aren’t fully comparable
because Wilshire’s projections are for 10 years while most
pension funds have a window of 20 to 30 years, the report noted.  Over the past decade, the funds have pulled back from U.S.
stocks and bonds in favor of an investment strategy that relies
more on real estate, non-U.S. stocks and private equity, the
report said. That has slightly reduced the funds’ exposure to
risk, according to Wilshire.  “What you’re seeing across the systems is a desire to
maintain growth embedded in the portfolios but to do it in a
more balanced way,” Foresti said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 Jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  