-- Lufthansa’s Attracts Second Bidder for Discount Division of BMI
-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r
-- 2012-03-05T14:37:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/lufthansa-s-attracts-second-bidder-for-discount-division-of-bmi.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ’s British
subsidiary BMI said a second, European, bidder is in the running
to buy its Bmibaby discount division, a month after disclosing
that an unidentified U.K.-based company had made an  offer .  A term sheet has been signed with a European Union-based
airline group with operations across several countries,  Castle
Donington , England-based BMI said in a statement today. A
definitive agreement with one of the two bidders should be
sealed in the next few weeks, it said.  The latest proposal matches the first in comprising 100
percent of Bmibaby, including its planes, BMI said, with the
bidder likewise planning to keep staff and the existing route
network. The Bmibaby brand name would be retained for a period
and its head office would remain in the East Midlands with the
airline continuing to operate from its existing U.K. bases.  “Bmibaby has attracted a great level of interest and our
discussions open up great future prospects for the airline and
its employees,” BMI Chief Executive Officer Wolfgang Prock- Schauer said in the statement.  Intro Aviation GmbH  CEO Peter Oncken couldn’t immediately
be reached for comment on whether the German turnaround
specialist is the new bidder. Oncken said in an interview in
January that Intro has expressed an interest in BMI and would
carry out due diligence to see if it could be “restructured.”  Sale Price  Bmibaby operates 12  Boeing Co. (BA)  737-300 aircraft and two
737-500 variants. It had a loss of about 120 million euros ($159
million) last year, according to Credit Suisse Group.  British Airways parent  International Consolidated Airlines
Group SA (IAG)  agreed in December to buy BMI’s main operations, based
at  London ’s Heathrow airport, for 172.5 million pounds ($274
million), while indicating that it didn’t want the discount
unit. Lufthansa,  Europe ’s second-biggest airline, needs to find
a buyer or the sale price will be affected.  Britain’s  Office of Fair Trading  said separately today that
it has decided not to ask the EU’s competition regulator for a
U.K. review of IAG’S BMI acquisition.  The OFT said it will continue to work closely with the EU
as it assesses whether the takeover would raise concerns about
competition at Heathrow, especially on routes to  Scotland  and
northwest  England .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Jasper in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  