-- Lundbeck Anti-Binge Drinking Drug Helps Cut Intake by 66%
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-03-05T17:10:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/lundbeck-anti-binge-drinking-drug-helps-cut-intake-66-in-clinical-trials.html
H. Lundbeck A/S (LUN) , the Nordic region’s
second-largest drugmaker, said its anti-alcoholism treatment
nalmefene helped patients cut consumption by an average of 66
percent in three clinical trials.  Results of the final stage of clinical trials showed
nalmefene helped curb drinking more than a placebo and medical
advice, Lundbeck said in a presentation at a medical meeting in
 Prague  today. Nalmefene users reported a 64 percent to 79
percent drop in total alcohol intake, compared with 49 percent
to 64 percent for those on placebo, Copenhagen-based Lundbeck
said.  Heavy drinking is Europe’s second-largest risk factor for
poor health. Lundbeck plans to offer nalmefene as a treatment
option to those who suffer from alcohol dependency and are
turned off by abstinence, which is advocated by most experts,
said Anders Gersel Pedersen, head of Lundbeck’s research and
development. About 70 percent of patients who enrolled in the
clinical trials for nalmefene had never received treatment,
Pedersen said in a telephone interview.  “It changes the whole paradigm around the conversation
about alcohol use between the physician and the patient,” he
said.  Awaiting Approval  Lundbeck submitted nalmefene, which may become the first
new medicine sold to treat heavy drinking in more than 15 years,
to the European Medicines Agency in December based on the
research. A decision on the drug from the European regulator
probably will come in the beginning of next year, Pedersen said.  Lundbeck fell 0.7 percent to 117.10 kroner in Copenhagen.
Shares of Turku, Finland-based  Biotie Therapies Oyj (BTH1V) , which
licensed nalmefene to Lundbeck, rose 2 percent to 52 euro cents
in Helsinki. If the product is cleared, Biotie may receive as
much as 84 million euros ($111 million) in payments from
Lundbeck in addition to royalties on sales.  Patients taking nalmefene had high withdrawal rate in one
of the three late-stage studies, mostly because of adverse
events, Danske Markets analysts attending the Prague meeting
wrote today in a note to investors. In the six-month Esense 1
trial, only 142 of 302 patients on the drug completed the study,
compared with 205 of 296 patients taking placebo, the analysts
said. The most frequent adverse events were dizziness, insomnia
and nausea, Lundbeck said.  Heavy Drinking Days  Those who stayed on the medication reported 63 percent
fewer heavy drinking days and a 64 percent reduction in total
alcohol consumption, the analysts wrote.  “This is quite a substantial difference,” they said.  While the differences between drinkers taking nalmefene and
those getting a placebo were statistically significant, the
results didn’t show a huge numerical difference, Jefferies
International Ltd. analysts led by Peter Welford wrote in a note
to investors today.  Patients who received a placebo and medical advice had a 50
percent reduction in heavy drinking days and total alcohol
consumption in the Esense 1 trial, according to Lundbeck. In the
six-month Esense 2 study, nalmefene users cut their heavy
drinking days by 65 percent, compared with 61 percent in the
placebo group. Total alcohol consumption fell 68 percent among
those taking the drug, compared with a 63 percent decline for
the placebo group.  Placebo Effect  “This should be as expected given the medical advice
available to all patients in the trials, and perhaps illustrates
an important placebo-effect of a treatment” such as this
“being made commercially available,” Welford and his
colleagues wrote. “Nevertheless, this could complicate
regulatory discussions.”  A third study, dubbed Sense, followed patients for 12
months and found nalmefene users had about an 80 percent
reduction in both heavy drinking days and total alcohol intake,
compared with 60 percent and 64 percent declines, respectively,
in the placebo group, Lundbeck said.  Lundbeck is targeting Europe for nalmefene, where annual
per capita consumption, at 12.18 liters (3.2 gallons), is double
the global average and 40 percent higher than in the Americas,
according to the  World Health Organization . The drug will be
marketed under the name Selincro.  Alcohol Deaths  Alcohol abuse results in 2.5 million deaths each year, more
than those caused by AIDS or tuberculosis, according to the
Geneva-based WHO. The highest proportion of alcohol-related
mortality is in  Russia  and neighboring countries, where every
fifth death results from alcohol abuse.  “This is a potential revolution,” said  David Nutt ,
professor of neuropsychopharmacology at  Imperial College London ,
said in an interview before the study results were released.
“Some people, like Alcoholics Anonymous, will be completely
against it. But others will welcome it as a way to control their
drinking.”  Nutt calls nalmefene a “drinking regulator” that would be
“cheaper than getting drunk.” He has received grants or fees
for consulting or speaking from drugmakers involved in addiction
treatment including Lundbeck, though he didn’t play a role in
any research on nalmefene.  Peak Sales  The drug may have peak sales of $55 million, assuming 10
percent of diagnosed European patients take it, though revenue
could reach $300 million, the Jefferies analysts estimated.
Higher sales would require a partnership to sell the drug to
general practitioners, or promotional support from governments
seeking to improve public health, the analysts said.  Lundbeck is aiming to form a marketing partnership once the
labeling of nalmefene has been defined with the European
Medicines Agency, Pedersen said. Nalmefene won’t be sold in the
U.S., where it would be protected from generic competition for
only five years, compared with 10 years in  Europe , Lundbeck
Chief Financial Officer Anders Gotzsche said in a November
interview.  Nalmefene works by blocking brain signals that make
activities such as sex and drinking feel good. Patients on the
medicine can continue drinking, an approach that divides alcohol
treatment experts because many advocate abstinence.  Existing therapies include the generic drug Antabuse, also
known as disulfiram, and  Forest Laboratories Inc. (FRX) ’s Campral and
are generally used to help patients who have abstained from
resuming drinking. Antabuse causes illness when alcohol is
consumed, while Campral eases symptoms of withdrawal, such as
anxiety and insomnia.  Lundbeck’s biggest seller is the antidepressant Lexapro,
sold outside the U.S. as Cipralex. The drug generated 8.5
billion kroner ($1.5 billion) in worldwide sales last year and
581 million kroner in the U.S., where the patent expires in
2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in  London  at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  