-- Utsumi Says ‘Quicksand’ of BOJ Bond Purchases Adds to Japan Fiscal Risks
-- B y   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a   a n d   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2012-03-05T05:07:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/utsumi-says-quicksand-of-boj-bond-purchases-adds-to-japan-fiscal-risks.html
The  Bank of Japan (8301)  is locked into
purchasing more government bonds and may contribute to a
loosening of fiscal discipline in the world’s largest  public
debt  market, a former top Japanese currency official said.  “Since they have come this far, if the BOJ stops
purchasing bonds, there will be a fall in bond prices and huge
valuation losses” for banks, said Makoto Utsumi, former vice
finance minister for international affairs and now president of
 Japan  Credit Rating Agency Ltd. “They’re damned if they do and
they’re damned if they don’t,” he said in an interview in Tokyo
on March 1.  The central bank last month boosted bond purchases through
its asset fund by 10 trillion yen ($123 billion) as part of
easing measures to counter deflation and spur growth. That means
the BOJ is poised to buy a record 25 percent of bonds sold by
the government in the fiscal year starting in April.  In the long term, the nation risks a loss of fiscal
discipline, said Utsumi, 77, who led the nation’s currency
policy from 1989 to 1991. “It looks to me like the BOJ is
increasingly stepping into quicksand.”  Yields on benchmark 10-year bonds traded unchanged at 0.99
percent at 1:37 p.m. in Tokyo.  Monetary Policy  In parliamentary testimony on March 2, BOJ Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  renewed his commitment to keep monetary policies
accommodative until inflation of 1 percent is in sight, aiming
to end more than a decade of deflation. The BOJ buys 1.8
trillion yen of  government bonds  a month separate from its
purchases using its asset fund.  Japan’s government is aiming to support an economy that has
contracted for three of the past four years and is constrained
by falling prices, weakness in export demand and strength in the
yen. Signs of a revival this quarter have included gains in
retail sales and industrial production and Toyota Motor Corp.
raising its profit forecast.  At the same time as it seeks to spur growth, the government
needs to limit the increase in a public debt already about twice
the size of growth domestic product. Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  is trying to secure lawmakers’ support for doubling the
nation’s sales tax to increase revenue.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masahiro Hidaka in  Tokyo  at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net ;
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  