-- Venizelos Says Greek Debt Swap Is Best, Only Offer for Investors
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2012-03-05T17:31:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/venizelos-says-greece-prepared-to-force-bondholders-into-140-billion-swap.html
Greece  expects bondholders to accept
a one-time offer to write off about 100 billion euros ($140
billion) of Greek debt and is ready to force them to participate
if necessary, Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said.  “This is the best offer,” Venizelos said in a Bloomberg
Television interview with Nicole Itano in Athens today. “This
is the best offer because this is the only one, the only
existing offer.”  European leaders are facing the first test of their attempt
to turn the page on the two-year debt crisis as Greece’s private
creditors decide whether to sign off on the biggest sovereign-
debt restructuring in history. The success of the 106 billion-
euro swap, confirmed on the eve of last week’s European summit,
depends on how many investors agree to the writedown by the
March 8 deadline.  “This is the critical week,” Venizelos said.  Twelve banks and investors represented on the steering
committee of the  Institute of International Finance , the body
that negotiated the swap with the government, said today that
they planned to take up the offer. They include companies with
the largest holdings of Greek  government bonds  such as  National
Bank of Greece SA (ETE) ,  BNP Paribas (BNP) ,  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  and Deutsche Bank
AG, an e-mailed statement from the Washington-based IIF said.  Only one steering-committee member, Landesbank Baden-
Wuerttemberg, has still to back the offer, said the IIF, which
represents more than 450 financial-services companies globally.
 Germany ’s DSW investor protection group meanwhile advised
private-sector bondholders to reject the offer.  Participation Rate  The Greek government has set a 75 percent participation
rate as a threshold for proceeding with the transaction, in
which investors will forgive 53.5 percent of their principal and
exchange their remaining holdings for new Greek government bonds
and notes from the European Financial Stability Facility. Euro-
area finance ministers last week authorized the EFSF to issue
bonds for the swap.  Erik Nielsen , chief global economist at UniCredit SpA in
 London , said enough creditors will probably participate in the
writedown to avoid triggering so-called collective action
clauses, which could be used by Greece to compel investors to
participate and roil markets by triggering credit-default swap
insurance contracts. Euro-area finance ministers will hold a
teleconference on March 9 to review the deal’s outcome.  ‘Ready to Implement’  “If we can avoid the triggering of CDSs this is the best
solution,” said Venizelos. “With a near universal
participation it’s not necessary to activate CACs. But this
clause exists in our legal order and we are ready to implement
the legislation if necessary.”  European Union leaders last week said their focus will
shift from budget-cutting to growth measures after completing
the details of the second Greek bailout. Whether that 130
billion-euro rescue package can proceed will depend on the
outcome of this week’s swap. The writedown will help Greece
focus on restoring growth to an economy now in its fifth year of
recession, the longest stretch in peacetime, Venizelos said.  “Greece is now, after the approval of the new program and
after the implementation and completion of the PSI, ready to
come back to growth,” he said. “It is absolutely necessary.”  ‘Achievable Target’  The plan for Greece seeks to reduce debt to 120.5 percent
of gross domestic product by 2020. With the swap, that is “an
achievable target,” Venizelos said.  Approval of the swap and Greece’s second rescue by other
euro-area countries shows that they don’t want to push Greece
out of the currency zone, Venizelos said.  “I accept that this phenomenon of the so-called Greek
fatigue is a parameter,” Venizelos said. In the end, though,
Greece’s partners see the country as “an integral part” of the
European community, he said. “Without Greece, it is not
possible to preserve the integrity of the European phenomenon.”  Venizelos on Feb. 15 accused some of his euro-area finance
minister counterparts of “playing with fire” in trying to push
Greece out of the euro area.  Those comments were made before
approval of the package, which is “the critical point,”
Venizelos said today.  Responding to a question about comments made by Luxembourg
Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  on March 1, when he said the
bloc has a backup “Plan B” for Greece, Venizelos said there is
no alternative course of action if the debt swap fails.  No ‘Plan B’  “We only have a Plan A,” Venizelos said. “The acceptance
and full implementation of the existing plan, the so-called Plan
A, is the best solution for Greece, for the  euro zone  and also
for creditors and holders.”  Venizelos, who is touted as a possible next leader of the
socialist Pasok party, declined to comment on whether he will
stand at party elections due on March 18 to replace  George Papandreou , the former prime minister and outgoing leader.  Any new government arising from the next parliamentary
elections, probably to be held around April 29 or May 6, will
respect the commitments given to the EU and International
Monetary Fund in return for funds, he said. Opinion polls
suggest neither Pasok nor  New Democracy , the second-biggest
parliamentary presence, will be able to govern alone.  “The appointment of a strong and stable government is
something absolutely sure,” Venizelos said. “We are ready to
take our responsibilities and fulfill our commitments and our
obligations before our partners.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Marcus Bensasson in  Athens  at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at   sfoxwell@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  