-- Vietnam to Buy Bad Debt From Banks to Ease Risk of Collapse
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-05T08:14:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/vietnam-to-buy-bad-debt-from-banks-to-ease-risk-of-collapse.html
Vietnam will buy bad debt from
lenders under a plan approved by Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung
this month, as the Southeast Asian nation seeks to prevent a
collapse in the banking system.  The  finance ministry  will buy collateralized bad-debt from
commercial banks to strengthen their balance sheets, under a
plan to overhaul the industry by 2015 that was approved by Dung.
Vietnam aims to cut bad-debt ratios at state-owned banks to
below 3 percent by 2015, according to a  statement  posted on the
government website on March 2.  “It sounds something like a bailout or at least putting
things in place to allow them to bail out the banks if
necessary,” Marc Djandji, Ho Chi Minh City-based head of
research at Viet Capital Securities Joint-Stock Company, said in
a telephone interview today. “What they want is to avoid any
type of banking system crisis.”  Questions about the health of  Vietnam ’s lenders are
underpinning concerns over the stability of the country’s
economy, with the nation stepping up efforts to fix a banking
system hobbled by bad debt. Rapid credit growth in recent years
has fueled a trade  deficit  and  Asia ’s fastest inflation,
prompting depositors to favor short-term savings and crimping
funding for long-term loans.  Vietnam’s central bank said last week it’s ready to force
mergers among weak lenders, and Dung has ordered the authority
to “solve” a shortage of funds after the credit crunch forced
thousands of companies out of business.  Banking Stocks Rose  Shares of all five banks listed on the Ho Chi Minh City
Stock Exchange rose today, as the benchmark VN Index closed 4
percent higher. Joint-Stock Commercial Bank for  Foreign Trade  of
Vietnam, known as  Vietcombank (VCB) , rose 4.8 percent to 30,400 dong,
while Vietnam Joint-Stock Commercial Bank for Industry & Trade
climbed by the maximum 5 percent daily limit to 27,500 dong.  “Restructuring, fixing and strengthening the banking
system with the lowest cost will eliminate the risk of a
collapse of the banking system” and ensure macroeconomic,
social and political stability, Dung said in the statement.  The government said it may consider measures such as
allowing greater foreign ownership in lenders defined as weak,
and buying shares directly in such banks before selling the
stakes to new investors. It also called for limitations on the
distribution of dividends and lending growth at weaker banks,
and for strict surveillance of lenders that receive government
financial support.  Bad Debt  Bad loans in Vietnam may exceed official forecasts by as
much as three times, and bad debt may “rise sharply,”
according to U.K.-based Capital Economics. The Vietnam
Association of Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises estimates
about 150,000 companies failed or shut down operations due to
financial difficulties last year, or about a third of the
country’s companies.  “The key question, which is still very unclear in Vietnam,
is how they will define bad debt,” said Alain Cany, the Ho Chi
Minh City-based chairman of the European Chamber of Commerce in
Vietnam. “The government is not rich enough to absorb too
much.”  Vietnam will “clean up” and strengthen banks’ balance
sheets by 2015, and classify commercial banks into three
categories, according to the plan. The  State Bank  of Vietnam and
the Ministry of Finance will be responsible for managing
lenders’ bad debt.  The idea of buying collateralized bad debt “doesn’t
necessarily mean they will buy it at 100 percent of face
value,” Cany said. “Maybe they will buy it based on the value
of the collateral provided.”  The country has 50 banks, including five state-owned banks
and five wholly foreign-owned banks, according to the central
bank’s website. The five largest listed banks had total assets
of almost $63 billion as of Sept. 30, according to the banks’
financial statements to the  stock exchanges .  --Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi and Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi
Minh City, with assistance from Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi, Rina Chandran and Shamim Adam in  Singapore . Editors: Stephanie Phang,
K. Oanh Ha  To contact the reporters for this story:
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net 
Jason Folkmanis in  Ho Chi Minh City  at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  