-- SEC’s Gallagher Calls for Re-Proposing Volcker Trading Ban
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n   a n d   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t
-- 2012-03-05T22:57:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/volcker-rule-needs-extensive-revisions-amid-feedback-sec-s-gallagher-says.html
U.S. regulators should “go back to
the drawing board” and make extensive revisions to their
proposed ban on banks’ proprietary trading, Securities and
Exchange Commission member Daniel Gallagher said in a speech.  The SEC and other agencies have received more than 17,000
public comments about the rule named for former Federal Reserve
Chairman  Paul Volcker , who championed the ban as an adviser to
President  Barack Obama . Among those expressing concern are
regulators from  Japan , the U.K. and  Canada , Gallagher said.  “Even a quick review of the many substantial comment
letters the commission received reveals widespread fears
regarding the effect of the proposed rules on the proper
functioning of global markets and the competitiveness of the
U.S. financial industry,” Gallagher said today in  Washington .
“These are fears that I share.”  Lawmakers included the Volcker rule in the Dodd-Frank Act
to limit risky trading by banks that benefit from federal
 deposit insurance  and other government protections. The 298-page
proposal released by the SEC and other agencies in October
sought feedback on some 1,300 questions, fueling criticism that
the rule is too complex.  “Regulators must be willing to re-examine our initial
efforts and, if necessary, go back to the drawing board to make
sure we regulate wisely, rather than just quickly,” Gallagher
said at an Institute of International Bankers conference.  Pressing Regulators  Wall Street firms including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  have pressed regulators to make major changes in
the final version of the rule, which would also limit banks’
investments in private-equity and hedge funds. Banks said the
proposed restrictions are so broad that they could interfere
with their ability to facilitate trades for clients, raise costs
for investors and increase financial system risk.  In comment letters, foreign regulators have said that the
rule, which exempts U.S. government securities, could make
sovereign debt markets less liquid.  Gallagher’s comments today echo those of Troy Paredes, his
fellow Republican on the SEC,  who last month also called for
the rule to be re-proposed. The SEC should take a lead role in
crafting the rule because of its expertise in overseeing the
securities markets, Gallagher said.  “The SEC has been dealing with these issues for a long,
long time,” he said.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress last week that
the five agencies considering the rule wouldn’t meet a July 21
deadline for final action. He didn’t answer directly when asked
if the rule would be formally re-proposed.  “We will make sure that firms have an adequate period of
time to adjust their systems and comply with the rule,”
Bernanke said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Schmidt in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  