-- Walt Whitman, First Artist of Finance (Part 1): Robert Shiller
-- B y   R o b e r t   S h i l l e r
-- 2012-03-05T00:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/walt-whitman-first-artist-of-finance-part-1-robert-shiller.html
One of the myths surrounding
economic inequality in our society is that high incomes are
often the result of selfishness and narrow-mindedness,
rather than idealism and humanity. We tend to think that
those in careers other than our own are fundamentally
different kinds of people.  Personality and character differences are, indeed,
somewhat associated with occupation. But we tend to
attribute the behavior of others to personality differences
far more often than is warranted.  We tend to think of philosophers, artists or poets as
the polar opposite of chief executive officers, bankers or
businesspeople. But the idea that those involved in
business have personalities fundamentally different from
those in other walks of life is belied by the fact that
many often combine or switch careers. Consider a few
examples.  Walt Whitman is one of our most revered poets, and his
poetry is among the most transcendent. But he could not
ignore more material concerns; he had to make a living. To
do so, he turned to fiction -- more marketable than poetry
-- and made his name with a commercial novel called
“Franklin Evans, or The Inebriate: A Tale of the Times.”  Poets Need Money  The book was an embarrassment to him, but it made
money, though apparently not enough to finance his future,
more serious work. In 1855, when Whitman self-published the
first edition of his masterpiece, “ Leaves of Grass ,” he
offered to set his own type as part of his deal with the
printer.  Although “Leaves of Grass” gradually gained
acceptance, the publication of each subsequent edition was
accompanied by further struggles. The third edition was
long delayed: When the publisher declared bankruptcy, the
printing plates of some poems were actually auctioned off.
Whitman lost profits that could have helped finance his
further writing. In his lifelong struggle to get his work
to readers, Whitman was forced to take on the role of a
businessman -- sometimes none too successfully.  Charles Ives, thought by some to be America’s greatest
symphonic composer, was first a highly successful insurance
executive. He graduated from Yale in 1898, and in 1909 he
and a partner founded a  life-insurance  agency, Ives &
Myrick. (Ives also wrote a finance book, “Life Insurance
With Relation to Inheritance Tax.”) The company, which by
1929 had grown to be the biggest life-insurance agency in
the U.S., made him a fortune of more than $20 million. His
wealth gave him the ability to produce, and subsidize the
performance of, his idiosyncratic and not immediately
popular music.  In a scene in one biography,  Ives  is portrayed at a
recording session, “probably with a sigh or curse,” taking
out his own checkbook to compensate a conductor. Because of
his wealth, Ives was better able to produce the kind of
music in which he truly believed.  The contemporary artists  Jeff Koons  and  Damien Hirst 
sometimes sell their works for more than $10 million. Koons
holds the world’s record auction price for a sculpture by a
living artist: $25,752,059 for “ Balloon Flower (Magenta) ,”
auctioned at Christie’s in 2008. Koons and Hirst are
financial sophisticates, running businesses with numerous
employees, and aggressive marketers of their own works.
Koons started out as a commodities trader at  Smith Barney 
and used the money he earned there to finance his art.  Managing Finances  People in the most spiritually minded professions --
those who work in the church, the arts or philanthropy, for
example -- are routinely involved in managing financial
resources and executing deals and contracts.  Even revolutionaries have to involve themselves in
finance. In “ Walden: Or Life in the Woods ,” Henry David Thoreau described spending 1845-47 in the woods at Walden
Pond, contemplating nature and spirituality. But he was not
really an advocate of dropping out, and in fact in his own
life he did not do so. Throughout most of his life he was
actually involved in managing his family’s pencil company
and even invented a new way of making pencil leads. He just
thought that making money should never be his life’s
overriding purpose. “To have done anything by which you
earned money merely is to have been truly idle or worse.”
The key word in this sentence is “merely.”  To the list of revolutionaries who did not abandon
commercial realities, we can add Jerry Rubin, the anti-
establishment radical who wrote “Do It! Scenarios of the
Revolution” and who was sentenced to four years in prison
for inciting protesters at the 1968 Democratic National
Convention in  Chicago . After the sentence was overturned,
Rubin headed to Wall Street to become a market analyst for
the brokerage firm John Muir & Co.  The press portrayed his transition “from yippie to
yuppie” as a contradiction, but in 1980 Rubin disagreed:
“Money has always been power,” he said. “But in the 1960s a
picket line made a difference. The ’80s are much more
hierarchical. Picket lines don’t get much attention.
Accountants have more power. Money is more the pressing
social issue of our day.” The point here is not that Rubin
has a coherent moral philosophy, but that the very same
person could succeed on both the picket line and  Wall
Street .  Self-promotion and the acquisition of wealth, whether
by financial or other means, is no crime. In fact, some of
humanity’s greatest achievements originate in just such
behavior.  (Robert Shiller is a  professor  of economics and
finance at  Yale University , where he teaches financial
markets in the  Open Yale Courses  program. He is the author
of “ Irrational Exuberance ” and “The Subprime Solution.”
This is the first in a series of four excerpts from his new
book, “ Finance and the Good Society ,” to be published April
4 by  Princeton University Press . The opinions expressed are
his own. Read  Part 2 ,  Part 3  and  Part 4 .)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
 Robert Shiller  at  Robert.Shiller@yale.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  