-- Private Investors With 20% of Greek Debt to Join Swap
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 2012-03-06T09:26:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/twelve-banks-commit-to-greek-debt-swap-plan-as-deadline-for-approval-looms.html
The private investors that so far
declared their participation in Greece’s debt restructuring hold
about 20 percent of the bonds involved in a swap required for an
international bailout.  The 12 members of the creditors’ steering committee that
said yesterday they would join in the exchange have debt with a
face value of at least 40 billion euros ($53 billion), compared
with the 206 billion euros of Greek bonds in private hands,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg from company reports.  European officials are pressing investors to swallow the
writedowns to avert even greater losses. The participating firms
include some of Greece’s biggest creditors, including  National
Bank of Greece SA ,  Alpha Bank SA (ALPHA) ,  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  and  Commerzbank
AG. (CBK)  The goal of the swap, which runs through March 8, is to
reduce by 53.5 percent the total of privately held Greek debt,
helping avert an uncontrolled default that could roil markets
and spur contagion to states such as Portugal.  “It’s in the interest of the private creditors as well as
the international stability,” French European Affairs Minister
Jean Leonetti said today in an interview in Paris. “All private
creditors know it’s better to lose a little to win a lot rather
than lose a lot later and win nothing. It’s better to lose 107
billion and win after in a more stable market.”  ‘Only Offer’  Only one steering-committee member, Landesbank Baden-
Wuerttemberg, has still to back the offer, said the
International Institute of Finance, which represents more than
450 financial-services companies globally and led debt-swap
negotiations for private creditors. Germany’s DSW investor
protection group separately advised private-sector bondholders
to reject the offer.  A completion of the bond exchange is crucial to Europe’s
efforts to turn the page on the Greek sovereign debt saga, which
has dragged on for more than two years. The second rescue
package, a 130 billion-euro bailout, depends on the swap’s
outcome.  Greece  is ready to force bondholders to participate if
necessary, Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said in a
Bloomberg Television interview with Nicole Itano in Athens.  “This is the best offer,” Venizelos said. “This is the
best offer because this is the only one, the only existing
offer.”  ‘Own Interests’  The Greek government has set a 75 percent participation
rate as a threshold for proceeding with the transaction, in
which investors will forgive more than half of their principal
and exchange their remaining holdings for new Greek government
bonds and notes from the European Financial Stability Facility.
Euro-area finance ministers last week authorized the EFSF to
issue bonds for the swap.  Each debt holder “must make their own decision whether or
not to participate in those offers based on their own particular
interests and on the advice and assistance of their own
advisers,” the Washington-based IIF said in a statement
yesterday.  IIF Managing Director Charles Dallara and  Jean Lemierre , a
senior adviser to the chairman of Paris-based BNP Paribas,
negotiated the debt swap on behalf of investors.  The other members of the steering committee that plan to
accept the swap are  Allianz SE (ALV) ,  Axa SA (CS) ,  CNP Assurances (CNP) ,  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK) ,  EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA (EUROB) , Greylock Capital Management,
 ING Bank (INGA)  and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , according to the statement
from the IIF.  The 32 members of the IIF’s larger creditors’ committee --
which includes the steering committee -- have already taken at
least 24 billion euros in combined writedowns on the country’s
sovereign debt, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  