-- Western Digital-Hitachi Deal Approved by FTC Pending Asset Sale to Toshiba
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-03-05T21:36:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/western-digital-hitachi-deal-approved-by-ftc-pending-asset-sale-to-toshiba.html
Western Digital Corp. (WDC)  can buy
Hitachi Global Storage Technologies Ltd. if it sells assets to
Toshiba Corp. that Hitachi uses to make and sell desktop hard-
disk drives, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission said.  The FTC approved the $4.5 billion acquisition under a
settlement agreement that resolves the competitive issues raised
by the transaction and enables Tokyo-based Toshiba to replace
Hitachi Global Storage Technologies in the market for desktop
hard drives, the agency said today in a statement  “Protecting competition in the high-tech marketplace is a
high priority for the FTC,” Bureau of Competition Director
Richard Feinstein said in the statement. The settlement “will
ensure that vigorous competition continues in the worldwide
market for desktop hard disk drives, and that consumers are not
faced with higher prices or reduced innovation as a result of
this deal,” he said.  According to the FTC,  Toshiba (6502)  can replace Hitachi Global
Storage Technologies as a competitor in the worldwide market for
desktop hard drives. Toshiba makes and sells hard drives for use
with mobile devices and other applications, and doesn’t compete
directly with  Irvine , California-based Western Digital or
Hitachi Global Storage Technologies, the FTC said.  Under the terms of the settlement, Toshiba will receive all
of the productive assets needed to replicate Hitachi Global
Storage’s position in the desktop hard drive market, the FTC
said. The agreement also requires that Western Digital provide
Toshiba with access to employees, license intellectual property,
make disk drives and sell them to Toshiba until Toshiba is able
to make them on its own, the FTC said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  