-- Westfield Group Discusses Partnership With Owners of U.K. Shopping Center
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2012-03-05T17:11:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/westfield-group-discusses-partnership-with-owners-of-u-k-shopping-center.html
Westfield Group (WDC)  is in talks to
become a partner in a south London shopping mall with co-owners
who may default on a loan for the property after the main office
tenant moved out.  Irish Bank Resolution Corp.’s (ANGL)  private clients, who bought a
50 percent stake in the Whitgift Centre in 2005, may miss
repayments on a 171 million-pound ($227 million) loan used to
make the purchase, the Dublin-based bank said in a report to
investors obtained by Bloomberg News. Westfield may redevelop
the site in the borough of Croydon, though IBRC’s clients are
also discussing a partnership with other companies, the bank
said in the report, without identifying them.  IBRC, formerly Anglo Irish Bank Corp., declined to comment
in an e-mail. Separately, Westfield is working with the Whitgift
Foundation, owner of the land on which the mall is built, on a
plan for the site, the Sydney-based retailer said in a Nov. 10
statement.  The shopping center has 167 shops and 410,000 square feet
(38,100 square meters) of offices. About 80 percent of the
 office space  at Whitgift was empty at the end of 2011 after the
 Home Office , the U.K. agency responsible for immigration and
crime, vacated a building there.  Less Rental Income  Rental income “has fallen to a level where our ability to
service our interest is challenged,” the bank said in the
report. “Should we fail to meet interest servicing commitment,
the facility will be in default.”  IBRC’s clients bought the stake in the Whitgift mall for
225 million pounds by using 66 million pounds of equity provided
by them and a non-recourse loan, according to the report.  The property was valued at about 143 million pounds in
October by DTZ Debenham Tie Leung Ltd, 36.5 percent less than
the purchase price, IBRC said in the report. That means
investors have lost all their equity, the bank said.  A spokesman for Royal London Asset Management, which holds
part of the mall’s leasehold, confirmed that Westfield is among
the potential investors holding talks on the redevelopment. He
declined to be identified. The company, based in the U.K.
capital, isn’t affected by IBRC’s loan payments.  Hammerson Plc (HMSO) , which bought the  Centrale  mall in Croydon a
year ago, is also interested in becoming a partner on the
Whitgift site, Lawrence Hutchings, head of the company’s U.K.
retail unit, said in a  call  with analysts Feb. 24. Hutchings
said he hopes that talks about a partnership are concluded
“very quickly and naturally we’re hoping that we’re the
successful candidate.”  Westfield didn’t respond to a request for comment.  The Irish government took over Anglo Irish Bank Corp. in
January 2009, according to its website. Irish Nationwide
Building Society’s operations were transferred to the bank in
July 2011 and the lender was renamed IBRC in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in  London  at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 