-- Wheat Drops From One-Month High as Rain May Boost Plains Crops
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-03-05T20:50:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/wheat-drops-from-one-month-high-as-rain-may-boost-plains-crops.html
Wheat futures fell from a one-month
high on speculation that rains this week in the U.S. Great
Plains will improve the prospects of winter crops emerging from
dormancy this month.  Areas of the Plains may get as much as 1.5 inches (3.8
centimeters) of precipitation through March 9, QT Weather said.
The crop in  Kansas , the biggest U.S. winter-wheat grower, was
rated 52 percent good to excellent as of Feb. 27, up from 49
percent a month earlier, government data show. Parts of southern
 Kansas  still suffer from dry  conditions  after months of below-
normal rain, University of Nebraska at Lincoln data show.  “The Kansas area seems to be in a pretty reasonable
moisture situation now,” Lawrence Kane, a market adviser at
Stewart-Peterson Group in  Yates City , Illinois, said in a
telephone interview. “Last fall, they were bone dry, but they
have rebuilt their soil-moisture profile.”  Wheat futures for May delivery fell 0.4 percent to $6.72 a
bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the  Chicago  Board of Trade. Earlier, the
price reached $6.7775, the highest for a most-active contract
since Feb. 1.  The heaviest rain will fall in central Kansas southward to
central  Texas , while western areas may get less,  Allen Motew , a
meteorologist at QT Weather in Chicago, said in a telephone
interview. Temperatures may top 70 degrees Fahrenheit (21
degrees Celsius) in much of the Plains today and tomorrow before
falling below freezing on March 8, he said.  Wheat is the fourth-largest U.S. crop, valued at $14.4
billion in 2011, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick McKiernan at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net  