-- World Bank Says Carbon Fund May Shrink Following Price Slump
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e   a n d   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-03-05T09:02:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/world-bank-says-carbon-fund-may-shrink-following-price-slump.html
A World Bank Group unit says its
fund for investing in carbon projects that generate emissions
credits after 2012, when the first commitment period of the
 United Nations ’ Kyoto Protocol ends, will probably shrink.  The International Finance Corp. said its Carbon Facility
Fund, which had raised 150 million euros ($198 million) when it
closed in June, was suspended by November after plummeting UN
offset prices triggered a measure to protect projects supplying
the credits. Investors will probably scale back their
commitments to the fund, according to the corporation.  “I think the fund size will reduce,” Vikram Widge, head
of climate financial products at the IFC in  Washington , said in
a March 2 telephone interview. “Watching where the market
settles is the prudent thing to do.” The bank’s unit is looking
at ways of changing the structure of the fund and will make a
decision around the end of the month, he said.  JPMorgan Chase & Co (JPM) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , and Mercuria
Energy Group Ltd. are among investors that committed to the
fund, which will provide credits that may be eligible for use in
the European Union carbon market. United Nations carbon prices
lost 60 percent in the past year as industrial production
stagnated and climate talks struggled to achieve progress on
reaching a global agreement to reduce  carbon emissions .  UN carbon credits for delivery in December fell below
previous record levels on Oct. 13 on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in  London  and plummeted as low as 3.28 euros a metric
ton on January 16. The contract traded as high as 13.60 euros
last year and was down 1.1 percent today to 4.66 euros as of
8:36 a.m. local time.  ‘Plunged and Recovered’  “They plunged and recovered a bit but they’re not likely
to go back to where they were in a hurry,” Widge said. He said
a new structure will probably involve reducing the floor price
in purchase contracts agreed by the fund. Widge declined to
specify where the previous floor price was, which triggered the
suspension. There will probably be some projects interested in a
floor price around 4 euros, he said.  The IFC has access to a limited number of projects, Widge
said. Before it was suspended, the fund had only committed to
one carbon project. It purchased credits for the seven years
through 2020 from a biomass power project in  India  developed by
Shalivahana Green Energy Ltd., according to a statement in
August.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net ;
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  