-- Yahoo Said to Consider Job Cuts as CEO Aims for Turnaround
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-03-05T21:18:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/yahoo-said-to-weigh-job-cuts-as-ceo-thompson-copes-with-market-share-loss.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  is considering making
significant cuts to its staff, a person familiar with the matter
said, as Chief Executive Officer  Scott Thompson  overhauls the
Web portal’s business to cope with market-share losses.  The firings could begin in a few weeks, said the person,
who declined to be identified because the moves haven’t been
announced. Thompson, a former  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  executive, said in
January that the Sunnyvale, California-based company would focus
on its strengths and “prioritize” how its uses its capital.  Yahoo, owner of the most popular U.S. Internet portal, is
looking for ways to increase efficiency following a failed
turnaround effort under  Carol Bartz , who was fired as CEO in
September. Online advertisers have increasingly turned to rivals
such as social network Facebook Inc. and search engine  Google
Inc. (GOOG) , websites where users are spending more time each month.  “We need to innovate and disrupt, and not just in the
areas where we’ve always been,” Thompson said on a conference
call with analysts on Jan. 24. “We will consider new business
models and revenue sources and we will build on our core
technology and platform expertise.”  Yahoo’s Workforce  The planned firings were reported earlier by the website
 AllThingsD , which said the cuts “are likely to number in the
thousands.” Even though Bartz eliminated jobs while at Yahoo,
the company had 14,100 employees at the end of 2011, up from
13,600 at the end of December 2008, less than a month before she
became CEO.  “Our leadership is engaged in a process that will generate
significant strategic change at Yahoo, but final decisions have
not yet been made at this point,” Dana Lengkeek, a Yahoo
spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement. “Beyond that, we
will not comment.”  Yahoo lost its lead in U.S. display advertising in 2011 to
Facebook, owner of the world’s largest social-networking
service, according to New York-based  EMarketer Inc.  Yahoo’s
share was 11 percent last year, down from 14 percent in 2010,
while Facebook’s was 14 percent, up from 12 percent. Yahoo’s
share peaked at 18 percent in 2008, EMarketer said.  In January, Yahoo said fourth-quarter revenue, excluding
sales passed on to partner sites, fell to $1.17 billion. Income
from operations in the first quarter will be in the range of
$105 million to $155 million, Yahoo said, shy of the $184.2
million that analysts had projected, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Thompson, who started at Yahoo on Jan. 9, was formerly the
president of EBay’s  PayPal  unit. While there, he helped more
than double revenue at the payments service while boosting the
user base to more than 100 million.  Yahoo shares fell less than 1 percent to $14.62 at the
close in  New York . The stock has declined 9.4 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  