-- Yemeni Militants Kill 100 Soldiers, Loot Base of Weapons, Armored Vehicles
-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m   a n d   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 2012-03-05T12:18:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/yemen-militants-kill-60-soldiers-in-army-base-raid-to-loot-arms-vehicles.html
A Yemen army outpost in the
country’s south was overwhelmed by Islamic militants who killed
dozens of soldiers and looted the base of its heavy weaponry and
armored vehicles  The attack on the Al Koud base left 103 soldiers and 25
militants dead,  Agence France-Presse  reported, citing the army
hospital in Aden. An army official, declining to be identified
because he’s not authorized to speak to media, said earlier that
about 60 soldiers were killed and dozens more captured and taken
to the city of Jaar, which is under the militants’ control.  Yemen’s President Abdurabu Mansur Hadi, who replaced Ali Abdullah Saleh last month as part of a power-transfer accord,
was bequeathed one of the world’s worst-performing economies and
a political landscape that includes secessionist movements in
the north and south, street protesters demanding more change,
and al-Qaeda militants who control entire towns and have used
Yemen as a base to attack targets in neighboring Saudi Arabia
and the U.S.  The attacked was carried out by gunmen from Ansar al-
Sharia, which means ‘Supporters of Islamic Law’ and whose
members have claimed to be affiliated with al-Qaeda. Yemen’s
army recaptured the military post, according to a statement on
the  defense ministry  website. The statement didn’t specify how
many people were killed.  No. 1 Threat  “Al-Qaeda in Yemen is taking advantage of the post-
election environment in order to remind the new government that
they are still the number one threat to the unity of the country
and that their expansion of operations is an indicator of how
weak the government is,” said  Theodore Karasik , director of
research at the Dubai-based Institute for Near East and Gulf
Military Analysis.  The Akhbar al-Youm daily newspaper said more than 70
soldiers were killed and 30 others wounded in the battle. About
56 soldiers were captured by the militants, according to the
newspaper.  Hadi was elected unopposed on Feb. 21 as part of an
internationally backed transition plan. The fighting comes after
Brigadier Madhi Maqoulaa, commander of the southern region and a
loyalist to Saleh, was removed from his post by Hadi. Militants
have controlled parts of Abyan since May.  Brigadier General Mohammed al-Darwi, former deputy chief of
operations at the Defense Ministry, accused military officials
loyal to Saleh of colluding with the militants by not providing
air support to stop the looting of the base, according to Akhbar
al-Youm newspaper.  Yemen’s economy was one of the world’s three worst last
year, with  Greece  and  Ivory Coast , as rebel attacks on oil
pipelines hurt exports.  The $40 billion economy shrank by at least 5 percent in
2011, Saadaldeen Talib, industry and trade minister in the
interim government that took over in December, said in a Feb. 17
interview in Sana’a.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Dubai at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net ;
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  