-- Yuan Volatility Jumps on Currency’s Trading Band Outlook: China Overnight
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-03-06T03:33:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/yuan-volatility-jumps-on-currency-s-trading-band-outlook-china-overnight.html
Bets on swings in the yuan surged as
policy makers signaled they may allow greater flexibility in the
Chinese currency after it surged 31 percent since 2005.  Implied volatility on one-month options for the yuan versus
the dollar rose 11 basis points, the most since December, to
1.88 percent in  New York  trading after Xinhua News Agency cited
People’s Bank of China Governor Zhou Xiaochuan saying the nation
may “appropriately” widen the currency’s trading band. The
Bloomberg China-US 55 index of the most-traded Chinese stocks in
the U.S. slid 1.9 percent after Premier Wen Jiabao reduced
China’s economic growth goal to 7.5 percent for 2012, from 8
percent over the past seven years.  The central bank’s aim to loosen limits on currency moves
and the growth-target change may discourage speculative bets on
yuan appreciation, according to Standard Chartered Plc, one of
the five most accurate forecasters for Asian currencies in the
six quarters through December, according to Bloomberg Rankings.
The implied volatility, a reflection of traders’ expectations of
yuan swings in the next month, rose to the highest since Feb. 7.  “A broader trading band does raise the prospect of greater
volatility,” said  Mike Moran , a currency strategist in New York
at  Standard Chartered , which forecasts a 1.6 percent advance in
the yuan this year and was ranked as the fifth-most accurate
forecaster by Bloomberg Rankings. “Uncertainty of the growth
trajectory has tempered the more bullish positioning in the
yuan.”  Central Parity  The Chinese yuan, also called the renminbi or RMB, has
appreciated against the dollar every year since 2005 when the
government abandoned a peg to the greenback. The yuan fell 0.04
percent to 6.3095 per dollar as of 11:17 a.m. in  Shanghai  and
earlier reached 6.3189, the weakest level in five weeks. The
central bank weakened the yuan’s daily fixing for a second day,
by setting it 0.03 percent lower at 6.3141.  “Investors were a bit surprised by  China ’s cut in the
growth target and that damped optimism surrounding the global
economic recovery,” said Stella Lee, president of Success
Futures & Foreign Exchange Ltd. in  Hong Kong . “Zhou’s comments
on flexibility don’t signal any near-term yuan movement but
concern the long-term  exchange-rate  reform.”  The People’s Bank announces a central parity for the yuan
versus nine currencies including the dollar each trading day and
then allows it to strengthen or weaken by 0.5 percent from the
rate. The practice has drawn criticism from the U.S., which says
Beijing keeps the yuan artificially weak, hurting American
manufacturers.  The iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund, the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., sank 2.7 percent to $39.17
yesterday in New York, the lowest level since Feb. 10. The
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  declined 0.4 percent to 1,364.33,
after rallying for the past three weeks, as orders to American
factories decreased for the first time in three months.  ‘Negative News’  China Life Insurance Co. (LFC) , the nation’s largest insurer,
sank 5.8 percent, the most since Nov. 16, to $43.99 in New York,
while online games operator  Changyou.com Ltd. (CYOU)  tumbled 7.6
percent to a one-month low of $25.35. The  Bloomberg China-US 55
Index (CH55BN)  slid to 106.57, the weakest level in almost three weeks
and trimming its gain this year to 11 percent.  “Any lower than expected growth rate from China may
initially be welcomed as somewhat negative news for world
growth,” Joe Davis, the Valley Forge, Pennsylvania-based chief
economist and head of investment strategy at Vanguard Group Inc.,
said by phone yesterday. “If you look at China as well as other
 emerging markets , the valuations are pretty supportive of decent
long-run equity returns.”  The Bloomberg China-US 55 measure trades at 19 times
analysts’ estimates for member company earnings, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index is  trading  at
11 times estimated 12-month earnings, compared with a multiple
of 13 for the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  for equities in developed markets.  ‘Greater Floating’  The central bank last expanded the yuan’s trading band
against the dollar from 0.3 percent to 0.5 percent in May 2007.
An official at the press office, who didn’t identify himself,
picked up Bloomberg’s call today and asked Bloomberg to send in
questions by fax. The office has yet responded to Bloomberg
questions.  “The RMB exchange rate has gradually met the requirements
for greater floating,” Zhou told Xinhua in an interview at
China’s annual parliamentary session. “The PBOC is considering
that the yuan’s daily floating band could be increased.”  The comments signal that policy makers may reduce dollar
purchases that limit gains in the currency because it is now
closer to an equilibrium level determined by the current-account
balance, said Jeremy Brewin, who oversees about $4 billion of
emerging-market debt at Aviva Investors in  London .  “They won’t intervene much to support or weaken the
currency if there’s normal trading,” Brewin said by phone.
“It’s a healthy development.”  Buying Dollars  The surplus in China’s current account, the broadest
measure of trade and services, probably narrowed to 3 percent of
gross domestic product in 2011, the State Administration of
Foreign Exchange said in a statement last month. The surplus
will shrink further to 2 percent of GDP next year, from more
than 10 percent in 2007, according to the median forecast of six
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The central bank has been buying dollars to slow the yuan’s
appreciation and reduce costs and exchange-rate volatility for
Chinese exporters. The practice has seen foreign-currency
reserves jump four-fold to $3.2 trillion since the end of 2005.  President Barack Obama’s administration has pressed China
to accelerate the yuan’s appreciation as it seeks to boost
exports and lower unemployment. The Senate last year approved a
bill that would let U.S. companies seek tariffs to compensate
for China’s undervalued yuan. The legislation has stalled in the
 House of Representatives .  One-Way Bets  A wider trading band will boost volatility in  currency
trading  and help deter speculators from betting on continuous
currency appreciation, according to  Nick Chamie , the head of
emerging markets at  RBC Capital Markets  in Toronto.  “To allow the currency to trade in a wider range would
increase the risk of people putting on one-way currency
appreciation bets,” Chamie said in a phone interview.  Premier Wen, 69, also told the country’s top legislature
yesterday that China will improve the mechanism for setting the
exchange rate, make the currency regime more “flexible,” and
keep the yuan “basically stable at an appropriate and
balanced” level.  “Slower growth in China is good; you can’t have an economy
that size growing at a 10 percent clip in perpetuity,” Jonathan Neill, who helps manage $250 million at FPP Asset Management LLP
in London, said by e-mail. “As for the currency, we estimate it
has appreciated by almost 50 percent in real terms since 1997 so
there is no need for any revaluation, quite the contrary in fact;
you could make an argument for a lower exchange rate versus the
 U.S. dollar .”  Yuan NDFs  Twelve-month non-deliverable yuan forwards slipped 0.12
percent to 6.2990 per dollar, indicating traders are betting
that the currency will appreciate about 0.2 percent over the
next year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yuan
will strengthen to 5.92 per dollar by the end of 2013, according
to the median of 21 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  China will adopt a gradual approach to currency reform as
the nation seeks to keep economic growth stable amid a shrinking
global export market, said Win Thin, global head of emerging-
markets strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York  “It will be a very gradual move, especially in the current
environment,” Thin said. “I wouldn’t expect anything
imminent.”  China Life Discount  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slid 1.2 percent, the biggest
drop since Feb. 7, to 2,418.478 today. The Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index fell 1.8 percent to 11,261.82, extending this
week’s loss to 4.1 percent.  Beijing-based China Life’s American depositary receipts,
each representing 15 common shares, traded 1 percent  below  the
company’s stock in Hong Kong, which declined 4.4 percent to
HK$23, the equivalent of $2.96 per share. The discount was the
biggest since Feb. 22. China Life’s Shanghai-traded stock slid
2.7 percent to 18.33 yuan yesterday, the equivalent of $2.91 per
share.  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. (YZC) , the nation’s fourth-biggest
producer of the fuel, slumped 4.5 percent to a seven-week low of
$23.37 in New York.  The company’s board approved a plan to sell as much as $1
billion of dollar-denominated bonds abroad through an offshore
unit, according to a filing to the Hong Kong Stock Exchange
yesterday after trading closed in the city.  The Chinese government is scheduled to report inflation
data for February on March 9. Consumer prices probably rose 3.4
percent from a year earlier, from 4.5 percent in January,
according to the median estimate of 31 economists in a Bloomberg
survey. Wen set an annual inflation target of 4 percent for 2012
in his report yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  