-- Zell Company Seeks Part of Any Future Lawsuit Winnings Over Tribune Buyout
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-03-05T22:18:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/zell-company-seeks-part-of-any-future-lawsuit-winnings-over-tribune-buyout.html
Billionaire  Sam Zell  is demanding a
share of any money retirees and other creditors may win in
lawsuits or legal settlements over the 2007 leveraged buyout he
engineered of newspaper publisher  Tribune Co. (TRB)   The demand, made through the Zell-controlled company EGI
TRB LLC, came in one of the disputes being heard in  bankruptcy
court  over how to split any money creditors win in dozens of
lawsuits over claims the buyout was a fraud on creditors. U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Carey began a two-day hearing today about
the disputes.  “In the ultimate display of chutzpah, Zell and EGI are
asserting that their tainted claims should now be treated on par
with innocent creditors who had nothing to do with the LBO,” a
group of about 185 retired managers and other highly paid former
employees said in court papers.  Carey must decide which creditors, including Zell and the
retirees, can share in a settlement in which senior lenders
agreed to give lower-ranking, unsecured creditors more than $400
million. Retirees and other creditors claim that Zell cannot
collect anything on the $225 million that Tribune owes EGI-TRB
until after other creditors are fully paid.  Carey is considering those so-called allocation disputes
before deciding on Tribune’s reorganization plan. Carey
scheduled a hearing on the $7 billion reorganization plan in
May.  $8.3 Billion Buyout  Tribune, owner of the Los Angeles Times, the  Chicago
Tribune , television stations and cable channels, filed for
bankruptcy one year after Zell used borrowed money to buy out
shareholders for $8.3 billion.  Zell can share in any proceeds of legal settlements and
lawsuits because that money wouldn’t belong to Tribune, and
therefore wouldn’t be subject to a subordination clause
associated with the EGI-TRB debt, Zell attorney David Bradford
said in court.  Under Tribune’s reorganization plan, creditors owed about
$13 billion would receive stock and cash worth about $7 billion.  The bankruptcy case is In re Tribune Co., 08-bk-13141,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  