-- Zuckerberg Not Rich Enough for Global Daily Billionaires Ranking
-- B y   A r i   L e v y   a n d   P e t e r   N e w c o m b
-- 2012-03-05T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/zuckerberg-not-rich-enough-for-global-daily-billionaires-ranking.html
Mark Zuckerberg ’s shares of  Facebook
Inc (FB) . may be worth less than $21 billion when the company
completes its initial public offering in the months ahead.  Facebook intends to issue more than 500 million shares of
its Class B common stock at the offering through the exercise of
 stock options  and grants of restricted stock, according to its
IPO prospectus. Those shares aren’t included in the total share
count in the filing, so the numbers used to calculate
Zuckerberg’s 28.4 percent ownership are incomplete.  “The percentage in the prospectus can be very
misleading,” said Sam Hamadeh, head of New York-based PrivCo, a
research firm that specializes in private companies’ financial
data. “It’s giving him credit for shares that he doesn’t
actually own yet.”  At the time of the offering, Zuckerberg is likely to sell
about $1.75 billion of Facebook stock to pay off the tax
obligation he will incur when he exercises options to buy 120
million shares. The combined transactions will dilute
Zuckerberg’s stake from 28.4 percent to about 21 percent. If the
company maintains its projected $100 billion valuation, that
would make Zuckerberg worth about $21 billion, less than the
$28.4 billion implied by his stated ownership.  At that net worth, Zuckerberg isn’t rich enough to qualify
for the Bloomberg Billionaires Index, a new daily ranking of the
world’s 20 richest people. The 20th spot is currently occupied
by L’Oreal heiress Liliane Bettencourt.  Jonathan Thaw, a spokesman at Facebook, declined to comment
in an e-mail.  New Shares  According to the prospectus filed last month, Facebook
intends to issue 138.5 million shares of Class B stock upon
exercise of options from the company’s 2005 stock plan. Those
shares have a weighted-average exercise price of approximately
83 cents.  The  Menlo Park , California-based company also will issue
380.7 million shares of restricted stock. Added together with
the company’s 1.88 billion outstanding shares of Class A and
Class B common stock, Facebook will have just less than 2.4
billion shares outstanding after the offering. At a $100 billion
valuation, each share would be worth about $41.75.  Zuckerberg’s stock options carry an exercise price of 6
cents. Assuming he buys all 120 million shares at that price,
his gains would total about $5 billion. At a 35 percent tax
rate, the social network’s founder and chief executive officer
would owe $1.75 billion in taxes. Zuckerberg would need to sell
about 42 million shares to cover the bill, bringing his total
holdings to 491.8 million shares.  Multiply that by the likely offering price and “it doesn’t
get you anywhere close to $28 billion,” said Hamadeh.  To be sure, there is a strong possibility that Facebook
shares will soar on the first day of trading. For every dollar
the stock gains, Zuckerberg will increase his fortune by half a
billion dollars. If the stock jumps 35 percent, Zuckerberg’s
stake would be worth $28 billion.  Facebook’s implied market value stood at about $101.4
billion, based on a transaction last week via secondary exchange
 SharesPost Inc.   To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Newcomb in New York at 
 pnewcomb2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  