-- Zynga to Buy San Francisco Headquarters for $228 Million
-- B y   D a n   L e v y   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c m i l l a n
-- 2012-03-06T00:40:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-05/zynga-plans-to-buy-san-francisco-headquarters-building-for-228-million.html
Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) , the online-game company
that has gained 40 percent since going public in December,
agreed to purchase its  San Francisco  headquarters building for
$228 million.  Zynga “swooped in” with a pre-emptive offer as several
real estate companies were in discussions to acquire the
building in the South of Market area, said Michael Covarrubias,
chief executive officer of San Francisco-based TMG Partners,
which is selling the property. He declined to name the firms.  The building has about 670,000 square feet (62,000 square
meters) of space, and Zynga has deposited $25 million in escrow
for the transaction, scheduled for completion in the second
quarter, the company said in a regulatory  filing . The deposit is
nonrefundable and Zynga waived due-diligence provisions,
Covarrubias said in a telephone interview.  “They eliminated all the risk for us,” he said.  Zynga moved into its new home base in the city’s technology
district last year, seeking to house a workforce that now tops
 2,800 (ZNGA) . The building features a large central atrium, and its
lobby is decorated with a 1970s Winnebago motor home and a
tunnel lit with color-pulsing LED tubes.  The company now leases about 65 percent of the building’s
space, with the rest vacant or occupied by other tenants,
according to the filing. Zynga “knows the property well” so it
was comfortable eliminating contract provisions that buyers
normally require, Covarrubias said.  The announcement was made after the close of regular U.S.
trading. Zynga, whose Dec. 15 initial share sale was priced at
$10, fell 4.9 percent to $13.97 today in New York. The shares
are up 48 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Levy in San Francisco at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Macmillan in  New York  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  