-- Getting Into Harvard Easier Than McDonald's University in China
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-01-26T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-26/getting-into-harvard-easier-than-mcdonald-s-hamburger-university-in-china.html
Zhou Xiaobu runs from one end of a
table to another, grasping a piece of a puzzle she and her team
are assembling as part of a leadership training exercise for
McDonald’s Corp. managers.  “Go, go, go,” yells their Taiwanese teacher, exhorting
them to work for the prize, a box of Danish butter cookies, for
being the first to build the company’s trademark Golden Arches.
Above their heads is a sign that reads: “Learning today,
leading tomorrow.” The thick green binders stuffed with
paperwork on each of the 31 students’ desks indicate the next
activity may not be as rousing.  This is McDonald’s  Hamburger University  in  China , and it
can be harder to get into than  Harvard .  Zhou’s classroom, with its gray walls and carpet, is one of
seven in the management training center occupying the 20th floor
of the 28-story building on the outskirts of Shanghai
that houses McDonald’s China headquarters. The art consists of
pictures of McDonald’s products and equipment, such as a milk-
shake maker from the 1950s.  The 1,565 square meter (16,846 square foot) facility
doesn’t have a pool or a gym and its one-room library holds
books with titles such as “Just Listen,” “Personal
Accountability” and “None Of Us Is As Good As All Of Us: How
McDonald’s Prospers By Embracing Inclusion and Diversity.”  Selection Rate  There’s a coffee machine in the corridor. There’s no
cafeteria, although students and staff can order food delivered
to the office pantry one floor down.  “I’m thrilled and proud to attend Hamburger University,”
said Zhou, who in 2007 started as a management trainee in the
central Chinese city of Changsha, a job for which she and seven
others were among 1,000 applicants. That’s a selection rate of
less than 1 percent, lower than  Harvard University ’s  record low
acceptance rate  last year of about 7 percent, according to the
school’s official newspaper.  To get to the training center, Zhou competed with 43 other
workers at her store to be made first assistant manager. She
didn’t pay any tuition; it cost McDonald’s about 10,000 yuan
($1,518) to put her through the five-day course.  The world’s biggest restaurant operator moved the training
center from  Hong Kong  last year as it expands in mainland China,
where its market share is less than half of KFC owner Yum!
Brands Inc. McDonald’s opened a record 165 restaurants in 2010
and will accelerate that growth this year to meet its goal of
1,000 new outlets in the four years through 2013.  Expansion May Accelerate  “They are preparing a base that will allow them to
accelerate that rate of expansion,” said  Peter Jankovskis , co-
chief investment officer of Oakbrook Investments LLC, which
holds about 300,000 McDonald’s shares. “They may well have
announced a conservative store opening target and their true
plan is much greater.”  The school last year trained 1,000 of the almost 70,000
employees McDonald’s has in mainland China, a region that 
doesn’t include Hong Kong, Macau or  Taiwan .  Another 4,000 people will attend classes at the training
center through 2014, said Susanna Li, the head of the training
center. The classrooms are equipped for simultaneous translation
into English, Mandarin and Cantonese to accommodate students
from Hong Kong and teachers from overseas.  “We’ll make sure the people pipeline is ready,” Li said.
“Having the school here in China helps us provide training
faster than sending students to Hong Kong.”  Trailing Yum  Total sales for fast-food chains in China rose 12 percent
last year to 60 billion yuan, according to London-based
researcher  Euromonitor International . Yum’s restaurants, which
include Pizza Huts as well as KFCs serving fried chicken
alongside Chinese dishes, accounted for 40 percent while
McDonald’s had 16 percent, the researcher said.    Oak Brook , Illinois-based McDonald’s has 1,300 stores in
China and aims to have 2,000 by 2013. Yum has 3,700 restaurants
in China, where it earned 44 percent of its $1.33 billion
operating income in the first three quarters of last year.  Yum’s market value surged 40 percent last year, compared
with McDonald’s 23 percent gain.  McDonald’s plans to increase its investment in China by 40
percent this year after boosting spending in the world’s most-
populous nation by 25 percent in 2010, it said last month,
without providing dollar figures. Sales at McDonald’s stores in
China open more than a year grew 12.7 percent in the three
months ended September, more than double the global average. In
the quarter ended December, sales growth was 5.2 percent
compared with a global average of 5 percent.  Nurturing Talent  The training center in  Shanghai  differs from those in six
other locations around the world in that it also offers senior
management courses, Li said. Running the school, which has seven
teachers, will cost McDonald’s 150 million yuan in the five
years through 2014, she said.  McDonald’s set up its first  Hamburger University  in Elk
Grove Village,  Illinois , in 1961 to train managers as well as
franchise owners.  “It’s certainly possible to move up through the
hierarchy,” said Jankovskis of Lisle, Illinois-based Oakbrook,
which manages more than $2.6 billion. “Many people do consider
fast food in general is kind of a dead end, but in the case of
McDonald’s, they have a very strong professional organization.”  McDonald’s Chief Executive Officer  Jim Skinner , who was
paid $17.6 million in 2009, started as a management trainee in
1971 after serving in the Navy, according to the company’s
 website .  Unemployed Graduates  Getting into the school is competitive because more than 26
percent of China’s 6.3 million college graduates were unemployed
as of July 1, according to the Ministry of Education. That
compares with a 4.2 percent unemployment rate for China’s urban
workforce, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Companies face rising labor costs in China, where annual
economic growth has averaged 10 percent over the past three
decades. Urban Chinese average yearly wages surged to 32,244
yuan in 2009 from 8,319 yuan in 1999.  Sun Ying, 25, started working part-time for McDonald’s in
2005 during her freshman year as a tourism management major at
East China Normal University. When she graduated in 2008, she
opted to work full-time for the hamburger chain instead of
applying for a job at a bank as her father advised.  The restaurant chain “offers many career opportunities,”
said Sun, who in April was made store manager at McDonald’s
Xinhualian store in Shanghai’s central Huaihai Road. “I’m even
happier to continue to grow with my team,” said Sun, who’s seen
the number of people she supervises grow to 55 from 45 since her
promotion.  Not Banking  McDonald’s Hamburger University in Shanghai and its
training programs are meant to address its “No. 1 challenge,”
which is to recruit and retain skilled workers, said Joel
Silverstein, president of Hong Kong-based restaurant consultants
East West Hospitality Group Ltd.  “It’s getting harder and harder to hire employees in the
food-service business,” he said. “The main reason that
McDonald’s put up the Hamburger University is to professionalize
the sector, making it easier to recruit better people.”  Sun, the store manager in Shanghai, said she’s due for more
training next month: a one-week course on “business leadership
practices.” Her next goal is to be made operations consultant,
which involves supervising a group of stores.  “Now my father has stopped trying to persuade me to work
in banking,” she said.  -  Michael Wei  and Margaret Conley in Shanghai. Editors: Frank
Longid, Bret Okeson  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Michael Wei in Beijing at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  