-- 
Vietnam Stocks Drop Most Since 2009 on Rising Inflation Concern

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-21T07:43:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-26/vietnam-s-stocks-cuchi-commercial-thien-nam-trading-import.html
  Vietnam ’s stocks tumbled the most
since November 2009 after the government said it will raise
electricity prices by a record 15.3 percent, spurring concern
the government will step up measures to curb inflation.  The Ho Chi Minh City Stock Exchange’s VN Index slumped 4
percent, the most among Asian benchmark gauges today, to 483.68
at the end of trading. The gauge’s drop was the biggest since
Nov. 26, 2009, with 253 of its 280 members falling. The
government will increase electricity prices by 15.3 percent
starting on March 1, Hoang Quoc Vuong, deputy minister of trade
and industry, said in a text message today. Vuong confirmed that
the price hike is a record for Vietnam.  The increase may fuel inflation that’s already at a 23-
month high and add to pressure for higher borrowing costs after
the central bank raised last week the refinancing rate at which
it lends to commercial banks. Four currency devaluations in 15
months and surging commodity prices have driven up the cost of
energy imports.  Increasing power prices is “a move that coupled with the
recent devaluation will surely add great pressure to an already
galloping inflation,” Michel Tosto, director for institutional
sales and brokerage at Ho Chi Minh City-based Viet Capital
Securities, wrote in an e-mail today. The market tumbled
“thanks to a toxic mix of currency devaluation, high inflation
and perceived inaction from the government,” he wrote.  Regulators devalued the dong on Feb. 11 in an attempt to
curb the trade deficit. The country posted a shortfall of $12.4
billion in 2010. Vietnam’s inflation rate reached 12.17 percent
last month, the highest level since February 2009, data from the
statistics bureau released in Hanoi on Jan. 24 show.  Credit Growth Target  The central bank raised the refinancing rate on Feb. 18 to
11 percent from 9 percent. Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung today
said he would approve lowering this year’s credit growth target
to 20 percent from 23 percent, according to online newswire
VnExpress, citing central bank Governor Nguyen Van Giau. Three
telephone calls to the governor’s mobile phone weren’t answered.  “The hike in refinancing rates, electricity prices, and a  possible increase in fuel prices, will all add more costs
to companies and affect their production,” said Hoang Thach Lan, a Ho Chi Minh City-based analyst who heads the brokerage
unit at the Mekong Housing Bank’s MHB Securities Co. “All these
show that the government has started pursuing tightening
monetary policies and that will slow economic growth.”  Bao Viet Holdings, Vietnam’s biggest insurer and the VN
Index’s biggest constituent by market capitalization, slumped
4.7 percent to 90,500 dong.  Masan Group Corp . fell 2.3 percent
to 87,000 dong. The food and financial services company is the
stock index’s third-biggest member.  Broader Policies  Vietnam needs “a broader set of policies to restore
macroeconomic stability,” Benedict Bingham, the IMF’s senior
resident representative in Vietnam said on Feb. 11.   Monetary
policy  will need to focus more decisively on containing
inflation, and fiscal policy will need to be put on a clearer
consolidation path to contain public debt.”  Moody’s Investors Service cut Vietnam’s credit rating to B1
from Ba3 on Dec. 15, citing the risk of a balance of payments
crisis and Vietnam Shipbuilding Industry Group’s “debt
distress.” The country’s largest shipbuilder, known as
Vinashin, missed a payment on a dollar-denominated  bank loan  on
Dec. 20.  “Markets need clear and strong action and we’re not
getting this at the moment,” Viet Capital’s Tosto wrote in his
e-mail today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  