-- T-Mobile Said to Show Quarterly Gain in Contract Subscribers
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-07-10T07:14:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/t-mobile-said-to-add-contract-customers-for-first-time-in-years.html
T-Mobile US Inc. (TMUS) , the fourth-largest
U.S wireless carrier, added contract customers for the first
time in three years, reaching a key milestone in its turnaround
plan, according to two people with knowledge of the situation.  The subscriber gains will be reflected in the company’s
latest quarterly results, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the data isn’t yet public. T-Mobile,
controlled by  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , is planning a press event in
 New York  today to outline its progress since completing a merger
with MetroPCS Communications Inc. in May.  The return to user growth comes six months ahead of
schedule and validates the strategy of Chief Executive Officer
and firebrand John Legere, who recast the company as an “un-carrier” last September to distinguish it from  Verizon Wireless 
and  AT&T Inc. (T)  He began selling smartphones on installment plans
-- breaking from the industry tradition of subsidizing purchases
-- while upgrading to a faster long-term evolution network and
adding  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone to T-Mobile’s lineup.  At the end of March, the company had about 20.1 million
customers T-Mobile-branded contract subscribers and 6 million
pay-as-you-go users. The last time T-Mobile added contract
subscribers was in the second quarter of 2010. T-Mobile will
mark the occasion at today’s event with appearances by celebrity
chef Ludo Lefebvre and DJ Harley Viera-Newton.  Higher Margins?  After  losing  2.1 million T-Mobile-branded contract
subscribers last year, the company is trying to rebuild its
customer base with higher-paying users, helping it return to
sales and profit growth. Any signs of improving performance may
also persuade Deutsche Telekom to hold onto the asset longer,
according to people close to the German phone company. Deutsche
Telekom Chief Financial Officer Timotheus Hoettges discussed the
idea of selling T-Mobile at a shareholder meeting in May.  Anne Marshall, a spokeswoman for Bellevue, Washington-based
T-Mobile US, and Andreas Fuchs, a spokesman for Deutsche Telekom
in Bonn, declined to comment on second-quarter subscriber
figures. Deutsche Telekom and T-Mobile are both scheduled to
release earnings on Aug. 8.  T-Mobile, which is 74 percent  owned  by Deutsche Telekom,
debuted on the New York Stock Exchange on May 1. The stock has
gained almost 50 percent since then, while shares of  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  and AT&T have fallen.  Lockup Period  The shares rose as much as 5.9 percent yesterday after
 Bloomberg News  reported the subscriber gains, and closed 3.3
percent higher at $24.09 in New York. Deutsche Telekom added 0.2
percent to 8.93 euros at 9:10 a.m. in  Frankfurt  today.  While the MetroPCS agreement prevents Deutsche Telekom from
selling the shares on the stock market for 18 months, the German
carrier has said it can choose to divest the business to a third
party before that lockup period expires.  “It looks like the turnaround is making progress,” said
Heike Pauls, an analyst at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt who has a
hold rating on Deutsche Telekom shares. “It gives them time to
hold out and not necessarily jump on the first offer that comes
their way.”  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , which lost out in bidding wars for
Sprint and  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) , contacted Deutsche Telekom
executives earlier this year to explore a potential takeover of
T-Mobile, people familiar with the matter said in April.
 SoftBank Corp. (9984) , a Japanese carrier, is slated to close its
acquisition of Sprint today.  T-Mobile’s subscriber turnaround has been helped by
promotions around the iPhone. The carrier debuted the iPhone in
April, offering it for $99 upfront followed by 24 months of $20
payments. Other carriers sell the iPhone for $199 with a two-year contract.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  