-- M&S Reports Eighth Straight Quarter of Clothes-Sales Drop
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2013-07-09T10:48:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/m-s-reports-eighth-straight-quarter-of-clothing-sales-declines.html
Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS) , the U.K.’s
largest clothing retailer, said general merchandise sales fell
for the eighth consecutive quarter, increasing pressure on the
company to have a successful autumn-winter collection.  U.K. sales at stores open at least a year in the clothing
and home division fell 1.6 percent in the 13 weeks ended June
29, the London-based retailer said. That compares to the median
estimate of 12 analysts compiled by Bloomberg for a 1 percent
decline. Sales in the food division climbed 1.8 percent on the
same basis, in line with the median analyst estimate.  Marks and Spencer  is betting on a revived autumn-winter
fashion range that comes into stores from July 25 with enhanced
quality. The first-quarter performance was impacted by a “very
difficult” April, a more stable May and highly promotional June
which it had to respond to with discounts like half-price,
Bolland said on a conference call with journalists. The company
lost some market share as a late summer weighed on sales of
casual tops and bottoms, he said.  “There is pressure on the forthcoming autumn-winter range
to make progress for M&S,” said Clive Black, an analyst at
Shore Capital. The first-quarter performance in general
merchandise “remains a disappointing, albeit in-line, figure to
our minds with M&S still losing share.”  The stock fell as much as 2.5 percent and traded 1.7
percent lower at 452.10 pence at 11:32 a.m. in London trading.
The shares have climbed 18 percent this year.  ‘Topsy-Turvy’  M&S also struggled with what the  British Retail Consortium 
has said was “topsy-turvy temperatures” in May, with a cold
end of month hurting seasonal fashions. The ad campaign for the
autumn line will start in September. The retailer has generated
53 percent of its annual revenue in the second half of the past
three fiscal years, according to  Bloomberg data .  Bolland has overseen two years of falling earnings as he
ramped up spending on store formats, clothing quality and
computer systems in an effort to boost sales. The company in May
said it will begin to reduce investment after he spent the first
three years of his tenure allocating money to try to bring the
retailer in line with rivals in areas such as online sales.  “This is a step-by step approach,” Bolland said, without
giving a timeline on when he expects the company will reach
positive same-store sales in general merchandise.  Consumer
confidence  held for the third consecutive month, he added.  Food Appetite  Demand for food items around special occasions drove gains
in the unit, Bolland told journalists. Still, Jamie Merriman, an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, said recent data points to a
“lower outperformance of the market by M&S,” with Kantar data
showing a contraction to 2.2 percent outperformance compared to
the overall U.K. grocery market.  “Given the challenging trading conditions, we remain
cautious about the outlook and continue to manage the business
tightly,” the retailer said.  Smaller competitor  Debenhams Plc (DEB)  reported a similar impact
from cooler temperatures last month with revenue weakening in
its third quarter as another period of cold weather and a tough
consumer climate reduced spending on spring and summer fashions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  