-- Abbott Cuts China Infant Formula Prices Up to 12% Amid Probe
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-09T06:53:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/abbott-cuts-china-infant-formula-prices-up-to-12-amid-probe.html
Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  will cut prices
of its main infant formula products in  China  by as much as 12
percent, the fourth foreign company to do so in a week after the
government began a probe into possible price-fixing.  Abbott will reduce prices of products including its Similac
and Pediasure-brands by 4 percent to 12 percent in China, Pamela
Harrison, a spokeswoman for the company, said via phone today.  The  Abbott Park , Illinois-based company joins  Nestle SA (NESN) ,
Danone and Dutch producer Royal FrieslandCampina NV in lowering
prices after the National Development and Reform Commission, the
country’s top economic planning agency, started a probe into
their pricing of milk powder. The investigation includes  Mead
Johnson Nutrition Co. (MJN)  and domestic firm  Biostime International
Holdings Ltd. (1112)   Guangzhou-based Biostime “may be allegedly” in breach of
anti-monopoly laws and is offering a discount of about 11
percent on its infant formula products through reward points,
starting from July 10, it said in a filing to  Hong Kong ’s stock
exchange today. The investigation is ongoing, it said. The stock
rose as much as 6.2 percent at HK$33.6 in Hong Kong trading
today, paring its decline since June 27, when it said it was
under investigation for price fixing, to about 30 percent.  The NDRC has proof the companies sold products at high
prices in China and their pricing increased about 30 percent
since 2008, the same year melamine-tainted baby formula killed
six infants, the official People’s Daily has reported.  New Zealand ’s Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd., the world’s
largest dairy exporter, also said it had been contacted by NDRC,
another sign of the nation increasing its scrutiny of overseas
company.  Danone and Nestle are cutting prices by as much as 20
percent. Zhejiang Beingmate Technology Industry & Trade Co., the
Hong Kong-listed arm of China’s second-largest baby formula
company by market share, will also reduce prices by up to 20
percent to increase its competitiveness and market share.
Beingmate hasn’t been named in the government probe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  