-- AccessKenya Sees Shareholders Accepting NTT Takeover Offer
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2013-07-09T09:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/accesskenya-sees-shareholders-accepting-ntt-takeover-offer-1-.html
AccessKenya Ltd. Chief Executive
Officer Jonathan Somen said he expects shareholders to back
 Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Corp. (9432) ’s takeover offer for the
company, based on feedback he’s received.  Dimension Data Holdings Plc, the South African unit of
Tokyo-based NTT, offered in May to buy AccessKenya for 3.05
billion shillings ($35 million). Somen’s family, which owns
about 30 percent of the stock, committed to sell its shares and
the board recommended that remaining investors accept the bid.  “The offer from Dimension Data is good for the
shareholders, and people that I have spoken to informally have
said they are happy with it and will be sending back their
acceptances,” Somen said in an interview yesterday in Nairobi,
the Kenyan capital.  AccessKenya is the only publicly traded Internet provider
in  Kenya  and the best-performing stock on the  Nairobi Securities
Exchange (NSEASI)  this year, having more than doubled. The company has
about 5,000 corporate customers linked to a fiber-optic network
that runs from Nairobi to the port city of  Mombasa .  Dimension Data, which operates in 51 countries across five
continents, said it’s acquiring AccessKenya as part of its
strategy to expand in sub-Saharan  Africa . Support from
stockholders representing 75 percent plus one share in
AccessKenya is required by the close of the offer period on Aug.
14 to complete the transaction.  Offer Premium  Trade in AccessKenya’s stock on the Nairobi Securities
Exchange was suspended at 9.55 shillings on May 6 when the offer
of 14 shillings a share was made.  Somen said he’ll remain CEO for at least two years after
the takeover is concluded, while his brother David, director of
strategy and special projects, will continue in his position for
at least one year.  “People need to understand this has been 13 years of my
life,” he said. “I have no intention of going anywhere.”  There are no plans to eliminate any of the 340 jobs at
AccessKenya, while 45 employees of Internet Solutions Ltd., a
wholly owned unit of Dimension Data, will be brought into
AccessKenya, Somen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  