-- ADT Rises Most in 8 Months on Speculation Over Ackman Stake
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2013-07-09T20:15:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/adt-rises-most-in-8-months-on-speculation-ackman-may-take-stake.html
ADT Corp. (ADT)  rose the most in more than
eight months on speculation that hedge-fund manager  William Ackman  may take a stake in the largest U.S. home security
company, said a William Blair & Co. analyst.  ADT, which was spun off from  Tyco International Ltd. (TYC)  last
year,  increased  5.2 percent to $42.02 at the close in New York,
the biggest gain since Oct. 25. Shares of the Boca Raton,
Florida-based company have dropped 9.6 percent this year.  Ackman’s Pershing Square Capital Management LP is raising
funds over the next 10 days to buy a stake in a large U.S.
company with high barriers to entry, pricing power,  cash flow 
and in a predictable business, according to a letter by the
hedge fund manager. ADT meets all those criteria, William
Blair’s  Nick Heymann  said today in an interview.  “We don’t think it’s anything related to fundamentals,”
Heymann said of ADT’s share price gain today. “It probably has
something to do with speculation in regards to this whole thing
of Ackman putting together a new single-stock fund.”  Heymann, who is based in New York, has an outperform rating
on the shares, the equivalent of a buy.  Sarah Cohn, a spokeswoman for ADT, declined to comment in
an e-mail response to questions.  ADT  shares  are cheap after they dropped from about $50 in
March amid concern that media companies will push into home
security and eat away its market, Heymann said. That’s not going
to happen very quickly because the cable companies don’t have
their own sales force, dealerships and installation teams, he
said.  “The pace at which the folks in the media world enter
residential security is probably slower than a lot of analysts
think,” Heymann said.  ADT has about 25 percent of the home market and Protection
One Inc., which is owned by private equity, is its biggest
competitor with 4 percent, Heymann said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  