-- Aereo Sued by Hearst TV Station in Boston Over Copyright
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-07-09T22:22:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/aereo-sued-by-hearst-tv-station-in-boston-over-copyright.html
Aereo Inc., the online television
service facing lawsuits by broadcast TV networks in New York for
copyright infringement, was sued in  Boston  by a Hearst-owned
television station over similar claims.  Hearst Stations Inc. said that Aereo has infringed the
copyrights of its  WCVB station  by capturing its signals and
retransmitting the programming to its subscribers without a
license, according to federal court records.  “If Aereo is permitted to profit from the unauthorized
retransmission of copyrighted television programming, WCVB will
be deprived of existing and potential revenue streams from
advertising and authorized retransmissions,” Hearst said in its
complaint.  The broadcast TV networks, including CBS Corp. and Walt
Disney Co.’s ABC, sued Aereo in New York in March 2012. U.S.
District Judge Alison Nathan rejected the networks’ motion for
an injunction that would have shut down the service, and a panel
of New York appeals judges upheld that ruling in April.
Immediately after that, Aereo announced plans to expand to
Boston and other cities.  In May Aereo sued  CBS Corp. (CBS)  in New York after published
reports said CBS might sue in Boston to try to shut down its
service there.  Aereo has filed a motion in New York to dismiss the
networks’ suits, while the networks have petitioned the full
appeals court to re-hear the arguments for an injunction.  Virginia Lam, a spokeswoman for New York-based Aereo, said
the company declines to comment on the Boston suit.  WCVB produces more than 43 hours of original local
programming a week from studios in Needham, Massachusetts,
according to the court filing. Its shows include “Chronicle”
and “On the Record.”  Hearst Stations is part of New York-based Hearst Corp.  The new case is Hearst Stations v. Aereo, 13-cv-11649, U.S.
District Court, District of  Massachusetts  (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  