-- Air Pollution Linked to Higher Risk of Heart Failure
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-07-09T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/air-pollution-linked-to-higher-risk-of-heart-failure.html
Exposure to air pollution raises the
risk of being hospitalized or dying from heart failure,
according to a review of past studies that suggests a need for
tighter regulation of exhaust fumes and other pollutants.  The danger rose by 3.5 percent with every increase of 1
part per million of carbon monoxide, and by about 2 percent for
every increase of 10 micrograms per cubic meter of particulate
matter, according to the review, published today in The Lancet
journal, of 35 previous studies.  Urban outdoor air pollution is estimated to cause 1.3
million deaths worldwide each year, according to the  World
Health Organization . While the role of pollution is well
recognized as a risk factor for heart attacks, the link to other
cardiovascular conditions such as heart failure has until now
been less clear, said  Nicholas Mills , a cardiologist at the
 University of Edinburgh  and one of the study’s authors.  “The overall evidence shows a positive association between
short-term increases in fine particles and the risk of
hospitalization and death for congestive heart failure,”
Francesco Forastiere and Nera Agabiti of the Lazio Regional
Health Service in  Rome  said in a comment accompanying the
article. The authors “provide us with important information on
the burden of air pollution on public health.”  Reducing average daily concentrations of particulate matter
by 3.9 micrograms per cubic meter would prevent about 8,000
hospitalizations for heart failure every year in the U.S.,
according to the researchers.  The review was funded by the British Heart Foundation.  Lung Cancer  Separately, an analysis of 17 studies in nine European
countries found that for every increase of 5 micrograms per
cubic meter of particulate matter smaller than 2.5 micrometers
in diameter, the risk of  lung cancer  rose by 18 percent. The
study, also published in the Lancet, was funded by the European
Community’s Seventh Framework Programme.  “Although smoking is undoubtedly a strong risk factor,
evidence for an association between air pollution exposure and
lung cancer is also accumulating,” Takashi Yorifuji of Okayama
University and Saori Kashima of Hiroshima University said in a
comment accompanying the article.  The study supports public policy aimed at reducing
particulate matter concentrations from cars and factories to
benefit public health, they said.  “Accountability studies that examined potential benefits
of air pollution interventions consistently showed that
interventions reduced air pollution concentrations and improved
health outcomes,” they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  