-- Hajj Virus Threat Spurs WHO’s Chan to Call Emergency Meeting
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-07-09T20:12:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/hajj-virus-threat-spurs-who-s-chan-to-call-emergency-meeting.html
Margaret Chan, the director-general
of the World Health Organization, said she decided to convene
the agency’s emergency committee for just the second time to
help protect travelers to the annual Hajj pilgrimage against the
coronavirus that’s killed 38 people in Saudi Arabia.  The 15-member  committee , which includes Saudi Arabia’s
deputy health minister Ziad Memish and health officials from six
other predominantly Muslim countries, met via teleconference
today to decide whether Middle East respiratory syndrome
coronavirus, or MERS-CoV, represents a public health emergency
of international concern. Chan last convened the committee to
battle the 2009 global flu pandemic. The group plans to meet
again on July 17.  “Millions of people are going to Mecca and to Medina: we
cannot stop that and we should not stop that,” Chan said in an
interview at the WHO’s headquarters in Geneva yesterday. “We
need to say that it’s OK to go, but these are the measures that
governments must take.”  The previously unknown virus has sickened 80 people and
killed 45  worldwide , according to the WHO. While most cases have
been detected in Saudi Arabia, infections in the U.K.,  France ,
 Germany  and  Italy  have sparked concern of a global outbreak like
2003’s SARS epidemic. Scientists still don’t know where the new
virus came from or how’s it’s spreading.  ‘Greatest Concern’  That prompted Chan to say at the WHO’s annual World Health
Assembly in May that the virus is her “ greatest concern .”
While the pace of new infections has slowed since then, she said
she wants to be prepared in case it returns.  “Am I still worried? The answer is yes,” she said.
“Eventually I hope the disease will burn out. But what if it
doesn’t? We should always have plan A, plan B and plan C.”  Chan, who fought SARS as director of health in Hong Kong a
decade ago, said the lessons from that outbreak may have helped
prevent MERS from becoming worse.  “We have learned from SARS: if you limit the population’s
exposure, the disease will die out on its own,” she said. “We
just hope that this is also what we are seeing. I have learned
from too many occasions in the last 40 years in public health. I
never let down my guard.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  