-- Ally Drops JPMorgan as Underwriter for Public Offering
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-07-09T19:26:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/ally-drops-jpmorgan-as-underwriter-for-public-offering.html
Ally Financial Inc., the auto lender
majority-owned by U.S. taxpayers, dropped  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
from the list of underwriters for its planned initial public
offering, saying rival banks were more committed.  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS) , Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  were listed as underwriters in
an amended filing today by Detroit-based Ally. A filing in
October included JPMorgan in addition to those five banks.  “The lineup of global coordinators is a reflection of the
investment the various banks have made in the Ally relationship
over the last year,”  Gina Proia , a spokeswoman for the auto
lender, said in an e-mail today. Tasha Pelio of New York-based
JPMorgan declined to comment.  The U.S. Treasury Department has paid lower underwriting
fees than other sellers as it exits investments in firms bailed
out during the financial crisis. Underwriting fees were less
than 1 percent for the sale of stock in firms such as General
Motors Co. and American International Group Inc., compared with
an average of more than 3 percent for additional equity
offerings in the U.S. this year and about 5.5 percent for IPOs,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The U.S. is seeking to exit its 74 percent stake in Ally
after previously getting rid of holdings in Citigroup and AIG.
Ally has sold units and worked to limit liabilities from its
bankrupt mortgage business as Chief Executive Officer  Michael Carpenter  seeks to repay a $17.2 billion bailout.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 Lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christine Harper at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harper at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  