-- Altria Owes California ‘Light’ Smokers $544 Million, Court Told
-- B y   B i l l   C a l l a h a n   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-07-10T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/altria-owes-california-light-smokers-544-million-court-told.html
Altria Group Inc. (MO) ’s Philip Morris
USA unit owes California smokers of its Marlboro Lights
cigarettes $544 million in restitution, a lawyer said at the end
of a false-advertising trial.  “Philip Morris falsely marketed and promoted low-tar/light
cigarettes as less harmful than its full-flavored counterpart,”
Mark Robinson said in closing statements yesterday in state
court in San Diego. The case was brought on behalf of California
“light” cigarette smokers from 1993 to 2001.  In the case, filed in 1997, Philip Morris and other tobacco
companies were accused of making misleading statements about the
health risks and addictiveness of smoking. Plaintiffs are
seeking restitution for money spent on cigarettes.  Philip Morris, based in Richmond,  Virginia , is the only
remaining defendant. The only claim still at issue is that it
made false statements about the cigarettes. Superior Court Judge
Ronald S. Prager is hearing the case without a jury.  Robinson said Philip Morris’s medical researchers found
that many smokers unconsciously compensated for lower tar and
nicotine in Lights by puffing harder and smoked more than those
who used regular cigarettes.  “The evidence shows that they attempted to deceive people
who were buying Marlboro Lights because these people believed
that these cigarettes were healthier when, in fact, they were
not,” the lawyer said.  Company’s Arguments  Greg Stone, an attorney for Philip Morris, said in his
closing arguments that the advertising claims made by the
cigarette maker are accurate. Holding up a pack of Marlboro
Lights, he read from the wording on the package.  “That says it all: light, low tar and nicotine,” Stone
said. “That statement is true.”  The San Diego court ruled in 2004 that the smokers’ case
couldn’t proceed as a class action because some plaintiffs
didn’t personally suffer injury or financial loss.  The  California  Supreme Court ruled in 2009 that even if the
plaintiffs didn’t meet that requirement, the group suit
shouldn’t be decertified. The court reinstated the class-action
case.  The case is In re Tobacco Cases II, JCCP 4042, California
Superior Court, San Diego County (San Diego).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Callahan in San Diego in state court in San Diego
at  Callahan@san.rr.com .
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles
at   epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 