-- Andy Murray’s Wimbledon Victory Boosts Champagne Sales
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-07-09T19:05:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/andy-murray-s-wimbledon-victory-boosts-sales-of-lanson-champagne.html
(Corrects date in fourth paragraph.)  Andy Murray’s Wimbledon success has
helped boost U.K. sales of Lanson-branded champagne as Britons
celebrated the Scottish tennis player’s victory, according to
Paul Beavis, the head of  Lanson-BCC (LAN) ’s U.K. unit.  Lanson, the official champagne of the London-based grand-slam tennis tournament, has sold “towards the top end” of the
15,000 to 20,000 bottles it expects to offload during a typical
championship fortnight, Beavis said in a phone interview
yesterday.  “There’s been a real Wimbledon fever,” he said. “As soon
as Murray won, the champagne bar got incredibly busy.”  Murray, 26, beat the world number one Novak Djokovic in
straight sets on July 7 to win his first Wimbledon title. He was
the first British man to win the singles event in 77 years.  Lanson’s U.K. sales have picked up over the past three
months after a “difficult” first quarter hit by subdued
consumer spending, Beavis said. The improvement was aided by
warmer weather, the introduction of a new White Label cuvee, and
limited-edition champagne bottles with free cooling jackets in
the style of a Wimbledon tennis shirt, he said.  “It’s not a lot better, but it is better” than last year,
Beavis said. “The good weather makes everyone go out and spend
money.” Lanson  shares  have fallen about 12 percent over the
past 12 months, compared with a 22 percent gain on the Paris CAC
40 Index.  The U.K. accounts for as much as 45 percent of Lanson
champagne’s global sales, according to Beavis. The Reims,
France-based company reported an 8.4 percent increase in first-quarter champagne revenue, it said in May. Lanson has been a
sponsor of the Wimbledon tournament for 25 years and has
extended its contract for another five years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  