-- Anglo American Platinum Workers Return to Mines After Strike
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s   a n d   A n d r e   J a n s e   v a n   V u u r e n
-- 2013-07-09T10:23:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/anglo-american-platinum-workers-return-to-two-mines-after-strike.html
Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , the
world’s biggest producer of the metal, said miners at two of its
South African operations returned to work following a strike.  “The illegal action at Thembelani and Khuseleka 1 mines in
Rustenburg has come to an end, and all employees are back at
work,” Bongeka Lwana, a spokeswoman for the Johannesburg-based
company known as Amplats, said in an e-mailed statement today.
“The situation at all our operations is normal.”  About 5,600 workers at the mines downed tools, demanding
that suspended officials from the Association of Mineworkers and
Construction Union were reinstated. The protest action came less
than a week after the AMCU refused to sign a state-sponsored
peace accord designed to avoid violent strikes after 34 people
died at  Lonmin Plc (LMI) ’s Marikana mine in a single day last year.  Amplats is planning to cut 6,000 jobs as part of an effort
to return to profit by idling three shafts and reducing annual
output by 350,000 ounces of metal. Talks with unions about the
proposal are due to end on Aug. 10.  Aside from seeking a reversal of the ban on the union
officials for joining a sit-in protest, the workers also want
planned job cuts scrapped and a guarantee that a rival union be
banished from Amplats mines, the company said yesterday.
Production was disrupted at Thembelani on the night of July 7
and at both mines during the morning and afternoon shifts
yesterday, it said.  Disciplinary Hearings  Unions and management met yesterday and agreed to lift the
suspensions of organizers at mine shafts in  South Africa , SAFM
radio reported today, citing AMCU President Joseph Mathunjwa.  The company hasn’t removed the bans on the 19 shop
stewards, it said in a separate e-mail. “Some of the
disciplinary proceedings on these cases are scheduled for
today,” it said.  Amplats climbed for a second day, adding 2.1 percent to 293
rand by 11:48 a.m. in Johannesburg.  Mathunjwa and Jimmy Gama, the AMCU’s treasurer, didn’t
answer calls to their mobile phones.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg  at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  