-- Tanker Cars in Fatal Quebec Rail Crash Had Drawn Scrutiny
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .   a n d   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-07-09T16:18:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/tanker-cars-in-fatal-quebec-rail-crash-had-drawn-scrutiny.html
U.S. and Canadian regulators have
warned for years that the type of rail tanker involved in a
fatal explosion in  Quebec  is prone to rupturing during
derailments.  Officials investigating the runaway train hauling crude oil
that crashed July 6 in Lac-Megantic, setting off a blast that
killed at least 13, said they will examine the design of the
widely used tanker rail cars.  The car, made by several manufacturers and known as
DOT-111, ruptures more often in derailments than other models,
according to regulators. The rail industry has opposed rules
proposed by agencies such as the U.S. National Transportation
Safety Board that would require retrofitting to make leaks and
fires less likely.  “During a number of accident investigations over a period
of years, the NTSB has noted that DOT-111 tank cars have a high
incidence of tank failures during accidents,” NTSB Chairman
 Deborah Hersman  said in a 2012  letter  recommending tougher
standards for the cars.  Railroad’s Record  The railroad, Montreal,  Maine  & Atlantic Railway Ltd., has
had accident rates that exceeded the national average of
commercial railroads operating in the U.S. in all except one of
the past 10 years, according to federal records.  Since 2004, it has had annual accident rates as high as
75.9 reported incidents per million train miles, according to
the U.S. Federal Railroad Administration, which collects and
reports safety statistics for all railroads that operate in the
U.S. In 2006, the year the railroad’s accident rate was 75.9,
the average for the 730 railroads that operated in the U.S. was
16.6 incidents reported per million train miles.  Since 2004,  Montreal , Maine & Atlantic has reported two
derailments of cars carrying hazardous materials, in 2006 and in
2010. Two of the cars in 2010 released hazardous materials,
according to the FRA, which didn’t specify what the substance
was.  Edward Burkhardt, president of closely held Rail World Inc.
of  Chicago , which owns Montreal, Maine & Atlantic, wasn’t
available for comment, Cathy Aldana, his assistant, said by
telephone. He will travel to Lac-Megantic later today, she said.  70 Carloads  The train in the July 6 accident was hauling more than 70
carloads of crude oil from North Dakota to a refinery in New
Brunswick. It crashed and burst into flames near the center of
Lac-Megantic, in southeastern Quebec, forcing the evacuation of
2,000 people, police said.  Thirteen people were confirmed dead as of last night and a
total of 50 were missing. Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper
said the scene resembled a “war zone” after touring the town,
250 kilometers (155 miles) east of Montreal, and 10 miles from
the U.S. border in Maine.  According to the NTSB, about 69 percent of the U.S. rail
tank car fleet are DOT-111s. Canadian Transport Minister Denis Lebel told reporters yesterday that the cars involved in the
accident make up 70 percent of the Canadian fleet.  “We’ve had a long record of advocating for further
improvements to many these 111s because they are a very common
type of tank car,” Donald Ross, the lead investigator of the
incident for the Canadian Transportation Safety Board, told
reporters at a briefing near the scene of the crash. “We
advocate for stronger cars with better accident performance
characteristics.”  Too Early  Asked if stronger rail cars could have lessened the impact
of the weekend’s explosion, he said, “It’s too early to make
that assessment.”  Keith Stewart, climate and energy campaign coordinator for
the environmental group Greenpeace  Canada  in Toronto, said the
accident would probably show that government regulations haven’t
kept pace with expanding oil and gas development in North
America.  “Up until now, the Canadian government has treated spills
from pipelines and rails as a public-relations problem, and they
need to start treating it as a safety problem,” Stewart said in
an interview.  Cherry Valley  An  NTSB  investigation into a June 2009 freight-train
derailment in Cherry Valley,  Illinois , that killed one person
concluded that flaws in the DOT-111 design probably worsened the
spill. It noted that other models of tank cars designed to carry
pressurized cargo have thicker shells and protected fittings and
were less likely to leak in accidents.  “Of the 15 derailed DOT-111 tank cars that piled up in
this accident, 13 cars lost product from head and shell breaches
or through damaged valves and fittings, or a combination of the
two,” the NTSB wrote in its recommendations. “This represents
an overall failure rate of 87 percent and illustrates the
continued inability of DOT-111 tank cars to withstand the forces
of accidents.”  The agency recommended thicker shells and other
modifications to strengthen the rail cars.  If retrofits couldn’t be done, the NTSB suggested phasing
out DOT-111 use for transporting hazardous materials. It has
cited other accidents in which the performance of the tankers
was called into question, including a 1992 derailment in
Superior,  Wisconsin ; a 2003 one in Tamaroa, Illinois; and a 2006
incident in New Brighton,  Pennsylvania .  Only Recommends  The NTSB can only recommend changes to regulations to other
agencies, such as the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety
Administration. The pipeline agency, part of the Department of
Transportation, said it was still  reviewing  the NTSB
recommendations on tank cars. There are about 45,000 of the tank
cars in use carrying ethanol and crude oil, according to the
agency. Each car carries up to 30,000 gallons of liquid.  “We need to review these regulations and maybe increase
them,” Representative Henry Waxman, a California Democrat, said
today in an interview in  Washington . “This ought to be a wake-up call.”  In 1994, 23 freight cars on a  Canadian National Railway Co. (CNR) 
train derailed northwest of Sudbury, Ontario, and three DOT-111
tank cars spilled vinyl acetate, a liquid with a high fire
hazard when exposed to heat or flame, according to the
Transportation Safety Board of Canada.  Sudbury Spill  “The susceptibility of 111A tank cars to release product
at derailment and impact is well documented,” the Canadian
safety board said in a report on the Sudbury spill. “The
transport of a variety of the most hazardous products in such
cars continues.”  In 2011, the Association of American Railroads told the
U.S. Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration that
it supported updated rules for new tank cars, though it wanted
existing ones exempt.  Patti Reilly, a spokeswoman for the association, said the
group worked with tank car manufacturers on safety improvements
to models built after October 2011 that will reduce the
probability of a spill release during a derailment by 50
percent.  It could cost more than $1 billion to make some safety
improvements to existing cars, according to the group.  $63 Million  By comparison, from 2004 through 2008, “derailments
resulted in one fatality and eleven injuries, the release of
approximately 925,000 gallons of these hazardous materials, and
cleanup costs totaling approximately $63 million,” the group
said in a March 2011 filing with the pipeline safety agency.  Richard Streeter, an attorney representing the Village of
Barrington, Illinois, said the rail group is overestimating the
cost of upgrades. Canadian National Railway runs through the
heart of Barrington, which filed a separate petition with the
U.S. Transportation Department last year asking that new and
existing tank cars be built to higher standards.  “We took the position that the new rules should also
require retrofitting,” Streeter said in an interview.
“Canadian National is building up the transportation of ethanol
and crude oil, hauling it out of Canada. Guess where they’re
going through. It’s kind of a scary proposition.”  The debate comes as U.S. oil companies are relying more on
rail lines to ship crude from places including North Dakota
where pipeline construction hasn’t kept pace with production. It
wasn’t until 2008 that producers in North Dakota began shipping
crude via railroads. Now as much as 675,000 barrels of oil a day
leaves the state by rail, according to Justin Kringstad,
director of the North Dakota Pipeline Authority, which oversees
pipeline development in the state.  North Dakota  Rail carries about 75 percent of the oil from North Dakota,
now the second biggest producer in the U.S. behind  Texas , with
pipelines accounting for the rest. The Keystone XL pipeline
proposed by  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  could carry as much as 100,000
barrels of oil a day from the state’s Bakken formation.  Montreal, Maine & Atlantic said in a statement yesterday
that the train, which was parked outside the town, was shut down
by someone after the engineer left for the evening.  This “may have resulted in the release of air brakes on
the locomotive that was holding the train in place,” the
company, a short-line carrier owned by closely held Rail World
Inc. of Chicago, said.  “Until we know what happened it’s hard to say with
certainty that there is a regulatory lapse,” Christine Tezak,
managing director of ClearView Energy Partners LLC, said in an
interview. “When you look at the phenomenal exponential growth
of oil volumes moved by rail up until Saturday, the record was
fantastic.”  A spokesman from the Railway Association of Canada, an
industry group representing 50 rail businesses including
Montreal, Maine & Atlantic Railway, didn’t return a call
yesterday seeking comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  New York  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  