-- Apple, TOM, Flynt, Freddie Mercury: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-07-09T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/apple-tom-flynt-freddie-mercury-intellectual-property.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the maker of the iPad and
iPhone, has applied for a patent on a technology that would make
earbud speakers work regardless of how deeply they are inserted
into the user’s ear.  Application  20130170656 , published in the database of the
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office July 4, covers an electronic
device and headset with speaker-seal evaluation capabilities.  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , said in the
application that poor seals between the earbud and the user’s
ear can negatively affect the quality of what the user hears.
Both noise cancellation and volume levels can be less than
satisfactory if the ear bud is inserted incorrectly.  The technology outlined in the application would include
seal quality measurements made using impedance measurements. A
current-sensing resistor would measure the current to the
speaker.  Apple applied for the patent in February 2013.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  TOM, BinckBank Infringe Euronext Trademark Rights, Court Says  The Order Machine, the Dutch alternative trading system
that is 25 percent owned by Nasdaq OMX Group Inc., infringed
NYSE Euronext trademark rights by using AEX-Index ticker
symbols, a Dutch court said.  TOM and online broker  BinckBank NV (BINCK) , based in Amsterdam,
have to remove all AEX-ticker symbols, used to indicate options
based on NYSE Euronext’s benchmark AEX-Index for Dutch stocks,
from their websites within four weeks, The Hague District Court
said in a preliminary ruling yesterday.  Euronext’s market share of index options has fallen by 30
percent since TOM and BinckBank began offering options based on
the AEX-Index on Jan. 21, the exchange owner told the judges at
a hearing, according to the ruling. TOM, whose owners include
Nasdaq, BinckBank and ABN Amro Clearing Bank, has said it
expects to take as much as 40 percent of the Dutch options
market by the end of the year.  “It is now firmly stated that the AEX-Index and its
related symbols are valid trademarks from  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  that
cannot simply be copied by third parties,” James Dunseath, a
London-based spokesman for NYSE Euronext, said in an e-mail.  The court didn’t rule on Euronext’s objections against
TOM’s use of other ticker symbols, saying there was no pressing
interest. Euronext has already filed for a case on the merits at
the court in The Hague, according to the ruling.  “It’s good news to know we can use the AEX in the product
description and that it must be removed only in the ticker
symbol,” TOM Chief Executive Officer Willem Meijer said by
telephone. “We have four weeks to adjust our ticker symbols and
are investigating now the IT impact for our customers.”  TOM and BinckBank have to put a notice on their website
saying there is no trading in NYSE Liffe (Euronext) options
based on the AEX on TOM’s platform, and that these options are
not tradeable via BinckBank or its Alex unit, the court said.
They will have to pay 25,000 euros ($32,167) for each day they
fail to meet the court’s order, to a maximum of 1 million euros.  ‘Hustler’ Publisher Larry Flynt Says Younger Brother Infringes  Publisher  Larry Flynt  sued his younger brother for
trademark infringement.  According to the complaint filed July 3 in federal court in
 Fort Myers ,  Florida , Jimmy R. Flynt and his Jimmy Flynt Sexy
Gifts-Naples LLC are accused of infringing trademarks belonging
to his older brother.  Larry Flynt, publisher of the adult magazine “ Hustler ,”
objects to his brother’s use of the Flynt name on his shop,
which sells sexually oriented merchandise. He said in court
papers that his dispute with his brother and other members of
his brother’s family is ongoing and that he has successfully
filed trademark suits against his relatives in the past.  He said “despite two prior court decisions prohibiting
Jimmy and his sons from using the Flynt marks, Jimmy has
willfully and deliberately infringed” by promoting a new
Florida store as “Flynt Sexy Gifts” without using his full
name of any disclaimer.  Jimmy Flynt is accused of trying to piggyback his business
ventures on the fame and goodwill associated with his brother’s
trademarks. His actions have tarnished the Flynt trademarks,
Larry Flynt said in the complaint.  He seeks a court order barring his younger brother’s use of
the Flynt name in connection with the sale or distribution of
adult-themed goods, and for the destruction of all infringing
products and promotional material. Larry Flynt also asked for
awards of attorney fees, litigation costs, and money damages,
and asked that the damages award be tripled and extra damages
added to punish Jimmy Flynt for his actions.  Jimmy Flynt didn’t respond immediately to an e-mail sent
through his Flyntsexygifts.com website seeking comment.  The case is Larry C. Flynt v. Jimmy Flynt Sexy Gifts-Naples
LLC, 2:13-cv-00493-JES-UAM, U.S. District Court, Middle District
of Florida (Fort Myers).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Freddy Mercury Gorilla Removed From U.K. Art Trail  A gorilla sculpture that is part of a public art trail in
the U.K.’s Norwich was removed following a complaint from the
estate of the late  Freddy Mercury  that the gorilla’s painted-on
suit infringed a copyright, the  BBC   reported .  Mik Richardson, an artist from Norfolk who painted the
gorilla, said he didn’t exactly copy the late performer’s suit,
and altered it enough “so that it’s fan art,” according to the
BBC.  The art trail has 53 life-sized and 67 baby gorillas, all
painted by local artists and displayed on the streets as the
“ Go Go Gorillas ” art trail, the BBC reported.  Event organizers told the BBC they were disappointed that
the gorilla was removed as it was one of the most popular, and
had hoped to reap the benefit of the statue’s popularity when
all the gorillas are auctioned off to benefit several charities.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Solar Cell Researcher Enters Plea in Chinese Trade Secrets Case  A researcher for an unnamed  Pennsylvania  company has
pleaded guilty to  wire fraud  related to trade secrets for the
production of lead-free glass for solar cells.  According to a statement from the U.S. Attorney for the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania, Tung Pham, 48, pleaded guilty
to wire fraud charges and agreed that the court could take into
consideration the trade-secret theft charges when calculating
his sentence.  Pham researched the manufacturing of lead-free glass for
solar cells for a company identified as Company A. He was
accused of transferring information about his research to a
startup Chinese company where he planned to work in the future.  The wire fraud charges flow from a series of e-mails
between Pham and his future employer involving the creation of a
fake employment contract he could use to show Company A and be
released from his non-compete agreement, the government said in
its statement.  At the July 2 hearing at which he entered his plea, Phan
said for the record that he hadn’t shared any company
information.  The sentencing hearing for Phan is set for Nov. 6. He faces
a potential maximum sentence of 140 years in prison.  The case is U.S. v. Tung Pham, 2:11-cv-00722-AB, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  Spying Accusations Shadow U.S. Cybersecurity Talks With China  The first meeting of a U.S.- China  cybersecurity group in
 Washington  yesterday came amid accusations that the Chinese
government is responsible for hacking American companies and
disclosures that the U.S. conducts broad international spying
operations.  The U.S.-China cyberworking group allows civilian and
military officials from both nations to discuss international
rules for cyberspace, raise concerns and set the tone for future
bilateral talks, said a State Department official who wasn’t
authorized to speak on the record.  The official made no mention of whether American and
Chinese officials would discuss former U.S. National Security
Agency contractor Edward Snowden, whose revelations about NSA
spying programs last month have overshadowed U.S. claims that
China is waging a cyber-espionage campaign.  Chinese officials have demanded an explanation for
Snowden’s allegation that the U.S. has hacked computers in  Hong
Kong  and mainland China since 2009.  U.S. representatives at the meeting will raise issues such
as “cyber-enabled theft of  intellectual property , trade secrets
and confidential business information for economic gain,”
Pentagon spokesman  George Little  told reporters.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration has decided to
confront China with accusations that it is behind a campaign to
hack into U.S. agencies and corporations to steal trade secrets
and potentially disrupt  computer networks  operating banks, power
grids and telecommunications networks.  Secretary of State  John Kerry  and State Councilor Yang
Jiechi announced formation of the cyber working group in April
as part of the larger strategic security dialogue the two
countries hold every year.  The group is seen as an important mechanism in the broader
effort to build cooperation and manage key differences between
the U.S. and China, the State Department official said. issues.  The Pentagon in May accused the Chinese military for the
first time of intruding into U.S. computers to steal sensitive
data. Army General Keith Alexander, who heads the NSA and U.S.
Cyber Command, has called the hacking of U.S. trade secrets the
greatest transfer of wealth in history.  China maintains that it’s a victim of hacking and opposes
such activities.  Exxon Claiming Pegasus Pipeline Inspection Data Is Trade Secret  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  asked the federal agency that regulates
oil and gas pipelines not to release inspection data to Arkansas
officials on a pipeline that ruptured in March, dumping Canadian
oil sands and bitumen in a neighborhood near  Little Rock , the
Dallas Business Journal  reported .  The Irving, Texas-based oil company is claiming the data is
a trade secret and has asked the Pipeline and Hazardous
Materials Safety Administration not to release it, according to
the publication.  The 22-foot rupture was on the Pegasus Pipeline, which
carries tar sands oil to refineries in Nederland,  Texas , the
publication reported.  Carl Weimer , executive director of the watchdog group
 Pipeline Safety Trust , said companies usually are reluctant to
release this information to regulatory agencies, according to
the Journal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 