-- Treasuries Drop on Fed Minutes as Oil Jumps on Supplies
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-07-10T20:12:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/asian-stock-futures-ignore-u-s-gains-on-imf-crude-jumps.html
Treasuries dropped for the first
time in three days as Federal Reserve meeting minutes failed to
lower speculation that the central bank will reduce its
stimulus efforts this year. U.S. stocks closed little changed,
while oil reached the highest since March 2012.  Ten-year  Treasury yields  added 4.5 basis points to 2.68
percent while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index closed up less
than 0.1 percent after swinging between gains and losses
following the 2 p.m. release of the minutes. The  Dollar Index 
lost 0.6 percent to 84.04, retreating from the highest level
since July 2010. Oil jumped 2.9 percent to $106.52 a barrel
after U.S. inventories tumbled for a second week.  Minutes from the Fed’s June meeting showed that “several
members judged that a reduction in asset purchases would likely
soon be warranted.” Still, “many members” of the policy-setting committee want to see further improvement in the labor
market before reducing $85 billion in monthly asset purchases,
the minutes showed. Concern the Fed will begin tapering its
purchases led to a 5.8 percent drop in the  S&P 500  from May 21
to June 24 and sent 10-year Treasury yields to a two-year high.  “The Fed is going to taper at some point,” said Paul Montaquila, fixed-income investment officer with BNP Paribas
SA’s Bank of the West and BNP Paribas Securities Corp. “The
buying is going to stop at some point. Rates will not be heading
back to dramatic historical lows from here. Clearly that’s baked
into this market.”  Dollar, Stocks  Thirty-year Treasuries also declined, sending yields up
four basis points to 3.69 percent. Two-year yields were little
changed at 0.37 percent. Government debt initially erased losses
after the minutes. Yields rose earlier as the U.S. sale of $21
billion in 10-year notes produced the highest yield since July
2011.  The Fed’s June meeting was before the Labor Department’s
employment report for that month exceeded expectations, with the
economy adding 195,000 jobs and the  unemployment rate  unchanged
at 7.6 percent.   The dollar weakened against 11 of 16 major peers, losing
0.8 percent to $1.2885 versus the euro. The yen rallied against
all 16 major peers on speculation the  Bank of Japan  will not add
to stimulus efforts when it announces its policy decision
tomorrow. The BOJ will leave its bond-buying program unchanged,
according to all 20 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Among stocks moving in the U.S., Hewlett-Packard Co. rose
1.8 percent after Citigroup Inc. advised investors to buy the
stock. Family Dollar Stores Inc. added 7.1 percent as the
retailer’s earnings topped estimates.  Earnings Season  The S&P 500 has risen for five straight days, and closed
today about 1 percent below its record high, amid optimism about
the second-quarter earnings season. Yum! Brands Inc. reports
earnings today, while JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Wells Fargo & Co .
are among companies releasing results this week. Analysts
forecast that profits at financial companies increased 17
percent in the second quarter to lead a 1.8 percent growth in
S&P 500 earnings, according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The U.S. benchmark has recovered following a 4.8 percent
drop from June 19 to 24, triggered when Bernanke said the
central bank may reduce its $85 billion of monthly bond-buying
this year and end the program in 2014 as economic risks subside.
The index is up 16 percent for the year.  European Markets  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index closed up less than 0.1 percent
at its highest level in a month.  Burberry Group Plc (BURBY)  jumped 4.8
percent after the U.K.’s largest luxury-goods maker posted
retail sales for its fiscal first quarter that exceeded
analysts’ estimates. Mining companies retreated, with Anglo
American Plc and Rio Tinto Group down about 1 percent each.  Italian bonds fell, pushing the 10-year yield four basis
points higher to 4.45 percent, after S&P cut the nation’s credit
rating. The FTSE MIB Index of Italian stocks lost 0.7 percent.  S&P yesterday cut Italy’s long-term credit rating to BBB,
two levels above junk, from BBB+, citing expectations for a
weakening in economic prospects and the nation’s impaired
financial system. The outlook on the rating remains negative,
the New York-based ratings company said in a statement.  Asian stocks pared gains after  China ’s exports and imports
unexpectedly contracted in June.  About five stocks rose for every four that  fell  in the MSCI
Asia-Pacific Index, which advanced 0.8 percent. The Shanghai
Composite Index jumped 2.2 percent, gaining the most in almost
four months, on speculation the government will take measures to
support economic growth. There’s some speculation about a cut in
the reserve-requirement ratio, said  Wang Zheng , Shanghai-based
chief investment officer at Jingxi Investment Management Co.,
which manages $120 million.  China Data  Data today showed China’s exports fell 3.1 percent in June
from a year earlier, compared with the median estimate of a 3.7
percent gain in a Bloomberg News survey. Imports declined 0.7
percent after a 0.3 percent drop in May.  China’s economy 
probably expanded 7.5 percent in the three months ended June 30,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey
before data due July 15. That’s down from 7.7 percent in the
first quarter and 7.9 percent in the last three months of 2012.  The S&P GSCI advanced 1.1 percent to the highest in three
months as nickel and gasoline jumped at least 2.4 percent to
lead gains. Oil rallied after U.S. supplies tumbled for a second
week as refinery operating rates increased, boosting speculation
that a glut in the central part of the country is dissipating.  Japan ’s Topix declined from a seven-week high as the yen
strengthened against all its 16 major peers. Thirteen of 20
economists in a Bloomberg News survey completed July 8 saw no
extra loosening by the BOJ in the next six months, a reversal
from a poll in May.  BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda and his fellow policy makers
will discuss strengthening their assessment of the nation’s
economy by using the word “recover” for the first time in more
than two years, according to people familiar with the central
bank’s discussions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in  New York  at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  