-- AstraZeneca Signs Cambridge-Based Cancer Research Deals
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2013-07-09T08:40:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/astrazeneca-signs-cambridge-based-cancer-research-deals.html
AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  is pursuing three
research projects with the University of Cambridge and Cancer
Research UK to try to identify changes in tumor cells and test
combinations of its drugs to better treat some cancer patients.  The U.K.’s second-biggest drugmaker, which is relocating to
Cambridge,  England , from  London , will work with  Cancer Research
UK Cambridge Institute  and the University of Cambridge
Department of Oncology on a new technology that measures tumor
DNA circulating in the blood and can identify the presence of
cancer in plasma. The test can detect whether cancer is
progressing and treatment is working. Doctors now use biopsies
or imaging to monitor progression of the disease and whether the
patient is responding to treatment.  The agreement supports Chief Executive Officer Pascal Soriot’s plan to use acquisitions, partnerships and the
company’s own research to replace revenue lost to patent
expirations. AstraZeneca can use the information to design
medicines as the test can determine new genetic alterations to
target, said Carl Barrett, vice president of translational
science in AstraZeneca’s Oncology Innovative Medicines unit.  “This would be a more rapid way to show this drug is
working or not working,” Barrett said in an interview. “The
sooner we know whether a drug is working or not, the better it
is for the patient.”  AstraZeneca rose 0.9 percent to 3,272.5 pence at 9:39 a.m.
in London, giving it a market value of 41 billion pounds ($61.1
billion).  Prostate Cancer  The company and  Cancer Research  UK Cambridge Institute will
work with Addenbrooke’s Hospital and  Cambridge University
Hospitals  to test AstraZeneca’s experimental cancer treatment
olaparib in combination with another therapy called AZD2014 to
treat advanced prostate cancer patients with a poor prognosis.
Olaparib, which prevents cancer cells from repairing themselves,
has been shown to benefit patients with the BRCA mutations. The
combination therapy may help patients without the mutation
respond to the treatment.  AstraZeneca will team up with the  Babraham Institute  in
Cambridge and its Cancer Research UK and Cambridge University
partners to develop new therapies for patients with pancreatic
cancer. Patients diagnosed with this type of cancer often don’t
have long to live and there are few treatments available,
Barrett said. The program will test the company’s experimental
treatment selumetinib in combination with other therapies in
laboratory models, Barrett said.  In the last year, AstraZeneca has joined up with Bind
Therapeutics, Moderna Therapeutics Inc.,  Regulus Therapeutics
Inc. (RGLS)  and  Isis Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ISIS)  It has also announced
the purchases of Pearl Therapeutics Inc. and  Omthera
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (OMTH)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in London at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  