-- Tata Motors to Make Indonesia Hub for Exports to Southeast Asia
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a   a n d   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2013-07-09T17:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/tata-motors-to-make-indonesia-hub-for-exports-to-southeast-asia.html
Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT)  will make Indonesia
a hub to export vehicles to Southeast Asia as the country is set
to overtake  Thailand  as the region’s biggest car market.  Tata Motors, which plans to start sales in Indonesia in two
months, aims to sell enough vehicles in the country to make a
local assembly factory feasible, Biswadev Sengupta, chief
executive officer of the Indonesian unit, said in an interview
with Bloomberg TV Indonesia July 8. The volumes would also help
boost content of locally made components to 40 percent, a level
that is required to sell to members of the  Association of
Southeast Asian Nations , or Asean, at zero duty, he said.  India ’s largest automaker is entering Indonesia as the
country is set to become  Southeast Asia ’s biggest car market in
2014, according to IHS Automotive. Most of the region’s 600
million people -- the combined population of the U.S., Germany
and Brazil -- will be middle class by 2020, and that will boost
consumer demand, according to Bain & Co.  “Indonesia can act as beachhead for Tata’s Asean
strategy,” Ammar Master, an analyst at LMC Automotive based in
Bangkok, said. “And allow the automaker to expand volumes
beyond its home market.”  Tata Motors’ sales at home have plunged every month since
November. Passenger vehicle deliveries at the Mumbai-based
automaker fell 32 percent in June to 11,804 vehicles.  Shares of Tata Motors have declined 7.5 percent this year,
compared with a 0.1 percent increase in the benchmark S&P BSE
Sensex. The automaker’s stock rose 0.5 percent to close at
289.10 rupees in Mumbai yesterday.  Toyota Competition  The Indian automaker will have to compete with  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) , whose joint venture with PT Astra International controls
about half of Indonesia’s market. Domestic vehicle sales in May
rose 4.2 percent from a year earlier to 99,568 units, Astra said
last month, citing data from the nation’s automotive industries
association.  Tata Motors aims to make Indonesia its biggest market
outside of India and will invest to achieve that target,
Sengupta said without explaining whether he meant market size by
revenue or volume. The initial focus will be on selling vehicles
on the islands of Java and Bali, he said.  Over the next two months the company plans to open as many
as seven dealerships and increase that number to 15 by March, he
said. Tata Motors expects to sell enough vehicles in  Indonesia 
in three to four years to justify starting an assembly line, he
said.  The company will target Indonesia’s small car and pick-up
van segments, Sengupta said. It will also sell passenger buses
and mining related vehicles, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net ;
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  