-- Aussie Holds Biggest Gain in Week on Speculation Drop Too Quick
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d
-- 2013-07-09T00:06:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/aussie-holds-biggest-gain-in-week-on-speculation-drop-too-quick.html
Australia ’s dollar held its biggest
gain in a week against the greenback amid speculation the South
Pacific currency may have fallen too fast.  The Aussie rebounded yesterday from near its lowest in
three years. Traders increased bets last week that it will
weaken further to a record. Declines in New Zealand’s kiwi
dollar were limited after  business confidence  rose to the
highest in almost four years. A survey of Australian business
confidence is also due today.  “A lot of people were looking at 90 U.S. cents as a real
break level in Aussie, and the fact that we couldn’t get through
told the market a little about demand for new selling,” said
Sam Tuck, a senior foreign-exchange manager at ANZ Bank  New
Zealand  Ltd. in Auckland. “That was enough to give people
pause, with the aim to attempt lower later, when there are
further reasons.”  The Australian dollar was little changed at 91.21 U.S.
cents at 9:56 a.m. in Sydney from yesterday, when it gained 0.7
percent, the most since July 1. It touched 90.37 on July 3, the
lowest since September 2010. New Zealand’s currency fell 0.2
percent to 77.88 U.S. cents.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a decline in the Australian dollar
compared with those on a gain -- so-called  net shorts  -- was a
record 70,515 on July 2, figures from the Washington-based
Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  New Zealand  business confidence  rose in the second quarter
to the highest since the period ended September 2009. The  New
Zealand Institute of Economic Research ’s poll climbed to 32,
from 23 in the first three months of the year.  National Australia Bank Ltd. releases its monthly survey of
business confidence today. The gauge improved to -1 in May from
the month before.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  