-- Aussie Resumes Climb Amid Speculation Bets on Declines Overdone
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d
-- 2013-07-09T07:57:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/aussie-dollar-falls-versus-peers-before-business-confidence-poll.html
Australia ’s dollar advanced for a
second day against the greenback amid speculation bets against
the currency were excessive.  The Aussie erased a 0.6 percent loss as rallying Asian
stocks revived demand for higher-yielding assets after reports
on Chinese inflation and Australian business conditions had
pushed the currency lower. The local dollar touched a three-year
low last week as trades against it reached a record. New
Zealand’s kiwi gained after the nation’s business confidence
rose to the highest in almost four years.  “The Aussie is such an obvious trade that the market gets
skewed the same way,” said Greg Matwejev, the director of FX
hedge fund sales at Newedge Group SA in Hong Kong. “Any short
squeeze at the moment has scope potentially to go up towards 92
and a half-plus U.S. cents.” A short position is a bet that a
currency will decline.  The Australian dollar gained 0.5 percent to 91.77 U.S.
cents as of 5:43 p.m. in Sydney from yesterday, when it climbed
0.7 percent, the most since July 1. It touched 90.37 on July 3,
the lowest since September 2010. New Zealand’s currency jumped
0.8 percent to 78.60 U.S. cents.  The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of stocks rallied 1.6 percent.  The Australian dollar has tumbled 9.4 percent in the past
three months, the worst performer among 10 developed nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  The difference in the number of wagers by hedge funds and
other large speculators on a decline in the Australian dollar
compared with those on a gain -- so-called  net shorts  -- was a
record 70,515 on July 2, figures from the Washington-based
Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  Earlier Loss  Australia’s dollar earlier slid to as low as 90.83 U.S.
cents after a gauge of  business conditions  slumped to the least
since May 2009. The National Australia Bank Ltd. survey sank to
minus 8 in June from minus 4 the month before.  The currency had also been pushed lower after a government
report showed  China ’s  consumer price index  rose 2.7 percent in
June from a year earlier. The median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey of economists was for a 2.5 percent increase. China
is Australia’s largest trading partner.  “The higher China inflation suggests less likelihood the
People’s Bank of China will provide monetary policy support,”
said  Joseph Capurso , a Sydney-based currency strategist at
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia. (CBA)  “The market has marked down
demand for Australian exports to China, and pushed down the
Aussie.”  Easing Bets  Swaps data compiled by Bloomberg show traders see a 54
percent chance the Reserve Bank of Australia will cut its
benchmark rate to an unprecedented 2.5 percent at its next
meeting on Aug. 6. The probability was 45 percent yesterday. The
key  rate  already stands at a record low of 2.75 percent.  Australia’s inflation-linked bonds indicate scope for more
easing after having underperformed the broader sovereign-debt
market for four months, the longest run in 16 years.  Bonds that protect against rising costs fell 4.5 percent
from March through June, while securities without adjustable
payouts were little changed, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes. The last time so-called linkers trailed
for so long was in 1997.  “The forces are in place for Aussie to trend lower,” said
 Kieran Davies , chief economist at Barclays Plc in Sydney. For
the Australian economy, “it’s hard to see any upside in the
next six months to a year,” he said.  In New Zealand,  business confidence  rose in the second
quarter to the highest since the period ended September 2009.
The New Zealand Institute of Economic Research’s poll climbed to
32 from 23 in the first three months of the year.  Finance Minister Bill English told parliament today that
the budget deficit may be NZ$5.5 billion ($4.3 billion) in the
year ending last month, NZ$2 billion narrower than forecast in
the 2012 budget.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  