-- Aussie Reaches One-Week High on Bets Drop Overdone
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d
-- 2013-07-10T06:45:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/aussie-holds-biggest-2-day-gain-in-month-before-china-trade-data.html
Australia ’s dollar touched its
highest level in a week amid speculation its recent decline has
been excessive.  The Aussie recovered from an earlier loss that had been
fueled by concern that trade is slowing with  China , its biggest
export destination. The currency touched a three-year low on
July 3 as traders’ bets on a drop reached a record.  New
Zealand ’s kiwi dollar was supported after the finance minister
said it’s certain the nation’s  interest rates  will rise.  “Everybody who’s got a bearish view on Aussie dollar has
already put their money where their mouth is,” said Ray Attrill, the Sydney-based global co-head of currency strategy at
NAB. “Positioning looks to be extreme.”  The Australian currency rose 0.3 percent to 91.98 U.S.
cents as of 4:42 p.m. in Sydney from yesterday, and touched
92.18, the most since July 2. The kiwi advanced 0.1 percent to
78.62 U.S. cents, after falling as much as 0.3 percent and
rising 0.4 percent.  The Aussie has tumbled 9.5 percent in the past three
months, the worst performer among 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The kiwi slid
4.4 percent.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a decline in the Australian dollar
compared with those on a gain -- so-called  net shorts  -- was a
record 70,515 on July 2, figures from the Washington-based
Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  The Aussie fell as much as 0.5 percent earlier after
Chinese data showed  imports  contracted 0.7 percent in June from
a year earlier. The median estimate of economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News  was for a 6 percent increase.  China Slowing  “While everyone does accept that China is slowing, there
still seems to be shock value when China data disappoints,”
said  Annette Beacher , Singapore-based head of Asia-Pacific
research at TD Securities. “Aussie pretty much fell out of
bed.”  The  International Monetary Fund  projected China’s growth
will be 7.8 percent in 2013, down from an 8 percent April
projection, it said yesterday as it trimmed its prediction for
the global economy for a fifth-consecutive time.  “As long as this steady balance between slowing the
contribution of investment to growth occurs in a steady way,
it’s still very strong growth,” Rupa Duttagupta, a deputy chief
in the world economic studies division of the IMF, said today on
Bloomberg Television.  Swaps data compiled by Bloomberg show traders see a 60
percent chance the central bank will lower its benchmark rate to
an unprecedented 2.5 percent at its next meeting on Aug. 6, from
an already record low of 2.75 percent.  Debt Demand  A measure of demand at an auction of A$700 million ($642
million) in Australian government debt fell to the lowest since
Nov. 30, 2011. The bid-to-cover ratio for the 3.25 percent notes
due April 2029 slid to 1.54, according to the Australian Office
of Financial Management. The ratio was 3.04 at the last sale of
2029 debt on June 19. The yield on Australia’s benchmark 10-year
government bond dipped four basis points, or 0.04 percentage
point, to 3.84 percent.  Demand for New Zealand’s dollar was buoyed after Finance
Minister  Bill English  said the nation’s borrowing costs “are
going to go up, it’s just a matter of when.”  “One of the risks to New Zealand is being the first
developed country to lift interest rates,” English said at an
event in Wellington. Investors would be attracted to New
Zealand’s relatively higher yields “and we’d end up with an
 exchange rate  going too high,” he said.  The  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand has kept its  benchmark
interest rate  at a record-low 2.5 percent since March 2011 to
help speed an economic recovery.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  