-- Maxim Magazine Said to Fetch Bids of About $20 Million
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-07-09T23:22:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/maxim-magazine-said-to-fetch-bids-of-about-20-million.html
Maxim magazine , the bawdy men’s title
that went up for sale in March, is seeing some bids of about $20
million, less than a 10th of the price its owners paid six years
ago, according to people familiar with the situation.  Maxim publisher Alpha Media Group Inc., controlled by
creditor Cerberus Capital Management LP, is expected to lose
between $3 million and $5 million this year, according to the
people, who asked not to be named because the matter is
confidential.  The magazine’s owners are seeing yearly revenue declines as
Maxim, once a leading men’s title, contends with an industrywide
slump in marketing dollars. Advertisers and readers have shifted
their attentions toward digital venues, where ad rates are
cheaper and the content largely free.  Maxim’s annual ad sales dropped 18 percent to  $112 million 
last year, compared with a 2.9 percent slide among magazines as
a whole, according to the Publisher’s Information Bureau. In the
first three months of this year, Maxim saw a 45 percent decline
from a year earlier to  $13.1 million .  The owners have continued to cut costs and are trying to
contain losses within the range of a few million dollars,
according to the people familiar with the company’s finances. A
number of companies made qualifying initial bids, with second-round offers due July 15, these people said.  ‘Highly Engaged’  Competition from the Internet has hurt magazine
advertising, and Maxim hasn’t fully capitalized on the growing
digital audience.  “Maxim does not comment on rumor or speculation, but we
can confirm that Maxim is in discussions with a strong group of
highly engaged, potential buyers,” Publisher Benjamin Madden
said in an e-mailed statement.  Felix Dennis, the British publishing impresario, founded
Maxim in 1995 and introduced it to U.S. audiences a few years
later, luring in readers with the tagline “Sex Sports Beer
Gadgets Clothes Fitness.” Its immediate success kicked off a
wave of similarly themed titles and prompted U.S. men’s
magazines to adjust their editorial voices to follow suit.  Dennis sold Maxim, along with sister titles Blender and
Stuff, for $250 million in a leveraged buyout by an investment
group led by Quadrangle Capital Partners LP in 2007, just before
the recession gutted the magazine industry’s profits as it faced
a steep drop in the ad market. The owners have since closed down
Stuff and Blender.  Stopped Payments  In 2009, Quadrangle stopped payments on about $160 million
of loans used to buy the magazine company, leaving creditors,
led by Cerberus, as its new owners, according to one of the
people.  Peter Duda , a spokesman with firm  Weber Shandwick  that
represents Cerberus, declined to comment.  Maxim published 11 times last year and has an average
circulation of 2.5 million, according to the Alliance for
Audited Media. While it’s still one of the largest men’s
magazines by circulation, it saw a 22 percent drop in ad pages
to 392 last year, compared with a year earlier, according to
Publisher’s Information Bureau.  Conde Nast ’s GQ, another men’s
title, saw a 3.5 percent drop in ad pages to 1,183, according to
the bureau.  The U.S. magazine industry has increasingly struggled to
find buyers for once-vaunted publications. Billionaire  Barry
Diller  said earlier this year that he regretted buying  Newsweek 
in 2010 and is now exploring a sale of the publication. Time
Warner Inc., meanwhile, is spinning off its magazine division
after a failed deal with Meredith Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  