-- Bank of Ireland Wins EU Battle to Keep $1 Billion Life Unit
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-07-09T11:42:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/bank-of-ireland-wins-eu-battle-to-keep-1-billion-life-unit.html
Bank of Ireland Plc  won a campaign to
keep its life assurance unit, after the European Union accepted
an alternative plan to exit business and corporate banking in
the U.K. mainland with the sale of 4.6 billion euros ($5.9
billion) of loans.  Ireland’s largest lender by assets must also quit its ICS
Building Society mortgage distribution platform, including as
much as 1 billion euros of loans and deposits, to avoid a three-year-old EU order to sell New Ireland Assurance Co. Plc as a
condition for the bank’s then 3.8 billion-euro state bailout.  A sale of the life business, which has $1 billion of net
assets, “would negatively affect BoI’s capital and capacity to
return to profitability and that would slow down progress toward
long-term viability,” the Brussels-based European Commission
said in a statement on its website.  Bank of Ireland (BKIR)  Chief Executive Officer Richie Boucher has
repeatedly said he was a reluctant seller of the life company,
the nation’s second-largest with a 24 percent market share, as
he seeks to return the lender to profit. The bank has posted
losses since 2009 amid soaring bad loans following the collapse
of the nation’s real-estate market.  The commission said today that the sale this year of the
country’s largest life assurer, Irish Life Group Ltd., “has
affected the number of potential buyers of New Ireland Insurance
Co., increasing the likelihood of selling it with losses.”  Irish Life  Great-West Lifeco Inc. (GWO) ,  Canada ’s second-largest insurer,
said last month it was close to completing its 1.3 billion-euro
purchase of Irish Life, which has a 33 percent market share.  Today’s EU decision is “not something we’d expected,”
said Colm Foley, an analyst with Dublin-based securities firm
Goodbody Stockbrokers, which rates the stock a buy. “I don’t
think the bank would have put up such a fight to keep it if they
didn’t see it as beneficial in the long-term to retain it.”  New Ireland Assurance’s operating profit rose 8 percent to
79 million euros last year, mainly as a result of lower
expenses, according to Bank of Ireland’s annual report.  Bank of Ireland fell 0.6 percent to 16.5 euro cents in
Dublin trading at 12:29 p.m.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Brennan at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  