-- BET Founder Sees Business ‘Rooney Rule’ Adding Minorities
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-07-10T06:27:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/bet-s-johnson-wants-minorities-interviewed-for-all-senior-jobs.html
Robert Johnson , the first black
billionaire in the U.S., said corporations should copy a
National Football League policy designed to address inequality
and interview minorities for every senior job.  Johnson, the founder of Black Entertainment Television,
told reporters yesterday that the voluntary measure would be
similar to the NFL’s  Rooney Rule , which requires franchise
owners to consider members of minority groups for senior posts.  “My take on affirmative action is that it is absolutely
necessary because there’s a wide disparity between African
Americans and white Americans,” said Johnson, 67.
“Unemployment is  double  for African Americans, the wealth gap
approaches $90,000. We’ve got to resolve that by providing more
jobs or opportunities.”  The longtime media executive spoke to the press at the
Allen & Co. conference in  Sun Valley ,  Idaho , an annual gathering
of executives from media, technology, finance, government and
industry. Johnson sold his BET Holdings LLC to  Viacom Inc. (VIAB)  in
2001 for $2.35 billion. He was the first black person to list a
company on the  New York  Stock Exchange.  The issue of race can’t be separated from economic
inequality, Johnson said, adding members of minority groups need
to catch up in terms of access to capital and jobs.  The 10-year-old Rooney Rule, named after Pittsburgh
Steelers owner Dan Rooney, is designed to ensure minority
coaches are considered for promotions. It requires owners to
interview at least one minority candidate for each head coach or
general manager opening, according to the league’s website.  2012 Turnover  Ian Rapoport, a reporter for the  NFL.com  and NFL Network,
said in January that eight coaches and seven general managers
lost their jobs after the 2012 season, and none were replaced by
a person of color.  Among companies in the Fortune 500, six are led by blacks,
according to Diversity Inc., a consultant. They include Kenneth I. Chenault at American Express Co., Kenneth C. Frazier at Merck
& Co. and Ursula Burns at Xerox Corp.  “The concept that there are not people out there who are
‘qualified’ is a complete misconception,” said J. Veronica
Biggins, an Atlanta-based managing director at executive
recruiter Diversified Search, which specializes in placing
minority candidates. “For every one you can throw out there, I
can come up with someone who more than met the qualifications.”  Leaders’ Role  A commitment from company leaders is needed to increase the
hiring of minorities and women, said Diversified Search’s
Biggins, who is a board member at Southwest Airlines and was the
director of Presidential Personnel for  Bill Clinton .  “Leadership from the top brings about change,’’ Biggins
said. “If a CEO were to say to his company, ‘I want us to be
very serious about this and I don’t want to look around and see
people who look like me every day’ –- I’m referencing the
majority of the CEOs who are white -- I bet it would bring about
change.”  Johnson is founder and chairman of RLJ Cos., with interests
in entertainment, real estate and investing. His companies,
including publicly traded RLJ Entertainment Inc. and  RLJ Lodging
Trust (RLJ) , follow policies similar to the Rooney rule.  “I think that same philosophy should go to corporate
America,” Johnson said. “I think it would increase minority
employment and we could do it without passing any laws.”  RLJ Entertainment (RLJE) , based in Bethesda,  Maryland , closed
unchanged at $4.95 yesterday in New York. The stock has declined
1 percent this year. Johnson controls about 41 percent of the
stock, according to a company filing. RLJ Lodging Trust rose 1.8
percent to $23.32 and has gained 20 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  