-- OGX Must Sign With Brazil’s ANP Before Selling Licenses
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   K a r e n   E e u w e n s
-- 2013-07-09T15:34:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/billionaire-batista-s-ogx-in-talks-to-sell-oil-license-stakes.html
OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3) ,
the worst-performing oil producer in the Americas this year,
will have to sign contracts with Brazil’s oil regulator before
going ahead with a plan to sell stakes in licenses, the chief
regulator said.  OGX hasn’t informed the regulatory agency, known as ANP,
about plans to sell shareholdings in 10 licenses awarded in an
auction in May, Magda Chambriard said today in an interview in
London. Rio de Janeiro-based OGX “is in talks over the blocks
it won without partners,” the company said in a regulatory
filing yesterday after markets closed.  OGX, controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista , could be left
with as little as $13 million cash by the end of the year,
Credit Suisse AG said July 2, a day after the company announced
it may shut its only producing oil field next year and said
three others aren’t commercially viable. OGX’s shares have lost
89 percent this year, the most among more than 250 producers in
the Americas worth at least $100 million tracked by Bloomberg.  In the May auction, OGX won 10 licenses to operate blocks
and three others in partnership with Exxon Mobil Corp.,  Total SA (FP) 
and  QGEP Participacoes SA. (QGEP3)  The company must pay the ANP 377
million reais ($167 million) in so-called bid bonuses for the
licenses it acquired in May.  ANP won’t investigate OGX’s previous production targets
because they weren’t submitted to the oil regulator, Chambriard
said. OGX said in company presentations as recently as early
2012 that it planned to reach production of 1.38 million barrels
a day in 2019. Those projections were withdrawn after output at
the Tubarao Azul field missed expectations.  ‘Good Job’  OGX did a good job exploring in  Brazil  where it has drilled
more than 100 wells and was the first company to produce oil
from licenses sold in 2007, she said.  The securities regulator, known as CVM, is probing
information released by OGX, MPX Energia SA, MMX Mineracao &
Metalicos SA and CCX Carvao da Colombia SA as well as specific
releases by some of Batista’s companies, including LLX Logistica
SA, according to the CVM’s website. OSX Brasil SA, Batista’s
shipbuilder, is the only one of the billionaire’s companies not
being investigated by the securities regulator.  Press officials for MPX, MMX, OGX, CCX and LLX declined to
comment on the regulatory probes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Karen Eeuwens in  London  at 
 keeuwens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  