-- Black Caucus Meets With Obama for First Time in Two Years
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-07-09T19:35:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/black-caucus-meets-with-obama-for-first-time-in-two-years.html
Members of the Congressional Black
Caucus met with President  Barack Obama  for the first time in
more than two years and the lack of more frequent meetings
didn’t come up, the group’s chairwoman said.  “I don’t have a concern,” Representative Marcia Fudge, an
Ohio Democrat, told reporters after the private White House
meeting that lasted about one and one-half hours. “We will have
broader and deeper discussions as a result of our meeting
today.”  The 43-member group’s agenda included  voting rights ,
education, implementing the Affordable Care Act, and a request
for people from Africa and Caribbean nations to be included in
pending immigration legislation.  It was the first meeting between Obama and the black caucus
since the  Supreme Court  last month cut a core part of the 1965
Voting Rights Act that opened the polls to millions of southern
blacks. The top court on June 25 voided the voting-rights law’s
formula for determining which states must get federal approval
before changing their election rules.  Lawmakers said they are working with the  Justice Department 
to find a way to revise the formula.  Representative  James Clyburn , a South Carolina Democrat,
said lawmakers urged Obama to push to target more federal
programs to “communities of need.”  Clyburn said a special formula used in the $831 billion
economic stimulus program in 2009 should have wider application.  10 Percent  He said 10 percent of a program’s funds should be devoted
to 20 percent of a community if it has been below the poverty
level for the past 30 years. The rule should apply to programs
including education, extension of broadband Internet services
and rural water and sewer improvement programs, he said.  Obama was receptive to the idea, Clyburn said.  The meeting was a chance for Obama to renew ties with
leaders of one of his most solid constituencies. African-American voters supported Obama with 95 percent of their votes
in the 2008 election and 93 percent in 2012, according to  New
York  Times exit polls.  The president plans to meet tomorrow with the Congressional
Hispanic Caucus to discuss immigration, according to a statement
from caucus chairman Representative Ruben Hinojosa, a Texas
Democrat.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  