-- Blackstone Treasure Hunt Under Way for German Tankers: Freight
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   B r a u t l e c h t
-- 2013-07-09T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/blackstone-treasure-hunt-under-way-for-german-tankers-freight.html
The decline of German private
investor funding for ships and the exit of domestic banks from
ship financing are opening a door to U.S. private-equity firms,
which have begun to enter a market previously closed to
international asset managers.  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , J.P. Morgan Asset Management,  Oaktree
Capital Group LLC (OAK) , Tennenbaum Capital Partners LLC and Delos
Shipping are among firms buying new and used German vessels and
taking stakes in German shipping companies that need financial
backing. They are replacing mostly private investors that for
decades participated as limited partners in German ships.  Last year alone, investors lost about 2.3 billion euros
($2.96 billion) of equity as the number of insolvencies by
shipping companies surged in the crisis-hit industry, according
to estimates by Hamburg researcher  Fondsmedia . Decisions by
 Commerzbank AG (CBK)  and HSH Nordbank AG to exit or scale down ship
financing as bad loans taint balance sheets makes it worse.  “In the past, shipping companies were reluctant to make
deals with foreign lenders, but this is changing
significantly,” said Claus Brandt, a shipping analyst at
PricewaterhouseCoopers AG in Hamburg. “I expect foreign
investors to have the biggest market share in three to five
years.”  Before the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. sent
the industry into turmoil in 2008, German shipping companies had
the support of domestic lenders and private investors when
buying new ships and covering cost to maintain existing ones.  Nine Ships  Even now, domestic investors and lenders provide 90 percent
of the capital borrowed by  Germany ’s mostly small- and medium-sized shipping firms, which on average own nine vessels,
according to the VDR ship owners association.  “About 3,000 vessels are financed by banks and private
investors in Germany, so this is the size of the market we are
looking at,” said Brian Ladin, the founder of  Delos Shipping .
The Dallas-based company in May  took over  80 percent of Hamburg-based shipping group Koenig & Cie.  A partner in the transaction was  Tennenbaum , a Santa Monica,
California-based firm that since its founding in 1999 has
 invested  more than $11 billion in about 250 companies with one
focus being the transportation and logistics industries.  Germany’s merchant fleet, which comprises 3,700 ships, is
the third-biggest in the world with a 9.4 percent share of the
market. That includes the biggest fleet of container ships, with
almost one in three vessels German-owned, according to VDR,
based in Hamburg.  Return Rate  Private-equity firms typically pool money from pension
plans and endowments with a mandate to buy companies within five
to six years, then sell them and return the money and a profit
after 10 years. The firms usually charge a management fee and
keep a portion of the profits from investments.  According to analyst Brandt, foreign investors can expect
an annual return rate of about 10 percent if they sell ships at
the right time.  For Delos’s Ladin, the key to success is not being confined
to a schedule. At a previous firm, he was the lead investor in a
$21-million investment in shipping group  Euroseas Ltd. (ESEA)  before
its initial share sale on the  Nasdaq  in 2007. Planning on
getting in and out in two to three years is a mistake, he said.  “An investment time horizon has to at least be in sync
with a shipping cycle from peak to trough, which usually takes
eight to 10 years,” he said in a phone interview. “Depending
on the vessel type, the last peak was between 2006 and 2008, and
we are somewhere in the trough right now.”  Building Ships  Delos and Tennenbaum recapitalized Koenig to buy new and
used vessels on the market, Ladin said. Koenig’s managing
directors, Tobias Koenig and Jens Mahnke, together still hold
the remaining 20 percent stake. They will stay on to manage the
assets, which are valued at 4.2 billion euros, according to the
company’s website.  Oaktree, the world’s largest distressed-debt investor, made
a different type of investment with Rickmers Group,
commissioning the Hamburg-based company to supervise the
construction of eight new container ships, with an option for
eight more.  The first ships have entered the construction phase,
Sebastian Bucher, a spokesman for  Rickmers , said on June 26.  Under the agreement, announced in December, the German firm
with a 179-year shipping tradition will also technically and
commercially manage the vessels with a capacity of 5,000 to
7,000 standard containers, or TEU, Bucher said.  Bond Issue  The carriers, scheduled for delivery from the middle of
next year to the middle of 2015, will cost $45 million to $50
million each, according to estimates by Rickmers, which in June
also sold 175 million euros in five-year notes to service debt
and maintain its vessels.  Michael Behrendt, president of the VDR shipping association,
indicated traditional, family-owned firms may be loath to open
up their books or give up control over strategic decisions even
after financing deals are sealed.  “It is impossible to predict how private equity firms will
behave,” Behrendt told reporters in Hamburg on June 14. He is
also chief executive officer of Hapag-Lloyd AG, Germany’s
biggest shipping company. “Their business is very different
from the traditional ship-owners’ model.”  “For private equity firms, it might be a smart move to
dive into the market during the crisis, but we don’t need new
ships before supply and demand reach a balance, which we expect
between 2014 and 2015,” he said.  Retreating Banks  The container shipping industry is suffering from a glut
after a boom in ship deliveries coincided with the worst slump
in freight demand since the 1970s. Vessel supply exceeds demand
by about 30 percent and much of the boxed freight being shipped
is unprofitable, according to Bagsvaerd, Denmark-based BIMCO,
the world’s biggest international shipping association.  Commerzbank, which had been the world’s second-biggest
financier of ships with the 2009 acquisition of Dresdner Bank,
decided a year ago to exit ship financing as it suffers from the
bad debt it holds from the industry. Norddeutsche Landesbank
Girozentrale and Nordbank, the world’s largest shipping lender,
are also scaling down portfolios.  To plug the financing gap in Germany some U.S. investors
are focusing on the container shipping fleet while others are
looking at specialized cargo ships or tankers.  Blackstone, the world’s largest manager of alternative
assets, in August took over the controlling stakes in nine
refined-product tankers from Hartmann AG with the technical and
commercial management staying with the Leer, Germany-based
company.  Marriage Simile  “It’s like a marriage -- it’s not easy to find the right
partner,” said CEO Niels Hartmann in an e-mailed statement,
adding that it took several months of negotiations to seal the
partnership.  “Blackstone is an interesting partner, as they have
realistic expectations,” said Hartmann. “The time frame of the
investment is rather long-term,” he said, referring to yield
and a ship’s usual life cycle of about 25 years.  New York-based Blackstone spokeswoman Christine Anderson
declined to comment.  Institutional investors advised by J.P. Morgan Asset
Management - Global Real Assets operate a joint venture with
family-owned Harren & Partner Group, which holds and manages 54
vessels from its base in the city of Bremen, southwest of
Hamburg.  Their alliance, called Sumo-Shipping, was founded in
February 2012. It invests in a fleet of vessels with cranes that
can lift more than 500 tons.  “Both partners remain committed to the project”, Nicholas E. Meer, executive director at JPMorgan Asset Management
Maritime Group in  London , said in an e-mail on June 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Brautlecht in Hamburg at 
 nbrautlecht@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  