-- Blitzstein’s ’37 Greed Screed ‘Cradle’ Works Today: Stage
-- B y   J a m e s   T a r m y
-- 2013-07-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/blitzstein-s-37-greed-screed-cradle-works-today-stage.html
Sam Gold, one of the most in-demand stage directors working today, opens City Center’s new
 Encores! Off-Center  series tomorrow with a five-performance run
of Marc Blitzstein’s 1937 agitprop pop opera, “The Cradle Will
Rock.”  Hollywood these days may be infatuated with stories about
 Wall Street  corruption and greed, but for the theater, it’s been
a long-term romance. “Cradle” is about a showdown between Mr.
Mister, the owner of a steel factory, and Larry Foreman, an
idealistic organizer determined to unionize the workers.  Funded by the New Deal-era Works Projects Administration
and staged by  Orson Welles , the politically explosive show was
shut down during the final days of rehearsal. On opening night,
600 audience members were redirected to an abandoned theater
where the cast performed from their seats in the audience,
Blitzstein accompanying on piano.  I spoke with Gold in a rehearsal room during a planning
break with choreographer Chase Brock. Wearing navy blue slacks,
gray New Balance sneakers and a T-shirt, he sported fashionable
scruff and unkempt, curly hair.  Tarmy: So much of the narrative about this piece is tied to
its original production.  Gold: It’s a great story, and it became theater lore, but I
want people to come to City Center to see “The Cradle Will
Rock,” not the show that the story is about.  Why Now?  Tarmy: Why revisit this piece, now?  Gold: Jeanine Tesori, the artistic director of this
program, wanted to inaugurate the new series with it. I’ve been
thinking a lot about my civic responsibility as a young artist.
Who pays my bills, what my rights are, what I’m responsible to
as an artist.  Tarmy: Who does pay your bills?  Gold: Mostly nonprofit theaters. They have a certain
structure for how the work gets paid for and how they pay the
artist, and I’ve been thinking a lot about what it means to make
my work for a subscriber audience, what it means to make my work
for mostly corporate and individually funded nonprofits, and
what my relationship is to civic responsibility.  Tarmy: Would you say you’re a responsible citizen?  Union Organizer  Gold: My grandmother-in-law was a union organizer and a
communist. She died last month and in her will she said to her
family, “No one in the generation of my grandchildren is
political, and no one fights for the causes we were fighting
for. I still believe the revolution is coming, and you’re not
fighting for it...I’m still going to leave you my estate. But I
want you to know I’m disappointed.”  Tarmy: She never expressed disappointment while she was
alive?  Gold: Oh, she said it all the time. It was just amazing
reading it in her will. To see her in her 90s at  Occupy Wall
Street  -- she was in her 90s with more stamina to stand out
there with a sign than I was. I just bought a co-op in Park
Slope.  Tarmy: Can theater be a political tool anymore?  Gold: In the abstract the answer has to be “yes.” Theater
has to be political. Do I see a lot of theater artists in my
community really engaging in overt political or social change?
Not my particular community. Certainly not my work.  Tarmy: This play is close to 80 years old. How do you make
it appeal to a more contemporary audience?  Social Change  Gold: It was written to hit you over the head over and over
and over again, until it stops being appealing and you gain a
critical distance in which to think about the issues. So my goal
would be not to make it more palatable to a contemporary
audience, but to honor the spirit of the artists who were trying
to effect political and social change. I believe in a didactic
theater. I believe in propaganda.  Tarmy: How does that affect your casting choices?  Gold: I like to work with people over and over again,
because you develop a vocabulary together. And it’s nice if they
can also sing the songs, too. Because if they sing it badly you
can kind of write it off.  Tarmy: Today, so much theater is considered entertainment,
escapism.  Gold: I’d like people to think about labor, the disparity
of wealth and corporate greed. These are very much issues in our
national conversation right now. When any good director does an
old play, it has to relate to our moment. Theater is live and in
the present.  “The Cradle Will Rock” runs July 10-13 at City Center, 131
W. 55th St. Information: +1-212-581-1212;
 http://www.nycitycenter.org .  (James Tarmy writes for Muse, the arts and culture section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include Jeffrey Burke on  books  and  Warwick
Thompson  on London theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
James Tarmy in  New York :  Jtarmy@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 