-- Blumenthal to Serve Liquid-Nitrogen Cocktails in City
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2013-07-09T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/blumenthal-to-serve-liquid-nitrogen-cocktails-in-city.html
Heston Blumenthal  plans to bring his
experimental cuisine to the  City of London , serving bankers and
traders liquid-nitrogen cocktails as well as dishes from his
restaurants.  Blumenthal has teamed with  Rhubarb , the U.K. company that
has been awarded the contract to cater events at  20 Fenchurch
Street , a 37-story building that opens in the City next year.  The chef, who holds three Michelin stars at the Fat Duck
and one at Dinner by Heston Blumenthal, in the Mandarin Oriental
Hotel, will offer historically inspired creations such as
meatfruit -- a chicken-liver parfait that looks like a mandarin
orange -- and rice & flesh, an English saffron risotto.  “We’ve been getting more and more requests for events,”
Blumenthal said in an interview on July 8. He joked he was “not
a control freak at all,” yet it was “really important to team
up with a company that we knew.”  For the cocktails, the drinks are mixed with whipped egg
and squeezed onto a spoon that is dipped into liquid nitrogen.
This creates a thin shell. When you place the concoction in your
mouth, it explodes, with a burst of flavor. Varieties include
Campari soda, and gin & tonic.  “ London ’s has just transformed,” he said. “Ten years
ago, you wouldn’t think about the City as being a hub of
gastronomy. But there are so many places that have opened up now
that I’d say there’s a lot of healthy competition. It’s no
different from serving food in the  West End .”  Sky Garden  Blumenthal won’t be involved in the restaurants and bars
that Rhubarb will create atop the building, which is scheduled
for completion next April. The Sky Garden space, where
Blumenthal was speaking during a hard-hat site visit, offers
uninterrupted 360-degree views of the capital.  On Level 35, Sky Garden Bar will be open all day -- for
breakfast, lunch and afternoon tea -- before turning into a
Champagne bar with canapes and cocktails in the evening.  Darwin Brasserie will occupy Level 36, serving an
international menu inspired by the travels of  Charles Darwin .
Level 37 will be home to the Fenchurch Seafood Bar & Grill. The
restaurants may open just over a year from now.  Blumenthal and his team will work with Rhubarb on special
events in the space, which features gardens designed by
architects  Gillespies  and installed by  Willerby Landscapes .  “The relationship means that Heston and his development
team work exclusively with Rhubarb on a variety of both
technical and creative aspects of Rhubarb’s events,” the
company said in a release. There will be four events areas, with
capacity ranging from 20 to 250 guests. Planners may hire the
entire Sky Garden, including the restaurants.  Vinoly Design  The building, 20 Fenchurch Street, was designed by New
York-based  Rafael Vinoly Architects . Recent projects include the
Cleveland Museum of Art, Battersea Power Station Master Plan,
Carrasco (Montevideo) International Airport and Edward M.
Kennedy Institute for the Senate. Vinoly was born in  Uruguay .  As of June 2013, 56 percent of the building’s space was
let, according to joint-venture partners  Land Securities Group
Plc (LAND)  and  Canary Wharf Group Plc. (SBD)  The first letting was with
 Markel (MKL) , followed by Kiln Group and Royal & Sun Alliance. Other
tenants include Liberty Syndicate Management Ltd. and Liberty
Mutual Insurance Europe Ltd., the partners said.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Catherine Hickley  on German art,
 Ryan Sutton  in  New York  restaurants,  Greg Evans  on TV and
 Stephanie Green’s  Scene in D.C.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London on 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 