-- LBO France Said to Seek Groupe Poult Bids by End July
-- B y   J u l i e   M i e c a m p ,   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   K i e l   P o r t e r
-- 2013-07-09T09:59:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/lbo-france-said-to-seek-groupe-poult-bids-by-end-july.html
LBO  France  is seeking offers for its
private-label biscuit manufacturer Groupe Poult, people familiar
with the process said. Bids are due by the end of the month, one
of the people said.  LBO France, a Paris-based private-equity firm, is working
with Rothschild, the people said. The biscuit maker may be
valued at seven to eight times earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, said one of the people, who asked
not to be identified because the plans are private. At the
higher end of the forecast’s multiple range, the company would
be valued at about 320 million euros ($412 million).  The company is forecasting about 40 million euros in Ebitda 
this year and about 240 million euros of revenue, two of the 
people said.  Poult, based in Montauban, France, sent marketing material
to prospective buyers within the last two weeks, three of the
people said. The deal may draw interest from private equity and
trade buyers, one of them said.  LBO France acquired Groupe Poult in 2006, according to the
private-equity firm’s website. Poult was for sale in 2010 as it
sought to complete a separate acquisition in  Poland , one of the
people said. That process was put on hold, the person said. Last
year, LBO France was in talks to sell 30 percent of Poult to its
competitor the Bouvard group, French media such as Agefi
reported at the time.  Emile Poult, who founded one of the companies that would
merge to form Groupe Poult, made his  first biscuit  in 1883 at
Montauban.  Representatives of LBO France and Rothschild declined to
comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Miecamp in London at 
 jmiecamp@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Kiel Porter in London at 
 kporter17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  