-- BOJ Easing Forecasts Cut as Japan Gains on Kuroda Salvo: Economy
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2013-07-10T08:51:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/boj-easing-forecasts-cut-as-japan-strengthens-after-kuroda-salvo.html
Economists are ditching forecasts
for the  Bank of Japan  to further expand its record easing this
year amid signs that a recovering economy may spur inflation.  Thirteen of 20 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
completed July 8 saw no extra loosening in the next six months,
a reversal from a poll in May. The board will leave the scale of
its bond purchases unchanged at the two-day meeting starting
today, according to every economist polled in the latest survey.  Governor  Haruhiko Kuroda  spurned extra steps to limit bond-market volatility in June, convincing more analysts and
investors he will refrain from stepping up stimulus following
his opening salvo in April. Forecasts due at the end of this
week’s policy meeting will give the board’s latest view on how
quickly he and Prime Minister Shinzo Abe can push the nation
toward a 2 percent inflation goal.  “The BOJ is very reluctant to take any small steps,” said
 Yoshiki Shinke , chief economist at Dai-ichi Life Research
Institute. “They are going to hold firm for a while unless
something really big happens that forces them to change their
price outlook.”  Prices, excluding the effect of a planned sales tax
increase, will rise 1.9 percent in the year starting April 2015,
according to the median estimate of the bank’s nine-member
policy board in April.  China Exports  An unexpected slide in  China ’s June exports reported today
highlighted the risk that weakness in the world economy will
weigh on  Japan ’s recovery. The International Monetary Fund
yesterday pared its global growth forecast for 2013 to 3.1
percent from an April estimate of 3.3 percent.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index initially pared gains after the
release of the Chinese data, which echoed a German report this
week showing a decline in May exports. Shares later resumed
their climb, with the gauge up 0.9 percent as of 5:34 p.m. in
 Tokyo  ahead of the release of minutes from the most recent
meeting of the U.S. Federal Reserve.  In Japan, reports in the past two weeks showed better-than-expected  industrial production  and retail sales, and large
manufacturers turning optimistic for the first time in two
years. The economy grew 2.9 percent in the April-June quarter,
according to economist forecasts, after the  biggest jump  in a
year in the previous three months.  Abe is trying to put the nation on a sustainable growth
path through his so-called three arrows of Abenomics -- monetary
and fiscal stimulus, and lowering barriers for investment and
hiring. In January, the government announced a 10.3 trillion yen
($102 billion) stimulus package.  Looming Election  Abe’s delay in implementing plans to loosen business rules
helped extend a slide in stocks from a  near-five-year high  in
May. A forecast victory for the ruling Liberal Democratic Party-led coalition in an upper-house election on July 21 would help
Abe push through his agenda. The grouping is set to exceed the
121-seat threshold needed for a majority in the chamber,
according to a survey published by Yomiuri newspaper this week.  “The economy is proving Kuroda right,” said  Takeshi Minami , chief economist at Norinchukin Research Institute Co. in
Tokyo. “This is the first time in a while that the BOJ doesn’t
have to boost stimulus because the economy is moving in line
with their expectations”  Picking Up  A  six-month slide  in prices excluding fresh food ended in
May, while BNP Paribas SA and Dai-ichi Life Research Institute
expect a report this month to show the first rise in those costs
since April last year.  “While Japan’s economy is picking up, uncertainties are
still high” regarding overseas economies, said Maiko Noguchi,
senior economist at Daiwa Securities Co. and a former central
bank official. The outlook for China and the U.S. Federal
Reserve’s exit strategy are murky, said Noguchi, who sees more
easing in April.  The yield on benchmark 10-year bonds tripled from a low of
0.315 percent to as high as 1 percent after Kuroda’s first
meeting three months ago.  Historical price volatility  of debt
maturing in more than a year has fallen to 2.9 percent from 4.7
percent on May 14, the highest since 2003, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies.  Kuroda showed his resolve not to pander to markets by
abstaining from action in June to calm bond markets, said
 Masamichi Adachi , senior economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in
Tokyo. Twenty of 23 analysts in June expected the BOJ to take
steps ease credit-market volatility that month.  JPMorgan now expects the bank to ease in January, after
previously forecasting extra stimulus in October. “We changed
our view because of signs of inflation and Kuroda’s
determination to avoid incremental steps,” said Adachi, a
former BOJ official.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  