-- Bonds Beat Loans to Take Record Share of Europe Company Funding
-- B y   V e r i t y   R a t c l i f f e
-- 2013-07-09T08:17:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/bonds-beat-loans-to-take-record-share-of-europe-company-funding.html
European companies favored bonds over
loans this year by the biggest proportion as banks reduce
lending, according to Fitch Ratings.  Of the 495 billion euros ($638 billion) companies borrowed
in the first six months, 52 percent was raised through bond
sales compared with an average 36 percent of total annual debt
financing in the past five years, the ratings company said in a
report, citing data from Dealogic. Bank loans, which totaled
238 billion euros, are poised to reach less than 500 billion
euros for the full year for the first time in a decade, the data
show.  Banks have tightened lending as they seek to meet tougher
 capital requirements  imposed by global regulators after the
financial crisis. European companies turned to bond markets for
funding as central banks kept  interest rates  near record lows.  Companies have struggled to obtain loans in the post-economic crisis, which has resulted in a “structural shift”
toward bond financing, Monica Insoll, managing director for
credit market research at Fitch Ratings, said in a phone
interview.  The average yield investors demand to hold company bonds in
euros fell to a record 1.72 percent on May 17, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch’s Euro Corporate Index. It has since
climbed to 2.15 percent.  Fitch expects European companies to continue choosing bonds
instead of loans in the next six months, even as the U.S.
Federal Reserve considers scaling back stimulus measures.  “On the one hand, there are negative pressures,” said
Insoll. “The Fed will start raising rates. But on the other
hand, there aren’t that many alternatives out there so bonds
will continue to be used.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Verity Ratcliffe in London at 
 vratcliffe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  