-- Britvic Reiterates Lack of Interest in A.G. Barr Tie-Up
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-07-09T07:55:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/britvic-reiterates-lack-of-interest-in-a-g-barr-tie-up.html
Britvic Plc (BVIC)  reiterated that combining
with A.G. Barr Plc is unlikely, even as the potential partner
said it would “actively” look at reviving a deal after a U.K.
regulator cleared the soft-drink makers’ abandoned merger plan.  Britvic’s “performance has improved, the merger benefits
are materially less than they were, and our share price is
almost twice the level it was,” Chairman Gerald Corbett said
today in a statement. “Britvic’s prospects as a stand-alone
company are bright.”  Britvic, the  Hemel Hempstead , England-based maker of
Robinsons Barley Water, and Irn-Bru producer A.G. Barr agreed to
merge last November. The transaction was scrapped after the U.K.
Office of Fair Trading referred it to the  Competition Commission 
on concerns it might lead to price increases. The commission,
following preliminary clearance on June 11, approved the merger
today, saying it wouldn’t hurt competition.  “There are enough synergies left to warrant a deal but
clearly the terms are going to have to change to get it to go
ahead, with the ownership levels likely to be the main point of
change,” Phil Carroll, an analyst at Shore Capital in London,
wrote today. “If pushed, we ultimately believe a deal will be
agreed but clearly there is a significant chance that it may
also not happen,” he said, saying Britvic would be the
“company with more to gain to get the deal to happen.”  ‘Positive Step’  A.G. Barr, based in Cumbernauld,  Scotland , said today in a
statement that the commission’s announcement was a “positive
step” and will “actively reconsider” a deal.  Britvic  rose  as much as 0.8 percent to 524.5 pence and was
trading up 0.5 percent at 8:44 a.m. in London, valuing the
company at 1.28 billion pounds ($1.91 billion). A.G. Barr  fell 
as much as 2.2 percent to 520 pence for a market value of 607.2
million pounds.  A.G. Barr’s board “will review all material new
developments since the original merger terms were agreed but
currently believes that, other than Britvic’s recently announced
short-term cost saving plan, little has changed,” the company
said. The merger poses “a unique opportunity for value creation
for both sets of shareholders in the short, medium and long
term.”  A.G. Barr must announce a firm intention to make an offer
for Britvic by 5 p.m. in  London  on July 30, the U.K. takeover
panel said today.  Savings Target  Since scrapping the merger, Britvic has appointed a new
CEO, Simon Litherland, and it announced cost-cutting plans May
22 targeted at savings of 30 million pounds ($44.9 million) a
year starting in 2016. The reorganization proposal sent
Britvic’s shares up the most in more than eight months and
spurred investor speculation that the company may have given up
on the A.G. Barr transaction.  Combining Britvic and A.G. Barr would create a business
with sales of about 1.5 billion pounds.  Under the original proposal, Britvic shareholders would
have owned 63 percent of the combined company. The merged
drinkmaker would have been led by A.G. Barr Chief Executive
Officer Roger White, with John Gibney, Britvic’s chief financial
officer, retaining the role at the merged group. The combination
would have created cost and revenue benefits of 40 million
pounds a year by 2016, the companies estimated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  