-- Bulgarian Court Rejects Borissov’s Bid to Annul Elections
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2013-07-09T14:16:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/bulgarian-court-rejects-borissov-s-bid-to-annul-elections.html
Bulgaria’s Constitutional Court
rejected a bid by the former ruling Gerb party of Boyko Borissov
to declare the nation’s May 12 elections invalid.  The Sofia, Bulgaria-based court gave no further details on
its ruling, which was published on its  website  today. Gerb,
which fell short of an outright majority and wasn’t able to form
a Cabinet, asked the Constitutional Court on May 22 to annul the
ballot because its rivals alleged vote fraud a day before polls
opened.  The government of Prime Minister Plamen Oresharski, backed
by the Socialists and the Movement of Rights and Freedoms, took
office on May 29 after anti-austerity protests forced out
Borissov. The appointment of media and business executive Delyan Peevski as head of the State Agency for National Security
sparked nationwide demonstrations last month, forcing Peevski to
resign.  Protests have since escalated into anti-government marches
demanding a new political system that would penalize links
between politicians and criminal groups. The marches, which
block most of the capital, are set to continue this evening,
with protesters chanting slogans such as “Mafia out.”  Oresharski, a former finance minister, has said he won’t
resign because doing so would further destabilize the country.
He plans to revise this year’s budget to increase spending on
social benefits and speed up valued-added tax reimbursements and
outstanding payments to companies for services such as
construction.  Gerb lawmakers aren’t attending parliament sessions, saying
they will return only to discuss revisions of a voting law and
work on early elections.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  