-- Campus Crest Buys Canada Hotel in First Outside-U.S. Deal
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2013-07-09T10:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/campus-crest-buys-canada-hotel-in-first-outside-u-s-deal.html
Campus Crest Communities Inc. (CCG) , a
publicly traded owner of U.S. college housing, made its first
international acquisition by buying a  Montreal  property for
conversion into a residential tower for students.  In a joint venture with private-equity firm Beaumont
Partners SA, Campus Crest acquired the  Delta Centre-Ville  hotel
in downtown Montreal for about $60 million, Chief Executive
Officer Ted W. Rollins said.  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
Campus Crest will have a 20 percent stake in the partnership,
which expects to get financing later this year for the
redevelopment.  “The numbers are very compelling,” Rollins said in a
telephone interview. “There are 80,000 students within walking
distance to the property.”  The 33-story property has 711 hotel rooms and is close to
 McGill University , Concordia University and Ecole de Technologie
Superieure, Rollins said. Redeveloped as student housing, the
property may have as many as 1,300 beds as well as a library,
study rooms and a conference center for university-sponsored
events. The conversion is scheduled for completion by the start
of the 2014-15 school year.  The tower will be managed by Campus Crest. The Montreal
property, along with a 33-story Philadelphia building the
company is developing through a joint venture, will be part of a
new urban brand of student housing that Campus Crest plans to
announce within a few months, Rollins said.  The urban portfolio will be the second new brand announced
by the firm this year. Earlier this year, Campus Crest acquired
a stake in Copper Beech Townhome Communities LLC, a portfolio of
35 student-housing properties. The deal started Campus Crest’s
townhouse brand of residences, Rollins said.  Campus Crest is the smallest by market capitalization of
the three publicly traded U.S. companies that own student
housing, with an ownership interest in 84 properties with more
than 44,002 beds across the country. Its  shares  have fallen 3.7
percent this year, closing at $11.81 yesterday in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  