-- Canada Dollar Gains Second Day as Earnings Bolster Risk Demand
-- B y   J e f f   M a r s h a l l   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-07-09T21:13:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/canada-dollar-rallies-second-day-as-earnings-bolster-risk-demand.html
The Canadian dollar rose for a second
day amid optimism corporate profits will top forecasts and a
report showed June housing starts exceeded analysts’ estimates.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, strengthened as
stocks rose and crude oil,  Canada ’s biggest export, traded at
almost its highest level in 14 months before data forecast to
show U.S. crude supplies fell for a second week. Canada’s
currency briefly erased gains versus the U.S. dollar and
extended an advance against the 17-nation euro after report that
a European Central Bank officials indicated more loans may be
issued to ease the region’s financial crisis.  “People are looking for excuses to add some risk to their
portfolios,” said  Dean Popplewell , head analyst in Toronto at
the online currency-trading firm Oanda Corp. “The loonie in the
last 24 hours came up against some strong support levels.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, rose 0.3 percent to
C$1.0527 per U.S. dollar at 5:03 p.m. in Toronto. It added 1
percent to C$1.3455 per euro. One loonie buys 94.99 U.S. cents.  Options Data  The cost to insure against declines in the loonie versus
its U.S. peer fell to its lowest point in three weeks. The
three-month so-called 25-delta risk reversal rate reached 1.47
percentage points, the least since June 17. Risk reversals
measure the premium on options contracts to sell Canadian
dollars versus buying U.S. contracts that do the opposite.  Canada’s benchmark 10-year bonds were little changed with
the yield at 2.47 percent. The 1.5 percent security maturing in
June 2023 traded at C$91.52.  The  Bank of Canada  will auction C$3.4 billion ($3.2
billion) of five-year notes with a coupon of 1.25 percent
tomorrow.  Housing starts were 199,586 at a seasonally adjusted annual
pace in June, Ottawa-based Canada Mortgage & Housing Corp. said
on its website today. Economists forecasted a reading of 187,500
according to the median of 22 responses to a Bloomberg News
survey.  Oil, Stocks  Futures on crude oil rose 1.4 percent to $104.57 per barrel
in New York, reaching the highest level since May 2012. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. stocks added 0.7 percent,
while the S&P/TSX Composite Index, the benchmark Canadian equity
gauge, increased 0.7 percent.  “Given the fact that this risk-on move is sustained, we
could end up slightly more positive for the Canadian dollar,”
said  David Tulk , chief macro strategist at Toronto-Dominion
Bank’s TD securities unit, by phone from Toronto. “We’ll
probably end up in the current range, but probably biased to see
a bit more strength for today.”  Aluminum producer Alcoa’s profit excluding expenses related
to output cuts and a legal settlement were 7 cents a share in
the second quarter, Alcoa said yesterday, topping the 6-cent
average of 15 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales fell 1.9
percent to $5.85 billion, surpassing the $5.79 billion average
of nine estimates.  The loonie extended gains versus the euro as Reuters
reported ECB board member Joerg Asmussen said the central bank
is prepared to support additional stimulus.  ECB Update  “There are some dovish comments out of  Europe , and that’s
fueling this tremendous  U.S. dollar  rally,” Adam Button, a
currency analyst at Forexlive.com in  Montreal , said in a
telephone interview  “There’s a broad stronger dollar theme,
which is weighing on the Canadian dollar.”  Hedge funds  and other large speculators  increased  their
bets last week the Canadian dollar will decline against the
greenback, figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures
Trading Commission show. The difference in the number of wagers
on a decline in the Canadian dollar compared with those on a
gain -- so-called net shorts -- was 16,250 on July 2, compared
with net shorts of 10,638 a week earlier.  The Canadian dollar has risen 1.3 percent in the past three
months against nine developed nations currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Index. The U.S. dollar has gained
5.6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Marshall in  New York  at 
 jmarshall75@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  