-- Car Bomb Explodes in Beirut Southern District, NNA Says
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2013-07-09T11:28:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/car-bomb-explodes-in-beirut-southern-district-hezbollah-tv-says.html
A bomb exploded in a Hezbollah
militant stronghold in the southern suburb of Beirut today,
injuring dozens and sending a thick plume of smoke billowing
over the Lebanese capital.  Caretaker Health Minister Ali Hassan Khalil said 53 people
were wounded in the attack in the Bir El Abed area, including 12
who remained hospitalized. The official National News Agency
said the bomb was placed inside a parked car area and that no
arrests had been made.  There were no immediate claims of responsibility for the
blast, which occurred at a time of growing sectarian tensions
fanned by the civil war in neighboring  Syria . Lebanon’s
caretaker Interior Minister Marwan Charbel said in an interview
broadcast on Hezbollah’s Al Manar TV that the attack was
designed to incite conflict between Sunni and Shiite Muslims.  A column of smoke rose from the parking lot where the blast
went off, and ambulances and fire fighters arrived at the scene,
Al Manar footage showed.  Salman Shaikh, director of the  Brookings Institution ’s Doha
Center in Qatar, said in an interview from Larnaca, Cyprus,
that the explosion was “probably a sectarian-inspired blast
unless it was trying to get a high-value target.”  ‘Very Dangerous Development’  “It smacks of the pattern of what we’ve seen in other
sectarian fields of conflict in the region, not least in Iraq
and Syria,” he added. “That would be a very dangerous
development.”  In May, Hezbollah chief  Hassan Nasrallah  said his Iranian-backed group was helping Syrian President Bashar al-Assad fight
insurgents. Syrian rebels, most of them  Sunni Muslims , have
threatened to target the Shiite Muslim Hezbollah for backing
Assad.  The spillover from the Syrian war was also in evidence last
month in clashes in the southern city of Sidon between the
Lebanese army and anti-Hezbollah Sunnis whose leader declared a
holy war on Assad. The Sunnis accused Hezbollah of backing the
Lebanese army against them.  Louay Almokdad, logistical coordinator for the rebel Free
Syrian Army, said the FSA “condemned this cowardly terrorist
attack.”  Clashes between Assad supporters and opponents have also
frequently erupted in the northern city of Tripoli. LCB TV
reported today that residents of the city’s Sunni Muslim Bab el-Tibbaneh area fired in the air to express joy over the explosion
in the capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in  Beirut  at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  