-- Cargill to Extend Growth in Animal Nutrition After Provimi Deal
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2013-07-09T09:18:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/cargill-to-extend-growth-in-animal-nutrition-after-provimi-deal.html
Cargill Inc., which purchased animal-nutrition supplier Provimi for about $2 billion in 2011, is
putting the final touches to an expansion plan targeting markets
such as China and  India .  Europe also remains a potential area for growth, even as
not all markets are growing at the same rate, Scott Ainslie,
vice president at Cargill’s animal nutrition division, said in a
phone interview.  “We’re in the process of wrapping up some global strategy
work that really seeks to leverage the capability, the
opportunities and the geographies that we can go into because of
the combination,” with Provimi, Ainslie said.  Cargill last month signed an agreement to develop animal-feed offerings using CSM NV’s lactic-acid-based compounds that
reduce the levels of antibiotic growth promoters used in animal
rearing. While Minneapolis-based Cargill has developed its own
technologies, it forms ties with others when needed, Ainslie
said. Chemical companies including  BASF SE (BAS)  have entered the
industry to diversify away from commodity products.  Collaboration in the $5 trillion global agribusiness
industry, whether through acquisitions or non-exclusive
agreements, will probably increase as companies contend with
increased volatility caused by climate change, political
intervention in areas such as biofuel, and social changes,
according to a report by  KPMG .  Spending on the research and development of animal-nutrition products increased to $410 million in 2010 from $314
million in 1994, KPMG said in a report this week. Deals have
included  Bayer AG (BAYN) ’s purchase of AgraQuest for at least $425
million and BASF SE’s $1 billion takeover of Becker Underwood.  “We really look at where our biggest growth opportunities
are and in some cases that involves organic growth or expanding
the footprint that we already have, and in some cases that might
involve an acquisition,” Ainslie said. “Whatever makes
sense.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  