-- China Faltering Demand Proved as Producer Prices Slump
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-09T09:49:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/china-inflation-accelerates-more-than-forecast-on-food-prices.html
China ’s  inflation  stayed subdued in
June while a decline in factory-gate prices extended its longest
streak in a decade, underscoring weaker demand in an economy
that probably decelerated for a second quarter.  The  consumer price index  rose 2.7 percent from a year
earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said today in Beijing,
compared with a median estimate of 2.5 percent in a Bloomberg
News survey and a 2.1 percent gain in May.  Producer prices  fell
2.7 percent.  The lowest first-half inflation since the financial crisis
in 2009 and prolonged factory-gate deflation reflect a slowdown
and overcapacity that leave the government at risk of missing
its annual growth target for the first time since 1998. Premier
 Li Keqiang  has indicated he’s reluctant to introduce short-term
stimulus, instead focusing on spurring longer-term expansion by
restructuring the economy and curbing the state’s role.  “Overall, inflation pressure is still quite muted,” said
Yao Wei, China economist for Societe Generale SA in Hong Kong,
said on Bloomberg Television. “We expect growth to continue to
slide over the medium term,” and government efforts to
restructure the economy will take time, Yao said.  Estimates (CNCPIYOY)  for June consumer inflation in a Bloomberg News
survey of 40 analysts ranged from 2 percent to 3 percent. The
government in March said it would aim to keep price gains to
about 3.5 percent this year. The CPI rose 2.4 percent in the
first six months of the year.  Stable Prices  Consumer prices in June are “basically stable” if
compared with May and the year-on-year increase resulted from a
lower base last June, Yu Qiumei, a senior statistician, said in
a statement.  Prices of food rose 4.9 percent from a year earlier in June,
the statistics bureau said today, after a 3.2 percent gain in
May.  The decline in producer prices compares with the median
 estimate  for a 2.6 percent drop in a Bloomberg survey. The index
has fallen for 16 straight months, the longest stretch since
2002.  Stocks in China fluctuated after the report. The benchmark
 Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  closed 0.4 percent higher, rebounding
from a July low yesterday.  China’s economic expansion probably slowed for a second
quarter in the three months ended June 30, as export growth
weakened and domestic demand slowed.  Gross domestic product  rose
7.5 percent from a year earlier, according to the median of 31
economist estimates in a Bloomberg News survey ahead of data due
July 15. That’s down from 7.7 percent in the first quarter and
7.9 percent in the last three months of 2012.  Cash Squeeze  The government sent interbank borrowing costs to records
last month with a cash squeeze that signaled a crackdown on
speculative lending.  “The central bank has made it clear that it won’t adopt a
relaxed monetary policy,” said  Zhu Haibin , chief China
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Hong Kong. “On the other
hand, modest inflation provides a good chance for the government
to liberalize pricing of resources and utilities.”  The General Administration of Customs tomorrow releases
June figures on exports and imports, and the central bank will
publish data on credit and money supply over the next week. The
statistics bureau on July 15 will also provide June numbers on
industrial production and retail sales along with first-half
fixed-asset investment.  City Borrowing  Ordos, a Chinese city known for its empty skyscrapers, is
struggling to repay debt and has resorted to borrowing from
companies to pay workers, a magazine published by the official
Xinhua News Agency reported July 5. The report adds to signs of
strains in the economy, with China Rongsheng Heavy Industries
Group Holdings Ltd., the country’s biggest shipyard outside
state control, saying last week it’s seeking financial support
from the government after orders plunged.  The government is seeking to hold down price gains of
consumer items and is investigating drugmakers and food
producers. Nestle SA and Danone’s infant-nutrition units said
last week they will cut some prices as the National Development
and Reform Commission probes the pricing of baby formula.  Aluminum Output  Weakness in demand and expansion in production capacity may
squeeze industrial profits. While Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd.
said it is suspending production at some plants, others
including China Hongqiao Group Ltd., the nation’s largest non-state aluminum producer, are increasing or maintaining output.
The Zouping, Shandong province-based company will boost
production about 10 percent this year, Christine Wong, head of
 investor relations , said last week.  “China’s inflationary pressures are muted,” said Liu Li-Gang, Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.’s head of
Greater China economics in  Hong Kong , citing an unchanged CPI in
June from May. Higher borrowing costs will strain the economy,
suggesting that the central bank “will need to cut  interest
rates  to instill confidence,” Liu said in a note.  --Nerys Avery, Zhou Xin. With assistance from Ailing Tan in
 Singapore ,  Rishaad Salamat  and Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong,
Penny Peng in Beijing and James Mayger in  Tokyo . Editors: Scott Lanman, Sunil Jagtiani  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nerys Avery in Beijing at 
 navery2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  