-- China Central Bank Tightens Rules on Interbank Bond Trading
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-09T08:36:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/china-s-central-bank-tightens-rules-on-interbank-bond-trading.html
China ’s central bank is tightening
rules on interbank bond market trading by ordering all
transactions to be conducted through the National Interbank
Funding Center as it seeks to boost transparency.  Transactions including forward deals and repurchases can’t
be reversed or changed once agreed between the two parties, the
People’s Bank of China said in a  statement  posted on its website
today. Clearing agencies should not engage in settling trades
outside the interbank market, according to the statement.
Alterations to bond ownership, such as inheritance that are not
related to trading, must be supported by legal documents
explaining the nature of the transaction, it said.  Chinese authorities are seeking to clean up the $3.8
trillion market and encourage companies to raise funds through
bonds rather than relying on bank lending. The State Council, or
cabinet, approved trading of government debt futures for the
first time in 18 years to allow investors to hedge risk, the
China Securities Regulatory Commission said this month.  “It’s a continuation of the changes the government is
making on an operational level to improve the bond-market
system,” said Becky Liu, a Hong Kong-based rates strategist at
Standard Chartered Plc. “We should expect more steps from the
regulators to clamp down on illegal bond trading activities.”  Historical Checks  China opened its interbank bond market in December 2011 to
more than 200 qualified foreign institutional investors, who
were previously restricted to exchange-traded securities. The
central bank allowed money-market rates to rise to records in
June as it sought to discourage lenders from using short-term
financing to cover longer-maturity loans.  The PBOC had ordered participants to submit self-examinations of their bond trading histories by May 10, two
people with knowledge of the matter said. The checks focused on
transactions between banks and associated investment companies,
said the people, who asked not to be identified as they weren’t
authorized to speak publicly.  Some banks, seeking to move bonds off their balance sheets,
paid other institutions to hold notes for a certain period,
according to an April 22 China National Radio article. Interest
payments and gains from price appreciation continued to belong
to the original owner, according to the article. Such
transactions are open to abuse including insider trading and the
use of clients’ funds for personal trades, it said.  Ban Risk  All bond transactions need to be conducted with the
National Interbank Funding Center and market participants will
be banned from trading if they fail to connect their systems to
the platform within a month, the PBOC statement said today.  The yield on the 3.38 percent government bonds due May 2023
rose four basis points to 3.54 percent as of 4:30 p.m. in
 Shanghai , according to prices from Chinabond, the nation’s
biggest debt clearing house. That’s the biggest increase since
June 20. The rate on two-year notes dropped five basis points,
or 0.05 percentage point, to 3.11 percent.  The  yuan  climbed 0.07 percent to 6.1295 per dollar and is
the sole gainer this year among Asian currencies.  Chinese regulators also reined in money supply in June in a
bid to force investors to shift money out of shadow banking into
publicly traded securities.  The PBOC allowed the  seven-day  repurchase rate, which
measures interbank funding availability, to jump to a record of
12.45 percent in June as a reminder to lenders that they need to
adjust their “asset businesses,” Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  told
the Shanghai-based China Business News in a July 1 interview.
While the monetary authority would step in if individual
institutions were in extreme difficulty, it doesn’t want banks
to ignore the need for adjustments, Zhou was cited as saying.  The repo rate was at 3.6 percent today, having declined 256
basis points since the end of June, according to a weighted
average compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  