-- China to Hear Hong Kong Lawmakers as Cries for Suffrage Rise
-- B y   S i m o n   L e e
-- 2013-07-09T03:19:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/china-to-hear-hong-kong-lawmakers-as-cries-for-suffrage-rise.html
China ’s most senior official in Hong
Kong will dine with lawmakers next week for the first time since
the city’s return to Chinese rule in 1997, amid rising demand
for universal suffrage.  Members of the legislature received an invitation to meet
Zhang Xiaoming, director of the Liaison Office of China in Hong
Kong, for lunch, according to Emily Lau, chairwoman of the
 Democratic Party .  The meeting will take place as some lawmakers and civic
groups demand that Hong Kong Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying
speed up reforms to prepare for universal suffrage in 2017,
which China has promised the former British colony. Public
distrust of the Chinese government rose to its highest level
since February 1997 last month, according to a survey by
University of Hong Kong Public Opinion Programme.  “This is a very historic event because there has never
been mainland officials paying an official visit to the
Legislative Council,” said Lau, who plans to attend the
luncheon. “We’re happy to communicate with any and all
parties.”  Leung -- the last Hong Kong leader chosen by a committee
comprised of the wealthy, lawmakers and professionals -- has to
pave the way for universal suffrage. Some civic groups have
proposed occupying Central,  Hong Kong ’s business district, next
year if proposals are delayed or less than fully democratic.
Past anti-government demonstrations in Hong Kong have drawn as
many as 500,000 people.  Electoral reforms in Hong Kong require the approval of the
city’s legislature and China’s endorsement. Increased democracy
may lead to China’s refusal to appoint a leader elected by the
city’s people, Leung said in an interview last month.  Political Reforms  “One swallow doesn’t make a summer,” Lau said. Her
party’s caucus will draft a letter to Zhang to express their
position on political reforms, she said.  Qiao Xiaoyang, chairman of the law committee of the
National People’s Congress, said on March 24 that consultations
about political reform in Hong Kong shouldn’t start until
everybody agrees that the leader of the city “can’t plot to
overthrow the rule of the Chinese Communist Party.”  Hong Kong public’s distrust of the Chinese government rose
to 45.4 percent, according to a survey of 1,055 people conducted
from June 10-13 by the University of Hong Kong Public Opinion
Programme.  Hong Kong needs a system that will allow members of the
opposition to stand as candidates in the next election to pick
its leader,  Allan Zeman , chairman of Lan Kwai Fong Holdings Ltd.
who founded the city’s biggest entertainment and restaurant
district, said in an interview yesterday.  “That’s the only way you’ll have legitimacy for the chief
executive,” said Zeman, who nominated Leung’s main opponent
 Henry Tang  in last year’s chief executive race. If you just
preclude pro-democracy parties, it won’t work.’’  Leung defeated Tang and pro-democracy candidate Albert Ho
in last year’s campaign.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Lee in Hong Kong at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  