-- Shanghai Stocks Rise as Sinopec Jump Overshadows Inflation Data
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-09T08:32:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/china-s-stock-index-futures-rise-solar-companies-may-move.html
The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose
after  China  Petroleum and Chemical Corp. jumped the most in 11
months and cement and utility companies rallied, overshadowing a
report showing faster inflation.  China Petroleum, known as Sinopec, surged 4.6 percent after
valuations dropped to a record low.  Jiangxi Wannianqing Cement
Co. (000789)  climbed the most this year after estimating first-half
profit probably more than doubled. GD Power Development Co. led
gains for utilities after saying rising electricity prices will
boost a unit’s revenue. Kweichow Moutai Co. and Poly Real Estate
Group Co. paced losses for consumer-staples and property shares.  The benchmark Shanghai Composite added 0.4 percent to
1,965.45 at the close, after plunging 2.4 percent yesterday. The
CSI 300 Index slid less than 0.1 percent to 2,162.67. The
consumer price index rose 2.7 percent in June, the National
Bureau of Statistics said, compared with a median estimate of
2.5 percent in a Bloomberg News survey. Producer prices fell 2.7
percent, extending their longest losing streak in a decade.  “The CPI and PPI figures weren’t much of a surprise and
the market has reached a consensus that the economy will remain
flat going forward,” said Wei Wei, an analyst at West China
Securities Co. in Shanghai. “Most of the bad news from the
economic front has been priced in and the market is focused on
companies’ earnings now.”  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  fell 0.2 percent.
Trading volumes in the Shanghai index were 33 percent lower than
the 30-day average, while 30-day  volatility  was at 22.9, near a
three-month high, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Inflation Data  The Shanghai measure has lost 13 percent this year as data
from industrial production to exports pointed to a sustained
slowdown in the economy and as money-market rates reached record
highs. The index trades at 8.1 times 12-month projected profit
after valuations fell last month to the lowest level in at least
five years,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show.  China’s inflation remained below the government’s target in
June, while the decline in factory-gate prices extended its
longest streak in a decade amid overcapacity and lower commodity
costs. The government in March said it would aim to keep price
gains to about 3.5 percent this year.  “Despite the bigger-than-expected rebound in CPI
inflation, the 2.7 percent CPI inflation reading is still
moderate and PPI inflation is still quite negative, so these
inflation readings won’t become significant constraints for
policymaking at the moment,” Lu Ting, economist at Bank of
America Corp., wrote in a report today.  Sinopec Valuation  UBS AG cut its year-end target for the CSI 300 to 2,300.
Given no further changes to current policies, “we are more
cautious” on the market in the second half, Chen Li, a
strategist at UBS, wrote in a report dated today. UBS cut its
earnings growth estimate to 8.7 percent for this year from the
previous forecast of 11.5 percent. Chinese companies are
scheduled to report first-half earnings from this month.  Sinopec, the biggest oil refiner in Asia, surged 4.6
percent to 4.33  yuan . The stock accounted for 34 percent of the
index’s gain today, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.
Sinopec trades at 6.3 times estimated earnings for this year, a
record low, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  “Sinopec’s valuation is very attractive now and all bad
news have been exhausted.” says Shi Yan, an analyst at UOB-Kay
Hian Ltd. in Shanghai. “There is a good chance the stock will
rebound a bit when the overall market stabilizes.”  Jiangxi Cement soared by the maximum daily limit of 10
percent to 8.48 yuan. The company said first-half profit
probably jumped between 120 percent and 140 percent from a year
earlier.  Gansu Qilianshan Cement Group Co. (600720)  gained 6.2 percent to
8.29 yuan. Huaxin Cement Co., the Chinese affiliate of Holcim
Ltd., added 1.4 percent to 10.12 yuan.  Small-Cap Outperformance  A measure of utilities in the CSI 300 rose 1 percent, the
most among 10 industry groups. GD Power climbed 1.8 percent to
2.24 yuan after saying this year’s revenue for a unit will
increase by about 170 million yuan ($27.7 million) after the
National Development and Reform Commission raised power prices.  The ChiNext index of start-up companies jumped 2 percent.
Smaller stocks will continue to outperform in the second half as
the central bank keeps neutral monetary policies and economic
growth is unlikely to pick up, Liu Hui, a fund manager at HSBC
Jintrust Fund Management Co., said in an e-mailed interview.
Liu’s HSBC Low Carbon Pioneer Fund returned 42 percent this
year, the second-best performing China-based stock fund through
July 2, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Shanghai ’s property  sub-index  lost 1.7 percent. Poly Real
Estate, China’s second-largest developer by market value,
dropped 2.8 percent to 10.12 yuan. China Vanke Co., the biggest,
fell 3.4 percent to 9.66 yuan.  Kweichow Moutai led declines for consumer-staples
producers, dropping 1.6 percent to 192.05 yuan. Jiangsu Yanghe
Brewery Joint-Stock Co. slid 1.4 percent to 50.17 yuan. Anhui
Gujing Distillery Co. lost 2.7 percent to 19.49 yuan.  The Bloomberg China-US 55 Index, the measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese companies, fell 0.1 percent in New
York yesterday.  --Zhang Shidong. With assistance from Guo Aibing in Hong Kong.
Editors: Allen Wan, Richard Frost  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Patterson at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  