-- China’s Swap Rate Drops for a Second Day as Cash Squeeze Eases
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-07-09T03:19:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/china-s-swap-rate-drops-for-a-second-day-as-cash-squeeze-eases.html
China ’s one-year interest-rate swap
fell for a second day as the central bank refrained from adding
funds to the financial system, adding to signs last month’s cash
squeeze has eased.  The People’s Bank of China hadn’t conducted repurchase-agreement operations as of 9:20 a.m. in Shanghai, according to a
trader at a primary dealer required to bid at the auctions. The
PBOC is due to publish credit data for June by July 15, which
may indicate how much the cash shortage, which sent interbank
borrowing costs soaring to records last month, is affecting the
world’s second-largest economy.  “I think the PBOC suspended open-market operations
today,” said Chen Qi, a rates strategist at UBS Securities Co.
in  Shanghai . “So there’s no drain or injection” of funds, Chen
said. “It continues with a neutral stance.”  The one-year interest-rate swap contract, the fixed cost
needed to receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate,
declined three basis points, of 0.03 percentage point, to 3.77
percent as of 11:01 a.m. in Shanghai, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The rate has fallen 129 basis points from this
year’s high of 5.06 percent on June 20.  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, fell seven basis points to 3.60 percent
after sliding 236 basis points last week, according to a
weighted average compiled by the National Interbank Funding
Center. It reached a record high of 12.45 percent on June 20.  Rising Supply  Money-market tightness in China has eased with the Ministry
of Finance auctioning 50 billion  yuan  ($8.2 billion) each of
three- and six-month Treasury deposits on July 11 and 18, Yii Hui Wong and Mirza Baig, Singapore-based strategists  at BNP
Paribas SA, wrote in a report today.  There will be 267 billion yuan of bills maturing in July
and the central bank will likely allow this liquidity to seep
back into the system, according to the report.  The PBOC signaled June 25 that any liquidity support during
the funding crunch would be focused on banks that lend to help
the economy.  “We believe that domestic funding conditions will be
tighter in the second half of 2013, reflecting more prudent
policies toward liquidity growth,” Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s
Hong Kong-based economist Cui Li wrote in a report today. The
seven-day repo rate may rise to around an average 4 percent in
the fourth quarter, according to the report.  China’s consumer-price index rose 2.7 percent in June from
a year earlier, official data showed today, compared with a
median estimate of 2.5 percent in a Bloomberg News survey.
Producer prices fell 2.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  