-- Chinese Cash Squeeze Causes Auto Dealer Panic, Group Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-09T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/chinese-cash-squeeze-causes-auto-dealer-panic-group-says.html
China ’s cash crunch is spreading to
the nation’s auto dealerships as they become increasingly
reluctant to ship their vehicles to neighborhood car lots
without upfront payment.  “With the cash squeeze, authorized dealers are no longer
willing to hand over their cars on good faith,” Chi Yifeng,
general manager of Beijing Asian Games Village Automobile
Exchange, a car shopping plaza, said in an interview yesterday.
“They’re holding tighter to their capital and are more cautious
about their business plans.”  While money-market rates have fallen from last month’s
highs, Chi’s comments show that funding concerns in China aren’t
over. The squeeze will probably dry up 750 billion  yuan  ($122
billion) in credit this year, an amount equivalent to the size
of  Vietnam ’s economy, according to a Bloomberg News survey of 15
analysts.  “The cash crunch has led to psychological panic among
dealers over access to financing,” Luo Lei, deputy secretary-general of the China Automobile Dealers Association, said in a
phone interview from Beijing yesterday. “So far, it hasn’t
caused any real damage to the industry, but if the cash crunch
continues, the impact will spread to auto dealers.”  According to a dealer survey released by the association
yesterday, about 28 percent of respondents said they felt
“anxious” about their funds last month, up from 11 percent in
May. Only 21 percent of respondents said they had ease of access
to financing in June, down 27 percentage points from a month
earlier, the survey showed.  ‘More Pain’  “It’s just the beginning -- a liquidity crunch in the
 interbank market  is set to ripple to economic activities on the
ground,” said Xu Gao, Beijing-based chief economist at
Everbright Securities Co., who formerly worked at the  World
Bank . “We will see more and more pain in the real economy
stemming from the crunch.”  Vehicle dealers in China typically rely on lines of credit
from banks to finance their orders for vehicles from automakers.
They also take out loans to pay for construction of new outlets.
About 85 percent of buyers pay for their auto purchases in cash,
which helps ease the pressure on dealers, Luo said.  Borrowing Costs  The cash squeeze has eased since interbank borrowing costs
surged to record highs on June 20, with China’s money-market
rate declining for a second week on speculation the People’s
Bank of China injected funds into select banks.  June credit data due as soon as this week will give
investors clues to how much the cash squeeze is affecting the
world’s second-biggest economy. In the latest sign of financial
strains in China, state media have reported that the northern
city of Ordos has resorted to borrowing from companies to pay
municipal workers.  China Rongsheng Heavy Industries Group Holdings Ltd. (1101) , the
country’s biggest shipyard outside state control, earlier this
month said it sought government financial support and is in
talks with financial institutions about renewing credit
facilities.  The dealer association’s survey also found that 56 percent
of respondents reported a decline in demand in June, compared
with 23 percent in May.  The state-backed China Association of Automobile
Manufacturers is scheduled to release wholesale vehicle sales
data today.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  