-- China Starts Spot Iron Ore Platform in Rizhao to Boost Trade
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-09T10:52:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/china-starts-spot-iron-ore-platform-in-rizhao-to-boost-trade.html
China, the world’s largest iron ore
buyer, started a bourse in the port city of Rizhao to facilitate
trading of the steel making ingredient.  Rizhao International Iron Ore Exchange opened today with
three transactions, according to a statement on its  website .
About 60,000 tons of Newman lump ore from the port were traded
at 1,020  yuan  ($166) per dry metric ton, 175,372 tons of Robe
River fines in Rizhao changed hands at 815 yuan and
approximately 10,000 tons of PB fines in Lanshan were purchased
at 855 yuan, the bourse said.  Ore with 62 percent iron content arriving at Tianjin port
has tumbled 23 percent from a 16-month high in February,
according to a benchmark gauge compiled by the Steel Index Ltd.
Banks from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to Barclays Plc to HSBC
Holdings Plc have pared growth estimates for China this year to
below the government’s 7.5 percent goal.  Rizhao is the nation’s biggest port for iron ore, receiving
more than 100 million tons of the commodity every year. The new
bourse indicates the government may be loosening its control of
importing and trading of the steel-making ingredient after
scrapping a licensing system for inbound shipments of iron ore,
effective July 1.  The exchange is funded and owned by  China  Railway Materials
Co., Shandong Huaxin Industry Co., Shandong Wanbao Logistics Co.
and Rizhao Zhongrui Native Produce Co., according to its
website.  The 21 primary dealers on the bourse will trade spot iron
ore denominated in both yuan and dollars, Fang Xueping,
spokeswoman at the exchange, said by phone from Rizhao today. So
far there are no foreign companies trading on the platform, she
said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  