-- Chow Tai Fook Jumps Most Since Debut on Higher Sales
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2013-07-10T09:53:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/chow-tai-fook-same-store-sales-jumps-48-percent-on-gold.html
Chow Tai Fook Jewellery Group Ltd. (1929) 
jumped the most since its trading debut after the world’s
biggest jewelery chain posted a 48 percent gain in same-store
sales for the first quarter.  Chow Tai Fook surged 13 percent, the biggest increase since
the stock was listed in December 2011, to HK$9.16. The benchmark
 Hang Seng Index  rose 1.1 percent.  Jewelers are benefiting from soaring demand for gold
products after the price of bullion plunged, with Chow Tai Fook
outlets increasing the replenishment of inventories in the
quarter. CLSA Ltd. raised its full-year revenue forecast for the
company 6 percent, indicating annual sales growth of more than
20 percent, analyst Aaron Fischer wrote in a note today.  “We believe the Q1 results will be very well-received by
the market and lead to earnings upgrades,” Fischer wrote.  Sales at Chow Tai Fook outlets that have been operating for
at least a year climbed 32 percent in China, and 68 percent in
 Hong Kong  and Macau during the three months ended June 30, the
Hong Kong-based jewelery said yesterday. Total revenue rose 63
percent from a year earlier, it said.  Retail sales of gold tripled across  China  April 15-16 as
the price of the metal fell, according to the China Gold
Association.  Gold Rush  Same-store sales growth for gold products at Chow Tai Fook
jumped 78 percent during the quarter, the company said. Gold
products will account for 60 percent of group revenue this year,
Managing Director Kent Wong said yesterday.  The chain last month reported full-year profit that missed
analysts’ estimates amid higher costs and slower  consumer
spending . Revenue climbed 1.5 percent in the 12 months ended
March 31, slower than the 61 percent increase a year earlier.  The company expects sales to increase by “double digits”
this fiscal year and sees gradual signs of recovery, Chairman
Henry Cheng said in June.  Chow Tai Fook, controlled by Hong Kong billionaire  Cheng Yu-tung , is betting China’s expanding middle class will help
boost profits. The company plans to add 200 outlets this year,
primarily in the third- and fourth-tier cities in China.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  