-- Clariant Sees Leather, Detergent Units Going to Separate Buyers
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-07-09T10:07:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/clariant-sees-leather-detergent-units-going-to-separate-buyers.html
Clariant AG (CLN) , which agreed to sell
three businesses to SK Capital for about $540 million last year,
said it’s likely to sell a leather unit and its detergent and
intermediates business separately.  “We are looking at very diverse activities, so I don’t
think it would make sense for anyone to try to put them
together,” Chief Financial Officer Patrick Jany said in an
interview in Zurich yesterday.  Clariant is benefiting from a benign marketplace with
available financing helping it to support buyers’ interest in
the units, Jany said. The Swiss company may get about 300
million francs ($310 million) from the sales, according to
 Martin Schreiber , an analyst at Zuercher Kantonalbank.  “It’s a good environment to be a seller,” Jany said.
“Everything is on green: it remains to be seen what is the most
value-creating deal.”  The proceeds of disposals will reduce debt and give
Clariant a BBB credit rating by about the end of the year, Jany
said, adding that the company doesn’t expect to make a huge
profit from the disposals. Its current rating is BBB- at
Standard & Poor’s and Ba1 at Moody’s.  Shares of Clariant traded 2 percent higher at 13.88 francs
as of 11:40 a.m. local time. They have advanced 15 percent this
year, giving the company a market value of 4.6 billion francs.  Kottmann Committed  Chief Executive Officer Hariolf Kottmann said he plans to
remain in his post for the next five years as he sees through
the transformation of Clariant, spunoff from Sandoz in 1995.  The former executive of  Celanese Corp. (CE)  and SGL Carbon AG is
in the final throes of an overhaul before the focus is switched
to developing about 250 research projects in more profitable
areas such as agrochemicals and ingredients for shampoos. The
project pipeline has the potential to generate 1 billion francs
in new sales by 2017, the company has said.  Though Clariant has been mooted as a possible takeover
target, Kottmann said it’s unlikely to be sold to a larger
chemical company such as  BASF SE (BAS)  or  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)   “Based on how I read the market currently, BASF is
focusing internally, doing their homework when it comes to
performance chemicals,” said the chief executive, who has a PhD
in organic chemistry. “I don’t think Clariant is their
preferred candidate.”  Upon reaching a targeted 17 percent earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization margin by 2015,
Kottmann favors ramping up organic growth over further margin
improvements, he said in an interview yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  