-- Clash Looms on Obama Nominees as Reid Plans to Push Votes
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2013-07-09T21:07:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/clash-looms-on-obama-nominees-as-reid-plans-to-push-votes.html
U.S. Senate Democratic leaders may
force a showdown with Republicans as early as next week to end
delays in confirming President  Barack Obama ’s nominees for Labor
secretary, chief environmental regulator and other agencies.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  could package votes on
the Labor and Environmental Protection Agency selections along
with  Richard Cordray  to head the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau and picks for the National Labor Relations Board, said
Adam Jentleson, a Reid spokesman. Reid may file a motion within
days to force the votes next week and let lawmakers then act on
the nominations, he said yesterday.  “He is determined to have these votes,” Jentleson said.
“He’s made clear that this is a top priority this month.”  The votes would be aimed at ending delays that have
prevented Obama from filling vacancies in his second-term
Cabinet and other top jobs. The nominations of Cordray,  Thomas Perez  to run the Labor Department and Gina McCarthy to lead the
EPA face Republican opposition and may fail in a filibuster. It
takes 60 votes to end the delaying tactic, and Democrats control
54 seats, including the two independents who caucus with the
party.  Reid, a Nevada Democrat, also isn’t ruling out making a
permanent change to Senate rules that would ban filibusters of
executive-branch nominees, Jentleson said. Reid today declined
to comment on his plan, and said Senate Democrats will meet July
11 to weigh in on how party leaders should proceed.  Reid Pledge  Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky today
challenged threats by Democratic leaders to change the
filibuster rules because of the delays, pointing to Reid’s
earlier promises not to take such a step. In 2009, Reid told
reporters it would “ruin our country” to alter the rules.  A change in the rules could leave Democrats on the losing
side if party control of the chamber shifts and a Republican
president is pushing nominees through the chamber, McConnell
said.  “We know that majorities of either party will never get
everything they want,” he said on the Senate floor. “That push
and pull is the hallmark of a healthy democracy. And one day,
when they are invariably returned to the minority, I suspect my
Democrat friends will thank us for standing up for these
democratic rights.”  ‘Embarrassingly Fast’  McConnell and other Republicans said Democrats are
exaggerating the matter, because the Senate has confirmed other
nominees, including Obama’s selections to lead the Commerce and
Transportation departments, and to head the White House Office
of Management and Budget. Most of Obama’s judicial nominees for
federal courts also have been confirmed, lawmakers said.  “The important thing to realize is that all of the
president’s nominees have been considered in almost
embarrassingly fast speed,” Senator  Lamar Alexander , a
Tennessee Republican, said yesterday. “As far as judges go,
there’s almost no one left to confirm.”  The clash over Perez threatens the Senate tradition of
avoiding filibusters when considering Cabinet appointees.  In February, Republicans staged a filibuster on the
nomination of Chuck Hagel as Defense secretary, only the third
time a Cabinet pick needed 60 votes to overcome delaying
tactics, said Betty Koed, the Senate associate historian.  Verity, Kempthorne  President  Ronald Reagan ’s 1987 pick for Commerce secretary,
C. William Verity, and President  George W. Bush ’s 2006 choice of
Dirk Kempthorne to be Interior secretary also faced filibusters.
Like Hagel, both overcame the obstacle to win confirmation.  Some Republicans say they haven’t decided whether they
would vote to affirm a filibuster to obstruct the nominees, or
whether they might merely vote against them in a final vote in
which confirmation requires a simple majority of the Senate’s
100 members. Those still making up their minds on the procedural
matters include Alexander, the top Republican on the Senate’s
labor panel, as well as  Pat Roberts  of Kansas, who also serves
on that committee. Both say they oppose Perez.  “I haven’t decided yet” whether to support a filibuster
on Perez’s nomination, Alexander said. Senate Republicans will
discuss strategy in a weekly caucus meeting today, he said.  Perez, now the Justice Department’s top civil-rights
lawyer, has drawn Republican criticism for his handling of two
whistle-blower lawsuits that the department declined to pursue.
They were part of a deal in which St. Paul, Minnesota, officials
agreed to drop a case being appealed to the  Supreme Court  in
return for the department withdrawing from the other cases.  Lawsuit Clash  The Supreme Court case risked striking down an enforcement
tool used in housing discrimination cases.  At his April confirmation hearing, Perez clashed with
Republicans over the lawsuits. McConnell fueled growing partisan
opposition by calling Perez a “crusading ideologue” with a
history of twisting the law to win desired outcomes.  In McCarthy’s case, her detractors said their opposition
focuses on the agency’s actions rather than her qualifications.  Senator  David Vitter  of Louisiana, the top Republican on
the Environment and Public Works Committee, said today he would
not support a filibuster against McCarthy after he had “very
productive conversations” with agency officials. He complained
last month that the EPA refused to fully answer questions he
posed about the agency’s transparency in developing and
analyzing clean-air rules. McCarthy is the EPA assistant
administrator for air pollution.  Blunt ‘Hold’  At the same time, Republican Senator  Roy Blunt  of Missouri
said today in a statement that the “hold” he placed on
McCarthy’s confirmation in March remains intact. Blunt put a
hold on the nomination to protest the Obama administration’s
handling of a floodway project in his home state. If honored by
Reid, Blunt’s move could delay a vote.  Her confirmation may be complicated by Obama’s plans,
outlined last month, for a package of initiatives to curb
greenhouse gas emissions, including the first limits on carbon
emissions from all  power plants . Such a move is opposed by
utilities such as  Southern Co. (SO)  and coal producers including
 Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU)   Senate Republicans, including  John Barrasso  of Wyoming,
said Obama’s plan may hurt McCarthy, who testified that an
emissions rule affecting existing coal-fired power plants wasn’t
in development. Barrasso said on the Senate floor June 25 that
McCarthy is “either arrogant or ignorant.”  Democrats Targeted  Democratic senators seeking re-election in 2014 in states
that voted for Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney
last year are under pressure to split with the party on votes
tied to Obama’s climate-change announcement.  The National Republican Senatorial Committee sent
statements about Obama’s “radical climate change agenda” to
news organizations in states where Democratic senators including
 Mark Pryor  of Arkansas,  Mary Landrieu  of Louisiana and  Kay Hagan 
of North Carolina face re-election. Romney carried all three
states in the 2012 presidential election.  Landrieu said in an interview yesterday that she is leaning
toward supporting McCarthy, in part because she is backed by
industry groups representing businesses regulated by the EPA.  “I’ve met with her and she seems very reasonable and
moderate,” Landrieu said. “I’m not happy with the EPA
generally, but somebody needs to run it. And she’s probably
going to be the most business-oriented nominee we could get out
of the administration.”  McCarthy Allies  McCarthy allies including the Sierra Club and the League of
Conservation Voters have formed a coalition,
SaveOurEnvironment.org, that is running web ads and a blog on
the website of the Washington Post defending her record.  “McCarthy has worked for both Republicans and Democrats in
key posts directing environmental and public health policies,”
the coalition wrote in a blog item. “In fact, Republican and
Democratic senators already easily confirmed McCarthy by a voice
vote during her last confirmation for head of the clean air
division of EPA.”  Senate Environment and Public Works Committee Chairman
 Barbara Boxer  said she’s convinced McCarthy can overcome
objections and win confirmation. Boxer said that’s partly
because McCarthy has a history of bipartisanship that includes
serving as an environmental adviser under five Massachusetts
governors that include former Republican governor William Weld.  Boxer, a California Democrat, also said that while Reid
could try to change Senate rules over the confirmation feud, she
sees him as wary of doing so.  “He would much prefer to run this place in a collegial way
and let the president have his team in place,” said Boxer. “If
he can avoid changing the rules, I think he will.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  