-- Co-Op Bank Bondholders Demand Capital Shortfall Review
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-07-09T14:27:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/co-op-bank-bondholders-demand-capital-shortfall-review.html
A group of Co-Operative Bank Plc
bondholders urged the U.K.’s Prudential Regulation Authority to
review the bank’s plan to raise 1.5 billion pounds ($2.2
billion) to plug a capital shortfall.  Mark Taber, a private investor and organizer for consumer
bondholders has written to Andrew Bailey, chief executive
officer of the regulator, to ask for the calculations of the
capital gap to be published, he said in a letter seen by
Bloomberg News today.  The Co-Op bank said last month it will swap some debt for
equity and trade on the London Stock Exchange to raise money
after it abandoned plans to buy branches from  Lloyds Banking
Group Plc. (LLOY)  The customer-owned lender is seeking to raise 1
billion pounds by asking existing bondholders to exchange
subordinated debt for new equity and senior debt, with 500
million pounds more gained through the sale of insurance assets.  More than 1,300 bondholders have contacted Taber “in great
distress since the bank’s recent announcement concerning the
PRA’s view of its capital requirement and the plan for
addressing it,” he said in the statement.  Taber’s group is one of at least three seeking to negotiate
a better financial deal under the debt restructuring. Aurelius
Capital Management LP, a New York-based hedge fund, and some
other bondholders are considering hiring a legal adviser,
according to a person with knowledge of the matter. A third
bondholder committee comprising U.K. insurance companies is
being formed by the Association of British Insurers, the
Financial Times said last month.  “We can confirm that we’ve received the letter and will
respond in due course,” Sarah Bailey, a Bank of England
spokeswoman, said today by telephone.  Co-Op Bank’s capital has been depleted by soured consumer
and commercial real estate loans stemming from the purchase of
Britannia Building Society in 2009. Loan impairments more than
quadrupled to 468.7 million pounds in 2012, the company said in
March. The bank had a pretax loss of 673.7 million pounds in
2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  