-- Commodity Traders’ Expansion on Easy Money Seen as a Risk
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-07-09T17:43:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/commodity-traders-buildup-on-easy-money-seen-as-risk-in-report.html
Commodity trading companies active in
multiple markets have used easy access to finance to expand
their physical holdings, creating a potential “systemic” risk,
according to two research groups in Brussels.  The merger of Glencore and Xstrata Plc signals commodity
trading has reached “a tipping point,” where more investments
in physical holdings rather than futures or services may lift
profitability, according to a report by the Centre for European
Policy Studies with the European Capital Markets Institute.  The 10 largest trading houses, which include Vitol Group,
Baar, Switzerland-based Glencore Xstrata Plc and Trafigura, had
almost $1 trillion in revenue in 2011, according to the report.
Glencore and Trafigura declined to comment, while Vitol said
commodity traders are unlikely to pose a systemic risk.  “The use of financial leverage to increase physical
holdings, through the easy access to international finance
helped by accommodating monetary policies, may have systemic
implications,” according to the researchers. Disclosure of
physical holdings and a minimum amount of information that must
be provided to regulators could reduce the risks for
governments, the researchers wrote.  Any failure of a commodity trader wouldn’t pose a
substantial risk to the economy, Craig Pirrong, a professor of
finance at the University of Houston, said in May, citing an
unpublished study for the Global Financial Markets Association.  Physical Positions  Vitol, the world’s largest independent oil trader, reported
revenue of $303 billion last year and Trafigura Beheer BV’s
sales were $120.4 billion. Glencore Xstrata, the largest listed
commodity merchant, had $189.7 billion in marketing revenue last
year.  “As highlighted by the collapse of Enron, one of the
largest energy trading companies of its time, physical traders
are highly unlikely to pose systemic risks -- their positions
are largely physical, hedged, liquid and short-term,”
Vitol wrote in an e-mailed comment. “Trading houses should be
allowed to fail and, when they have, there has been little or no
disruption to the orderly functioning of markets or the supply
of commodities.”  More than 5,000 jobs and $1 billion in employee retirement
funds were wiped out when Enron Corp. plunged into bankruptcy in
December 2001. Investors sued to recover more than $40 billion
in market losses.  “Information on financial and physical activities for some
of these global firms is limited, so an assessment by
supervisors of financial stability and market structure
implications is currently very hard to perform,” the
researchers wrote.  Policy Research  CEPS is a policy researcher, which gets funding from the
European Union, companies and national goverments. ECMI is part
of CEPS and produces policy briefings and research reports on
European capital markets.  International coordination may be needed to share
information about physical holdings by commodity-trading
companies, according to the report.  The researchers found linking of the global physical
commodity markets with the financial system and accommodating
monetary policy have raised the effect of the economic cycle and
commodities’ vulnerability to short-term shocks coming from the
financial system.  Demand and supply fundamentals remain “solid” long-term
drivers of commodity futures’ price formation in all studied
markets, according to the report. CEPS and ECMI looked at oil,
natural gas, iron ore, aluminum, copper, wheat, corn, soybean
oil, sugar, cocoa and coffee.  ‘Benign’ Role  The role of non-commercial operators in commodity markets
has been “generally benign,” and the growth of index
investments has not yet caused distortions in price formation,
according to the report.  “An indiscriminate ban on legitimate trading practices may
result in liquidity losses at the expense of the efficiency of
price formation,” CEPS and ECMI wrote.  Claims that the size of futures markets compared to
physical markets may distort price formation could be neither
proven nor ruled out, according to the report. Annual volumes of
trading in the main corn future is as much as nine times larger
than physical production, it said.  Public spending on infrastructure or technology to improve
production may be beneficial alternatives to price subsidies,
which have a possible distorting effect, the organizations
wrote.  China  overtook the U.S. as the biggest subsidizer of
agricultural commodities in 2012 at about $180 billion,
according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  