-- Continental Sells $959 Million Bond to Cut Interest Costs
-- B y   A n g e l a   M a i e r
-- 2013-07-09T15:56:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/continental-sells-959-million-bond-to-cut-interest-costs.html
Continental AG (CON)  raised 750 million
euros ($959 million) from the sale of a new bond to help
refinance the early redemption of higher interest debt.  The coupon for the notes due July 2018 was fixed at 3
percent, the Hanover, Germany-based manufacturer said today in a
statement. Continental will use the proceeds to help buy back 1
billion euros of 7.5 percent securities.  The conditions on the new bond represent the lowest
borrowing costs for Continental since the company, which is
 rated  below investment grade by all three main ratings
companies, re-entered the bond market in 2010. The lower premium
demanded to buy Continental reflects three years of rising  net
income  after reporting a loss in 2009.  “The low yield shows how far the company has come,” said
Chris Higham, a  fund manager  at Aviva Investors Ltd. in London,
which manages more than 60 billion pounds in credit globally.
“The company has made a lot of progress, and now it’s reaping
the rewards of that by refinancing at a very low yield.”  Before today’s sale, Continental paid a 4.5 percent coupon
on a $950 million bond in September 2012. The cost of insuring
investors against losses has also declined, with five-year
credit default swaps almost halving during the last 12 months to
about 146 basis points, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Continental shares  rose  2.1 percent to 110.95 euros after
hitting an all-time high of 112 euros in Frankfurt trading
today. The stock has surged 27 percent this year, valuing the
company at 22.2 billion euros.  Oversubscribed Offering  “We managed to use the positive capital-market environment
to reduce our interest costs and further improve our debt
maturity profile at the same time,” Chief Financial Officer
Wolfgang Schaefer said in the statement. “The significant
oversubscription again is a sign of confidence by the
investors.”  Continental, also  Europe ’s second-largest tiremaker, is the
latest in a series of refinancings in the region. British cinema
operator Vue Entertainment Ltd. and U.K. frozen-food producer
Findus Group Ltd. are approaching investors for new bond issues
as confidence returns to credit markets after the  European
Central Bank  and the Bank of England both indicated on July 4
that they would keep interest rates low.  Continental said yesterday that it will buy back another 1
billion euros of securities paying a coupon of 7.5 percent. This
bond will be repaid on Sept. 16, four years ahead of its
maturity date.  The company also plans to repurchase 750 million euros of
8.5 percent bonds starting on July 15. The company will use cash
and credit lines to finance that transaction, spokeswoman  Antje Lewe  said today by phone.  The bond redemptions are part a broader effort by the
company to improve its financial profile, including refinancing
a 4.5 billion-euro loan in January.  Today’s bond sale was managed by  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  Citigroup
Inc. (C) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  ING Groep NV (INGA) , and  UniCredit SpA. (UCG)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Maier in Munich at 
 amaier8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  