-- Cukurova Must Pay $1.56 Billion to Recover Turkcell Stake
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l   a n d   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2013-07-09T15:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/cukurova-must-pay-about-1-56-billion-to-recover-turkcell-stake.html
Cukurova Holding AS must pay $1.56
billion to recover a disputed 13.7 percent stake in  Turkey ’s
biggest mobile-phone operator from Russian  Alfa Group , raising
investors’ hopes for a payout of unpaid dividends between 2010
and 2012.  A ruling by the U.K. Privy Council in  London  today should
allow Cukurova to regain control of  Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri
AS (TCELL)  after an almost decade-long battle with Alfa. The sum must be
paid to an Alfa unit within 60 days, Judge Jonathan Mance said.  The amount the court required Cukurova to pay is less than
the $1.6 billion to $2.3 billion expected by analysts, including
Istanbul-based Global Securities. The lower end of the range
should enable Cukurova to more easily find financing, Global
Securities said in an e-mailed note.  “Our initial reaction is that the Turkish shareholder can
secure the funding within the stated date, meaning” it “can
regain control of Turkcell,” said Alper Ozdemir, an analyst
from Istanbul-based Oyak Securities, in an e-mailed note.  Turkcell has been at the center of a dispute between its
founder Mehmet Emin Karamehmet, who owns Cukurova, Nordic
operator TeliaSonera AB and  Mikhail Fridman , the Russian
billionaire who controls Alfa Group. Alfa seized the Turkcell
stake when it said Cukurova defaulted on a 2005 loan agreement
for which the shares were pledged as collateral.  Clear Ownership  “Dividends are becoming more likely with clear
ownership,” Torsten Achtmann, a telecoms analyst at JPMorgan
Cazenove in London, said in an e-mailed note. “Once Cukurova
has regained the stake in Turkcell we expect that an annual
general meeting will be held with board representatives from
Turkcell Holdings. We expect that Cukurova will reinitiate
dividend payments of Turkcell.”  Dividends from 2010 and 2011 profits had been blocked by
TeliaSonera and Altimo, Alfa Group’s telecom unit, in an attempt
to force Chairman  Colin Williams  from the board. Dividends from
2012 weren’t paid because there was no quorum in the
 shareholders’ meeting  on June 24.  Turkish regulators appointed three independent board
members of Turkcell in March to help resolve board disputes. A
law passed last weekend enables the capital markets regulator to
appoint board members to convene shareholders meeting and
distribute dividends at companies where shareholders are in
dispute.  Blue Sky  Achtmann said he expects dividend payments of $1.5 billion,
and in a “blue-sky scenario” they could go up to as much as
$3.8 billion should the shareholders agree on a leveraged
“special dividend” from the company’s cash position of about
$2 billion.  Today’s decision specifies the time limit “to finally
clarify shareholders’ status in Turkcell and to completely
restore corporate governance,” in the company, Evgeny Dumalkin,
spokesman for Altimo, said in an e-mailed statement.  The amount of $1.56 billion decided by the court includes
Cukurova’s principal debt of $1.35 billion to Alfa and accrued
total interest of $541 million, Dumalkin said. It also includes
$329 million paid by a Cukurova to Alfa on March 1, he said.  Asset Seizure  Cukurova “will be able to regain” the Turkcell stake by
paying Alfa its debt and interest in 60 days, the company said
in an e-mailed statement. Cukurova didn’t specify whether or how
it will finance the repayment.  The government seized several assets of Cukurova, which has
interest in energy, banking, transportation and construction, in
May after the group failed to repay installments on its $455
million debt to a government fund over a failed bank.  The assets, which include media, truck making and packaging
units, are being sold to repay the debt.  Turkcell  shares  rose as much as 4.9 percent to 11.75 liras
in Borsa Istanbul, highest level since May 31. Turkcell rose 2.2
percent to 11.45 liras at 4:57 p.m.  Cukurova shouldn’t have to pay interest accrued from 2007
to 2010 because Alfa rejected an early repayment offer and “was
only interested in the ownership of the shares and control of
Turkcell,” the Privy Council said in a  summary  of the ruling.  The court included interest of 8 percent over the Libor
rate from 2010 through today in the $1.56 billion figure.
Cukurova must pay any interest accrued from today until the date
of payment.  Complicated Structure  About a third of Turkcell’s shares are traded in Istanbul
and  New York . Sweden-based  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN)  is the biggest
stakeholder with 38 percent stake at Turkcell. Still, Cukurova
controls the company through a complicated shareholder structure
while Alfa owns 13.2 percent.  Cukurova and Alfa agreed in 2005 on a finance package
totaling $3.3 billion as the Istanbul-based investor was seeking
$2 billion to repay debt to the government after the collapse of
a bank it had owned.  Cukurova and Alfa signed the agreement, which included a
$1.7 billion loan for which 13.7 percent of Turkcell shares were
pledged as collateral, after Cukurova pulled out of an earlier
accord with TeliaSonera to sell a controlling stake at the
mobile-phone operator for $3.1 billion. That prompted the Nordic
company to sue to enforce the sale.  TeliaSonera welcomed the U.K. court’s ruling as “a step
towards a long overdue resolution of the deadlock.”  It said Cukurova will also have to pay the Nordic company
$932 million plus interest over a 2011 decision by the
 International Chamber of Commerce , a Paris-based tribunal that
resolves commercial disputes. The dispute arises from Cukurova’s
failure to abide by its agreement with TeliaSonera in 2005, the
company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net ; Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
3909 or  eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  