-- Zeman Defies Critics With Cabinet Picks as Showdown Looms
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-07-10T15:30:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/czech-interim-cabinet-to-take-office-with-hands-tied-on-budget.html
Czech President Milos Zeman named an
interim government, asking it to face down threats from
lawmakers to block the cabinet’s legislation and budget plans
amid a record-long recession.  Zeman announced the new cabinet, which includes Jan Fischer
as finance minister, today at the  Prague  Castle, the seat of the
Czech presidency. The three parties that made up the previous
ruling coalition oppose his pick for premier, technocrat Jiri Rusnok, saying they still command a majority in parliament.  “Do not get discouraged by media criticism from the
envious chumps who never accomplished anything real in their
lives,” Zeman said. “I want to thank all members of this
government for the courage with which they entered this cabinet.
There is a lack of courage in Czech politics.”  Zeman, the Czech Republic’s first directly elected head of
state, picked economist Rusnok to replace Prime Minister Petr Necas, who resigned last month amid a spying and bribery
scandal. His move snubbed the three-party coalition that had
backed Necas and wants to stay in power to avoid early
elections. It plans to challenge Rusnok in a confidence vote and
block his proposals for fiscal stimulus including infrastructure
spending.  “Maneuvering room with this year’s budget isn’t large,”
 Pavel Sobisek , chief economist at UniCredit Bank Czech Republic,
said yesterday by phone. “Assuming this government loses the
confidence vote, any initiative in parliament will face an
impenetrable wall.”  Record Slump  The political turmoil risks snarling policy debates and
extending the country’s longest  recession  on record, with the
poll-leading  Social Democrats  demanding early elections.
Rusnok’s government must survive a confidence motion in the
lower house of parliament to be held within his first 30 days in
charge.  “The fundamental priority is to reverse the trend from the
past several quarters, when the performance of the Czech economy
resembled a walk downstairs, to revive growth,” Fischer told
reporters in Prague today. “Fiscal policy must be pro-active in
this matter. The state must primarily save on its own
operations. I’m prepared to boost funds going to infrastructure,
to research, universities.”  Rusnok said he won’t seek to change the 2013 budget
parameters, and will try to use more funds from the EU or money
from state companies lying idle in bank accounts for pro-growth
spending.  Bond Yield  The yield on 10-year government koruna debt, which reached
an all-time low 1.48 percent on May 17, fell 6 basis points, or
0.06 percentage point, to 2.136 percent today, holding 54 basis
points below comparable U.S. Treasuries, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Borrowing costs plunged under Necas, who in his three years
in power focused on narrowing the  budget deficit  by cutting
investment and raising taxes. Those policies also damped
household spending and fueled  six consecutive quarters  of
economic contraction through March, the central bank has said.  The Civic Democrats, the strongest party in the previous
administration, urged Rusnok to ask for a confidence vote as
early as possible after his Cabinet is named.  “Knowing that his government can’t push through the state
budget law, any delay of the confidence motion would endanger
the Czech economy and mean a risk of a provisional budget,” the
party said in a statement on June 27.  Snap Election  The former pro-austerity coalition is trying to prevent the
early ballot demanded by Social Democrats, who’ve pledged higher
taxes and spending to pull the $217 billion  economy  out of its
 recession .  Rusnok chose Fischer as finance minister to help invigorate
the economy. The 62-year-old, who studied statistics and
econometrics at Prague’s University of Economics, led a
temporary Cabinet for a year before the 2010 elections, during
which time the country suffered its deepest economic
contraction.  If Rusnok’s government fails to win a simple majority in
the confidence vote, it would stay in office on a caretaker
basis and Zeman has no constitutional deadline to name a
replacement before the next scheduled elections in May 2014.  Spending Levels  While that would allow it to draft a budget for next year,
its proposals would probably be opposed by lawmakers from the
former coalition, limiting non-mandatory spending at 2013
levels, according to UniCredit’s Sobisek.  The  Czech Republic  has a history of political instability,
notching up seven prime ministers in the past decade, more than
any other European Union nation.  Finance Minister Fischer experienced the limitations of an
interim government’s mandate in 2009, when lawmakers pushed
through changes to his draft budget that widened the deficit
against his will.  His ability to shape the state budget may be restrained
again, according to Jan Vejmelek, chief economist at Komercni
Banka AS in Prague.  “Revenue and expenditure frameworks are pretty set and the
political representation wouldn’t allow a caretaker minister to
push through any major changes,” Vejmelek said July 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  