-- Deere to Vivendi Sell Bonds as Yields Decline to Three-Week Low
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l   a n d   V e r i t y   R a t c l i f f e
-- 2013-07-09T15:04:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/deere-to-vivendi-plan-to-sell-bonds-as-yields-in-europe-decline.html
Deere & Co. (DE)  sold its first euro-denominated bonds in two years and  Vivendi SA (VIV)  issued its first
securities in eight months as yields on European corporate debt
fell to the lowest in almost three weeks.  The world’s largest agricultural-equipment maker issued 300
million euros ($386 million) of five-year notes, while Vivendi,
the Paris-based media-to-telecommunications company, sold 750
million euros of securities, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Continental AG (CON)  and  Fiat SpA (F)  are also selling bonds in
the single currency.  Companies in Europe are returning to credit markets after
the  European Central Bank  and the  Bank of England  signaled they
will keep  interest rates  low for the foreseeable future. The
yield investors demand to hold investment-grade bonds fell to
2.07 percent, the lowest since June 19, while the average rate
on junk-rated notes dropped to a 2 1/2-week low of 6.02 percent,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  “The market hasn’t been particularly prolific over the
past few weeks or so and now that we are heading into the summer
period borrowers want to get some deals away,” said  Suki Mann ,
a London-based strategist at Societe Generale SA. Companies may
want to issue sooner rather than later on concern that yields
will climb, he said.  The proceeds of Vivendi’s notes due January 2019 will be
used to help refinance bonds maturing next year, said a person
familiar with the sale.  In the high-yield market, Continental, Europe’s second-biggest auto-parts supplier, sold 750 million euros of bonds to
yield 3.25 percent, according to a person familiar with the
offering. The five-year bonds will help finance the early
redemption of higher interest debt, the company said in a
statement yesterday.  Italian Issuers  Fiat, based in Turin, is marketing 850 million euros of
notes due October 2019 that will yield 6.75 percent, a person
familiar with the matter said.  Amplifon SpA (AMP) , the world’s largest hearing-aid distributor,
raised 275 million euros from five-year bonds that were priced
to yield 5 percent. It was the Milan-based company’s first bond
sale in the currency, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There’s a better market backdrop which is helping these
deals to get printed today,” said Umang Vithlani, head of
credit at Fideuram Asset Management in Dublin, which oversees 3
billion euros. “But next week or even later this week, the
market could turn again. It is a volatile period and the market
is sentiment-driven week to week.”  Credit Risk  The cost of insuring European corporate debt against
default fell to the lowest in more than a month. The Markit
iTraxx Crossover Index of default swaps on 50 companies with
high-yield credit ratings fell 8 basis points to 434 basis
points at 3:27 p.m. in  London , the lowest level since June 4.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of contracts on 125
investment-grade companies dropped four basis points to 107
basis points, the lowest since June 10.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katie Linsell in Madrid at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net ;
Verity Ratcliffe in London at 
 vratcliffe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  