-- Dell’s Hawaiian Resort Gets $225 Million Starwood Loan
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2013-07-09T22:44:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/dell-s-hawaiian-resort-gets-225-million-starwood-loan.html
The Four Seasons Resort Hualalai, a
Hawaiian vacation property co-owned by  Michael Dell ’s MSD
Capital LP, is getting a $225 million mortgage from  Starwood
Property Trust Inc. (STWD)   The loan has a five-year maturity and two one-year
extension options, Starwood, a Greenwich, Connecticut-based real
estate finance company, said in a statement today.  The new debt replaces a $176 million loan that was backed
by the resort’s hotel and a leasehold interest in the land. That
loan had been sent to a firm specializing in troubled debt when
it matured in June 2012, according to  Morningstar Inc. (MORN) ’s
Structured Credit Ratings unit. The property had been hurt by
declining travel to the area after the credit crisis and damage
from the 2011 Japanese tsunami. MSD Capital and Rockpoint Group
LLC bought the real estate in 2006, according to  Fitch Ratings .  “We are pleased to leverage our scale, flexible capital
and deep underwriting experience to provide this large, complex
loan, secured by one of Hawaii’s most high-profile properties,
to world-class sponsors,” Boyd Fellows, president of Starwood
Property Trust, said in the statement.  Demand at the the 865-acre (350-hectare) resort on the Big
Island, which also includes a master-planned community, is
increasing amid a travel rebound, Patrick Fitzgerald, the
resort’s chief executive officer, said in January. While the Big
Island has lagged behind  Oahu  in its recovery, the Hualalai
resort has benefited from renovations and the Four Seasons
branding, according to Joseph Toy, CEO of Honolulu-based
consultant Hospitality Advisors LLC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  