-- Dell Deadline Looms to Win Over Investors on Buyout Deal
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2013-07-09T20:05:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/dell-deadline-looms-to-win-over-investors-on-buyout-deal.html
Michael Dell’s planned buyout of the
personal-computer maker he founded isn’t in the bag yet.  A fifth of Dell’s shares are held by investors including
Southeastern Asset Management Inc. and activist  Carl Icahn , who
oppose the deal, even after the $24.4 billion buyout proposal
from Chief Executive Officer Dell and partner  Silver Lake 
Management LLC got a surprise endorsement yesterday from
Institutional Shareholder Services Inc. Two other shareholder-advisory firms followed suit.  That leaves Michael Dell just 10 days until a July 18 vote
to win over undecided investors whose support could tip the deal
in his favor. A special committee of Dell’s board overseeing the
transaction is meeting with major shareholders to seek backing
for the buyout, and encouraging the CEO to do the same, a person
familiar with the situation said. A failure to clinch a vote for
the offer could send Dell’s shares plunging and cloud the
company’s future.  “There are still several possibilities and there is a risk
that the deal falls through,” said  Bill Kreher , an analyst at
Edward Jones & Co. in  St. Louis  who has a hold rating on Dell
shares.  Those hurdles were underlined yesterday when Icahn and
Southeastern repeated their opposition to the buyout, which they
said undervalues the PC maker. They were joined by another Dell
shareholder, Yacktman Asset Management Co., which said it
supports an alternative proposal from Icahn and Southeastern.  Majority Vote  The $13.65-a-share buyout proposal from Dell and Silver
Lake requires a majority of votes to pass, excluding the CEO’s
own 16 percent stake in the  Round Rock , Texas-based company.  Icahn, Southeastern and others opposed to the deal own more
than 20 percent of Dell shares, according to a separate report
yesterday from shareholder adviser Glass, Lewis & Co., which
also backed the Silver Lake-led buyout proposal. Investors who
owned Dell stock as of June 3 are eligible to vote their shares.  Getting to a majority vote may require some lobbying from
 Michael Dell  and Silver Lake. While Dell’s special committee is
meeting with shareholders and has asked CEO Dell to do so as
well, Silver Lake has declined to take part in those meetings
because it regards itself as a minority investor in the buyout
effort, according to a person familiar with the situation, who
asked not to be identified because these meetings are private.  Best Interests  Dell’s special committee declined to comment on what it
will take to win the vote. In a statement yesterday, the
committee said it was pleased ISS and other advisory firms had
endorsed the buyout offer and said “a sale of Dell for $13.65
per share in cash will provide certainty of value at a
substantial premium, and is therefore in the best interests of
shareholders.”  Dell  shares  dropped less than 1 percent to $13.36 at the
close in  New York .  In its recommendation, ISS cited a 25.5 percent premium to
Dell’s unaffected share price before the transaction was
proposed and the certainty of value provided by an all-cash
offer. The buyout plan would also shelter shareholders from
risks tied to the deteriorating PC business, ISS said in its
report.  “The alternative to accepting the buyout offer is to
continue holding equity in a publicly traded Dell, with
continued exposure to the risks and rewards of ownership,” ISS
said.  The ISS backing provides more ammunition to Michael Dell,
who according to people familiar with the matter wasn’t planning
to sweeten the bid.  Delaware Hearing  Already last month, a Delaware Chancery Court declined a
request by Icahn and other investors to block the deal, which
they argued was the result of a flawed sales process.  “I do not see any plausible, conceivable basis in which to
conclude that it is a colorable possibility that you could deem
the choices made by this board to be unreasonable with all the
different safeguards,” Judge Leo Strine said at June 19
hearing.  If Michael Dell’s deal was mispriced, a higher buyout offer
would have emerged, Strine said, and Icahn’s alternative
proposal isn’t a full takeover.  Close Race  “Icahn had momentum last week,” said  Brian White , an
analyst at Topeka Capital Markets who recommends buying Dell
shares. “Now with ISS coming back and supporting Dell, it’s a
closer race.”  In response to the ISS decision, Icahn and Southeastern
said, “We continue to believe that Dell’s owners deserve better
and can achieve more by voting against” the buyout. Icahn and
Southeastern own a combined 12.8 percent stake in Dell,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  That view was backed by Yacktman Asset Management, owns
less than 1 percent of Dell’s shares, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “We find it ironic that when a Dell management that has
historically overpaid for acquisitions finally attempts to make
a large acquisition at a price we find attractive, it is at the
expense of Dell shareholders,” Yacktman said in a statement
yesterday.  Officials at another Dell shareholder,  Pzena Investment
Management Inc. (PZN) , which has opposed the buyout, didn’t return
calls seeking comment.  Alternative Proposal  Michael Dell has said taking the company private will let
him rebuild it as a supplier of data-center equipment and
software to curb reliance on the flagging PC market after years
of lackluster  growth .  Under an alternative proposal, Icahn has pressed Dell to
buy back about 1.1 billion shares at $14 apiece, while leaving
the remainder of the company public. Icahn has said Dell has a
brighter future ahead and current shareholders should have the
chance to participate in a turnaround. Last week, Icahn said he
obtained $5.2 billion in debt financing to support his latest
effort to derail the proposed buyout.  For Icahn’s own plan to succeed, however, he must convince
shareholders to reject Dell’s buyout. Then, Icahn needs them to
back his efforts to gain control of the board in a proxy contest
in which Michael Dell’s vote will count.  Dell’s woes have been compounded as the PC market has
declined. PC shipments plummeted 14 percent in the first
quarter, the steepest decline since market researcher IDC began
tracking data in 1994. IDC, which projects that shipments will
tumble 7.8 percent this year, is scheduled to release second-quarter PC market results July 10.  Dorm Room  Dell, who founded the company in his University of Texas
dorm room in 1984 and took it public four years later, rose to
become the world’s top PC maker with a manufacturing system that
turned out the machines faster and more cheaply than
competitors. As the computing market has shifted toward mobile
devices like tablets and smartphones, Dell has struggled to
remake itself.  Sales in fiscal 2012 declined 8.3 percent to $56.9 billion
and net income tumbled 32 percent to $2.37 billion. This year,
Dell is expected to earn $1.44 billion, less than half seen in
2005, according to the average of analysts’ estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  