-- Democrat Embraces Republican in Unlikely Big Tax Law Bid
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-07-09T19:18:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/democrat-embraces-republican-in-unlikely-big-tax-law-bid.html
Senator  Max Baucus  and Representative
 Dave Camp , wearing pink hairnets, yellow hard hats and three-quarter-length baker’s aprons, ducked beneath a river of warm
hamburger buns in Minnesota as they searched for a path around
the obstacles they’re encountering in Washington.  The bipartisan duo is trying to rewrite the U.S. tax code
in the next 18 months by leveraging their friendship into
legislation. They brought their chummy rapport -- Democrat
Baucus introduced Republican Camp as his “buddy” and
“comrade” -- to Baldinger Bakery in  St. Paul  and  3M Co. (MMM) ’s
headquarters in Maplewood yesterday at the start of a national
tour intended to take them outside the Washington bubble.  The roadshow, burgers-and-beer lunches and what Baucus
described as the “glue and trust” of their relationship are
part of the pair’s attempt to overcome tax-policy inertia. The
partisan divide over tax increases, the challenge of removing
breaks embedded in the economy and the lack of an immediate
deadline conspire to make the task difficult.  “What they’re doing is necessary for success, but I’m not
sure if it’s sufficient for success,” said  Keith Hennessey , a
lecturer at  Stanford University ’s business and law schools who
was an economic adviser to President  George W. Bush . “The
debate oversimplifies the legislative task that needs to be
undertaken and therefore it makes it seem like  tax reform  should
be easier than it actually is to do.”  Multinational Corporations  U.S. multinational corporations such as 3M are counting on
the Baucus-Camp effort to enact a lower corporate  tax  rate and
changes to international tax rules. Companies are holding about
$2 trillion in untaxed profits outside the country in part
because of tax rules.  Baucus, of Montana, and Camp, of Michigan, have been the
top two tax-writers in Congress since January 2011, and they’ve
been building toward this final push. An agreement may lead to
limits on individuals’ mortgage-interest deduction and a simpler
system that would prompt fewer people to use tax preparers.  Failure to agree could require a restart after January
2015, when the two will give up their positions as leaders of
Congress’s tax-writing committees. Baucus plans to retire, while
Camp faces a Republican Party term limit for committee chairmen.  Camp, who turns 60 today, has pledged to get the Ways and
Means Committee he leads to approve a bill by the end of 2014.
He wants to lower individual and corporate tax rates without
raising additional revenue.  ‘Stumbling Block’  Baucus and other Democrats want a revenue increase, and
that divide is a “stumbling block to even getting started,”
Senator  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky, the chamber’s Republican
leader, said today.  “So I don’t see how we get anywhere, candidly,” he said.
“The point of this ought to be to make our country more
competitive, not to give the government more revenue.”  Senate Finance Committee Chairman Baucus, 71, is working
with  Orrin Hatch  of Utah, the panel’s top Republican, on a
blank-slate approach. They’ve given other senators until July 26
to explain the need for every tax break or risk its elimination.  “It puts pressure on those who want to justify adding back
a deduction or a credit or what-not,” Baucus said.  Through joint hearings and weekly meetings over the past
few years, the Camp-Baucus relationship deepened, making the
tour that started yesterday possible.  Dinner Date  They had dinner in Minnesota July 7 while their Washington-based staff was stuck in airline delays. Yesterday, they
marveled at flexible transparent film at 3M’s Innovation Center
and took questions from employees who wanted to know why the
legislative process appeared so broken.  The visit to Baldinger gave them a chance to crack a few
jokes -- Camp said the yeasty-smelling factory meant the “aroma
of tax reform” was in the air -- and tour a 125-year-old
family-owned business that pays taxes through its owners’
individual returns.  The bakery, which supplies  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  restaurants,
benefited from one of the tax breaks Baucus and Camp may
consider eliminating.  Baldinger used a New Markets Tax Credit for investments in
struggling areas to help finance its $30 million, two-year-old
facility, which produces more than 5,000-dozen buns an hour on
an assembly line that’s far more efficient than the process for
making  tax  law.  Revenue Dispute  Camp and Baucus have inevitable differences on policy,
including some that surfaced yesterday.  Baucus, like most Democrats, wants a new  tax code  to raise
more money to help reduce future budget deficits. Camp doesn’t.  Camp is aiming for a 25 percent corporate  tax rate , down
from the current 35 percent, the highest in the world. Baucus
called that a “bit of a stretch” yesterday.  Camp favors a territorial international tax system that
would lighten the burden on companies’ overseas income. Baucus
hasn’t endorsed the idea.  Still, Camp told 3M employees “it doesn’t take a
scientist” to figure out that compromise will have to happen,
based on the divided control of Congress and the White House.  “There will be partisan differences, but ultimately there
will be a bipartisan bill,” Camp said.  1986 Model  Through a series of one-day trips, Baucus and Camp are
attempting to build the kind of public momentum that existed in
1986, when Republican Senator Bob Packwood of Oregon and
Democratic Representative Dan Rostenkowski of Illinois rewrote
the tax code.  Baucus and Camp have created a shared website and Twitter
handle --  www.taxreform.gov  and @simplertaxes -- and make a
point of touting their bipartisan partnership as the best hope
for tax changes.  Today, the two held a second burgers-and-beer lunch at a
bar near the Capitol with eight fellow House and Senate members.
It was a bipartisan gathering -- those attending included
Wisconsin Representative  Paul Ryan  and Georgia Senator  Johnny Isakson , both Republicans, and Connecticut Representative John Larson and Maryland Senator  Ben Cardin , both Democrats.  As in 1986, the Senate and the White House belong to one
party and the  House of Representatives  is held by the other. The
solution offered by the tax-writers is similar -- broaden the
tax base, lower rates, make the code simpler.  Change Roadblocks  The significant obstacles faced by Baucus and Camp include
President Barack Obama’s limited interest in tax changes, the
partisan divide in Congress, and their own reluctance to repeat
the 1986 model that shifted some of the tax burden from
individuals to corporations.  “People were ready for it” in 1986, said Thomas
Hungerford, director of tax and budget policy at the Economic
Policy Institute in Washington, which advocates for low- and
middle-income workers. “Congress was ready for it. The
administration was ready for it. And I just don’t see that
now.”  Before Baucus and Camp can get to the negotiating table,
each will likely have to produce a bill.  Closing industry-specific loopholes goes only so far. Any
significant rate reduction would require curtailing some of the
most popular tax breaks, such as the deductions for home-mortgage interest and business interest payments.  NASCAR Racetracks  “Everybody thinks that tax reform is all about getting rid
of accelerated depreciation for NASCAR racetracks,” Hennessey
said. “All the money is in the big five or six or seven
provisions.”  Baucus must get Senate Republicans interested enough in his
plan to set aside their ability to block legislation. He also
needs to avoid alienating his fellow Democrats, who have a 54-46
majority in the chamber and produced a budget he voted against
in part because he believed it would raise taxes too much.  “I get nervous about where Senator Baucus is coming
from,” said Senator  Bernard Sanders , a Vermont independent who
caucuses with Democrats and said tax changes should produce
“substantial” additional revenue, including from corporations.
Sanders spoke with reporters today after Baucus briefed the
Democratic caucus on his plans.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said
he supports Baucus’s approach.  More Opportunities  “We’re going to have to have a lot more opportunities for
senators to talk about this and we’ll do that,” Reid said
today.  Camp must navigate a bill through the fractious House
Republicans or look for Democratic votes there.  Baucus said he’s heard a “few naysayers” dismissing their
chances and said he will prove them wrong.  “At least they’re talking to one another,” said
Hungerford, a former analyst at the  Congressional Research
Service . “From where I’m sitting, it looks like a cordial
relationship. Still, I think that things are very different in
the House and in the Senate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  