-- Deutsche Annington to Seek Up to $763 Million in IPO
-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2013-07-09T19:51:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/deutsche-annington-to-seek-up-to-763-million-in-ipo.html
Deutsche Annington Immobilien SE,
 Germany ’s largest residential landlord, is going ahead with an
initial public offering that would raise about half the amount
originally planned a week after postponing the sale.  Deutsche Annington, controlled by Guy Hands’s Terra Firma
Capital Partners Ltd., plans to raise as much as 592.4 million
euros ($763 million), the company said in a statement today. It
had previously sought 1.1 billion euros.  “While the implementation of our operating strategy
continues well on track, a successful IPO enables us to
accelerate the diversification of our funding,” Chief Executive
Officer Rolf Buch said in the statement.  Deutsche Annington, based in Bochum, postponed its IPO on
July 2, citing adverse market conditions. The initial attempt
failed because demand wasn’t strong enough, people familiar with
the matter said at the time. The banks managing the revived
deal, including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS) , have
enough demand for all the shares being offered, a person with
knowledge of the matter said. The person asked not to be
identified because the information is private.  “The pricing is now at a reasonable range and relatively
more attractive than the peer group previously,” said Peter Papadakos, an analyst at Green Street Advisors in London.  Greater Dilution  The shares will be offered for 16.50 euros to 17 euros,
Deutsche Annington said, compared with as much as 21 euros in
the original range. The company aims to raise 412.1 million
euros from the sale of new shares, 103 million euros from a
secondary offering of shares and another 77.3 million in an
overallotment, according to the statement.  While the size of the secondary offering has been reduced,
Deutsche Annington is selling more new shares than planned. As a
result, existing investors will see a greater dilution of their
stakes, Papadakos said. The selling shareholders are offering
10.6 million shares, according to today’s statement. They
originally planned to sell as many as 34.8 million.  Deutsche Annington would be the second German property
company to list its shares this year.  LEG Immobilien AG (LEG) , a
Dusseldorf-based competitor, raised about 1.3 billion euros in
stock sale in February that was the largest in Germany’s real
estate industry. The shares have since dropped by about 10.5
percent.  Deutsche Annington said 15.5 percent of the shares will be
freely traded after the IPO, assuming investors buy all the
stock available in the overallotment option.  The sale will be run through an accelerated bookbuilding
process, Deutsche Annington said. The shares would begin trading
July 11, the company said.  Deutsche Annington owns about 180,000 German apartments and
has about 2,400 employees, according to its website. Terra Firma
is a private-equity firm based in London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ruth David in  London  at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  