-- Meat Producers Sue Over Country-of-Origin Labeling Rules
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   J e n   S k e r r i t t
-- 2013-07-09T21:17:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/meat-industry-groups-sue-u-s-over-country-of-origin-labeling.html
U.S. meat industry groups, joined by
Canadian counterparts, sued the Agriculture Department seeking
to block rules requiring meat producers to increase the amount
of information about countries of origin on their products.  Regulations adopted in May require producers to specify
where an animal was born, raised and slaughtered. Retail
packages can’t mix muscle cuts from different countries under a
general label, the groups said yesterday in a federal court
complaint in  Washington .  “Imported livestock are a critical supply for American
processing plants, particularly those near the Canadian and
Mexican borders,” lawyers for groups including the American
Meat Institute and the Canadian Cattlemen’s Association said in
the complaint. “Labels will require the transmission of
extensive detail and paperwork,” and “defendants concede that
there is no health or safety reason” not to commingle meats,
they said.  Meat producers asked for a ruling that the new regulations
are unconstitutional, an order to stop their enforcement, and an
award of legal fees.  The original rules came into effect in 2009 in response to
the discovery of bovine spongiform encephalopathy, also known as
mad cow disease, in a Canadian animal in 2003. Canada and  Mexico 
told the World Trade Organization that the rules discriminated
against their products.  Increased Losses  The Canadian livestock industry has lost an estimated $C650
million ($617 million) annually since 2009, and losses will
increase if the revised rules come into full effect, Travis
Toews, a past-president of the Canadian Cattlemen’s Association,
said in a telephone interview. The vast majority of U.S. meat-packers who process Canadian cattle will probably stop because
the “draconian” regulations that ban comingling will make it
too onerous to segregate animals in the supply chain, he said.  “It takes county-of-origin labeling and puts it on
steroids, so to speak,” Toews said of the revised rules. “It’s
going to be much tougher.”  The industry groups allege the revised rules violate the
U.S. Constitution by compelling speech “in the form of costly
and detailed labels on meat products” that will confuse
consumers, raise prices and put some producers out of business,
according to a meat institute press release.  The “USDA remains confident that these changes will
improve the overall operation of the program,” spokeswoman
Michelle Saghafi said in an e-mail. The changes will bring
requirements “into compliance with U.S. international trade
obligations.”  Agriculture Minister  The lawsuit means the U.S. will be more likely to address
the dispute, Canadian Agriculture Minister Gerry Ritz said in a
telephone interview.  The producers contend that new labeling equipment alone
might cost the industry more than $192 million.  The Canadian government released a list of products
imported from the U.S that may be  targeted  in retaliation for
the label rules in June, including corn, cheese and beef.  “This is not a trade war, this is American industry suing
their administration for putting in place rules and a
description of the rule that is counter to common sense and
counter to business being done,” Ritz said. “We welcome this
next shot across the bow.”  The case is American Meat Institute v. U.S. Department of
Agriculture, 13-cv-01033, U.S. District Court, District of
Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Jen Skerritt in Winnipeg at 
 jskerritt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  