-- Ecuador May ‘Adjust’ Banks’ Interest Rates to Stabilize Lending
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2013-07-09T20:31:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/ecuador-may-adjust-banks-interest-rates-to-stabilize-lending.html
Ecuador ’s central bank may “adjust”
the maximum  interest rates  the nation’s lenders can charge for
the first time since 2010 as global credit costs rise on signs
the  Federal Reserve  will wind down its stimulus measures.  “We are analyzing the possibility of making an adjustment
in the interest rates, not just in corporate rates, but also in
consumer and micro credit rates, to allow credit to remain at an
adequate level,” central bank President Diego Martinez said
today in an interview in Cartagena,  Colombia . “More than the
speed at which it grows, we are interested that credit stays in
magnitudes that are stable, and that monetary aggregates are
stable, and not going up and down like a roller coaster.”  The availability of credit in Ecuador, which uses the  U.S.
dollar  as its official currency, remains “high,” though it’s
not growing at the speed of previous years, Martinez said. While
economic growth in 2013 is forecast to slow to its lowest rate
in three years, local banks are raising their borrowing costs
toward their legal limits as profits plummet amid the
government’s new regulations and procedure.  Banks’ combined profits, including Banco Pichincha CA and
 Banco de Guayaquil SA , Ecuador’s two biggest publicly-traded
lenders, tumbled 42 percent in the first quarter, the biggest
decline for the period since 2003, after Correa fast-tracked a
tax bill through Congress during his re-election campaign last
year forcing financial institutions to pay for a 43 percent
boost in cash subsidies to low-income families.  Fed Stimulus  The losses are being compounded by a rout in emerging
market assets and an increase in global interest rates sparked
by Fed Chairman  Ben Bernanke ’s announcement last month that the
Fed could reduce the pace of its record asset purchases used to
restart the  U.S. economy .  The total volume of new loans granted by private banks and
financial institutions fell 16 percent in May from a month
earlier, its biggest drop since January 2011, according to the
central bank.  Martinez said Banco Central del Ecuador is also trying to
avoid a drop in local liquidity levels to maintain dollarization
by limiting the flow of capital out of the economy.  “Ecuador, unfortunately, not having its own currency,
depends a lot on the velocity at which dollars enter and also
the velocity at which they leave,” Martinez said. “Our aim is
that the speed at which they enter is always higher than the
speed at which they leave.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Cartagena at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
 Nathan Gill  in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  