-- Mega-Bridge Tests Yudhoyono With Legacy in Focus: Southeast Asia
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2013-07-10T04:09:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/mega-bridge-tests-yudhoyono-with-legacy-in-focus-southeast-asia.html
For Aat Djunaidi, a 12-hour wait to
catch a ferry linking  Indonesia ’s most-populous islands isn’t so
bad. On some trips the 41-year-old waits for two days before his
truck can cross the Sunda Strait from Java into Sumatra.  “If they build a bridge, it would take just 20 minutes to
cross,” Djunaidi, who makes the journey three times a week to
transport Suzuki motorcycles, said while waiting at the back of
a four-kilometer (2.4-mile) queue. “I’d be happy if I get to
use the bridge in my lifetime.”  Indonesia will soon decide whether to proceed with what
would be the world’s largest suspension bridge, according to
Luky Eko Wuryanto, a deputy minister overseeing infrastructure
projects. First conceived half a century ago, the planned  29-kilometer link  that would cost an estimated $15 billion has
spawned a debate over the best way to reduce logistics costs in
a country with more than 17,000 islands and 250 million people.  While advocates say the bridge will bring new investment to
 Southeast Asia ’s biggest economy, detractors see it as a
liability that could jeopardize economic gains President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  has made since taking office in 2004. With a
year left in his final term and his party’s popularity sagging,
any decision to push ahead with the bridge may have more to do
with securing votes and less to do with economic benefits.  “He wants to leave these tangible, physical legacies, and
the bridge is clearly one of them,” said Hal Hill, a professor
of Southeast Asia economies at  Australian National University  in
Canberra who advises the  World Bank  and  Asian Development Bank .
“The real worry, and in fact the likelihood I think, is that
this bridge would become a white elephant. It would not just be
costly, but it would actually blow up Indonesia’s well deserved
achievement of macroeconomic stability.”  Investment Grade  Yudhoyono has seen Indonesia raised to investment grade
since 2011 as economic growth rates exceeded 4 percent during
the global financial crisis. Last month he raised fuel prices to
cut an annual subsidy bill of more than $20 billion that is
sapping funds needed for roads and bridges that could propel the
economy toward his goal of 9 percent annual growth.  The fuel subsidy cut will lead to more spending next year
on public works, energy and infrastructure projects, Aldian
Taloputra, an economist at PT Mandiri Sekuritas, said today in a
note citing Bambang Brodjonegoro, head of the  finance ministry ’s
fiscal policy office.  Even so, corruption scandals and price rises have damped
support for his Democrat party, which has yet to announce its
nominee for next year’s presidential election. An Indonesia
Research Center survey conducted in May found that 57 percent of
respondents said they were not satisfied with Yudhoyono’s
presidency, the Jakarta Globe  reported . The poll had a 2.3
percent margin of error.  Bridging History  The plan for a bridge linking Java and Sumatra dates back
to 1960, when Indonesia’s first president, Soekarno, put it in a
national development plan. After decades with little progress,
the project was revived in 2004 in part by the  Artha Graha
Network , a conglomerate owned by Tomy Winata, who also plans to
build Jakarta’s biggest building. Winata has listed holdings of
$59 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Yudhoyono threw his support behind the Sunda Strait Bridge
during his first term in office. While campaigning for re-election in 2009, he told residents on the Sumatra side of the
strait that work on the bridge would start within five years. As
recently as March, he said the  bridge must proceed  given its
strategic importance in the longer term, the Jakarta Globe
reported.  Feasibility Study  Wrangling over how best to conduct a feasibility study has
stalled things since 2011, when Yudhoyono listed the bridge as
the most expensive among  400 infrastructure projects  to
jumpstart the economy. Of those, work has started on 603
trillion rupiah ($61 billion) worth of projects, or 12 percent
of the total value, according to Wuryanto, deputy coordinating
minister for the economy.  A ministerial team will soon decide how to proceed,
Wuryanto said by phone on June 24. The finance ministry has
opposed Winata’s group conducting the feasibility study on its
own due to concerns over the independence of the results, he
said, adding that state-run companies may now get involved.  “They will be asked to do a feasibility study and that’s
not cheap,” Wuryanto said of the state-run companies. “Such an
expenditure will have to go through a consultation with
legislators, and the question is whether they would allow
this.”  Bridge Backers  Even so, the bridge has backers within the administration.
Coordinating Minister for Economic Affairs Hatta Rajasa told
reporters last week the bridge will begin construction soon, the
Jakarta Post  reported  on July 4.  Hermanto Dardak, vice minister for public works, said the
government wants to start the project next year.  “The bridge is important for not just the economy but also
to bring Sumatra and Java in one because there’s a significant
inter-dependence,” Dardak said in an interview, adding that
Sumatra has natural resources that can be processed in Java.  Artha Graha’s design shows the Sunda Strait bridge soaring
about 85 meters (279 feet) above the water, featuring two three-lane roads with a double rail track down the middle. It would
take about a decade to build, Winata said in a June 13
interview. Most of the expense would come from building the
foundation, including six artificial islands made of concrete.  Winata, who said his company has spent $50 million studying
the bridge since 2004, said he’s ready to work with any
government appointees to the project, including state-owned
companies. He said he could line up investors, potentially from
 China ,  Japan ,  South Korea  and the U.S., within six months if the
government signed a cooperation agreement with him.  Winata Funding  Winata said he wants funds to come from the private sector,
with the government guaranteeing that contracts are honored and
regulations overseeing the project aren’t changed. Winata and
other investors would seek to get their money back via bridge
tolls and profit generated from developing proposed strategic
economic zones on either side.  “At the end it will make the financing burden of the
bridge come down,” said Winata.  Finance Minister Chatib Basri said his biggest concern over
the project is governance and assessing the cost to taxpayers if
anything goes wrong. The bridge would sit in an earthquake-prone
area about 60 miles from the active Anak Krakatau volcano.  “We have to look at the contingent liabilities, what will
be the impact on our budget,” Basri said in a June 19
interview.  Corruption Perception  Indonesia’s political parties, parliament, judiciary and
police are perceived as among the most corrupt institutions in
the world, according to Transparency International’s  Global
Corruption Barometer 2013 . Muhammad Nazaruddin, the former
treasurer of Yudhoyono’s party, was sentenced in April 2012 to
four years and 10 months in prison in a bribery case involving
building projects for the Southeast Asian Games.  Even if the bridge moves towards a feasibility study,
drivers like Djunaidi don’t have much faith in final approval
coming anytime soon. Tuki, who has been driving trucks across
Indonesia since the 1970s and like many Indonesians uses one
name, said life would stay the same.  “Presidents come and go, but nothing really changes,” the
61-year-old said as he prepared to roll his truck onto the ferry
after queuing for seven hours. “We’ll still be waiting.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  