-- Egypt Shares Gain on Election Timeline; Bonds Drop Amid Violence
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2013-07-09T10:02:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/egypt-shares-gain-on-election-timeline-bonds-drop-amid-violence.html
Egypt ’s stocks rose, rebounding from
the biggest drop in almost a month, as the interim president set
a timeline for new elections. Benchmark bonds slumped for a
second day.  The benchmark EGX 30 Index climbed 3.2 percent to 5,288.06
at 11:47 a.m. in Cairo, set for the biggest increase since July
4, as all but one stock advanced. Commercial International Bank
Egypt SAE, the nation’s biggest publicly traded lender, led the
gains, jumping 4.6 percent on volume of 37 percent of the three-month daily average. The yield on the government’s 5.75 percent
bonds due in April 2020 surged 39 basis points to 9.71 percent.  Adly Mansour, who was appointed by the army as interim
president after President Mohamed Mursi was ousted last week,
said in a document yesterday that Egypt would amend the
constitution and hold parliamentary elections in seven months.
The EGX dropped 3.6 percent yesterday and bonds declined as a
shooting of Islamists by the army outside a Republican Guard
building left more than 50 dead.  “The constitutional declaration gives investors hope that
the transition road map is on track,” Ashraf Akhnoukh, Cairo-based manager for Middle East and North Africa markets at
Commercial International Brokerage Co., said by phone. “Still,
we’re seeing limited institutional participation which isn’t a
good sign because retail sentiment is very volatile.”  Individuals accounted for 82 percent of trading so far
today, compared with 18 percent for institutional investors,
according to  data  posted on the bourse’s website. About 70
million shares have traded, compared with a one-year daily
average of 123 million shares, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
CIB rose to 34.7 pounds, set for the highest close since July 4.  Former Finance Minister Samir Radwan said today he’s
considering accepting the position of prime minister after the
appointment of Nobel Laureate Mohamed ElBaradie was opposed by
Al Nour Party, the only Islamist group that had agreed to join
talks with the military after Mursi’s ouster.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  