-- Heinz Profit Climbed 12% Ahead of Buffett, Lemann Deal
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-07-09T19:35:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/heinz-profit-climbed-12-ahead-of-buffett-lemann-deal.html
HJ Heinz Co., the world’s largest
ketchup maker, said fiscal fourth-quarter profit climbed 12
percent ahead of the company’s takeover by Warren Buffett’s
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  and  Jorge Paulo Lemann ’s 3G Capital.  Net income rose to $195.9 million in the three months ended
April 28, Pittsburgh-based Heinz said today in a regulatory
filing. That compares with $175.3 million in the same period
last year, when the company recorded costs tied to factory
closures and job cuts.  Berkshire and 3G completed the Heinz deal in June for $28.8
billion including debt financing. The new owners may first focus
on paying down debt then use the ketchup maker as a platform for
acquisitions and expansion in  emerging markets ,  Jack Russo , a
St. Louis-based analyst at Edward Jones & Co. who covered the
food company until it stopped trading, said in a phone interview
before the filing.  “The two key attributes of this company were leading
brands and the fact that they had exposure in  markets  like
 Russia  and  Brazil  and China,” he said. “That’s what attracted
 Warren Buffett  and 3G.”  Annual profit was $1.01 billion compared with $923.2
million a year earlier. Organic sales growth in the global
ketchup segment, a measure that excludes currency fluctuations,
was 4.6 percent for the year, as results improved in Russia,
Brazil and the U.S., Heinz said. In emerging markets, overall
organic sales jumped 17 percent.  3G’s Management  Buffett, 82, has said that he agreed to the deal in part
because of 3G’s management ability. Lemann’s firm will oversee
operations and in April named former  Burger King Worldwide Inc. (BKW) 
CEO Bernardo Hees, 43, to run Heinz. He succeeded William Johnson, 64, who led the food maker for 15 years and pushed
through a turnaround plan after investors including  Nelson Peltz 
agitated for change.  Hees has already begun to shake up management at the
company. On June 20, Heinz said that 11 executives, including
North America CEO David Moran, were leaving. Eleven other
managers were named to a new senior leadership team.  The changes recall actions that 3G took at Burger King
after buying the company in October 2010. Within two months of
completing the deal, the hamburger chain said it was cutting 413
jobs at North American and Latin American operations, including
positions at headquarters in Miami.  Burger King’s employee count fell about 12 percent to
34,248 from mid-2010 through 2011, according to  regulatory
filings . Lemann’s firm sold part of its stake in the chain last
year in an initial public offering.  Berkshire and 3G each paid about $4 billion for half the
common equity in Heinz’s new holding company. Buffett also spent
$8 billion for preferred shares that pay a 9 percent dividend
and give Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire warrants to buy an
additional 5 percent stake for a  “nominal sum.”   To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  