-- Elbit Imaging Drops on Debt Settlement Concern: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-07-09T14:40:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/elbit-imaging-drops-on-debt-settlement-concern-tel-aviv-mover.html
Elbit Imaging Ltd. (EMIT)  fell to the lowest
level in almost five months on concern prolonged debt settlement
negotiations will hurt the Israeli investment company’s
operations.  Shares of the Tel Aviv-based company dropped 1.4 percent to
6.55 shekels at the close in  Israel , the lowest since Feb. 12.
About 137,000 shares traded, more than 3.9 times the three-month
daily average. The stock has tumbled 45 percent since this
year’s peak on Feb. 20, after Standard and Poor’s Maalot lowered
the company’s rating to default from ilCC.  A Tel Aviv District Court has ordered creditors to meet on
July 18 to vote on a debt-settlement proposal submitted by the
company in May and an alternative proposal submitted to the
court by representatives of some bondholders. Calcalist reported
today that bondholder trustees have asked the court for
additional information concerning  cash flow .  “Management is dealing with survival and not with the
running of the company,” Adar Etzioni, head of research at
Migdal Capital Markets in Tel Aviv, said today by phone. “This
is hurting the development of projects and their value.”  Elbit said in an e-mailed statement today that it has
published all the necessary data needed for the vote. The
company last month adjusted its proposal, offering bondholders a
90 percent stake against debt and two series of new notes for a
total 500 million shekels ($137 million).  S&P cut the company’s rating after it failed to make
payments to bondholders in February. Moody’s Midroog that month
lowered Elbit’s rating to CA, two levels above default, from B2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in  Tel Aviv  at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  