-- Televisa Profit Climbs as Pay-TV Subscriptions Increase
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-07-09T20:16:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/televisa-profit-climbs-as-pay-tv-subscriptions-increase.html
Grupo Televisa SAB (TLEVICPO) , the largest
Spanish-language TV producer, rose the most in more than a year
as cable and satellite subscriptions helped increase second-quarter profit by 31 percent.  Televisa jumped 5.5 percent to 65.68 pesos at the close in
Mexico City, the biggest one-day increase since November 2011.
The shares have fallen 3.8 percent this year, compared with 8
percent for the benchmark IPC index.  While pay-TV services have become Televisa’s biggest growth
engine, its broadcasting advertising showed signs of recovery
despite lower  government spending  since President Enrique Pena Nieto took office in December. The company has also benefited
from increased revenue from its cable channels, such as sports
station Televisa Deportes and music-video network Bandamax.  “These results will be positive for Televisa’s stock
price,” said Gregorio Tomassi, an analyst at Itau BBA SA in
Mexico City, in a research note today. “They show higher-than-expected profitability in key business lines -- content, and
cable and telecom.” He has the equivalent of a neutral rating
on the shares.  Net income climbed to 1.83 billion pesos ($142 million)
from 1.4 billion pesos a year earlier, the Mexico City-based
company said yesterday in a filing. Leaving out some items,
profit was 7.46 billion pesos, beating the 6.98 billion-peso
average of five analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The number of cable-TV customers rose by 41,000 to 2.41
million, while satellite subscribers rose by 233,000 to 5.65
million, Televisa said.  No Forecast  Spending on commercials on Televisa’s Mexican  broadcast
networks  rose 6.2 percent from a year earlier to 5.91 billion
pesos, bounding back from a 7.2 percent first-quarter decline,
the company said. Cable-network subscription revenue rose 9.5
percent to 882 million pesos.  Advertising by government agencies at the federal and state
level has yet to return since the election, Televisa Executive
Vice President Alfonso de Angoitia said today on a conference
call. The broadcast business will also be hurt this year by a
new law that requires it to offer its over-the-air programming
for free to all pay-TV carriers, he said.  Because Televisa hasn’t been able to estimate the impact of
those items, it will stop providing a forecast for its content
business this year, de Angoitia said. It had previously forecast
a “mid-single digit” percentage increase in sales for the
unit, which includes broadcast advertising, cable-network
subscriptions and licensing and syndication fees.  Total second-quarter sales climbed 6.4 percent to 18.1
billion pesos. The company reported that losses from joint
ventures, mostly from mobile-phone carrier Grupo Iusacell SA, in
which it has a 50 percent stake, reduced earnings by 461.8
million pesos.  (Televisa discussed second-quarter results on a conference
call today. For details, click here.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in  New York  at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  