-- Emerging-Market Stocks Rise Led by Egypt as Rand Climbs
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v ,   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2013-07-09T21:35:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/emerging-stocks-rise-as-technology-companies-jump-rupee-gains.html
Emerging-market stocks advanced for
the first time in three days as Egyptian and Hungarian shares
surged. South Africa’s rand paced gains in currencies.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index rose 0.7 percent to 912.71,
after slumping 1.8 percent in two days. Egypt’s EGX 30 Index led
gains among 94 world gauges as the interim president set a
timeline for new elections. Mol Nyrt.,  Hungary ’s largest
refiner, drove the nation’s benchmark stock measure to a three-week high. An index of 20 developing-nation  currencies  tracked
by Bloomberg advanced for a second day as the rand jumped after
an illegal strike at a South African platinum company ended,
while South Korea’s won climbed the most in five months.  Stocks rebounded from a two-day slump which took the
benchmark of developing nations to the lowest level since June
26 amid concern about an economic slowdown and political
turmoil. The United Arab Emirates, which took an hour to welcome
the military-backed ouster of Islamists in Egypt, has pledged $3
billion in aid to the Arab world’s most populous nation.
Investors also awaited the release of the U.S. Federal Reserve’s
minutes tomorrow for signals on its stimulus plan.  “The major panic regarding the emerging-market asset class
success story seems to be over for the time being,”  Michael Ganske , head of emerging-markets at Rogge Global Partners Plc in
 London , said by e-mail. “I expect more volatility going
forward, data flow and policy comment driven.”  Equities rose even after the International Monetary Fund
said the world economic growth will struggle to accelerate this
year as a U.S. expansion weakens, China’s economy levels off and
Europe’s recession deepens. Global growth will be 3.1 percent
this year, unchanged from the 2012 rate, and less than the 3.3
percent forecast in April, the IMF said today, trimming its
prediction for this year a fifth consecutive time.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund rose 1.3 percent to $37.88. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
slipped 11 percent to 25.69.  All  10 groups  in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index gained
today as health-care and consumer discretionary shares had the
biggest advances. The broad measure has slumped 14 percent this
year, compared with a 9.7 percent jump in the MSCI World Index.
The developing-nation gauge  trades  at 9.6 times projected
earnings, lower than the MSCI World’s valuation of 13.5.  Developing markets are “absolutely oversold,” said Peter
Kohli, chief executive officer of DMS Funds in Leesport,
 Pennsylvania . He spoke in an interview in New York. “Emerging
markets should be viewed as long term investments” and they’ll
do well, he said.  Brazilian Shares  Brazil ’s stock market is closed today for a holiday in Sao
Paulo.  Mexico ’s IPC index added 0.4 percent as Urbi Desarrollos
Urbanos SAB, a Mexican real-estate developer, surged.  Russian equities fell as OAO Pharmstandard sank after the
country’s biggest pharmaceutical company offered to buy out
investors at a discount. The Budapest Stock Exchange Index rose
a fourth day as Mol added 2.1 percent. Turkish shares gained,
while benchmark gauges in  Poland  and the Czech Republic slid.  South Africa’s currency advanced 1.4 percent as Anglo
American Platinum Ltd., the world’s biggest producer of the
metal, said miners at two of its operations returned to work
today. The won jumped on speculation South Korean exporters took
advantage of a two-day decline in the currency to repatriate
income from overseas.  Egypt ’s stocks rebounded from the biggest drop in almost a
month, while benchmark bonds fell for a second day and default
risk jumped after fatal clashes in Cairo. Commercial
International Bank Egypt SAE, the nation’s biggest publicly
traded lender, led the gains, jumping 4.4 percent on volume of
1.2 times the three-month daily average.  Rupee Rebounds  Indian stocks advanced as the rupee rebounded after
regulators took steps to curb speculation in the derivatives
market. Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd., the nation’s largest
drugmaker by market value, rallied to a record. State Bank of
India rose for the first time in three days, leading lenders
higher. The rupee strengthened as much as 1.5 percent.  The Shanghai Composite Index rose after  China  Petroleum and
Chemical Corp. jumped the most in 11 months and cement and
utility companies rallied, overshadowing a report showing faster
inflation.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries was unchanged at 334 basis points,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Brendan Walsh at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  