-- Banks in Singapore Face Burden From MAS Rate-Rigging Censure
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n   a n d   K e n n e t h   F o o
-- 2013-07-09T08:43:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/lenders-in-singapore-face-burden-from-mas-rate-rigging-censure.html
Singapore’s censure of 20 banks for
trying to rig benchmark interest rates will result in a
“significant burden” on the lenders, Lawrence Wong, an acting
minister and board member of the city’s central bank, said.  The Monetary Authority of Singapore last month ordered them
to set aside as much as S$12 billion ($9.4 billion) at zero
interest, pending steps to improve internal controls.  ING Groep
NV (INGA) ,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  were among the
banks at which 133 traders tried to manipulate the Singapore
interbank offered rate, swap offered rates and currency
benchmarks in the city-state.  Singapore joins the U.S., U.K. and  Japan  in cracking down
on alleged rate manipulation.  Hong Kong ’s central bank last
month extended its probe of possible misconduct in setting the
city’s benchmark interest rates following Singapore’s move.  “It’s not just us confronting it but many other regulators
are confronting the same issue,” Wong said in Parliament today.
“What we have done is enhance our governance” and oversight of
the setting of the city’s key benchmark  interest rates .  The global market for contracts tied to Singapore-dollar
benchmarks is less than one-hundredth the size of the market for
those based on the London interbank offered rate and European
benchmark interest rates, he said.  Rigging key rates will be made a criminal offense and
supervision will be brought under the  Monetary Authority of
Singapore ’s direct oversight. While a few supervisors knew of
the rigging attempts, the regulator didn’t find evidence that
senior managers were aware, Wong said.  Quarterly Reports  Banks will be required to report their progress to the
authority on a quarterly basis, Wong said. If any of the banks
fail to comply with the central bank’s directives, the authority
could impose penalties including fines, he said.  Singapore ordered 19 firms to post reserves ranging from
S$100 million to S$1.2 billion -- depending on the severity of
the attempts by their traders to manipulate rates -- for a year
and will earn zero interest on that money.  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  was
exempted from setting aside any money.  The banks have taken disciplinary action against traders
found to have tried to rig rates, with about three-quarters of
them having resigned or been asked to leave their firms, MAS
said. The traders who are still employed will be subject to
disciplinary action by their employers, the regulator said.  During a review of benchmarks set from 2007 to 2011, the
central bank’s officials went through more than 100 million
documents, according to MAS. The regulator didn’t make specific
allegations against individual firms or produce evidence
supporting its findings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Foo in  Singapore  at 
 kfoo23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  