-- Enstar to Buy Torus for $692 Million With Stone Point
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   M e g a n   H i c k e y
-- 2013-07-09T13:48:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/enstar-to-buy-torus-for-692-million-with-stone-point.html
Enstar Group Ltd. (ESGR) , the firm that
assumes risks from insurers seeking to exit businesses, agreed
to buy Torus Insurance Holdings Ltd. for $692 million to expand
into direct sales of coverage.  Enstar will pay $415 million and Stone Point Capital LLC,
led by Chairman  Stephen Friedman , will provide $277 million, the
Bermuda-based buyer said in a statement today. Enstar will get a
60 percent stake and issue about $346 million in ordinary and
preferred shares to fund the deal, according to the statement.  Insurers including Markel Corp. and Alleghany Corp. have
been making acquisitions to gain scale and spread risk. Enstar
Chief Executive Officer Dominic Silvester agreed last month to
buy Atrium Underwriting Group Ltd. to add sales in accident-and-health, aviation and marine-property insurance.  The deal “diversifies Enstar into the active market and
enhances the opportunities available to our core legacy
business,” he said in the statement. Stone Point’s “expertise
in the  insurance industry  will add tremendous value.”  Stone Point is one of the  largest shareholders  of Enstar
and was one of the top investors in Alterra Capital Holdings
Ltd., which agreed last year to sell itself to Markel. Friedman
was on the board of New York-based Goldman Sachs Group Inc. from
2005 until this year.  Friedman, 75, joined Goldman Sachs in 1966, rising to co-chairman with  Robert Rubin  in 1990. He was a senior partner, and
had roles including overseeing the mergers unit and serving as
co-head of  investment banking .  Private Equity  First Reserve Corp. and Corsair Capital LLC, the private-equity firms that are the largest shareholders of closely held
Torus, will get Enstar stock and cash, according to the
statement. Other holders of Bermuda-based Torus receive all
cash, Enstar said.  Enstar slipped 6 cents to $137.94 at 9:34 a.m. in  New York .
The company  advanced  23 percent this year.  Affiliates of Stone Point also committed to provide as much
as $106 million of equity capital for the Atrium deal and an
agreement to buy Arden Reinsurance Co., Enstar announced today.
Greenwich, Connecticut-based Stone Point has raised and managed
five  private-equity  funds with aggregate committed capital of
more than $9 billion, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Megan Hickey in New York at 
 Mhickey18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  