-- Tesla Rises on Bump Up to Nasdaq-100 Index: Mover
-- B y   A l a n   W o n g   a n d   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-07-09T20:14:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/tesla-motors-to-join-nasdaq-100-index-as-oracle-leaves-for-nyse.html
Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , the world’s best-performing automotive stock this year, rose to a record after
 Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  said it’s elevating the company’s shares
to its Nasdaq-100 Index to replace  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)   The electric-car maker named for inventor Nikola Tesla
climbed 1.5 percent to $123.45 in New York, the highest closing
price since Tesla’s market debut three years ago.  Tesla will be added to the Nasdaq-100, which tracks the
biggest companies on the Nasdaq, before the start of trading on
July 15, Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. said in a statement yesterday.
Oracle, which last month said it will join the New York Stock
Exchange, is the biggest company to jump between the competing
exchanges. Tesla is the only U.S.-based automaker on the  Nasdaq .  Shares of Tesla, the carmaker headed by billionaire Elon Musk, have more than tripled this year as the popularity of its
new Model S sedan helped the company turn its first quarterly
profit. Gaining entry to benchmarks tracked by investors is
attractive to public companies because it provides a guaranteed
shareholder base.  “It’s a coming of age, recognition that a company has
market cap and liquidity,” said Sandy Mehta, chief executive
officer of Value Investment Principals Ltd. in Hong Kong. “Once
the stock joins the index, you will have some buying.”  Tesla has surged 264 percent this year. The current leader
in the Nasdaq-100 in 2013 is  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , which has gained 166
percent.  Model S  Exchange-traded funds and other products linked to the
Nasdaq-100 managed about $49.4 billion at the end of last year,
according to data compiled by Nasdaq.  Tesla, based in Palo Alto, California, has forecast Model S
sales will reach 21,000 units this year, with deliveries to
Europe and Asia beginning in the second half. The Model S, which
starts at $69,900 in the U.S., is Tesla’s second vehicle after
the $109,000 Roadster.  Oracle’s defection means Nasdaq will lose its fourth-biggest U.S. company, which has been listed on the nation’s
second-largest exchange since its 1986 initial public offering.  For Nasdaq, Oracle’s loss is a contrast to recent
additions.  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN)  joined from the NYSE in 2011.
Last year,  Facebook Inc. (FB)  chose Nasdaq for its IPO and Kraft
Foods Inc. defected from the NYSE.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Wong in Hong Kong at 
 awong478@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  