-- ESPN’s Skipper Puts Sports Costs on Agenda at Sun Valley
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-07-10T20:12:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/espn-chief-skipper-says-sports-is-in-ascent-at-sun-valley-event.html
The rising cost of sports
programming is a major topic of discussion this year at Allen &
Co.’s annual gathering of dealmakers in Sun Valley, said John Skipper, president of  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN.  This year’s conference includes team owners, agents and
league commissioners, Skipper said yesterday as he arrived at
the mountain resort in Idaho. This week’s event marks the second
year of attendance for Skipper, whose ESPN sports-cable network
is Disney’s most profitable operation.  “It speaks to the ascendance of sports as a valuable media
entity and sort of central to the culture,” Skipper said of the
many sports attendees at the conference, held for 30 years by
the New York-based investment bank.  Rupert Murdoch ’s  21st Century Fox Inc. (FOXA)  begins airing a new
national sports channel, Fox Sports 1, on Aug. 17, marking the
emergence of a new bidder for rights. TV and cable networks have
increased their spending on sports as audience ratings for live
events prove resilient in competition with delayed viewing on
DVRs and newer options like  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)   ESPN tries to reduce programming costs “in every
negotiation we do,” Skipper said. Ultimately, it’s up to media
networks to determine the price.  “They’re worth what somebody will pay for them,” Skipper
said. “It’s up to us. We can choose not to buy the rights.”  The commissioners of the big U.S. sports, including the
National Football League’s  Roger Goodell , the National Hockey
League’s Gary Bettman and Major League Baseball’s Allan “Bud” Selig spoke on a panel at the conference today.  Market Rates  Other sports figures invited this year include Chicago
Bulls and Chicago White Sox owner Jerry Reinsdorf, National
Basketball Association Commissioner  David Stern  and sports agent
Casey Wasserman.  The rising value of sports was on display in January when
 Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  agreed to pay more than $7 billion to
broadcast  Los Angeles  Dodgers games for 25 years, starting with
the 2014 baseball season. Rupert Murdoch’s 21st Century Fox Inc.
last year purchased a 49 percent stake in the New York Yankees’
Yes Network, giving the channel a $3 billion valuation.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. downgraded Disney to neutral from
buy on June 20 and removed it from its “conviction buy” list
because of competition and the rising cost of sports. Cable-network margins will probably compress and operating income
growth will slow to 4 percent in fiscal 2015 from 12 percent
this year, Goldman analyst Drew Borst estimated.  Disney, based in Burbank, California, closed little changed
at $64.91 in New York. The shares reached an all-time closing
high of $67.67. on May 15.  Skipper said ratings for the men’s final at the Wimbledon
tennis tournament fell from a year ago because the matchup
between winner  Andy Murray  and runner-up Novak Djokovic, wasn’t
as compelling to viewers as last year’s pairing of Murray
against  Roger Federer .  “They’re not as sexy,” Skipper said of
Djokovic and Murray.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  