-- EU Rapeseed Forecast Raised by Oil World as Conditions Improve
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-07-09T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/eu-rapeseed-forecast-raised-by-oil-world-as-conditions-improve.html
The rapeseed harvest in the European
Union, the world’s biggest producer and consumer, may be larger
than previously expected after crop conditions improved, Oil
World said.  Production in the bloc may reach a three-year high of 20.4
million metric tons, compared with last year’s 19.4 million
tons, the Hamburg-based researcher said today in an e-mailed
report. Oil World forecast output at 19.7 million tons in a
report last month. Farmers may harvest 6.45 million hectares
(15.9 million acres), up 3.7 percent from a year earlier, with
yields of 3.16 tons a hectare.  Rapeseed harvesting is progressing in southeastern Europe
and fields in most of the main growing countries are in “good
and partly very good” condition, Oil World said. Excess rain
and flooding in parts of central and western Europe had “only
limited impact” on production potential, it said.  “We made a sharp upward revision of our rapeseed crop
estimate for the European Union,” Oil World said. “Improved
production outlook is bearish for the new-crop prices, magnified
by the outstanding recovery of rapeseed crops in Ukraine.”  Rapeseed futures on NYSE Liffe in Paris are down 12 percent
this year, with prices touching 391.25 euros ($502.44) a ton on
July 1, the lowest for a most-active contract since October
2010. Oil World’s forecast is for production in 27 EU countries.
Croatia joined the EU July 1, making it the 28th member state.  German Production  Combined rapeseed production in Bulgaria, Hungary and
 Romania  will jump 53 percent to 1.3 million tons, as fields
recovered from winter losses and dry weather in the previous
season, Oil World said. Output in  Germany , the biggest producer,
may be a four-year high at as much as 5.8 million tons. Poland’s
crop may climb to 2.35 million tons, up 400,000 tons from a year
earlier.  Production in some countries will decline, Oil World said.
In  France , the second-biggest EU grower, output may drop by
about 500,000 tons to 5 million tons on decreased planting. Oil
World raised its forecast for U.K. production to 2 million tons,
still a four-year low after excess rain and delayed crop
maturity.  The U.K. “is likely to remain the wild card of the current
season due to the extreme planting and growing weather that had
started in the summer of 2012 and extended well into the spring
of 2013,” Oil World said. “However, improved growing weather
in the second half of May and June has reportedly allowed part
of the crop to recover, lifting yield prospects and reducing
area abandonment.”  Ukraine, the biggest supplier of rapeseed to the EU, may
produce more than 2 million tons this year, a five-year high,
Oil World said. Farmers had harvested about 380,000 tons on 23
percent of the country’s rapeseed area as of July 3, with yields
averaging about 11 percent higher than the previous season,
according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  