-- European Plan to Boost Sagging Telecom Market Set for September
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-07-09T17:30:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/european-plan-to-boost-sagging-telecom-market-set-for-september.html
Europe  needs to cut roaming charges
and standardize the rules governing telecommunications networks
to reinvigorate investment in the continent’s struggling market,
Neelie Kroes said today.  The “Connected Continent” plan -- presented by Kroes, the
European Union commissioner in charge of the digital agenda, to
the European Parliament today -- will go before the other
members of the EU’s administrative branch in early September.  Reduced costs to make calls outside of a customer’s home
country and “net neutrality” guarantees, preventing carriers
from blocking or slowing certain websites and services, will be
the basis for protecting consumers across borders in the EU, she
said.  “Uncertainties and costs faced by operators are passed on
to consumers, meaning higher prices and poorer service,” Kroes
said. “The fact is, the whole economy is relying on digital
tools and networks.”  Kroes is looking for ways to boost a telecommunications
market that’s fallen behind the U.S. and  Asia  in rolling out
faster, fourth-generation wireless and which is struggling to
make high-speed Internet available to customers. The EU accounts
for 6 percent of the world’s 4G licenses while America,  Korea 
and  Japan  have 88 percent, she said. Two percent of Europe’s
homes have access to “superfast broadband,” she said.  The EU will also encourage investment from carriers by
making licenses for wireless spectrum more consistent and by
homogenizing processes for accessing networks across borders,
she said.  ‘Unblocking Bottlenecks’  Still, Kroes said she doesn’t intend to upend the more than
two dozen local regulators that telecommunications providers
face in Europe and plans to adapt current structures to
“unblock the bottlenecks” and encourage the construction of
faster networks. The European Commission has said it wants to
give all Europeans access to Internet speeds of more than 30
megabits per second and that half the EU should have connections
faster than 100 Mbps by 2020. The average  downloading speed  now
is about 20 Mbps, the commission has said.  Operators are critical of this approach, saying the focus
on regulating prices and access restricts their cash flows and
cuts into funds for new networks and technology.  “The European industry is losing revenues and overall
market capitalization is shrinking, in stark contrast with the
U.S. and  East Asia ,” industry association ETNO said in a letter
to the commission last month, signed by the chief executive
officers of  Orange SA (ORA) ,  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , Telefonica SA,
Telecom Italia SpA and others. “A new deregulatory approach is
urgently required to ensure the long-term sustainability of the
sector and its competitiveness at a global level.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  