-- Euro Drops to Weakest Since April on Outlook for ECB; Rand Gains
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-07-09T21:19:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/euro-strengthens-versus-yen-after-eu-reaches-greek-aid-agreement.html
The euro slid to a three-month low
against the dollar after an official at the  European Central
Bank  signaled it may remain accommodative for more than a year,
further diverging from policy in the U.S.  Europe ’s shared currency stayed lower even after the ECB,
in an e-mailed statement, said Executive-Board Member Joerg
Asmussen didn’t intend to give guidance on rates for an exact
period. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  speaks tomorrow
on economic policy amid bets he’ll soon begin reducing monetary
stimulus.  South Africa ’s rand climbed as risk appetite rose.  “There are some dovish comments from ECB member
Asmussen,” said Eric Viloria, senior currency strategist at
Gain Capital Group LLC in New York. ECB President Mario “Draghi
reiterated the ECB’s accommodative stance yesterday and easy
policy from the bank should keep the euro under pressure,”
Viloria said.  Europe’s 17-nation currency fell 0.7 percent to $1.2781 at
5 p.m. New York time and touched $1.2755, the lowest since April
4. The euro lost 0.5 percent to 129.28 yen, while the Japanese
currency fell 0.2 percent to 101.15 per dollar.  Reuters reported that Asmussen said the ECB’s forward
guidance, which is that  interest rates  will stay low for an
extended period, goes beyond 12 months. Draghi made an
unprecedented pledge last week after an ECB policy meeting to
keep the bank’s monetary policy stance accommodative for as long
as needed to spur economic growth. The key interest rate is a
record-low 0.5 percent. The ECB wanted to provide forward
guidance in a more explicit way than it did in the past, Draghi
told reporters.  Italy’s Rating  The shared currency briefly extended losses as Standard &
Poor’s cut  Italy ’s long-term credit rating to BBB, two levels
above junk, from BBB+, citing “the effects of further weakening
growth.”  Stocks rose around the world as investors sought higher-yielding assets after Alcoa Inc. started the U.S. earnings
season yesterday with results that beat analysts’ estimates. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.7 percent.  South Africa’s currency gained for a second day after an
illegal strike at a platinum company in the nation ended. The
rand rallied 1.4 percent to 10.0240 per dollar.  New Zealand ’s dollar strengthened 0.7 percent to 78.51 U.S.
cents after reaching a one-year low of 76.84 cents on June 24.  An equally weighted basket of seven commodity currencies
rose to the highest since June 10 against the yen. The basket
comprised the Chilean peso, Australian dollar, Brazilian real,
New Zealand currency, Canadian dollar, Norwegian krone and the
rand. Commodity currencies are those of countries that benefit
from exporting raw materials.  ‘Risk-On’  “The commodity currencies are outperforming,”  Vassili Serebriakov , a foreign-exchange strategist at BNP Paribas SA in
New York, said in a telephone interview. “It’s more risk-on,
for sure.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Group of Seven Volatility Index,
based on currency-option premiums, fell to 10.58 percent in the
fourth-straight daily decline, the longest stretch since April.  Sterling slid to a three-year low against the dollar after
the  Office for National Statistics  said U.K. factory  production
fell  0.8 percent from April, when it declined 0.2 percent. The
median forecast of 25 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was
a 0.4 percent increase.  Stomach Punch  “We’ve had some fairly robust data recently, so for this
to be negative is a little bit of a punch in the stomach for the
pound,” said Lee McDarby, head of dealing on the corporate and
institutional treasury desk at Investec Bank Plc in  London .
“It’s not looking particularly great for sterling right now.”  The pound dropped as much as 0.9 percent to $1.4814, the
lowest since June 2010, before trading at $1.4867, down 0.6
percent. The U.K. currency rose 0.1 percent to 85.97 pence per
euro after touching 86.69 pence, the weakest since March 14.  Bank of Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda and his fellow
policy makers will discuss at a policy meeting this week
upgrading their assessment of  Japan ’s economy by using the word
“recover” for the first time in more than two years, people
familiar with the central bank’s discussions said.  Norddeutsche Landesbank, Macquarie Bank Ltd. and Banco
Santander SA are calling for the yen to tumble to 110 per dollar
by year-end. The lenders are among the five top-ranked
forecasters for the currency last quarter, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The median estimate of economists in a
Bloomberg survey calls for 105 by Dec. 31.  Options Trading  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $36 billion, compared with $29 billion yesterday,
according to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust
Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on
the euro-dollar  exchange rate  amounted to $7.8 billion, the
largest share of trades at 22 percent. Dollar-yen options
totaled $7.4 billion, or 21 percent.  Euro-dollar options trading was 150 percent above the
average for the past five Tuesdays at a similar time in the day,
according to Bloomberg analysis. Dollar-yen options trading was
3 percent above average.  The euro has gained 4 percent this year, the second-best
performer among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar has risen 7.7
percent, while the yen is the biggest loser, dropping 9.2
percent.  Bernanke will speak tomorrow at a conference in  Boston . He
told reporters June 19 after a two-day Fed meeting the central
bank may begin to slow its $85 billion in monthly bond purchases
this year. Minutes of the meeting will be released tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  