-- Ex-SAC Manager Seeks to Quiz Jury About Publicity
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-07-09T22:01:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/ex-sac-manager-steinberg-seeks-to-quiz-jury-about-publicity-1-.html
Former SAC Capital Advisors LP fund
manager Michael Steinberg asked the judge presiding over his
insider-trading trial to question potential jurors about what he
described as an “intense media storm” surrounding his case.  In court papers filed yesterday and today in  Manhattan ,
Steinberg also asked a federal judge to order prosecutors to
disclose additional stocks, trades or co-conspirators they may
include that weren’t described in the indictment.  Lawyers for Steinberg, who worked as a portfolio manager
for SAC Capital’s Sigma Capital Management Ltd., said that many
articles include “the widespread suggestion” that SAC Capital
founder  Steven A. Cohen  “must have encouraged insider trading
at SAC” and potential jurors should be questioned about their
knowledge of news coverage of Cohen, Steinberg and SAC.  “The media’s intense focus on this information and its
purported link to Mr. Cohen threatens to further prejudice Mr.
Steinberg,” his lawyers said in a memo. “Potential jurors
exposed to the reports of Mr. Cohen’s notoriety will be hard-pressed to ignore the media’s characterizations of Mr. Cohen and
his connection to Mr. Steinberg in evaluating the significance
of this aspect of the government’s proof.”  Media Outlets  Allegations of insider trading at SAC Capital have been
mentioned in at least 931 articles since September, and
Steinberg was mentioned in at least 203, according to a
memorandum filed today by defense lawyers Barry Berke, Steven
Sperling and Robin Wilcox.  “For almost a year, stories about alleged insider trading
involving Mr. Steinberg, Mr. Cohen, SAC and the legal troubles
of others associated with SAC have saturated media outlets,”
the lawyers said. “The coverage has not only been ubiquitous,
but its qualitative content also has been inflammatory,”
increasing the chance that jurors may not be impartial.  Steinberg is scheduled to face trial Nov. 18 before U.S.
District Judge Richard Sullivan. He was charged in an indictment
with one count of conspiracy and four counts of  securities fraud 
for trading in  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  based on illicit tips
provided to him by his analyst, Jon Horvath.  Steinberg is viewed by authorities as a potential witness
against Cohen if he were ever to cooperate with prosecutors, his
lawyers said in the filing.  More Information  Steinberg’s lawyers argue that in order for their client to
receive a fair trial, prosecutors should give them more
information sooner about what evidence they intend to present at
the trial. Prosecutors currently plan to give defense lawyers
the information just a month before trial.  Steinberg’s lawyers said they need time to review the
thousands of pages of information the government has amassed in
the case. For example, between 2007 and 2009, the time of the
alleged  insider-trading  conspiracy, Steinberg executed more than
2.3 million trades involving more than 200 stocks.  Berke argues that he will have to review more than 1.1
million documents related to the SAC unit, including more than
33,000 communications between Steinberg and Horvath.  “Because Mr. Steinberg is alleged to have been a fourth-level tippee, and the alleged tipping chain permeated several
different firms, Mr. Steinberg would also have to analyze for
each alleged stock and trade a massive quantity of other
communications,” Berke said.  Review Documents  This means defense lawyers may have to review more than 9.7
million documents of the approximately 23.9 million pages that
the government has produced, Berke said.  Horvath, who was charged with being part of an insider-trading ring with other analysts and technology company
employees, pleaded guilty in September and is cooperating with
the U.S.  Julie Bolcer, a spokeswoman for Manhattan U.S. Attorney
 Preet Bharara , declined to comment on Steinberg’s request.
Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC at Sard Verbinnen &
Co., declined to comment on the defense lawyers’ motion.  The case is U.S. v. Steinberg, 12-cr-00121, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at  pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Christie Smythe in federal court in  Brooklyn  at   csmythe1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  