-- Mexico Largest Opposition Party Seeks Constitution Change on Oil
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2013-07-09T23:08:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/mexico-largest-opposition-party-seeks-constitution-change-on-oil.html
Mexico’s largest opposition party
said it will propose changes to the constitution to end an oil
monopoly by state-owned  Petroleos Mexicanos , raising optimism of
reform in the  energy industry .  The  National Action Party , or PAN, will push for an
amendment to allow private companies to share risk in oil
output, party spokesman Juan Molinar Horcasitas said in a
telephone interview yesterday. The proposal is almost ready,
though the PAN hasn’t decided whether to present it as part of a
multi-party accord, known as the Pact for Mexico, or to push the
bill on its own, Molinar said.  President Enrique Pena Nieto said in a June 17 interview
his administration will send an energy bill to Congress in
September and is confident the Pact for Mexico will ensure
lawmakers end the state oil monopoly this year. The PAN appears
to be proposing a “much more market friendly” bill than what
the ruling  Institutional Revolutionary Party , or PRI, may
present,  Benito Berber , a New York-based strategist at Nomura
Holdings Inc., wrote in an e-mailed message.  “What is interesting about the PAN’s energy bill proposal
is that together with the PRI, these two parties will have
enough votes in congress to pass any reform they want, even if
it is constitutional,” Berber wrote. “It does not matter what
the PRD left-leaning party says or does. Also it does not matter
if the Pact for Mexico survives or not.” The PAN proposal
should be positive for the peso once the bill is discussed in
September, Berber said.  Mexico City’s former mayor, Marcelo Ebrard, has said his
opposition PRD party should “strongly” oppose Pena Nieto’s oil
plan.  The PAN, on the other hand, “is in favor of a real
reform,” Molinar said. Without risk sharing “there won’t be
investment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in  Mexico  City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  