-- Fairholme Funds Sues U.S. for Fannie Mae Profit
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2013-07-10T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/fairholme-funds-sues-u-s-for-fannie-mae-profit.html
Fairholme Funds Inc. (FAIRX) , a mutual fund
headed by  Bruce Berkowitz , accused the U.S. in a lawsuit of
expropriating the value of its investors’ preferred shares of
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac by seizing the companies’ profit.  Fairholme said it is seeking “just compensation” for its
investors because the  U.S. Treasury  changed the rules after
taking over the companies in 2008 and announced it would collect
all of their current and future profit, according to a complaint
filed yesterday in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims in
 Washington .  The result was to “circumvent the rules of priority and to
expropriate for the government the value of the preferred stock
and common stock held by private investors,” Miami-based
Fairholme said in the complaint.  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac paid fixed dividends of 10
percent on the government’s stock until this year when Treasury
amended the terms of the bailout to take all the mortgage-finance companies’ earnings.  Denise Dunckel, a spokeswoman for the  Federal Housing
Finance Agency , the companies’ overseer which is also named in
the suit, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail and a phone
call seeking comment on the suit.  “It is important to remember that U.S. taxpayers provided
over $187 billion in exceptional support to these two entities
to maintain their solvency, protect the broader economy and
support continued access to mortgage credit for millions of
American families,” Treasury said in an e-mailed statement.
“We fully believe our actions have been lawful and
appropriate.”  Similar Suit  Hedge fund Perry Capital LLC filed a similar suit in
federal court in Washington on July 7.  The U.S. government seized Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  in
2008 after investments in risky loans pushed them to the brink
of bankruptcy. The two companies took $187.5 billion in taxpayer
aid before they began reporting record profit this year as the
housing market rebounded.  The case is Fairholme Funds Inc. v. U.S., 1:13-cv-00465,
U.S. Court of Federal Claims (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 