-- Fannie Mae Said to Plan $1 Billion Sale of Home Mortgage Bonds
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-07-09T15:47:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/fannie-mae-said-to-plan-1-billion-sale-of-home-mortgage-bonds.html
Fannie Mae , the mortgage financier
controlled by the U.S. government, plans to sell about $1
billion of home-loan bonds without U.S. backing from its
holdings.  The company is offering the  non-agency securities  from its
portfolio in an auction on July 11, according to three people
with knowledge of the matter, who asked not to be identified
because the sale is private. The Washington-based firm  owned 
about $36 billion of the debt as of Dec. 31, half the amount of
its smaller counterpart  Freddie Mac , which conducted a similar
auction in May as the firms seek to shrink their harder-to-trade
assets.  Losses on the securities contributed to the government’s
decision to seize the companies in 2008 in a bid to stabilize
financial markets, and the debt is now declining again after a
record rally. In March, the  Federal Housing Finance Agency  gave
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac executives a goal of selling off at
least 5 percent of their illiquid holdings this year. Those
assets are separate from Fannie Mae’s guarantees on $2.8
trillion of debt that’s held mainly by others.  “We are working with FHFA to meet the goals of the
conservatorship scorecard for 2013,”  Andrew Wilson , a spokesman
for Fannie Mae, said in a telephone interview.  The notes the company is selling are also different from
potential new securities from the companies meant to share their
credit risks with private investors, a separate initiative also
ordered by the FHFA that’s meant to reduce their roles in the
new lending. Freddie Mac has started discussing its version with
investors, a person with knowledge of the plans said last month.  Illiquid Assets  Demand for non-agency securities has been slumping as
concern that the  Federal Reserve  will scale back its bond buying
roils credit markets. Senior  subprime -mortgage securities have
lost almost 5 percent since May to trim returns this year to 6.5
percent, according to Barclays Plc index data.  Along with the $59.5 billion of non-agency home-loan
securities and apartment-mortgage bonds, illiquid assets on
 Fannie Mae (FNMA) ’s balance sheet in May included $345.3 billion of
loans, much of which was delinquent or modified debt, according
to  data  released monthly by the company. Its portfolio,
including agency securities guaranteed by itself, Freddie Mac or
U.S.-owned Ginnie Mae, totaled $574.9 billion.  In May, the company auctioned off about $2 billion of its
commercial-mortgage bond holdings, the first widely distributed
offering its kind, according to Deutsche Bank AG analysts.  Fannie Mae  posted  $8.1 billion in net income in the first
quarter, and said it would pay $59.4 billion to the Treasury
Department after reversing writedowns on tax credits. Neither
Fannie Mae nor Freddie Mac is allowed to pay down the amounts
they owe to the government under the terms of their bailouts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  