-- FBI Nominee Comey Calls Bush-Era Waterboarding ‘Torture’
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-07-09T17:15:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/fbi-nominee-comey-calls-bush-era-waterboarding-torture-.html
James B. Comey, the nominee to be the
next FBI director, said interrogation methods such as
waterboarding and sleep deprivation used during his time in
President George W. Bush’s administration constitute torture and
are illegal.  Responding to lawmakers at his nomination hearing today,
Comey repeatedly denounced waterboarding as something the U.S.
government shouldn’t do. He said he pushed for changes while he
was at the Justice Department in the Bush administration.  “When I first learned about waterboarding, my reaction as
a citizen and a leader is this is torture,” Comey told
lawmakers on the Senate Judiciary Committee. “It’s still what I
think.”  Senators today had their first chance to publicly question
Comey since President  Barack Obama  nominated him on June 21 to a
10-year term as director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
The Bush administration’s anti-terrorism efforts, including
interrogation techniques and intelligence-gathering programs,
were the primary topic -- two issues Comey was involved with
while he was deputy attorney general in the Justice Department.  Comey said that while he didn’t know the details of the
classified intelligence-gathering computer programs used by the
government today, bulk collection of data is a “valuable tool”
for the government’s efforts to stop terrorism threats.  Sensitive Post  If confirmed, Comey would take over the agency at a time
when officials are reviewing a renewed terrorism threat after
the  Boston Marathon bombings , questions about the depth of
investigations into journalists, and leaks about confidential
government operations.  “I’m sure things will go wrong and I will make mistakes,”
he said during his opening statement. Still, he said, the
ability to acknowledge and correct those mistakes is crucial to
the FBI’s success.  Comey, 52, would replace Robert Mueller, who is retiring in
September. Mueller has been FBI director since 2001.  “The next director must face the challenge of how to
sustain the FBI’s increased focus on counterterrorism while
upholding the FBI’s commitment to its historic law-enforcement
functions,” said Senator Patrick Leahy, a Vermont Democrat and
chairman of the Judiciary Committee.  Data Collection  Leahy also expressed concern over the scope of the
intelligence-collection activities that have been disclosed by
former government contractor Edward Snowden -- programs the FBI
uses in its efforts to counter terrorist plots.  “When the government is collecting data on millions of
innocent Americans on a daily basis, when is enough enough?”
Leahy said. “Just because we have the ability to collect huge
amounts of data doesn’t mean that we should be doing so.”  Comey’s nomination has drawn the support of major law-enforcement organizations around the country, including the
Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association, the FBI Agents
Association and the National Association of Police
Organizations. Former top Justice Department officials and U.S.
attorneys, including former  New York  Mayor Rudolph Giuliani,
have also signed letters supporting the nomination.  Obama, when he introduced Comey last month at the White
House, cited his “fierce independence and his deep integrity”
as among the primary reasons for his selection.  Bush Administration  Still, Comey’s nomination has brought back to the forefront
questions about the Bush administration’s anti-terrorism
programs and tactics. In his role as deputy attorney general
from 2003 to 2005, Comey had oversight of the legal
justification used to authorize some of those programs.  A coalition of civil liberties and human rights advocacy
groups, including the American Civil Liberties Union and Human
Rights Watch, sent a letter to lawmakers on July 1 that called
on the Judiciary panel to “determine the full extent of Mr.
Comey’s role in the approval and use of torture before voting on
whether to confirm him.”  Two days later, Democratic Senators Sheldon Whitehouse of
Rhode Island and Richard Durbin of  Illinois  sent a letter to
Comey requesting details on his role in the Bush Justice
Department’s authorization of harsh interrogation techniques,
such as waterboarding.  Comey said today that, in addition to believing that
waterboarding was torture, he had concerns with the use of sleep
deprivation in terrorism interrogations. He called its use, in
aggregate with other techniques “very problematic” from a
legal perspective. He said he pushed for the administration to
take another look at its policy of using waterboarding during
interrogations of terrorism suspects.  Bridgewater Payout  After he left the government in 2005, Comey was general
counsel at defense contractor  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and then
hedge fund Bridgewater Associates LP. Most recently he was
appointed to the board of London-based bank  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  as
a nonexecutive director.  Comey will take a payout of $3.07 million from Bridgewater
if he is confirmed by the U.S. Senate. Comey, who left his
position at Bridgewater in January, would receive the money as a
“full payout” of his interests in the company’s profit-sharing
plan, according to a questionnaire filed with the Senate
Judiciary Committee.  Should he be confirmed, the money would be paid “prior to
the date that I assume the position” as FBI director, according
to the 32-page questionnaire, signed by Comey and dated June 26.  Comey told lawmakers he would recuse himself from any
matters dealing with his former employers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  