-- Fed’s Williams Sees Krugman Overlooking ‘Uncertainty’ of QE Plan
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-07-09T22:41:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/fed-s-williams-sees-krugman-overlooking-uncertainty-of-qe-plan.html
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco
President  John Williams  said critics including Nobel laureate  
 Paul Krugman , who say the central bank hasn't done enough to
stimulate the economy, disregard how bond buying by the Fed is
an untested tool with an ambiguous impact.  “The claim that the Fed is responding insufficiently to
the shocks hitting the economy rests on the assumption that
policy is made with complete certainty about the effects of
policy on the economy,” Williams said in a paper posted today
on the San Francisco Fed’s website. “Nothing could be further
from the truth.”  The 29-page paper by Williams is an academic response to
critics such as Krugman who have said high unemployment and low
inflation show the Fed hasn’t done enough to fuel economic
growth. The central bank is currently considering reducing its
$85 billion in monthly bond purchases even with unemployment at
7.6 percent and the Fed’s preferred inflation index showing
prices rising 1 percent from a year earlier, below the central
bank’s 2 percent goal.  “Policymakers are unsure of the future course of the
economy and uncertain about the effects of their policy
actions,” Williams said. “Uncertainty about the effects of
policies is especially acute in the case of unconventional
policy instruments such as using the Fed’s  balance sheet  to
influence financial and economic conditions.”  Williams cited Krugman, a Princeton University economist,
by name in his paper. Krugman didn’t immediately respond to a
request for comment in a phone message and an e-mail.  Moderation ‘Defense’  Williams, who titled his paper “A Defense of Moderation in
 Monetary Policy ,” told reporters on June 28 that he supported
the timetable for winding down purchases that Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  outlined in his June 19 press conference. Bernanke
said the Fed could start shrinking the pace of purchases later
this year and end them around mid-2014 if the economy performs
in line with the central bank’s forecast.  The San Francisco Fed chief has consistently voted with 
the majority on the  Federal Open Market Committee  and doesn’t 
vote on policy this year. He had said as recently as June 3 that 
the central bank could start trimming its purchases as early as
“this summer” and end them by the end of this year if the economy 
continues to improve. The FOMC plans to meet next on July 30-31.  Williams in his paper today doesn’t discuss the economic
outlook or when the Fed should alter the pace of bond purchases.
He plans to discuss the paper in a July 12 speech in  Vancouver .  “An additional concern about unconventional policies is
that changes in these policies may be disruptive” and pose side
effects not predicted by economic models, Williams said.  “One implication of this concern for deploying
unconventional policy is clear,” he said. “It argues for
gradualism in shifts in the stance of policy, both as the
policies are increased and are reduced.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  