-- FedEx Rises on Speculation Bill Ackman May Acquire Stake
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2013-07-09T21:05:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/fedex-rises-on-speculation-bill-ackman-may-acquire-stake.html
FedEx Corp., the biggest cargo
airline, rose the most in nine months on speculation that it may
be an investment target for  William Ackman ’s Pershing Square
Capital Management LP.  The stock increased 4.4 percent to $103.15 at the close in
New York trading for the largest one-day gain since Oct. 10.
More than 11 million shares were traded, greater than six times
the daily average volume over the past three months.  Attention focused on FedEx after Ackman outlined in a
letter to investors his intention to buy a stake of as much as
$1 billion in a large-capitalization, investment-grade U.S.
company he didn’t identify. FedEx, with a market value of about
$33 billion, is in the midst of a cost-cutting restructuring at
FedEx Express, its largest unit.  “This is purely momentum driven by a rumor that an active
investor is knocking on the door,” said Logan Purk, a St.
Louis-based Edward Jones analyst who recommends buying FedEx.
“Whether this is a situation where it gives most of it back
tomorrow, who knows. It is pure speculation at this point.”  Ackman declined to comment in an e-mail. Jess Bunn, a
spokesman for  Memphis , Tennessee-based FedEx, also declined to
comment.  “The business is simple, predictable, and free-cash-flow-generative, and enjoys high barriers to entry, high customer
switching costs and substantial pricing power,” Ackman told
investors.  Anemic Performance  FedEx meets almost all of Ackman’s criteria, has had an
anemic stock performance over the past six years and falls short
of UPS on returns to investors, Keith B. Papa, of institutional
equity sales at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, said in a report
yesterday. Before today, FedEx had dropped 11 percent over the
past six years, while United Parcel Service Inc. jumped 20
percent.  Ackman is familiar with transportation and taking on
entrenched management through his experience with Canadian
Pacific Railway Ltd., Papa said. Ackman helped oust the
chairman, chief executive officer and four directors after
Pershing became the railroad’s largest investor in 2011.  At least two analysts said Ackman’s characteristics don’t
all fit FedEx.  “It’s not a simple business, it’s not predictable and it’s
not free  cash flow ,” said  David Campbell  at Thompson Davis &
Co., who recommends buying FedEx. “They can’t raise prices too
much or they lose business. I don’t think you can really call
that substantial pricing power.”  Some Criteria  Customers often use both FedEx and UPS, the world’s biggest
shipping company. While large customers might have to make some
effort to separate their supply chain links to a single shipper,
“it wouldn’t be that expensive from a financial aspect” to
switch to another shipper, said  Kevin Sterling , a BB&T Capital
Markets analyst.  “They meet some of the criteria to a T, and some other
criteria to a lesser extent,” he said of FedEx.  Based on analysts’ estimates for profit this year, FedEx
has a price-earnings  ratio  of 15, about a 17 percent discount to
 UPS (UPS) ’s ratio of 18, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Its long-term debt is rated  BBB (FDX)  by  Standard & Poor’s , the next-to-last
level of investment grade, with a stable outlook.  ‘Solid Operationally’  “FedEx is really solid operationally,” said Mark Mulholland, manager of the $595 million  Matthew 25 Fund Inc. (MXXVX) ,
which owns shares of the shipping company. “It’s a great
company, not highly leveraged, very cheap and there’s a very
easy valuation comparison. It’s a great company at a good stock
valuation.”  Ackman could push FedEx to buy back shares to boost its
value, he said.  An increase in dividend could also unlock additional value,
said Troy Patton, president of Archer Investment Corp., which
has $100 million under investment, including FedEx stock.  FedEx is parking older planes sooner and cutting capacity
to  Asia  to help trim $1.7 billion in costs and sustain profit
growth. The restructuring was prompted by customers switching
from the most expensive international shipments to cheaper
options. About 3,600 workers also are leaving the company under
a voluntary buyout program.  Ackman’s investment in J.C. Penney Co. and a wager against
Herbalife Ltd. have lost money or produced small profits. The
last fund Ackman raised for a single-stock investment, a $2
billion vehicle that invested in Target Corp. in 2007, lost 90
percent of its value over the next two years. He exited the
Target stake in 2011.  The activist fund outlined in Ackman’s letter will be
capped at $1 billion and will invest alongside the New York-based firm’s main hedge funds, which plan to put about 15
percent of their capital in the same stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Burton in  New York  at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  