-- Fiat, Peugeot to Invest $900 Million in Van Venture
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2013-07-09T11:22:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/fiat-peugeot-to-invest-900-million-in-van-venture.html
Fiat SpA (F)  and  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  plan
to invest more than 700 million euros ($900 million) on new
delivery vans over five years to cut costs as they replace aging
models.  Fiat will invest 550 million euros, while Peugeot will
invest 150 million euros in developing new versions of the full-sized Fiat Ducato, Peugeot Boxer and Citroen Jumper models,
Turin-based based Fiat said today. The vehicles will be built at
the manufacturers’ SevelSud plant in Italy.  With the extension of the van partnership, “we are
relaunching a bet together with Peugeot,” Fiat Chief Executive
Officer Sergio Marchionne said today at an event at the factory
in Val Di Sangro. “We have started the investment, including
development costs for products and works to modernize the
plant.”  Fiat and Peugeot, which already cooperate at SevelSud on
assembly of the models, agreed in May 2011 to end a similar
partnership to make mid-sized delivery vans in  France . Paris-based Peugeot plans to invest more than 750 million euros to
produce a new vehicle on its own at the SevelNord plant.  The cooperation at the SevelSud joint venture factory runs
to 2019, according to the companies. A Peugeot representative
wasn’t immediately available to comment on the investment plans.  Marchionne said further investment in Italy, where Fiat’s
factories are under-used because of slumping European car
demand, will require reforms that should be agreed on with
unions, businesses and the government.  Fiat “needs clear and reliable rules” before investing in
more projects in its home country, the CEO said today. The
company “won’t put its survival at risk.”  Fiat is in a legal dispute with the Fiom union over new
labor rules, including longer shifts and shorter breaks. Fiom,
which claimed the new rules are anti-union, didn’t sign the
contract. Fiom is part of  Italy ’s biggest union Cgil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  