-- Fiat Industrial Investors Approve Merger Plan With CNH
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2013-07-09T16:20:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/fiat-industrial-investors-approve-merger-plan-with-cnh.html
Fiat Industrial SpA (FI)  moved a step
closer to completing a combination with its  CNH Global NV (CNH)  farm-equipment division in a move aimed at improving growth prospects
by shifting focus to the U.S.  Almost 98 percent of Fiat Industrial shareholders voted in
favor of the deal at a meeting today in Turin, Italy, where the
truck and tractor maker, which was spun off from  Fiat SpA (F)  in
2011, is based, according to the company.  “Fiat Industrial and CNH will be a totally integrated
group, able to compete at the highest level of the capital-goods
sector and appeal to international investors,” Chairman  Sergio Marchionne  said today at the meeting. The combined company
“will have the flexibility to pursue growth and consolidation
opportunities when they arise.”  CNH, the maker of Case and New Holland bulldozers and
tractors, is 88 percent-owned by Fiat Industrial. The two
companies agreed to merge after Fiat Industrial improved an
earlier offer for full control in November.  The new company, which will be called CNH Industrial, will
have its primary listing on the  New York  Stock Exchange.
Marchionne, who will be president of the new company, is seeking
to shift the manufacturer away from its roots in Italy, which is
in its fourth recession since 2001. CNH Industrial plans to move
legal headquarters to the U.K. for tax purposes.  The combination would create the world’s third-largest
capital-goods company with a product line spanning Iveco
delivery trucks, New Holland harvesters and FPT ship engines.
CNH shareholders will meet July 23 to vote on the deal.  The deal could work as a “technical blueprint” for the
combination between Turin-based Fiat and its Chrysler division
in the U.S., Marchionne, who is also chief executive officer of
the two carmakers, said last year.  Both Fiat Industrial and Fiat are controlled by  Exor SpA (EXO) ,
the investment company of Italy’s Agnelli family. Exor has said
it plans to keep its  voting rights  above 30 percent to maintain
control of the manufacturer that’s set up in the CNH merger.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  