-- U.S. Derivatives Regulator Weighs Delay in Cross-Border Rule
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2013-07-09T21:32:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/fight-over-reach-of-u-s-derivatives-rules-heads-for-showdown.html
The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission is considering a six-month phase-in period to
implement new rules for overseas swaps trades, according to two
people with knowledge of the deliberations.  Regulators face a Friday deadline to resolve a deadlock
over how far to expand the regulator’s oversight over trades
conducted outside the U.S. by banks including  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   CFTC members remain at odds over the regulator’s overseas
reach, according to the people, who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the deliberations are private. The agency has
set a July 12 meeting to vote on the rules.  The international reach of Dodd-Frank Act regulations has
been one of the most controversial parts of the government’s
effort to reduce risk and increase transparency in the $633
trillion swaps market. Regulators around the world decided to
increase oversight of the market after largely unregulated swaps
helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis and led to the collapse of
 American International Group Inc. (AIG) , a New York-based insurer that
booked many of its swaps trades in  Europe .  The CFTC’s proposed guidelines -- which could extend agency
oversight to many trades conducted by overseas U.S. banks or
subsidiaries -- have created a rift with foreign regulators, who
say their rules are sufficient for regulating derivatives trades
in their jurisdictions.  International Trust  “Having told us to get our act together -- which we are
now clearly doing -- is the U.S. suggesting that they cannot
trust our systems and that only their rules can apply?” Nadia Calvino, the European Commission’s deputy-director general for
internal market and services, said in a  speech  last week in
Brussels.  The CFTC’s proposed guidance was criticized by JPMorgan and
other U.S. banks for threatening to put them at a competitive
disadvantage when they trade overseas.  Swaps trading has been a major source of revenue for large
U.S. banks, and some have conducted roughly half of such trades
overseas, often through branches or subsidiaries. JPMorgan, the
nation’s biggest bank by assets, often derives as much of its
quarterly revenue from global operations as from those in the
U.S., Associate General Counsel  Don Thompson  said last year.  CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  has pushed for a broad reach of
Dodd-Frank rules because of the potential for trades overseas to
flow back to institutions in the U.S. and possibly put taxpayers
at risk. He has frequently cited the 2008 collapse of AIG as a
warning.  SEC Discussion  “Risk also comes crashing back to our shores from overseas
when a run starts in any part of a modern, global financial
institution,” Gensler said in a June 6 speech to an industry
conference in  New York .  Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew held a meeting last week
with Gensler and Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman
Mary Jo White, whose agency is also working on derivatives
rules, to improve discussions about the cross-border issue,
according to a person familiar with the meeting who requested
anonymity because it was private. Gensler and the CFTC were
urged to share more information about its process, the person
said.  Fourteen Republican and Democratic members of the House
Agriculture Committee, which oversees the CFTC, today called on
Lew to intervene in the rulemaking process. The members called
on Lew to direct the 10-member Financial Stability Oversight
Council to resolve uncertainty in the market generated by the
debate.  ‘Cooler Heads’  “Cooler heads must prevail,” the Representatives
including K. Michael Conaway, a Texas Republican, and  David Scott , a Georgia Democrat, said in the letter.  A temporary exemptive order that the agency completed last
year expires on July 12, prompting the agency’s four
commissioners, particularly Gensler and Democrat Mark Wetjen,
into a last-minute negotiating session. Jill E. Sommers stepped
down yesterday as a Republican commissioner, leaving an open
spot on the five-member panel.  “This thing needs to be resolved one way or another by the
12th,”  Bart Chilton , one of three Democrats, said yesterday.
“If we can reach a resolution prior to the meeting, great. If
we can’t, let’s meet and hammer it out there.”  Lobbying Groups  Thirteen lobbying groups representing  Wall Street  and
overseas banks and other companies urged senators to work with
the CFTC and SEC to delay the deadline. The groups, including
the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association and
International Swaps and Derivatives Association Inc., asked for
a delay of at least six months to allow for increased
coordination between U.S. and foreign authorities.  Commissioners are discussing three documents: final
guidance for how Dodd-Frank rules ought to be applied, a phase-in process and a separate letter on some transaction and record-keeping rules providing that European requirements are
essentially identical, according to a one of the people with
knowledge of the process. Gensler and CFTC employees have been
in negotiations with European regulators on the letter, the
person said.  One of the biggest debates is when the CFTC will allow
companies to comply with overseas rules to substitute their
compliance with Dodd-Frank. Commissioners are negotiating when
and how that process will be applied and whether firms located
in the U.S. might be eligible for substituted compliance when
they are on one side of a trade with non-U.S. counter-parties.  ‘Moral Hazard’  “People are perpetuating this lie that if we don’t extend
our reach to U.S. entities operating elsewhere they won’t be
regulated,” Sommers said in a telephone interview.  “It is in fact moral hazard for the CFTC to claim we have
the resources to do this. We should want the help of global
regulators,” Sommers said. “That’s unfortunately not the view
of the chairman.”  The EU has said that a solution to the dispute lies in a
so-called equivalence, or substituted compliance system, in
which U.S. regulators would accept that EU rules are equally
robust as U.S. standards, and so avoid where possible imposing
additional requirements on EU-based banks.  Equivalence, and substituted compliance are “the only way
forward to protect financial stability, while allowing the
financial sector to allocate capital efficiently throughout the
world,” Calvino said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  