-- Fishing Spat Costs 10,000 Filipino Jobs in Taiwan Hiring Freeze
-- B y   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o   a n d   J o e l   G u i n t o
-- 2013-07-09T09:24:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/fishing-spat-costs-10-000-filipino-jobs-in-taiwan-hiring-freeze.html
Taiwanese employers haven’t renewed
contracts for about 10,000 Filipinos since the Philippine coast
guard’s shooting of a fisherman at sea in May sparked a
diplomatic dispute and a hiring freeze.  Most of the workers were from factories and about 77,000
Filipino staff remain in  Taiwan , the  Manila  Economic and
Cultural Office said today. Permits for about 3,000 workers each
month will expire until December, Taiwan Council of Labor
Affairs official Chen Jui-chia said by phone today. Foreign
workers’ three-year permits can be renewed as many as three
times.  The shooting and the two countries’ disagreement over its
circumstances have soured ties and the losses may slow
Philippine President  Benigno Aquino ’s push to cut unemployment
that stood at 7.5 percent at the end of April, a three-year
high. Taiwan was the  seventh -biggest destination for Filipino
workers last year, according to Philippine government data.  Taiwan President Ma Ying-Jeou recalled his representative
from the  Philippines  and froze the hiring of workers from the
Southeast Asian country on May 15, rejecting Aquino’s apology
over the fisherman’s death, which occurred in disputed waters.
Travel agencies canceled trips amid a broader Taiwanese halt to
diplomatic engagement. The two sides have yet to release the
results of their investigations into the incident.  The penalties levied on the Philippines may rebound on
Taiwan, according to  Ramon Casiple ,  executive director  at the
Institute for Political and Electoral Reform in Manila. “Taiwan
has more to lose,” Casiple said in a phone interview. “The
Philippines is one of few countries that is still talking to
Taiwan.”  Fishing Talks  The Philippines, which doesn’t formally recognize Taiwan
under its one-China policy, agreed to compensate the family of
the dead man and hold talks on fishing zones. Initial talks were
held on June 14 ahead of formal fisheries negotiations to be
held at a future date.  Ma said he wasn’t satisfied with the Philippine response to
the May 9 shooting, highlighting strains in a part of the  South
China Sea  beset by competing territorial claims from countries
including Taiwan, the Philippines, Vietnam and  China .  “We are working on the lifting of the hiring freeze,”
Amadeo Perez, chairman of Manila Economic and Cultural Office,
said by telephone today. The total $21.4 billion in Philippine
remittances in 2012 helped boost an economy that grew at the
fastest rate among the 17 biggest economies in  Asia  in the first
quarter from the previous year. Money sent home by offshore
workers accounts for about 10 percent of the country’s gross
domestic product.  Final Reports  Philippine investigators have endorsed charges against
coast guard officers involved in the confrontation, Justice
Secretary Leila de Lima said on June 13. Aquino is reviewing the
justice department report on the incident, his spokeswoman
Abigail Valte told reporters in Manila today.  Taiwan will lift its economic measures against the
Philippines if it responds positively to Taiwan’s requests in
regard to the shooting, the  Central News Agency  reported last
month, citing Ma.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Guinto in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  