-- Fixed-Price Deals May Not Control Costs, Pentagon Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-07-09T17:19:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/fixed-price-deals-may-not-control-costs-pentagon-says.html
Fixed-price defense contracts aren’t
necessarily more effective in curbing overruns during the
development and initial production of weapons systems, according
to a Pentagon study.  That “does not absolve us from the need to carefully
consider and select the most appropriate contract type given the
maturity, system type and business strategy for each system,”
according to the Pentagon’s first annual report on  ‘Performance
of the Defense Acquisition System.’’  Fixed-price contracts require companies to bear increasing
shares of an overrun until they are paying 100 percent. They
make money if they are able to bring in a contract at less than
the fixed target cost. Watchdog groups and some lawmakers have
championed the contractors as a better deal for taxpayers than
cost-reimbursable deals in which the government is responsible
for overruns.  “A lot of the things we thought were important may not be
as important as we believed,” Frank Kendall, undersecretary for
acquisition, told the Armed Forces News Service in comments on
the report posted today.  Kendall’s “Better Buying 2.0” initiative calls for
limiting the use of fixed-price development contracts on the
argument that they saddle contractors with too much risk in that
phase of a weapons program.  The report outlines cost increases for the Pentagon since
1994 when a wave of major defense consolidations started, with a
statistical sample of programs by five top contractors that grew
in cost.  Boeing, Lockheed  A chart of cost increases by prime contractors on Pentagon-wide development contracts from 1994 to 2011 lists Boeing Co.
with median cost overruns of 46 percent,  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) 
with 42 percent,  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  with 36 percent,
 Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  at 31 percent and  Raytheon Co. (RTN)  at 25
percent.  The report also includes a compilation of major programs
canceled since 1995 by the military services “without producing
any or very few operational units.” The Army led with 14
programs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  