-- Fortum Keeps Atomic Secrets That Nordic Power Rivals Make Public
-- B y   L a r s   P a u l s s o n
-- 2013-07-09T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/fortum-keeps-atomic-secrets-that-nordic-power-rivals-make-public.html
Fortum Oyj (FUM1V) , Finland’s biggest
utility, is choosing to delay nuclear-output data that its peers
release instantly, forcing traders to pay third-party suppliers
for the information that can determine power prices.  Fortum, which doesn’t release any such figures at all, will
start to publish the data with a five-day delay by the end of
this year, Mari Kalmari, a spokeswoman based in Espoo, Finland,
said July 3 by phone. The deferral makes the information “quite
useless,” according to Jari Hallivuori, the power-purchasing
manager at Turku-based Oy Turku Energia, one of Fortum’s
competitors.  The generator’s stance means the utilities, banks and
industrial consumers that covet such data about Nordic reactors
must buy it from Stavern, Norway-based Energyinfo AS, paying at
least $35,000 a year. Teollisuuden Voima Oyj of  Finland  and
 Sweden ’s  Vattenfall AB  have published real-time nuclear output
for at least nine years, while Germany’s EON SE began in March.  “It’s important for market participants to have access at
every moment to the same information on what each reactor
produces, since their output directly affects power prices,”
Jens Nordberg, a board member at the Nordic Association of
Electricity Traders, said July 5 by phone from Gothenburg,
Sweden. “If power output is not published in real-time, then
there’s always someone sitting on insider information, even if
they are not allowed to act on it.”  Fortum is bucking the decade-long culture of transparency
in the Nordic power market, in which utilities publish real-time
proprietary data voluntarily. Kalmari declined to say why the
company isn’t following others offering instant data by choice.  Market Abuse  The custom among the majority of the Nordic nuclear
operators goes beyond what is required under the EU’s Regulation
on Wholesale Energy Markets and Transparency, a law designed to
prevent market abuse and  insider trading  in energy markets,
which came into force in December 2011.  The rules, known as Remit, require power producers to
provide national grid managers with output data, which in turn
will send the information on to  Entso-e , the European industry
group for network operators. The association will then publish
individual plant data with a five-day delay, rather than
instantly. The lag was deemed appropriate to increase
transparency while also protecting companies’ production
strategies, according to the European Commission.  “We own the data, and can publish it as we see fit,” Pasi Tuohimaa, a spokesman at Teollisuuden Voima, the operator of the
two Olkiluoto reactors, said July 3 by phone from the plant on
the country’s west coast. Publishing real-time information is a
matter of transparency and openness for the company, he said.  Unexpected Halt  The Nordic market’s 14 reactors provide more than 20
percent of the energy consumed in a region three times the size
of  Germany  and home to 25 million people. Together with output
from the more than 3,000 hydro-electric plants in  Norway  and
Sweden, they are the drivers of prices. An unexpected halt on
Sept. 26 at EON’s 1,400-megawatt Oskarshamn-3 nuclear reactor,
the region’s biggest, pushed day-ahead prices up 7.5 percent to
a four-month high.  The debate over transparency centers around Fortum’s
Loviisa-1 and Loviisa-2 plants, which began generating in 1977
and 1980, respectively, and produce about 10 percent of
Finland’s electricity. The reactors, on the country’s south
coast, had unplanned halts of 18 days last year, with Loviisa 1
unexpectedly cutting output by 51 percent, or 256 megawatts, on
Nov. 16, according to the latest notification of interruptions.
A supply of 1,000 megawatts is sufficient for about 2 million
European homes.  Hidden Data  “It’s peculiar that Fortum only plans to issue data with a
five-day delay, making the information quite useless and
defeating the purpose of real-time transparency,” Turku
Energia’s Hallivuori said July 2 by phone. “It also begs the
question of what they want to hide. The power market wants
Fortum to implement the same degree of transparency as its
competitors.”  Fortum will comply with Remit, Kalmari said, declining to
respond to questions about alleged secrecy.  “The directive stipulates a five-day delay, and we think
it’s wisest to act accordingly,” she said.  The European Commission, the EU’s regulatory arm, wanted to
ensure that sensitive market information such as real-time
production data isn’t published in a way that allows power
companies to learn competitors’ production strategies.  “It was decided to publish such data only with a delay
that would exclude the main competition risks,” Nicole Bockstaller, a commission spokeswoman in Brussels, said by e-mail. “Five days were deemed to be an appropriate delay in this
respect.”  Only Strategy  Nuclear reactors are most efficient if they operate at full
capacity around the clock until they halt for scheduled
maintenance outages, typically for 30 to 60 days every one or
two years, Andrew Moulder, a senior utilities analyst at
CreditSights Inc. in London, said by e-mail.  “That’s really the only production strategy one sees for
atomic facilities in the Nordic market,” he said.  To get access to real-time data, traders have turned to
Energyinfo, which has monitored nuclear reactors, hydro and
coal-fired plants in the Nordic area since 2010 by measuring the
magnetic field of cables leading out of  power plants . The
service covers 50 power plants with more than 30,000 megawatts
of capacity, including Fortum’s reactors, Atle Haga, the
company’s managing director, said July 5 when reached by phone.
He declined to comment on fees.  Market-Moving Information  Since joint power trading for Norway, Sweden, Finland and
 Denmark  started on Nord Pool in 2000, Fortum and its peers have
to publicize any changes in capacity for plants bigger than 100
megawatts within an hour of the event to prevent insider
trading. They aren’t allowed to buy or sell power until a filing
is published by the exchange.  The Nordic regulations presaged the EU, which requires
producers to declare in a timely manner potentially market-moving information, such as when plants stop and start.  Nord Pool’s market-surveillance unit monitors trading and
whether information about halts and resumptions is available to
all traders.  “It’s not good that power producers withhold info,” said
Fredrik Bodecker, head of market trading at Skaerbaek, Denmark-based Dong Energy A/S, the country’s biggest utility. “However,
as long as the Nordic power-market surveillance doesn’t demand
more information from Fortum, the company has the full right to
disclose what they choose, within the framework of existing
market rules,” he said July 2 by e-mail. Dong doesn’t own any
nuclear reactors.  Instant Numbers  Stockholm-based Vattenfall, the Nordic area’s biggest
utility, has published live data from its Forsmark and Ringhals
reactors since at least 2004. Fingrid Oyj, Finland’s network
manager, publishes total nuclear output in real-time.  “Production data for nuclear reactors is important for the
power market, since the basic assumption is that an atomic
station operates around the clock unless it is undergoing
maintenance,” Robert Pletzin, a spokesman for Vattenfall, said
by e-mail. “Transparency creates trust and confidence.”  Finland’s four reactors provide about 30 percent of the
nation’s power and have been operating at an average 95 percent
of capacity in the past decade, according to the  World Nuclear
Association  in  London . That compares with Sweden’s 10 reactors,
which ran at 75 percent of capacity last year, up from as low as
63 percent in 2009, according to Markedskraft ASA, the Arendal,
Norway-based energy-analysis company.  “A low utilization rate, for instance 60 percent,
indicates that the reactor may have problems, while a high rate,
above 90 percent, indicates a well-operated reactor with a lower
probability of accidents,” Nils Boehmer, a manager at Oslo-based environmental group  Bellona , said July 5. “It’s
incomprehensible that Fortum doesn’t wish to publish its output
data.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lars Paulsson in London at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Justin Carrigan at 
 jcarrigan@bloomberg.net  