-- French Stocks May Rally More Than 8 Percent: Technical Analysis
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-07-09T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/french-stocks-may-rally-more-than-8-percent-technical-analysis.html
French stocks may rally more than 8
percent in the next two months if the benchmark CAC 40 breaches
the key level of 3,871, said a technical analyst at Natixis SA.  The index may this week test the short-term resistance of
3,882 -- the point at which the 3,871 level will be considered
safely surpassed -- before breaking out to 4,072, Ouri Mimran
said by telephone from Paris today. That implies an 8.5 percent
jump from the July 5 close. “The sharp consolidation observed
on Friday does not undermine these positive signals,” he said.  The  gauge  slumped 1.5 percent on July 5 as better-than-forecast U.S. payrolls data added to speculation that the
Federal Reserve has enough room to pare stimulus this year. The
benchmark index has retreated 5.8 percent from May 22, when Fed
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke indicated that the central bank may
reduce its asset purchases if the economy improves in line with
its forecasts.  “Having interrupted the steep correction observed in June
after reaching the support zone at around 3,570 points, the
French index confirmed that it was on the road to recovery last
week by breaching the short-term resistance level at 3,725
points, which marked the top of the short-term downward
channel,” Mimran said. A drop to less than 3,709 would
invalidate the bullish scenario, he said.  In technical analysis, investors study charts of trading
patterns and prices to predict changes in a stock, commodity,
currency or index. Analysts identify resistance levels, or
ceilings limiting further gains, and supports, which act as
floors in a declining market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  