-- German Stocks Climb as Alcoa Beats Estimates on Earnings
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-07-09T08:48:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/german-stocks-climb-as-alcoa-beats-estimates-on-earnings.html
German stocks  advanced for a second
day as Alcoa Inc. started the U.S. earnings season by posting
profit and sales that beat analysts’ estimates.  Siemens AG (SIE)  gained 1.2 percent after Deutsche Bank AG
upgraded Europe’s biggest engineering company.  Deutsche Wohnen
AG (DWNI)  added 1.7 percent after UBS AG predicted that earnings at
real-estate companies in continental Europe will climb.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  gained 1.1 percent to 8,057.93 at 10:45 a.m.
in Frankfurt. The gauge has still  fallen 5.6 percent  since May
22, when the Federal Reserve signaled that it may pare stimulus
if the U.S. economy strengthens in line with its forecasts. The
broader HDAX Index added 1 percent today.  “Alcoa seems to be a solid basis as it was able to beat
consensus estimates,” Christian Schmidt, a market analyst at
Helaba Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen in Frankfurt, said in a
telephone interview. “The question is if the move higher is a
real move or just short term, technically driven.”  Alcoa, the first member of the  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU) 
to report  quarterly results , posted profit excluding some
expenses of 7 cents a share. That beat the 6-cent average of  15
estimates (AA)  compiled by Bloomberg. Sales fell to $5.85 billion,
still beating the $5.79 billion  average projection .  In Europe, the 17 finance ministers representing the euro
area agreed to release 3 billion euros ($3.9 billion) of aid to
Greece, seeking to calm the region’s debt crisis before
Germany’s elections in September.  Greece will get 2.5 billion euros this month and the rest
in October if Prime Minister Antonis Samaras’s coalition
delivers on economic reforms and cuts to spending. Greece will
recoup 2 billion euros in central-bank profits on its bonds and
receive 1.8 billion euros from the  International Monetary Fund .  The volume of shares changing hands in DAX-listed companies
was 13 percent lower than the average of the past 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  