-- Ghana to Offer First 7-Year Bonds With Two Second-Half Sales
-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 2013-07-09T14:55:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/ghana-to-offer-first-7-year-bonds-with-two-second-half-sales-1-.html
Ghana  will sell 200 million cedis
($98 million) in two issues of seven-year bonds, the first time
the West African nation is offering debt of the duration as it
seeks to extend the yield curve on government debt.  Ghana will sell 100 million cedis next month and 100
million cedis in November, the Accra-based central bank said in
a statement on its website today. No dates for the sales, which
will be open to foreign and domestic investors, were given.  The world’s second-biggest cocoa producer, is offering
longer-dated bonds amid attempts to boost debt trading and give
investors more ways to buy into the second-biggest economy in
West  Africa , where growth is expected to reach 8 percent this
year, according to the  Finance Ministry .  Three-year and five-year bonds, which are traded over-the-counter by banks, are also listed on the Ghana Stock Exchange
for secondary trading. Ghana will sell 600 million cedis five-year bonds in September, according to the Bank of Ghana,
following on three sales of three-year debt in the first half of
the year.  The country also plans to offer $1 billion in its second
Eurobond sale this month, according to the Finance Ministry.  The offer of seven-year debt next next month may yield 20
percent, Kofi Pianin, a bond trader at the Ghanaian unit of
Standard Bank Group Ltd., said by phone today.  “It comes at a time when the economy is still looking for
some fiscal consolidation and more stability in the currency,”
he said. “It’s however welcome news for pension funds that are
looking for ways to build their assets.”  Cedi Weakens  Ghana’s budget deficit in the first four months of 2013 was
3.8 percent of gross domestic product, compared with a target of
3 percent, the central bank said on May 22. The cedi, which
depreciated 6.9 percent against the dollar this year, weakened
0.9 percent to 2.045 per dollar by 2:16 p.m. in Accra.  Longer-term notes will help the central bank align yields
on shorter-dated debt with its key lending rate, Collins Appiah,
executive director of asset management at Accra-based NDK
Financial Services Ltd., said by phone. Borrowing costs on
Ghana’s 91-day Treasury bills are the second-highest in Africa
after Malawi at 23.1 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “With time the  Bank of Ghana  will be able to sell more
bonds in the long end of the market, thereby taking the pressure
off the short end to make way for short-term  interest rates  to
decline steadily,” Appiah said.  The central bank increased its key lending rate by 100
basis points, or one percentage point, for the first time in
almost a year to 16 percent on May 22. Ghana’s three-year bonds
are currently trading at a yield of 20.25 percent and five-year
notes at 20.15 percent, said Pianim.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moses Mozart Dzawu in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  