-- Was Russia’s Rocket Disaster a Putin Conspiracy?
-- B y   L e o n i d   B e r s h i d s k y
-- 2013-07-09T17:15:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/glonass-rocket-blowup-hurts-russia-and-global-consumers.html
After a Proton-M rocket carrying
three navigation satellites  exploded  32 seconds after it was
launched from Baikonur Cosmodrome in  Kazakhstan  on July 2,
Russians laughed.  “Three Glonass navigation satellites have been
successfully launched,” blogger Evgeny Kuznetsov tweeted. “The
smoke from the place where they fell allows us to determine the
precise location of the launchpad.” Another Twitter user, Givi
Dzhashi, parodied MasterCard ads: “Morning coffee, 70 rubles. A
croissant with jam, 100 rubles. Watching $200 million blow up
live on the air -- priceless!”  The disastrous launch  was , indeed, televised. As the rocket
abruptly changed direction and began to plummet, the announcer
for the state-owned Russia 24 channel commented in a bewildered
tone, “It looks like something is going wrong.” The phrase is
now a meme on social networks.  A dark, cynical sense of humor is a defining national trait
that has helped Russians cope with disaster. This one, at least,
hasn’t claimed any human lives. It did, however, cost 4.4
billion rubles ($135 million), according to the official
estimate. And it was only the latest in a series of setbacks for
Glonass, the ambitious satellite-navigation project designed to
rival the U.S. global-positioning systems.  The Glonass program was started in Soviet times, but until
the mid-2000s,  Russia  didn’t have the money to develop it. As
oil and gas prices rose, creating a windfall for the state
budget, a quick succession of launches brought the number of
Glonass satellites in orbit to 24, enough for global coverage.
GPS has 31 active satellites.  The last time a GPS satellite launch failed was in 1997.
Russia hasn’t been so lucky. In December 2010, another Proton-M
failed to deliver three satellites, which were lost in the
Pacific. The biggest disasters for the Glonass program have
taken place on the ground. Since 2012, its management has been
under investigation on several counts of large-scale theft. Late
last year, after the police said 6.5 billion rubles ($200
million) had been stolen, Yuri Urlichich lost his job as Glonass
chief designer.  President  Vladimir Putin ’s chief of staff  Sergei Ivanov 
 said  in an infamous interview in November 2012 that he had known
of the graft since 2010 yet tolerated it so it could be properly
investigated. Coincidentally, he used a similar phrase as the
Russia 24 announcer: “I suspected that something was going
wrong.”  The ever-expanding investigations have caused some bloggers
to speculate that the July 2 launch was never meant to be
successful. “Many people think the satellites were not
operational and the accident was planned,”  wrote  blogger
Alexander Trifonov.  The corruption fighter Alexei Navalny also  blamed  the
Proton disaster on graft: “If everything has been stolen, it
won’t fly.”  References to theft as the reason for any failure are a
knee-jerk reaction in today’s Russia. Yet more “seems to be
going wrong” with the space program. “It was the hope that
Russian aerospace would overcome its crisis that burned down in
the explosion,” Viktor Myasnikov wrote in  Nezavisimaya Gazeta .
“The reasons are clear: Incompetent management, the loss of
production culture, technological backwardness, the aging
personnel and equipment.”  Six of the currently active Glonass satellites will soon go
offline because their 60-month service term is drawing to a
close. On July 8, Information Satellite Systems, the producer of
Russian navigation satellites, announced that it would make
seven more of them by the end of 2014. The plan is to launch
them one by one, not in batches of three, from Plesetsk in
northern Russia. Despite the disasters and the corruption
investigations, the government has budgeted an additional 320
billion rubles (almost $10 billion) for Glonass until 2020.  The Russian government has a reason for not giving up on
the project or even slowing it.  Russia’s purpose in establishing what amounts to a GPS
double is what technology entrepreneur Igor Ashmanov calls
“digital sovereignty.”  What if the U.S. shut off its system or made it less
precise for everyone but its own military? Revelations by the
National Security Agency leaker Edward Snowden on U.S.
electronic intelligence have reinforced Russia’s belief that it
needs its own “sovereign” communications infrastructure. Even
if hundreds of millions of dollars are stolen and lost, further
billions will be spent to advance this goal.  This political attitude in Moscow isn’t a bad thing for the
global consumer. GPS and Glonass work nicely together.
Independent tests have shown that dual GPS-Glonass receivers
provide more precise positioning than either system alone.  (Leonid Bershidsky, an editor and novelist, is Moscow
correspondent for World View. Follow him on  Twitter .)  To contact the writer of this article:
 bershidsky@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 