-- Gold in Japan ETF Expands 10% as Price Drop Entices Buyers
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   I c h i r o   S u z u k i
-- 2013-07-09T06:10:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/gold-in-japanese-etf-expands-10-as-price-drop-entices-buyers.html
Japan ’s biggest bullion-backed
exchange-traded fund expanded 10 percent this year by volume,
bucking a global trend as lower prices and the yen’s weakness
spurred buying as a hedge against inflation.  Bullion held by the ETF exceeded 6 metric tons on July 5,
nearing a record reached in October, said Osamu Hoshi, general
manager at Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corp., which
introduced the nation’s first gold-backed ETF three years ago.
The value of assets held by the fund declined 5 percent this
year to July 5 as gold futures in yen slid 13 percent, he said.  Gold in  London  is poised for the first annual drop in 13
years as the  Federal Reserve  said it may taper stimulus,
boosting the dollar and reducing the appeal of bullion as an
alternative asset. Holdings in global exchange-traded products
backed by the metal are down 24 percent this year to 1,993.76
tons, heading for the first annual drop since the products were
introduced in 2003, and wiping $61 billion from their value,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Bullion is sought here as a hedge against inflation and a
rout in financial markets,” Hoshi said in an interview in  Tokyo 
yesterday. “A drop in  gold prices  attracted Japanese buyers.”  Gold for immediate delivery traded at $1,258.20 an ounce at
3:09 p.m. in Tokyo. The metal retreated 23 percent in the second
quarter. Global investors sold 404.4 tons from exchange-traded
products backed by the metal in the second quarter as prices
tumbled into a  bear market  in April.  Tocom Gold  Mitsubishi UFJ’s ETF is linked to yen-based gold prices on
the Tokyo Commodity Exchange, Japan’s largest raw-material
bourse. Gold futures on Tocom have lost 12 percent this year,
less than the 25 percent slump in the  spot market , as the yen
fell 14 percent against the dollar.  Inflation expectations by Japanese consumers remained at 3
percent for a second quarter in June, a  Bank of Japan   survey 
showed July 5. BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda is counting on
unprecedented monetary easing to encourage spending and credit
demand as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe aims to end deflation and
revitalize the world’s third-largest economy, dubbed Abenomics.  Japanese consumers are poised to become net buyers of gold
for the first time in eight years as the yen’s decline and
looming inflation drive them to seek refuge in bullion, Bruce Ikemizu, the head of commodities trading in Tokyo at Standard
Bank Plc., said in an interview in April.  Pension Funds  Assets held by Mitsubishi UFJ’s gold ETF reached 24.58
billion yen ($243 million) on July 5, compared with 25.86
billion yen at the end of last year, Hoshi said.  About half of the assets are held by individual investors,
with the rest owned by financial institutions, pension funds and
corporations and foreigners, Hoshi said.  Trading value in Mitsubishi UFJ Trust’s gold ETF on the
Tokyo Stock Exchange amounted to 7.23 billion yen in May,
becoming the most-traded commodity fund listed in Japan,
according to data compiled by the bank.  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058) , Japan’s largest trading company, supplies
gold to the ETF through imports and recycling. The products can
be exchanged for bars of at least 1 kilogram.  Assets in the SPDR Gold Trust, the biggest bullion ETP,
fell 15 tons yesterday, the most in two weeks. Holdings stood at
946.96 tons, the least since February 2009.  Banks from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to Credit Suisse Group
AG cut their price forecasts last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
 Ichiro Suzuki  in Tokyo at 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  