-- Gold Bulls Defy Price Slump as Paulson Loss Widens: Commodities
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-07-09T13:34:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/gold-bulls-defy-price-slump-as-paulson-loss-widens-commodities.html
Hedge funds  lifted their bets on a
gold rally as signs of an improving  U.S. economy  drove prices
lower in the longest slump since April, while this year’s
bullion declines spurred losses for billionaire  John Paulson .  Money managers increased their net-long positions in gold
by 9.9 percent to 34,301  futures and options  as of July 2, U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show. Holdings of
short contracts climbed 1.4 percent to 78,148, the second-highest on record. Net-bullish  bets  across 18 U.S.-traded
commodities dropped 17 percent as investors grew more bearish on
wheat and soybean oil.  U.S. payrolls rose by 195,000 in June, beating analyst
forecasts, government data showed July 5. Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has said the central bank will begin
trimming its $85 billion in monthly bond purchases if the
economy continues to improve. Gold lost 25 percent in 2013,
heading for the biggest annual drop since 1981 and poised to
snap 12 years of gains. Paulson’s PFR Gold Fund tumbled 23
percent in June, extending this year’s loss to 65 percent.  “People want to own gold for a myriad of reasons, but
they’ve all been disappointed in the last couple of months,”
said  Jeffrey Sherman , who helps manage more than $57 billion of
assets for DoubleLine Capital in  Los Angeles . “The lack of
inflation and a strong dollar are headwinds that gold faces, and
they’re not going to change anytime soon. The signs of
improvement in the U.S. economy just add to the list.”  Gold Slump  Gold futures dropped 13 percent in the previous three weeks
in the longest slide since April 19. Prices that more than
doubled from the end of 2008 to a record $1,923.70 an ounce in
September 2011 are down 35 percent from the all-time high as
some investors lost faith in the metal as a store of value.
Bullish bets are down 66 percent since the end of December.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 commodities
slid 1.9 percent this year. The MSCI All-Country World Index of
equities rose 6.4 percent and the dollar climbed 5.7 percent
against six major trading partners. A Bank of America Corp.
index shows Treasuries lost 3.1 percent.  The  unemployment rate  held at 7.6 percent last month, close
to a four-year low, Labor Department data show. Economists at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. said after the
figures that the Fed will begin tapering its stimulus sooner
than they had projected. Gold rose 70 percent from December 2008
through June 2011 as the central bank bought $2.3 trillion of
 debt .  ETP Holdings  The dollar climbed to a three-year high yesterday, cutting
the appeal of gold as an alternative investment. Holdings in
global exchange-traded products backed by the metal are down 24
percent this year and below 2,000 tons for the first time since
2010, helping to erase about $61.3 billion from the value of the
assets. Paulson is the largest holder in the SPDR Gold Trust,
the biggest bullion ETP.  Paulson & Co. reiterated its commitment to investing in
bullion and stocks of gold producers to hedge against currency
debasement as global central banks pump money into the economy.
Investing in the firm’s gold funds offers the “potential for
outsized returns” if investors have a long-term view, according
to a copy of a July 3 letter to investors obtained by  Bloomberg
News .  Gold investors may see better returns in the rest of 2013,
as gains averaged 1.3 percent in the second half from 1981 to
2000, when bullion endured a two-decade  bear market , data
compiled by Bloomberg show. First-half losses averaged 3.9
percent in the period.  India ’s demand for jewelry is set to pick
up before the Diwali festival, Catherine Raw, portfolio manager
of BlackRock World Mining Trust, said in a e-mailed statement
yesterday. While the holiday begins in November, bullion buying
usually starts in August, she said.  India Demand  “India is a major user of gold for jewelry and other
items, so that certainly could give us a short-term lift,” said
 Peter Jankovskis , who helps oversee about $3.5 billion of assets
as co-chief investment officer at Lisle, Illinois-based Oakbrook
Investments LLC. “You will probably see a greater demand out
there. It’s going to have a very muted effect on price. There’s
going to be plenty of sellers.”  Total outflows from commodity funds were $834 million in
the week ended July 3, according to  Cameron Brandt , the director
of research for Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR Global,
which tracks money flows. Investors withdrew $636 million from
gold funds, according to EPFR.  Societe Generale  Bullion will probably extend its losses, according to
 Societe Generale  SA. Prices may average $1,150 next year,
according to  Michael Haigh , the head of the bank’s commodities
research who correctly forecast the metal’s rout in April.
Goldman projects gold will reach $1,050 by the end of 2014, and
Credit Suisse Group AG forecasts a $1,150 in about a year.  The S&P GSCI commodity index climbed in the five sessions
through yesterday, the longest rally in a month. The gauge is up
4.2 percent since mid-April.  Net-long positions in crude oil jumped 14 percent to
263,643 contracts, the biggest gain since March, the CFTC data
show. Prices reached a 14-month high yesterday on signs of
improving U.S. growth and as protests in  Egypt  fanned concern
that supplies from the  Middle East  will be disrupted.  Investors increased their platinum  holdings  by 1.6 percent
to 17,591, the first gain in three weeks. Anglo American
Platinum Ltd., the world’s top producer of the metal, said
yesterday 11 percent of its workers went on strike to protest
the suspension of union officials and demand a halt to job cuts.  Copper Outlook  The funds reduced their bearish copper outlook to a net-short position of 26,963 contracts from 32,599 a week earlier.
The decade-long  bull market  in commodities may extend for an
additional 15 to 20 years, driven by urbanization and growing
populations in countries including  China  and India, Societe
Generale’s Haigh said in  Singapore  yesterday.  A measure of net-long  positions  across 11 agricultural
products tumbled 43 percent to 179,194 futures and options. The
U.S. government said yesterday that exporters sold 840,000
metric tons of soft, red winter wheat to China for delivery
before May 31. From June 1 to June 27, combined sales and
shipments were five times bigger than a year earlier.  “We have ample supply, but a little better demand takes
away a little bit of that supply and puts upward pressure on
prices,” said Rob Haworth, a senior investment strategist in
 Seattle  at U.S. Bank Wealth Management, which oversees about
$110 billion of assets. “We’re seeing the U.S. accelerate, and
I think we’re going to see better economic growth for the rest
of the world as well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  