-- China Vows to Press Fight With Dalai Lama After Shooting Report
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-09T16:02:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/tibet-monks-wounded-in-china-police-shooting-rights-group-says.html
China  vowed to press ahead with its
fight against the Dalai Lama, after an advocacy group reported
that security forces opened fire on monks celebrating the
Tibetan spiritual leader’s birthday, wounding several of them.  “We must deepen the struggle against the Dalai clique with
a clear-cut stand,” said Yu Zhengsheng, a member of the
Communist Party’s seven-man Politburo Standing Committee,
according a report by the official Xinhua News Agency yesterday.  Xinhua reported Yu’s remarks less than a day after the
Washington-based International Campaign for Tibet said two monks
were shot in the head and several more were also seriously
wounded when security forces opened fire on a crowd July 6
incident in Sichuan province, which neighbors  Tibet . Security
forces tried to stop the monks from burning incense and making
offerings to the Dalai Lama, the group said, citing Tibetan
people it didn’t identify.  The Dalai Lama fled to  India  in 1959 and led the government
in exile until two years ago. Chinese officials have stepped up
security in areas populated by Tibetans as monks and their
supporters have set themselves on fire to protest government
policies in the region.  “We are deeply concerned by these reports of
indiscriminate shootings,” Tashi Phuntsok, secretary for the
department of information and international relations for the
Tibetan government in exile, said in a phone interview. Six
people were injured in the shootings, he said, speaking from
Dharamshala, the north Indian town in the Himalayan foothills
where the government in exile is based.  ‘Middle Way’  The Dalai Lama has supported autonomy within China for
Tibet, eschewing calls for independence by more radical members
of the Tibetan community. The spiritual leader’s “Middle Way”
runs counter to China’s constitution and the country’s system of
regional ethnic autonomy, Xinhua cited Yu as saying during a
visit to Gannan Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture in Gansu province.  Protests and violence against Chinese rule have flared in
recent years in the Tibet and Xinjiang regions. There have been
120 self-immolations by Tibetans in China since Feb. 27, 2009,
the International Campaign for Tibet said last month.  Two phone calls to the Sichuan provincial government
spokesman’s office rang unanswered yesterday.  Yu said the 78-year-old spiritual leader can improve his
relationship with China if he stops activities that try to split
the country, Xinhua reported.  The Dalai Lama “isn’t an innocent religious leader, but
someone who in the long term divides China, ruins the unity of
the community and destroys China’s social stability in the name
of religion,” Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying
said at a briefing in Beijing yesterday.  Hua said she was unaware of reports on the shooting.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  