-- Libya’s Biggest Oil Terminal is Operating, Guards Say
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S t e p h e n
-- 2013-07-09T12:54:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/libya-s-biggest-oil-terminal-is-operating-guards-say.html
Libya ’s largest oil export terminal,
 Es Sider , and another nearby, are back in operation today after
a pay deal was accepted by security staff, the country’s
Petroleum Facilities Guard said.  The Es Sider terminal and Ras Lanuf port, which serves an
export refinery with the same name, were shut on July 5 after
security staff went on strike to demand better pay and
conditions.  “It’s final, the disputes have been resolved, they are
back at work today,” Walid Mohammed, public relations director
of the Defence Ministry’s oil security force, the Petroleum
Facilities Guard, said in an interview at the PFG headquarters
in Tripoli.  Repeated closures by staff and the armed militia who
protect such facilities has led to fluctuations in the country’s
oil production and exports this year. Libyan  crude production 
fell to 1.1 million barrels a day last month, the least since
January, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mohammed didn’t give details of the new pay settlement
though he said it was accepted by staff. “Our managers are back
at work at both plants,” he said.  Production at El Feel, an oil field in southwest Libya,
remains halted following an industrial dispute that began last
month, he said.  “There’s a strike” and “the problem has not been
resolved,” he said of El Feel.  Longer term, the government is still working out a new
strategy on who controls oil field security, he said. While the
Petroleum Facilities Guard is part of the  Defense Ministry , its
wages, training and equipment are funded by the state-run
National Oil Corp.  The guard has expanded to 18,000 men, from 12,000 in March,
Mohammed said. On June 25, the guard’s Tripoli headquarters was
attacked by gunmen from Zintan, with six people wounded in the
clash.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Stephen in Tripoli at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  