-- Life Insurers May Manage Public Pensions Under Hatch Bill
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2013-07-09T21:54:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/life-insurers-may-manage-public-pensions-under-hatch-bill.html
State and local governments in the
U.S. would be permitted to turn their retirement systems over to
life insurers under a Senate bill that seeks to diminish public-pension deficits.  Voluntary participation by states and municipalities would
reduce the threat of insolvency by removing the possibility of
pension-plan underfunding, according to Senator  Orrin Hatch  of
 Utah , the top Republican on the Senate Finance Committee and
author of the bill introduced today. The measure, which would
alter federal tax law, also would permit changes in
nongovernment  retirement plans  to boost employee savings at
small and mid-size companies.  The legislation, S. 1270, comes as more Americans say they
want to save yet can’t afford to, and as  Illinois  tries to fix
the nation’s worst-funded state retirement system. The 18-month
 recession  that ended in June 2009 eroded pension assets and led
some governments to reduce contributions as a way to balance
budgets. U.S. state and local funds lack as much as $4.4
trillion to cover promised benefits to retirees, Hatch said.  “The problem is getting more serious every day and cannot
be remedied merely by fine-tuning the existing pension
structures available,” Hatch said today on the Senate floor.
“A new public-pension design is needed -- one that provides
cost certainty for state and local taxpayers, retirement-income
security for state and local employees, and does not include an
explicit or implicit federal government guarantee.”  Competitive Bidding  States that want to transfer their plans to annuity
companies, such as life insurers, would be required under the
bill to seek competitive bids. The bond ratings of Illinois,
Connecticut, Kentucky,  New Jersey , Hawaii and Pennsylvania have
been cut over the past three years, in part because of how those
states have managed growing pension liabilities, according to
Moody’s Investors Service Inc.  “The new pension structure for state and local governments
will solve the pension underfunding problem prospectively while
delivering retirement-income security, in the form of a deferred
fixed-income life annuity, to public employees,” according to a
summary of the legislation provided by Julia Lawless, a Finance
Committee spokeswoman for Hatch.  “The life-insurance industry invests the assets, pays the
retirement benefits and bears the risks,” the summary says.
“Involvement by the federal government will be limited to
certifying the tax-qualified status of the plan.”  The annuities would be re-bid every year and would be
portable, following workers from job to job, Hatch said today.  Costly Solution  “Shifting to annuities is just an unnecessarily expensive
approach to the issue,” said Steven Kreisberg, collective
bargaining director of the American Federation of State, County
and Municipal Employees. The Washington-based union has more
than 1.6 million members.  “Where we have pension-funding issues in the public
sector, it’s not because of exposure to risk,” Kreisberg said
today in a telephone interview. “It’s simply because employers
have failed to make contributions that they should have made.”  A Bloomberg National Poll published last month found that
while 31 percent of Americans say they expect to save more for
retirement this year, 42 percent say they need to, yet can’t.  One provision in the bill would let employers that don’t
sponsor a 401(k) defined-savings plan for workers to initiate
what is known as a Starter 401(k), which would let employees
save as much as $8,000 a year in tax-preferred retirement
accounts. The new plan wouldn’t be taxed by the federal
government, though it would be regulated at the state level.  Bill’s Supporters  Hatch’s proposal has the support of  MetLife Inc. (MET) , the
largest U.S. life insurer, as well as the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce, the  American Council of Life Insurers  and Americans
for  Tax Reform , the Washington-based anti-tax advocacy group led
by  Grover Norquist .  Jurisdiction over rules prohibiting certain transactions
involving individual retirement accounts would be transferred
from the Labor Department to the Treasury Department under the
bill. The Treasury Department would work with the Securities and
Exchange Commission in determining professional standards for
brokers and investment advisers for IRA participants.  The Treasury Department, instead of the Labor Department,
also would have jurisdiction over rules pertaining to prohibited
transactions for employer-sponsored retirement plans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  