-- Illinois Lawmakers Take Another Run at Mending Tattered Pensions
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s   a n d   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-07-09T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/illinois-lawmakers-take-another-run-at-mending-tattered-pensions.html
Illinois  lawmakers will meet in a
special session today, their second in three weeks, with leaders
signaling that they can’t satisfy Governor  Pat Quinn ’s demand
that they fix the nation’s worst-funded retirement state system
before the day is done.  The session is a confrontation between the Democratic
governor and members of his own party who control the
legislature. While Quinn has said the pension system, saddled
with almost $100 billion in unfunded liability, is a threat to
the state budget and economy, lawmakers have been unable to
compromise to fix the underfunded retirement system.  “The governor just does not seem to be able to get people
to talk and negotiate toward a settlement, so that’s still very
much a cause of concern,” said Bill Black, a senior portfolio
manager in  Oakbrook Terrace , Illinois, for  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ)  The
company, which oversees about $22 billion in munis, bought bonds
in the state’s $1.3 billion sale last month, he said.  Lawmakers have been unable to agree on a fix for the five
systems, resulting in  Fitch Ratings  cutting Illinois on June 3
to A-, the fourth-lowest investment grade. Moody’s Investors
Service on June 6 dropped it to A3, equivalent to Fitch’s rank.  Bottoming Out  Illinois, the lowest-rated U.S. state, issued $1.3 billion
in bonds last month into the worst municipal-debt market since
2008. It still managed to lower yields on uninsured securities
maturing in July 2023 to 4.46 percent, down from 4.56 percent in
preliminary marketing.  The debt has rallied even with the likelihood of no pension
fix. The 10-year uninsured portion last traded at an average
yield of 4 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s
about 1.26 percentage points more than AAA munis, the narrowest
spread since the sale.  Illinois and its localities pay the most to borrow relative
to AAAs among 19 states tracked by Bloomberg.  The state has the worst-funded government employee
retirement plans based on a Moody’s formula released last month.
Its net pension liabilities represent 241 percent of
governmental revenue, according to the New York-based ratings
company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Jones in Chicago at =443-5923 or
 Tjones58@bloomberg.net 
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  