-- Illinois Ends Last-in-Nation Ban on Carrying Concealed Guns
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2013-07-09T21:24:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/illinois-ends-last-in-nation-ban-on-carrying-concealed-firearms.html
Illinois  lifted its prohibition
against concealed firearms as lawmakers rejected an effort by
Democratic Governor Pat Quinn to restrict guns in public places.  The nation’s fifth-largest state will now join the other 49
in letting citizens carry hidden guns, as dictated by a Dec. 11
federal court finding that Illinois’s ban was unconstitutional.
Quinn on July 2 made changes to the approved bill, inserting
limits on the ammunition capacity of gun magazines, restoring
the right of local governments to enact restrictions and
prohibiting firearms in bars or restaurants that sell alcohol.  Lawmakers today rejected those, with the House of
Representatives and Senate overturning the amendatory vetoes.
Senate President John Cullerton, a  Chicago  Democrat, said
lawmakers needed to provide clarity to residents.  “If we didn’t pass anything, we’d have the Wild West,” he
said.  “We already have in my district a Wild, Wild West,”
responded Senator Jacqueline Collins, another Chicago Democrat.
There were more than 70 shootings -- 12 fatal -- in Chicago from
Wednesday through Sunday evening.  Lawmaking Mouthpieces  Quinn told reporters in Springfield that the legislative
action was “extremely disappointing” and the law flawed.  “It has shortcomings that will lead to tragedy,” he said.  Last week, he called lawmakers “mouthpieces for the NRA,”
referring to the Fairfax, Virginia-based  National Rifle
Association , a gun-lobbying group.  Lawmakers today slammed the governor for not suggesting
changes when the bill was going through the legislative process.  “This sends a strong message to the governor,” said
Democratic Representative Brandon Phelps, the bill’s main
sponsor, adding that Quinn’s changes were “grandstanding, and
he should be ashamed of himself.”  The General Assembly approved the bill May 31 after months
of negotiations. Today was the deadline to enact a law.  The debate divided Chicago, with strict gun laws, from the
rest of the state. Many state legislatures are split by urban
and rural interests. In Illinois, with about 380 miles (611
kilometers) separating its southern tip from an urban center
with a history of the nation’s toughest gun laws, those
fractures are even more pronounced.  While gun-control advocates -- most in urban areas -- have
pushed for stronger restrictions after the Newtown, Connecticut,
school shooting that left 26 students and adults dead, opponents
from rural and suburban areas have countered with claims that
such atrocities could be eliminated or reduced if more citizens
were armed.  The U.S. Supreme Court in 2008 ruled that the Second
Amendment confers an individual right to keep and bear arms,
striking down a handgun ban in the  District of Columbia  by a 5-4
vote. Two years later, the high court invalidated a Chicago
ordinance that barred guns even within the home.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Jones in Springfield at 
 Tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  