-- IMF Reduces Global Growth Outlook as U.S. Expansion Weakens
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-07-09T15:45:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/imf-reduces-global-growth-projections-as-u-s-expansion-weakens.html
World economic growth will struggle
to accelerate this year as a U.S. expansion weakens, China’s
economy levels off and  Europe ’s recession deepens, the
 International Monetary Fund  said.  Global growth will be 3.1 percent this year, unchanged from
the 2012 rate, and less than the 3.3 percent forecast in April,
the Washington-based fund said today, trimming its prediction
for this year a fifth consecutive time. The  IMF  reduced its 2013
projection for the U.S. to 1.7 percent growth from 1.9 percent
in April, while next year’s outlook was trimmed to 2.7 percent
from 3 percent initially reported in April.  “Downside risks to global growth prospects still
dominate,” the IMF said in an update to its World Economic
Outlook. It cited “the possibility of a longer growth slowdown
in emerging market economies, especially given risks of lower
potential growth, slowing credit, and possibly tighter financial
conditions if the anticipated unwinding of monetary policy
stimulus in the U.S. leads to sustained capital flow
reversals.”  The fund urged central banks in wealthy nations facing low
inflation and economic slack to keep injecting stimulus until
recovery is entrenched, saying rising longer-term  interest rates 
have hurt emerging markets the most. The developing economies
need to be alert for financial risks if the “anticipated
unwinding” of the U.S.  Federal Reserve ’s bond-buying program
reverses capital flows, the IMF said.  U.S. Economy  “The growth in the U.S. has slowed down, and they’re
catching up to that,”  Jay Bryson , a global economist at  Wells
Fargo Securities LLC  in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , said after
the IMF released its report. “This is not the  U.S. economy  of
the 1990s that was a locomotive for the rest of the world”
though the U.S. remains “one of the primary engines of
growth.”  The Federal Reserve is discussing when to begin tapering
its $85 billion in monthly bond purchases that are aimed at
stimulating the economy. The Fed’s latest forecasts for the U.S.
economy are more optimistic than those of the IMF. Policy makers
in June projected U.S. growth of 2.3 percent to 2.6 percent in
2013 and 3 percent to 3.5 percent next year.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  on June 19 said the Fed may dial
back its asset-buying this year and halt purchases around mid-2014 if the economy meets central bank forecasts. The Fed has
said it is waiting for the labor market to improve
“substantially” before it starts to taper.  Payroll Gains  Payrolls in the U.S. rose by 195,000 workers for a second
month in June, the Labor Department reported July 5 in
 Washington , exceeding the 165,000 gain projected by economists
in a Bloomberg survey. The jobless rate stayed at 7.6 percent,
close to a four-year low.  The IMF projected China’s growth will be 7.8 percent in
2013, down from an 8 percent April projection, and the 17-country euro area will shrink 0.6 percent as the economies of
 France ,  Italy  and Spain contract. The IMF projected a 0.3
percent contraction for the euro area in April.  The IMF report says growth will weaken in  emerging markets 
including China as external demand growth has slowed and
advanced economy longer-term interest rate volatility has risen.
The U.S. is held back by fiscal contraction and Europe will
remain mired in recession on the heels of its debt crisis,
according to the report.  Plans for record monetary easing and increased private
demand boost the fund’s improved forecasts for  Japan , the
world’s third-largest economy, upgraded to 2 percent growth this
year from a 1.6 percent projection in April.  Global Economy  The forecast for global growth next year is 3.8 percent,
down from 4 percent in the IMF’s April projections.  In the report, the fund said advanced economies must
continue to avert risks -- in the U.S., by making timely
increases to the debt ceiling and in Europe, by continuing a
“do what it takes” approach to mitigate financial
fragmentation.  Monetary stimulus “should continue until the recovery is
well-established,” the report states. The U.S., Japan and
 European Central Bank  have all pursued record stimulus in an
effort to boost their economies.  The euro region is still facing fallout from its financial
crisis. European governments agreed this week to release 3
billion euros ($3.9 billion) of aid for  Greece , seeking to
create enough financial calm to prevent another debt-crisis
showdown until after Germany’s elections in September.  The fund sees a contraction deepening in Italy to 1.8
percent and France will shrink 0.2 percent, according to today’s
report.  Euro Area  The IMF said the euro area should work towards a fuller
banking union, and push forward policies to support demand and
reform product and labor markets in order to bolster growth and
job creation.  Germany’s economy is forecast to grow 0.3 percent, less
than the 0.6 percent expansion forecast in April. The country
must pursue policies that will sustainably raise investment, the
fund said, while  China  must pursue structural reforms that boost
consumption.  Developing economies are seen growing 5 percent this year,
compared with 1.2 percent for their advanced counterparts,
according to the report. The number is less than the 5.3 percent
expected as of April, though still faster than 4.9 percent
expansion last year, according to the IMF.  Brazil’s 2013 growth outlook was dropped to 2.5 percent
from 3 percent growth, while Russia’s forecast was downgraded to
2.5 percent from 3.4 percent expansion, today’s report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  