-- India’s Nifty Futures Rally After Stocks Slump Most in a Week
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-07-09T02:49:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/india-s-nifty-futures-rally-after-stocks-slump-most-in-a-week.html
Indian (SENSEX)  stock-index futures gained,
signaling benchmark indexes may rally after declining the most
in a week yesterday as the rupee slumped.  SGX CNX Nifty Index futures  for July delivery rose 0.6
percent to 5,857 at 10:32 a.m. in Singapore. The underlying CNX
 Nifty (NIFTY)  Index on the National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. tumbled
1 percent to 5,811.55 yesterday. The S&P BSE Sensex fell 0.9
percent. The Bank of  New York  Mellon India ADR Index of U.S.-
traded shares dropped 0.3 percent.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rebounded today from the
biggest slump in two weeks on optimism company earnings growth
will fuel gains in equities.  Infosys Ltd. (INFO) , India’s second-biggest software services company by market value, reports
earnings on July 12 for the quarter ended June 30. The rupee
fell to a record yesterday after a U.S. jobs report fanned
concerns the U.S. Federal Reserve will reduce monetary stimulus.  “It looks like a technical rebound given that the global
markets are up,” Surya Narayan Nayak, an analyst at Networth
Stock Broking Ltd., said by phone from Mumbai today. “But the
outlook for equities is negative given the rupee’s continuous
slide. The rupee’s decline will fan inflation, widen the
deficits and deter the RBI from cutting rates. The markets will
track the rupee’s movement.”  A weaker currency raises the cost of India’s imported oil,
which accounts for about 80 percent of its needs, likely paring
the central bank’s scope to pare  interest rates  at its meeting
on July 30. It also threatens to widen the nation’s current-account deficit and boost costs for Indian companies facing at
least $20 billion in overseas debt repayments in the coming
year, potentially wiping out the benefits of seeking lower
borrowing costs.  The Sensex has dropped 3.7 percent since May 22, when Fed
Chairman  Ben Bernanke  said the central bank will slow stimulus
if the  U.S. economy  and job market shows sustainable
improvement. That spurred investors to sell emerging-market
assets, including Indian equities.  Foreign Funds  Deutsche Bank AG yesterday cut its year-end Sensex target
to 21,000 from 22,500, citing prospects for a tapering of Fed’s
bond-buying program, a slowdown in China and a weak rupee.  Shares of  Yes Bank Ltd. (YES)  may be active after Rana Kapoor,
chief executive officer of the Mumbai-based lender, said
yesterday the company may sell as much as 9.9 percent in fresh
equity to private funds.  Foreign funds withdrew a net $2.95 million from Indian
stocks on July 5, data from the market regulator show. Overseas
investors sold a net $1.76 billion of the nation’s shares in
June, the most since August 2011. This year’s net inflow of
$13.5 billion is still a record for the period, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Sensex has declined 0.5 percent this year and trades at
13 times projected 12-month earnings, compared with the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index’s 9.5 times. The Indian index’s 50-day
volatility measure, a gauge of price swings, rose to 18.5
yesterday, the highest since April 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  