-- Injured Survivors in Asiana Crash Face Long Recovery Road
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-07-10T18:47:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/injured-survivors-in-asiana-crash-face-long-recovery-road.html
Injured survivors of the  Asiana
Airline Inc. (020560)  plane that crashed in San Francisco face a recovery
often seen in devastating car wrecks, from months of pain for
broken bones to years of therapy for brain and spine trauma.  While most of the 307 passengers and crew walked away from
the crash of the Boeing Co. 777 jetliner with minor wounds, more
than a dozen people remain hospitalized at San Francisco-area
hospitals, including at least three in critical condition. Two
16-year-old girls died in the July 6 crash. Three patients still
in the intensive care unit at San Francisco General Hospital may
be there “for months,”  Margaret Knudson , the hospital’s chief
of surgery, said in a telephone interview.  Most of the damage was similar to whiplash in car
accidents, Knudson said. The passenger’s lap belt led to
injuries caused by the upper body being snapped forward, then
back. The seats, too, intensified the effect.  “One patient told me that the seat in front of her hit her
in the chest,” Knudson said.  At Stanford Hospital, surgeon  David Spain  saw five spinal
column fractures. In the less-serious cases, the bone was broken
but the spine was stable. Patients with that kind of broken back
generally are put in a brace for about three months to prevent
loss of height and maintain their posture.  “They hurt an awful lot,” Spain said. “There are a lot
of muscle spasms and a considerable amount of pain for several
months.”  At least one of his patients faces a lengthy recovery with
the possibility of more long-term effects, he said.  Spinal Injuries  Rehabilitation for spinal cord injuries varies depending on
the site of the trauma, with a great deal of variation in
programs, said Charise Ivy, a rehabilitation specialist at the
 Center for Rehabilitation Medicine  at Northridge Hospital
Medical Center in Northridge,  California . It’s also not clear at
early stages of treatment how much someone will recover. Ivy
isn’t treating any of the patients in the plane crash.  Common responses to  spinal injuries  include muscle
weakness, loss of control of the bowels and bladder, and sensory
losses, such as an inability to feel vibrations or to sense heat
and cold. Some patients experience pain from damaged nerves, as
well as severe, painful muscle spasms that can limit mobility
and independence. The rehab process can be anywhere from a few
months to a few years, she said.  “It’s a very long course of care, and you don’t use the
word recovery, because recovery isn’t guaranteed,” Ivy said in
a telephone interview. “It can be between a few months to a
couple years before people know what their final function will
be, and complete 100 percent recovery is pretty rare.”  Brain Trauma  Recovery from  brain injuries  is similar, said Benton Giap,
the chairman of the physical medicine and rehabilitation program
at Santa Clara Valley Medical Center in Santa Clara, California.
About 80 percent of traumatic brain injury is mild, and those
patients generally do well, he said. However, brain injury
affects each patient differently, and can have effects on
thinking, mental skills, judgment, behavior and mobility.  “You have to create an individual treatment plan,” said
Giap, who isn’t treating any of those injured in the plane
crash. “And if someone was severely affected mentally and
physically, you’d need to have them in a rehab hospital.”  Common side effects include headaches, vision and balance
issues, sensitivity to light and noise, and difficulty sleeping,
Giap said. About 70 percent of patients with spinal cord or
brain injuries also experience anxiety and depression.  ‘Catastrophic Injuries’  “These are catastrophic injuries that typically impact
people’s ability to take care of themselves, and they affect the
whole family as well,” Giap said.  Another difficulty treating those most seriously injured in
the Asiana crash are that many don’t live in the U.S., said San
Francisco General Hospital’s Knudson. The hospital is working on
a plan to collaborate with their home countries for
rehabilitation efforts, she said.  “One thing people forget about is we have to deal with
families that aren’t prepared to come here and see their loved
ones seriously injured,” Knudson said. “A lot of families are
just arriving, so we’re dealing with the families now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  