-- Intuitive Surgical Declines on Falling da Vinci Sales
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z   a n d   S a m u e l   A d a m s
-- 2013-07-09T20:36:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/intuitive-surgical-declines-on-falling-da-vinci-sales.html
Intuitive Surgical Inc. (ISRG)  fell the most
since 2008 after reporting preliminary results that missed
analysts’ estimates as sales slowed for its surgical robots,
which have faced safety and cost-efficiency questions.  Intuitive  fell  16 percent to $419.30 at the close of
trading in New York, the largest single-day drop since 2008. The
Sunnyvale, California-based company’s shares had decreased 9.3
percent in the past 12 months.  Sales of 143 da Vinci Surgical Systems generated about $215
million in the second quarter, compared with $229 million from
150 systems a year earlier, the company said yesterday in a
statement. The reduced demand stems from pressure to cut U.S.
hospital costs, the company said, citing slower growth in
gynecologic operations using their robots.  The drop-off came because “hospitals are starting to re-evaluate treatment plans and taking a more cautious approach,”
said Jeremy Feffer, an analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald LP in New
York, in a telephone interview. “We are seeing a general
hospital capital spending slowdown. The fear is that this is not
a one-quarter blip, that these are trends that will persist.”  Bloomberg News  reported in February that U.S. regulators
were surveying surgeons about the robots following a rise in
adverse event reports that include as many as 70 deaths since
2009. The reports, from doctors, patients and companies, don’t
necessarily mean the robots caused any deaths, only that they
were involved in procedures in which deaths occur.  Doctors Question  Some doctors have also questioned the robots’ cost-efficiency, pointing to the lack of large, randomized trials
showing significant health gains and data in hysterectomies
showing they don’t cut complications compared with less-invasive
procedures.  Second-quarter sales of about $575 million fell short of
the $629.9 million average of 17 analysts’  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Intuitive said it would report net income of about
$160 million, compared with $155 million a year earlier.
Analysts’ estimated $178.4 million. Full results are scheduled
to be released on July 18, the company said.  Intuitive shares were downgraded by at least four analysts.
Benjamin C. Andrew of William Blair & Co. reiterated his
expectation for the stock to outperform the market, citing
international potential for further growth.  “Procedure demand drives demand for system sales, and
procedure growth for the quarter was very good,” Andrew said.
“On top of the domestic piece, the European and Japanese
markets are in the early innings of penetration.”  The da Vinci system, used in more than 1,300 hospitals, is
the company’s primary product and has been the subject of
negligence lawsuits alleging that patients were injured during
surgeries with the device. Cancer surgery, hysterectomies and
gall bladder removals are among the procedures conducted with
the robot, which costs about $1.5 million each.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net ;
Samuel Adams in  New York  at 
 sadams69@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  