-- Lira Appreciates to One-Week High on Tighter Central Bank Policy
-- B y   A y d a n   E k s i n   a n d   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-07-09T10:21:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/lira-appreciates-to-one-week-high-on-tighter-central-bank-policy.html
The Turkish lira strengthened to the
highest level in a week as the central bank refrained from
lending at lower rates for a second day and after it sold $2.25
billion of foreign currency yesterday.  The lira gained 0.3 percent to 1.9405 a dollar at 12:25
p.m. in Istanbul, the strongest since July 2 on a closing basis.
The currency fell to a record of 1.9740 per dollar yesterday,
before the central bank held the biggest daily currency auctions
since 2001. Yields on two-year benchmark bonds climbed nine
basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 8.35 percent, the
highest in a week on a closing basis.  The central bank refrained from holding its one-week
repurchase agreement auction after the regulator started
additional tightening by curbing the supply of liras to
commercial lenders yesterday. The regulator has sold $4.9
billion of dollars since June 11 to curb the lira’s drop as
anti-government protests roiled local markets and inflation
accelerated to the fastest pace since September.  “The central bank is obviously intending to continue
tightening,” Thu Lan Nguyen, a currency strategist at
Commerzbank AG, wrote in e-mailed comments. “I would expect
them to again auction some high amounts of foreign exchange as
well today. Probably not as much as yesterday though.”  Central bank Governor Erdem Basci said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday “it’s essential that extra tightening be
strong, effective and temporary.” The duration of policy
tightening will depend on developments in the foreign-currency
market, he said. The  average cost of funding  climbed to 5.57
percent yesterday, the highest in two weeks.  The lira will appreciate to 1.89 per dollar in the fourth
quarter and to 1.87 a dollar in the first quarter, according to
the median estimate of 33 analysts on Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aydan Eksin in Istanbul at 
 aeksin@bloomberg.net ;
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  