-- Iran’s LNG Dreams Vanish as U.S. Shale Gas Looms
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a   a n d   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2013-07-10T12:45:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/iran-s-lng-dreams-vanish-as-u-s-shale-gas-looms.html
Iran ’s ambition to exploit the
world’s biggest  natural gas reserves , stymied for years by U.S.
sanctions, faces an even sterner test as rising global output
and the North American shale boom threaten to erode prices.  The Persian Gulf state would need a decade to build planned
export capacity of at least 40 million metric tons a year of
liquefied natural gas even if unfettered by economic curbs over
its nuclear program, say analysts including Tony Regan at Tri-Zen International Pte. A surge in U.S., Canadian and Australian
gas from shale deposits may depress prices for new LNG projects
by 35 percent, according to Barclays Plc and Royal Bank of
 Canada , reducing Iran’s potential profit from selling the fuel.  The U.S. and European Union already restrict Iran’s largest
revenue source, crude exports, and the financial industry that
enables payments for them. The constraints have cut Iranian
crude sales by half since 2011, the  International Energy Agency 
said, and are stifling projects to export some of Iran’s 1,187
trillion cubic feet of gas reserves, about 18 percent of the
global total, as LNG. Iran’s President-elect Hassan Rohani said
June 17 that he’ll seek a gradual removal of sanctions.  “Iran has missed the boat,” said Regan, an energy
consultant at Singapore-based Tri-Zen, which has worked with BP
Plc and OAO Lukoil, according to its website. “They should have
slotted in nicely between Qatar’s projects and the new
Australian ones and before anyone was talking about U.S.
exports.” Sanctions have driven away partners with the know-how
Iran needs to develop LNG, he said by telephone July 8. “In
addition to a lack of technology, they lack the funds.”  Sanctions Bite  U.S. sanctions targeting energy investment in Iran since
1996 have narrowed the Gulf nation’s options for converting its
gas resources into cash. Partners such as  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,
 Repsol SA (REP)  and  Total SA (FP)  abandoned plans for LNG ventures there,
depriving Iran of the buyers as well as the money and expertise
needed to make and sell the fuel. Iran denies allegations it may
be developing nuclear weapons, saying its atomic program is for
civilian use.  “Energy should not be politicized,” Iran’s Oil Minister
Rostam Qasemi said today in a speech in  Frankfurt . “Energy in
Iran should benefit all countries.”  Should Rohani succeed in loosening the restrictions and Iran
does develop an LNG industry, it would enter a crowded market
for the gas chilled to a liquid for shipment by specialized
tankers. LNG plants under construction worldwide will boost
total export capacity by 32 percent by 2018, data compiled by
Bloomberg Industries show.  More Capacity  The U.S. and Canada together may add as much as 77 million
tons of capacity by 2020, an amount equal to the entire output
of Qatar, the world’s biggest producer, according to Barclays
and RBC.  “ Australia  is set to eclipse Qatar as the world’s leading
supplier of LNG,” RBC analysts led by Greg Pardy said in a May
22 report.  The wave of new projects will probably drive down prices,
enabling North American producers to supply  Asia  for as little
as $11 per million British thermal units by 2015, compared with
long-term contracts linked to crude that are now at about $17
per million Btu, Shiyang Wang, a New York-based energy analyst
at Barclays, said by phone June 11.  Spot prices for LNG in Asia, the largest market for
liquefied gas, were at $15.60 per million Btu as of July 8,
according to data from the Energy Intelligence Group. They
averaged $16.12 in the last six months.  High Costs  While shale gas from the U.S. may affect the future supply
and price of the fuel, the impact “should not be exaggerated,”
Qasemi, Iran’s oil minister, said today. In addition, other
countries may not be able to employ the technologies needed to
extract gas from shale, he said.  Iran and the other 12 members of the Gas Exporting
Countries Forum said in a June 28 statement that U.S. exports of
LNG would struggle to compete in Europe and Asia. The group,
which supplied almost two-thirds of the world’s LNG last year,
cited the high costs of building liquefaction plants and
transporting the fuel.  Falling prices could prevent Iran from matching the success
of neighboring Qatar, with which it shares the biggest undersea
 gas field . Qatar’s expansion over two decades into the largest
LNG exporter has made it the world’s richest state, while Iran,
with 34 percent more gas than Qatar, is a net importer of the
fuel, according to data from BP. Qatar’s per capita income was
$102,769 last year, almost eight times Iran’s average of
$13,104, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  Tombak Project  “There are some obstacles because of sanctions,” said
Abbas Araghchi, the foreign ministry spokesman, referring to
Iran’s gas strategy at a June 25 news conference in Tehran. “We
can’t deny them, but the Oil Ministry has tried to overcome
these issues.”  Of the four LNG projects Iran originally envisioned, it’s
pushing ahead with one, a 10.5 million-ton-a-year facility known
as Iran LNG, at Tombak near the Gulf port of Assaluyeh. The
government is working alone on the $3.3 billion project after
suspending a contract with its Chinese partner, Mehr news agency
reported in September.  The size of Iran’s gas reserves and rising global energy
demand suggest the Islamic republic may yet have a role to play
as a future supplier.  “If Iran gets itself sorted out with Western powers and
gets itself back into alignment with the rest of the world, the
sky is the limit for them,” said  Zach Allen , president of
PanEurasian Enterprises Ltd., a Raleigh, North Carolina-based
tracker of LNG shipments. “The high cost of entering that
market comes from the need to build all new infrastructure. They
don’t have the skills to build that on their own.”  Iran Pipelines  Iran could build pipelines to export dry gas even without
capacity for liquefied gas, Allen said by phone June 20. While
piped gas usually fetches lower prices than LNG, pipelines are
cheaper than liquefaction plants. The country broke ground in
March on a link to  Pakistan  and is building a separate network
to  Iraq .  Much of Iran’s gas would be easier to extract than either
shale deposits in the U.S. or so-called tight gas in Australia,
though developing and selling it as LNG will probably take
another 20 years, Allen said.  Strong global demand for LNG may favor Iran. Chevron Corp.
expects worldwide LNG use, led by  East Asia , to exceed output
near the end of this decade, Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer John Watson told analysts in  New York  March 12.  Geophone Ban  Still, abundant new supply may come from the eastern
Mediterranean region, where Houston-based Noble Energy Inc. is
developing gas in  Israel , and from Africa, where Chevron began
exporting LNG from  Angola  last month and Rome-based Eni SpA
plans to exploit discoveries in  Mozambique . Such developments
may eclipse Iran’s potential because international companies
avoid the country.  Engineers working for Shell in Iran a decade ago were
barred from using U.S.-made geophones to detect underground
vibrations while making seismic surveys, said Robin Mills, who
worked on the company’s projects there from 1998 to 2003.
Geophones, cylindrical devices placed on the ground or buried,
detect vibrations from nuclear explosions, so U.S. authorities
classified them as dual-use items and banned them from Iran,
Mills said.  Shell backed out of a project called Persian LNG in 2010,
as did Repsol. Total withdrew from the Pars LNG venture a year
earlier.  Biggest Hurdle  “The main hurdle now for Iran is that they don’t have the
technology and the expertise to build liquefaction plants,”
Mills, currently head of consulting at Manaar Energy Consulting
and Project Management in Dubai, said by phone on June 23.  Globally, the construction of LNG plants will add 93.5
million tons of capacity to the existing 296 million tons by
2018, according to data compiled by Bloomberg Industries. The
U.S. may approve seven export projects for liquefied fuel by
mid-2016, Morgan Stanley said in a May 20 report. Gas in the
U.S. costs less than a quarter as much as LNG sold into Asia.  “If you want to build an LNG plant today you must not just
compete with Australian LNG that’s expensive, but you must
compete with the Americans who aren’t very expensive,” Thierry Bros, an analyst at Societe Generale SA in Paris, said in a June
4 e-mail. “U.S. LNG will displace Iranian LNG even with regime
change.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net ;
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  