-- IRS Gets 24% Budget Cut Under Republicans’ Restrictions
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-07-09T17:01:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/irs-gets-24-budget-cut-under-republicans-restrictions.html
The U.S. Internal Revenue Service
budget would be cut by 24 percent under a House Republican
 proposal  that would create new restrictions on the tax agency.  The $9 billion IRS budget proposal, released today in
 Washington , includes new limits on videos, bonuses and
conferences after reports about overspending. The plan would
withhold 10 percent of the agency’s enforcement budget until the
IRS inspector general confirms that it has implemented all of
the recommendations made in a report on the agency’s scrutiny of
small-government groups.  “It’s time to clean up the act over there and it’s been a
lot of waste,” said Representative Charles Boustany of
 Louisiana , a Republican on the Ways and Means Committee. “We
are going to cut its budget until they come clean. It’ll force
them to provide the information in our oversight efforts but
also to account for every dime that’s spent.”  Republicans are seizing on the controversy over tougher IRS
scrutiny of small-government groups to limit the tax agency,
saying they can’t trust the agency’s executives to handle public
money appropriately. The budget proposed by Republicans would be
the IRS’s smallest since fiscal 2001.  Since the IRS apologized May 10 for giving extra attention
to Tea Party groups seeking tax exemptions, the government has
replaced at least four executives. Six congressional committees
opened inquiries and the  Justice Department  began a criminal
probe.  Shortsighted Approach  House Republicans  are planning votes in the next month on
several bills in response to the IRS controversy, Majority
Leader  Eric Cantor  of  Virginia  told lawmakers today, said a
leadership aide who asked not to be named because the comment
were made in a closed-door meeting.  The bills would make it easier to put executives under
investigation on unpaid leave, let people record conversations
with federal enforcement officials and tighten rules on
government conferences.  The Republican approach on appropriations is shortsighted,
said Representative Joseph Crowley of  New York , a Democrat on
the Ways and Means Committee.  “That’s typically their answer to it -- if there’s a
problem, just cut the budget and somehow the problem goes
away,” Crowley said. “It’s not addressing the issue.”  Tax Collections  The change may hurt tax collections. Treasury Secretary
Jacob J. Lew told lawmakers in May that each dollar spent on IRS
enforcement yields $6 for the Treasury. Using that metric, the
proposed $1.5 billion cut to enforcement would cost $9 billion
in revenue.  “This is about priorities,” Boustany said. “They’ve been
very lavish in the waste we’ve seen over there.”  A House appropriations subcommittee will consider the plan
tomorrow. The Republican-led House and Democratic-controlled
Senate are at a stalemate over the broader budget for fiscal
2014.  An inspector general’s report criticized IRS spending on
conferences, including a $4.1 million training event in 2010
that included an artist as a paid motivational speaker and a
video parody of the “Star Trek” television show and movies.  The 24 percent proposed cut is compared with the agency’s
current $11.9 billion budget. The IRS is spending less than that
because of across-the-board federal spending cuts that are
prompting at least five agency-wide furlough days this year.  The IRS had requested a $1 billion increase for 2014.  In addition to the investigations into the scrutiny of
nonprofit groups, Republicans may consider other legislation.
One option, Boustany said, is a bill that would remove the
agency from its role in enforcing the 2010 health-care law.  “This bill right-sizes federal agencies and programs that
are simply not working efficiently or effectively, while
investing in programs that directly serve the American people,”
Republican Representative Hal Rogers of  Kentucky , chairman of
the Appropriations Committee, said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  