-- IRS Considers Bonus-for-Furloughs Swap Amid Tightening
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-07-09T23:08:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/irs-considers-bonus-for-furloughs-swap-amid-tightening.html
The  Internal Revenue Service  is
considering canceling employee bonuses and using the money to
avoid two unpaid furlough days, the agency’s interim leader told
staff members in a memo today.  The agency made the announcement on the same day that  House
Republicans  proposed a 24 percent, or $2.9 billion, budget cut
that would make the IRS smaller in fiscal 2014 than it was in
2002.  The possible bonus cancellation “is not a reflection of
the quality or performance of the work done by you and your
colleagues, but rather an unfortunate byproduct of the difficult
budgetary situation we find ourselves in,” Danny Werfel, the
interim IRS leader, wrote.  The IRS has already stopped bonuses to managers, consistent
with government-wide spending limits. Werfel wrote that he is
now trying to stop bonuses for senior executives and for
unionized front-line workers, who make up more than 85 percent
of the 90,000-person workforce.  If the bonuses don’t get paid, the IRS would likely cancel
furlough days scheduled for July 22 and Aug. 30, meaning that
employees would get paid and the agency would be open to the
public. The agency was closed for three days between May 24 and
July 5.  Union Negotiations  The final decision will depend on the IRS’s negotiations
with the National Treasury Employees Union.  The bonuses are “legally required” and were earned for
work that started in 2012, union president  Colleen Kelley  said
in a statement today. He also said that the NTEU will “fully
pursue the bargaining process to the end.”  “It is not necessary for the IRS to cancel the awards in
order to avoid the remaining furlough days,” Kelley said. “The
IRS should examine all parts of its budget and operations before
eliminating incentive awards for high-performing front-line
employees.”  Lawmakers, including Iowa Republican Senator  Charles Grassley , have criticized the tax agency for considering bonus
payments amid the required federal spending cuts.  The tax agency’s announcement today is a “step in the
right direction,” Grassley said in an e-mailed statement. “But
it shouldn’t take a media firestorm and congressional outrage
for the IRS to act within its budgetary constraints.”  He also said it “would be a slap in the face to
taxpayers” if bonuses aren’t halted across the board at the
agency.  Actions ‘Louder’  Orrin Hatch  of  Utah , the top Republican on the Senate
Finance Committee, said in a statement that “while efforts to
block the bonuses are welcome news, actions speak louder than
words.”  “The IRS should not be paying out bonuses, especially now
when it’s under multiple congressional investigations for
targeting conservative groups,” Hatch said, referring to the
tougher scrutiny the agency applied to some organizations
seeking tax-exempt status.  Werfel wrote that the IRS has found $1 billion in savings
over the past four years.  “It is my hope that in the coming weeks and months, we can
have a robust public dialog about the future of the IRS
budget,” he wrote. “We have demonstrated our commitment to
making hard choices to reduce our spending, and we must also
make it clear that the IRS needs adequate resources for the
necessary investments in services and enforcement.”  A House appropriations subcommittee is scheduled to
consider the agency’s budget tomorrow, along with proposed
limits on IRS spending on bonuses, conferences and videos.  The memo was earlier reported by the  Associated Press .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  