-- Italy’s Credit Rating Cut to BBB by S&P; Outlook Stays Negative
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-07-10T07:15:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/italy-s-credit-rating-cut-to-bbb-by-s-p-outlook-is-negative.html
Italy’s credit rating was lowered to
BBB, or two levels above junk, by  Standard & Poor’s  because of
expectations for a weakening of economic prospects and the
nation’s impaired financial system.  The outlook on the rating, reduced from BBB+, remains
negative, the New York-based ratings company said in a statement
late yesterday. S&P analysts said that, even with unprecedented
easing by the  European Central Bank , real  interest rates  for
non-financial companies in Italy exceed the level before the
financial crisis.  “This is still two steps away from junk so that’s
reassuring,” said Roberto Perli, a partner at Cornerstone Macro
LP in Washington and a former economist for the  Federal
Reserve ’s division of monetary affairs. “I can see some short-term volatility but not a lot more than that.”  Austerity measures, while enabling  Italy  to reduce its
deficit to within European Union limits, deepened the nation’s
slump. With the economy headed for its eighth quarter of
contraction and joblessness at its highest since at least 1977,
Prime Minister Enrico Letta in the last two months postponed a
sales-tax increase and suspended a property tax payment.  “The rating action reflects our view of a further
worsening of Italy’s economic prospects coming on top of a
decade of real growth averaging minus 0.04 percent,” S&P said.
“The low growth stems in large part from rigidities in Italy’s
labor and product markets.”  Yields Rise  Yields on Italy’s debt securities maturing in May 2023
increased seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 4.48
percent at 8:46 a.m. Rome time. The spread over comparable-maturing German bunds rose 10 basis points to 285.3 basis
points.  Italy, bearer of the euro’s second-biggest debt relative to
gross domestic product, needs to sell more than 30 billion euros
of bonds and bills a month. Italy is selling 7 billion euros of
1-year bills and 2.5 billion euros of 3-month bills today.  The country’s benchmark stock index, the  FTSE MIB Index (FTSEMIB) ,
dropped 0.5 percent today. The gauge has lost 3.5 percent this
year,  compared with  a 5.5 percent advance for companies in the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Investors are paying less attention to the views of ratings
companies and relying more on their own analysis. Yields on
sovereign securities last year moved in the opposite direction
from what ratings suggested in 53 percent of 32 upgrades,
downgrades and changes in credit outlook, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg published in December.  ‘Brutal Reminder’  Still, Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta said in an
Italian television interview that S&P’s downgrade shows “the
situation remains complicated, and internationally those who
think that everything has been resolved are very wrong.”  Italy’s economic output in the first quarter of 2013 was 8
percent lower than in the last quarter of 2007 and continues to
fall, S&P said. The company reduced its growth forecast for 2013
to minus 1.9 percent, from minus 1.4 percent.  “This is a brutal reminder that austerity can be achieved
two ways: by raising taxes or slashing expenditures,” said
Francesco Galietti, founder of Rome-based Policy Sonar. “We
have achieved a decent result but we simply didn’t get the mix
right.”  Uphill Battle  The  International Monetary Fund  said in a report last week
that Letta still faces an uphill battle in helping his country
exit its longest recession in more than two decades.  The IMF cut its growth outlook for Italy this year, saying
GDP will shrink 1.8 percent, compared with its April forecast of
1.5 percent. The economy will expand 0.7 percent in 2014, up
from its previous estimate of 0.5 percent.  “This is very bad news, but there might be a silver
lining,” Galietti said of the downgrade. “Maybe it’s a good
warning that will make the government focus to cut state
expenditures instead of raising taxes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in  Washington  at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  