-- Mizuho Steers Regional Bank Stimulus Cash Overseas: Japan Credit
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   E m i   U r a b e
-- 2013-07-09T01:02:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/mizuho-steers-regional-bank-stimulus-cash-overseas-japan-credit.html
Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  expects
to boost overseas syndicated loans by 50 percent this fiscal
year as it steers regional lenders, flush with cash intended to
stimulate Japan’s economy, into  Latin America  and emerging  Asia .  Japan’s third-biggest lender by market value may arrange
450 billion yen ($4.45 billion) of such loans in the 12 months
to March 2014, according to Yasuyuki Yamaji, Mizuho’s general
manager of cross-border syndication. Facilities for investment-grade companies in Latin America pay more than 100 basis points
over the London interbank offered rate, while the premium for
Indian and Indonesian corporates exceeds 200 basis points, said
Yamaji. That’s more than double the 40 basis-point average for a
comparable rate in Japan, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Spreads in Japan have flattened out, making it difficult
for lenders to increase profitability,” Yamaji said in an
interview in Tokyo on July 3. “More and more of them turn to us
for the cross-border know-how.”  The overseas foray by regional banks, whose excess cash
climbed to a record 93.53 trillion yen last month, conflicts
with Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s goal of using monetary easing
to stimulate local investment and increases competition for
global banks including HSBC Holdings Plc. The  Bank of Japan 
yesterday said deposits at domestic local lenders continued to
climb in June, extending increases into the 11th year and
outpacing the growth of lending.  Abenomics Impact  “There is little empirical evidence suggesting that
Abenomics has had an effect” on lending, said  Masahiko Sato , an
analyst at Nomura Securities Co. in Tokyo. “Regional lenders
depend on megabanks as they turn to overseas markets to bolster
interest income.”  Representatives of more than 20 regional banks are expected
to take part in training courses for overseas syndicated loans
offered by Mizuho this fiscal year, according to Yamaji. That
compares with fewer than 10 banks in 2011, he said.  Deposits at regional banks jumped 3.7 percent last month to
299.22 trillion yen, outpacing a 2.8 percent increase in lending
to 205.69 trillion yen, according to the BOJ data. The  average
interest rate  on new long-term loans was 1.002 percent in May,
near an all-time low of 0.969 percent set in March.  Rate Swings  The central bank’s April 4 decision to end deflation and
spur lending through unprecedented monetary easing pushed
Japan’s benchmark 10-year yield to an all-time low of 0.315
percent the following day. The rate rebounded to as high as 1
percent in May and was 0.5 basis point lower at 0.875 percent as
of 9:53 a.m. in Tokyo today.  “Regional banks need something more profitable than
 government bonds  to survive the competition and many are
considering lending overseas,” Yamaji said.  Mizuho, along with Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. and
Standard Chartered Plc, earlier this month led a $1.5 billion
loan for  Brazil ’s Banco Itau BBA SA. Among 35 participants were
regional lenders  Gunma Bank Ltd. (8334) ,  Hachijuni Bank Ltd. (8359)  and
 Hyakugo Bank Ltd. (8369) , according to Yamaji. The three- and four-year
facilities would be priced at as much as 155 basis points more
than Libor, a person familiar with the matter said in May.  “Our priority is to boost lending relative to deposits,”
said Akira Murata, a spokesman for Hyakugo Bank. “We want to
gain enough experience to feel confident in calling overseas
loans one of our revenue streams.”  Kajima’s Bonds  Elsewhere in  Japan ’s credit markets, Kajima Corp. plans a
10 billion yen sale of five-year notes, according to a statement
from SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. yesterday. The construction
company last offered bonds on Sept. 19, raising 20 billion yen
of 0.89 percent debt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Japan’s corporate bonds have handed investors a 0.1 percent
loss since the end of June, compared with a 0.3 percent decline
for the nation’s sovereign notes, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data. Company debt worldwide has lost 0.18
percent.  The yen was at 101.05 per dollar as of 9:57 a.m. in Tokyo
today, weakening from a two-month high of 93.79 on June 13.  Five-year  credit-default swaps  to insure Japan’s sovereign
notes against non-payment were at 74 basis points yesterday,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill
Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. The gauge is down from 90.5 basis points on
June 20, the highest level since July 2012, the data show.  Vietnam Loan  Last month, regional lenders including Shizuoka Bank Ltd.,
Chiba Bank Ltd., Yamaguchi Bank Ltd. and Tokyo Star Bank Ltd.
joined the $5 billion loan for Idemitsu Kosan Co.’s oil refinery
in  Vietnam . The entry reduced HSBC and Credit Agricole SA’s
portions of the deal by as much as 60 percent, according to six
people familiar with the matter.  Shizuoka Bank in April raised $500 million in the first
public sale of U.S. dollar-denominated convertible bonds by a
Japanese company since 2002, preparing funds for lending abroad.
The nation’s biggest regional lender by market value plans to
increase foreign currency financing by 29 percent to 450 billion
yen in the fiscal year started April 1, according to Hiromitsu
Umehara, the general manager in charge of structured finance at
the company’s Tokyo branch.  Going Abroad  Increased competition from new market entrants is
encouraging  Tokyo  Star, which began overseas lending in 2010, to
seek ways to differentiate itself, Christopher Taniguchi, a
managing director of the bank said in an interview.  Stockpiles of  sovereign   debt  at local lenders totaled 43.4
trillion yen in May, equivalent almost to the annual economic
output of  Argentina .  “We started lending abroad this year through syndicated
loans to diversify away from JGB investments,” said Masashi
Amada, an assistant general manager at Gunma Bank’s corporate
planning department. “The target for the time being is about 10
billion yen.”  The lender joined Tokyo Star and Chugoku Bank Ltd. in the
$500 million bullet loan for Indonesia Eximbank in May, said
Yamaji of Mizuho, which also took part in the deal. Japanese
institutions contributed $132 million, the Indonesian company
said at the time.  Hyakugo Bank, based in Mie, in central Japan, plans to
increase annual lending for large companies headquartered in
Tokyo and  Osaka  by 55 billion yen by March 2016 via cross-border
syndicated loans, according to its mid-year business plan.
Outstanding loans in the business totaled 405.7 billion yen last
fiscal year.  “Their deposits are growing faster than loans while
lending profit is decreasing,” Nomura’s Sato said. “Access to
more borrowers is good news for the banks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Emi Urabe in Tokyo at 
 eurabe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  