-- Japan’s Bullet Trains Face Challenge From Low-Fare Airlines
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r
-- 2013-07-09T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/japan-s-bullet-trains-face-challenge-from-low-fare-airlines.html
The battle between three new budget
airlines in  Japan  is benefiting businessmen as well as tourists,
as operators of the bullet trains that have dominated long-distance travel since 1964 cut prices to defend market share.  West Japan Railway Co. (9021)  and Kyushu Railway Co. started
reducing advance ticket prices this month by as much as 34
percent to 14,000 yen ($140) between the central city of  Osaka 
and the southern city of Kagoshima over the next three months.  While that’s still more than three times the lowest fare of
3,980 yen offered by Peach Aviation Ltd., the cuts suggest
budget carriers are gaining ground. Peach, Jetstar Japan Co. and
AirAsia Japan Co. began flying last year in a $19 billion
domestic aviation market dominated by  Japan Airlines Co. (9201)  and All
Nippon Airways Co. that competes against the nation’s four high-speed rail operators.  “It’s the beginning of something,” said  Peter Harbison ,
executive chairman at the Sydney-based CAPA Centre for Aviation.
“You want to be picking off those other city pairs that aren’t
served well. If the bullet-train operators are smart, they’ll
try to head it off more.”  West Japan Railway, known as JR West, predicts profit will
drop 4.5 percent to 57.5 billion yen in the year ending March,
even as it forecast sales will rise 0.9 percent to 1.31 trillion
yen.  Central Japan Railway Co. (9022) , the biggest bullet-train
company, may also face competition from Peach, which plans to
add flights in October between Tokyo and Osaka.  1 Percent  Based at Osaka’s Kansai airport, Peach started operations
in March 2012. The closely held carrier is  38.7 percent  owned by
All Nippon, while Hong Kong-based Far Eastern Aviation Holdings
Ltd. holds 33.3 percent and the  Innovation Network Corp. of
Japan  has 28 percent.  The airline said it has tripled its fleet to nine planes
since last year and had carried 2 million passengers as of May
to its seven Japanese and three overseas destinations.  That’s still less than 1 percent of the  307 million  trips
on high-speed trains in the year ended March 2012. In
comparison, all domestic flights carried  79 million  passengers
in the period.  “We’re not targeting bullet-train passengers,” said
Sayako Suetsugu, a spokeswoman for Peach. “We have a whole
range of people who fly with us.”  That includes “some business travelers,” she said,
declining to say how many.  Establishing Presence  Peach filled 78 percent of plane seats between the start of
service in March 2012 and the end of March this year, it said.
That rose to 91.3 percent during the nation’s Golden Week
holidays in late April and early May, Peach said.  Peach flies three times a day between Osaka and Kagoshima
on Airbus SAS A320 planes that can carry 180 passengers, with a
flight time of 1 hour and 10 minutes.  In comparison, JR West runs 23 bullet trains a day to
Kagoshima, each of which can carry 540 people. In  Tokyo , the
shortest gap between bullet-train departures is as little as
three minutes.  “Low-cost carriers are starting to establish a presence in
the Japanese travel markets,” said Nicholas Cunningham, a
Tokyo-based transport analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. “JR West
could, in our view, afford to consider further such offerings.”  JR Central isn’t offering special discounts to compete
against low-cost carriers as its customers are mainly business
travelers, not the tourists who fly budget carriers, said
Teruyoshi Nagashima, a spokesman at the Nagoya-based company.  Rail Network  Jetstar Japan is the only one of the three budget carriers
started last year that offers flights between Tokyo and Osaka,
the route JR Central’s trains run. None of the three carriers
have flights between cities on the bullet-train network of the
second-largest operator,  East Japan Railway Co. (9020)   Japan’s bullet trains have grown from the first 553-kilometer (344 mile) line that connected Tokyo and Osaka in 1964
to a  2,620-kilometer  network. They have 250 arrivals and
departures between Tokyo and Osaka a day, compared with 96 for
airlines on that route, according to JR Central.  Japan was first in the world to develop high-speed rail,
defined as having trains that run at least 200 kilometers per
hour. Top speed has since been raised to 320 kph, intensifying
the battle with planes.  The competition for passengers is becoming more domestic
after All Nippon said last month it’s buying out  Malaysia ’s
 AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA)  in their budget carrier venture.  “We’re aware of the competition,” said Yosuke Tsuda, a
Tokyo-based spokesman for JR West. “Still, the frequency of
trains we run and the number of people we can carry is very
different.”  The railroad company has already won passengers from
airlines since it started direct service between Osaka and
Kagoshima in March 2011 in cooperation with Kyushu Railway. JR
West more than doubled its share of travelers who fly or take
the train between the Kansai area, which includes Osaka, and
Kagoshima to  35 percent  in the year ended March 2012, from 13
percent a year earlier, according to the company’s latest
figures.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  