-- Japan Stock Futures Drop as Bank of Japan Policy Meeting Begins
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-07-09T23:09:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/japan-stock-futures-drop-as-bank-of-japan-policy-meeting-begins.html
Japanese  stock futures  fell,
indicating the Topix index will retreat from a seven-week high,
as a survey of economists showed they are ditching forecasts for
the  Bank of Japan  to expand its record stimulus this year.  American Depositary Receipts  of Toyota Motor Corp., the
world’s largest carmaker that gets 75 percent of sales abroad,
sank 0.5 percent as the yen strengthened against the dollar.
ADRs of Sharp Corp., the Japanese TV and solar panel maker, slid
0.8 percent. ADRs of BHP Billiton Ltd. gained 1.3 percent from
the close in Sydney as metals prices increased.  Futures on  Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  expiring in
September closed at 14,415 in Chicago yesterday, down from
14,460 at the close in  Osaka , Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 14,450 in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on
 Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index slid 0.2 percent. Futures on
Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index advanced 0.4 percent and New
Zealand’s NZX 50 Index rose 0.2 percent.  “The market’s had a good run and is vulnerable,” Evan Lucas, a Melbourne-based market strategist at IG Markets Ltd., a
provider of trading services for equities, currencies and
commodities, said in a telephone interview. “The feeling is the
BOJ has done enough for this year and there is a reasonable
amount of change coming through from central-bank measures that
are feeding through to consumers and businesses.”  Japan’s Topix index added 2.1 percent yesterday to close at
the highest level since May 22. The gauge last week capped its
biggest increase across three weeks since April 2009, amid a
weakening yen and optimism Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will push
through economic reforms after winning upper house elections on
July 21.  BOJ Meeting  Thirteen of 20 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
completed July 8 saw no extra BOJ policy loosening in the next
six months, a reversal from a poll in May. The central bank’s
board will leave the scale of its bond purchases unchanged at
the two-day meeting starting today, according to every economist
polled in the latest survey.  The yen rose to 101.13 per dollar as of 7:41 a.m. in  Tokyo 
from 101.29 at the close of equity markets at yesterday.  Futures contracts on the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index
of mainland Chinese companies trading in Hong Kong advanced 0.2
percent. The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. rose 0.9 percent in  New York 
yesterday.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index, the benchmark regional
equities gauge, fell 9 percent through yesterday from a five-year high on May 20 amid concern the U.S. Federal Reserve will
begin tapering stimulus as  China’s economy  slows and Japan puts
off unveiling economic reform policies until after upper house
elections later this month.  Relative Value  That left the gauge trading at 12.9 times average estimated
earnings compared with 15 for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
and 13.1 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  World economic growth will struggle to accelerate this year
as a U.S. expansion weakens, China’s economy levels off and
Europe’s recession deepens, the  International Monetary Fund 
said. Global growth will be 3.1 percent this year, unchanged
from the 2012 rate, and less than the 3.3 percent forecast in
April, the Washington-based fund said yesterday, trimming its
prediction for this year a fifth consecutive time.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  gained 0.1
percent today. U.S. stocks yesterday rose for a fourth day amid
optimism companies will report better-than-forecast earnings and
that economic growth is strong enough to withstand any reduction
in Federal Reserve stimulus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  