-- Japan’s Amari Calls for Pay Rises as Minimum Wage Panel Meets
-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a   a n d   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2013-07-09T04:26:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/japan-s-amari-calls-for-pay-rises-as-minimum-wage-panel-meets.html
Japan’s Economy Minister Akira Amari
said the government hopes salaries rise as a government panel
meets to decide on whether to raise the minimum wage.  “Of course we want pay to rise faster than inflation,”
Amari told reporters in  Tokyo  today. The government wants to
meet with labor unions and company representatives in the Autumn
regarding creating jobs and improving labor market conditions,
Amari said.  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is pushing monetary and fiscal
stimulus to end more than a decade of deflation and revive the
economy. The government wants salaries to increase so that
inflation does not eat away at consumers’ spending power and
undermine a recovery.  “We haven’t made any specific requests or instructions to
the minimum wage committee,” Amari said. The panel  started  its
annual meeting last week and will make a proposal on minimum
wages at the start of August, according to the labor ministry.  Each of  Japan ’s 47 regional governments will take this
proposal and then decide on the minimum wage in the prefecture.
Currently, the  national average minimum  is 749 yen ($7.41) per
hour, and ranges from 652 yen in two rural prefectures to 850
yen in Tokyo.  Even as companies declare higher profits on a weaker yen,
 average wages  haven’t risen in 12 of the last 13 months. Abe met
in February with Japanese business leaders and urged them to
increase wages and help end deflation.  Separately, Finance Minister Taro Aso and ministry
officials met leading members of the Keidanren, the country’s
biggest business lobby, in March and called for wage increases,
Yuzuru Takeuchi, parliamentary secretary for finance and a lower
house legislator, said in an interview last month.  The government plans to raise the minimum wage by more than
2 percent, the Sankei newspaper reported today, without citing
anyone.  The  Bank of Japan  aims to achieve a 2 percent inflation
target over two years. The government plans to raise the  sales
tax  to 8 percent in April from the current 5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net ;
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  