-- Japan Seeks to Buy Alternatives to Oregon Wheat in Tender
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 2013-07-09T08:32:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/japan-seeks-to-buy-alternatives-to-oregon-wheat-in-tender-1-.html
Japan  is seeking to buy alternatives
to  Oregon  wheat in a tender on July 11 as the government
extended the suspension of purchases from the U.S. state for a
sixth week after the discovery of unapproved gene-altered crop.  Japan plans to buy 23,963 metric tons of club wheat grown
in neighboring Washington state, 1,710 tons of U.S. soft-red
winter, and 1,497 tons of Australian premium-white, the Ministry
of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries said today.  Western-white wheat from Oregon, which is now banned, was
used in Japan to make cakes and cookies, the ministry said in a
statement. Millers could face shortages if replacements aren’t
found after the suspension of shipments on May 30, Hiromi
Iwahama, a director of grain trading at the ministry, said June
27. The ministry also plans to buy 22,784 tons of western-red-spring wheat from  Canada , used in bread, in the tender, it said.  The government can’t resume imports from Oregon before
establishing the system to detect modified strains, Iwahama said.
Japan’s food-safety law bans sales of food containing GM crops
that haven’t been confirmed safe by the nation’s health ministry.
Contaminated supplies must be shipped back to exporting
countries or disposed of.  The Agriculture Ministry controls overseas purchases and
domestic sales to stabilize supply in Japan, which depends on
imports for almost 90 percent of its wheat. The U.S. is the
world’s biggest exporter. The  Consumers Union  of Japan on June 4
asked the government to ban imports of U.S. wheat after the
modified strain developed by Monsanto Co. was found in an Oregon
farm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brett Miller  at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  