-- Jets Flying Themselves Can Lull Pilots Into Complacency
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-07-09T20:46:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/jets-flying-themselves-can-lull-pilots-into-complacency.html
The  Boeing Co. (BA)  777 is one of the
world’s most advanced jets, capable of flying automatically most
of the time and catching pilot errors before they endanger a
flight. That technology may also be a drawback.  Because it’s so tempting to let the 777 fly itself, pilots
can allow their flying skills to atrophy or become confused when
systems don’t work as expected, said aviation safety experts and
pilots who have flown it.  Determining how the pilots of Asiana Airlines Flight 214
interacted with the jet’s automation has become a top priority
for investigators looking into why the plane crash-landed at San
Francisco International Airport on July 6, U.S. National
Transportation Safety Board Chairman Debbie Hersman said
yesterday in an interview.  “You’ve seen a lot of investigations internationally” in
which aircraft automation contributed to an accident, Hersman
said. “It’s not a new thing.”  Two people died and scores were injured when the tail of
the Asiana 777 arriving from  Seoul  struck a seawall short of the
runway and the plane slid across the ground. The jet had slowed
to 40 miles (64 kilometers) per hour below its target landing
speed on approach and was in danger of losing lift, according to
preliminary information from the flight-data recorder.  The crew didn’t begin evasive action until seven seconds
before impact, Hersman has said. The pilot at the controls had
only 43 hours of experience in the wide-body 777 after advancing
from narrow-body jets, and was making his first landing at San
Francisco in that aircraft type. The management pilot sitting
next to him got approval to train other pilots a month earlier.  Fighting Technology  The flight’s arrival required more manual flying skills
than usually needed in San Francisco because a radio beam known
as a glide slope, used to automatically guide planes to the
runway, was inoperable, according to the safety board.  Cockpit automation has played a role in several recent
accidents by confusing pilots, particularly when they became
startled or the equipment acted in unusual ways, Rory Kay, the
former air safety chairman of the  Air Line Pilots Association ,
said in an interview. ALPA is the largest pilots’ union in North
America.  “How well trained are we to handle departure from the
norm?” said Kay, who declined to discuss the Asiana accident.  On Feb. 25, 2009, a  Turkish Airlines Inc.  Boeing 737-800
crashed on approach to Amsterdam, killing nine people. An
erroneous altitude reading caused the plane’s automatic
throttles to slow the plane, causing it to  lose lift  and plunge
to the ground, the Dutch Safety Board concluded.  Misunderstandings Accumulate  While the pilots had several opportunities to prevent the
accident, the plane’s automated systems worked against them, the
investigation concluded. After pilots added power to regain
speed, for example, the autopilot pulled the power back again,
according to the investigation.  “A series of small misunderstandings start to accumulate
that put the plane into a situation that makes the plane harder
to handle,” David Woods, an Ohio State University engineering
professor who has studied the issue, said in an interview.  The U.S. Federal Aviation Administration is now trying to
determine whether pilot training should better address cockpit
automation, Woods said.  The technology is so good that pilots have come to rely on
it, Woods said.  “It is making things go smoothly and effectively. When it
doesn’t, it’s kind of a surprise,” he said.  Stick, Rudder  Pilots today need to have technical savvy as well as
traditional “stick and rudder” skills, John Cox, a former
airline pilot who has participated in NTSB investigations, said
in an interview.  “The concern is the pilots who become automation-dependent
to the degradation of their manual flying skills,” Cox said.  The 777, like similar Airbus SAS models, has automatic
systems to prevent the plane from going too slowly.
Investigators will want to know how the flight crew set the
plane’s speed, and whether the systems malfunctioned or were
overridden, Cox said.  “Technology is a two-edged sword,” former NTSB Chairman
Jim Hall said in an interview on Bloomberg Television today.
“It can provide great safety on modern aircraft, but at the
same time we have to be prepared if that technology is not
available.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  