-- More Job Openings Signal Optimism About U.S. Growth: Economy
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-07-09T20:18:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/job-openings-in-u-s-rise-to-3-83-million-from-3-8-million.html
Job openings  climbed in May and
hiring picked up as U.S. companies grew more upbeat about the
economy’s prospects for the second half of the year.  The number of  positions  waiting to be filled increased to
3.83 million from the prior month’s revised 3.8 million, which
was higher than initially estimated, the Labor Department said
today in  Washington . Openings are hovering close to a five-year
high of 3.9 million reached in February. Another report showed
more small businesses signaled they plan to add workers.  The figures follow data last week showing employers,
emboldened by stronger housing and auto sales that underscore
sustained demand, added more jobs than forecast in June. The
momentum in the labor market gives Federal Reserve policy makers
room to dial back record monetary stimulus aimed at spurring
growth and getting more Americans back to work.  “Businesses are beginning to hire in a steady and more
meaningful manner than they have in the past,” said  Millan Mulraine , director of U.S. rates research at TD Securities USA
LLC in  New York , who projected 3.85 million job openings in May.
“Hiring is not exceptionally strong but it’s steady and at
fairly decent levels.”  Stocks rose for a fourth day amid optimism companies will
report better-than-forecast earnings for the second quarter. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.7 percent to 1,652.32 at
the close in New York.  Struggling overseas economies remain a headwind for
American companies. U.K. manufacturing unexpectedly shrank in
May, casting doubt on the strength of the recovery in the second
quarter.  Factory output  fell 0.8 percent after a 0.2 percent
decrease in April, the  Office for National Statistics  said today
in  London .  IMF Forecast  The  International Monetary Fund  today trimmed its 2013
forecast for the global economy. It also reduced its projection
for U.S. growth to 1.7 percent from an April forecast of 1.9
percent.  “The growth in the U.S. has slowed down, and they’re
catching up to that,”  Jay Bryson , a global economist at  Wells
Fargo Securities LLC  in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , said after
the IMF released its report. “This is not the U.S. economy of
the 1990s that was a locomotive for the rest of the world,”
though the U.S. remains “one of the primary engines of
growth.”  The U.S. job openings data puts the labor market picture in
sharper focus after the June employment report.  June Employment  Payrolls climbed 195,000 for a second straight month, while
revisions added 70,000 jobs to the employment count for April
and May, the Labor Department reported last week. The
unemployment  rate  held at 7.6 percent, while hourly earnings in
the year ended in June advanced 2.2 percent, the biggest year-over-year gain since July 2011.  A report today from the  National Federation of Independent
Business  showed a measure of job creation plans rose to the
fourth-highest since 2007. The Washington-based group’s index of
small-business  optimism  eased last month to 93.5 from 94.4 in
May.  The Jobs Openings and Labor Turnover Survey, or JOLTS,
showed the number of people hired increased to 4.44 million in
May, pushing the hiring rate to 3.3 percent from 3.2 percent.  There are about 3.1 job seekers for every opening, up from
about 1.8 when the last recession began in December 2007. It
reached a high of 6.7 in July 2009, the month after the
recession ended.  Skills Mismatch  “In our view, a mismatch in skills between employers and
job seekers is one of the factors that has contributed to higher
structural unemployment relative to pre-recession levels,”
Cooper Howes, an economist at Barclays Plc in New York, said in
an e-mail to clients. The ratio of job seekers to openings “has
fallen sharply since the end of the recession and, given that it
is already close to pre-recession levels, suggests that there
may be less slack in the labor market that first appears.”  In the 12 months ended in May the economy created a net 1.8
million jobs, representing 51.9 million hires and 50.1 million
separations.  Sustained demand and the improvement in the labor market
are giving Fed policy makers room to begin tapering their record
$85 billion a month in bond purchases.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last month the central bank
might start scaling back its bond-buying program this year and
end it in mid-2014 if the economy achieves the Fed’s growth
objectives. Minutes of the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s June
meeting will be released tomorrow.  Firings Stable  Total firings, which exclude retirements and other
voluntary departures, were little changed at 1.74 million,
today’s Labor Department data show.  Another 2.2 million people quit their jobs in May, up from
2.19 million the prior month. The quits rate held at 1.6
percent. It averaged 2 percent during the previous expansion and
went as high as 2.3 percent in late 2006.  Retailers accounted for the biggest increase in available
employment in May, while the category encompassing professional
and business services showed a decrease.  Recovering home values and higher stock prices are putting
Americans in a position to capitalize on lower  interest rates 
and make big-ticket purchases, giving companies the confidence
to keep hiring.  Motor Homes  An improved job market and rising  consumer confidence  are
driving demand at companies such as  Winnebago Industries Inc. (WGO) 
That’s prompted the Forest City, Iowa-based maker of motor homes
to take on more workers and increase overtime hours, according
to Chief Executive Officer Randy Potts.  In the quarter ended June 1, Winnebago’s shipments of motor
homes were the highest in five years, Potts said on a June 27
earnings call, up 55 percent from a year earlier. Order backlogs
have grown for six consecutive quarters.  “Labor is always a challenge when you’re growing,” Potts
said. “We did find the people we needed to achieve the
production rates we had scheduled. We worked a lot of overtime
and we have hired a lot of people.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  