-- JPMorgan Buys Korean Stocks Trading at 2009 Valuation
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h o
-- 2013-07-10T06:57:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/jpmorgan-buys-cheapest-korean-stocks-since-2009-as-profits-rise.html
The lowest South Korean equity
 valuations  since 2009 are spurring JPMorgan Asset Management and
Charlemagne Capital Ltd. to buy as earnings projections climb to
a record and a weaker won boosts exporters.  The MSCI  Korea  Index lost 7.2 percent last month as
speculation of reduced U.S. stimulus sparked outflows from
emerging-market stocks. The Korea gauge fell to 1 times net
assets, the lowest valuation since March 2009, even as analysts
predict  profits  will rise 36 percent in the next 12 months to an
all-time high. That compares with 16 percent for the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  While international investors sold the most South Korean
shares in almost two years in June and economic growth held at
the slowest pace since 2009, JPMorgan Asset Management says
exporters will benefit as the won slips from a more than four-year high against the yen. Charlemagne’s Julian Mayo bought
Samsung Electronics Co. shares last month as the company’s
price-to-book ratio declined to an 18-month low.  “Long-term investors should be buying Korean stocks,”
Mayo, who oversees $2.7 billion in emerging markets assets as
Charlemagne’s London-based co-chief investment officer, said in
a July 9 interview in  Seoul . “If companies we like become
cheaper, I expect we’ll buy more.”  The last time the MSCI Korea Index’s valuation reached
these levels four years ago, the  gauge  advanced more than 50
percent in six months. It’s valued at a 28 percent discount
versus the MSCI Emerging Markets Index, which trades for 1.4
times net assets, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fund Outflows  The  emerging markets gauge  tumbled 13 percent from May 22
to yesterday after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
policy makers may scale back bond purchases if the U.S. labor
market improves. The MSCI Korea gauge dropped 9 percent, while
the nation’s benchmark Kospi index 8.2 percent. MSCI’s index
lost 0.2 percent today and the Kospi sank 0.3 percent.  South Korea’s open economy makes it vulnerable to
“external shock,” according to Yoojeong Oh, a Singapore-based
 money manager  at Aberdeen Asset Management Plc. Client
withdrawals prevented Aberdeen from making new investments in
South Korean stocks, Oh said by phone on July 3.  International investors sold a combined $14.3 billion of
equities last month in the nine Asian emerging markets tracked
by Bloomberg, led by South Korean  outflows  of $4.5 billion,
which were the largest since August 2011. Foreigners pulled
$615.4 million from the nation’s stocks this month as stronger-than-estimated U.S. jobs data boosted the case for the Fed to
curb so-called quantitative easing.  Sustainable Growth  For  South Korea , “just given the size and how open it is
to foreign investments, it is susceptible,” Aberdeen’s Oh said.
Her firm oversees about $315 billion.  The possibility of the Fed winding back stimulus signals
U.S. economic growth is becoming more sustainable, according to
Grace Tam, a Hong Kong-based global market strategist at
JPMorgan Asset, which manages about $1.5 trillion.  “It’s going to benefit the Korean stock market,”
especially electronics and auto exporters, Tam said by phone on
July 5. “We have been buying South Korean shares selectively
because they have had very deep corrections.” She declined to
identify specific companies.  Exporters comprise more than 40 percent of the MSCI Korea
index.  Samsung Electronics (005930) , the world’s largest smartphone
maker, represents 25 percent of the gauge, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Kia Valuations  Shares of Samsung, based in the southern city of Suwon,
sank 13 percent in June. While the company’s second-quarter
earnings missed estimates, analysts surveyed by Bloomberg are
still projecting third-quarter operating  profit  to reach a
record 10.6 trillion won ($9.3 billion). The stock traded at 1.4
times net assets on July 8, the lowest since January 2012.  Charlemagne’s Mayo said his firm bought shares of  Kia
Motors Corp. (000270) , an affiliate of Hyundai Motor Co., in recent
months. Hyundai Motor’s shares trade for 6.1 times projected 12-month profit on July 10, while Kia is valued at a multiple of
6.2, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s at least 49 percent
lower than  Japan ’s Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s largest
automaker, which trades for 12.1 times.  Samsung Electronics’ shares gained 0.9 percent today,
rising for a second day.  Hyundai Motor (005380)  climbed 0.7 percent,
while Kia added 0.8 percent.  “Korea is a very attractive market,” Kelvin Tay, the
Singapore-based chief investment officer for the southern Asia-Pacific region at UBS AG’s wealth management unit, wrote in a
July 3 e-mail. “Earnings should improve from this point. The
slower rate of depreciation of the yen should also help boost
 market sentiment  on Korea.”  Economic Recovery  The won’s 4.2 percent decline since it settled at 9.221
against the yen on May 22, the strongest level since September
2008, has eased concerns about the competitiveness of South
Korean exporters versus Japanese rivals. The won has
strengthened 22 percent against the yen since the end of October
as Japan pledged unprecedented monetary stimulus to bolster its
economy.  A weaker won will help the South Korean economy recover in
the second half, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a July 4
report. South Korea’s first-quarter  gross domestic product  grew
1.5 percent, matching the previous three months’ pace, which was
the slowest rate since the third quarter of 2009, according to
Bank of Korea data.  South Korea offers a “very exciting new opportunity,”
Samir Shah, an investment manager at London-based Advance
Emerging Capital Ltd., wrote in a July 3 e-mail. “Valuations
are relatively cheap. Furthermore, the currency has reversed
against the yen. We see corporate earnings being revised
upwards.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Cho in Seoul at 
 ccho28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  