-- JPMorgan as Biggest Underwriter Sees More Losses: Credit Markets
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2013-07-09T16:15:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/jpmorgan-as-biggest-underwriter-sees-more-losses-credit-markets.html
The chief market strategist at
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the world’s biggest underwriter of
corporate bonds, says the worst first half of the year on record
for the securities may only deepen.  The notes have lost 3.7 percent on average since May 22
when Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke told Congress the
central bank may begin curtailing its unprecedented stimulus
program if economic conditions warrant, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data show. The losses compare with a drop of 2.9
percent for government securities.  The performance is a shock to bulls who expected the extra
yield offered by corporates relative to government bonds to
cushion any selloff that stemmed from the prospects for higher
interest rates and a stronger economy. Instead, diminished
dealer inventories of the securities brought on by regulatory
changes has caused liquidity to drop, exacerbating the price
declines.  “Through a whole set of new, post-crisis regulations, the
potential buyers do not have the same capacity to absorb credit
risk,” said  Jan Loeys , who heads a global asset allocation
strategy team at JPMorgan in New York, in a telephone interview.
“The banks don’t have the same ability to absorb this
anymore.”  Dealer Holdings  The 21 primary dealers that do business with the Fed
reduced their net long-term investment-grade bond holdings by 22
percent since April 3, when the central bank began  reporting 
more granular data, to $8.77 billion on June 26.  Investors have yanked about $60 billion from U.S. bond
funds since Bernanke told Congress that the central bank may
start reducing its $85 billion of monthly debt purchases if the
labor market continues to improve and “we have confidence that
is going to be sustained,” according to the Washington-based
Investment Company Institute.  Buyers are trying to shield themselves from losses after
purchasing $16.4 trillion of corporate debt since 2008, with
yields plunging to an unprecedented low of 3.09 percent on May
2, according to Bloomberg and Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data. They’ve since risen to 3.88 percent, eating away
almost $400 billion of market value from bonds that have a face
value of about $9 trillion.  JPMorgan underwrote $140 billion of corporate debt this
year, or 6.9 percent of the market, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  ‘Tactically Underweight’  “We continue to be concerned about the rotation out of
high-grade bond funds, as flows follow returns, and remain
tactically underweight high grade,” wrote Bank of America Corp.
strategists led by Hans Mikkelsen in a July 5 report. “We are
very concerned about the process of market capitulation toward
the view of significantly rising interest rates without another
opportunity to offload duration at higher prices.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate bonds from default in the U.S. fell for a second day.
The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, decreased 2.3 basis points to a mid-price of
81 basis points as of 12:11 p.m. in New York, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Default Swaps  The credit-default swaps index, at the lowest level on an
intraday basis since June 19, typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, fell 1.3 basis points to 16.5 basis points
as of 12:12 p.m. in New York. The gauge narrows when investors
favor assets such as company debentures and widens when they
seek the perceived safety of government securities.  Bonds of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  are the most actively
traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today,
accounting for 4.8 percent of the volume of dealer trades of $1
million or more as of 12:12 p.m. in New York, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  The  Bloomberg Global Investment Grade Corporate Bond Index (BCOR) 
has lost 0.63 percent this month, bringing the decline for the
year to 4.62 percent.  Spreads Widen  Relative yields on company bonds have widened 39 basis
points since May 22, when Bernanke signaled the Fed may slow its
stimulus this year, to 232 basis points, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data show. During that period, yields on 10-year
U.S. Treasuries rose 60 basis points, to 2.64 percent, Bloomberg
 data  show.  While the extra spread on corporates acted in the past to
absorb interest-rate rises, they aren’t doing this now because
credit gained the most from the “search for yield” fueled by
the stimulus policies of central banks globally, according to
Loeys. He said that “weak secondary markets means there is
probably pent-up selling pressure” making it too early to take
a bullish view on credit.  “In the past, the duration positions were in Treasuries
and now they’re not in Treasuries, they’re in credit,” said
Loeys, who said his view doesn’t represent the entire bank.
“The desire is to get rid of credit. Treasuries are already
shorted.”  Music ‘Stopping’  Issuance surged to unprecedented levels as companies sought
to take advantage of plummeting yields resulting from the Fed’s
bond-purchasing program, which has pumped more than $2.5
trillion into the financial system since 2008.  Fed policy makers said June 19 after a two-day meeting that
downside risks to the economy have “diminished.” Bernanke said
in a news conference the same day that the central bank may
probably begin tapering its asset purchases later in 2013 and
end them around mid-2014, provided the economy performs in line
with its projections.  “Everybody was happy as it happened,” Loeys said. “Now
the music is stopping and investors are trying to reduce and
they can’t.”  Average daily trading volumes on high-yield corporate bonds
have fallen 6 percent since May 22 compared with the earlier
part of the year, according to  Trace data . Volumes have dropped
4 percent for  investment-grade bonds .  Biggest Challenge  Primary dealers cut their  corporate-debt inventories  by 76
percent from the peak in October 2007 through the end of March
as the 27-country Basel Committee on Banking Supervision raised
minimum capital requirements in 2010 and U.S. Congress passed
the Dodd-Frank Act.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  Chief Executive Officer John Stumpf said
on May 30 that the biggest challenge to bankers is managing the
risk of losses resulting from rising interest rates. Goldman
Sachs Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein warned on May 2
that the interest-rate environment has parallels to 1994, when a
sudden and sharp increase in rates caught many investors off-guard.  “The problem is not higher interest rates in themselves --
higher rates are normally good for credit spreads -- but the
rate of increase in rates,” Bank of America’s Mikkelsen wrote
in the July 5 report. “At some point something has to give.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  