-- Kenya Holds Key Rate to Let Earlier Monetary Easing Take Effect
-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 2013-07-09T13:54:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/kenya-holds-key-rate-to-let-earlier-monetary-easing-take-effect.html
Kenya ’s central bank left its key
lending rate unchanged to allow two reductions earlier this year
to filter through the economy.  The Monetary Policy Committee, led by Governor Njuguna Ndung’u, kept its benchmark  interest rate  at 8.5 percent, the
Nairobi-based Central Bank of Kenya said in an e-mailed
statement today. All 10 economists and analysts in a Bloomberg
survey forecast that the policy rate would remain on hold.  There is “the need to provide time for previous MPC
decisions to work through the economy,” the committee said.  Below-target inflation has given policy makers space to
lower borrowing costs this year, while increased public spending
in the budget period that began July 1 may help spur the
economy.  Inflation (KNPRIYY)  accelerated to 4.9 percent in June from 4.1
percent in the previous month, staying below the government’s
target of 5 percent, plus or minus 2.5 percentage points, the
central bank said.  Inflation has eased this year as favorable weather boosts
crop production and the government cut gasoline prices.  Uhuru Kenyatta was sworn-in as president in April seeking
to repair an economy that’s growing slower than before violence
that followed a disputed election in Dec. 2007. About 1,100
people dead in the attacks, which disrupted farming and scared
off tourists.  Kenyatta is targeting annual expansion of at least 10
percent compared with an estimated 5.8 percent this year. The
 economy , the largest in  East Africa , expanded 7 percent in 2007.  Kenya is the world’s biggest exporter of black tea and
supplies a third of all flowers traded in  Europe .  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in Nairobi at 
 dmalingha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  