-- Veelers Calls for Cavendish Ejection After Tour de France Crash
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-07-09T22:47:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/kittel-wins-tour-de-france-stage-in-sprint-froome-keeps-leads.html
Tom Veelers called on Tour de France
organizers to eject  Mark Cavendish  from cycling’s most
prestigious race after the two riders collided near the finish
line of yesterday’s Stage 10.  With the pair riding side by side during a mass sprint in
the northern port city of Saint-Malo, television replays showed
2011 world road-racing champion Cavendish knocking the arm of
Veelers, who lost his balance and crashed onto the road.  “When I see the video it’s very clear it’s his fault,”
Veelers said of Cavendish. “He has to be disqualified.”  Marcel Kittel of the Argos-Shimano team won the 122-mile
(196-kilometer) stage by a bike’s length over his fellow German
Andre Greipel, with U.K. rider Cavendish third. Chris Froome
kept a 1 minute, 25 second overall lead as the race resumed with
182 riders on flat terrain after a rest day.  Cavendish -- a noted sprinter who has won the points
classification in the  Tour de France , Giro d’Italia and Vuelta a
Espana -- denied wrongdoing, saying he was following the curve
of the pavement as he approached the finish line.  “I follow the road, I’m not going to hit the barriers,”
Cavendish, 28, told reporters. “The road was bearing left.”  Cavendish posted on Twitter that, after seeing a replay of
the incident, he didn’t think he moved off his line.  “I’m actually coming past Veelers and we touch elbows when
he moves,” he said. “Anyway, hope he’s OK.”  It was Kittel’s second stage win of the 100th edition of
the Tour, one more than Cavendish and Greipel of the Lotto-Belisol team. Cavendish, who rides for Omega Pharma, looked back
toward where Veelers fell and shook his head as he crossed the
finish line.  Apology Sought  “It’s unbelievable that something like that happens,”
Veelers said. “I want an apology at least. I’m a little
finished with Cavendish.”  Team Sky’s Froome finished 24th yesterday to keep his race
lead over Alejandro Valverde of the Movistar team.  Froome, a Kenya-born Briton who was second to teammate
Bradley Wiggins last year, took the lead by winning the first
mountain stage in the Pyrenees on July 6. The 28-year-old
protected his advantage the following day even after his
teammates left him isolated when they failed to match the pace
of the Garmin and Movistar squads.  Wiggins is absent at this year’s race because of injury.  Today’s stage is a 20.5-mile time trial to Mont-Saint-Michel, an islet which is connected to the north coast of  France 
by a causeway. The Tour, which covers 2,116 miles, ends July 21
in Paris.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  