-- Kluger’s 12-Year Insider-Trading Term Upheld on Appeal
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2013-07-09T19:18:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/kluger-s-12-year-insider-trading-term-upheld-on-appeal.html
Matthew Kluger , a former lawyer who
spearheaded a 17-year insider-trading scheme, must serve his 12-year prison term, the longest ever in such a case, an appeals
court said in denying his bid for a new sentence.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Philadelphia today upheld
Kluger’s sentence for stealing corporate merger tips from four
law firms, including Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati PC. The
plot generated $37 million in illegal profits, most of which
went to a New York stock trader to whom Kluger passed the
information. Kluger pleaded guilty.  “Kluger was an attorney who took an oath to uphold the
law,” the appeals court said in a 48-page ruling, turning aside
his claim that he got an “unreasonable” sentence. “It is
really quite remarkable that Kluger could not even wait to
graduate from law school before using his employment at a  law
firm  to initiate his illegal activities.”  Last week, an appeals court in New York upheld the 10-year
prison term handed down to ex-Galleon Group LLC trader Zvi Goffer for trading on tips from lawyers. Galleon Group co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam , sentenced to 11 years after his 2011
conviction for leading an insider-trading ring, lost his bid for
a new trial last month.  Alan Zegas , Kluger’s lawyer, said he was “disappointed
with the result.” U.S. Attorney Paul Fishman in  New Jersey , who
prosecuted the case, said in a statement that “a severe penalty
was appropriate for one of the longest-running insider-trading
schemes ever.”  Skadden Arps  Kluger, 52, pleaded guilty in December 2011, admitting he
stole data on about 30 transactions while at law firms including
Wilson Sonsini and Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP.
Companies included Sun Microsystems Inc. and 3Com Corp.  He passed tips to middleman  Kenneth Robinson , who gave them
to trader Garrett Bauer. Both men also pleaded guilty. Bauer got
nine years, a prison term earlier upheld, and Robinson, who
cooperated with prosecutors, was sentenced to 27 months.  Federal prosecutors in New Jersey said Bauer made about
$32 million. Kluger, mistakenly believing the three men were
splitting profits equally, earned less than $1 million, Zegas
has previously said.  Kluger, of Oakton, Virginia, is the son of Richard Kluger,
a Pulitzer Prize-winning social historian. Mathew Kluger is
jailed at a federal prison in Butner, North Carolina.  The case is U.S. v. Kluger, 12-2701, U.S. Court of Appeals,
Third Circuit (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in  New York  at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  