-- Korean Gambler Wins Appeal in U.S. Slot-Machine Tax Case
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-07-09T19:46:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/korean-gambler-wins-appeal-in-u-s-slot-machine-tax-case.html
A South Korean businessman who lost
thousands of dollars in a California casino shouldn’t be taxed
for each winning pull of a slot-machine lever, a U.S. appeals
court found.  Sang J. Park, who visited the casino while on vacation, can
calculate taxes based on the outcome of sessions of gambling
rather than on individual bets, the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in
 Washington  said today, ruling against the U.S. Internal Revenue
Service and reversing a Tax Court decision.  The IRS lets U.S. citizens calculate their taxes based on
net winnings over the course of a gambling session. The appeals
court said the same reasoning could apply to nonresident foreign
gamblers.  “After a night of gambling, it’s no fun to walk out of the
casino a loser,” the court said in its opinion. “But it’s even
worse when the IRS, on your way out, tries to tax you on each
individual bet that you happened to win over the course of your
losing night.”  Park, an executive at a chemical company, visited the
Pechanga Resort & Casino near  San Diego  in 2006 and 2007, his
lawyer said in a brief filed in October 2012.  While Park made $431,658 in 2006 and $103,874 in 2007 in
winning slot-machine jackpots, over the full course of his
excursions he was a net loser of $4,663 in one year and $45,130
in the other, according to the filing.  Foreign gamblers in the U.S. are subject to a 30 percent
tax on slot-machine winnings of $1,200 or more, according to
court filings. The IRS argued that the  tax code  doesn’t allow
foreign gamblers to deduct losses from winnings.  ‘Non Sequitur’  The appeals court called that argument “a non sequitur.”  “The fact that non-resident aliens may not deduct gambling
losses from gambling winnings does not tell us how to measure
those losses and winnings in the first place,” the court said.  Denis McDevitt, a lawyer for Park, said the ruling may put
foreign gamblers in the U.S. “on a more even basis” with
citizens.  Typically, U.S. casinos withhold 30 percent of slot
jackpots from foreign nationals and won’t let them attempt to
recover that money if they wind up net losers, McDevitt said.
The casino Park attended failed to withhold from him, sparking a
tax bill from the IRS, he said.  “We were actually afforded an opportunity to challenge the
law, which usually doesn’t come up,” McDevitt said. “Now, the
foreigners will be allowed to file amended tax returns and claim
refunds of the tax they’ve already paid.”  Grant Williams , a spokesman for the IRS, declined to
comment on the decision.  The case is Park v. Commissioner of IRS, 12-1058, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn federal court at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  