-- Koruna Strengthens as Data Damps Intervention Case: Prague Mover
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2013-07-09T12:06:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/koruna-strengthens-as-data-damps-intervention-case-prague-mover.html
The Czech koruna appreciated to the
highest level in almost three weeks as quickening inflation
damped the case for the central bank to sell the currency.  The koruna advanced as much as 0.9 percent to 25.760 per
euro, its strongest intraday level since June 20, and traded 0.5
percent up to 25.869 by 1:12 p.m. in  Prague . It was 5.1 percent
weaker than on Sept. 17, a day before the central bank first
signaled readiness to intervene in the  currency market  to avoid
undershooting its 1 percent to 3 percent inflation target band.  Consumer prices increased 1.6 percent in June from a year
earlier, the statistics office in Prague said. That exceeded the
1.3 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of analysts,
predicting no change over the previous month, and the Czech
National Bank’s 1.4 percent forecast.  “The likely elevated inflation rate significantly reduces
the probability of koruna sales,” Nicolaie Alexandru-Chidesciuc, a London-based analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
wrote in a report to clients today. “Deflation risks are low
and real economic activity is showing signs of recovery.”  Data last week showed Czech retail sales unexpectedly rose
in May as the economy was recovering from its longest recession
on record. Gross domestic product contracted for six quarters
through March, prompting the CNB to cut its main  interest rate 
three times last year to 0.05 percent and debate koruna sales.  The rate-setting board remains split on the need to step
into the market, minutes from the June 27 meeting published
yesterday show. Several members called for an immediate
intervention while others said “a necessary condition for
commencing interventions was a risk of sustained deflation,
which was not materialising,” according to the minutes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at   wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  