-- N.Z. Company Optimism, Card Spending Add to Rate Rise Pressure
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-07-09T01:49:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/n-z-company-optimism-card-spending-add-to-rate-rise-pressure.html
New Zealand  business optimism neared
a four-year high and consumer spending rose at almost twice the
pace economists forecast, adding to signs the central bank may
be forced to raise  interest rates  sooner than it has signaled.  A  net 32 percent  of firms surveyed last quarter expect the
economy to improve in the next six months, the most since the
third quarter of 2009, the New Zealand Institute of Economic
Research Inc. said today.  Spending on credit and debit cards  in
June rose 1.1 percent, compared to the 0.6 percent increase
predicted in a Bloomberg News survey of eight economists,
 Statistics New Zealand  reported.  Strengthening economic growth and a surging housing market
put pressure on Reserve Bank of New Zealand Governor Graeme Wheeler to raise interest rates from a record-low 2.5 percent
after he signaled last month no change until mid-2014. The
central bank is reluctant to raise borrowing costs because that
may re-ignite demand for the nation’s currency and curb returns
from exports, which make up about 30 percent of the economy.  “The market has become increasingly of the view that rate
hikes are coming sooner than the  Reserve Bank  had published,”
said Doug Steel, economist at Bank of New Zealand Ltd. in
Wellington. “It’s a question of will the Reserve Bank change
its views toward what’s been priced in, or not.”  There is about an 85 percent chance of a rate rise by
March, up from 80 percent on July 1, according to swaps data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Prudential Tools  Wheeler on June 13 said he didn’t expect to raise borrowing
costs this year, and the same day the central bank published
projections for three-month bank bill yields that signal no rate
increase until the second half of 2014.  The central bank is readying new prudential tools to tackle
the housing market, preferring to limit bank lending rather than
attack demand by raising interest rates.  “We at the Reserve Bank see the current overheated housing
market as a real threat to future financial stability,” Deputy
Governor Grant Spencer said in a June 27 speech. Policy makers
are “well aware that any official cash rate increases at this
time would likely put unwanted pressure on the  exchange rate ,”
he said.  New Zealand’s dollar has dropped 8.6 percent the past three
months, the second worst performer after the Australian currency
among 10 developed-world currencies, as U.S. policy makers
signal they may reduce stimulus and after Wheeler said May 8 he
had intervened to sell the currency. It fell 0.2 percent to
77.82 U.S. cents at 1:15 p.m. in Wellington.  Thirteen of 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg in early
June, including Steel, expected a rate rise by March 31 as
economic growth picks up and stokes inflation.  RBNZ Forecasts  The RBNZ projected annual growth would accelerate to 3.6
percent by the second half of 2014 from a 2.4 percent pace in
the first quarter this year. Annual inflation is projected to
reach 1.9 percent by the end of 2014.  House prices  rose 7.6 percent in June from a year earlier,
the fastest annual pace since February 2008, according to a
report today from Quotable Value New Zealand, a property
research company. Prices in Auckland, home to a third of New
Zealand’s 4.4 million people, surged 13 percent.  Card spending was led higher by spending on fuel and
hospitality, the statistics agency said today. Excluding
spending on fuel and vehicles, spending rose 0.7 percent.  Businesses are starting to invest and hire as their outlook
for the economy improves, the Wellington-based NZIER said in its
quarterly report, based on a survey of 783 firms.  A net 18 percent expect their own sales and profits will
improve in the third quarter, and a net 9 percent plan to
increase hiring, the report showed. The net figures subtract
pessimists from optimists.  “We’re seeing momentum in the recovery,” Jean-Pierre de
Raad, chief executive of the NZIER, told reporters. “Businesses
optimism is translating into hiring and investment, which
supports that momentum.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  