-- Nations Should Take Stakes in Bailed-Out Banks: Lawmaker
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-07-09T15:05:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/nations-should-take-stakes-in-bailed-out-banks-lawmaker.html
European Union countries that bail
out banks should be forced to take equity stakes in them as a
way to recoup taxpayer investments, according to the European
Parliament’s lead lawmaker on bank-resolution plans.  Forcing countries to take an equity stake in firms they
support is one of the parliament’s main priorities as talks with
EU nations begin on bank resolution and recovery rules, said
Gunnar Hoekmark, the lawmaker in charge of work on the
legislation. Parliament also wants to provide more protection to
deposit-guarantee funds and remove numerical thresholds for the
types of losses imposed on investors.  Nations and EU lawmakers are negotiating the new rules as
part of a broader push toward a banking union that will put the
 European Central Bank  in charge of euro-area bank supervision.
 Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial-services chief, will release
plans tomorrow for a single resolution mechanism that will
complement the resolution rules for nations now under
discussion.  The new rules need to have flexibility without “gray
zones,” Hoekmark told reporters in Brussels today, saying he
hopes to reach a deal by year-end. He said the parliament will
seek to remove the requirement, eked out by nations over two
grueling meetings last month, that private-sector investors
absorb losses equal to 8 percent of a distressed bank’s
liabilities before nations can intervene.  Separate Funds  Hoekmark said nations need to have two separate funds for
protecting depositors and for covering the cost of bank
resolution. Countries also need strong powers for banks to pay
back the cost of government action, since standing resolution
funds and EU-wide resources won’t be big enough, he said.  For example, he said, the European Stability Mechanism only
has 60 billion euros ($76.8 billion) set aside for direct aid to
banks whose failure would threaten financial stability. “That
is what would be needed for Bankia, in  Spain , in one decision,”
Hoekmark said.  “If you are not to create a super-super-super fund, you
will always need  member states  to take the responsibility. Or
 Germany ,” he said. “And that’s why Schaeuble is very hesitant
toward this proposal tomorrow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  