-- Netanyahu Appoints Ron Dermer Israeli Ambassador to Washington
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-07-09T15:04:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/netanyahu-appoints-ron-dermer-israeli-ambassador-to-washington.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  has chosen American-born adviser Ron Dermer to succeed
 Michael Oren  as ambassador to the U.S., the prime minister’s
office said today in a text message.  “Ron Dermer has every attribute necessary to successfully
fill this important position,” Netanyahu said in the message.
“From our many years of acquaintance, I know that Ron will
loyally represent Israel in the capital of our greatest ally,
the U.S.”  Dermer, 42, was born and raised in Miami Beach, where both
his father and brother served as mayor. He immigrated to Israel
after earning a bachelor’s degree in finance and management from
the University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton School and a master’s
in philosophy, politics and economics from Oxford University,
the text message said.  Dermer worked as a political consultant for Soviet
dissident-turned Israeli politician Natan Sharansky and co-authored with him the best-selling “The Case for Democracy.”
In 2005, then-finance minister Netanyahu appointed him as
minister for economic affairs at the Washington embassy.  He has worked in the prime minister’s office for the past
four years, focusing on foreign policy and serving as a key
adviser on issues such as the Iranian nuclear program and the
peace process with the Palestinians.  Israel’s Army Radio said last month that some associates of
President  Barack Obama  were uncomfortable with the prospect of
Dermer’s appointment because they thought he had quietly
supported Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney . Before
moving to Israel, Dermer worked with  Frank Luntz , a pollster who
frequently advises Republican candidates and politicians.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  