-- Netflix CEO Raises Hackles With Earnings Videocast Plans
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2013-07-09T20:07:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/netflix-ceo-raises-hackles-with-earnings-videocast-plans.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  Chief Executive Officer
 Reed Hastings , who drew regulatory scrutiny with a Facebook post
on usage gains, is raising hackles again with plans for a
moderated videocast instead of a quarterly earnings call.  Hastings and Chief Financial Officer  David Wells  will
discuss second-quarter results from the company’s website after
markets close on July 22 with  Richard Greenfield , an analyst at
BTIG LLC, and Julia Boorstin, a reporter for CNBC, Los Gatos,
California-based Netflix said yesterday in a statement. They’ll
choose from questions submitted in advance.  “What we’re doing is taking advantage of technology and
putting it together with moderators we think will lead a lively
Q&A,” Jonathan Friedland, a Netflix spokesman, said in an
interview. “Our desire is to make this more informative, more
interesting and more valuable.”  The change may invite scrutiny because it “raises the
appearance that a sell-side analyst and a reporter will gain
access to financial information ahead of others,” said  Michael Pachter , an analyst with Wedbush Securities in Los Angeles who
has a sell rating on Netflix shares.  “I’m not going to submit my questions in advance to a
competitor or member of the press and let them screen them to
determine whether they should be aired,” Pachter said in an
interview. “I know this is Reed being progressive and trying to
trail-blaze, but I think this is going to stifle the
conversation instead of making it more dynamic.”  Buffett Model  Netflix is modeling the video chat based on the format for
annual meetings at  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , where analysts and
journalists pose questions to Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer  Warren Buffett , Friedland said.  The company asked four people to host, two journalists and
two analysts, according to Friedland. One person declined,
citing company policy, and another was unavailable, he said. The
moderators will incorporate as many questions as time permits,
according to Netflix.  “Does Netflix want to put on an entertaining reality show
or hold an earnings call?”  Erik Gordon , director of the Zell
Entrepreneurship and Law Program at the  University of Michigan ,
asked in an e-mail. “Alienating analysts in order to entertain
sightseers may not be Reed’s best idea.”  Greenfield, who  recommends  buying Netflix shares, has said
the company is poised to grow significantly, thanks to its
strategy of financing original programming. Boorstin has
interviewed Hastings several times for CNBC.  ‘No Ducking’  The format will require Netflix executives to take follow-up questions on sensitive subjects and will let viewers see
their expressions, Greenfield said today.  “There’s no avoiding or ducking,” Greenfield said. “This
should work toward the investors’ benefit because it seems very
forward-thinking.”  Boorstin declined to comment in an e-mail.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in April said
Hastings and Netflix wouldn’t face sanctions for announcing
total monthly viewing hours on his Facebook page even though the
company didn’t report the information in a public filing.  Companies can use social media outlets such as Facebook
Inc. and Twitter Inc. to announce key information so long as
investors have been told where to look, the agency said.  Netflix rose 6.1 percent to $247.38 at the close in New
York. The stock has more than doubled this year and is the top
performer in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  for 2013.  “Having an analyst play a central role in the
dissemination of an earnings release is highly unusual,” said
 Paul Sweeney , media analyst for Bloomberg Industries. “It is a
great opportunity for Rich, who is an excellent analyst, but it
suggests that he is receiving preferential treatment relative to
other sell-side analysts and investors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  