-- News Flash: Obamacare Haters Hate Obamacare
-- B y   C a s s   R .   S u n s t e i n
-- 2013-07-09T22:00:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/news-flash-obamacare-haters-hate-obamacare.html
Edwin Durning-Lawrence was a writer
and a member of the U.K. Parliament who devoted much of his life
to an obsessive, and slightly crazy, effort to demonstrate that
Francis Bacon wrote the works usually attributed to  William Shakespeare . Durning-Lawrence published his defining book,
“Bacon is Shakespeare,” in 1910. (My real topic is 21st-century
politics, but bear with me for a moment.)  Bacon, a contemporary of Shakespeare’s, was an influential
philosopher who also served as a member of Parliament. Durning-Lawrence greatly admired Bacon, but he didn’t much like
Shakespeare, whom he  described  as an illiterate and, more
specifically, as “the mean, drunken, ignorant, and absolutely
unlettered, rustic of Stratford who never in his life wrote so
much as his own name and in all probability was totally unable
to read one single line of print.”  In “Bacon Is Shakespeare,” Durning-Lawrence  labored  to show
that all available evidence supports the thesis of the book’s
title. A famous engraving of Shakespeare actually provides clues
that Shakespeare wasn’t an author at all; Shakespeare’s alleged
signatures are actually forgeries. All proof of Shakespeare’s
authorship turns out to establish exactly the opposite, Durning-Lawrence wrote.  In his closing chapters, Durning-Lawrence gets pretty wound
up. Chapter 9 ends: “The hour has come when it is desirable and
necessary to state with the utmost distinctness that BACON IS
SHAKESPEARE.” The  conclusion  of Chapter 10: “It is not possible
that any doubt can any longer be entertained respecting the
manifest fact that BACON IS SHAKESPEARE.”  Exposing Shakespeare  Chapter 11’s final words, on two volumes by Bacon and
Shakespeare respectively: “These two title pages were prepared
with consummate skill in order to reveal to the world, when the
time was ripe, that BACON IS SHAKESPEARE.”  Durning-Lawrence’s  appendix  collects the names of famous
people who appeared to agree with his thesis. Enlisting the
rhetorical strategy now known as “social proof,” Durning-Lawrence concludes: “The names that we have mentioned are amply
sufficient to prove to the reader that he will be in excellent
company when he himself realizes the truth that BACON IS
SHAKESPEARE.”  Despite his obsessiveness, Durning-Lawrence was an
intelligent and accomplished person. His inadvertently hilarious
book is an extreme case of a far more general (and much less
hilarious) phenomenon through which people don’t evaluate
evidence on its merits, but instead enlist it opportunistically
in support of their preordained conclusions. Social scientists
 describe  the phenomenon as “confirmation bias.”  This brings us to contemporary politics. Last week, the
Obama administration announced that it would postpone until 2015
enforcement of the  Affordable Care Act ’s so-called employer
mandate, which will require employers with more than 50
employees to provide health insurance or face significant
financial penalties.  Emphasizing that the underlying reporting requirements are
unusually complicated, the administration  said  that a one-year
delay would allow the government to try to simplify those
requirements while creating more flexibility for the private
sector.  The vast majority of large employers already provide health
insurance, and a one-year delay is unlikely to have significant
adverse effects on workers. The administration’s  effort  to
postpone and simplify reporting requirements is in line with
recent steps to eliminate redundancy and streamline paperwork
burdens, including those placed on the health-care system.  Preordained Conclusions  To the  critics  of the health-care law, however, the real
lesson of the announcement is clear: OBAMACARE IS A DEBACLE. And
to those critics, that is the real lesson of essentially every
development in health-care reform.  If governors decline to establish state exchanges, leaving
that task to the federal government, then Obamacare is a
debacle. If the administration releases a complex application
form for the coming exchanges, then Obamacare is a debacle (even
if the application is just a draft). If states opt out of the
Medicaid expansion, then Obamacare is a debacle.  No one should doubt that the  implementation  of the health-care law is creating serious challenges. Reasonable people have
objections and concerns. But as with Durning-Lawrence, so with
many of Obamacare’s critics, whose conclusions are motivated and
preordained.  The same phenomenon can be found among people with diverse
political views; it is hardly limited to those on the right.
When public officials reduce regulatory costs imposed on the
private sector, or decline to issue environmental or other
regulations, left-wing critics often conclude that BUSINESS
INTERESTS CONTROL GOVERNMENT. This is so even if the regulatory
costs are likely to hurt workers and consumers, not merely some
abstraction called “business.”  Francis Bacon , who wasn’t Shakespeare, said it well: “They
who have presumed to dogmatize on Nature, as on some well-investigated subject ... have inflicted the greatest injury on
philosophy and learning. For they have tended to stifle and
interrupt inquiry exactly in proportion as they have prevailed
in bringing others to their opinion.”  Shakespeare said it better: “Ignorance is the curse of God,
knowledge the wing wherewith we fly to heaven.”  (Cass R. Sunstein, the Robert Walmsley University professor
at  Harvard Law School , is a Bloomberg View  columnist . He is the
former administrator of the White House Office of Information
and Regulatory Affairs, the co-author of “Nudge” and author of
“Simpler: The Future of Government.”)  To contact the writer of this article:
Cass R. Sunstein at  csunstei@law.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 