-- NFL’s Giants, Jets Sued by Meadowlands Mall Developer
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-07-10T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/nfl-s-giants-jets-sued-by-meadowlands-mall-developer-in-n-j-.html
The  New York  Jets and  New York
Giants  were accused in a lawsuit by developers of the American
Dream retail and entertainment center of obstructing plans to
finish their project at New Jersey’s Meadowlands Sports complex.  The Bergen County, New Jersey, Superior Court complaint
filed yesterday follows a lawsuit filed by the football teams
against the development companies. A copy of the new complaint
was provided by a publicist for plaintiffs Ameream LLC and
Ameream Developer LLC. The filing couldn’t immediately be
confirmed in court records.  “The teams appear bent on crippling and destroying the
project” to perpetuate their “virtual monopoly status” at the
complex and sole use of the roadway, rail, parking and other
infrastructure improvements around it, the developers said in
the complaint.  The Giants, the Jets and the companies that built their
shared MetLife Stadium reneged on a cooperation agreement the
developers are relying on to add an amusement park and water
park, according to the complaint.  Accusing the teams of intentional and malicious conduct,
the developers seek unspecified compensatory and punitive
damages as well as the court’s finding, in part, that the teams’
rights regarding the project are limited to Sunday National
Football League game days.  ‘Unfortunate’ Filing  In a joint statement, the Jets and Giants called
yesterday’s filing “unfortunate.”  “The teams invested more than $1.6 billion in, and
committed their future to, the State of  New Jersey  in reliance
on the protections set forth in their contract with the state,”
they said, referring to their investment in their stadium, which
opened in 2010.  In their May 30 complaint, the football franchises said the
developers and the  New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority ,
the state agency overseeing the site, breached the 2006
cooperation agreement and accused the developers of interfering
with that pact.  The developers yesterday said they filed a separate court
document seeking dismissal of that suit. That filing couldn’t be
independently confirmed in court records.  “We will vigorously pursue this action to enforce the
state’s express promises to the teams and protect the rights of
our fans,” the Giants and Jets said.  The teams’ case is New Meadowlands Stadium Co. v. Triple
Five Group Ltd., BER-C-156-13, Bergen County, New Jersey,
Superior Court,  Chancery Division . The developers’ case is
Ameream LLC v. New York Football Giants Inc., Bergen County, New
Jersey, Superior Court, Law Division (Hackensack).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  