-- Loans for Ladas Pushed as Medvedev Revs Car Sales: Russia Credit
-- B y   A n a t o l y   T e m k i n
-- 2013-07-10T08:30:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/loans-for-ladas-pushed-as-medvedev-revs-car-sales-russia-credit.html
Russia’s two biggest banks are
betting a resumption of subsidies for the automotive industry
will return car sales to growth, bolstering lending.  Car loans will increase 13 percent this year amid
government help for consumers, the retail arm of VTB Group,  the
nation’s second-biggest bank, said last week in an e-mailed
response to questions. The program will support demand for
credit,  OAO Sberbank (SBER) , the largest lender, said by e-mail.
Financing through car loans and leasing contracts increased 4
percent last year in  Germany , according to car-lending
association AKA’s website.  The banks are counting on a resumption of state incentives
to revive auto sales, after they slumped for the fourth straight
month in June, amid the slowest economic growth since 2009. Car
loans are more profitable than corporate lending, with a net
margin as much as 18 percent, compared with 5 percent for
companies, said Nadezhda Bozhenko at UralSib Financial Corp.  “The government is trying to boost demand for automobiles
and producers,” Rinat Kirdan, head of fixed-income research at
Aton LLC in Moscow, said in a phone interview on July 4. “The
measure will help in the short term, but as soon as the
subsidies end, the market will decline.”  Government Support  Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev ’s government plans to start
supporting sales of budget vehicles this month, Yuri Koritsky,
an Industry and Trade Ministry spokesman, said by phone from
Moscow on July 4. The program will help sell as many as 250,000
additional cars in the period, Industry Minister Denis Manturov
said on state television on June 21.  The nation began assistance for the automotive industry in
2010, with a rebate program to encourage Russians to buy
domestically made cars to replace old models. Sales of new cars
and light vehicles rose 30 percent in 2010, 39 percent the
following year and 11 percent in 2012 to 2.94 million units,
according to the Association of European Business. Sales
decreased by 11 percent in June, the group, which expects a
decline of 5 percent for 2013, said on July 8.  Under the plan, the banks will be able to provide
subsidized loans for customers buying cars priced as high as
700,000 rubles ($21,200) until the end of 2014, according to the
Industry Ministry. A  Lada Granta  starts at 279,000 rubles,
according to the website of OAO AvtoVAZ, Russia’s biggest
automaker. A Ford Focus retails from 542,00 rubles, the  Ford
Motor Co. (F)   website  in Russian shows.  Bank Plans  Russia’s car loan market expanded 20 percent to $26.1
billion in 2012, according to an Ernst & Young LLP  report .
State-controlled Sberbank and VTB hold more than half of the
market, data of Russian research company Avtostat show.  VTB24 plans to increase its share of the auto-loan market,
Chief Executive Officer Mikhail Zadornov, said in an interview
in St. Petersburg in June. The bank increased the number of car
loans it gave out by 32 percent in the first five months to
65,000, VTB24’s press-service said in response to questions by
e-mail. VTB raised $275 million by securitizing car loans in
August 2012, the bank said at the time.  Sberbank provided 62,728 auto loans valued at 30.1 billion
rubles in the first five months, a drop of 8 percent from the
same period in 2012, the bank’s press service said by e-mail.
The lender aims to increase market share by year-end, it said,
without specifying what it is now.  “The question now is whether the market can do better in
the second half of the year,” Joerg Schreiber, chairman of the
AEB Automobile Manufacturers Committee, said in the July 8
statement. “The chances for that have increased with the
announcement of government plans to subsidize credit-backed
vehicle purchases. We hope these plans will be implemented
quickly, for the expected positive effect to be felt in the
coming months.”  Sovereign Yields  Russia  is rated Baa1 at Moody’s Investors Service, the
third-lowest investment-grade category. The yield on Russia’s
dollar bond maturing in March 2030 fell two basis points to 4.21
percent as of 12:30 p.m. in Moscow. The extra yield investors
demand to hold Russia’s debt rather than U.S. Treasuries was
unchanged at 234, compared with 213 for debt of  Mexico ,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes.  While car loans account for less than 10 percent of the
portfolios of Russia’s biggest banks, the margins are
attractive, UralSib’s Bozhenko said.  “Lending for buying new cars is a small but profitable
bank business,” she said by phone from Moscow on July 4. “So
it makes sense for banks to develop it for additional
proceeds.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anatoly Temkin in  St. Petersburg  at 
 atemkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  