-- Obama Should Show Karzai ‘Superpowers Don’t Bluff’
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-07-09T22:12:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/obama-should-show-karzai-superpowers-don-t-bluff-.html
In November 1963, when South
 Vietnam ’s first president, Ngo Dinh Diem, was going off the
reservation and alienating his U.S. patrons, a group of South
Vietnamese generals helpfully staged a  coup  and assassinated
him.  Fast-forward a half-century to Afghanistan, where members
of President  Barack Obama ’s administration can (thankfully) only
splutter, sotto voce, to the  New York  Times that frustrations
with President Hamid Karzai’s government are driving the U.S. to
consider speeding up the complete withdrawal of troops -- a so-called zero option.  Let’s face it: A pullout of all U.S. troops from
Afghanistan by the end of 2014 is undesirable. Current  plans  to
keep 8,000 to 12,000 mostly U.S. troops in Afghanistan to train
and support Afghan troops, and an unspecified number in a
counterterrorist role, will make it easier to advance the one
abiding U.S. interest: to prevent the use of Afghanistan as a
base for terrorist attacks against the U.S. and its allies. And
any discussion of a withdrawal of U.S. forces raises serious
questions about the continuation of U.S. civilian economic
assistance.  Obama’s threat, however, also provides an opportunity to
inject some much-needed realism into discussions of
 Afghanistan ’s future. Consider the status quo: Next fiscal year,
the U.S. and its allies will provide more than $10 billion in
aid to Afghanistan, including $7.7 billion for the Afghan
National Security Forces. Afghanistan won’t be able to support
this planned force of 352,000 on its own for years, if not
decades -- its total government revenue in 2011 was less than $2
billion. And that’s not even considering the other needs facing
one of the world’s least-developed nations.  The best way to reduce the crippling long-term burden of an
outsize military on Afghanistan is to encourage a political
settlement between the Afghan government and its enemies. Yet
U.S. efforts to do that by reaching out to the Taliban are what
led to the current, and particularly intense, impasse in U.S.-
Afghan relations. Fearing that the U.S. was working to conclude
a separate peace, Karzai repudiated its overtures to the Taliban
and ended talks on a deal to keep U.S. troops in Afghanistan
after 2014.  Meanwhile, the Afghan government under Karzai is sinking
deeper into a morass of corruption and waste. A United Nations
 report  released in February noted that Afghan citizens had paid
$3.9 billion in bribes in 2012, and that the frequency and cost
of bribes had both increased since 2009. The  U.S. Special
Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction  has identified
myriad ways in which the Afghan government is misappropriating
or exploiting U.S. assistance -- for instance, almost  $1 billion 
in penalties and taxes on aid contractors. Is this really the
kind of government that the U.S. wants, or can afford, to
provide billions of dollars in support?  Not over the long term, certainly. In fact, we hope that
the Obama administration is serious about its post-2014
withdrawal threat and that, as Deputy National Security Adviser
Tony Blinken has  said  in another context, “superpowers don’t
bluff.” Karzai needs to know that the U.S. is unwilling to keep
writing blank checks to Afghanistan at the expense of its vital
strategic interests elsewhere. In this case, the administration
may have to show that the U.S. is willing to abandon the village
in order to save it.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 