-- Moelis Said to Plan $35 Million Staff, Investor Payouts
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2013-07-09T16:19:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/moelis-said-to-plan-35-million-in-payouts-to-staff-investors.html
Moelis & Co., the advisory firm
founded by  Kenneth Moelis , told its bankers it will distribute
$35 million to investors and employees with a stake in the
company, a person with direct knowledge of the matter said.  The money will be disbursed this month and recipients will
include managing directors, partners and other employees, said
the person, who requested anonymity because the decision wasn’t
announced publicly. It will be the first cash distribution for
New York-based Moelis, according to the Financial Times, which
reported on the payouts yesterday.  The closely held firm has been winning more business.
Moelis ranks 11th by market share this year among companies
advising on mergers and acquisitions, rising from 24th in 2012,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. It advised  Life Technologies
Corp. (LIFE)  on a strategic review that led to a sale and HJ Heinz Co.
on its buyout by Warren Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  and
Jorge Paulo Lemann’s 3G Capital.  The move helps reward Moelis employees, whose holdings in
the firm aren’t publicly traded. Bankers at competitors
including  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  are able to profit from their
public holdings. Evercore, founded by former U.S. Deputy
Treasury Secretary  Roger Altman  and run by Ralph Schlosstein,
has surged 33 percent this year.  Moelis, which employs about 600 people, dismissed about 20
bankers in New York and London last month as part of a business
review, people with knowledge of the matter said at the time.  European Crisis  Kenneth Moelis, 54, who opened the firm in 2007 after
resigning as president of UBS AG’s investment bank, said in 2011
that he planned to hire executives from Wall Street firms
grappling with investor concerns that the European sovereign-debt crisis would deepen.  In January 2012, he announced plans by  Sumitomo Mitsui
Financial Group Inc. (8316)  to invest $93 million in his company,
building on an alliance with the Tokyo-based bank, a Sumitomo
spokesman said at the time. The stake amounted to about 5
percent of the U.S. firm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  