-- Top Forecaster Barclays Sees Risk to Lira Outlook: Turkey Credit
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-07-09T08:06:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/top-forecaster-barclays-sees-risk-to-lira-outlook-turkey-credit.html
The top forecaster for the Turkish
lira says his prediction for the currency to strengthen by year-end risks being undermined by the country’s external funding
needs even as the central bank provides support.  The lira will rise 3 percent to 1.89 per dollar by the end
of the third quarter, with the currency at 1.90 by Dec. 31, Koon Chow, an emerging-market strategist in  London  at Barclays Plc,
the most accurate forecaster for the past two quarters, said
yesterday in an interview by phone. Should the exchange rate
stabilize, bond yields, among the highest in developing nations,
may fall, he said.  Policy makers will keep liquidity tight and possibly adjust
interest rates, moves that will “provide some support for the
lira,” Chow said. “But there’s rising risk to our forecasts.
This is because Turkey has one of the largest external funding
needs among the major emerging-market economies.”  Turkey sold a record $2.25 billion of foreign exchange
yesterday, bringing the over four weeks to $4.9 billion to prop
up the currency as better-than-estimated U.S. jobs data last
week fueled speculation the Federal Reserve will scale back
stimulus.  Turkey ’s current-account  deficit  swelled to the most
in two years in April after economic growth accelerated more
than economists forecast in the first quarter.  Record Low  The lira weakened as much as 0.3 percent yesterday to a
record 1.9740 per dollar before the central bank stepped in. The
currency then rebounded, appreciating 1.1 percent yesterday. It
gained 0.3 percent to 1.9398 at 10:26 a.m. in Istanbul today.  Turkey’s currency will probably weaken to 2.06 per dollar
by the end of 2013, according to X-Trade Broker Dom Maklerski
SA, the third best lira forecaster in the 12 months through
June. That compares with median forecasts of 1.88 for the third
quarter and 1.89 for the fourth in a Bloomberg survey.  “All of emerging-market currencies including the Turkish
lira will depreciate this year,” Przemyslaw Kwiecien, chief
economist at X-Trade Brokers in Warsaw, said by phone yesterday,
citing Fed policy. “You cannot fight the global tendencies. Of
course you can try, but from my experience it’s not working.”  The  yield  on two-year lira notes jumped 47 basis points to
8.26 percent yesterday, erasing its declines in the past 12
months. The yield climbed 347 basis points, or 3.47 percentage
points, from a record-low close on May 17 as the Fed signaled it
may trim bond purchases and anti-government protests broke out
on May 31. It was little changed at 8.27 percent today.  ‘Sacrifice Rates’  “Liquidity tightening and foreign-exchange auctions
indicate that the Turkish central bank would rather sacrifice
rates volatility in order to maintain currency stability,”
Siddharth Kapoor, a London-based strategist at Deutsche Bank AG
said by e-mail yesterday.  Turkey’s current-account deficit widened to $8.17 billion
in April from $4.55 billion a year earlier, the statistics
office said June 11, the same day the central bank held its
first foreign-exchange auction since January 2012. The  economy 
expanded 3 percent in the first three months, up from 1.4
percent the previous quarter and more than the 2.3 percent
predicted in a Bloomberg survey of economists, a separate report
showed that day.  Ukraine and Turkey are among the most vulnerable to an
external-funding shortfall in  emerging markets , according to a
report published by Standard & Poor’s last week.  Deficit Outlook  Turkey’s current-account gap reached a record $77 billion
two years ago, or about 10 percent of gross domestic product.
The deficit will probably reach 6.8 percent of GDP this year,
from 6.03 percent in 2012, according to the median of 23
estimates in a Bloomberg survey of economists.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Turkey’s dollar
bonds rather than Treasuries fell one basis point, to 247 today,
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified index showed.  “The most important thing for the bond market is the
exchange rate stabilizing,” said Chow at Barclays. “If the
lira exchange rate stabilizes, yields can come down.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  