-- Toronto Floods As Most Rain Since ‘37 Knocks Out Power
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-07-09T17:13:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/toronto-floods-as-most-rain-since-37-knocks-out-power.html
Thousands of Toronto residents
remained without power and flooded train tracks, power stations
and roadways delayed commuters after the city recorded the
heaviest one-day rainfall in at least seven decades.  The overnight storm brought nearly 100 millimeters (3.9
inches) of rain to the city center and 126 millimeters to
Toronto’s Pearson  airport , according to Environment  Canada . It
knocked out power to 300,000 residents, and 20,000 people
remained without electricity in the city’s west end this
morning, according to Toronto Hydro.  “It now represents the single rainiest day ever at the
airport since records began back in 1937,” Peter Kimbell, a
meteorologist with Environment Canada, said by phone from
Ottawa. “We had one area of thunderstorms moving southward and
another area of thunderstorms moving eastward, and they
basically merged over Toronto, and the combination was
particularly intense.”  GO Transit, the city’s commuter train service,  advised 
customers to seek alternatives for their morning commute as
flooding of tracks in Richmond Hill and along Lake Shore
Boulevard caused delays, said spokeswoman Vanessa Thomas.  A northbound Go Transit train in east Toronto’s Don Valley
was trapped after flooding washed out the tracks, stranding
passengers inside while rising water poured into the carriages.  ‘Rising Water’  One of those stranded in the train, Thornhill resident
Angela Sarino, recalled today in a phone interview how she
watched as vehicles on a nearby road became submerged, with
commuters getting anxious during the ordeal.  “As the water was rising and coming into the train, that’s
when you start to think this is pretty serious,” the 40-year-old  Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce  employee said. “You see
this water rising and it’s rising very fast. To sit there and
within half an hour see a car completely submerged, you’re
thinking ‘is this rain ever going to stop?’”  Authorities used Zodiac inflatable boats to help evacuate
the commuters from the powerless, flooded train in an operation
that ended in the early morning.  “I know that there were a lot of emergencies last night,
but it was pretty disheartening to know you’re about 1,500
people on the train and you had two Zodiacs that were out there
helping us,” said Sarino, who got home around 1 a.m.  Most city roadways are open this morning after flooding
caused closures last night.  Subway Service  Subway service between Kipling and Jane stations on the
Bloor-Danforth line was still suspended as crews worked to drain
a flooded substation and return power to that section of track.
The 505 streetcar along King Street, which shuttles 56,000
commuters each day and is the city’s busiest, was diverted along
Queen and Shaw streets due to a flooded overpass at King and
Atlantic Avenue, according to Toronto Transit Commission
spokeswoman Jessica Martin.  Paul Yeung, senior manager at  Royal Bank of Canada , left
his downtown office yesterday at 5 p.m., was stuck in a train in
a tunnel for 55 minutes and didn’t arrive home until around 9:30
p.m. after having to walk part of the way.  “It was a pretty hairy ride home, but it could have been
worse,” Yeung, 39, said in a telephone interview. “On the
positive side I got to meet a couple really nice people.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Thorpe at 
 jthorpe23@bloomberg.net  