-- Osram Stock as UBS Sees Technology Shift Helping Earnings
-- B y   W e i x i n   Z h a
-- 2013-07-09T13:28:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/osram-stock-as-ubs-sees-technology-shift-helping-earnings.html
Osram Licht AG surged as much as 16
percent on the second day of trading as  analysts  at UBS AG said
the company’s lighting technology and a corporate reorganization
will boost earnings in years to come.  Osram  was trading up 15 percent  at 27.38 euros as of 3:26
p.m. in Frankfurt after rising to as high as 27.50 euros earlier
in the day. That more than made up for a 0.8 percent decline
yesterday, when the stock debuted after the manufacturer’s
spinoff from engineering company  Siemens AG. (SIE)  Volume was 33
percent of the initial day’s total. The manufacturer is valued
at about 2.86 billion euros ($3.68 billion).  Siemens separated from Osram as part of a drive to sell
units with low profitability or growth prospects. Osram Chief
Financial Officer Klaus Patzak said yesterday that the lighting
producer needs to complete a restructuring before considering
more acquisitions. The Munich-based company, which bought
fixtures specialist Siteco in 2011, will shut or sell six plants
in a drive to reach 1 billion euros in savings by 2015.  An industrywide shift to light-emitting diodes “offers
exciting opportunities to drive both growth and profitability
and, as the world’s second-largest lighting company, Osram is
well placed to benefit,” Fredric Stahl and Guillermo Peigneux,
Stockholm-based analysts at UBS, said today in a research
report.  The analysts recommended buying Osram shares and estimated
the stock price will reach 38 euros a share as “the key drivers
for a re-rating of the shares are likely to be a successful
restructuring and a return to growth in the second half of
calendar 2013,” they said.  Michael Hagmann, an analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc, gave an
overweight recommendation on Osram shares and estimated the
stock at 34 euros, saying the spinoff has given Osram management
“leeway in the restructuring process,” and that  company
margins have started to recover.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weixin Zha in  Frankfurt  at 
 wzha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  