-- Lloyd’s Says Taxes, Regulation Burden European Firms
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2013-07-10T08:12:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/lloyd-s-says-taxes-regulation-burden-european-firms.html
High taxation and new regulation are
among the most pressing concerns for senior European company
executives, according to a survey by Lloyd’s of  London .  The Lloyd’s Risk Index survey also found executives were
worried about losing customers and the availability of credit,
the world’s oldest insurance market said in a statement today.  “With business tax in the spotlight and rising up the
political agenda, executives are understandably concerned,”
Lloyd’s Chief Executive Officer Richard Ward said in the
statement. “The danger is that an emphasis on near-term,
operational issues comes at the expense of significant,
strategic decisions.”  The survey comes as the European Union plans to implement a
financial transaction tax as soon as next year, which could
raise 30 billion euros ($38.6 billion) to 35 billion euros
annually. The EU is also working through a wave of proposals to
toughen regulation of its financial-services industry in the
wake of the 2008 financial crisis.  Businesses are “more focused on short term issues,” Ward
said in a Bloomberg television interview with Anna Edwards,  Mark Barton  and Manus Cranny today. They are “concerned about the
stability of the tax regime they have to operate under. What we
all want in the business world is certainty.”  More than 30 draft laws have been presented by the European
Commission since 2009, including texts to rewrite the bloc’s
financial market rulebook and bank capital standards, according
to figures given by  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial-services
chief.  Lloyd’s surveyed 588 respondents across  Europe ,  North
America ,  Latin America  and Asia Pacific. More than three
quarters of the participants represented businesses with revenue
of as much as $499 million, Lloyd’s said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  