-- Pakistan Bin Laden Report Blames State Institutions, Officials
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2013-07-09T09:25:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/pakistan-bin-laden-report-blames-state-institutions-officials.html
Pakistan ’s judicial commission
investigating the presence and killing of  Osama bin Laden  held
responsible state institutions and officials who failed to
perform their duty, its chairman said.  “We have identified  institutions and individuals
responsible for this failure,” Javed Iqbal, the former judge
who headed the commission, said in live comments on GEO
television today. “We have not given any clean chit to
anybody.”  Pakistan’s former Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani  set up
the commission to probe the circumstances surrounding the May
2011 U.S. commando raid that killed bin Laden in Abbottabad, a
garrison town about 50 kilometers (30 miles) north of the
capital, Islamabad. The report blames politicians and the
military responsible for “gross incompetence,” leading to
“collective failures” that allowed bin Laden to escape
detection and the U.S. to perpetrate an “act of war,” Al
Jazeera  reported  on its website yesterday, citing the findings.  “They have diluted the responsibility among many
institutions and individuals and I don’t think you can make
anybody accountable on the basis of these findings,” Imtiaz Gul, executive director of the Center for Research and Security
Studies in Islamabad, said in a phone interview. “This isn’t
the priority of this government, nor there is any public
pressure to make people accountable.”  It’s the government’s responsibility to release the report,
Iqbal said. “We have finished it and submitted it to the
government in January.” Pervaiz Rasheed, Pakistan’s government
spokesman, didn’t reply to calls on his mobile phone.
The report remains confidential.  The 336-page report cites complete collapse of governance
and law enforcement for lack of intelligence on bin Laden’s
nine-year residence in Pakistan, and the country’s response to
the U.S. raid,  Al Jazeera  reported yesterday.  The failure to detect a CIA network seeking bin Laden was
“sustained dereliction of duty by the political, military and
intelligence leadership of the country,” the website said,
citing the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  