-- Pennsylvanians Sue to Overturn State's Gay-Marriage Ban
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2013-07-09T15:07:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/pennsylvanians-sue-to-overturn-state-s-gay-marriage-ban.html
A group of Pennsylvanians backed by
the  American Civil Liberties Union  sued Governor Thomas Corbett
seeking to remove the state’s ban on same-sex marriage.  The ACLU said today that 23 plaintiffs including Deb and
Susan Whitewood, a committed couple for 22 years, filed suit in
federal court in Harrisburg to invalidate Pennsylvania’s Defense
of Marriage Act, which defines marriage as a union between a man
and a woman. The filing couldn’t be immediately verified in
court records.  “This law cannot stand under any level of scrutiny because
excluding same-sex couples from marriage does not further any
legitimate government interest,” Mark Aronchick, a lawyer for
the plaintiffs, said in a statement from the ACLU. “It serves
only to insult and hurt lesbian and gay couples and their
families.”  The complaint follows the U.S. Supreme Court’s June 26
ruling striking down a law denying federal benefits to same-sex
married couples. Advocates are seeking to expand the number of
states where gay marriage is legal. Thirteen states and the
 District of Columbia  allow same-sex marriage.  Kevin Harley , a spokesman for Corbett, a Republican, didn’t
immediately return a phone call seeking comment on the suit.  Bills Proposed  A bill introduced by Pennsylvania state Senator Daylin Leach, a Democrat from Wayne, that would provide full marriage
rights for same-sex couples in the state was referred to a
committee in March and never had a hearing. The Senate recessed
last week and won’t return until September.  State Representative Brian Sims, the Philadelphia Democrat
who became the first openly gay member elected to the
Pennsylvania chamber last year, plans to introduce a similar
bill, said his district coordinator, Tim Keller, today.  The ACLU is seeking a ruling that  Pennsylvania ’s marriage
law is unconstitutional and an injunction against denying same-sex couples the right to marry.  The case is Whitewood v. Corbett, U.S. District Court,
Middle District of Pennsylvania (Harrisburg).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  