-- PetroChina Rallies as Chalco’s Premium Widens: Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-07-09T20:52:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/petrochina-rallies-as-chalco-s-premium-widens-overnight.html
Chinese equities rallied in  New York 
as  PetroChina (PTR)  Co. jumped after the nation raised natural gas
prices while Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. advanced on prospects
domestic demand will increase.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. gained 0.9 percent to a one-week high
of 85.1 yesterday. PetroChina, the nation’s biggest oil and gas
producer, rose to a one-month high, while Aluminum Corp., known
as Chalco, traded at the biggest  premium  over the  Hong Kong 
stock in two weeks.  Baidu Inc. (BIDU)  climbed, paring a decline this
month, as its benchmark dollar bonds soared.  China will raise non-residential gas prices by 15 percent
starting today. New York-based  Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest U.S.
aluminum producer, reported better-than-estimated earnings for
the second quarter and forecast demand in China will rise 11
percent this year, boosting the outlook for Chalco.  “The natural gas increase is significant as China has a
short supply because domestic prices are lower than import
costs,” Michael Ding, the lead manager of the  China Region Fund (USCOX) 
at U.S. Global Investors Inc., said by e-mail from  San Antonio ,
 Texas . “It dramatically improves PetroChina’s earnings and cash
flow, eliminating losses in selling and importing natural gas.”  The iShares China Large-Cap ETF, the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., added 0.5 percent to a one-week high of $32.36, climbing for a third day. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.7 percent in its fourth day of gains
amid optimism companies will report better-than-forecast
earnings.  Rating Upgrades  PetroChina’s American depositary receipts advanced 1.5
percent to $115.67, the highest price since June 4. ADRs of the
Beijing-based company have risen 12 percent after China’s
announcement of the price increase to natural gas on June 28.  At least four analysts boosted their  ratings  on
PetroChina’s Hong Kong-traded stock after the government
announced the increase to natural gas prices last month. Ten out
of 12 analysts who have updated their ratings this month
recommended buying the stock, while one maintained a rating at
the equivalent of hold, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Industrial usage accounts for more than 70 percent of
 China ’s natural gas demand, according to Ding at U.S. Global
Investors Inc. The price increase “will increase supplies in
China in the long term, benefiting PetroChina and oilfield
services companies.”  Chalco advanced 2.8 percent to $7.76, the biggest rally in
two weeks. Its ADRs traded 1.6 percent  above  the Hong Kong
shares, the highest premium since June 25. Each ADR represents
25 underlying shares in the Beijing-based company.  Global Demand  Alcoa  estimated  global demand for aluminum will exceed
supply by 315,000 tons this year in a presentation for its July
8 conference call. Aluminum stockpiles dropped for an 11th week
to the lowest level since September, according to data tallied
by the Shanghai Futures Exchange.  China’s customs is scheduled to release June trade data
today.  Exports (CNFREXPY)  probably rose 3.7 percent, according to the
median projection of 39 analysts compiled by Bloomberg. That
would compare with a 1 percent increase in May and last year’s
average monthly growth of 8.3 percent. The U.S. and China start
two days of strategic and economic talks today in  Washington .  Baidu, owner of China’s most-used online search engine,
climbed 2.4 percent to $92.69, the highest close in a week.  The price of the company’s 3.5 percent dollar bonds due in
November 2022 rose the most on record, driving the yield down 18
basis points, or 0.18 percentage point, to 4.88 percent.  Hollysys Automation Technologies Ltd. (HOLI) , a Beijing-based
maker of automation and control systems, advanced 2.6 percent to
$12.10, the biggest gain since June 25.  The company won a $5.47 million contract to provide the
signaling system for a high-speed rail line in northern China,
it said in a statement July 8.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  advanced 0.4 percent to
1,965.45, rebounding after the biggest slump in two weeks. The
Hang Seng China Enterprises Index in Hong Kong slipped 0.1
percent to 9,051.23 in a second day of retreat.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  