-- Pharmstandard Biggest Decliner on Offer Discount: Moscow Mover
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-07-09T09:31:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/pharmstandard-biggest-decliner-on-offer-discount-moscow-mover.html
OAO Pharmstandard,  Russia ’s biggest
pharmaceutical company, fell the most on the  benchmark index 
today and slumped the most in four years in London after
offering to buy out at a discount investors who oppose a planned
spinoff of its over-the-counter unit.  Shares slumped as much as 4.7 percent and traded down 4
percent at 2,141.10 rubles by 1:09 p.m. in Moscow. The volume of
trading was equivalent to about 3,509 percent of the three-month
average. Global depositary receipts fell 11 percent, the most
since June 2009 on a closing basis, to $17.85.  Pharmstandard will offer to buy out shareholders who don’t
vote for the planned spinoff of its over-the-counter unit for
2,180 rubles a share, equivalent to about $16.50 a GDR, at a 
Sept. 27 meeting, Pharmstandard said, citing a board decision in 
a regulatory filing yesterday after the Moscow market closed. 
That was a 2.3 percent  discount  to yesterday’s closing price in
Moscow, and 18 percent in  London .  “This is poor corporate governance practice, they’re just
trying to get rid of the shareholders on the cheap,” Ivan Kushch, an analyst at VTB Capital, said by phone. “This buyout
will affect most of the minority shareholders. And those
shareholders that don’t accept the buyout will be left with the
old Pharmstandard shares and a new unlisted and illiquid
asset.”  Buying Bever  Shares in the over-the-counter drug unit will be
distributed proportionally to Pharmstandard stockholders, the
Moscow-based company said in a separate statement yesterday,
citing the company’s board  decision . A conference call will be
held on July 10 to clarify details, Pharmstandard said.  The drugmaker also said yesterday that it plans to purchase
Bever Pharmaceutical Pte Ltd., based in  Singapore , for $630
million. Pharmstandard plans a shareholder meeting Aug. 17 to
vote on the purchase of Bever, a related-party transaction,
according to a separate regulatory filing.  The Russian company didn’t describe Bever in the filing.
Irina Bakhturina, an investor-relations executive for
Pharmstandard, declined to comment on the acquisition in a
telephone interview today.  Bever is owned by Andrey Osipov, according to company
records filed with Singapore’s Accounting and Corporate
Regulatory Authority. An Andrey Osipov worked at billionaire
 Roman Abramovich ’s Millhouse during the period Pharmstandard was
being formed, leaving in about 2004. Bakhturina said she
couldn’t immediately comment.  In 2003, Abramovich and Viktor Kharitonin, now
Pharmstandard’s chairman, bought Russian plants of ICN
Pharmaceuticals to create the company.  Pharmstandard’s GDRs started trading in London in 2007.
Abramovich and his partner Evgeny Shvidler sold a 17 percent
stake in the company to Kharitonin and board member Yegor Kulkov
the following year. Kharitonin and Kulkov’s Augment Investments
Ltd. holds 54 percent of the drugmaker, according to its
website. Kharitonin owns 38 percent of Pharmstandard, according
to Forbes’s billionaires list this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  