-- Pharmstandard Falls Most in 4 Years on Offer Price: Moscow Mover
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-07-09T15:40:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/pharmstandard-falls-most-in-4-years-on-offer-price-moscow-mover.html
OAO Pharmstandard,  Russia ’s biggest
pharmaceutical company, slumped the most in four years after
offering to buy out disgruntled investors at a discount.  The shares slumped 8.5 percent, the most since May 2009, to
2,042.30 rubles by the close in Moscow. The volume of trading
was equivalent to almost 41 times the three-month average. The
global depositary receipts dropped 18 percent to $16.50.  Pharmstandard will offer to buy out shareholders who don’t
vote for the planned spinoff of its over-the-counter unit for
2,180 rubles a share, equivalent to about $16.50 a GDR, at a
Sept. 27 meeting, Pharmstandard said, citing a board decision in
a regulatory filing yesterday after Moscow trading finished.
That was a  discount  of 2.3 percent to yesterday’s closing price
in Moscow and 18 percent to the  London  close.  “This is poor corporate governance practice, they’re just
trying to get rid of the shareholders on the cheap,” Ivan Kushch, an analyst at VTB Capital, said by phone from Moscow.
“This buyout will affect most of the minority shareholders. And
those shareholders that don’t accept the buyout will be left
with the old Pharmstandard shares and a new unlisted and
illiquid asset.”  Shares in the over-the-counter drug unit will be
distributed proportionally to Pharmstandard stockholders, the
Moscow-based company said in a separate statement yesterday,
citing a board  decision . Management will hold a conference call
tomorrow to clarify details, Pharmstandard said.  VTB Capital cut the stock to sell from hold, citing
“poor” corporate governance and visibility of the company’s
business following the restructuring, according to an e-mailed
note.  Buying Bever  The drugmaker also said yesterday that it plans to purchase
Bever Pharmaceutical Pte Ltd., based in  Singapore , for $630
million. Pharmstandard plans a shareholder meeting Aug. 17 to
vote on the purchase of Bever, a related-party transaction,
according to a separate regulatory filing.  “Pharmstandard doesn’t have the free cash to finance
Bever’s acquisition so the deal is likely to be financed by the
OTC unit’s sale,” Ksenia Arutyunova, an analyst at Rye, Man &
Gor Securities, said by phone in Moscow. Pharmstandard’s free
cash flow was at about $306 million at the end of last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Russian company didn’t describe Bever in the filing.
Irina Bakhturina, an investor-relations executive for
Pharmstandard, declined to comment on the acquisition in a
telephone interview today.  Roman Abramovich  Bever is owned by Andrey Osipov, according to company
records filed with Singapore’s Accounting and Corporate
Regulatory Authority. An executive by the same name worked at
billionaire  Roman Abramovich ’s Millhouse LLC during the period
Pharmstandard was being formed, leaving in about 2004.
Bakhturina declined to comment.  In 2003, Abramovich and Viktor Kharitonin, now
Pharmstandard’s chairman, bought the Russian plants of ICN
Pharmaceuticals to create the company.  Pharmstandard’s GDRs started trading in London in 2007.
Abramovich and his partner Evgeny Shvidler sold a 17 percent
stake in the company to Kharitonin and board member Yegor Kulkov
the following year. Kharitonin and Kulkov’s Augment Investments
Ltd. holds 54 percent of the company, according to the
drugmaker’s website. Kharitonin owns 38 percent of
Pharmstandard, according to Forbes’s billionaires list this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  