-- Planned Parenthood Wins Delay of Wisconsin Abortion Law
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-07-09T00:05:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/planned-parenthood-wins-delay-of-wisconsin-abortion-law.html
Planned Parenthood of  Wisconsin  Inc.
won a federal court order delaying enforcement of a new state
law requiring abortion providers to have hospital admission
privileges within 30 miles of their clinic.  U.S. District Judge William M. Conley in Madison, the
state’s capital, today issued a temporary order delaying
enforcement of the provision signed into by Governor Scott Walker on July 5.  The American Civil Liberties Union filed suit on behalf of
Planned Parenthood that day, asking the court to block the
measure they said was unconstitutional. The effective date of
the law was today.  “There is a troubling lack of justification for the
hospital admitting privileges requirement,” Conley said in an
19-page ruling, adding that U.S. Supreme Court precedent places
the burden upon states to show such laws are “reasonably
directed to the preservation of maternal health.”  Wisconsin is one of several states where legal battles are
taking place over newly introduced hospital-privilege
requirements for abortion providers.  Federal judges in Alabama and  Mississippi  have issued
orders stopping similar laws from being implemented after
finding that they might result in substantial burdens for women
seeking to terminate pregnancies.  Clinics Affected  Wisconsin’s law would force clinics in  Milwaukee  and
Appleton to close and cause Planned Parenthood to cut staff and
services at another clinic in Milwaukee, the state’s most-populous city according to the complaint.  Conley’s order preserves those clinics’ ability to perform
the procedure. A fourth clinic operates in Madison. He scheduled
a preliminary injunction hearing for July 17.  Dana Brueck, a spokeswoman for Wisconsin Attorney General
J.B. Van Hollen, declined to comment on the court’s decision.  “Politicians in Wisconsin and across the country need to
get the message that it is unlawful to arbitrarily prevent a
woman from making the best decision for her family,” said
Talcott Camp, deputy director of the ACLU Reproductive Freedom
Project. “We’ll continue to fight this law and others like it
around the country to stop this insidious campaign to outlaw
safe and legal abortions.”  The case is Planned Parenthood of Wisconsin Inc. v. Van
Hollen, 3:13-cv-00465, U.S. District Court, Western District of
Wisconsin (Madison).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  