-- Police, Politicians Seen as Malaysia’s Most Corrupt in Survey
-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y
-- 2013-07-09T06:20:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/police-politicians-seen-as-malaysia-s-most-corrupt-in-survey.html
The police and political parties are
perceived by Malaysians to be the country’s most corrupt
institutions, according to a  Transparency International  survey.  The Berlin-based advocacy group found 12 percent out of
1,000 people polled between September and March had personally
experienced police bribery in the past year. The poll also found
8 percent had encountered graft in the judicial system.  The findings put further pressure on Prime Minister Najib
Razak to follow through on his general election pledge to tackle
corruption. While Malaysia moved to 54th from 60th place among
176 countries in Transparency International’s Corruption
Perceptions Index last year, it was ranked last for bribery
among 30 countries surveyed.  “The government must uphold rule of law without fear or
favor,” Akhbar Satar, president of the Malaysian branch of
Transparency International, told reporters today in Selangor,
outside of Kuala Lumpur. “The lack of big fish convictions
continues to be a concern.”  A separate survey by the Merdeka Center for Opinion
Research ahead of  Malaysia ’s May election found graft to be a
more pressing concern among voters than taming  inflation  or
boosting foreign investment. After being returned to power,
Najib responded by recruiting Transparency International
Malaysia’s former president Paul Low to his cabinet as a
minister overseeing the war on corruption.  Since first becoming prime minister in 2009, Najib has
speeded up corruption cases to clear a backlog and used public
humiliation with an  online gallery  of those convicted, D.
Ravindran, head of anti-corruption at the government’s
Performance Management and Delivery Unit, said in March. A
Whistleblower Protection Act was passed in 2010, government
contracts are now published online and companies that bid for
projects are asked to sign integrity pacts, he said.  Transparency International’s latest survey found the most
common reasons for bribe-paying where to speed things up and
because it was the only way to obtain a service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manirajan Ramasamy in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Rosalind Mathieson in Singapore at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  