-- Portland Gasoline Surges Amid Northwest Pipeline Slowdowns
-- B y   D a n   M u r t a u g h
-- 2013-07-09T22:23:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/portland-gasoline-surges-amid-northwest-pipeline-slowdowns.html
Gasoline on the  spot market  in
Portland, Oregon, strengthened to the highest level in seven
weeks as pipelines in the Northwest shut or ran at reduced
capacity following spills.  Phillips 66 (PSX)  expects to restart its Seminoe pipeline by the
end of this week after shutting it July 2 after detecting a leak
in southern Montana. The line transports finished petroleum
products such as gasoline and diesel from the company’s
Billings, Montana, refinery to Wyoming,  Utah  and Colorado.  Kinder Morgan Energy Partners LP (KMP)  is running its Trans
Mountain pipeline at 80 percent of normal pressure after
restarting the line following a June 26 spill. The 300,000-barrel-a-day pipeline transports oil and refined products from
 Edmonton , Alberta, to the central British Columbia region,
Vancouver and Puget Sound area in Washington.  Conventional, 84-octane gasoline in  Portland  strengthened
by 8.5 cents to a premium of 26.5 cents a gallon more than
futures on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange at 3:46 p.m. East
Coast time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It’s the
highest premium since May 20.  The  premium  of Portland gasoline to California-blend
gasoline, or Carbob, in  Los Angeles  strengthened to 9 cents a
gallon, the highest level since May 24.  Los Angeles Carbob strengthened by 1.5 cents to a premium
of 17.5 cents a gallon above New York futures. Carbob in San
Francisco weakened by 2.5 cents to an 11.5-cents-a-gallon
premium.  State-blend diesel in Los Angeles weakened by 0.5 cent to a
premium of 4.5 cents a gallon to Nymex futures. The fuel in  San
Francisco  was unchanged at a 3-cent premium.  Low-sulfur  diesel  in Portland strengthened by 0.5 cent to 4
cents over ultra-low-sulfur diesel on the Nymex.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  