-- Putin Officials, Judges Seen Topping Russia Corruption in Survey
-- B y   A n t o n   D o r o s h e v   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2013-07-09T17:25:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/putin-officials-judges-seen-topping-russia-corruption-in-survey.html
Police, judges and lawmakers, as well
as bureaucrats, are seen in  Russia  as the most corrupt groups,
fueling popular discontent with the government, according to a
global survey by Transparency International.  Five percent of Russian respondents rated President
 Vladimir Putin ’s anti-corruption campaign as effective, a sharp
drop from a 2010 poll, according to the survey of people in 107
countries released today. It’s part of a global trend in which
half of those surveyed perceive corruption as worsening in the
past two years, according to the Berlin-based watchdog’s report.  Russia is one of only seven nations, including Libya,
Pakistan and  Serbia , where public servants are seen as the most
corrupt of 12 institutions, according to the survey. Putin’s
third term as president has been marked by high-profile probes,
including one that led to the ouster of Anatoly Serdyukov as
defense minister, while no top government officials have been
charged. Russia remains the world’s most corrupt major economy,
according to a 2012  report  by  Transparency International .  “Russia is a state where corruption is the root of
functioning,” Yuliy Nisnevich, a Transparency International
board member in Russia. Outrage at “the ultimate form of social
injustice” is growing, and “an explosion will come when people
say they are ready for direct action,” he said.  Ninety-two percent of Russian respondents said bureaucrats
enrich themselves and abuse their positions more than other
groups. Police were seen as second-most corrupt, followed by
judges and lawmakers. Business was ranked 10th in Russia, while
religious bodies were last, tagged by 40 percent.  While 5 percent of the Russian respondents saw Putin’s
efforts as effective, none said they were “very effective,”
down from 18 percent and 6 percent respectively in 2010,
according to Transparency International.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anton Doroshev in Moscow at 
 adoroshev@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  