-- Quebec Probes Train Explosion as CEO Queries Firefighters
-- B y   L a u r e n   S   M u r p h y ,   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-07-09T22:43:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/quebec-probes-train-explosion-as-ceo-queries-firefighters.html
The investigation into the rail
explosion that killed 15 in  Quebec  accelerated as police said a
possible criminal act or negligence may be involved and
firefighters rejected a railroad executive’s suggestion that
they may have inadvertently caused the disaster.  The death toll was raised to 15 from 13 yesterday, Surete du Quebec
provincial police Chief Inspector Michel Forget told reporters today.  The  Montreal , Maine & Atlantic Railway Ltd. train carrying
72 carloads of crude crashed early Saturday near the center of
Lac-Megantic, about 250 kilometers (155 miles) east of Montreal.
About 50 people are either still missing or confirmed dead,
police said. It’s the country’s most lethal rail  disaster  since
a collision between a Canadian National Railway freight train
and a VIA Rail passenger train near Hinton,  Alberta  killed 23
people in February 1986.  “There are pieces that might lead us to believe that there
are certain facts that might come to criminal acts,”  Michel
Forget said at a televised press conference in Lac-Megantic,
Quebec today. “Criminal negligence might be one of the
leads that we are looking at. Certain others, also. We are not
at the stage of an arrest right now.”  Police and rail safety authorities are investigating how
the unmanned train moved from its parking spot outside the
neighboring town of Nantes before barreling into Lac-Megantic,
incinerating about 30 buildings in the heart of downtown.  Denies Wrongdoing  Nantes Fire Chief Patrick Lambert denied his team did
anything wrong after Edward Burkhardt, president and chief
executive officer of closely held Rail World Inc. of  Chicago ,
which owns Montreal, Maine & Atlantic, raised questions about
firefighters actions after a fire broke out on the train about
two hours before the explosions.  “Nothing the firefighters did could have put the train in
jeopardy,” Lambert said on CBC TV yesterday. Municipal
employees, including firefighters, have been asked not to speak
to media, said a spokeswoman today for Nantes municipal civil
security, who declined to give her name.  Burkhardt, who is also chairman of Montreal, Maine &
Atlantic, said today that the Nantes firefighters responding to
a fire on the parked train’s lead locomotive may have switched
off the engine, causing the air brakes to release, after the
engineer secured it and left for the night. He made similar
comments yesterday to CBC TV.  Police Protection  Burkhardt is accepting police protection for a visit to
Lac-Megantic, after receiving death threats, he said in an
interview in Rail World’s offices in Rosemont,  Illinois .  Investigators will examine the design of the 111-class cars
carrying the crude oil, as well as the operator’s procedures,
and whether the train should have been parked where it was,
Donald Ross, lead investigator with the federal Transportation
Safety Board, said today.  “There’s a number of operational issues, including the
operation of the train, the requirements and company policies
regarding securement of trains,” Ross told reporters in Lac-Megantic. It’s too early to assess whether stronger cars would
have prevented the explosion, he said.  Forget added in the past day, two officers had to be
removed from the accident site after becoming ill.  The Quebec coroner’s office asked families to bring hats,
razors, toothbrushes and hairbrushes to help with the
identification of the bodies using hair samples.  Air Brakes  “It’s going to be a challenge to make positive
identifications because the fire was so intense,” Genevieve
Guilbault, a spokeswoman for the Quebec coroner’s office, said
by phone from the town last night. “We are only at the
beginning of the investigation. We are spending all our time
looking for bodies at the site.”  Montreal, Maine & Atlantic said in a July 7 statement that
the train was shut down after the engineer left for the evening,
which “may have resulted in the release of air brakes on the
locomotive that was holding the train in place.” The company
earlier  said  the train had been tied down by the engineer before
he left as part of a crew change.  While Montreal Maine & Atlantic has followed industry-standard practices in leaving locomotives running overnight with
no engineer or conductor on board, the railroad will stop that
practice in the wake of the accident, Burkhardt, 74, said today.
If a train needs to be parked while awaiting a crew change, “we
will have a watchman or somebody on it,” he said in the
interview.  The number of railway accidents in  Canada  increased to 439
in the first five months of the year, up 7.9 percent from 2012,
largely due to derailments, according to  data  provided by the
Transportation Safety Board. Accidents involving dangerous goods
rose to 57 in the first five months of the year from 48 a year
earlier.  Rail Safety  Thomas Mulcair , leader of Canada’s main opposition  New
Democratic Party , criticized Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s
government for cutting spending on rail safety.  “We’re seeing more and more petroleum products being
transported by rail,” Mulcair told reporters July 7. “There
are attendant dangers involved in that, and at the same time the
Conservative government is cutting transport safety in Canada,
cutting back the budgets in that area.”  According to estimates of departmental spending plans,
Canada has forecast C$33.8 million in spending on rail safety
for the fiscal year that began April 1, down from C$36.9 million
the previous fiscal year.  “Our government has not cut any inspectors,” Denis Lebel,
Canada’s Minister of Transport, said yesterday in a media
briefing in Lac-Megantic, according to a transcript provided by
his office. “We have taken concrete action to increase rail
safety. In fact, we have invested over C$100 million in rail
safety since 2009.” The government toughened penalties for
rule-breakers while railway companies are required by law to
ensure the safe operations of their trains, Lebel said.  Regular Inspections  Montreal, Maine & Atlantic underwent “regular”
inspections, Gerard McDonald, assistant deputy minister for
safety and security at  Transport Canada  told reporters today at
a briefing in Ottawa.  Regulators have inspected 514 miles of the company’s
tracks, 37 crossings and 20 locomotives over the past year, Luc
Bourdon, director general for rail safety at Transport Canada,
said at the same briefing. Leaving a train unattended didn’t
violate rules, he said.  It’s “ridiculous” to blame the firefighters, as turning
off an engine doesn’t release the air breaks, according to
Robert Halstead, who conducts forensic analysis to identify what
causes train-related accidents. An engineer reduces pressure to
apply the brakes, and the engine is “completely irrelevant” in
doing that, he said.  “The cardinal rule in railroading is that you should never
ever trust air brakes to hold a standing train long-term,”
Halstead, president and chief executive officer of  IronWood
Technologies Inc.  in Syracuse,  New York , said by phone. “The
principal thing would be to apply the hand brakes, and enough
hand brakes to hold the train on the ground that it’s stopped
on.”  Halstead said it appears that either the hand brakes were
not applied at all, or an insufficient number of hand brakes
were applied to hold the train. Ross of the Transportation
Safety Board said the use of hand brakes is part of the
investigation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lauren S Murphy in Toronto at 
 lmurphy48@bloomberg.net ;
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa  at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  