-- Raytheon Targeted as Pima County Plans Record Bond Vote
-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d   a n d   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-07-09T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/raytheon-targeted-as-pima-county-plans-record-bond-vote.html
Tucson, Arizona, the sixth-poorest
U.S. big city, stands to gain protection from federal  defense-spending  cuts as its home county plans a record bond package, in
part to entice  Raytheon (RTN)  Co. to expand missile production.  Pima County, bordering  Mexico , expects to ask voters to
approve the $650 million debt plan as soon as next year. Some
proceeds may target Raytheon, whose 10,500 workers make it the
area’s largest private employer, and also finance a move of part
of the University of Arizona to downtown Tucson. The metro
area’s 20.4 percent poverty rate is about 5 percentage points
above the national average, according to the U.S. Census Bureau.  With about 1 million residents, Pima is planning the debt
offer after winning an 11 percent drop in borrowing costs in its
latest sale. The county, which collaborates with local
jurisdictions to finance capital projects, has also withstood a
Tea Party challenge resulting in an audit of its bond programs.  The municipality “is almost like a bond bank, where they
decide how to deploy the money by committee and determine what’s
best for the county,” said Michael Hamilton, who oversees about
$331 million of  Arizona  muni debt at Nuveen Investments in
 Portland ,  Oregon . “It’s a good thing, and that’s what came out
in the auditor’s report.”  The state’s Republican-controlled legislature ordered an
audit of Pima’s bond programs last year amid allegations of
inequitable spending and incomplete work. The auditor general’s
January  report  found that $735 million in projects since 1998
benefited residents countywide with 93 percent of the work done
on time.  Narrowing Spread  Investors rewarded Pima with a yield of 2.55 percent on 10-year notes as part of an $89 million general-obligation issue in
May, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That was about 0.63
percentage point more than  benchmark  debt.  In a sale a year earlier, the 10-year segment was priced to
yield 0.71 percentage point more than top-rated securities.  The municipality has issued bonds almost annually since
1998 and had about $456 million in general obligations as of
mid-April, according to  Fitch Ratings . Only two other counties
in the state had any general-obligation debt as of June 2011,
totaling $54 million in principal, according to the auditor.  The county  Bond Advisory Committee  is evaluating $1.2
billion in projects, with about half expected to be put before
voters, said Larry Hecker, its chairman.  Defense Connection  The economy of Tucson, Arizona’s second-largest city after
Phoenix, is closely tied to defense spending. In addition to
Raytheon, Davis-Monthan Air Force Base employs 8,566, according
to Fitch.  Automatic federal spending cuts, known as sequestration,
have focused attention on protecting the base and the county’s
Raytheon plant, which makes guided missiles, air-to-air missiles
and precision-guided munitions.  “There is concern on how the sequester cuts will play out
and how the winding down of the wars will affect employment,”
said  George Hammond , an economist at the  University of Arizona 
in Tucson. “Federal civilian and military activity is a larger
share in the Tucson area. The impact on procurement spending on
the local economy is a much bigger deal.”  Among projects  proposed by the county administrator  is a
$30 million plan to buy land and continue noise abatement around
the base and $90 million to relocate a road and build a stretch
of highway as a technology corridor near Raytheon.  Missile Highway  The county wants to give the company room to expand or
potentially consolidate programs in Tucson from elsewhere if its
defense contracts are reduced, administrator Chuck Huckelberry
said. In 2010, Raytheon chose  Alabama  when it needed to build a
new facility.  “We could rub our hands together and worry, but we are
more interested in taking the action to protect those two
facilities,” Huckelberry said of Raytheon and the air base.  Jon Kasle, a spokesman for Waltham, Massachusetts-based
Raytheon, declined to comment on the county’s plans or possible
expansion.  Among the biggest proposals in the bond plan is $176
million to move part of the University of Arizona, the county’s
largest employer with 10,681 workers, to downtown Tucson, a few
miles from the main campus. The project would relocate two
museums and build a 10-story small-business incubator and
classroom building.  University Power  The effort mirrors those in other communities that have
attempted to leverage universities as economic drivers and
populate downtown streets that empty after business hours. In
Phoenix, voters approved $223 million in bonds in 2006 and the
city put up 20 acres of land downtown to move some Arizona State
University programs from nearby Tempe.  “Being able to attract people to the core has economic-development value beyond just what the programs themselves
bring,” said Mike Proctor, the University of Arizona’s vice
president for regional development. “The sense is that if the
county, university and others could come together to make a
difference down there, that would be a great opportunity.”  Metropolitan Tucson’s  poverty rate  in 2011 was above the
nation’s 15.9 percent, according to Census data. The level was
sixth-highest among metropolitan areas with 500,000 or more
people.  Chronic Poverty  A January  report  by the University of Arizona’s Economic
and Business Research Center attributed the high rate in part to
chronic poverty on American Indian reservations and low wages in
many occupations.  The county’s general obligations are graded AA, third
highest, by Fitch. The county has a debt ratio at 2.3 percent of
fiscal 2013 property values, compared with 5 percent to 7
percent for some issuers, said Steve Murray, a senior director
in U.S. public finance at Fitch.  The county also pays off its bonds more quickly than the
typical issuer, with amortization of 91 percent in 10 years,
compared with the average rate of 50 percent, Murray said.  “We are constantly turning over our debt so we can issue
more debt so we can build infrastructure for a growing
community,” Huckelberry said.  In the biggest offer scheduled by an Arizona issuer in the
$3.7 trillion municipal market, Tucson plans to sell about $27
million of munis as soon as next week, Bloomberg data show. The
securities will be federally taxable and will go toward
refinancing.  Benchmark munis maturing in 10 years yield about 2.8
percent after the  interest rate  reached 2.96 percent last month,
the highest since April 2011, Bloomberg data show.  With similar-maturity Treasuries yielding 2.64 percent, the
ratio of the yields, a measure of relative value, is about 106
percent. The average since 2001 is about 92 percent. A higher
percentage means local debt is cheaper relative to federal
obligations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  