-- Trayvon Martin Drug Use to Be Explored in Shooter’s Trial
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   B o y d
-- 2013-07-09T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/trayvon-martin-drug-use-to-be-explored-in-shooter-s-trial.html
Trayvon Martin’s use of marijuana
will be shared with the jury in the second-degree murder trial
of George Zimmerman, a Neighborhood Watch volunteer accused of
shooting the unarmed  Florida  teenager.  Seminole County Circuit Judge Debra Nelson, who earlier
blocked any mention of drug use in opening statements, ruled
yesterday that Zimmerman’s lawyers may tell jurors about a
toxicology report showing that Martin’s blood at the time of his
death included traces of tetrahydrocannabinol, or THC, the
active ingredient in marijuana.  “We know the level of THC in his body is enough to cause
some level of impairment,” Don West, a lawyer for Zimmerman,
argued before the judge’s ruling.  Nelson, who rejected arguments from the prosecution that
evidence of drug use would be too prejudicial, said that failing
to allow Zimmerman’s lawyers to present the toxicology
information would be an error that might cause an appeals court
to throw out the trial’s verdict.  The ruling capped the first full day of Zimmerman’s
defense. His lawyers called to the witness stand in state court
in Sanford, Florida, five of his friends, two police officers
who investigated the shooting, and Martin’s father to cast doubt
on the prosecution’s contention that the yelling heard in the
background of a 911 call was by Martin.  Pivotal Recording  The 911 call, on which the screams end with the sound of a
gunshot, may be pivotal in the case in which prosecutors allege
that Zimmerman, 29, was the aggressor. Zimmerman told police he
acted in self-defense after Martin, 17, punched him in face,
knocked him to the ground and threatened to kill him. A resident
of the condominium complex where Martin was killed made the call
after hearing what sounded like a fight. There were no
eyewitnesses to the shooting.  Nelson earlier barred testimony by prosecution experts who
said the voice captured on the 911 recording was Martin’s. Their
methods were too unreliable to be used in the trial, she ruled,
while letting friends and relatives of Martin and Zimmerman tell
jurors who they believed was screaming.  “Do you know the voice in the background screaming?”
O’Mara, Zimmerman’s lawyer, asked the first witness of the day,
Sondra Osterman, after playing the recording in the courtroom.  ‘It’s Georgie’  “Yes, it’s Georgie,” said Osterman, who met Zimmerman in
2006 while the two worked at a mortgage company.  John Donnelly, a former physician’s assistant who has known
Zimmerman for a decade, recounted his days as an Army medic
during the war in  Vietnam , where he said he learned to discern
the screams of his fellow soldiers during combat operations.  “That is George Zimmerman, and I wish to God I didn’t have
that ability to understand,” Donnelly replied.  The Feb. 26, 2012, killing of an unarmed black teenager by
a man whose father is white and mother Hispanic prompted rallies
and protests across the U.S. and elicited a comment from
President  Barack Obama  that if he had a son, that child would
have looked like Martin.  Officials initially declined to arrest Zimmerman, saying it
appeared he had acted within the bounds of the state’s Stand
Your Ground law. The statute allows individuals who feel
threatened in a public place to “meet force with force.”  Life Sentence  Zimmerman faces a possible sentence of life in prison if
convicted of second-degree murder. His lawyer, Mark O’Mara, has
said he expects the defense to finish its case this week.  On cross-examination, prosecutors asked defense witnesses
whether Zimmerman seemed angry -- addressing the state of mind
needed for a second-degree murder charge -- during a call he
made to police after he spotted Martin walking through his
condominium complex. They were asked about the expletives
Zimmerman used to describe criminals in his neighborhood seen
previously and his frustration at the failures of authorities to
apprehend them.  Before Trayvon’s father  Tracy Martin  was called by the
defense, two Sanford police detectives told jurors that when he
heard the recording for the first time at Sanford Police
headquarters, he said the screams weren’t his son’s. At trial,
he testified that they were.  “I can’t tell,” Tracy Martin, Trayvon’s father, said
yesterday he told police on Feb. 28, 2012, when they first
played the call for him. “I never said ’no it wasn’t my son’s
voice’.”  After listening to the recording 20 times in the weeks
following the shooting, Tracy Martin said he came to believe it
was his son on the recording.  He told the six-woman jury that he was in shock the first
time heard the fatal shot from Zimmerman’s semi-automatic
handgun captured on the recording.  “That was the shot that killed my son,” Martin said. “I
was listening to my son’s last cries for help. I was listening
to his life being taken.”  The case is State of Florida v. Zimmerman, 1712FO4573,
Florida Circuit Court, 18th Judicial Circuit, Seminole County
(Sanford).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Boyd in the Sanford, Florida, courthouse  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  