-- Treasury Sells Three-Year Notes at Highest Yields Since 2011
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-07-09T21:12:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/treasuries-little-changed-after-32-billion-three-year-note-sale.html
Treasuries were little changed after
the U.S. sold $32 billion of three-year notes at the highest
yields since June 2011 amid speculation the  Federal Reserve  is
preparing to reduce debt purchases.  The notes yielded 0.719 percent, more than double the 0.354
percent at the May 28 auction. Yields have increased on bets the
U.S. economy is strong enough to allow Fed Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  and policy makers to start trimming the asset buying
that has helped cap borrowing costs. The Fed will release
minutes of its June 18-19 meeting tomorrow.  “The auction saw strong demand with these attractive yield
levels after the intense selloff we’ve seen,” said Larry Milstein, managing director in New York of government-debt
trading at R.W. Pressprich & Co. “At some point, the market
expects the Fed will taper. But the Fed won’t raise rates any
time soon, which puts a lid on how high rates can go.”  The  yield  on the current three-year note was little changed
at 0.68 percent at 5 p.m. in New York, according to Bloomberg
Bond Trader Prices.  The  yield  on the benchmark 10-year  note  was 2.63 percent.
The 1.75 percent note maturing in May 2023 traded at 92 3/8.  Bidder Participation  “We’ve stabilized at these levels and now people are
starting to see value,” Tom Simons, an economist in  New York  at
Jefferies LLC, one of 21 primary dealers obligated to bid at
U.S. debt auctions, said before the sale. “We’ve had a pretty
dramatic move in yield since the last auction.”  The notes sold today were forecast to yield 0.724 percent
in a Bloomberg News survey of seven of the Fed’s primary
dealers.  The  bid-to-cover  ratio, which gauges demand by comparing
total bids with the amount of securities offered, was 3.35,
versus 2.95 at the previous auction and the highest since May.  Indirect bidders , an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 35.6 percent of the notes, compared
with an average of 26.2 percent for the past 10 sales, and the
highest since September.  Direct bidders , non-primary-dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 13 percent of
the notes at the sale, up from June’s 8.4, which was lowest
since August, and compared with an average of 19.9 percent for
the previous 10 auctions.  Primary dealers bought 51.5 percent of the notes, the
lowest since January.  ‘International Interest’  The central bank is buying $85 billion of bonds a month to
put downward pressure on borrowing costs. Bernanke said on June
19 that policy makers may begin slowing purchases this year
should the  U.S. economy  meet the central bank’s goals.  The Treasury Department is selling $66 billion in notes and
bonds this week, including $21 billion of 10-year securities
tomorrow and $13 billion of 30-year debt on July 11.  Based on “where yields are, you’ll see international
interest in the 10-year,” said Tom Tucci, managing director and
head of Treasury trading in New York at CIBC World Markets Corp.
“The hawkishness of Friday’s prices was overdone.”  The sales this week will raise $5.6 billion of new cash, as
maturing securities held by the public total $60.4 billion,
according to the Treasury.  Trimming ‘Shorts’  Treasury three-year notes have lost 0.5 percent this year,
compared with a return of 0.6 percent in 2012, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch indexes. The broader Treasuries market
has declined 3.1 percent this year after gaining 2.2 percent
last year.  Investors in Treasuries remained net short this week even
as they trimmed the bets that prices of the securities will
drop, according to a survey by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The  proportion  of net shorts was at 4 percentage points in
the week ending yesterday, down from 6 percentage points in the
previous week, according to JPMorgan.  Outright longs, or bets the securities will increase in
value, rose to 15 percent, from 13 percent, the survey said,
while outright shorts remained at 19 percent. Investors cut
neutral bets to 66 percent from 68 percent.  “We believe the rate selloff is beginning to peter out,”
Ira Jersey, an interest-rate strategist at primary dealer Credit
Suisse Group AG in New York, wrote in a note to clients. Ten-year notes “will end the year around 2.75 percent.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  