-- Reckless Bankers Seen Avoiding Jail Even as Osborne Backs Plan
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o ,   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-07-09T11:10:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/reckless-bankers-seen-avoiding-jail-even-as-osborne-backs-plan.html
The U.K.’s plan to jail “reckless”
bankers and defer bonuses for as much as 10 years needs more
than the enthusiastic support of Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne .  Prosecutors will struggle to prove criminality beyond a
reasonable doubt and firms will still be able to decide for
themselves how long bankers will be required to defer their
bonuses, according to lawyers.  “Maybe it’s seen as like treason -- it’s right to have on
the statute books, but it’s very unlikely we’ll see it
prosecuted,” Carlos Conceicao, a regulatory lawyer at Clifford
Chance LLP, said in reference to the prison plan. “No one’s
going to say that treason shouldn’t be an offense, though.”  Jailing reckless bankers is part of a program of sweeping
change proposed by the Parliamentary Commission on Banking
Standards, a cross-party group of lawmakers set up last year by
Osborne after a series of scandals and five years of poor
returns for the financial industry. Critics said the plan was a
populist gesture that would dent competition in London’s finance
industry.  Osborne yesterday backed calls to defer part of bonuses for
the highest earners at banks for up to a decade and said the
government may introduce legislation later this year to
criminalize managerial recklessness.  Dented Confidence  Rescues of Northern Rock Plc,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc  and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  undermined confidence in
London’s finance industry. Lawmakers and regulators have
targeted banker pay for incentivizing risk-taking and sought
higher civil and criminal penalties to hold individuals
accountable.  “Most people who’ve been thinking about it have been
wracking their brain as to what circumstances would this offense
be used, and trying to come up with historical examples,”
Conceicao said. “None come to mind.”  Proposing that reckless bankers will go to jail
“undoubtedly chimes with public opinion,” said Alistair
Graham, a litigation lawyer at Mayer Brown LLP in London. It
“will be incredibly difficult” to prove reckless misconduct in
the management of a bank.  Nicholas Stretch, a lawyer at the law firm CMS Cameron
McKenna LLP, said the 10-year deferral proposal for bonuses “is
expected to be rarely implemented at this stage.”  The proposals are “misguided” and driven by “politics
and populism rather than sound business reasons,” said  John Purcell , chief executive officer of Purcell & Co., a London-based executive-search firm. “A three-year deferral period plus
clawback is sufficient to engender the behavior changes
required.”  Huge Amount  British Bankers’ Association Chief Executive Officer
Anthony Browne called the reforms “challenging” and said
“there has already been a huge amount of change in the industry
since the financial crisis.”  The U.K. markets regulator, the Financial Conduct
Authority, has also rejected the proposal of a reckless
management offense, saying that it doesn’t need the power to
prosecute executives at banks that fail or take bailouts because
such matters are unlikely to be criminal.  Bank failures are most often due to mismanagement rather
than deliberate wrongdoing, the regulator said in February in a
written response to questions from the parliamentary committee.  FCA Unconvinced  The FCA said it’s “not convinced” that bankers would act
more cautiously in taking risk if the authority had the power to
criminally prosecute them because the sanction would rarely be
used.  The regulator, previously known as the Financial Services
Authority, has only fined one banker over management failures
since the finance crisis. The burden of proof is far lower in
civil cases than in criminal prosecutions.  The fine was a 500,000-pound ($743,000) penalty against
Peter Cummings, the former head of HBOS Plc’s corporate banking
unit, over the aggressive expansion of corporate lending that
led to its near-collapse. The regulator is also trying to give a
100,000 fine to Chris Willford, former group finance director at
nationalized lender Bradford & Bingley Plc, for risk management
failures. The penalty still faces legal challenges.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in  London  at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net ;
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  