-- Reckless Bankers, Early-Data Probe, ‘Puffery’: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-07-09T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/reckless-bankers-early-data-probe-puffery-compliance.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  backed tougher rules for the banking industry,
including legislation to jail reckless bankers and giving
regulators the power to defer bonuses for as long as 10 years.  In its  response  to the recommendations of the  Parliamentary
Commission on Banking Standards , the government said yesterday
it plans to implement the main findings, with new laws if
needed.  Pay reform is part of a program of sweeping change proposed
by the commission, a cross-party group of lawmakers set up last
year by Osborne after a series of scandals and five years of
poor returns for the financial industry. The recommendations
being adopted go further than changes introduced by U.K.
regulators after the financial crisis, which forced bankers to
wait as long as five years to get their bonuses.  Osborne plans to introduce legislation later this year that
would make “reckless” management of lenders a crime, meaning
executives of failed firms could face jail time.  The government also “strongly supports” calls that a
substantial part of variable compensation for the highest
earners at banks should be deferred for up to a decade to
reflect the length of time it takes for profits and losses from
transactions to be realized.  Other suggestions backed by the government include powers
to claw back bonuses awarded by banks that receive state aid and
paying staff in bail-in bonds that convert into capital to
absorb losses, leaving managers exposed to losses if their firm
goes bust.  Compliance Policy  EU to Toughen Creditor-Loss Rules at Failing Banks From August  The European Union is set to toughen its rules on state
support for failing  banks  from Aug. 1, as it seeks to ensure
that private creditors take a hit before taxpayers, and that
bailed-out lenders face pay curbs.  The European Commission is scheduled to publish the updated
bank state aid guidelines tomorrow, according to an EU official,
who asked not to be cited by name because the measures haven’t
been made public.  The updated guidelines, which will take effect next month,
will require shareholders and  junior creditors  at a failing bank
to face losses before any government funds are provided,
according to a draft of the plans obtained by  Bloomberg News  in
May. Lenders would also be expected to abide by “strict
executive pay policies,” according to the draft, drawn up by
the staff of  Joaquin Almunia , the bloc’s antitrust chief.  EU governments have provided 1.7 trillion euros ($2.2
trillion) of support to their banking systems since the 2008
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., according to
commission data. Nations have dealt with failing banks in a
variety of ways.  The state aid guidelines will be published on the same day
that  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services commissioner,
presents draft legislation to centralize bank resolution in the
euro area.  Banks Urged by Regulators to Adopt Tougher Internal Auditors  Banks were pushed by two U.K. financial regulators to
empower internal auditors to stand up to senior decision makers
within the firm and oversee risk taking.  Regulators expect banks to have internal auditors that can
provide a challenge to management,  Andrew Bailey , the Bank of
England’s top banking supervisor, said in an e-mailed statement.  Guidelines published last week by the  Chartered Institute
of Internal Auditors  seek to improve governance within banks.
Internal auditors assess whether organizations are  managing risk 
properly and warn members of the firm’s board if they anticipate
problems.  The new code creates industry-specific benchmarks that can
be checked by regulators, the CIIA said in a separate statement.
It also calls for internal auditors to report to the chairman of
a company’s audit committee.  Compliance Action  China Ex-Rail Chief Given Suspended Death Sentence for Bribery  China’s former railway minister was given a suspended death
sentence for abuse of power and taking bribes, making him the
highest-ranking official convicted since Xi Jinping took over
the Communist Party last year.  Liu Zhijun , 60, will be deprived of political rights for
life and all his property will be confiscated, the official
Xinhua News Agency said yesterday, citing the Beijing No. 2
Intermediate People’s Court. Under Chinese law, his death
sentence may be reduced to  life imprisonment  for good behavior.  The punishment completes the downfall of an official whose
case symbolized the corruption that accompanied the roll-out of
the world’s biggest high-speed rail network. Allegations of
graft surrounding the rail construction, along with a 2011
bullet-train crash that killed 40 people, reflect broader
concern over the quality of China’s infrastructure expansion.  Liu was charged with accepting 64.6 million  yuan  ($10.5
million) in bribes between 1986 and 2011, Xinhua said.  Courts  S&P Argues Puffery Defense at U.S. Case’s First Court Test  Standard & Poor’s , in its first courtroom argument against
U.S. government claims that the ratings service defrauded
investors, said reasonable investors wouldn’t have relied on its
“puffery” about credit ratings.  John Keker, a lawyer for the  McGraw Hill Financial Inc. (MHFI) 
unit, yesterday told U.S. District Judge  David Carter  in  Santa
Ana ,  California , that S&P’s generic statements about its
business aspirations weren’t material to the banks buying
securities and didn’t meaningfully change the mix of information
available to investors.  The statements, which Keker described as “generic,” don’t
“make a scheme to defraud,” he told the judge, because there
was no specific intent to harm the victim, in this case the
investor.  S&P has asked Carter to the dismiss the government’s case,
which seeks as much as $5 billion in civil penalties, on the
grounds that the  Justice Department  didn’t adequately support
its allegations that the company defrauded federally insured
financial institutions by knowingly understating the credit
risks of securities linked to residential mortgages.  S&P said in its request for dismissal that the government
can’t base its fraud claims on S&P’s assertions that its ratings
were independent, objective and free of conflicts of interest
because U.S. courts have found that such vague and generalized
statements are the kind of “puffery” that a reasonable
investor wouldn’t rely on.  The company also urged the judge to take into account that
the government is pressing fraud claims even though other rating
companies issued identical ratings on the same securities at
issue, and S&P’s views were consistent with other market
participants, according to an April 22 filing.  The U.S. sued New York-based S&P on Feb. 4, alleging its
credit ratings for residential mortgage-backed securities and
collateralized-debt obligations that included those securities,
contrary to what the company told investors, were based on a
desire to win business from issuers of the securities more than
on the credit risk of the investments.  The case is U.S. v. McGraw-Hill Cos., 13-cv-00779, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California (Santa Ana).  For more, click here.  Thomson Reuters to Suspend Early Data Release Amid Probe  Thomson Reuters  Corp. will suspend the early release of a
consumer survey to select traders as part of an agreement with
the New York Attorney General’s office, which is probing the
matter.  New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman is
investigating the release of the  Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan  index of consumer sentiment to high-frequency traders
two seconds ahead of other Thomson Reuters subscribers, the
state said yesterday.  The two-second advantage is enough time for traders to take
“unfair advantage” of access to the information, the attorney
general’s office said in a statement.  Thomson Reuters is fully cooperating with the review and at
the request of the attorney general will simultaneously
distribute the survey to clients at 9:55 a.m. effective July 12,
Lemuel Brewster, a company spokesman, said in a statement.  Thomson Reuters made the change voluntarily at the request
of the attorney general, Brewster said.  “Thomson Reuters strongly believes that news and
information companies can legally distribute non-governmental
data and exclusive news through services provided to fee-paying
subscribers,” Brewster said in his statement.  Thomson Reuters’s agreement to discontinue the release two
seconds early removes a “prior distortion in the markets,” the
attorney general’s office said. It will remain in effect while
the state investigates, Schneiderman spokeswoman Melissa Grace
said.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News,
competes with New York-based Thomson Reuters in providing
financial news and information. Bloomberg publishes a Consumer
Comfort Index.  The Rosenblum case is Rosenblum v. Thomson Reuters
(Markets) LLC, 13-cv-02219, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  Interviews  Sporkin Sees Concerns With Ending Ban on Hedge-Fund Ads  Thomas Sporkin, a partner at  BuckleySandler LLP , talked
about this week’s expected vote by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission to lift the ban on advertising by hedge-funds and private equity firms.  Sporkin spoke with  Erik Schatzker  and Sara Eisen on
Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers.”  For more, click here.  Draghi Says ECB Communication Sharpened by Rate Outlook  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  spoke in
Brussels about the euro area economic outlook and inflationary
pressures. He also discussed a single bank supervisor and the
provision of guarantees.  Sharon Bowles , chairwoman of the  European Parliament ’s
economic and monetary affairs committee moderated the session.  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  Credit Suisse Hires Ex-Finma Official Zulauf for Tax Compliance  Urs Zulauf, who wwas a former general counsel at
Switzerland’s  Financial Market Supervisory Authority  and
remained a board member there until the end of January, will
join Credit Suisse in February.  Zulauf will support the bank in developing and implementing
its policy on tax compliance with respect to client assets.  He is expected to report directly to General Counsel Romeo
Cerutti and to Hans-Ulrich Meister, co-head of private banking
and wealth management, according to a statement issued by the
bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  