-- Regulators Faulted by Boxer for Lax Chemicals Oversight
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2013-07-09T22:05:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/regulators-faulted-by-u-s-senator-for-lax-chemicals-oversight.html
Senate Environment and Public Works
Committee Chairman  Barbara Boxer , citing lax oversight, urged
regulators and states to do more to curb threats caused by poor
storage of ammonium nitrate in the wake of April’s deadly
explosion in Texas.  Boxer said today the Environmental Protection Agency and
the  Occupational Safety and Health Administration  failed to do
enough to prevent further risks to the public. The April 17
blast at the Adair Grain Inc. fertilizer facility in West,
Texas, killed 14 people, caused more than $100 million in damage
and sparked debate over chemical-safety rules.  “We have to act to ensure more families don’t suffer the
loss of a loved one in another chemical disaster,” Boxer, a
California Democrat, said at a news conference. The committee
will hold a second hearing into the explosion in September or
October, she said.  The blast at the fertilizer plant, the deadliest U.S.
industrial accident in three years, left a crater 93 feet (28
meters) wide by 10 feet (3 meters) deep. The plant was approved
to store 270 tons of ammonium nitrate, which can explode when it
is heated or contaminated.  Boxer in a letter today urged governors to review state
workplace safety and environmental policies and where possible
adopt standards to reduce risks while allowing use of ammonium
nitrate with appropriate protections.  “Chemical explosions can have tragic consequences, but
best practices can prevent disasters,” Boxer wrote.  EPA Review  Boxer also urged the EPA to use its regulatory authority to
help cut risks, including updating its policies on ammonium
nitrate in place since 1997 and require facilities to treat
storage of ammonium nitrate as part of risk-management plans.  The agency in a statement today said it is reviewing all
policies related to storage of ammonium nitrate and chemical
plant safety, and will work with Boxer and state and local
authorities to boost safeguards.  “We are committed to focus on supporting local responders,
further efforts by the federal government to advance additional
chemical plant safety measures and standardizing the best
practices of industry leaders,” according to the statement.  Boxer said that OSHA, which didn’t inspect the Adair Grain
plant, also is at fault in the  Texas  disaster, although she said
the agency faces budget cuts that Congress needed to resolve.  “I don’t intend to stop after one hearing,” Boxer said.
“I am keeping my focus on this issue.’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  