-- Regulators Vote to Label AIG, GE Capital Systemically Important
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2013-07-09T21:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/regulators-vote-to-label-aig-ge-capital-systemically-important.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG)  and
General Electric Co.’s finance unit were designated systemically
important in a vote by U.S. regulators, a ruling the companies
had already agreed to accept.  The vote by the Financial Stability Oversight Council
subjects AIG and  GE Capital  to heightened Federal Reserve
oversight, the Treasury Department said in a statement today in
 Washington . The council, or FSOC, proposed the designations of
the two companies and  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU)  on June 3 and
gave the companies 30 days to appeal. AIG and GE Capital said
last week they wouldn’t contest the designations, while
Prudential said it will.  “The council has taken a decisive step to address threats
to U.S. financial stability and create a safer and more
resilient financial system,” Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew,
the council’s chairman, said in the statement. “These
designations will help protect the financial system and broader
economy from the types of risks that contributed to the
financial crisis.”  The council will “continue to review additional companies
in the designations process,” Lew said.  The vote completes the first designations of systemically
important companies by the council, which was created by the
2010 Dodd-Frank financial overhaul law to prevent another
crisis. The panel has 10 voting members and includes Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke .  The FSOC determined that “material financial distress” at
AIG and GE Capital “could pose a threat to U.S. financial
stability,” the Treasury said in the statement. “This does not
constitute a determination that the company is currently
experiencing material financial distress.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  