-- Rhode Island Cleared By SEC in Pension Probe
-- B y   A n n i e   L i n s k e y
-- 2013-07-09T17:45:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/rhode-island-cleared-by-sec-in-pension-probe.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission won’t charge  Rhode Island  with failing to disclose
its pension liabilities to bond investors, ending a two-year
probe and handing a victory to Treasurer Gina Raimondo.  “Our pension practices are transparent, our disclosure is
accurate, and our pension system is on a firm foundation,”
Raimondo said today in statement. “Any cloud that lingered over
our pension disclosure is gone.”  The SEC said it didn’t intend to recommend any enforcement
action, according to a letter from Assistant Regional Director
LeeAnn Gaunt that was provided by Raimondo’s office.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment on the probe.  The SEC in 2010 started cracking down on state and local
governments for not providing investors in the municipal  bond
market  with accurate information about pension liabilities.
Since then,  Illinois  and  New Jersey  both settled with the
commission after similar investigations.  SEC officials have pressed for more timely disclosure in a
market where individual investors, directly or through mutual
funds, own more than 70 percent of municipal debt.  Rhode Island disclosed the investigation into its $7.7
billion Employees’ Retirement System in February 2011. Federal
authorities examined bond-offering documents related to pension
funding from 2007 to the beginning of Raimondo’s term in 2011,
according to the treasurer.  Legal Help  The state hired the  Washington  law firm Vinson & Elkins to
help it navigate the probe. The treasurer’s office also tapped
Washington’s Hawkins Delafield & Wood LLP to help the state
update bond statements.  The Ocean State’s pension system was 61 percent funded in
2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, making it the
sixth-worst-funded state retirement system.  In 2011, Raimondo, a 42-year-old Democrat who may run for
governor, spearheaded a legislative initiative to revamp the
system. It included delaying retirement and offering workers
401(k)-type plans that don’t guarantee returns.  Unions are challenging those steps in court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annie Linskey in Boston at 
 alinskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  