-- Rongsheng Talks With Chinese Cities to Seek Financial Aid
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-10T03:45:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/rongsheng-talks-with-chinese-cities-to-seek-financial-aid.html
China Rongsheng Heavy Industries
Group Holdings Ltd. (1101)  is in talks with two coastal cities and
government departments to secure financial assistance, as the
nation’s shipowners association forecast a slump in vessel
orders will run through next year.  The country’s largest shipyard outside state control is in
discussions with Rugao and Nantong cities and some ministry-level departments related to the shipping industry, Rongsheng
spokesman William Li said by phone yesterday. The company said
July 5 it was seeking financial assistance from the government
after a plunge in orders forced it to reduce production and
“restructure” its workforce. Li declined to elaborate.  “It will be difficult to see an obvious recovery before
the end of next year” in demand for ships, Zhang Shouguo, vice
president of the  China Shipowner’s Association , said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “The shipping industry has been
in a downturn for at least three years.”  Rongsheng and other Chinese shipmakers are struggling as a
global vessel glut makes orders more difficult to win and pushes
down prices.  China  has also identified shipbuilding as an
industry with overcapacity, for which authorities won’t approve
new projects and will limit financing as part of Premier  Li Keqiang ’s campaign to reduce the economy’s reliance on exports
and investment for growth.  Shares Fall  Two calls each to Rugao and Nantong local-government media
offices seeking comment went unanswered yesterday. Rongsheng has
a production base in Nantong, a prefecture-level city that has
administrative jurisdiction over Rugao.  Shares of Rongsheng fell as much as 6.1 percent to 77 Hong
Kong cents in the city today. The stock has plunged 36 percent
this year, compared with an 8.3 percent decline for the
benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  “We expect shipyard failures could become a reality in
China if current conditions persist,” Barclays Plc analysts  Jon Windham  and Esme Pau wrote in a report to clients on July 8.
“Those yards not facing such harsh financial difficulties could
increase their market and pricing power.” The Hong Kong-based
analysts lowered their rating on Rongsheng’s shares to
“underweight” from “equalweight.”  A third of the shipyards in China, the world’s biggest
shipbuilding nation, may be shut in about five years, the China
Association of National Shipbuilding Industry said last week.
The order book of Chinese shipbuilders fell 23 percent at the
end of May from a year earlier, according to data from the
shipbuilders’ group.  Overcapacity  Rongsheng said last week it may post a net loss for the
first half. The Shanghai-based company reported an annual loss
of 573 million  yuan  ($93.5 million) last year and a 50 percent
drop in revenue. The Wall Street Journal reported on July 3 that
the shipbuilder had laid off about 8,000 workers.  Overcapacity is at the “core” of the plunge in profits
for China’s shipbuilders, the shipowner association’s Zhang
said. The group’s membership is made of the nation’s largest
shipping companies, including China Ocean Shipping Group, China
Shipping Group Co. and  Sinotrans Ltd. (598)   A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S, the world’s largest container
line, said last month it would pool vessels with it two biggest
competitors in an effort to manage overcapacity and raise
unprofitable freight rates. Maersk Line, Mediterranean Shipping
Co. and CMA CGM SA agreed to cooperate on the world’s three
largest trade lanes after seeing “virtually no growth” since
the financial crisis in 2008, Maersk Line Chief Trading and
Marketing Officer Vincent Clerc said.  ‘Helping Hand’  Vice Premier Zhang Gaoli said in May that China must
“strictly forbid” approvals of projects in industries with
overcapacity, including those in shipbuilding, state broadcaster
 China Central Television  reported. The Economic Information
Daily reported yesterday that China will implement “strict”
financial policies to curb overcapacity.  “There is a saying in Chinese: ‘Save the one that needs it
the most, not the poorest,’” Zhang said. “If Rongsheng’s
troubles are temporary, and the company’s other management
controls are good, and the company still has a promising future,
then yes, the government can step in and give it a helping
hand.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Chen in Beijing at 
 schen514@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  