-- Tropical Storm Chantal Weakens on Path to Dominican Republic
-- B y   K o n s t a n t i n   R o z h n o v   a n d   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-07-10T10:45:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/tropical-storm-chantal-expected-to-strike-dominican-republic.html
Tropical Storm Chantal weakened and
became less organized in the Caribbean Sea on a path that will
take it over the  Dominican Republic  and Haiti later today,
according to the U.S. National Hurricane Center.  Chantal, with its top winds falling to 45 miles (75
kilometers) per hour from 50 mph earlier, was about 140 miles
south of  Santo Domingo , the Dominican Republic’s capital, the
Miami-based center said in an  advisory  before 5 a.m.  New York 
time. The storm was moving west-northwest at 29 mph and “may be
degenerating into a tropical wave,” the center said.  Tropical storms and flooding are among the greatest natural
threats to the Dominican Republic, according to a report by the
Global Facility for Disaster Reduction and Recovery, a
consortium of 41 countries including the U.S., and eight
international organizations dedicated to reducing the
vulnerability of  developing countries  to natural disasters.  Chantal is forecast to drop 3 to 6 inches (8 to 15
centimeters) of rain over  Puerto Rico , the Dominican Republic,
Haiti, the  U.S. Virgin Islands  and the southeastern Bahamas,
with some areas possibly receiving as much as 10 inches, the
hurricane center said.  Tropical storm warnings are in place for the entire
coastline of the Dominican Republic and Haiti, as well as for
the Turks and Caicos and the southeastern Bahamas.  High Winds, Rain  A tropical storm watch is in place for the central Bahamas,
the center said. A storm warning means high winds, rain and
waves will probably hit within 36 hours, while a watch means
those conditions are possible.  In Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, ports are open
to outbound ships only, the U.S. Coast Guard said in a
statement. Vessels greater than 500 gross tons are advised to
make for sea.  The official storm track predicts Chantal’s center will be
“near or over” Hispaniola today, will reach Cuba tomorrow as a
tropical depression and then move toward  Florida ’s coast.  The Dominican Republic occupies the eastern two-thirds of
Hispaniola, while Haiti covers the western end.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Konstantin Rozhnov in London at 
 krozhnov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  