-- Tropical Storm Chantal Strengthens in Caribbean Sea
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-07-09T18:28:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/tropical-storm-chantal-strengthens-in-caribbean-sea.html
Tropical Storm Chantal strengthened
as it moved into the eastern Caribbean Sea, according to the
U.S. National Hurricane Center.  Chantal’s top winds increased to 65 miles (105 kilometers)
per hour, up from 50 mph earlier, the Miami-based hurricane
center said in an  advisory  at 2 p.m. Chantal, 335 miles
southeast of San Juan, Puerto Rico, was moving west-northwest at
29 mph.  “The center of Chantal will move away from the Lesser
Antilles later today and continue over the eastern Caribbean Sea
this afternoon and tonight,” Lixion Avila, a senior hurricane
specialist at the center, said in the advisory. “Chantal is
expected to be near or over the Dominican Republic on
Wednesday.”  Chantal is forecast to intensify to near-hurricane strength
before striking the southern coast of the Dominican Republic
tomorrow. The country, which shares the island of Hispaniola
with Haiti, has issued a hurricane watch from Barahona to Samana
and a tropical storm warning for its entire coast.  Tropical-storm warnings have been issued for Martinique,
Dominica, Guadeloupe, Puerto Rico and  Haiti  from Le Mole St.
Nicholas eastward. Watches are in effect for from Le Mole St.
Nicholas to the Dominican Republic border, the U.S. Virgin
Islands, Vieques and Culebra, the Turks and Caicos islands and
the southeastern Bahamas, the hurricane center said.  Storm Warning  A storm warning means high winds, rain and waves will
probably hit within 36 hours. A watch means those conditions are
possible.  Winds of at least 39 mph extend 90 miles to the northeast
from the center of the storm, according to the advisory. The
storm’s strongest winds are confined to “a small area east of
the center.”  Whether Chantal becomes a threat to  Florida  will depend on
its survival over the 10,000-foot mountains on Hispaniola and
the development of a high-pressure system to the north, said
Paul Walker, a meteorologist with  AccuWeather Inc . in State
College,  Pennsylvania . The mountains may disrupt Chantal’s
structure and rob it of the moisture needed to maintain
strength, he said.  “We have seen numerous storms come across there and get
torn apart and others have held together,” Walker said.  The high-pressure system could either steer it toward
Florida or let it pass out to sea after it moves through the
Bahamas, Walker said. Forecasters should have a better idea by
tomorrow or the next day if that will happen.  “That becomes the pivotal point as far as its future
track,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 