-- Rupee Forwards Rise Most Since September as Speculation Curbed
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-07-09T03:40:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/rupee-forwards-rise-from-a-record-on-rbi-proprietary-trading-ban.html
The Indian rupee’s one-month forwards
rose by the most since September after regulators announced
steps to curb speculation in the  derivatives market .  The  Reserve Bank  of India barred banks from proprietary
trading in currency futures and exchange-traded options,
effective immediately, according to a statement on the central
bank’s website after market hours yesterday. The  Securities and
Exchange Board of India  said in a statement today it will raise
margin requirements and curtail open positions from July 11.  One-month offshore rupee forwards advanced 1.6 percent, the
most since June 28, to 60.31 per dollar as of 9:06 a.m. in
Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That was the
biggest increase since Sept. 21. The spot rate strengthened 0.9
percent to 60.0725.  “The administrative measures prompted a short-covering
rally in the rupee, though if previous history is a guide, the
impact will only be temporary,”  Patrick Bennett , a Hong Kong-based strategist at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, wrote in
a research note today. “Further losses from here are likely,
though we don’t expect the same regional underperformance as
seen in the last months.”  Short-covering refers to purchases of currencies or
securities that are used to close out bets on price declines.
CIBC was the third-best rupee forecaster over the past four
quarters in data compiled by Bloomberg.  Record Low  The spot rate sank to an unprecedented 61.2125 yesterday
before closing 0.6 percent weaker at 60.615, according to prices
from local banks compiled by Bloomberg. It’s tumbled 10 percent
in the past three months, the worst performance among  Asia ’s 11
most-traded currencies.  The RBI, concerned about the fastest growth in currency
derivatives trading in more than three years, asked overseas
funds on June 26 to prove they aren’t speculating on the
 exchange rate .  Turnover in futures and options involving the rupee  climbed 
47 percent to a daily average of 387.7 billion rupees ($6.4
billion) in June on the National Stock Exchange of India Ltd.,
the biggest jump since January 2010. The central bank has also
enquired about foreign lenders’ open positions involving the
rupee. Global investors can only use rupee futures and options
to protect their holdings of Indian shares and debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  