-- Rupee Rebounds From Record Low as India Acts to Curb Speculation
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-07-09T12:52:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/rupee-rebounds-from-record-low-as-india-acts-to-curb-speculation.html
India ’s rupee rebounded from a record
low after regulators took measures to curb speculation in
currency derivatives.  The Reserve Bank of India barred banks from proprietary
trading in currency futures and exchange-traded options, it said
on its website yesterday. The Securities and Exchange Board of
India said separately it will raise margin requirements and cap
open positions in such contracts. The rupee plunged to an
unprecedented 61.2125 per dollar yesterday on concern the U.S.
will cut stimulus that boosted dollar supply. The RBI and state
refiners are looking at ways to manage dollar demand for energy
imports, an oil ministry official briefed on the matter said.  The rupee advanced 0.8 percent to 60.1450 per dollar in
Mumbai, the biggest gain since June 28, according to prices from
local banks compiled by Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility,
a measure of expected moves in the exchange rate used to price
options, fell 34 basis points, or 0.34 percentage point, to
13.21 percent.  “The tightening of derivative trading, coupled with
potential measures to curtail the impact of oil-related dollar
demand, could provide a reprieve to the rupee,” Irene Cheung, a
Singapore-based strategist with ANZ Banking Group Ltd., wrote in
a research report today. “That said, we continue to see the
rupee under severe pressure, as Fed quantitative-easing tapering
could continue to trigger capital outflows from India.”  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke signaled May 22 that the
central bank’s asset-buying program could be tapered should the
job market continue to improve. The unemployment rate held at
7.6 percent in June, near a four-year low.  Curbing Speculation  India’s central bank, concerned about the fastest growth in
currency derivatives trading in more than three years, asked
overseas funds on June 26 to prove they aren’t speculating on
the exchange rate.  Turnover in futures and options involving the rupee climbed
47 percent to a daily average of 387.7 billion rupees ($6.4
billion) in June on the National Stock Exchange of India Ltd.,
the biggest jump since January 2010. The central bank has also
enquired about foreign lenders’ open positions involving the
rupee. Global investors can use rupee derivatives in the over-the-counter market only to protect their holdings of Indian
shares and debt.  The RBI and state refiners including Indian Oil Corp. are
exploring the possibility of mandating a single state-run bank
to sell dollars to the firms, eliminating bids that fuel
currency speculation, the oil ministry official said, asking not
to be identified because the information isn’t public.  Current Account  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  is looking to sell the
Indian currency on bouts of strength as it doesn’t “see
speculation as being the only woe that the rupee faces,”
Singapore-based strategist Andy Ji said. “I don’t see the
current-account deficit narrowing any time soon, and concerns
remain with much below-trend growth.”  India’s  current-account  gap increased to an all-time high
4.8 percent of gross domestic product in the year ended March
31, official data show.  ANZ will also look to sell the rupee in the offshore market
when the three-month rupee contracts gain to around 60 per
dollar, according to today’s report.  The rupee will drop to 62 per dollar by end-2013, according
to Nomura Holdings Inc., the most accurate forecaster for the
currency in the last four quarters, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Second-ranked JPMorgan Chase & Co. shares that
forecast, while No. 3, Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce,
predicts 61.50.  Carry Trades  Carry traders, who borrow in a low-yield currency to buy
one with higher rates, lost 6 percent on rupee investments using
dollars since the start of June, the worst performance among 11
Asian currencies, after earning 0.8 percent this year through
May 31, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Global funds cut holdings of rupee debt by $1.1 billion
this month through July 5, following a record $5.4 billion
withdrawal in June, exchange data show.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards jumped 0.9 percent to
61.28 per dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Offshore non-deliverable contracts rose 0.9 percent to 61.40.
Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and
date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  