-- Russian Grain Harvest Seen Below Government Target After Drought
-- B y   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a
-- 2013-07-09T10:26:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/russian-grain-harvest-seen-below-government-target-after-drought.html
The grain crop in  Russia , projected
to be among this season’s five biggest wheat exporters, is set
to fall below a government goal after drought hurt plants in
some regions, according to the state weather agency.  The harvest may reach 90 million to 94 million metric tons
in the 2013-14 season begun July 1, Alexander Frolov, head of
the Federal Agency on Hydrometeorology and Environmental
Monitoring, said today at a government meeting near Moscow. That
compares with the Agriculture Ministry’s 95 million-ton target.  The projected crop would still exceed the five-year average
by about 6 million tons, according to Frolov. Drought reduced
last year’s grain and legume harvest by 25 percent to 70.9
million tons and killed plants on 1.9 percent of the sown area
so far this year, mostly in the Volga Federal District,
government statistics show.  “Russia’s southeastern part, first of all the Volga
Federal District and some parts of the Black Earth regions,
suffer from drought,” Frolov said. “Some locations had less
than 15 percent to 30 percent of the precipitation norm in June
and in the beginning of July.”  Agriculture in Russia is dependent on favorable weather
because technology is less advanced. Parts of the Volga
district, which accounted for about 21 percent of last year’s
national crop, are forecast to have rains in the next few days
that may reduce the effect of drought, Frolov said.  Russia  will ship  17 million tons of wheat in 2013-14, U.S.
Department of Agriculture estimates show, tying with  Australia 
and ranking behind the U.S.,  Canada  and the European Union. That
would exceed the prior period’s 11 million tons, according to
the USDA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow at 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  