-- S&P Request to Dismiss Ratings Suit Tentatively Rejected
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-07-09T20:34:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/s-p-request-to-dismiss-ratings-suit-tentatively-rejected.html
Standard & Poor’s  effort to have the
U.S. Justice Department’s fraud lawsuit over credit ratings on
mortgage-backed securities thrown out was tentatively rejected
by a federal judge.  U.S. District Judge  David Carter  issued a tentative
decision at a hearing yesterday in  Santa Ana , California. He
rejected the argument by S&P that public statements about its
ratings, which it described as objective and free of conflicts
of interest, were mere “puffery” or “couched in aspirational
terms” that couldn’t be the basis of a fraud claim.  “S&P stands accused of fashioning a unified public image
of trustworthiness backed by specific statements designed to
induce consumers to rely on the objectivity of its ratings,”
Carter said in the tentative ruling. “S&P’s statements were not
a ‘general, subjective claim’ about the avoidance of conflicts
of interest, but rather a promise.”  The judge said at the hearing that he would issue a final
ruling by July 15. The government will get an opportunity to
file an amended complaint if he changes his mind and grants
S&P’s request to dismiss the case, Carter said.  “I want to go back and really look at this again,” Carter
said.  Investment Banks  The U.S., accusing the company of being more concerned
about getting continuing business from investment banks that
paid it to rate securities than the accuracy of the ratings,
seeks as much as $5 billion in civil penalties.  Yesterday’s court hearing was the first over the Justice
Department’s claims that S&P defrauded investors with assurances
that its ratings were independent, objective and free of
conflicts of interest. S&P argued that reasonable investors
wouldn’t have relied on its “puffery” about credit ratings.  S&P’s generic statements about its business aspirations
weren’t material to the banks buying securities and didn’t
meaningfully change the mix of information available to
investors, John Keker, a lawyer for the  McGraw Hill Financial
Inc. (MHFI)  unit, said in court yesterday.  “They’re seeking to blame the entire financial crisis on
Standard & Poor’s,” Keker said. “Those generic statements
don’t make a scheme to defraud. For a scheme to defraud, there
has to be a specific intent to harm the victim, in this case the
investor.”  The Justice Department didn’t adequately support its
allegations that the company defrauded federally insured
financial institutions by knowingly understating the credit
risks of securities linked to residential mortgages, Keker said.  “I think the tentative misreads or mis-cites the complaint
in many places,” Keker said of Carter’s tentative decision.
“This opinion is very close to the arguments in the
government’s opposition.”  ‘Where’s Moody’s?’  S&P asked in its request to dismiss the case that Carter
take into account that the U.S. is pressing fraud claims
“despite the fact that other rating agencies issued ratings
identical to those of S&P on the same securities at issue, and
despite the fact that its views were consistent with those of
virtually every other market participant,” according to an
April 22 filing.  “Where’s Moody’s?” Carter asked Assistant U.S. Attorney
George Cardona, who represented the  Justice Department  at the
hearing.  Cardona said the government had developed evidence against
S&P in this case without indicating whether the U.S. had
investigated Moody’s Investors Service as well. Keker said the
only difference between S&P and Moody’s was that S&P had
downgraded the U.S. credit rating.  ‘Puffing’ Ratings  Cardona told the judge that S&P’s “puffing” about its
ratings being independent and objective was material because the
ratings were important in reassuring investors about the credit
quality of the securities they bought from investment banks.  The ratings weren’t independent and objective because S&P
let issuers influence its models and criteria, Cardona said.  Cardona and Keker declined to comment after the hearing on
the tentative ruling.  The U.S. sued New York-based S&P on Feb. 4, alleging its
credit ratings for residential mortgage-backed securities and
collateralized-debt obligations that included those securities,
contrary to what the company told investors, were based on a
desire to win business from issuers of the securities more than
on the credit risk of the investments.  A surge in defaults of high-risk mortgages packaged in
securities that had helped fuel the U.S. housing boom until 2007
led to the country’s longest recession since 1933. S&P rated
$2.8 trillion in residential mortgage-backed securities from
September 2004 through October 2007 and $1.2 trillion worth of
CDOs, according the government’s complaint.  Dismissal Request  In evaluating S&P’s request to dismiss the case, the judge
will assume that everything the government said in its complaint
is true. If the judge finds the government’s allegations lack
the legally required specificity, he may give the Justice
Department an opportunity to address the deficiencies in a
revised complaint.  The lawsuit was brought by U.S. Attorney Andre Birotte Jr.
in  Los Angeles  under the 1989 Financial Institutions Reform,
Recovery and Enforcement Act, a law passed after the savings and
loan crisis to allow the government to seek civil penalties for
losses of federally insured financial institutions caused by
fraud.  In its 119-page complaint, the Justice Department cited
meetings, messages and memos to support its claims.  S&P argued in its April 22 filing that it’s “ironic” that
the government seeks penalties for losses by the same banks,
 Bank of America Corp.  and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , that were creating and
selling the CDOs.  Fraudulent Intent  “The complaint charges S&P with intending to defraud these
financial institutions about the likely performance of their own
products,” the company said.  Banks create collateralized debt obligations by bundling
bonds or loans into securities of varying risk and return. They
pay ratings firms for the grades, which investors may use to
meet regulatory requirements.  The case is U.S. v. McGraw-Hill Cos., 13-cv-00779, U.S.
District Court, Central District of  California  (Santa Ana).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  