-- Saint Joseph’s University Sued for Bias by Accused Rapist
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2013-07-09T22:10:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/saint-joseph-s-university-sued-for-bias-by-accused-rapist.html
Saint Joseph’s University , a private
Catholic school in Philadelphia, was sued by a student suspended
for an alleged rape over claims its sexual-assault policies
virtually ensure that accused males will be found guilty.  The student, Brian Harris of Clifton Park,  New York , is
seeking more than $75,000 in damages in the complaint filed
yesterday in federal court in Philadelphia accusing the school
of negligence, defamation, intentional infliction of emotional
distress and violations of Title IX, the law that bars sex
discrimination at schools.  “SJU, in the manner in which it approaches the
investigation, adjudication, and appeal of allegations of sexual
misconduct and related claims made in connection to sexual
misconduct, creates an environment in which a male accused is so
fundamentally denied due process as to be virtually assured of a
finding of guilt,” Kenneth Dubrow, an attorney for Harris, said
in the complaint.  Title IX, known for guaranteeing women equal access to
sports programs, bars all forms of sex discrimination on campus.
Colleges across the country, under pressure for using antiquated
procedures to prevent and investigate rapes and other campus
sexual assaults, have been hit with federal complaints in recent
months for violating Title IX or the Clery Act, which requires
universities to report violent acts on campuses.  Alleged Victims  Alleged victims have filed complaints with the U.S.
Education Department against  Dartmouth College , Swarthmore
College and Occidental College, among others. It’s unclear how
many accused assailants have filed similar complaints alleging
bias, although experts say such an action is rare.  Title IX is typically cited by female students who say
their colleges aren’t doing enough to investigate rapes and
sexual assaults, creating an unsafe campus environment for
women, lawyers and victim’s rights advocates said. It’s unusual
for a man found responsible for sexual assault to claim he’s
been discriminated against under Title IX, said Susan Stuart, a
professor of education law at Valparaiso University Law School
in  Indiana , who has studied the statute.  “What I typically see are cases in which it’s not the
offender who’s suing under Title IX, it’s the individual who’s
been the alleged victim,” Stuart said in a telephone interview.
“This really is an odd sort of situation.”  Joseph Lunardi, a university spokesman, declined to comment
on the lawsuit.  Superficial, Biased  Saint Joseph’s allegedly conducted a cursory, superficial
and biased investigation of allegations against Harris and
failed to give him an opportunity to confront his accuser before
suspending him for a year in January, according to the
complaint.  Harris claims that he had consensual sex with a member of
the Saint Joseph’s girls’ soccer team in November during his
freshman year. Texts between the two led to a late-night tryst
at the girl’s dormitory on campus, where he spent the night. The
next day, Harris said, he was informed by a dorm manager that
there would be an investigation into the girl’s claim of sexual
misconduct, according to the filing.  Harris explained what occurred in an initial meeting with a
campus investigator two days later, providing the text messages
corroborating his version of the events, according to the
complaint. The investigator allegedly was abusive,
“unnecessarily comparing Harris to Jerry Sandusky,” the former
 Pennsylvania  State University assistant football coach convicted
last year of abusing boys, according to the filing.  Sexual Offenses  Saint Joseph’s, in the Wynnefield section of Philadelphia,
requires that allegations of sexual offenses are reported to the
Office of Public Safety and Security, which is then required to
conduct an investigation and prepare a report for the Student
Life Administrator.  Complaints of sexual offenses are resolved by an
administrative hearing officer or by the Community Standards
Board, a 17-person panel consisting of seven students, five
faculty members and five administrators, according to the
complaint. The accused isn’t permitted to be accompanied by
parents, counsel, or by any person other than a Community
Standards adviser during the hearing.  The accused is notified in writing after the standards
board reaches a decision and the result may be disclosed to
others including the Saint Joseph’s community, according to the
complaint.  Harris was found guilty after a Dec. 4 hearing and
suspended from the university. He was denied the opportunity to
confront his accuser despite evidence contradicting the
“baseless accusations,” his lawyers said.  Text Messages  In January, an appeals board found the text messages
critical to the investigation and remanded the matter to the
standards board, which later upheld its earlier finding of
guilt, according to the complaint. At no time did the university
contact police or other governmental authorities about the
incident, Harris said in the filing.  A “biased and one-sided” investigation process at Saint
Joseph’s deprives male students of educational opportunities on
the basis of gender, Harris’s attorney said in the complaint.  Men who have been found responsible for sexual assaults
often claim that they haven’t been given due process under the
law, said Laura Dunn, founder of SurvJustice, an advocacy group
for sexual assault victims. She said it was unusual for an
assailant to say that the reason for the lack of due process was
discrimination against men.  ‘Rare Outcome’  “Title IX is a tool that many women have been using to get
justice on campus,” she said in a telephone interview. “It’s
kind of bold to take that tool to try to overturn a case in
which a man receives consequences for sexual violence, which is
a pretty rare outcome.”  Harris claims he has suffered from having an improper
conviction on his school record, marring his ability to enroll
in another college and stigmatizing him with a finding of guilt,
according to the complaint.  The university’s handling of the matter was intended not
only to “deprive Harris of his good name and bring him into
scandal and disrepute amongst his neighbors and peers, but also
to limit Harris’s future education and employment prospects,”
Dubrow said in the filing.  It may be difficult for Harris and his attorney to
establish that the investigation was discriminatory, said
Stuart, the Valparaiso professor.  “I don’t see any factual allegations that males as a
general rule are being picked on,” she said. “The process
seems to be gender bias-free.”  The case is Harris v. Saint Joseph’s University, 13-cv-03937, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania
(Philadelphia).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  