-- Scene in D.C.: Michelle Obama Feeds Young Would-Be Chefs
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2013-07-09T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/scene-in-d-c-michelle-obama-feeds-young-would-be-chefs.html
“Now I actually like vegetables,”
said  Barack Obama  during yesterday’s  Kids’ State Dinner  at the
White House.  “When I was a kid, my family would just boil them,” the
president said. “They tasted horrible because they were all
mush. Nobody wanted to eat a pea or a Brussels sprout.”  The event, in its second year, is part of Michelle Obama’s
Let’s Move campaign to combat child obesity. It fed more than 50
children who won the Healthy Lunchtime Challenge, a recipe
contest sponsored by the food and cooking website Epicurious.  Their parents tagged along as did a few other adults like
White House assistant chef Sam Kass and Secretary of Agriculture
Tom Vilsack.  The luncheon is designed to resemble a state dinner, with a
receiving line, a seated meal in the East Room and
entertainment.  “This is about giving you the foundation to fly high and
dream big,” said the first lady, in a yellow sleeveless dress,
to the aspiring chefs, who ranged in age from 8 to 12. The 54
winners were selected from a pool of 1,300.  “It’s about eating healthy, but it’s also about working
hard in school,” she said. “Because my second question is, how
are your grades?”  Michelle Obama relaxed the state dinner etiquette for her
young guests: “It’s OK to eat with your fingers. The first lady
has said that it is OK.”  Winning Recipes  The luncheon consisted of some of the winning recipes:
zucchini corn bread, spring rolls, mini-vegetarian pizzas with
cauliflower crust, veggie barley salad, banana muffins, a fruit
bowl and strawberry-banana smoothies.  “This is my favorite day of the year,” said Kass, a
contest judge, before the lunch began. He recalled being a
youngster in the kitchen, learning to cook baked apple pancakes
for his mother.  Vilsack says he and his wife have tried to teach their sons
to make pies from scratch. “I like to use butter for the crust;
she likes to use lard.”  He said the recipe contest motivates young people to become
more aware of food issues and will make them “better
consumers.”  Olivia Beauchesne, 12, of New Hampshire, won for her
“Liv’s Curry Chicken Salad Sandwich.” The first lady “was
very nice. She said she was very proud of me.”  Full Dinner  Olivia said her next cooking challenge would be
experimenting with “cupcakes, and I’d like to do a full
dinner.”  Taddy Pettit, 10, of  Illinois , was a winner with his
“Black Bean Wrap with Jicama-Grilled Corn Salsa.” He started
cooking with his stepfather, Ryan Rogiers, who attended the
lunch. “I’m hoping for a professional tennis player,”
said the elder Pettit, about his son’s talents outside the
kitchen.  After the luncheon, the junior chefs were given a tour of
the White House garden, where the first lady grows her
vegetables.  (Stephanie Green is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  and  Richard Vines  on
dining,  Greg Evans  on TV.  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in  Washington  at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 