-- SEC Votes to Ease 80-Year-Old Ban on Private-Investment Ads
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-07-10T17:36:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/sec-set-to-lift-80-year-old-ban-on-advertising-by-hedge-funds.html
Hedge funds  and other companies
seeking private investments will be allowed to advertise
publicly for funding under a rule approved today by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  The rule, which passed by a 4-1 vote, is the first one
mandated by last year’s Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act to
be completed by the SEC. A deadline for the regulation set by
Congress lapsed more than a year ago.  The rule will ease 80-year-old advertising restrictions
intended to help ensure small investors aren’t lured into taking
inappropriate risks. Under the measure, startups and other small
companies would also be able to use advertising to raise
unlimited amounts of money.  “Given the explicit language of the JOBS Act as well as
the statutory deadline which passed last July, the commission
should act without any further delay,” SEC Chairman Mary Jo White said. “This does not mean, however, that the commission
should not take steps to pursue additional investor safeguards
if and where such measures become needed.”  The rule affects how companies raise money through  private
offerings , which are exempt from requirements to publicly report
financial statements. Private offers are restricted to investors
with a net worth of at least $1 million excluding their primary
residence, who are considered better positioned to take the
risks of investing with less information.  Changes ‘Paradigm’  “It changes the whole paradigm of who you can talk to,”
said Brian J. Lane, a former division director at the SEC and
now a partner at Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP in  Washington .
“Hedge funds will benefit because they have the most
restrictions on their ability to communicate more broadly about
different funds coming to market.”  Companies raised $899 billion through private offers last
year, compared with $228 billion through registered sales of
stock and $976 billion through sales of public debt, according
to the SEC. Firms raising capital through private offers decide
what information to share with investors.  “By allowing issuers to solicit to a broader group of
potential investors, the SEC has today showed its commitment to
democratizing the investing process and putting an end to
yesterday’s ’old boy’ investor networks,” said  Barry Silbert ,
founder and chief executive of SecondMarket Inc. a marketplace
for private shares.  Enforcement Actions  State securities regulators say private offers were the
most common product leading to enforcement actions in 2011. The
 North American Securities Administrators Association  protested
the SEC’s plan for lifting the advertising ban after it was
proposed in August. The state regulators said the SEC’s plan
failed to provide guidance to companies about appropriate
advertising and didn’t include any investor protections.  The rule proved controversial at the five-member
commission. Democratic Commissioner Luis A. Aguilar, who voted
against the change, said it leaves investors unprotected against
a greater risk of fraud.  “Without common-sense protections, general solicitation
will prove be a great boon to the fraudster,” Aguilar said in a
statement prepared for today’s meeting. “Experience tells us
that this will lead to economic disaster for many investors.”  Fellow Democratic Commissioner Elisse B. Walter voted for
the rule, saying the SEC will scrutinize how advertising is used
and will pursue additional investor protections in a separate
process.  Changes Recommended  An SEC advisory committee  recommended  in October that the
commission rewrite the proposal to include new investor
protections. Instead, the SEC lifted the advertising ban today
and said it would pursue new regulations through another public-comment process.  The committee said the SEC should restrict the number of
people eligible to invest by refining the definition of an
“accredited investor,” or those considered rich enough to
understand the risks and withstand an adverse outcome. About 7.4
percent of U.S. households meet the net-worth definition,
according to the SEC.  Investor advocates such as the  Consumer Federation of
America  expressed skepticism about whether the proposal will
ever be adopted.  “This is a poor beginning to Chair White’s term as head of
the agency, and it sends a disturbing message about the
commission’s likely priorities under her leadership,” said
 Barbara Roper , director of investor protection for the Consumer
Federation.  Two Methods  The SEC’s rule includes two methods for companies to verify
a person is qualified to participate, while giving them
flexibility to determine other ways. Companies can review
federal-tax documents to check the income of the purchaser or
get confirmation of a person’s income or wealth from a
registered broker,  investment adviser , licensed attorney or
certified public accountant.  The limit to sell only to accredited investors explains why
many hedge funds probably won’t respond by taking out print and
television ads seeking new investors, said David S. Guin, a
partner at Withers Bergman LLP whose clients include hedge
funds.  Instead, the rule may free up hedge-fund managers to
communicate more freely at conferences and to offer more
information about fund performance on their websites, Guin said
in a phone interview.  “You wouldn’t expect the type of person who is typically
sought as an investor to be investing off of an ad in a
newspaper or magazine,” Guin said.  Operating Companies  Operating companies and startups also will be able to
advertise for investors after the ban is lifted. They’ll benefit
because they’ll be able to reach “a much broader audience than
they would be able to with their own contacts,” Guin said.  In an effort to address questions about deception, the
commission approved, on a 3-2 vote, a proposal for new
regulations that would allow better tracking of private offers
and how advertising is used.  Republican SEC commissioners Troy A. Paredes and Daniel M. Gallagher said the proposal was unnecessary and would weigh down
the private market for securities with costly new rules.  “The proposal, if adopted, would undermine the JOBS Act
goal of spurring our economy and job creation,” Paredes said.  Under the proposal, companies raising money through
advertised private offers would be required to file a statement,
known as Form D, before and after the offer. Companies that
failed to comply with the form requirements would be
disqualified from conducting private offers for one year.  Form D data is used to evaluate the size of the private
market and the types of investors who participate. The SEC knows
some companies don’t file the required form but it can’t say
what percentage don’t comply, SEC Chief Economist Craig M. Lewis
said today.  The SEC also approved a rule that blocks felons and others
found have violated securities-laws in marketing private offers,
which are more lightly regulated than public offers of stock or
debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  