-- Shell Names Refining Chief Van Beurden to Succeed CEO Voser
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2013-07-09T15:52:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/shell-names-ben-van-beurden-to-succeed-peter-voser-as-ceo.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  unexpectedly
named refining boss Ben van Beurden to succeed Chief Executive
Officer Peter Voser as Europe’s largest oil company looks to
manage rising capital spending.  Van Beurden, who will take over in the New Year, has led
the company’s downstream unit, which refines crude and sells
products to consumers, since January and was previously head of
the chemicals business. When Voser announced his retirement in
May, Chief Financial Officer Simon Henry and U.S. head  Marvin Odum  were seen as front runners for the top job.  “This is going to be a bit of a surprise to the market, I
don’t think he’s that well known,” said  Jason Gammel , an oil
industry analyst at Macquarie Capital Europe Ltd. in London.
“The primary point on his resume is that he turned around the
chemicals unit when they had seriously considered shutting it.”  While Shell’s share price has outperformed peers during
Voser’s four-year tenure, van Beurden will have to grapple with
a rising capital budget as The Hague-based company tries to
boost oil and gas production. Shell aims to achieve 4 million
barrels a day of output as early as 2017, from 3.6 million in
the first quarter, and plans to invest more than $30 billion a
year in projects.  “The production target of 4 million barrels a day is
punchy, and van Beurden will do well to achieve it,” said Neill Morton, an analyst at Investec Securities Ltd. in  London .
“Other challenges include sorting out Shell’s somewhat messy
portfolio onshore U.S. and offshore  Australia , as well as
improving its under-performing refining operations.”  Chemical Degree  Shell rose 1.5 percent to 2,161 pence in London. Shares
have gained 1.9 percent this year.  Van Beurden, 55, joined Shell in 1983 and has worked in the
Netherlands,  Africa ,  Malaysia , the U.S. and the U.K. He is a
Dutch national with a degree in chemical engineering and married
with four children. He spent 10 years working in Shell’s
liquefied natural gas business.  The nomination and succession committee that appointed van
Beurden is led by Chairman Jorma Ollila, the former CEO of
mobile phone maker Nokia Oyj. Former Deutsche Bank AG CEO Josef Ackermann and Hans Wijers, previously CEO of Europe’s biggest
paintmaker Akzo Nobel NV, are also on the committee.  Henry, Shell’s CFO, and Odum, head of the U.S. business,
had been tipped by analysts at Macquarie and RBC Capital Markets
as possible successors to Voser, who announced his retirement in
May.  Peer Comparison  Under Voser, Shell outperformed most of its rivals among
the world’s five biggest oil companies. The 41 percent gain in
the share price compares with a 34 percent increase for  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and declines for European peers  BP Plc (BP/)  and  Total SA. (FP) 
Only  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  has done better, gaining 87 percent since
July 1, 2009, the day Voser started.  Profitable investments such as the $19 billion Pearl gas-to-liquids plant in Qatar have bolstered returns at Shell. The
company raised its dividend for the first time since 2009 last
year and increased it again for the first quarter.  “Ben has deep knowledge of the industry and proven
executive experience across a range of Shell businesses,”
Ollila said in a statement. “Ben will continue to drive and
further develop the strategic agenda that we have set out, to
generate competitive returns for our shareholders.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  