-- Shift Workers Face Higher Miscarriage Risk, Subfertility
-- B y   A n d r e a   G e r l i n
-- 2013-07-09T09:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/shift-workers-face-higher-miscarriage-risk-subfertility.html
Women who work irregular shifts
suffer more disrupted menstrual cycles, miscarriages and reduced
fertility, according to an analysis of data from previous
studies presented at a scientific meeting in  London .  Irregular hours are associated with a 33 percent greater
rate of menstrual disruption and an 80 percent higher rate of
subfertility than working regular hours, according to the report
to the  European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology 
today. Those who only worked nights didn’t face an increased
risk of menstrual disruption or difficulty conceiving, though
they did have more miscarriages.  “If our results are confirmed by other studies, there may
be implications for shift workers and their reproduction
plans,” one of the study authors, Linden Stocker, a clinical
research fellow and obstetrics and gynecology registrar at the
 University of Southampton , said in a statement.  The findings are based on pooled data from all studies
published on the subject from 1969 until January 2013. The
studies collectively looked at a total of 119,345 women.  The analysis showed an association between shift work and
negative outcomes such as miscarriages; it doesn’t prove that
shift work causes the negative outcomes, Stocker said.
Disruption of the circadian rhythms that affect the biological
function of “clock genes” may explain the link between shift
work and reproductive outcomes, she said.  The results should be interpreted cautiously, said  Stuart
Lavery , a consultant gynecologist at Hammersmith and Queen
 Charlotte ’s Hospitals and director of IVF Hammersmith in London.  “We can’t make any terribly firm conclusions from this
study,” Lavery said at a press conference in London. “In
attendance are several confounding factors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Gerlin in London at 
 agerlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  