-- Spain Sells 3.5 Billion Euros of 15-Year Bonds Through Banks
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y   a n d   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2013-07-09T14:54:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/spain-sells-3-5-billion-euros-of-15-year-bonds-through-banks.html
Spain sold 3.5 billion euros ($4.47
billion) of 15-year bonds through banks as Prime Minister
Mariano Rajoy bids to convince investors he can pull the economy
out of a six-year slump.  The nation sold the 5.15 percent securities maturing in
October 2028 to yield of 280 basis points over mid-rate swaps,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The sale was managed by
 Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) ,  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  CaixaBank (CABK) 
SA, Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank,  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN)  and Societe Generale SA.  “It’s actually quite a decent result and an encouraging
signal,” said  Michael Leister , an interest-rate strategist at
Commerzbank AG in  London . “To be fair, it’s the first ultra-long Spanish deal since 2011 so clearly this wasn’t going to be
an easy sale.”  Spain’s Treasury said in May it would consider selling 15-year bonds through banks as well as offering index-linked and
dollar-denominated debt after borrowing costs fell in response
to a European Central Bank pledge to defend the euro. Today’s
sale is the longest maturity that Spain has sold through banks
since November 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “This shows markets’ confidence in Spain and the political
stability of Spain,” Economy Minister Luis de Guindos told
reporters in Brussels. The country has now covered almost 70
percent of its funding program for this year, he said.  The International Monetary Fund said today it expected
Spain’s economy to stagnate next year after shrinking 1.6
percent in 2013. The IMF previously predicted growth of 0.7
percent this year.  Spanish officials led by Rajoy have said the economy is at
a turning point and will return to growth starting this quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net ;
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  