-- SPH REIT to Raise Up to $394 Million in Initial Public Offering
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2013-07-09T10:10:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/sph-reit-to-raise-up-to-394-million-in-initial-public-offering.html
Singapore Press Holdings Ltd. (SPH) , the
newspaper publisher that owns the Paragon mall along the city’s
shopping belt, is seeking to raise as much as S$504 million
($394 million) in an initial stock sale of its retail assets.  The real estate investment trust is offering 559.9 million
shares at between 85 Singapore cents to 90 Singapore cents,
according to a preliminary prospectus filed today with the city-state’s regulator. The offer includes an allotment of 251
million units to cornerstone investors including Great Eastern
Life Assurance Co. and Morgan Stanley Investment Management Co.,
according to the document.  SPH REIT plans to offer a yield of as much as 6 percent
based on fiscal 2014 projections for the two malls, which have a
combined value of S$3.07 billion, it said.  Singapore  Press said
in May it will hold about 70 percent of the REIT after it goes
public, and the proceeds will fund the group’s growth and a
special dividend.  “The manager will take an active role in managing and
enhancing SPH REIT’s properties,” SPH REIT said in the
prospectus, adding that it will “assess acquisition
opportunities in line with SPH REIT’s investment objective.”  There is an over-allotment option of 56 million units, it
said.  Singapore’s property trusts, Asia’s second-worst performers
this year, are well-positioned to weather an increase in
interest rates as they diversify their funding sources, said
 Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  The average debt
maturity of Singapore REITs has risen to four to five years from
three years, Rohit Mohindra, the head of real estate for
 Southeast Asia  at ANZ, said in an interview in Singapore on June
27.  Singapore’s FTSE Strait Times Real Estate Investment Trust
Index lost 5.1 percent this year, compared with the 0.4 percent
gain in the city’s benchmark  Straits Times Index. (FSSTI)   Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  is the sole global coordinator for
the Singapore Press REIT offer, and the underwriters are  DBS
Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS)  and Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  