-- Suntory Beverage to Study Targets With $4.9 Billion for Deals
-- B y   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i ,   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a   a n d   A i k a   N a n a o
-- 2013-07-09T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/suntory-beverage-to-study-targets-with-4-9-billion-for-deals.html
Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd. (2587)  will
start internal discussion on acquisition targets as early as
September as it prepares to spend up to 500 billion yen ($4.9
billion) after Asia’s biggest initial public offering this year.  The company’s five-member mergers-and-acquisitions team,
led by a former  Bank of America Corp.  banker, will begin
discussing more than 100 targets with its board members,
Nobuhiro Torii, the company’s chief executive officer and
president, said in an interview in Tokyo yesterday.  “The specific areas we are looking for is  emerging
markets ,” Torii said. “One important thing we have to look at
is the capability of distribution or distribution platforms.
Without reaching points of sale, we cannot deliver our
products.”  Suntory Beverage, which started trading on July 3 after
raising almost $4 billion in its public offering,  gained  3.1
percent to 3,375 yen in Tokyo trading yesterday. That’s 8.9
percent higher than the IPO price of 3,100 yen.  The drinks and food unit of Suntory Holdings Ltd. is
targeting 200 billion yen of  operating profit  by 2020, more than
triple the current level, he said. Torii and other executives at
the company plan to buy the company’s shares this year, the 47-year-old executive said.  Share Purchase  “I already finished the application for the cumulative
stock investment program, buying as many  shares  as possible
periodically with a fixed amount of money,” Torii said. “I
told our executives we should purchase the shares even little by
little. We have to manage the  company  with the share price in
mind.”  The Tokyo-based company in March hired Haruhisa Inada, a
former co-head of the investment banking division at Merrill
Lynch Japan Securities Co., a unit of Bank of America, to lead
the M&A team it set up in January, Torii said.  The seller of Orangina soda and Boss coffee plans to double
sales to 2 trillion yen by 2020 partly through acquisitions.  Closely held Suntory Holdings bought France-based Orangina
Schweppes Group for 300 billion yen in 2009 and paid 600 million
euros in the same year for New Zealand’s Frucor Beverages Group
Ltd.  Suntory Beverage  expects  sales to rise 14 percent to 1.13
trillion yen for the year ending December. Net income will
probably rise 50 percent to 35 billion yen.  Suntory priced its IPO near the lower end of its range of
3,000-3,800 yen as market volatility curbed demand for new
offerings. The listing on the  Tokyo  Stock Exchange was the
country’s biggest share sale since Japan Airlines Co.’s IPO
raised 663 billion yen in September last year.  Actor Bill Murray’s character in the 2003 film “Lost in
Translation” introduced the name to international filmgoers
with the line, “For relaxing times, make it Suntory time.”
Suntory Holdings, which sells whiskey and beer,  holds  about 60
percent of the listed unit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuki Yamaguchi in Tokyo at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net ;
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net 
Aika Nanao in Tokyo at 
 ananao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  