-- Swipe-Fee Battle Moves to States as U.S. Banks Fight Surcharges
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2013-07-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/swipe-fee-battle-moves-to-states-as-u-s-banks-fight-surcharges.html
Banks and payment networks are
pressing state lawmakers to bar retailers from charging
customers more to pay with credit cards than with debit cards or
cash.  The laws’ supporters say they are trying to protect
consumers from unfair costs when they make purchases with credit
cards.  Utah  has already passed a law banning such surcharges,
and  New Jersey  may follow suit. In all, about 20 state
legislatures are weighing legislation related to payment cards,
according to the  American Bankers Association .  The move for state laws is an extension of a decade-long
fight between retailers including  Home Depot Inc. (HD) ,  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Target Corp. (TGT)  and members of the payments
industry, including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest U.S.
credit-card lender, and  Visa Inc. (V)  and  Mastercard Inc. (MA) , the
largest networks, over “swipe” fees for debit and credit
cards. Because retailers generally have to pay more to banks
when their customers use credit cards than when they buy with
debit cards, the banks are trying to prevent stores from
steering buyers to debit transactions.  At stake is an estimated $40 billion that banks take in
each year from credit-card swipe fees, according to Madeline
Aufseeser, a senior analyst with Boston-based consultancy Aite
Group LLC.  Banking groups say the push for state laws isn’t a
coordinated campaign by the industry. Instead, Trish Wexler, a
spokeswoman for the Electronic Payments Coalition, a trade group
for card issuers and networks, describes it as an “organic”
process of bills arising in states at the same time.  Class-Action Settlement  State lawmakers are responding to a class-action settlement
that went into effect in January that gives retailers more
flexibility to impose surcharges for using different types of
cards, Wexler said in an interview before she left her position
at the coalition on June 27.  “Legislators heard about it from consumers, read about the
settlement, and pushed it,” she said.  Retailers won an earlier round of the battle with card
issuers when the 2010 Dodd-Frank law put a cap on debit-card
fees. The  Federal Reserve  set that cap at about 24 cents,
costing banks and processors $8 billion per year, Aufseeser
estimated.  Card companies successfully fought off limits on  credit-card  fees, in part by arguing that they take on credit risk when
issuing them.  Issuers earn 1 to 3 percent of the purchase price when a
customer uses a credit card, depending on agreements with
retailers. Issuers channel some of those proceeds back to
customers in the form of reward programs and other incentives.  Consumer Choice  Consumer groups, such as  U.S. Public Interest Research
Group , an umbrella organization of state-level consumer
advocates, side with the retailers in opposing the state laws.
They argue that consumers and retailers should have more choice,
and note that merchants who minimize payment costs can pass the
savings on to consumers.  “The banks are clearly hard at work trying to deny the
merchants the leverage to keep swipe fees from rising or reduce
them,”  Ed Mierzwinski , director of the group’s consumer program
in  Washington , said in an interview.  The settlement of a class-action antitrust lawsuit against
Visa, Mastercard and a group of banks went into effect at the
end of January, opening the door to surcharging in states that
don’t already bar it. State legislators sponsoring anti-surcharge proposals say their goal is to protect consumers.  Melissa Cassar, a spokeswoman for Visa, said the company
has “no position to share” on the subject of surcharges.
Spokesmen at Mastercard didn’t respond to requests for comment.  ‘Back East’  In Utah, the state bankers association, which includes
JPMorgan,  American Express (AXP)  Co. and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , cited the
class-action settlement in promoting the law. In a Feb. 19
hearing, Howard Headlee, the president of the Utah Bankers
Association, told state senators that pricing for consumers is
“something that should be decided not by a handful of attorneys
in a room back East but by a legislative body.”  Spokesmen for the companies -- Molly Faust of American
Express,  Betty Riess  of Bank of America,  Jason Menke  of Wells
Fargo and Steve O’Halloran of JPMorgan -- declined to comment.  Under federal law, retailers can still offer discounts for
debit or cash even if state law prohibits surcharges. Gas
stations, for example, have long posted two retail prices, one
for cash and one for credit.  The distinction between discounts and surcharges is more
than semantics. Behavioral studies show that consumers react
more forcefully to the threat of a penalty than the offer of a
discount, said Adam Levitin, a law professor at  Georgetown
University  who has studied payment networks.  Eschewing ‘Surcharges’  “Research shows that consumers have a much stronger
reaction to ‘surcharges,’ and are less likely to use credit
cards if they understand that they will have to pay more,”
Levitin said in an e-mail. “Credit-card companies, aware of
this effect, have historically insisted that any price
difference be labeled as a ‘discount.’”  Retailers have argued that discounts and surcharges are
effectively the same thing. “I have a hard time getting my head
around why giving a discount is okay, but surcharging is
illegal,” said  David Davis , president of the Utah Retail
Merchants Association, which opposed the state’s anti-surcharge
law.  In New Jersey, retailers fought back when legislation
banning surcharges arose, and passed the Senate. It is awaiting
action in the state’s other chamber, the General Assembly.  John Holub, president of the New Jersey Retail Merchants
Association, said his group opposed the bill on the grounds that
“there is zero transparency, the banks and the processors
charge these huge fees, and we can do nothing about it.”  When he introduced the bill in February, Nicholas Sacco, a
senator in the New Jersey legislature, cast the legislation as a
consumer-protection measure: “Shoppers should not be hit with
unfair surcharges based on how they want to pay.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  