-- Cable Said to Outline Plan for U.K. Royal Mail Stock Sale
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-07-10T07:52:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/u-k-said-to-announce-public-offering-of-royal-mail-tomorrow.html
U.K. Business Secretary Vince Cable
will today announce plans for the sale of shares in state-owned
 Royal Mail  Group Ltd., with 10 percent of the stock to be given
to staff, according to a person familiar with the proposals.  Cable will set out the plans to Parliament this afternoon,
said the person, who declined to be identified because the sale
isn’t public yet. The shares for staff will be offered in two
slices, half immediately and half at a later date. Ministers
have always said their preferred option is an initial sale
before March.  The business secretary’s statement won’t give details of
the timings of the sale or the amount of money the government
predicts it will raise, according to a second person familiar
with the plans.  “This is a very, very large company, a big business
turning over 9 billion pounds and it’s the only big business
that hasn’t got any access to private capital,” business
minister, Michael Fallon, told BBC Radio today. “The best
chance of a successful future for Royal Mail is if it can act
like any normal commercial company.”  The sale of Royal Mail will be the largest privatization in
Britain since former Prime Minister  John Major  broke up the
country’s railway in the 1990s. The 360-year-old company, one of
the nation’s biggest employers with about 159,000 staff, has
sought to adapt its letter-focused network to more lucrative
package delivery in the face of competition from TNT NV of the
Netherlands and  Deutsche Post AG (DPW) ’s DHL Express unit.  ‘Fire Sale’  Royal Mail’s operating profit more than doubled in the year
to March 31 to 403 million pounds ($600 million) as growth in
Internet shopping spurred parcel deliveries. While sales gained
5 percent to 9.28 billion pounds, parcel revenue rose 9 percent.  The opposition Labour Party’s business spokesman, Chuka Umunna, said the government is privatizing Royal Mail to help
cut the budget deficit.  “We saw some fantastic profits from the Royal Mail over
the last 12 months,” Umunna told BBC Radio. “We shouldn’t be
selling off national treasured institutions on the cheap in some
kind of fire sale, which is essentially to help get the
government out of the economic hole that it has created.”  The business department appointed  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  as joint global coordinators and joint bookrunners on
May 29,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  as joint bookrunner and sponsor, and  Bank
of America (BAC)  Merrill Lynch as joint bookrunner for the deal.  Investec Plc (INVP) ,  Nomura Holdings Inc. (NMR)  and Royal Bank of Canada
will take junior roles in the sale. Total fees if the deal goes
ahead will be in the region of 10 to 15 million pounds, a person
familiar with the plans said July 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net  or
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  