-- U.K. Stocks Advance to a Five-Week High as Miners Climb
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2013-07-09T16:03:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/u-k-stocks-advance-to-a-five-week-high-as-miners-climb.html
U.K. stocks  advanced to a five-week
high as a rally in mining companies and optimism that central
banks will support growth outweighed a report showing that
British manufacturing unexpectedly contracted.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Rio Tinto Group led commodity
companies higher after Alcoa Inc., the largest U.S. aluminum
producer, reiterated its estimate that global demand for the
metal will rise.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  climbed as
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. advised buying the shares. Marks &
Spencer Group Plc slid 1.4 percent after reporting that general-merchandise sales fell for the eighth consecutive quarter.  The  FTSE 100 (UKX)  added 63.01 points, or 1 percent, to 6,513.08
at the close in London, extending yesterday’s 1.2 percent gain.
The gauge rallied 2.6 percent last week, its second-largest
increase this year, as the Bank of England and the European
Central Bank pledged to keep  interest rates  low for the
foreseeable future. The FTSE All-Share Index also jumped 1
percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index climbed 0.6 percent.  “What’s interesting about Alcoa is that it is a company
that straddles several businesses, and can give you an outlook
for sectors from automobiles to miners to defense,” said
Stephane Ekolo, chief European strategist at Market Securities
in  London , in a phone interview. “The fact the BOE and the ECB
have guided to low interest rates has reassured the market.”  The number of shares changing hands on FTSE 100-listed
companies was 7.3 percent lower than the average of the past 30
days, data compiled by Bloomberg shows.  U.K. Manufacturing  U.K.  manufacturing  unexpectedly shrank in May as the
production of pharmaceuticals and metals dropped, casting doubt
on the strength of the recovery in the second quarter.  Factory output fell 0.8 percent from April, the Office for
National Statistics said. The  median forecast  of 25 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey had called for a 0.4 percent
increase. Total industrial production was unchanged, because of
higher oil-and-gas production.  BHP Billiton added 2.4 percent to 1,729.5 pence, while Rio
Tinto advanced 2.5 percent to 2,736.5 pence.  Vedanta Resources
Plc (VED) , the metals producer controlled by billionaire Anil Agarwal,
jumped 8.5 percent to 1,094 pence.  Alcoa reported profit and sales that beat analysts’
estimates following a better-than-expected performance at its
engineered-products business, the unit that supplies components
to aerospace and power companies.  Alcoa  repeated its estimate
that demand for aluminum will rise this year by 7 percent
globally and by 11 percent in  China .  A report showed that producer prices fell 2.7 percent in
China, the world’s largest consumer of metals.  RBS Rallies  RBS rose 5.4 percent to 304.4 pence, the second-best
performance on the FTSE 100. Goldman Sachs raised its
recommendation on the state-owned bank to buy from neutral,
saying a split of RBS would allow the bank to focus on
profitable operations while accelerating its privatization.  Marks & Spencer (MKS)  dropped 1.4 percent to 453.2 pence.
Clothing sales at U.K. stores open at least a year fell 1.6
percent in the 13 weeks ended June 29, the London-based retailer
said. That compared with the median estimate of 12 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg for a 1 percent decline. Sales in the food
division climbed 1.8 percent on the same basis, in line with the
median analyst estimate.  Weir Group Plc (WEIR)  rose 2.8 percent to 2,162 pence. Morgan
Stanley raised its recommendation on the engineering-solutions
company to equal weight, or hold, from underweight. The
brokerage said Weir has exceeded its estimates in oil and gas.  Aveva Group Plc (AVV)  jumped 14 percent to 2,578 pence, its
largest gain since October 2008. The provider of information-technology systems said that demand has grown in Europe, the
Middle East,  Africa  and Asia. In the Americas, Aveva said,
“there are early signs that business activity is beginning to
pick up in  Brazil .”  Smiths News Plc (NWS)  surged 7.7 percent to 168 pence, its
largest advance since April 24, 2012. The U.K. distributor of
newspapers and magazines announced two contract extensions worth
about 322 million pounds ($478 million) a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  