-- U.S. Balancing Egypt Security Interests Against Aid Law
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2013-07-09T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/u-s-balancing-egypt-security-interests-against-aid-law.html
The Obama administration is seeking
to reconcile national-security interests in Egypt against a law
that requires the U.S. to end aid to countries where governments
have been toppled by military coups.  As Republican and Democratic lawmakers called on the
administration to obey that law, White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said yesterday the U.S. won’t rush a decision about
whether the Egyptian military’s ouster of President Mohamed Mursi constituted a coup.  “I would say that we are going to take the time necessary
to review what has taken place,” Carney said. “This is a
complex situation, and it is not in our interests to move
unnecessarily quickly in making a determination like that
because we need to be mindful of our objective here -- which is
to assist the Egyptian people in their transition to democracy
and to remain faithful to our national security interests.”  At the State Department, spokeswoman Jennifer Psaki said
that providing aid “doesn’t mean we have supported, even prior
to this, every action taken by the government of  Egypt , but
there are security interests in the region, there are security
interests for the  United States .”  Egypt has been a linchpin of U.S. security policy in the
 Middle East , offering American submarines and military vessels
expedited passage through the  Suez Canal , and honoring a peace
agreement with  Israel  since 1979. Of the $1.55 billion in U.S.
aid President  Barack Obama  allocated for Egypt in his fiscal
2014 budget request, $1.3 billion goes to the military.  Complex, Difficult  “I’ll be blunt, this is an incredibly complex and
difficult situation,” Carney told reporters at his daily
briefing at the White House. He said the administration is
consulting with Congress, reviewing its legal obligations and
considering its policy objectives.  Arizona  Republican Senator  John McCain  questioned the
administration’s reluctance to act more quickly to suspend aid.
“It is difficult for me to conclude that what happened was
anything other than a coup in which the military played a
decisive role,” McCain said in a statement yesterday.  “Current U.S. law is very clear about the implications for
our foreign assistance in the aftermath of a military coup
against an elected government,” McCain said. “I do not want to
suspend our critical assistance to Egypt, but I believe that is
the right thing to do at this time.”  McCain’s comments followed a similar statement on July 3 by
Vermont Democratic Senator  Patrick Leahy , who heads the
appropriations subcommittee for the State Department and foreign
operations.  Army Respected  McCain and Leahy may be in the minority, said  Jon Alterman ,
director of the Middle East program at the Center for Strategic
and International Studies, a Washington policy group. “You’re
seeing increasing signs that Congress does not want” the
administration “to follow the letter” of the law, he said.  House Speaker John Boehner yesterday said Egypt’s military
is “one of the most respected institutions in the country” and
“on behalf of their citizens did what they had to do in terms
of replacing the elected president.”  Boehner, an  Ohio Republican , declined to comment
specifically on whether aid should be suspended, saying
“anything further will await for consultations with the
administration on how we should move ahead.”  One reason for the Obama administration’s hesitation to say
whether Egypt experienced a coup is that “the law is not
drafted for situations like this,” Alterman said.  The military’s action in Egypt appears to have had broad
public support, Alterman said, and Mursi may not have left
office any other way.  Striking Balance  The U.S. will need to have a “very frank conversation”
with Egypt’s military about actions that would make it hard to
sustain their current relationship, “but you don’t want a meat-cleaver approach with an automatic cutoff of aid,” Alterman
said. “What the White House needs to do is take an assessment
of U.S. interests and values and find a way to strike a
relationship that reflects the balance of both.”  U.S. officials continued to reach out to Egypt’s military
officials and political parties, including the Muslim
Brotherhood, Psaki said.  Security forces clashed with Mursi supporters yesterday,
leaving at least 51 dead in violence that prompted calls by the
Brotherhood’s political arm for Egyptians to “rise up against
those who want to steal their revolution with tanks and armored
vehicles.”  The Brotherhood said the shoot-out outside a Cairo barracks
was unprovoked. The army said protesters tried to storm the
barracks and troops came under fire from attackers.  Political Process  Psaki said the administration is urging the Muslim
Brotherhood “to engage in the political process and to support
the process to full civilian government through elections.” The
U.S. isn’t taking sides in the dispute, she said.  Carney called on the military “to use maximum restraint”
and condemned “the explicit calls to violence made by the
Muslim Brotherhood.”  Psaki said U.S. officials had received no reports of
Mursi’s whereabouts or his condition since July 3, when he was
arrested.  At both the White House and State Department, the
administration said public calls for Mursi to step down were one
reason for its reluctance to call the military takeover a coup.  While Obama has a “deep concern” about the military
removing Mursi from power and suspending the constitution,
Carney said “it is also important to acknowledge that tens of
millions of Egyptians have legitimate grievances with President
Mursi’s undemocratic form of governance and they do not believe
that this was a coup.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  