-- U.S. 3-Year Note Sale Draws Most Indirect Bids Since September
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2013-07-09T23:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/u-s-3-year-note-sale-draws-most-indirect-bids-since-september.html
Indirect bidders, an investor class
that includes foreign central banks, bought their biggest share
since September of a Treasury three-year note auction amid
strong demand.  The $32 billion offering yesterday drew the highest  yield 
since June 2011, 0.719 percent, more than double the 0.354
percent at the May 28 auction. Yields have climbed on bets the
 U.S. economy  is strong enough to allow Fed Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  and policy makers to start trimming the asset buying
that has helped cap borrowing costs.  “After the selloff we’ve seen, the short end of the
Treasury curve offers attractive value on an absolute and global
basis, which should keep a bid in the front end of the Treasury
curve,” said  Adrian Miller , director of fixed-income strategies
at GMP Securities LLC in New York. “Though tapering is
expected, a big change in rates is not in the foreseeable
future, and inflation expectations are still low.”  The  yield  on the current three-year note was little changed
at 0.68 percent at 5 p.m. in New York yesterday, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader Prices. The benchmark  10-year note  yielded
2.63 percent.  Treasury yields have surged over the past six weeks amid
speculation the central bank is preparing to reduce debt
purchases. Bernanke, who will speak today on economic policy at
a conference in  Boston , told reporters June 19 after a two-day
policy meeting the Fed may begin to slow its $85 billion in
monthly bond purchases this year. Minutes of the meeting will be
released today.  Bidder Participation  At yesterday’s auction, indirect bidders purchased 35.6
percent of the notes, compared with 33.1 percent at the June
sale and an average of 26.2 percent at the past 10 offerings.  The  bid-to-cover  ratio, which gauges demand by comparing
total bids with the amount of securities offered, was 3.35,
versus 2.95 at the previous auction and the highest since May.  Direct bidders , non-primary-dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 13 percent of
the notes at the sale, up from June’s 8.4 percent, which was the
lowest since August, and compared with an average of 19.9
percent at the previous 10 auctions.  Primary dealers bought 51.5 percent of the notes, the
lowest share since January  “We’ve stabilized at these levels, and now people are
starting to see value,” Tom Simons, an economist in  New York  at
Jefferies LLC, one of 21 primary dealers that are obliged to bid
in U.S. debt auctions, said before the sale. “We’ve had a
pretty dramatic move in yield since the last auction.”  Notes’ Loss  Treasury three-year notes have lost 0.5 percent this year,
compared with a return of 0.6 percent in 2012, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch indexes. The broader Treasuries market
has declined 3.1 percent this year after gaining 2.2 percent
last year.  Investors have bid $2.95 for each dollar of the $1.1
trillion in U.S. government notes and bonds sold at auction this
year, compared with a record high $3.15 for all of last year,
according to Treasury data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Treasury Department is selling $66 billion in notes and
bonds this week, including $21 billion of 10-year securities
today and $13 billion of 30-year debt tomorrow.  “It’s critical for the rest of the week’s auctions to go
well in order to ensure that there is still confidence at these
levels,” said Dan Heckman, fixed-income strategist at U.S. Bank
Wealth Management, which manages $110 billion. “Rates have
spiked very fast, and even as they prepare to step back some the
Fed wants to make sure that markets remain orderly.”  The sales this week will raise $5.6 billion of new cash, as
maturing securities held by the public total $60.4 billion,
according to the Treasury.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  