-- U.S. Company Credit Swaps Fall; GE Issues $3.5 Billion of Bonds
-- B y   S c o t t   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-07-09T21:06:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/u-s-company-credit-swaps-fall-as-alcoa-boosts-earnings-optimism.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk
fell to the lowest level in a month amid optimism companies will
report better-than-forecast earnings. A unit of General Electric
Co. issued $3.5 billion in bonds in three parts.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, decreased
1.7 basis points to a mid-price of 81.6 basis points at 5:02
p.m. in  New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s the lowest closing level since June 7.  Investors are looking to companies’ second-quarter earnings
performance to determine their ability to repay debt
obligations.  Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the first member of the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  to report quarterly results, said yesterday
that profit excluding expenses related to output cuts and legal
settlements was 7 cents a share, beating the 6-cent average of
15 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “The majority of companies likely are going to beat
expectations, but companies have been lowering forecasts,”
Brian Reynolds, chief market strategist for brokerage firm
Rosenblatt Securities Inc. in New York, said in a telephone
interview. “Earnings-per-share should beat those expectations
even though you won’t have as good a revenue picture.”  Earnings at companies listed on the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index rose 1.8 percent last quarter, down from a projection of
8.3 percent six months ago, according to more than 11,000
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Lower expectations
helped about 73 percent of the companies in the benchmark
measure exceed forecasts by an average of 5.1 percent for the
first three months of the year, Bloomberg data show.  GE Bonds  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  GE Capital Corp. issued $900 million of floating-rate debt
maturing in 2015 to yield 38 basis points more than the London
interbank offered rate and $1.35 billion of floaters due in 2016
at a relative yield of 65 basis points, Bloomberg data show. It
also sold $1.25 billion of 1.5 percent, three-year notes to
yield 83 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries.  FOMC Minutes  Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE sold $1.25 billion of
floating-rate, two-year notes on Jan. 7 to yield 38 basis points
more than Libor, Bloomberg data show.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index fell 8.1 basis points to 401.7 basis points,
Bloomberg prices show.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  will release minutes from
its June meeting tomorrow, giving investors insight into its
future plans for monetary policy.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who will speak
tomorrow, said last month that policy makers may “moderate”
their stimulus if the economy shows signs of improvement. The
central bank has been making $85 billion in monthly bond
purchases, known as quantitative easing.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt fell 2.4 basis points to 554.3 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and less than BBB- at S&P.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Harrison in New York at 
 sharrison52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  