-- U.S. Boosts Bank Capital Demands Above Global Standards
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n   a n d   Y a l m a n   O n a r a n
-- 2013-07-09T17:02:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/u-s-banks-may-face-two-ratios-as-fdic-sets-capital-vote.html
Capital standards at the biggest U.S.
lenders would rise to 5 percent of assets for parent companies
and 6 percent for their banking units under a proposal by
regulators to bolster financial firms.  Leverage ratios would be pegged 2 percentage points above
the 3 percent international minimum for holding companies, the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency said today in a
 statement . Capital at U.S.-backed deposit and lending units must
be twice the world standard at 6 percent, the OCC said.  The U.S. plan goes beyond rules approved by international
regulators to prevent a repeat of the 2008 crisis that almost
destroyed the financial system. The changes would make lenders
fund more assets with capital that can absorb  losses  instead of
using borrowed money. Bankers say this could trigger asset sales
and pinch profit, and some may slow dividends and buybacks.  “U.S. regulators have upped the ante on bank capital,
making the leverage ratio a significant constraint for large
banks here and daring the rest of the world to match,” said
Frederick Cannon, director of research at Keefe, Bruyette and
Woods Inc.  The OCC and Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. adopted the
3 percent benchmark today set by the 27-nation Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision in 2010. The  Federal Reserve  gave its
approval last week. The U.S. agencies also proposed boosting the
domestic ratio, giving banks until Jan. 1, 2018 to comply.  Who’s Affected  The changes would affect the eight U.S. institutions
already tagged as globally important, the  Federal Reserve  and
FDIC said. The Financial Stability Board, a group of
international central bankers that coordinates regulation,
identified them as JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC) , Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,
 Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  State Street Corp. (STT)  and Bank of  New York  Mellon
Corp.  Based on the largest banks’ September data, the holding
companies fell short of the new leverage requirement by
$63 billion, FDIC staff said in a meeting with reporters today.
Insured lending units would need $89 billion more in capital.
All the firms can fill their gaps by retaining earnings and
without selling new stock, the regulators said today.  Lenders in the KBW Bank Index were little changed at noon 
in New York, with none of the 24 companies moving more than
1.5 percent up or down. Spokesmen for the lenders declined to
comment or didn’t immediately respond to inquiries.  Profit Impact  Firms that miss the target face limits on bonuses and
dividends. Bankers have resisted new measures, saying that
lending might be impeded and that changes put in place after the
financial crisis should be given time to work.  “If the regulatory pendulum swings too far in the opposite
direction, it will stunt the American economy just as it is
starting to improve,” said  Rob Nichols , president of the
Financial Services Forum, a lobbying group for the largest
financial institutions. “We urge regulators to be mindful of
the fact that ever-higher  capital requirements , while a
critically important element of safety and soundness, can become
prohibitive and actually lead to reduced capability to lend.”  The new Basel leverage ratio expands what gets counted as
assets and thus intensifies the demand for capital. It includes
more of the derivatives contracts that are kept off balance
sheet under accounting rules and recognizes unused credit lines
granted to companies and consumers.  Falling Behind  The dual ratios in the U.S. plan may help some lenders
comply, since five of the six largest U.S. banks, including No.
1-ranked  JPMorgan (JPM) , would fall under a 6 percent level at the
holding company level, according to estimates by KBW last month.
Only Wells Fargo and Bank of America would meet the 5 percent
holding company requirement, according to KBW estimates. KBW
didn’t say how they would fare under a separate ratio for the
banking units.  “The higher requirement for bank subsidiaries does have
significance for the shareholders of their parent companies,”
Cannon said. The units would have to retain earnings at least
temporarily to comply, which would prevent the holding company
from distributing dividends since most profit comes from those
units, he said.  JPMorgan Chase NA, the insured depositary arm of JPMorgan,
held $70 trillion of the lender’s total $71 trillion notional
value derivatives contracts at the end of March, according to
the latest OCC data.  Citibank NA  held all $58 trillion of
Citigroup contracts. Bank of America’s lending unit
held $45 trillion of the firm’s $61 trillion.  Morgan Stanley  Morgan Stanley Bank NA had just $3 trillion of the firm’s
$47 trillion total. Holding the bulk at the parent, with its
lower capital requirement, might help Morgan Stanley since it
has the lowest Basel leverage ratio among the top U.S. banks,
according to six analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Those
range from 3.6 percent to 4.6 percent.  The leverage ratio measures capital as a flat percentage of
assets, eschewing formulas that let banks hold less capital for
assets deemed less risky. While the Federal Reserve adopted the
international standard last week, Fed Governor  Daniel Tarullo 
said 3 percent was too low.  “A 3 percent minimum supplementary leverage ratio would
not have appreciably mitigated the growth in leverage among
these organizations in the years preceding the recent crisis,”
FDIC Chairman  Martin Gruenberg  said today.  Risk Weighting  To guarantee against failures in another crisis, “the
amount of equity that they hold relative to total assets has to
be a lot higher than 3 percent,” said Marc Jarsulic, chief
economist at nonprofit advocacy group Better Markets, adding
that even a moderate increase will help. “It’ll be an
improvement, but it’ll still be inadequate to ensure the
stability of the large bank holding companies.”  The debate revolves around the Basel committee’s 2010
revision of how minimum capital levels are set for the  world’s
lenders , known as Basel III. The panel includes central bankers
and regulators from some of the biggest economies, and each
nation must enact local laws to carry out the plan.  In addition to bolstering the leverage ratio, Basel III
strengthened risk-weighting formulas that tie the amount of
capital to the level of danger in a bank’s holdings. The panel
set this capital threshold at 7 percent of risk-weighted assets.  The process allows large lenders to calculate the
likelihood of losses using their own formulas, and thus how much
capital they need. As the models became more complex and harder
to understand, regulators such as former FDIC Chairman  Sheila Bair  questioned their credibility.  ‘Meaningful Reform’  Bair pushed Basel to add the leverage ratio, a simpler and
more transparent gauge that measures capital as a simple
percentage of assets regardless of the risk. FDIC Vice Chairman
 Thomas Hoenig  has advocated a 10 percent ratio, and said today
before his solitary “no” vote on Basel that its risk weighting
is “unduly difficult.”  “This is real, meaningful reform of the kind the public
has a right to expect after suffering through the worst
financial crisis since the Great Depression,” Bair said in an
e-mailed statement. “This proposal also sends a strong signal
to European regulators who have dragged their feet.”  Bundesbank Vice President Sabine Lautenschlaeger has said
the leverage ratio shouldn’t be the main gauge because it
doesn’t demand more capital to back the more loss-prone
investments, and thus can give bankers “unhealthy incentives”
to take on more risk.  Higher Ante  Hitting the ratio targets would be easier if safer holdings
such as cash and government debt were excluded from the tally of
assets. Bankers say this would be fair since those holdings
aren’t likely to sour and have less need for a backstop. Today’s
proposal didn’t grant such an exclusion.  Without it, Morgan Stanley and  BNY Mellon  have the lowest
ratios of capital to assets, Goldman Sachs analysts estimated in
a report last month. The industry has been lobbying for the
exclusions and may renew efforts to narrow the definition of
assets before the rule becomes final.  Getting rid of assets is another way banks can improve
their ratios, said Ernest Patrikis, a former Federal Reserve
Bank of New York general counsel and now partner at White & Case
LLP. Bank of America, the second-largest U.S. lender by assets
after New York-based JPMorgan, has sold more than $60 billion of
holdings since 2010 as Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan 
sought to rebuild the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based company’s
 balance sheet  following a $45 billion bailout during the
financial crisis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net ;
Yalman Onaran in New York at 
 yonaran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  