-- U.S. House to Split Food Stamps From Farm Bill, Aide Says
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-07-09T20:19:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/u-s-house-to-split-food-stamps-from-farm-bill-aide-says.html
U.S. House leaders have decided to
split  food stamps  and other nutrition programs from  farm
subsidies  and bring an agriculture-only bill up for a vote
before the August recess, a Republican leadership aide said.  Such a move would amount to a divorce for farm and
nutrition programs, which have moved through Congress as part of
the same bill since 1977.  Last month, the House defeated a $939 billion farm-and-food
bill, H.R. 1947, after lawmakers adopted food-stamp amendments
opposed by Democrats.  Removing food stamps and other nutrition programs for low-income Americans from the farm bill may enable Republican
leaders to gain support within their own ranks to pass the
agricultural subsidies without the support of Democrats, who had
objected to the legislation’s $20.5 billion in cuts to the food
programs over a decade.  House Republican leaders hope to pass the agriculture
portion before the August recess, said the aide, who wasn’t
authorized to publicly discuss the plans and spoke on condition
of anonymity. In a memo last week, Majority Leader  Eric Cantor 
of Virginia told his members to “be prepared to act on a
revised farm bill” this month, without specifying what that
bill would include.  Farm programs start expiring Oct. 1. Any legislation passed
by the House must be reconciled with the Senate-passed bill, S.
954, which would cut $4 billion from the food-stamp program over
10 years.  Senate Agriculture Committee Chairwoman  Debbie Stabenow , a
Michigan Democrat, has said that a farm bill without food stamps
is a non-starter.  Chairmen’s Support  The plan to separate food stamps from farm programs has the
support of House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan  of
 Wisconsin , the Republican vice presidential nominee last year,
and Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte of  Virginia , a
former Agriculture Committee chairman. Both were among 62
Republicans who voted against the farm bill, which was defeated
195-234 on June 20.  Democratic opposition intensified after the House adopted
an amendment, backed by Cantor, that would have allowed states
to set work requirements for food-stamp recipients. Only 24
Democrats supported the farm bill, prompting Cantor to accuse
the minority party of playing politics with farm issues.  After the bill’s defeat, Representative  Collin Peterson  of
 Minnesota , the top Democrat on the Agriculture Committee, said
that more members of his party were prepared to vote for the
measure until the House adopted the work-requirement amendment.  Divided Coalition  Today, Peterson called the two-bill proposal a “crazy
strategy” and said it would backfire.  “I don’t see how they get 218 votes for the farm portion
of the bill,” said Peterson, who predicted no Democrats would
vote for it because Republicans are “are making it partisan on
purpose.”  Agriculture Committee Chairman  Frank Lucas , an Oklahoma
Republican, has opposed splitting the legislation, arguing that
such a move could divide the rural-urban coalition that Farm
Belt lawmakers have put together to pass the legislation.  Still, he told constituents at town-hall meetings during
last week’s break for the July 4 holiday that he would support
splitting the farm measure if Republican leaders can get the
votes to pass it.  “The short answer is I don’t necessarily think it’s a good
idea, but I will do what I have to do to get a bill passed,”
Lucas told a town hall meeting, according to a July 2  account  in
the Stillwater, Oklahoma, News Press.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  