-- Bernanke Needn’t Testify in AIG Bailout Suit, U.S. Says
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-07-09T16:12:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/u-s-seeks-to-block-bernanke-testimony-in-greenberg-s-aig-suit.html
U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  shouldn’t be compelled to testify in Maurice “Hank” Greenberg’s lawsuit over the government’s bailout of  American
International Group Inc. (AIG) , the  Justice Department  said.  Starr International Co., Greenberg’s closely held
investment firm and an AIG  shareholder , hasn’t shown the
“extraordinary circumstances” needed to warrant the testimony
because information on Bernanke’s role in the 2008 bailout can
be obtained from other sources, the U.S. argued in a filing in
the U.S. Court of Federal Claims in Washington.  “As a general rule, high-ranking government officials are
not subject to depositions regarding the reasons for taking
official actions,” Brian Mizoguchi, a Justice Department
lawyer, wrote in the filing yesterday.  Starr sued the government for $25 billion in 2011.
Greenberg called the assumption of 80 percent of the AIG’s stock
by the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  in September 2008 a
taking of property in violation of shareholders’ constitutional
rights to due process and equal protection of the law.  The AIG board on Jan. 9 declined to join the suit, saying
it was unlikely to succeed and risked harming the company’s
reputation after the bailout. A trial has been set for Sept. 29,
2014. A related case brought by Starr against the  New York  Fed
was dismissed in November by a judge in New York.  ‘Important Testimony’  “Mr. Bernanke has important testimony to give in this
case,”  David Boies , a lawyer for Starr at Boies, Schiller &
Flexner LLP, said in an e-mail. He said Starr will respond in
court to the U.S. filing within the next couple of weeks.  Bernanke, 59, was served with a deposition notice on June
21 by Starr, which seeks to interview him on Aug. 16, according
to the government’s filing. The U.S. contended that whatever
Bernanke has to say is available from sources such as Board of
Governors meeting minutes or depositions of lower-ranking
officials.  Greenberg, 88, stepped down as AIG’s chairman and chief
executive officer in 2005 amid an investigation tied to an
accounting scandal.  The case is Starr International Co. v. U.S., 1:11-cv-00779,
U.S. Court of Federal Claims ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  