-- U.S.-China Talks Delve Into Central Banks Amid Snowden Cloud
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 2013-07-10T04:23:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/u-s-china-talks-delve-into-central-banks-as-snowden-casts-cloud.html
The U.S. and  China  are meeting this
week to find ways to balance a wider flow of investment and
goods as their central banks try to prevent excessive risk-taking from derailing the world’s biggest economies.  The two-day U.S.-China Strategic and Economic Dialogue
starting today in Washington is scheduled to be hosted for the
first time by Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew and Secretary of
State  John Kerry  and includes counterparts Vice Premier Wang Yang and State Councilor  Yang Jiechi . All four have been on the
job less than six months.  While Edward Snowden’s leak of U.S. surveillance secrets
threatens to complicate the national security discussions,
economic officials on both sides will press for detail on issues
ranging from trade agreements and intellectual property to
capital flows and monetary policies.  “The top thing that American companies would like to see
is more  market access  in China,” John Frisbie, president of the
U.S.-China Business Council, said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television yesterday. He cited Chinese controls on foreign
ownership in areas including cloud computing and agriculture.
The council represents about 230 American companies with
business in China, including Apple Inc., Ford Motor Co. and Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  Officials from both nations met in a working group on
cybersecurity on July 8 amid U.S. concerns that China is waging
a cyber-espionage campaign.  Spying Differences  Snowden’s disclosures about U.S. programs that collect
phone and Internet data included his assertion to the  South
China Morning Post  last month that the U.S. had been hacking
into computers in  Hong Kong  and mainland China since 2009.  Snowden’s disclosures may weaken the U.S. negotiating
position on its cybersecurity concerns, said Shen Dingli,
director of the Center for American Studies at Fudan University
in Shanghai.  “U.S. criticism of China will be lessened,” Shen said in
a telephone interview. “Still, this is an issue that will be
discussed.”  The U.S. is drawing a distinction between government
surveillance for national-security purposes and cyber-enabled
theft of corporate  trade secrets .  ‘Gain Advantage’  “It is just a different kind of activity to be stealing
trade secrets and to be using them to gain advantage against a
competitor,” Lew said in an interview this week with  CNN ’s
Fareed Zakaria.  Other security issues to discuss include North Korea, Syria
and Iran, according to a U.S. administration official who spoke
to reporters earlier this week on condition of anonymity because
the talks hadn’t begun.  Kerry’s participation could be complicated by the illness
of his wife, Teresa Heinz Kerry, who has been hospitalized since
July 7 in Boston. State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki said
yesterday Kerry planned to be present at today’s session in
Washington, while being prepared to “make changes as needed.”
She said Deputy Secretary  William Burns  would sit in if Kerry
was unable to attend.  In the economic talks, which include  Federal Reserve 
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , both sides will probe the other on its
central bank policies.  Liquidity Squeeze  The People’s Bank of China delayed providing liquidity in
interbank markets after the overnight lending rate between banks
hit a record 11.7 percent June 20, a move an Obama
administration official said this week was aimed at instilling
market discipline.  In the U.S., the Federal Reserve is debating the timing of
scaling back a bond-buying  program  that’s aimed at reducing 7.6
percent unemployment.  Global equities have lost more than $3.7 trillion in value
and U.S. Treasury yields have climbed to an almost two-year high
since Bernanke said in congressional testimony on May 22 that
policy makers could consider reducing bond purchases within
“the next few meetings” if officials see signs of sustained
improvement in the labor market.  Global investors want to hear that the Fed and PBOC will
“continue to support healthy economic growth with their central
bank activities, and to the extent that growth is anything other
than healthy, that they will be even more supportive,” said
 Michael Holland , chairman of New York-based Holland & Co., which
oversees more than $4 billion.  U.S. officials said they plan to press China to pursue
policies that will help reverse a Chinese slowdown, safeguard
its financial system, open its markets to overseas products and
capital, and allow for a more flexible  exchange rate .  Trade Imbalance  The  U.S. trade deficit  with China in the first five months
of this year was $121.1 billion, wider than the $118 billion
shortfall in the same period last year, according to Commerce
Department data. For all of 2012, U.S. imports of Chinese goods
exceeded American exports there by a record $315.1 billion.  Economic momentum no longer runs as strongly in one
direction as it did four years ago, when the U.S. was struggling
under the financial crisis and  Chinese gross domestic product 
was advancing 9 percent a year.  The International Monetary Fund yesterday projected that
 China’s economy  will grow 7.8 percent this year and 7.7 percent
in 2014. U.S. gross domestic product is forecast to expand 1.7
percent before accelerating by 2.7 percent next year, according
to the Washington-based IMF.  Slower Growth  Chinese President Xi Jinping has signaled that the
country’s new leaders will tolerate slower growth. The PBOC
refrained from addressing a cash crunch even as money-market
rates climbed to records on June 20. Then it signaled on June 25
that liquidity support would be focused on banks that lend to
help the economy. China’s benchmark money-market rate yesterday
touched 3.40 percent, the lowest level since May,  from a record
12.45 percent on June 20.  “There’s going to be discussion about what’s really
happening in the Chinese financial system,” said Clay Lowery, a
vice president at Washington-based Rock Creek Global Advisors
LLC and former assistant  treasury secretary  for international
affairs during the George W.  Bush administration .  China may point to progress allowing its currency to rise.
The  yuan  rose 0.08 percent last week to 6.1326 per dollar, the
best performance since the five days ended May 24, according to
China Foreign Exchange Trade System prices. It has gained almost
4 percent in the past year, the biggest increase among 11 Asian
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  In the CNN interview, Lew said China’s steps to allow a
rise in the yuan has been “a good thing.”  Yuan Movements  “But we’ve also seen that the movement kind of comes and
goes and it flattens out and there’s still a gap,” the Treasury
secretary said.  While U.S. companies lobby for a stronger yuan in addition
to opening Asia’s largest market to more foreign investment,
China Investment Corp., the world’s fifth-largest sovereign
wealth fund, argues it’s unfairly treated by U.S. regulators.
The fund may seek a more transparent investment approval process
under the U.S. national security review by the  Committee on
Foreign Investment in the U.S ., or CFIUS.  The committee is reviewing Shuanghui International Holdings
Ltd.’s proposed $4.7 billion purchase of Virginia-based
 Smithfield Foods Inc. (SFD) , the world’s largest pork producer, amid
public unease about Chinese investments.  Investment Barriers  In an opinion piece in today’s Wall Street Journal, Vice
Premier Wang, Lew’s counterpart in the talks, said the U.S.
should ease restrictions on Chinese investment and repeated the
long-held Chinese position that the U.S. should also allow more
technology exports to China in order to ease the trade
imbalance.  “Some Chinese wonder why their country’s corporate
investments in America have suffered setbacks time and again,
even as the U.S. is actively trying to expand employment,” Wang
wrote in the paper. “Why should the U.S. keep talking about its
trade imbalance with China while refusing to lift controls on
high-tech exports to China?”  Chinese authorities may also seek clarification on the
Fed’s program of $85 billion in monthly purchases of Treasuries
and mortgage-backed securities. Currencies have gyrated and cash
flowed out of developing economies as Fed officials consider
reining in the so-called quantitative easing policy.  The Strategic and Economic Dialogue, a set of annual
meetings held in the U.S. and China in alternate years, was
initiated in 2006 and broadened in 2009 to include State
Department issues including human rights and hacking. An earlier
Strategic Economic Dialogue -- without the word “and” -- was
initiated under the Bush administration, held twice-yearly and
led by then-Treasury Secretary  Henry Paulson  to focus on
economic issues.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  