-- Uganda Wants Chinese-Built Infrastructure Paid for With Oil
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 2013-07-09T11:47:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/uganda-wants-chinese-built-infrastructure-repaid-with-oil-income.html
Uganda will offer most of its
infrastructure projects to Chinese companies because they can be
repaid from future oil revenue, unlike Western businesses that
expect advance payment, the Prime Minister’s office said.  Uganda, classified as one of the world’s poorest countries
by the  World Bank , is on the verge of an oil boom after the
discovery of crude in 2006. The government is seeking investment
in improving electricity generation and transportation networks
to drive economic growth intended to propel the country to
middle-income status by as early as 2016.  “Western companies want the old model where they are first
advanced money before starting on the projects; whereas the
Chinese companies, most of which are owned by government, can
start without the money,” said David Kyetume Kasanga, a
spokesman in Prime Minister Amama Mbabazi’s office. The terms of
so-called “package loans” from China allow upfront investment,
delaying payback until later by either cash or “in-kind”
payments, Kasanga said by phone today.  Trade between China and  Africa  grew to $160 billion in 2011
from $10.6 billion in 2000, according to China’s state-run
Xinhua news service, while Chinese investment in the continent
stands at $20 billion, according to  Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK)  The
world’s second-biggest economy is tapping resources in African
countries ranging from the Democratic Republic Congo, the
world’s eighth-biggest copper producer, to Tanzania, the second-largest holder of natural gas reserves in East Africa.  Political Support  China faces growing competition from other countries
interested in investing in Africa.  Last month at the Tokyo International Conference on African
Development, Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe pledged 3.2
trillion yen ($32 billion) of public and private support over
five years. U.S. President  Barack Obama  last week ended a three-nation tour of Africa in which he unveiled a $7 billion
initiative to enhance access to electricity across Africa.  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  and partners  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  of China and
France’s  Total SA (FP)  are developing Ugandan oilfields estimated to
hold 3.5 billion barrels. Production may start on a small scale
for domestic consumption next year and rise to a significant
amount by 2017, according to Tullow.  “Our government is concentrating on a few priorities due
to insufficient funding and China is to fund a number of
these,” Mbabazi said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.
Chinese companies will “take over all contracts for
infrastructural projects,” according to the statement, which
didn’t provide further details.  Weeklong Visit  Mbabazi made the comment at the end of a one-week official
visit to China in which he met government leaders and officials
from companies including  China Machinery Engineering Corp. (1829) , a
Beijing-based builder, and Huawei Technologies Co., China’s
biggest maker of networking equipment, according to the
statement.  Ugandan President  Yoweri Museveni  and his Chinese
counterpart Xi Jinping earlier this year agreed on a
“framework” to obtain Chinese investment for power generation,
 road construction  and other infrastructure projects, according
to the statement. They met at a summit of BRICS nations --
Brazil, Russia, India, China and  South Africa  -- in Durban,
South Africa in March, it said.  Projects planned for development in Uganda, East Africa’s
third-largest economy, include four hydropower plants and the
paving of 21 roads, according to the statement. About one
quarter of Uganda’s 37 million people in the $20 billion economy
live in  poverty , according to World Bank data on its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
Fred Ojambo in Kampala at 
 fojambo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  