-- Turkish Air Barred From Replacing Striking Staff With New Hires
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2013-07-09T11:19:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/turkish-air-barred-from-replacing-striking-staff-with-new-hires.html
Turkish Airlines  was barred by an
Istanbul labor court from hiring workers to replace a portion of
its employees who have been been on strike for almost two
months, a trade union said.  The airline has added about 700 workers and made
arrangements with its SunExpress joint venture and Indian
partner to make up for about 1,600 cabin crew who have held work
stoppages since May 15, a hiring spree that the Hava-Is trade
union said undermines the protesters’ efforts.  “The court decision confirmed our argument that the
employer is a strikebreaker,” union Chairman Atilla Aycin said.
“We have communicated the court’s decision with top management
and are now expecting the company to terminate job contracts of
those hired people.”  Management of Turkish Airlines, formally known as  Turk Hava
Yollari (THYAO)  AS, has been at odds with employees over pay, with
workers demanding a 12 percent increase, exceeding a company
offer of a 3 percent raise in the first half and another 3
percent in the second. The union also wants 305 former staff to
be reinstated, and guarantees that flight hours be cut for cabin
crew.  The court’s decision hasn’t yet arrived at Turkish
Airlines, said Ali Genc, spokesman for the Istanbul-based
carrier. Contracts to get service and staff from SunExpress and
 Jet Airways India Ltd. (JETIN)  predated the strike and are based on
longterm service supply deals, he said. Turkish Airlines has the
right to appeal.  Workers are seeking improved terms as the carrier expands
its fleet and attracts more passengers to build Istanbul into a
hub for intercontinental transfer flights. Cabin crew fly at
least 115 hours a month, compared with an international standard
of 80 hours, according to Aycin. Turkish Airlines aims to carry
46 million passengers in 2013, seven million more than a year
earlier, including 27.3 million international travelers.  Turkish Airlines and the union had engaged in talks after
the strike began, though the company never agreed on any of the
union’s terms, Aycin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benjamin Harvey at   bharvey11@bloomberg.net  