-- Waxman Says Debt Limit Increase Will Need Democrats
-- B y   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2013-07-09T16:35:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/waxman-says-debt-limit-increase-will-need-democrats.html
The U.S. House’s inability to pass a
farm subsidy and food stamps bill last month isn’t a good sign
for must-pass legislation to raise the federal debt limit or
extend  government spending  past Sept. 30, Representative  Henry Waxman  said.  Republicans who control the House can’t pass those bills
without Democratic support, Waxman, the top Democrat on the
Energy and Commerce Committee, said in an interview today with
Bloomberg Government in Washington.  “That means we’ve got to have compromise, and a lot of
Republicans think compromise is a dirty word,” said Waxman of
 California .  House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio  lost support from more
than one-fourth of his Republican caucus when the chamber
defeated the $939 billion agriculture-policy bill on June 20.
Sixty-two Republicans joined Democrats in the 195-234 defeat of
the measure.  Divisions between the House and the Democratic-led Senate
mean Congress is on pace to break last year’s record for the
fewest number of bills enacted since just after World War II,
when modern record-keeping began.  While the Senate passed its own version of a farm bill and
a comprehensive immigration measure, the House rejected a farm
bill and hasn’t begun considering immigration legislation. Many
measures House leaders have brought to the floor, including one
to repeal the 2010 health-care law, have little or no chance of
advancing in the Senate.  Partisan Dysfunction   Waxman’s committee is a prime example of the strains
between the two parties.  Bills to bypass the White House and approve the Keystone XL
pipeline and to repeal Obamacare came through Energy and
Commerce. Neither of those became law.  Apart from a pair of House-passed hydropower bills that the
Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee has since
approved, few bills that the House committee spends time on have
been taken up in the Senate. Many won’t be.  “I just don’t understand why people want to be chairs of
committees and subcommittees as a majority to do nothing,” said
Waxman.  Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  said in a memo July 5 that the
House would move at least three more energy bills later this
month. “We will continue to pass our energy strategy in the
House which encourages the development of all resources and
removes the federal government from restricting our economic
potential,” the Virginia Republican wrote.  On the list: Regulatory rollbacks for coal ash storage and
increased scrutiny of regulations that would cost more than $1
billion, both similar to legislation in the 112th Congress that
died in the Senate and are again opposed by most Democrats.  The House farm bill is H.R. 1947. The Senate version is S.
954.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Derek Wallbank in  Washington  at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  