-- Wi-Lan Thrives Despite Threat of Patent-Lawsuit Crackdown
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2013-07-09T20:24:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/wi-lan-thrives-despite-threat-of-patent-lawsuit-crackdown.html
Wi-Lan Inc. (WIN) , an Ottawa-based company
that has used lawsuits to get companies to license its
technology, is enjoying its biggest rally in two years as
investors see little threat from President  Barack Obama ’s
promise to rein in patent litigation.  Wi-Lan’s  stock  has gained 16 percent over the past three
months, bolstered by a June agreement with  Samsung Electronics
Co. (005930)  for technology used in the South Korean smartphone maker’s
devices. The gain puts the stock behind only  Open Text Corp. (OTC)  and
 Celestica Inc. (CLS)  in the S&P/TSX information-technology  index . The
shares jumped 11 percent on June 21 after the Samsung deal was
announced, marking the largest one-day gain since 2011.  Wi-Lan depends in part on the threat of litigation to reach
licensing deals. While Obama is seeking to stem patent suits
against companies like Apple Inc., new rules could actually
benefit Wi-Lan, said  Robert Young , an analyst at Canaccord
Genuity Corp. That’s because the regulations may dissuade other
companies from trying to enforce lower-quality patents and
clarify the rules on infringement.  “This is a company that had real technology that created a
lot of value in the wireless communications sector,” Young said
in an interview. “Any company that has really good patents and
has invested a lot in developing and improving them over time is
positioned to benefit, and I think Wi-Lan is one of those
companies.”  Outside Courtrooms  The company also does much of its negotiating outside of a
legal setting, said Michael Vladescu, chief operating officer.  More than 90 percent of Wi-Lan’s licensing deals didn’t
require the company to sue for patent infringement, he said.
Until yesterday, when a Texas court began hearing its
infringement case against a group of companies including
 Alcatel-Lucent (ALU)  over the 3GPP mobile-phone standard, the company
had never gone to trial.  Obama’s measures probably won’t have a significant impact
because the company’s patents cover “fundamental” technologies
with many applications, Vladescu said.  “We approach our business in a very broad and
comprehensive manner,” he said in an interview. “These kinds
of changes that are being proposed have less of an impact on
us.”  Dot-Com Bust  Founded in 1992, Wi-Lan originally developed and sold
wireless-networking equipment such as modems. The company’s
shares took a dive after the dot-com bust, losing 98 percent of
their value from a high in 2000.  Since 2006, Wi-Lan has focused on licensing its portfolio
of more than 3,000  patents , rather than making its own products.
More than 265 companies license its intellectual property,
including  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , Nokia Oyj and BlackBerry,
according to Wi-Lan’s website.  The Samsung agreement covers long-term licensing for mobile
phones, tablets, laptops and networking equipment. The deal adds
“significantly greater patent scope,” Wi-Lan said when it
announced the accord June 21. The company didn’t specify the
terms or the length of the license.  With the Samsung pact, Wi-Lan is benefiting from the
popularity of smartphones such as the Galaxy S series. Suwon,
South Korea-based Samsung is the biggest user of Google Inc.’s
Android operating system, which accounted for 75 percent of the
global smartphone market in the first quarter, according to IDC.  Jennifer Groh, a Canada-based spokeswoman for Samsung,
didn’t immediately reply to a phone call and e-mail seeking
comment after normal business hours.  Idea Hijackers  Obama, meanwhile,  is targeting  companies that “hijack
somebody else’s idea and see if they can extort some money” by
suing companies for intellectual-property infringement, the
president said earlier this year. Last month he  issued  a series
of orders and legislative recommendations that would give courts
more discretion in awarding fees, train examiners to spot overly
broad claims, and protect consumers and businesses against
claims on “off-the-shelf” products.  In announcing the patent reforms, the administration issued
a  report  finding that 100,000 companies were threatened with
infringement last year by patent-assertion entities -- companies
whose sole business is to obtain patents and use them to obtain
royalties from businesses that make or use products and
services. Several pieces of legislation with similar aims are
also working their way through Congress. One proposal would
enable companies to recoup legal fees from patent owners who
lose their lawsuits.  Vermont Case  In May,  Vermont  sued MPHJ Technology Investments -- a
company that demanded royalties from hundreds of businesses for
technology related to converting scanned documents into e-mail
format -- for allegedly violating the state’s consumer-protection laws.  “You’ve got the states involved,” said Brad Barker, a
Bloomberg Industries analyst in  New York  who tracks the effect
of legislation on companies. “You’ve got the president and
Democrats and Republicans in Congress all on the same page. It’s
a pretty darn good gathering of forces lining up against these
companies.”  Wi-Lan has other court hearings scheduled that may yield
settlements. A trial against a group of businesses including
Apple and Hewlett-Packard Co. is set to begin in October, the
company said.  More than half of Wi-Lan’s patents have been stockpiled
through acquisitions, and the company is expanding into other
consumer segments, including digital-television displays,
Vladescu said.  “It’s very much a scalable model,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  