-- Winston, Morgan, Linklaters, Dykema: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-07-09T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/winston-morgan-linklaters-dykema-business-of-law.html
Winston & Strawn LLP announced that
six attorneys and three associates joined the firm’s  Los Angeles 
labor and employment practice from  Norton Rose  Fulbright LLP.  Marcus A. Torrano, Michael S. Chamberlin and Julie Capell
joined the firm as partners. Torrano formerly was the head of
Norton Rose’s Los Angeles labor and employment practice, and he
joins as co-chairman of Winston & Strawn’s Los Angeles practice.
Chamberlin will assume a role on various firmwide committees, it
said.  “In the California legal market, labor and employment is
one of the three hottest areas in demand, and this will allow us
to tap further into the market,” Eric Sagerman, Winston’s Los
Angeles office managing partner said in a statement. “The
arrival of this well-regarded team furthers our West Coast
growth strategy in a very significant way.”  The attorneys have experience in class-action work,
traditional labor and employment, counseling and single
plaintiff defense work.  They also have experience counseling
and litigating on behalf of employers in executive employment
agreements,  trade secrets , wrongful discharge, discrimination
and harassment issues, the firm said.  Winston’s labor and employment practice has almost 70
partners and associates in the firm’s domestic and international
offices. It has lawyers at 16 offices in  North America , Asia and
 Europe .  Morgan Lewis Adds Eight Banking, Finance Lawyers in Moscow  Morgan Lewis & Bockius LLP  hired a group of eight business
and finance lawyers from  Gide Loyrette Nouell  in Moscow. The
group is led by partners Grigory Marinichev, the former head of
the banking and finance and restructuring practices at Gide, and
Konstantin Kochetkov, a project finance lawyer. They will be
joined by six associates, the firm said in a statement.  “Grigory and Konstantin’s team of top-tier finance and
corporate transactional lawyers represent many large financial
institutions and corporate enterprises that are particularly
active in Russia and Europe,” firm Chairman Francis M. Milone
said in a statement. “The diversity of their practice and
client base offers attractive synergies with our international
presence and deep bench in related areas,” he added.  Marinichev began Gide’s banking and finance practice 10
years ago. His practice focuses on structured finance and
secured lending as well as debt restructuring and insolvency
matters for blue chip borrowers, Russian and European lenders
and debtors undergoing liquidation or reorganization, the firm
said.  Kochetkov advises clients on project finance transactions,
as well as on issues relating to pre-export finance, export
finance, restructuring, equity financing and private-equity
transactions.  Morgan Lewis ’s business and finance team has more than 350
transactional attorneys. The firm has more than 1,600 legal
professionals in 24 offices in the U.S., Europe and Asia.  Ex-Texas U.S. Attorney DeGabrielle Joins Bracewell & Giuliani  Donald J. DeGabrielle, former U.S. attorney for the
Southern District of  Texas , joined Bracewell & Giuliani LLP as a
partner in the white-collar defense, internal investigations and
regulatory enforcement practice.  While at the U.S. Attorney’s Office, DeGabrielle led the
Criminal Division in the district and worked in the Public
Integrity Unit, where he focused on public corruption, white-collar crime, environmental crime and bank fraud, the firm said.  “The judgment one develops and exercises as U.S. attorney
is unparalleled. It gives Don the ability to advise clients with
insight that very few lawyers possess,” former New York Mayor
Rudolph W. Giuliani, the firm’s name partner and a former U.S.
attorney,, said in a statement.  Bracewell & Giuliani has 470 lawyers in Texas, New York,
Washington,  Connecticut ,  Seattle , Dubai and London.  Narayan Iyer Rejoins Linklaters’ India Practice  Narayan Iyer, a partner with Talwar Thakore & Associates in
Mumbai, will rejoin Linklaters LLP in August, the firm said in a
statement.  Iyer, who joined Linklaters as a trainee in 1996, was a
founding member of the firm’s India practice and was elected a
partner in 2007. He left Linklaters in 2009 for Talwar Thakore,
where he spent the last 3 1/2 years developing the firm broadly
and the finance practice specifically. ‪  Iyer will be based in London and will work alongside
partners Sandeep Katwala, head of Linklaters’s India practice,
and Savi Hebbur to support clients investing in India and Indian
corporate and financial institutions as they expand and raise
funds.  “Narayan’s return will further strengthen our London-based
India facing capability and complement the India expertise we
have in Asia,” Katwala said in a statement. “Our best-friends
arrangement between Linklaters and TT&A will continue to thrive,
and Narayan will play a key part in strengthening this
relationship.”  Linklaters has lawyers at 28 offices worldwide.  FCC Chief Counsel to the Chairman Joins Paul Hastings  Paul Hastings  LLP announced that Sherrese Smith will join
the firm in August as a partner in the Washington office as part
of the telecommunications, media and technology and privacy and
data-security practices.  She was most recently chief counsel to Chairman  Julius
Genachowski  of the Federal Communications Commission and prior
to that was general counsel at Washington Post Digital.  “We have developed an impressive track record advising
clients on some of the most significant media M&A deals of the
last 12 months,” Elizabeth Noe, chairwoman of the corporate
practice at Paul Hastings said in a statement. “Sherrese’s
addition will take our TMT-focused transactional practice to a
still higher level.”  Paul Hastings has lawyers at 20 offices in Asia, Europe and
the U.S.  Firm News  Dykema Gossett Opens a Second Texas Office in Austin  Law firm Dykema Gossett PLLC opened an office in Austin,
Texas, the firm’s 13th nationwide and second in the state.
Establishing the office are a mix of nonpartner lawyers from
outside and within the firm, including senior counsel Kimberly
L. Kiplin, an attorney in Dykema’s government policy group and
former Texas Lottery Commission General Counsel. The office will
be further augmented by two Dallas-based Dykama partners,
including Bill Finkelstein, director of Dykema’s Texas offices.  “Our expansion into Austin is driven by our single-minded
dedication to serve our clients’ needs,” Finkelstein, a member
of the corporate finance and bankruptcy practice groups, said in
a statement. “As Texas is the second most-populous state in the
nation, and Austin the center of state government, opening an
office here makes strong strategic sense.”  Dykema opened the Dallas office in 2007, and during 2013
the firm has added 10 attorneys to the Texas offices. In
January, the firm opened a Minneapolis office and last August
one inn Charlotte,  North Carolina .  Kiplin is a senior counsel in Dykema’s government policy
practice group with more than 25 years of experience in
administrative law. Kiplin was general counsel of the Texas
Lottery Commission from 1993 to 2012.  Tax lawyers Kevin Oldham and Drew McEwen join Dykema from
McEwen Oldham LLC, in nonpartner positions. Erin B. Dempsey,
senior counsel in Dykema’s real estate practice group, also
joins the office.  David J. Schenck is a member in the
litigation department in Dykema’s Dallas and Austin offices.  Dykema has more than 350 lawyers in 13 U.S. offices.  U.S. Law Firm Mergers for Half Year Top 2008 Record  There have been 39 U.S. law firm mergers in the first half
of 2013, with 18 in the second quarter, Altman Weil MergerLine
said in a statement.  “The largest annual total for U.S. law firm mergers was 70
in 2008,” according to Altman Weil principal Ward Bower. “If
the current pace continues, it looks like 2013 will surpass that
record.”  St. Louis-based Husch Blackwell LLP, which has 543 lawyers,
combined in June with Brown McCarroll LLP, a 65-lawyer Texas
firm, the largest merger in the second quarter.  Baker & McKenzie LLP’s acquisition of 45-lawyer Habib Al
Mulla in Dubai was the only cross-border deal in the second
quarter, Altman Weil said.  Altman Weil MergerLine tracks law firm combinations
reported by media outlets and in press releases.  The consulting
firm maintains an archive of mergers and analysis.  Litigation  BP Urges Appeals Court to Reject Costly View of Spill Accord  BP Plc (BP/) , with billions of dollars at stake, seeks to lower
payments from its partial  Gulf of Mexico   oil spill  settlement by
persuading a federal appeals court to order stricter standards
for evaluating claims.  The administrator, Patrick Juneau, is approving millions of
dollars in “fictitious” payments for business losses based on
what BP believes is a flawed interpretation of the agreement
reached with victims’ lawyers in 2012, according to BP.  “Stop the hemorrhaging of cash,”  Theodore Olson , a
partner at Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LL and a BP lawyer, told a
three-judge panel of the  U.S. Court of Appeals  yesterday in New
Orleans, urging the judges to reverse a lower-court ruling and
rein in Juneau. “Irreparable injuries are taking place, and
monies are being dispensed to parties from whom it will unlikely
be recoverable.”  An attorney for the plaintiffs, Samuel Issacharoff, told
the panel that London-based BP was aware as early as April 2012
of the method that would be used and the likely results.  BP underestimated the price tag, Issacharoff told the
judges. “They costed it out in a way we thought was erroneous
from the very beginning.”  The appeal is BP Exploration & Production Inc. v. Deepwater
Horizon Court-Supervised Settlement Program and Patrick Juneau
in his official capacity, 13-30315, U.S. Court of Appeals for
the Fifth Circuit (New Orleans). The lower court case is In re
Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico
on April 20, 2010, 10-md-02179, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  For more, click here.  S&P Argues Puffery Defense at U.S. Case’s First Court Test  Standard & Poor’s , at the first court hearing on the U.S.
government’s claims that the rating service defrauded investors,
argued that reasonable investors wouldn’t have relied on its
“puffery” about credit ratings.  John Keker of Keker & Van Nest LLP. a lawyer for the  McGraw
Hill Financial Inc. (MHFI)  unit, yesterday told U.S. District Judge
 David Carter  in Santa Ana, California, that S&P’s generic
statements about its business aspirations weren’t material to
the banks’ buying securities and didn’t meaningfully change the
mix of information available to investors.  “They’re seeking to blame the entire financial crisis on
Standard & Poor’s,” Keker said. “Those generic statements
don’t make a scheme to defraud. For a scheme to defraud there
has to be a specific intent to harm the victim, in this case the
investor.”  S&P has asked Carter to the dismiss the government’s case
in which the U.S. seeks as much as $5 billion in civil
penalties, saying it didn’t adequately support allegations that
the company defrauded federally insured financial institutions
by knowingly understating the credit risks of mortgage-backed
securities.  The lawsuit was brought by U.S. Attorney Andre Birotte Jr.
in Los Angeles under the 1989 Financial Institutions Reform,
Recovery and Enforcement Act, passed after the savings and loan
crisis to allow the government to seek civil penalties for
losses of federally insured financial institutions caused by
fraud.  The case is U.S. v. McGraw-Hill Cos., 13-cv-00779, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California (Santa Ana).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York,
at   eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 