-- Won Rises Most in 5 Months as Exporters Sell Dollars; Bonds Gain
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-07-09T07:13:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/won-snaps-two-day-drop-as-exporters-sell-dollars-bonds-advance.html
The won rose the most in more than
five months on speculation South Korean exporters took advantage
of a two-day decline in the currency to repatriate income from
overseas. Government bonds gained.  The won touched its weakest level since June 27 yesterday
as improvements in the U.S. labor market stoked concerns the
Federal Reserve will rein in stimulus that has fueled demand for
emerging-market assets. Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke will speak
on economic policy tomorrow and the central bank will release
minutes of its June policy meeting.  The won climbed 0.9 percent to 1,141.73 per dollar in
Seoul, the biggest gain since Feb. 4, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility, a gauge of expected
moves in the exchange rate used to price options, fell 37 basis
points, or 0.37 percentage point, to 10.45 percent.  “Exporters actively sold dollars to take advantage of
favorable exchange rates,” said Jude Noh, a chief currency
trader at Suhyup Bank in Seoul.  U.S. payrolls rose by 195,000 workers for a second month in
June, the Labor Department reported July 5 in  Washington ,
exceeding the 165,000 median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.
South Korea will strengthen monitoring of the exchange rate and
seek to counter volatility when there are signs of “herd
behavior,” Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok said last week.  The yield on the 2.75 percent bonds due June 2016 fell one
basis point to 3 percent, prices from Korea Exchange Inc. show.
The rate rose in the past two days and touched the highest level
since June 25 yesterday.  Bond Support  South Korea will provide as much as 6.4 trillion won ($5.6
billion) of refinancing support for the country’s corporate bond
market, the Financial Services Commission said yesterday, as
yields surge to the highest level in more than 10 months and
debt offerings dwindle. The nation will issue so-called primary-collateralized bond obligations to provide more liquidity in the
market, the commission said in a statement.  Benchmark yields for three-year AA-rated corporate notes
surged as much as 10 basis points to 3.51 percent yesterday, the
highest since Aug. 20, according to data from the Korea
Financial Investment Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in  Seoul  at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  