-- Woori Sale Seen Succeeding at Last With Breakup: Real M&A
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g   a n d   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2013-07-09T07:24:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/woori-sale-seen-succeeding-at-last-with-breakup-real-m-a.html
South Korea may finally succeed in
its fourth attempt to sell  Woori Finance Holdings Co. (053000)  -- this
time by breaking the lender into pieces.  The government, which owns  57 percent  of the nation’s
largest financial group, plans to split it into three divisions
and start an auction this month. A collection of banks bailed
out after the 1997 Asian financial crisis, Woori Finance trades
more cheaply relative to its net assets than any local peer,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Broken up, the group
may fetch $10.2 billion, 36 percent more than its  market value 
yesterday, said Nomura Holdings Inc.  After three failures since 2010, the state now has its best
chance of selling the Seoul-based company because the separate
divisions will attract a wider array of bidders, said CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets.  Fitch Ratings  said the businesses would be more
profitable as private entities, and the largest unit, Woori
Bank, is already being courted by Kyobo Life Insurance Co.  “This is the first time in a decade that I’ve felt like
the plan has a chance,”  Shaun Cochran , head of research in
Seoul at CLSA, said in a phone interview. “The most logical
thing has always been to break it up and find the most
interested bidder for each part.”  Past Failures  South Korea’s Financial Services Commission has said it
plans to put Woori Finance’s two regional banks,  Kyongnam Bank 
and Kwangju Bank, up for sale on July 15. Woori’s brokerage,
asset management and savings bank businesses will also be put on
the block. Woori Bank and smaller assets including the credit
card division will be sold next year.  “The likelihood of a sale looks much higher this time,”
Kim Eun Gab, a Seoul-based analyst at NH Investment & Securities
Co., said in a phone interview. “The plans are more detailed
and realistic.”  Woori Finance rose as much as 1.9 percent in Seoul today,
and ended up  1.4 percent  at 10,850 won a share, the highest
level in almost a month.  South Korea  injected 12.8 trillion won ($11.1 billion) into
Woori Finance, which it created in 2001 by combining five banks
that were crippled in the 1997 to 1998 financial crisis. The
government began to sell down its ownership as soon as the
following year in an initial public offering.  For three years, South Korea has been seeking to offload
its remaining stake to a single acquirer. The decision to sell
the business in pieces was announced on June 26.  Undervalued Units  “In the past, there was no buyer who was willing to buy
the big Woori Finance Holdings all together,” Joanne Lee, an
analyst at Korea Investment & Securities Co. in  Seoul , said in a
phone interview. “It was too burdensome.”  Woori Finance yesterday traded at 0.46 times book value,
the lowest multiple among seven South Korean banks with a market
value higher than $1 billion, according to Bloomberg data.  Valued separately, all of Woori’s components would be worth
as much as 11.7 trillion won, or about 36 percent more than the
group’s 8.6 trillion-won market value yesterday, Michael Na, an
analyst at Nomura in Seoul said in a July 1 research note.
Another sum-of-the-parts analysis by Sohn Joon-Beom, at LIG
Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul, values the company at as
much as 11.5 trillion won.  Kyongnam and Kwangju, the regional banks, may lure  KB
Financial Group Inc. (105560)  because they focus on different territories
and don’t overlap with KB’s assets, said Kim, the analyst at NH
Investment. KB owns South Korea’s largest lender, Kookmin Bank.
An official at KB Financial declined to comment.  Potential Buyers  Meanwhile, buying Kyongnam could boost 2013 profit at
Busan, South Korea-based BS Financial Group Inc. and Daegu,
South Korea-based  DGB Financial Group Inc. (139130)  by as much as 24
percent and 34 percent, respectively, Anderson Cha, a Seoul-based analyst at Daiwa Capital Markets, wrote in a June 26
report.  “We’re carefully considering an option to participate” in
the Kyongnam Bank sale, said Park Jae Kyung, a managing director
of BS Financial’s strategic and financial planning division.  “This is a rare opportunity, and we’re considering an
option to join as well,” DGB spokesman Shin Wan-Sik said in a
phone interview.  Woori Bank has a value of as much as 7.76 trillion won,
according to Nomura. The division has already drawn interest
from closely held Kyobo Life, which may bid for the lender as
part of a group, Song Guk Hyun, a spokesman for the Seoul-based
company, said last month.  The bank may also appeal to private-equity bidders, CLSA’s
Cochran said.  ‘Crucial’ Sale  “They could potentially create a bank that has a better
long-term record of credit-risk management and makes fewer
politically oriented decisions,” he said. “But is there
appetite to do it? The government might not find it attractive
to have an aggressive player focused purely on economics.”  Foreign private-equity bidders are welcome as long as their
funds help develop the domestic market, Sohn Byungdoo, secretary
general of the Public Fund Oversight Committee at the Financial
Services Commission, said in a July 4 interview. There’s already
a lot of demand for some of the assets, which will help create
momentum for the Woori Bank sale, as well, he said.  South Korea isn’t likely to recover all of the funds it
injected into  Woori Finance , even in a breakup. After raising
money from share sales and dividends, the state still needs to
recoup 7.02 trillion won, CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. said in a
June 26 report.  Sohn at the Financial Services Commission declined to
comment on the amount the government needs to raise. Still, the
commission said June 26 that a “prompt” sale is “crucial.”  President Park Geun Hye is under pressure to raise funds
for welfare programs, Heakyu Chang, director of financial
institutions at Fitch in Seoul, said in a June 27 research note.  “If they can get this deal done, you are doing less damage
to the public balance sheet if you’re spending elsewhere,” said
Cochran at CLSA.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net ;
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  