-- WTI-Brent Gap May Fall Victim to Too Much Oil: Chart of the Day
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2013-07-09T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/wti-brent-gap-may-fall-victim-to-too-much-oil-chart-of-the-day.html
The smallest price gap between U.S.
and European oil in 2 1/2 years probably will be short-lived
because American stockpiles are too high, according to Brad Olsen, a Tudor Pickering Holt & Co. analyst.  The CHART OF THE DAY tracks the differential between West
Texas Intermediate futures on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange
and  Brent crude  on  London ’s ICE Futures Europe exchange in the
top panel. Yesterday’s spread at settlement prices was $4.29 a
barrel, the lowest since January 2011 and 78 percent narrower
than at the start of the year.  Crude-oil inventories, as compiled by the Energy Department
weekly, appear in the bottom panel. Stockpiles peaked in May at
397.6 million barrels, the most since 1931. Last week’s level
came within 3.5 percent of the high.  “While market pricing is a powerful indicator, we find
inventory data more compelling,” Olsen and Dave Pursell, a
managing director at Tudor Pickering, wrote yesterday in a
report. Their firm, based in Houston, is an investment and
merchant bank specializing in energy.  Stockpiles at the delivery point for Nymex oil futures,
Cushing,  Oklahoma , are especially telling, their report said.
Weekly inventories at Cushing averaged 50.2 million barrels in
this year’s first half. The figure was 27 percent higher than in
the same period of last year.  Oil refiners stand to benefit from a widening of the
differential, which justifies buying their shares, Olsen and
Pursell wrote. He reiterated Tudor Pickering’s buy ratings on
Delek US Holdings Inc., Marathon Petroleum Corp., Phillips 66,
Tesoro Corp. and Valero Energy Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wilson  in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  