-- WTI Advances to 14-Month High Slimming Brent Gap to $3
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-07-10T12:31:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/wti-crude-increases-a-second-day-as-stockpiles-decline-in-u-s-.html
West Texas Intermediate jumped to
its highest level in 14 months amid declining crude stockpiles
in the U.S., narrowing its discount against Brent to less than
$3 a barrel for the first time since 2010.  Futures climbed above $105 a barrel for the first time
since May 3, 2012. Crude inventories fell by 9 million barrels
last week, said a person with knowledge of data from the
industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute . A government
report later today may show that  supplies  dropped by 3.2 million
barrels, according to a Bloomberg News survey. OPEC forecast
lower demand for its crude in 2014.  “That was the second straight week of huge draws in U.S.
crude inventories,” said Amrita Sen, an analyst at Energy
Aspects in  London . “Continued large inventory draws in the U.S.
are fueling further optimism about the  U.S. economy  and reflect
that production there is starting to flat-line.”  WTI for August delivery rose as much as $1.80 to $105.33 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
and was at $105.08 at 1:17 p.m. London time. The volume of all
futures traded was 87 percent higher than the 100-day average.  The U.S. benchmark pared its  discount  against its European
counterpart, North Sea Brent, to less than $3 a barrel for the
first time since December 2010, underlining the progressive
easing of a supply bottleneck in the U.S. The spread widened
earlier this year to as much as $23.44 a barrel on Feb. 8,
before contracting to as little as $2.96 today.  Brent, Buzzard  Brent for August settlement gained as much as 0.6 percent
earlier today and traded at $108.28 on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange at 1:17 p.m.  The U.K.’s largest oil field, Buzzard, is returning to full
production after falling below 100,000 barrels a day yesterday,
according to three people with knowledge of the matter who asked
not to be identified because the information is confidential.
The 200,000 barrel-a-day field is now producing about 160,000
barrels a day, one of them said. Nexen Inc., which operates the
field, declined to comment. Buzzard is the largest contributor
to the Forties crude grade, which typically sets the price of
the North Sea Dated Brent oil benchmark.  U.S. gasoline stockpiles shrank by 3.5 million barrels in
the week ended July 5, the API said yesterday, according to the
person who asked not to be identified because the report wasn’t
publicly distributed. Supplies are forecast to rise by 1 million
barrels, according to the median estimate of 11 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg before data from the EIA, the Energy
Department’s statistical arm.  Summer Driving  “If people are confident about hitting the road and
spending money, then they are confident about the economy,”
said  Jonathan Barratt , the chief executive officer of Barratt’s
Bulletin, a commodity newsletter in Sydney. “This time of the
year, you have to expect” a decrease in stockpiles, he said.  Distillate inventories, including heating oil and diesel,
increased by 2.8 million barrels, according to the API, which
has started releasing statistics on a subscription basis. A gain
of  1 million barrels  is projected in the survey.  U.S.  refineries  probably boosted processing by 0.2
percentage point to 92.4 percent of capacity last week,
according to the Bloomberg survey. That would be the highest
operating rate since August. Motor-fuel demand typically rises
from the last weekend in May to the Labor Day weekend in early
September, the peak vacation season in the U.S.  The API in  Washington  collects stockpile information on a
voluntary basis from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and
pipelines. The government requires reports to be filed with the
EIA for its weekly survey, due at 10:30 a.m. Washington time.  Political Upheaval  WTI surged above $100 a barrel last week for the first time
since September as  Egypt ’s political upheaval heightened concern
that unrest in the most populous Arab country will spread and
disrupt Middle East oil supplies.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries forecast
the world will need less of its crude next year, even as global
oil demand growth rebounds to its strongest pace since 2010,
amid competing supply sources.  Demand for OPEC’s crude will slip by 300,000 barrels a day
next year to 29.6 million a day next year, or about 2.6 percent
less than the 12-member group is pumping now, the organization
said in its first set of forecasts for 2014. The need for OPEC’s
crude will diminish even as global oil demand growth recovers to
1 million barrels a day in 2014, from 800,000 a day this year,
amid rising output in the U.S. and  Canada .  Libyan production fell the most last month among OPEC
nations, according to the group’s monthly report.  WTI is extending its rally after breaching a technical
resistance level on the weekly chart, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Futures yesterday settled above $103.39 a barrel,
the 61.8 percent Fibonacci retracement of the decline to $32.40
in December 2008 from an intraday record high of $147.27 in July
that year. Investors typically buy contracts when prices exceed
technical resistance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  