-- Yankees Lose as Gardner Whiffs in Team-Record 16th Straight Game
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-07-09T07:56:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/yankees-lose-as-gardner-whiffs-in-team-record-16th-straight-game.html
The  New York Yankees  fell to their
second straight defeat after six wins in a row, losing 5-1 to
the Kansas City Royals as outfielder  Brett Gardner  set a
franchise record by striking out for the 16th straight game.  Gardner struck out looking in the ninth inning last night
at Yankee Stadium, where Billy Butler hit a home run for the
visitors and Royals starting pitcher Jeremy Guthrie held the
Yankees scoreless until the seventh inning.  The Yankees (48-41) host the Royals (42-44) again tonight
as they attempt to remain the only American League team without
three consecutive home losses this season.  Homer Bailey of the Cincinnati Reds allowed a season-high
10 hits in last night’s 4-3 loss to the Milwaukee Brewers, the
right-hander’s first game since pitching the first no-hitter of
the Major League Baseball season. Bailey gave up two runs in the
first inning on a home run by Jonathan Lucroy and surrendered
single runs in both the second and third innings.  The Brewers held on for the win as outfielder Carlos Gomez
reached above the wall to rob Joey Votto of a go-ahead home run
with two outs in the ninth inning.  The  Oakland Athletics  beat the Pittsburgh Pirates 2-1 as
Grant Balfour notched hit 41st save in a row to surpass the
franchise record held by Hall of Fame reliever Dennis Eckersley.
Bartolo Colon got his 12th win for the A’s, tied for the second-most in the majors behind Max Scherzer of Detroit.  Scherzer, who last night was attempting to become the first
major-league pitcher since  Roger Clemens  in 1986 to start a
season with a 14-0 record, finished with a no-decision in the
Tigers’ 4-2, 10-inning win against the Cleveland Indians.
Scherzer allowed two runs over seven innings for the Tigers, who
won on  Victor Martinez ’s two-run double.  Extra Innings  The  New York  Mets needed 16 innings to beat the Giants 4-3
in the opener of a three-game series in San Francisco.  Also in extra innings, the  Atlanta Braves  scored six runs
in the 14th to beat the Miami Marlins 7-1.  The Tampa Bay Rays won for the ninth time in 10 games,
beating the Minnesota Twins 7-4 to move a season-high 10 games
over .500 with a 50-40 record.  Raul Ibanez , 41, hit his eighth home run in his past 13
games as the Seattle Mariners beat the Boston Red Sox 11-4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  