-- Yanzhou’s Yancoal Plan Contrary to Australia Approval, RBC Says
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-07-09T04:27:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/yanzhou-s-yancoal-plan-contrary-to-australia-approval-rbc-says.html
China’s  Yanzhou Coal Mining Company
Ltd. (1171) ’s plan to de-list and buy the rest of its 78 percent-owned
 Yancoal Australia Ltd. (YAL)  unit is contrary to conditions imposed by
the Australian government, Royal Bank of Canada said.  Yanzhou will offer 0.91 depository receipts for every
Yancoal share it doesn’t already own, the Shandong-based mining
company said yesterday in a  statement . The proposal values
Yancoal at 69 Australian cents, according to RBC, and values the
22 percent stake at A$151 million ($138 million), based on share
prices before the initial offer was made.  Yanzhou bought Felix Resources Ltd. for A$3.3 billion in
2009 and Gloucester Coal Ltd. for A$2.05 billion in 2012 on
government condition that Yancoal be traded in Sydney and the
Chinese company cut its holding to less than 70 percent by the
end of 2013. It appears far from certain that  Australia ’s
foreign investment regulator would allow Yanzhou’s proposed
transaction to take place, said RBC’s Chris Drew.  “Rather than have Yanzhou selling down its interest,
Yanzhou is intending to take Yancoal private,” Chris Drew, a
Sydney-based analyst with RBC said today in an e-mailed report.
The proposed transaction moves Yancoal’s ownership in the
opposite direction to that required by the Foreign Investment
Review Board at the time of the Gloucester merger, he said.  Yancoal gained 7.1 percent to 75 cents at 12:21 p.m. in
Sydney trading. Yanzhou fell 2.8 percent to HK$5.22.  Start Talks  Australia’s Treasury, which is responsible for FIRB,
doesn’t comment on foreign investment screening arrangements to
particular cases, the department said in an e-mailed response to
an inquiry from Bloomberg.  Yancoal’s independent directors are studying the proposal
and will start talks with Yanzhou before making a recommendation
to minority shareholders, the Sydney-based company said today in
a statement.  FIRB, Australia’s foreign investment regulator, examines
proposals by foreign entities to invest in the South Pacific
nation and makes recommendations to the Treasurer. FIRB in 2009
blocked state-owned  China  Non-Ferrous Metal Mining (Group) Co.
from taking control of rare earths developer Lynas Corp.  Yancoal, which closed at 70 cents on July 8, operates seven
mines in Australia’s New South Wales and Queensland states, and
is a shareholder in two ports, according to its website.  Yanzhou Coal on May 19 said it hired Deutsche Bank AG and
UBS AG as joint global coordinators for a planned sale of
dollar-denominated subordinated securities, according to a
statement to the Hong Kong stock exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  