-- Yen Tumbling 9% Splits Top Forecasters From Futures: Currencies
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-07-09T16:38:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/yen-tumbling-9-splits-top-forecasters-from-futures-currencies.html
The most accurate foreign-exchange
forecasters expect the yen to fall about 9 percent this year to
levels not seen since 2008, putting them in opposition to
futures traders who are paring bets on a decline.  Norddeutsche Landesbank,  Macquarie Bank  Ltd. and  Banco
Santander  SA, which are all calling for  Japan ’s currency to
tumble to 110 per dollar by year-end from 101.09 as of 12:36
p.m.  New York  time, were among the five top-ranked forecasters
last quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 74 banks, investors and
brokers is a less-bearish 105 level.  After the yen’s more than 20 percent depreciation since
September, futures traders are seeing less scope for similar
declines without more evidence that Japan will be able to boost
its economy while eradicating deflation with stimulus measures
that tend to debase one’s currency. For the strategists, the
Asian nation is already generating evidence of success.  Japan “is getting closer to inflation and not deflation,”
Stefan Grosse, an economist at NordLB, the No. 1 forecaster,
said in a July 3 phone interview from Hanover, Germany. “The
key is that the U.S. will exit their quantitative easing.”  100 Threshold  The yen weakened beyond the 100 per dollar threshold this
year for the first time since 2009 as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
and  Bank of Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda implemented an
unprecedented bond-buying program to help combat years of
deflation. At the same time, the  Federal Reserve  is signaling
that it’s prepared to reduce its quantitative-easing measures.  “When a central bank is printing money, the canvas on
which we paint our forecast would be one of currency weakness,”
Stuart Bennett, the head of Group of 10 currency strategy in
 London  at Banco Santander, the No. 4 forecaster, said in a July
3 phone interview. “Bearing in mind the Bank of Japan’s plan is
to double its balance sheet, they would probably want it to
continue to weaken, but maybe at a gradual rate which doesn’t
frighten its peers.”  Japan’s currency has weakened 9.1 percent this year, the
worst performer among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. It has gained 2.5
percent since sliding to an almost five-year low of 103.74 per
dollar on May 22. It last depreciated to less than 110 on Aug.
25, 2008.  Favorite Trade  After NordLB, a 200-year-old, state-owned lender, Canada’s
 Bank of Montreal (BMO)  and Macquarie Bank were the second- and third-most accurate currency forecasters in the Bloomberg Rankings
survey for the second quarter. Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce came in fifth, after Banco Santander.  Betting on a weaker yen has been a favorite trade for  hedge
funds . The difference in the number of wagers by hedge funds and
other large speculators on a decline in the yen compared with
those on a gain increased to 99,769 contracts on May 31, the
most bearish level since July 2007, figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  So-called net shorts have since been reduced to 61,462
contracts on June 25, the least since Feb. 12, after the yen
strengthened to as much as 93.79 per dollar on June 13. Bets
against the yen rose to 70,736 as of July 2.  ‘Third Arrow’  Paul Tudor Jones , who runs the macro hedge fund Tudor
Global BVI, which rose 9.5 percent this year through June 7, has
told investors the yen may not depreciate much further,
according to his clients. His Tudor Investment Corp., based in
Greenwich,  Connecticut , oversees about $13.5 billion.  Further weakness in Japan’s currency may depend on whether
investors find Abe’s legislative growth strategy, known as the
“third arrow” after monetary and fiscal stimulus, to be
credible. The reforms, which may be presented later this year,
include deregulation of the health, energy and infrastructure
sectors.  “Abe will quickly implement” the reforms, NordLB’s Grosse
wrote in an e-mail on July 2. The increasing difference in
 yields (USGG10YR)  between Treasuries and Japanese  government bonds  “will
help to depreciate the yen further as will the better shape of
the American economy,” he wrote.  Yields on 10-year Treasuries reached 1.88 percentage point
more than similar-maturity Japanese government bonds on July 5,
the most since July 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Yen Weakness  “The macro dynamic and monetary policy dynamic are still
suggesting yen weakness is the game to be playing,”  Sacha Tihanyi , a currency strategist at Scotiabank in  Hong Kong , said
today in a Bloomberg Television interview. “We’re still looking
for 105 by the end of this year,” Tihanyi said in reference to
the dollar-yen  exchange rate .  Under Kuroda, the BOJ is rolling out unprecedented monetary
easing to halt more than a decade of deflation, measures that
weakened the yen and helped make Japan the best-performing major
stock market this year.  At his first policy meeting in April, the governor pledged
to double monthly bond purchases to about 7 trillion yen ($69
billion), focused mainly on longer-maturity government debt. The
stimulus program under his predecessor,  Masaaki Shirakawa , who
stepped down in March, focused on notes maturing in one to three
years.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said June 19 the U.S. central
bank may start dialing down QE this year and end it entirely in
mid-2014 if the economy achieves what it considers to be
sustainable growth. The Fed is buying $85 billion of Treasuries
and mortgage bonds a month.  Currency Scores  The best forecasters were identified by averaging the
individual scores on margin of error, timing and directional
accuracy across 13 currency pairs in the four quarters ended
June 30. Forecasters had to be ranked in at least 8 of the 13
pairs to qualify for the overall ranking. Forty-five companies
qualified.  NordLB had a score of 62.6, while Bank of Montreal’s BMO
Capital Markets unit posted a 62.32, followed by Macquarie’s
61.7, Banco Santander’s 60.02 and Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce’s 57.37. BMO sees the yen at 105 per dollar by year-end, while CIBC has a forecast of 102.  The top yen forecaster was Germany’s Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg, which predicted a drop to 105 per dollar by year-end, Bloomberg data show. Faster inflation will drive Japanese
investors into other countries’ bonds, according to Matthias Krieger, a Stuttgart, Germany-based senior economist at LBBW.  “A lot of Japanese investors will shift their portfolios
from JGBs to foreign-currency denominated bonds and this should
weaken the yen,” Krieger said July 3 in a phone interview. “If
the world economy should stabilize, and that’s our forecast,
then Japan should overcome deflation and this would happen even
without the new policies of the Shinzo Abe government.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  