-- Myriad Genetics Sues Ambry to Thwart Rival Cancer Test
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-07-09T21:23:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/myriad-genetics-sues-ambry-to-thwart-rival-cancer-test.html
Myriad Genetics Inc., a provider of
tests for breast cancer risk, filed a lawsuit today to shut a
competitor that set up shop last month after a mixed U.S.
Supreme Court ruling on patents for genetic material.  Ambry Genetics , a closely held company in Aliso Viejo,
 California , announced June 13 it would offer the breast cancer
tests hours after a high court ruling that invalidated some of
Myriad’s patent claims on genes linked to breast and ovarian
cancer.  Myriad said the Ambry tests infringe 10 other patents it
owns or licenses on the testing process that weren’t part of
that Supreme Court case. The other owners of the patents,
comprising the University of Utah and University of
 Pennsylvania , Ontario’s Hospital for Sick Children and
Endorecherche Inc., also joined in the suit against Ambry.  The patent owners “have been damaged and have suffered
irreparable injury due to the defendant’s acts of infringement,
and will continue to suffer irreparable injury” unless stopped
by the court, they said in the complaint.  Myriad said in the complaint it’s invested more than $500
million to create a diagnostic test for hereditary breast and
ovarian cancer cases related to the genes it discovered, which
are known as BRCA1 and BRCA2. The efforts “have revolutionized
patient care and provided medical diagnosis and treatment
options never thought possible,” Myriad said in the complaint.  Ambry’s rival test will cause a loss of revenue from its
tests, which in turn will mean lower royalty payments for the
patent owners, according to the complaint. They are seeking
compensation and an order that Ambry provide to the patent
owners, including Myriad, all products that infringe the patents
so they can be destroyed.  Myriad owns five of the patents and is exclusive licensee
of the other five.  The case is University of  Utah  Research Foundation v. Ambry
Genetics, 13-640, U.S. District Court for the District of Utah.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in  Washington  at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 