-- Yuan Advances as PBOC Boosts Fixing Before U.S.-China Meeting
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2013-07-09T02:38:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/yuan-advances-as-pboc-boosts-fixing-before-u-s-china-meeting.html
The  yuan  snapped a two-day drop as
the central bank raised the currency’s reference rate by the
most in a month before Chinese and U.S. officials meet.  The People’s Bank of  China  strengthened the daily fixing by
0.12 percent to 6.1730 per dollar. Treasury Secretary Jacob J.
Lew and Secretary of State  John Kerry  will meet officials from
Beijing including Vice Premier Wang Yang at the U.S.-China
Strategic and Economic Dialogue that starts tomorrow in
 Washington . Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  plans to
attend, Obama administration officials said yesterday.  “It’s usual for China to guide the yuan stronger before
important meetings with the U.S. to cultivate a better
atmosphere,” said Kenix Lai, a foreign-exchange analyst at Bank
of East Asia Ltd. in Hong Kong. “Investors are waiting for more
data points to see where the yuan will go next.”  The yuan rose 0.05 percent to 6.1309 per dollar as of 10:10
a.m. in Shanghai, according to China Foreign Exchange Trade
System prices. The spot rate was at a 0.7 percent premium to the
fixing, compared with the maximum allowed divergence of 1
percent. The yuan has strengthened 1.6 percent this year, the
best performance among  Asia ’s 11 most-traded currencies.  China should “at an appropriate time” take measures
including depreciating the yuan periodically and increasing
credit support to exporters to stabilize growth of overseas
sales, according to a front-page commentary in the China
Securities Journal. June export data may not be “optimistic,”
according to the article, which cited an unidentified person.  Inflation Quickens  Overseas sales  probably rose 3.7 percent in June, a
Bloomberg survey showed before data due tomorrow. That compares
with a 1 percent increase in May, although still trails last
year’s monthly average growth of 8.3 percent.  Consumer prices 
advanced 2.7 percent in June from a year earlier, more than the
median estimate of 2.5 percent in a Bloomberg survey and a 2.1
percent gain in May, a report showed today.  “Inflationary pressure in China remains low so it won’t
have a big impact on the yuan,” Bank of East Asia’s Lai said.  In  Hong Kong ’s offshore market, the yuan gained 0.02
percent to 6.1363 per dollar, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards advanced 0.06 percent to
6.2938, at a 2.6 percent  discount  to the onshore spot rate.  One-month implied volatility in the onshore yuan, a measure
of expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options,
dropped seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 1.58
percent today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  