-- Zuma Fires Sexwale, Pule in S. African Cabinet Shake-Up
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2013-07-09T15:23:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-09/zuma-fires-sexwale-pule-in-south-african-cabinet-shuffle.html
South African President  Jacob Zuma 
fired Human Settlements Minister  Tokyo Sexwale  and two others in
his Cabinet as he seeks to bolster his administration’s
performance before next year’s election.  Sexwale, who aborted a bid to challenge Zuma for the top
post in the ruling  African National Congress  in 2007 and took up
a Cabinet post instead, was replaced by lawmaker and former
labor unionist Connie September. Zuma, 71, made the announcement
to reporters in the capital, Pretoria, without giving reasons
for the changes.  Dina Pule, who has been implicated in alleged corrupt
activities, was replaced as communications minister by Yunus Carrim, the deputy cooperative governance minister. He becomes
the fourth person to hold the post in four years.  Richard Baloyi  lost his position as cooperative governance
minister to Lechesa Tsenoli, the deputy minister of rural
development and land reform. Transport Minister Ben Martins and
Energy Minister Dipuo Peters traded posts.  “The government departments that are changing hands are in
need of change,” Susan Booysen, a politics professor at the
University of Johannesburg, said in a phone interview. “Zuma is
playing to the court of public opinion.”  Zuma, who took control of  Africa ’s largest economy in May
2009, is under pressure to respond to mounting disenchantment
over the government’s performance. There were a record 173
protests by poor, black township residents over a lack of
housing and basic services last year, according to Johannesburg-based research group Municipal IQ.  Housing Shortage  “Twenty years of democracy have changed the face of our
country and the last five years have pushed that change
forward,” Zuma said. “To take that change forward, I have
decided to make some changes to the national executive.”  More than 8 million South Africans lack proper housing,
government data shows.  Sexwale, one of  South Africa ’s richest black citizens who
was appointed human settlements minister in May 2009, failed to
win re-election to the ANC’s top decision-making body in
December. He was dropped after contesting the party’s deputy
presidency, a post that was won by  Cyril Ramaphosa .  Pule is currently being investigated by the police and the
Public Protector, the nation’s graft ombudsman, following
several newspaper reports alleging she was involved in
corruption. She has denied any wrongdoing.  Zuma named his parliamentary adviser John Jeffery as deputy
justice minister to replace Andries Nel, who takes over Carrim’s
post. Pamela Tshwete was appointed to replace Tsenoli, while
Michael Masutta was named deputy minister of science and
technology.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  