-- Pritzker Prize of $100,000 Won by Protesting Chinese Architect
-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 2012-02-27T17:42:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/-100k-pritzker-prize-won-by-chinese-architect.html
Architect Wang Shu’s answer to the
wholesale destruction of historic Chinese cities is to collect
the stones of demolished buildings and install them in new ones.  The Hyatt Foundation of Chicago announced today that Wang
has won the 2012  Pritzker Architecture Prize . He will receive
$100,000 and a bronze medallion this May in Beijing.  With his wife, architect Lu Wenyu, Wang runs a small firm
called  Amateur Architecture Studio , staffed mostly by students
in Hangzhou, southwest of  Shanghai . He also heads the
architecture department of the  China Academy of Art  in Hangzhou.  Wang wasn’t an obvious choice for the prestigious 34-year-
old Pritzker because he isn’t the well-established celebrity
architect such big awards often celebrate. ( Norman Foster ,  Zaha
Hadid  and  Jean Nouvel  have been winners in the past dozen
years.)  In choosing Wang, 49, the jury had a point to make.  “Over the coming decades, China’s success at urbanization
will be important to China and to the world,” said Thomas J. Pritzker, chairman of The Hyatt Foundation in a statement. The
late billionaire Jay Pritzker founded  Hyatt Hotels Corp. (H)   As it hurtles into an urban future of megacities,  China  has
obliterated centuries of urban and cultural history.  The development juggernaut leaves behind super-blocks
filled with characterless towers wrapped by vast car-clogged
boulevards.  A few years ago one fast-rising Chinese architect told me
the country will come to see its industrialized assembly-line
city-making as madness.  Amateur Architecture  Wang, in a series of idiosyncratic works, has gently
attempted to help Chinese realize what they are erasing.  Wang’s History Museum in Ningbo looks like an ancient
fortress, with tilting walls that appear eroded by centuries. Up
close the walls look weathered because they are exquisitely
composed of worn salvaged stones and old arched roof tiles that
alternate the predominant gray with bright orange patches of
squiggly terra cotta.  Inside, angled walls and narrow passages that open to grand
atrium spaces similarly evoke the mysterious qualities of the
narrow streets that twist and turn through traditional Chinese
cities.  Local officials originally hated “the dirty old
materials,” Wang said in a telephone interview. Yet people come
to the museum again and again for its evocation of the 30
picturesque area villages that disappeared in the name of
progress. The officials “gave me a formal apology,” he said.  Big and Fast  Many of the Chinese architects of Wang’s generation have
been trained in the best universities of the U.S. and  Europe ,
and have rapidly come to prominence designing massive
developments and entire cities at mind-boggling scale and speed.  By contrast, Wang trained entirely in China and set
architecture aside for several years while he learned craft
skills working with artisans.  Wang has little use for the formal coherence I expect from
Western architects. That’s especially visible in designs for the
Xiangshan Campus of the China Academy of Art.  One building seems to project arbitrarily into a pond, with
a roof that drapes between serried peaks. An external stair runs
up and down an outside wall like a graph line.  He arranged windows in elaborate decorative patterns, some
evoking traditional screens, others whimsical calligraphic
characters.  Some of Wang’s buildings make an awkward first impression;
they seem not so much designed as improvised.  “It’s 21 buildings, the scale of a small town,” said Wang
of the Xiangshan Campus. “It’s intended to look like a natural
evolution rather than one architect’s vision.”  Undisciplined to my eyes, this work must be utterly
refreshing in today’s China.  I suspect Wang is too much a hothouse flower to change the
direction of his nation’s gigantic urban-development machine.
But I commend the Pritzker jury for making him an international
messenger for humane, people-centered places.  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of Bloomberg News. He is the author of “The
Agile City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in New York at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  http://web.me.com/jscanlonrussell   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 