-- ‘Aida’ Gets Spinster, No Elephants in Ruinous Staging: Review
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2012-02-27T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/-aida-gets-spinster-needs-elephants-in-ruinous-staging-warwick-thompson.html
After the exotic character names
“Amneris” and “Amonasro” listed in the program for Verdi’s
opera “Aida,” it’s odd to see a character called “Amelia
Edwards.”  Is she Aida’s long-lost English twin? Her pet cat?  Either of those ideas would work better than the reality.
In Stephen Medcalf’s new staging, funded by impresario Raymond Gubbay at  London ’s Royal Albert Hall, she’s a prim non-singing
Victorian archaeologist.  We first see her poking around dusty Egyptian ruins with
her parasol. The overture starts and, as if a dream, ancient
priests and slaves appear before her and start singing.  “Celestial Aida, you are the queen of my thoughts,”
warbles the love-stricken warrior Radames.  The silent virago (played by Charlotte Medcalf) looks on
from a distance, suitably shocked at the hero’s deplorable want
of decorum.  Later, Ethiopian prisoners wail “Mercy” while Egyptian
priests poke them with sticks and cry “Crush, oh King, this
savage rabble.”  The unimpressed spinster, rather in the manner of Lady
Bracknell, manages to suggest by the sheer force of her silent
frostiness that a good dose of gripe-water and an early bedtime
with no supper would be the best way to cure such fractiousness.  Unendurable  Framing devices are problematic at the best of times. This
one is so irritating it makes you want to rip out all your teeth
and then start work on your neighbor’s.  It tries to convey the idea, I guess, that “Aida” is a
product of Victorian Orientalist ideologies: The director wants
us to see the tale through a 19th-century lens.  Of a triple-cast show, I saw Indra Thomas (Aida) and Marc
Heller (Radames). Both are stodgy actors capable of turning an
attractive phrase, even if their voices have some weak spots.  For inexplicable reasons, director Medcalf has Aida
strangled by the High Priest, though she does revive for the
last duet with Radames.  “I made my way here by stealth,” she sings to him. “I
wished to die in your arms.”  So is that why she got herself strangled then? How clever
of her.  Tiziano Carraro (Amneris), looking slinky and vampish in a
close-fitting white dress, has fire in her belly, and knows how
to make a big gesture count for something. She has a good mezzo
sound too, even if it lacks an ideal boominess in her chest
register.  Many Ruins  Designer Isabella Bywater sets all the action among
archaeological ruins. Three screens cover the massive Royal
Albert Hall pipe organ, and periodically display images of the
Nile and ceremonial Egyptian architecture.  Even so, the famous Grand March doesn’t go with as much
swing and grandeur as it needs to, despite plenty of dancers and
extra actors, and some solid conducting from Andrew Greenwood.  A quick search reveals that Amelia Edwards (1831-1892) was
a real-life writer who became a pioneering Egyptologist. It’s a
mite sad that her fascinating achievements have been relegated
to the sidelines of a muddle-headed “Aida.”  Rating: *½.  “Aida” is at the Royal Albert Hall,  Kensington Gore ,
SW7 2AP, until March 11. Information:
 http://www.royalalberthall.com  or +44-20-7589-8212  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 