-- ‘Cowardly’ Afghanistan Attacks Won’t Deter U.S., Pentagon Says
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2012-02-28T03:12:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/-cowardly-attacks-won-t-weaken-u-s-resolve-on-afghan-war-1-.html
Pentagon officials said they would
stick by U.S. strategy in Afghanistan in the face of “cowardly
attacks” on U.S.-led forces as a suicide car-bombing killed
nine Afghans and wounded two American soldiers.  “We work alongside thousands of Afghans every single day”
to improve conditions in the country,  George Little , a Pentagon
spokesman, told reporters yesterday after a week of protests
over the burning of Korans at a U.S. air base led to deadly
protests and attacks on U.S. personnel in the war-torn nation.
“And nothing that has happened over the past week is going to
deter us from that goal.”  The U.S.-led coalition in Afghanistan aims to weaken the
Taliban to force the insurgents into peace talks, while training
the Afghan army and police to take over security by the end of
2014. The turmoil of the past week undercuts the Obama
administration’s contention that security in Afghanistan is
improving, according to Seth Jones, a senior political scientist
at the Rand Corp., a research institute in Arlington, Virginia.  “It makes it much more difficult to sell that argument
with events like the rioting and instability and then suicide
attacks that have all come together,” Jones, who worked in
Afghanistan last year for the U.S. military’s Special Operations
Command, said in an interview.  While Pentagon officials said yesterday that protests
across Afghanistan were easing, coalition advisers remained
barred from Afghan ministries out of fear for their safety and
authorities searched for a suspect in the weekend killings of
two Americans assisting the Interior Ministry.  The Taliban claimed credit for yesterday’s car bombing in
eastern Afghanistan, police said.  Karzai’s Call  President  Hamid Karzai  and other Afghan and coalition
officials have called for an end to the violence sparked when
Afghan workers at the main U.S. military base near Kabul
discovered copies of the Koran being burned in a trash dump.
U.S. officials said the treatment of the Korans was
inappropriate and unintentional and are conducting a joint
investigation with Afghan authorities.  The number of protests dropped from 24 three days ago,
involving 11,000 Afghans, to three yesterday with participants
only in the hundreds, and one of those focused on unrelated land
disputes, according to Navy Captain John Kirby, a Pentagon
spokesman who appeared via video link from Kabul for the
briefing with Little.  Any easing of tensions over the Koran-burning isn’t likely
to rescue a strategy that “has been dying for a long time,”
said  Anthony Cordesman , a military analyst at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies in  Washington .  Taliban’s Resilience  The U.S.-led effort in Afghanistan has been hobbled for
years by the resilience of the Taliban and aligned militant
groups in neighboring Pakistan, as well as by Afghan government
corruption, Pakistan’s tolerance of insurgents and the
coalition’s careless and half-hearted investments of money and
personnel, Cordesman said in an e-mailed statement.  The Pentagon has said there’s been no waning of
determination as a result of the past week’s events. Defense
Secretary  Leon Panetta  and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
General Martin Dempsey are “fully committed” to proceeding
with the U.S. strategy in  Afghanistan , Little said.  The coalition plans to shift increasingly away from a lead
role in combat in the next year and toward intensified training
and advising. That plan rests on the ability of the two sides to
work together day-to-day.  The U.S. has 89,000 troops in Afghanistan, along with
40,000 from other nations, and all have begun to pare their
numbers.  Americans Killed  “It is clearer and clearer that even spending through 2014
is having to be steadily cut back, allied force commitments keep
dropping, and there is far more popular and bipartisan
congressional support for an exit than anyone wants to admit in
an election year,” Cordesman said.  Marine General John Allen, the top U.S. and NATO commander
in Afghanistan, recalled all coalition advisers from Afghan
ministries in and around Kabul over the weekend after two
American officers, a lieutenant colonel and a major, were shot
in the back of the head in the heavily guarded Interior
Ministry. The shootings followed the killing of two other U.S.
soldiers in the country’s east last week as the protests over
the Koran burning began.  Allen cautioned military commanders elsewhere in the
country to take precautions as they saw fit, and most operations
are continuing as usual, according to Kirby.  Coalition troops just completed a successful multi-day
operation with more than 900 Afghan army forces in the country’s
south to weaken any potential resurgence of militant attacks
with the onset of the fighting season as winter ends, Kirby
said.  ‘Little More Vigilant’  “Clearly everybody’s going to be a little more vigilant
right now -- that’s the right thing to do,” Kirby said. “But
the mission itself continues.”  Afghan authorities and the coalition are pursuing the
alleged suspect in the Interior Ministry shooting, he said. The
two sides also are evaluating the threat and how coalition
advisers might be better protected in the future.  While President  Barack Obama  and the coalition have
apologized for the Koran burnings, viewed in the Muslim religion
as desecration of the holy book, Afghan leaders have apologized
for the deaths of the coalition soldiers.  “We have taken responsibility for what we have done over
the past week,” Little said. “The Afghans have taken
responsibility as well. And I think that is a key measure of
trust.”  ‘Nowhere Close’  The instability may be all the more reason to stand fast,
Jones of the Rand Corp. said.  “They would be leaving behind a situation that is nowhere
close to being finalized,” Jones said.  Al-Qaeda cells remain in Afghanistan and multiple terror
groups operate across the porous border in  Pakistan , including
 Ayman al-Zawahiri , Osama bin Laden’s successor as the leader of
al-Qaeda, Jones said. That raises the risk that a direct threat
to the U.S. could reconstitute itself within Afghanistan’s
borders as it did after the U.S. left the region in the
aftermath of the Soviet withdrawal in the late 1980s, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  