-- ‘The Artist’ Wins Best Picture, Directing Oscars in Bow to Silent-Film Era
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-02-27T21:02:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/-the-artist-wins-best-picture-oscar.html
“The Artist,” a black-and-white
film with just a few words of dialog, won Oscars for best
picture, director and actor as Hollywood continued to honor
smaller-budget films.  Michel Hazanavicius  captured best director for the mostly
silent film and  Jean Dujardin  was honored as best actor for
playing George Valentin, an aging film star unable to make it in
talking pictures.  Meryl Streep  won best actress for playing
 Margaret Thatcher  in “The Iron Lady.” The Oscars were handed
out last night at the 84th Academy Awards, hosted by  Billy Crystal , at the Hollywood & Highland Center in Los Angeles.  As in past years, academy voters shunned top-grossing films
focusing on lower-budget, less-seen movies such as “The
Artist,” which cost about $15 million, according to Box Office
Mojo, a researcher.  Martin Scorsese ’s “Hugo,” which tied “The
Artist” with five awards, was the costliest at $170 million.  “When people love the movie, it’s not very difficult,
because you’re not selling, you’re not promoting,” said
Hazanavicius backstage. “You just smile and say, ‘thank you.’”  Streep, 62, captured her third Oscar for her portrayal of
Thatcher, the former British prime minister. Her 17 lifetime
nominations are tops for the industry, according to the
academy’s database. Streep’s win was among the few upsets, based
on betting lines from  Paddy Power Plc (PAP) , a British oddsmaker.  “It was like I was a kid again,” Streep said backstage.
“I understand Streep fatigue, and it shocked me it didn’t
override this thing tonight.”  Box Office  Of nine films nominated for best picture, “The Help” from
DreamWorks Studios and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  leads among fans with
$206.7 million in worldwide ticket sales, according to Box
Office Mojo. “Hugo” has collected $115.8 million in worldwide
ticket sales and “The Artist” has taken in $76.5 million.  With the Oscar, “The Artist” became the second silent
film to win best picture. “Wings” was crowned outstanding
picture at the first Academy Awards on May 16, 1929, at the
Hollywood Roosevelt Hotel, steps from this year’s ceremony.
“The Artist” was shot in  Los Angeles .  “They must be going nuts in  France  right now,” Crystal
said after the award for the 39-year-old Frenchman Dujardin.  The picture produced five awards for Weinstein Co., the
closely held New York-based studio that distributed “The
Artist” in the U.S. “Hugo” generated five Oscars for  Viacom
Inc. (VIAB) ’s Paramount, which also grabbed best animated feature for
“Rango.”  First Oscar  Christopher Plummer, 82, became the oldest Oscar winner for
his role in the film “Beginners,” about a man who comes out as
gay late in life. Octavia Spencer won best-supporting actress
for her role as the sharp-tongued housemaid Minny Jackson in
“The Help,” about the sometimes-tense relationship between
black maids and the white women who employ them.  The nomination was Plummer’s second in more than 40 years
of acting and his only win. The film, from  Universal Pictures ’
Focus Features, stars  Ewan McGregor  and took in $14.3 million
worldwide, according to Box Office Mojo.  “When I first emerged from my mother’s womb, I was already
rehearsing my academy speech,” Plummer said.  Scorsese’s “Hugo” won Oscars for best cinematography, art
direction, sound mixing, sound editing and visual effects. “The
Artist” also won for best costume design and best original
score.  Paris Station  The director’s first 3-D movie, “Hugo” tells the story of
an orphaned boy who lives secretly within the walls and clock
tower of a Paris train station. The film stars Asa Butterfield,
Chloe Grace Moretz and Ben Kingsley. Scorsese captured the
Golden Globe award for directing for the film.  Woody Allen  was honored for best original screenplay for
“Midnight in Paris,” about a writer who goes back in time to
meet Ernest Hemingway and  Pablo Picasso .  Owen Wilson  played the
lead role of the writer Gil.  “A Separation,” from  Iran , won the Oscar for best foreign
language film. Written and directed by Asghar Farhadi, the movie
centers on a couple deciding whether to divorce. The best
documentary feature Oscar was awarded to “Undefeated,” which
follows players on an inner-city high school football team in
 Tennessee .  This year’s ceremony marked the return of actor Crystal as
host, after  Eddie Murphy  and producer Brett Ratner quit in
November amid criticism over controversial remarks Ratner made
about gays.  Boost Box-Office  The awards come against the backdrop of a tough 2011 at
home for Hollywood, with theater attendance falling 5.3 percent
to a 16-year low and spending on home-video shrinking 2.1
percent, according to Hollywood.com and the Digital
Entertainment Group, a studio-backed trade association.  Best-picture nominations and the publicity that follows
boost box-office and home-video sales for Oscar contenders.
Ticket sales for last year’s winner, “The King’s Speech” rose
41 percent on the first weekend after its nomination.  The Oscar show, which often ranks as the most-watched
single, non-sports telecast, attracted 39.3 million viewers, an
increase of 3.7 percent from the 37.9 million viewers last year,
according to ABC, which cited Nielsen data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  