-- Adobe Releases Photo-Editing Software for Apple’s IPad
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-02-27T21:27:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/adobe-releases-photograph-editing-software-for-apple-s-ipad.html
Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE) , taking another
step toward making its software more compatible with  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s devices, released a pared-down version of Photoshop
editing software for the iPad.  Photoshop Touch, a tablet-computer version of Adobe’s
Photoshop, includes features for combining images and applying
photo effects to create printed pages and websites. The
software, which already runs on Google Inc.’s Android operating
system, will sell for $9.99 in Apple’s iTunes  App Store . Adobe
planned an announcement today to mark the start of the  Mobile
World Congress , scheduled to run through March 1 in Barcelona.  Adobe, the largest maker of graphic-design software, is
delivering more tablet- and Web-based versions of programs as it
moves beyond personal-computer software. The  San Jose ,
California-based company is also adapting products for the
increasingly popular HTML 5 programming language and cloud-
computing software.  The changes are intended to accommodate an industry shift
away from Adobe’s older Flash technology and ensure that Adobe
programs run on devices from Apple, which had barred Flash from
iPhones and iPads.  In addition to the iPad version of Photoshop Touch, Adobe
released a test version of Air software that lets Flash
developers create applications running on Android and on Apple’s
iOS operating system.  Game Performance  Air 3.2 includes the ability for applications to use
graphics processors in tablets and smartphones to improve the
performance of games, Danny Winokur, an Adobe vice president,
said in a telephone interview. The final version of the software
will be released in March.  Another new product, Project Primetime, will let
broadcasters publish copy-protected Internet videos while
enjoying the ability to insert ads and measure viewership.  Adobe’s creative-solutions division  supplied 41 percent  of
the company’s gross profit last quarter and delivered a gross
margin of 97 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
In November, Adobe said it would concentrate its development and
sales on digital publishing and advertising to seek new revenue
streams.  The company’s Digital Publishing Suite is used by companies
such as  Martha Stewart Omnimedia Inc. (MSO)  and Conde Nast
Publications to create tablet-computer versions of magazines.
Readers downloaded about 16 million digital issues  created with
the software in the past 12 months, Winokur said.  Adobe fell less than 1 percent to $33.27 at the close in
 New York . The shares have lost 3.9 percent in the past 12
months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  