-- Maersk Says Container Line Will Lose Money Again as Freight Rates Decline
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2012-02-27T09:53:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/maersk-profit-drops-as-falling-freight-rates-push-container-line-to-loss.html
A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB)  said
its container line, the world’s largest, will report a loss
again this year, depressed by lower freight rates and slower
market growth.  Maersk’s container division had a net loss of 2.88 billion
kroner ($521 million) last year compared with a profit of
14.9 billion kroner a year earlier, the Copenhagen-based company
said today in a statement. That exceeded an estimated loss of
2.28 billion kroner in a survey by SME Direkt. The container
result for 2012 will be “negative” as overcapacity will
continue to hurt the market, Maersk said today.  Global  rates  have dropped because the industry has added
too many ships in anticipation of an economic recovery, causing
overcapacity. Container demand growth will slow to as little as
4 percent this year compared with 7 percent in 2011, while
expansion on Maersk’s most important lane,  Asia  to Europe, will
be lower than the global average, the company said today. Maersk
also predicted that earnings from its oil division will decline.  “We agree with Maersk on the challenges seen in the liner
industry and while the recent rate increases will lift earnings
somewhat, it does not seem to be sustainable,” Erik Nikolai
Stavseth, an Oslo-based analyst at Arctic Securities, said in
a note to clients today.  Maersk  fell  as much as 4.4 percent to 43,520 kroner in
Copenhagen trading and was down 2.3 percent at 10:42 a.m. That
pared the stock’s gain this year to 17 percent.  Higher Rates  To help restore  earnings , Maersk has said it will increase
freight rates on Asia- Europe  trade. The company said Feb. 17
that it will cut 9 percent of capacity on the route.  Maersk is “positive” that it will succeed in raising
rates even as industry overcapacity adds “risk” to the
ambition, Chief Financial Officer Trond Westlie said today on a
conference call with analysts. The container unit may consider
cutting capacity further, the CFO said in a Bloomberg television
interview earlier today.  Maersk, which has a market share of about 16 percent, said
the industry may increase capacity by about 10 percent in 2012
as shipping lines launch new ships they have already ordered.  Global freight rates dropped 25 percent last year on
average, according to RS Platou Markets AS. Prices fell the
most on Asia-to-Europe routes where the decline was almost
60 percent, the Oslo-based broker said in a Jan. 4 note.  Oil Pressure  Parent company Maersk’s 2011 net income fell to 15.2
billion kroner from 26.5 billion kroner a year earlier. That
compared with an average estimate of 14.8 billion kroner in a
Bloomberg survey of 13 analysts. Sales rose 2.3 percent to
323 billion kroner.  The company,  Denmark ’s biggest, was helped by the
performance of its oil and gas unit. The division recorded net
income of 11 billion kroner last year compared with 9.33 billion
kroner a year earlier, helped by higher  oil prices .  Maersk Oil’s (MAERSKB)  earnings this year will be “significantly
below” results in 2011, the company said today. The unit will
have a reduced share of production in Qatar, and earnings will
also slip on the maturation of fields in the  North Sea , it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  