-- Maersk Bets Against European Recovery
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2012-02-28T11:22:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/maersk-bets-against-european-recovery-as-recession-kills-trade.html
Maersk Line (MAERSKB)  is betting European
efforts to escape a recession this year will fail as the world’s
biggest shipping company shifts its business away from the debt-
plagued region.  “We think there will be negative growth in  Europe  this
year and that is affecting our view of Asia-Europe trade,”
Trond O. Westlie, chief financial officer of  A.P. Moeller-Maersk
A/S (MAERSKB) , the owner of  Maersk Line , said yesterday in an interview in
Copenhagen. “The solution that Europe is trying to take is
different from the solution that the U.S. is taking. We believe
that general growth will be higher in the U.S.”  Europe’s bid to end its crisis by imposing budget cuts on
its most indebted members is showing signs of choking economic
growth. The 17-nation euro area will shrink 0.3 percent this
year, as eight countries suffer economic contractions, the
European Commission said last week. European imports fell 0.9
percent in December and Maersk, the largest carrier on the Asia-
to-Europe route, plans to cut 22,000 containers a week to
respond to the slump. That represents about 2 percent of the
region’s sea-borne trade.  “The world is going to have slow growth, things are going
to be volatile and this will be the case for a somewhat long
period of time,” Westlie said. “Our effective growth rate is
going to be challenged because we have a relatively higher
exposure to Asia-to-Europe trade compared to our exposure
elsewhere in the  world .”  Container Losses  Maersk’s container unit lost 2.88 billion kroner ($521
million) in 2011, compared with a 14.9 billion-krone profit a
year earlier. The division last year generated 39 percent of its
volume from the Asia-to-Europe route, where container  rates 
slumped 19 percent, Maersk said yesterday.  The  company’s shares , which lost 25 percent in 2011, rose
0.4 percent as of 12:14 p.m. local time to 44,000 kroner.  “Maersk won’t scale down on Asia-Europe, it’s too
important a route for them in the long term,” said  Jacob Pedersen , an analyst at Sydbank A/S. “But as other markets grow
faster we will see a development -- driven by basic math -- with
Europe becoming relatively less important for the company, and
 Africa  and Latin America growing in importance.”  Maersk, which is also struggling to adjust to over-
capacity, has responded to Europe’s turmoil by deploying fewer
ships for the route. The company said Feb. 17 it will cut
capacity on Asia-to-Europe trade by 9 percent in an effort to
avoid further losses. In contrast, Maersk has no immediate plans
to cut vessels to the U.S. or high-growth markets, Westlie said.  Europe’s Issues  “The question as to when we’ll see demand picking up
depends on when euro-zone leaders will come together and resolve
their issues -- and there are quite a few issues,” he said.  Euro area leaders have yet to agree on how to bolster their
rescue fund as U.S. policy makers including Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  have urged Europe to make crisis-fighting
efforts “credible.”  The  U.S. economy  will grow 2.2 percent this year, versus a
0.4 percent contraction in the euro area, according to the
median of economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Brazil  and
 South Africa  will both expand 3.4 percent, the estimates show.  Global container volumes will grow 4 percent to 6 percent
in 2012, down from 7 percent in 2011, Maersk said yesterday.
Volumes for Asia-to-Europe trade will grow less than the global
average, while trade involving Latin America and Africa will
beat average levels, the company estimates.  Maersk last year added ships to its African and Latin
American services, where volumes increased 19 percent and 17
percent, respectively. The company is channeling  investments 
into growth markets outside western Europe as it seeks to
benefit from more “stable” container rates, it said.  “We have been good at focusing on our positions in Africa
and  Latin America ,” Westlie said. “We have a good position in
those two regions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  