-- African Rainbow Minerals First-Half Profit Rises 27% on Sales, Weaker Rand
-- B y   J a n a   M a r a i s
-- 2012-02-27T06:07:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/african-rainbow-minerals-first-half-profit-rises-27-on-sales-weaker-rand.html
African Rainbow Minerals Ltd. (ARI) , a
diversified South African mining company, said first-half profit
jumped 27 percent as sales volumes of its products surged and it
benefited from a weaker local currency.  Net income for the six months through December increased to
1.98 billion rand ($261 million), from 1.56 billion rand, the
Johannesburg-based company said in a statement today. Iron-ore
sales surged 68 percent as the Khumani expansion project, in
partnership with Assore Ltd., was ahead of schedule.  A decline in the dollar price of manganese ore, manganese
alloys, nickel and platinum group metals was balanced by a
weaker rand, the company said. The average rand-dollar  exchange
rate  slid 7 percent to 7.6227 rand in the six months compared
with the same period in 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “We are making substantial progress with our growth
projects and are excited about government’s stated commitment to
allocate huge resources to upgrade rail, port and electricity
infrastructure,” Chairman Patrice Motsepe said in a separate e-
mailed statement. “This will support and enhance our aggressive
growth strategy.”  The ferrous unit, which includes  iron ore , chrome and
manganese assets, accounted for 2 billion rand of earnings
excluding one-time items, from 1.26 billion rand a year earlier.  African Rainbow has approved capital of 885 million rand to
develop a new pit at the Beeshoek Iron Ore mine, which will
extend production to July 2014, it said.  Zambia Investment  Eighty-seven percent of the $399 million approved  capital
spending  for the Konkola North copper project African Rainbow is
developing with Vale SA in Zambia has been committed, the
company said today. Commissioning of the concentrator plant is
expected in December 2012, it said.  African Rainbow mines coal in partnership with Xstrata Plc,
platinum group metals with Anglo American Platinum Ltd. and
Impala Platinum Ltd., and nickel with MCC Norilsk Nickel OJSC.
It holds a 14.8 percent stake in Harmony Gold Mining Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Marais in Johannesburg at 
 jmarais@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  