-- African Rainbow Appoints Bankers to Advise on Platinum Deals
-- B y   J a n a   M a r a i s
-- 2012-02-27T15:38:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/african-rainbow-appoints-bankers-to-advise-on-platinum-deals-2-.html
African Rainbow Minerals Ltd. (ARI) , the
South African mining company controlled by billionaire Patrice Motsepe, appointed merchant banks to advise it on potential
platinum deals, its chief executive officer said.  “We hope to make the first announcement in the next two to
three months,” Andre Wilkens said today in an interview. The
Johannesburg-based company would prefer assets close to its
current operations that it can control rather than buying stakes
in listed companies, he said.  Motsepe is looking at platinum assets because “now is the
best time” to invest in the metal, he said at a presentation
earlier. African Rainbow and  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , or
Amplats, own the Modikwa platinum mine and control the Two
Rivers mine in partnership with Impala Platinum Ltd. Both are in
 South Africa ’s platinum-rich Bushveld Igneous complex.  Amplats and Impala, the two biggest miners of the metal,
face rising labor and electricity costs in South Africa and
demands for increased local ownership in Zimbabwe.  Anglo
American Plc (AAL) , which owns about 77 percent of Amplats, said Feb.
17 that it will review its platinum business, which is failing
to generate acceptable returns.  ‘Close Relationship’  Wilkens said there are “no formal discussions” with
Amplats about possible asset purchases. African Rainbow will
“see what becomes available” when Amplats decides to sell
assets, he said today on a conference call. African Rainbow has
“a close relationship” with Amplats, which hasn’t indicated
“exactly what they want to do.”  On events in  Zimbabwe , Motsepe said African Rainbow may
make platinum investments in the country.  “We are looking, and we will allocate” resources in South
Africa and Zimbabwe, Motsepe told investors today in
Johannesburg. “I think Zimbabwe will come around, it has to.”  The Zimbabwean government said Impala must transfer 29.5
percent of its Zimplats unit to a Zimbabwe government fund in
order to meet local ownership requirements, a letter to the
company from the indigenization minister obtained by Bloomberg
News shows.  Cars, Jewelry  African Rainbow has nobody “actively looking” at platinum
in Zimbabwe, Wilkens said on the call. “We’re keeping our ears
on the ground.”  The metal, used in devices that cut car emissions and to
make jewelry, declined 0.3 percent to $1,707.50 an ounce by 3:03
p.m. in  London , almost 26 percent below the 2008 record of
$2,301.50.  African Rainbow slid 2.1 percent by the 5 p.m. close in
Johannesburg. The FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index also closed
1.1 percent lower.  The mining company intends to increase production at its
Modikwa venture to 500,000 platinum group metal ounces, expand
 iron ore  output beyond 16 million metric tons a year and double
manganese production to 6 million tons, it said.  African Rainbow has approved spending of 885 million rand
($116 million) to develop a new pit at the Beeshoek Iron Ore
mine, which will extend output to July 2014. African Rainbow
produces iron ore and manganese in partnership with  Assore Ltd. (ASR)   “We are making substantial progress with our growth
projects and are excited about government’s stated commitment to
allocate huge resources to upgrade rail, port and electricity
infrastructure,” Motsepe said in a separate e-mailed statement.
“This will support and enhance our aggressive growth
strategy.”  African Rainbow mines coal in partnership with  Xstrata Plc (XTA) 
and nickel with MCC Norilsk Nickel OJSC. It holds a 14.8 percent
stake in Harmony Gold Mining Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Marais in Johannesburg at 
 jmarais@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  