-- Thai Baht Declines for Second Day as Central Bank May Intervene
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-02-27T08:52:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/thai-baht-declines-for-second-day-as-central-bank-may-intervene.html
Thailand ’s baht dropped by the most
in three weeks on speculation the central bank will limit gains
to support exporters recovering from last year’s floods.  The Bank of Thailand intervened in the market this year,
Deputy Governor Suchada Kirakul said on Feb. 24 when the
currency reached a five-month high of 30.22 per dollar. The baht
has advanced 1.5 percent this month, the best performance among
 Asia ’s most-actively traded currencies, as overseas investors
purchased $1.4 billion more Thai equities than they sold,
exchange data show.  “The central bank knows exporters in Thailand are trying
to recover from last year’s floods and the sharp appreciation of
the baht is definitely not welcome,” said  Hideki Hayashi , a
researcher at the Japan Center for  Economic Research  in  Tokyo .
“Funds are flowing into Asia and that may continue to support
the regional currencies.”  The baht dropped 0.3 percent to 30.48 per dollar as of 3:46
p.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
was the biggest decline since Feb. 6.  Thailand’s industrial  output  fell the least in four months
in January as companies resumed operations and supply-chain
disruptions eased after the floods. The industrial production
index dropped for a fifth month, slipping 15 percent from a year
earlier, after a revised 25 percent contraction in December, the
Office of Industrial Economics said today.  Government trade data due this week may show exports were
unchanged from a year earlier in January after decreasing in the
previous two months, according to the median forecast of
economists in a Bloomberg survey. Thailand’s target for export
growth of 15 percent this year is “achievable” as companies
start to run plants at full capacity again, Commerce Minister
Boonsong Teriyapirom said on Feb. 23.  The yield on the 3.25 percent notes due June 2017 was
little changed at 3.27 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 