-- AIJ Told Investors Fund Returned 241% Since 2002 Start on Nikkei Options
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 2012-02-27T10:49:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/aij-told-investors-fund-returned-241-since-2002-start-on-nikkei-options.html
AIJ Investment Advisors Co. ,
suspended by  Japan ’s financial regulator, told investors one of
its funds returned 241 percent since it started in May 2002 by
mainly trading Nikkei 225 options, according to a newsletter
obtained by Bloomberg News.  The Financial Services Agency on Feb. 24 ordered the Tokyo-
based firm with 183.2 billion yen ($2.3 billion) of client money
to stop business for a month as the FSA investigates it for
possible losses, leading to a nationwide probe of 263 asset
managers, the biggest ever of the nation’s funds industry. The
return of AIJ’s AIM Millennium fund since inception compares
with a 22 percent drop by the benchmark  Topix Index (TPX) , according
to the four-page October 2011 newsletter in Japanese.  Alternative investment managers that eschew traditional
investments such as stocks, bonds and cash have come under
scrutiny in the past four years, since the collapse of hedge
funds run by Bear Stearns Cos. in 2007.  Bernard Madoff  was
arrested in 2008 for operating the largest Ponzi scheme in U.S.
history and hedge fund Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam was found guilty in May on insider-trading charges.  “The similarity in the Madoff situation and the AIJ
situation is not necessarily the investment strategy, but the
excessive degree of trust both fund managers inspired in people
similar to themselves,” said Frank Packard, the president of
Triple A Partners Japan Co., a Tokyo-based investment manager
and adviser regarding hedge funds. “The strategies at both
firms seem to promise high returns, in fact both appear to have
been bogus.”  Wider Investigation  The Millennium fund invested in Nikkei 225 options and
futures as well as private equity, using an index that AIJ
created to gauge whether markets were overbought or underbought,
according to presentation materials provided to a pension fund
that were obtained by Bloomberg News. The undated presentation
document didn’t name the pension fund.  AIM Investment Advisors Ltd. in the British Virgin Islands
was listed as the manager of the fund, which was a private
placement open-ended unit trust, and the fund was registered in
the  Cayman Islands , the 13-page document in Japanese said. Bank
of  Bermuda , a unit of HSBC Holdings Plc, was listed as the fund
administrator. Margrit Chang, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for
HSBC, declined to comment.  The investigation of the 263 asset managers is the biggest
into the Japanese fund industry, according to a regulatory
official, who asked not to be identified because the matter is
sensitive. In a typical year, officials conduct routine
inspections of about 15 asset managers, the official said. The
funds themselves provide an annual report.  Absolute Returns  Regulators have been investigating AIJ since the end of
January, and discovered that the company has been unable to
explain to investors the current state of the way their money is
being managed, according to the FSA.  “This is a so-called alternative investment fund and
unlike traditional assets such as equities and bonds, the aim is
to secure absolute returns regardless of the market
directions,” the newsletter said. It noted the strategy is able
to provide stable returns even when bond and stock markets drop
and that the fund was no longer taking in new investments.  AIM Millennium’s return since it was started in 2002
compared with a 16 percent gain by the Nomura BPI benchmark for
domestic bonds during the same period, according to the
newsletter.  ITM Securities  Japan’s hedge fund industry has more than halved to manage
$16.1 billion, down from a peak of $39 billion in 2006, and
compares with $109 billion managed by funds in Asia outside of
Japan, according to Eurekahedge Pte, a Singapore-based data
provider. Japan-focused  hedge funds  lost 4.1 percent in 2011 as
global peers suffered their second-worst year on record amid
 Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis and concerns of an economic
slowdown worldwide.  AIJ, led by Kazuhiko Asakawa, was established in April 1989,
and had 120 clients including pension plans with 183.2 billion
yen in assets as of the end of 2010, according to a statement
from the FSA. It has 12 employees. Phone calls to AIJ’s main
office were answered by an automatic recording which didn’t
allow messages to be recorded.  The newsletter cited ITM Securities Co. as the distributor
of the fund. Yasuo Tsuneyoshi at ITM’s planning department said
the firm sold AIJ’s funds to pensions, declining to further
comment until the investigation is completed. ITM was
established in June 1998 and started business in September 1998,
according to its website.  Lights at ITM’s office on the seventh floor of the
Nihombashi-Dori Ni-Chome Building in  Tokyo ’s Nihombashi district
were switched off today, and the only indication of recent
activity was a container of hand sanitizing liquid on a table
outside the locked door.  Trusting Investors  AIJ also listed two other funds in the newsletter, with
returns of 32 percent and 22 percent since their inceptions. The
funds were based in Cayman Islands, according to the newsletter,
which provided monthly and annual returns on its funds.  Among corporate pension plans that put money with AIJ are
Advantest Corp., a maker of memory-chip testers, Yaskawa
Electric Corp. and a truck driver pension plan.  “Everybody needs to do their homework and correct due
diligence” regardless of who they’re investing with, said
Triple A Partners’s Packard. “This should be a wake-up call to
the fiduciary responsibilities, both for regulators and
investment managers.”  Madoff, serving a 150-year sentence in a U.S. federal
prison, cost investors $50 billion before he was arrested in
December 2008 and charged with operating a long-running  Ponzi
scheme  in the New York-based firm’s business advising rich
people, hedge funds and institutions.  Madoff had kept his firm’s financial statements under lock
and key and was “cryptic” about its advisory activities when
discussing them with employees, the U.S. Securities Exchange
Commission said in a lawsuit against him at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Singapore at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  