-- Thailand Manufacturing Output Decline Eases as Factories Resume Production
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2012-02-27T07:50:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/thailand-manufacturing-output-decline-eases-as-factories-resume-production.html
Thailand’s  industrial output  fell
the least in four months in January as companies resumed
operations and supply-chain disruptions eased after the nation’s
worst floods in almost 70 years.  The  industrial production  index dropped for a fifth
straight month, slipping 15.15 percent from a year earlier,
after a 25 percent contraction in December, the Office of
Industrial Economics said in a statement in Bangkok today. The
median of five estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 14
percent decline.  Southeast Asia ’s second-largest economy may expand by as
much as 6.5 percent this year on reconstruction activities after
the floods, the National Economic and Social Development Board
said earlier this month. The central bank cut  interest rates  in
the last two meetings to aid recovery and cushion the impact of
 Europe ’s debt crisis, which has hurt Asian exporters from
 Singapore  to  Taiwan .  “All companies are at full speed to rebuild after the
floods,” Kampon Adireksombat, an economist at Tisco Securities
Co. in Bangkok, said before the report. “We expect the
manufacturing sector to return to normal as early as the second
quarter.”  Capacity utilization rose to 58.48 percent in January from
a revised 51.94 percent in December. The hard-disk drive, auto
and electronics industries have shown an improvement after the
floods, Aphiwat Asamaporn, deputy director-general of the Office
of Industrial Economics, told reporters today.  Improving Trend  “The manufacturing trend is improving as more and more
plants are resuming operations after the floods,” he said. “We
expect the contraction to be smaller in the following months and
the index may turn positive near the end of the second quarter.”  Western Digital Corp.’s two factories in  Thailand  will
resume full production early in the second half of this year,
Chief Executive Officer John Coyne said Jan. 16. Honda Motor Co.
said Jan. 31 it has made progress in restoring its Thai
facilities and expected to resume production by the end of March.  Thai exports in January rose 1.2 percent from a year
earlier to $16.9 billion, while imports fell 0.2 percent, said
Boonchai Charassangsomboon, deputy spokesman of the fiscal
policy office, citing preliminary data from the Customs
Department.  “The economy has bottomed out and is well on a path to
recovery,” he told reporters today. The data showed a trade
deficit of $600 million in January, he said, adding that the
final numbers would be announced later.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  