-- Alex Green Energy Wins India Solar Project With Record-Low Bid
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-02-27T07:31:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/alex-green-energy-wins-india-solar-project-with-record-low-bid.html
Alex Green Energy, a Kolkata-based
developer of clean-energy plants, won the right to develop a 5-
megawatt project in a solar auction in  India ’s eastern Odisha
state, pledging to supply power at a record-low rate.  Alex Green has the option to develop the remaining 20
megawatts of photovoltaic capacity from the auction before it’s
offered to other bidders, P.K. Mohan, chief executive officer of
the Odisha Renewable Energy Development Agency, the state-run
body overseeing the solar program, said by telephone today.  Under auction rules, Alex Green must complete the project
by August 2013. Its bid pledges to sell power to the state-run
utility at 7,000 rupees ($142) per megawatt-hour, which is about
28 percent the world average for plants using crystalline-based
panels, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It’s also the
lowest bid seen in India to date.  The price of solar power in India is closing in on the cost
of electricity from coal as global prices of solar products
plunge because of declining equipment costs. Solairedirect SA,
 France ’s second-largest producer, bid 7,490 rupees a megawatt-
hour in India’s national auction on Dec. 2 to sell photovoltaic-
based electricity, half the rate the government proposed.  Odisha Renewable Energy Development is seeking approval
from the state government to auction an additional 50 megawatts
of solar installations, Mohan said. The capacity will be offered
in two batches of 25 megawatts in the next few months, he said.  India has a target to install 20,000 megawatts of solar-
energy capacity by 2022, 10 percent of its current generating
total that included all energy sources. Less than 1 percent of
its existing power is solar-based.  Odisha state was known as Orissa until its name changed in
November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  