-- AOL Chief Technology Officer Gounares Departs to Pursue Startup
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-02-27T23:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/aol-chief-technology-officer-gounares-departs.html
AOL Inc. (AOL) ’s Alex Gounares, a
technology executive the  Internet company  hired away from
Microsoft Corp. in 2010, is stepping down to pursue a business
startup.  The executive, who led engineering efforts as chief
technology officer, will leave in April, Kelly Mayes, a
spokeswoman for New York-based AOL, said today in a telephone
interview. He will be replaced during an interim period by
Curtis Brown, now a technology executive, Mayes said.  Gounares plans to work on his own venture, he said in a
telephone interview, declining to give details.  The departure follows a reorganization announced in
December by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Tim Armstrong .
The dial-up Internet-access business was merged with Web
services, including AOL Instant Messenger, and put under Chief
Financial Officer Arthur Minson.  Armstrong finds himself challenged by executive turnover as
he moves to revive growth at the Web portal. Both Brad Garlinghouse, a technology veteran who ran the applications and
commerce group and Silicon Valley operations, and Michael Arrington, the founder of the TechCrunch blog, left AOL last
year.  Before joining AOL, Gounares worked for 17 years for
Redmond, Washington-based  Microsoft (MSFT) , where he helped lead
projects, including global advertising, the Bing search engine,
and the MSN portal.  Because Gounares agreed to remain at AOL through a
transition period, he won’t be required to repay a signing
bonus, the company said in a filing today with the Securities
and Exchange Commission.  Separately,  TechCrunch  said its editor, Erick Schonfeld,
will be leaving, and his successor will be Eric
Eldon, a writer who joined the blog in November. Schonfeld took
over as editor after Arrington left in September.  “TechCrunch is in good hands,” Schonfeld wrote on his
Twitter account. “I’m very proud of the team I’ve built there.”  AOL shares were little changed when they closed at $18.19
in  New York . The shares have risen 20 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 Dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 Tgiles5@bloomberg.net  