-- Aperam CEO Forecasts Pause in Stainless Steel Consolidation
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2012-02-27T17:16:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/aperam-chief-forecasts-pause-in-stainless-steel-consolidation.html
Aperam (APAM) , the stainless-steel producer
spun off by ArcelorMittal, doesn’t see any further consolidation
in the stainless-steel industry before the planned merger of
 Outokumpu Oyj (OUT1V)  and a unit of  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  is final.  “The scene is changing, everybody wants to see what will
happen in the coming months,” Chief Executive Officer Philippe Darmayan said at a press meeting in Amsterdam.  Outokumpu’s planned 2.7 billion-euro ($3.6 billion)
takeover of ThyssenKrupp’s Inoxum stainless steel unit is good
news for the industry, as it will reduce excess capacity that
has raised costs and suppressed prices, Darmayan said.  The company created by the Outokumpu deal plans to cut
about 1.4 million metric tons of steelmaking capacity in Europe
by shutting plants. Western European stainless steel capacity
exceeds requirements by more than 1 million tons, according to 
steel consultants MEPS International Ltd.  Aperam looked at the ThyssenKrupp unit in the past year and
“didn’t find any way to make a deal that would be attractive to
shareholders,” Darmayan said.  The company's stock declined 2 percent in Amsterdam trading
today, reducing the market value to 1.19 billion euros. Since
 ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s biggest steelmaker, spun off the
Luxembourg-based business in January 2011, Aperam’s share price
has dropped by about 50 percent in the face of weak demand.  Earnings Target  Darmayan, who took the helm in December, is reducing costs
and lowering inventories to revive earnings after the company
posted a net loss of $60 million in 2011. He has a target for
the company to be profitable this year as volumes rise at a
similar rate to 2011. Because Aperam is operating in a “very
volatile environment” and it’s early in the year, Darmayan said
the company can't guarantee that the target will be achieved.  The trend in the stainless-steel industry is improving as
the company is “fully booked” in March and April, and mills
are running almost at full capacity, Darmayan said. “The
company is getting some good signs at the market at the
moment,” Darmayan said.  “Real demand is good in Northern  Europe ,” Darmayan said,
adding that a pick-up in the company’s markets is partly the
result of a restocking effect.  Aperam, which is providing stainless steel for the top of
the Orbit tower in  London ’s 2012 Olympic Park, predicts demand
for stainless steel will rise less than 2 percent a year in
Europe in the coming years, compared with growth of 7 percent a
year in  South America .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  