-- Apple Wins Temporary Ruling on German IPad, IPhone Sales
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-02-27T13:42:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/apple-wins-temporary-ruling-on-german-ipad-iphone-sales-1-.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  won a German appeals
court ruling temporarily blocking the enforcement of a patent
verdict obtained by  Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. (MMI)  in December.  Motorola Mobility, which forced Apple to remove some iPad
and iPhone models from its German online store for a short
period, can’t enforce the verdict during an appeal. The ruling
was issued after the iPad maker revised license-agreement terms
it offered Motorola Mobility, the court said in an e-mailed
statement today.  “At the current state of the proceedings, it is to be
assumed that Motorola Mobility would violate its duties under
antitrust rules if it continues to ask Apple to stop the
sales,” the court said in a statement.  Motorola Mobility, which is being acquired by Google Inc.,
and Apple are entangled in numerous patent disputes. Today’s
case concerned a so-called standard essential patent that
companies must license to competitors because they can’t produce
the devices without the technology. Cupertino, California-based
Apple has also filed a complaint with the European Union
accusing Motorola Mobility of violating a pledge to license
industry-standard patents on fair terms.  Apple spokesman Alan Hely declined to comment. Motorola
Mobility’s press office didn’t immediately reply to an e-mail
seeking comment.  Mannheim Court  Motorola Mobility, based in Libertyville,  Illinois , would
violate its duties if it doesn’t accept the new offer and thus
can’t make use of the verdict during an appeal, the court said.
It didn’t disclose details of Apple’s offer.  Apple made a first request to the appeals court in January
over the issue. At that time, the judges said the terms Apple
offered weren’t adequate, supporting the reasoning of the lower
court in Mannheim,  Germany , that had issued the December
verdict. Apple then revised its offer.  Today’s ruling helps Apple’s prospects in the appeals case,
which hinges on the terms Motorola Mobility must accept to be
forced to grant a license. In their December verdict the
Mannheim judges rejected Apple’s offer, saying it didn’t
adequately take Motorola Mobility’s interest into account.  Today’s case is OLG Karlsruhe, 6 U 136/11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 