-- Argentina Turns Away Carnival Ships as Falkland Spat Escalates
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-02-28T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/argentina-turns-away-carnival-ships-as-falkland-spat-escalates.html
Argentine port authorities blocked
two British  cruise ships  owned by  Carnival Corp. (CCL)  from docking
yesterday after the vessels made a port call in the Falkland
Islands.  The ownership of the islands is at the center of a dispute
between the U.K. and the South American country.  The Star Princess, which is operated by  Princess Cruises ,
and P&O Cruises’ Adonia sailed to Punta Arenas in southern Chile
after being denied entry to Ushuaia in Argentina’s Tierra del
Fuego province, spokeswomen from the two cruise liners said
separately.  Star Princess is on a 14-night South American cruise that
departed Rio de Janeiro on Feb. 18 and Adonia left Southampton,
England on Jan. 13 for an 87-night tour of the region.  “We are extremely disappointed about this alteration of
the cruise itinerary,” Julie Benson, vice president of public
relations at Princess, said in an e-mailed response to
questions. “This decision was based on the current political
conflict between  Argentina  and the United Kingdom.”  Argentina claims sovereignty over the Falkland Islands,
which it calls the Malvinas. Its troops occupied South Georgia
before invading the Falklands in a 1982 war that it lost to the
U.K.  Argentina this month accused Britain of escalating the
dispute by deploying a modern destroyer to the region and
sending  Prince William , the second-in-line to the throne and a
military-helicopter pilot, to the Falklands for six weeks.  Port authorities in Argentina, which is observing a
national holiday yesterday, didn’t answer telephone calls from
Bloomberg News.  Carnival’s share price fell by less than 0.1 percent
yesterday to $29.96.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  