-- Scorsese’s ‘Hugo’ Gets Early Oscars, Spencer Wins Best Supporting Actress
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-02-27T03:33:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/martin-scorsese-s-3-d-hugo-wins-oscars-for-cinematography-art-direction.html
Martin Scorsese ’s 3-D picture
“Hugo” won Oscars for best cinematography, art direction,
sound and visual effects, jumping to an early lead at the 84th
Academy Awards in  Los Angeles .  Christopher Plummer , 82, became the oldest Oscar winner for
his role in the film “Beginners,” about a man who comes out as
gay late in life.  Octavia Spencer  won the Oscar for best-
supporting actress for her role as the sharp-tongued housemaid
Minny Jackson in “The Help,” about the sometimes-tense
relationship between black maids and the white women who employ
them.  The nomination was Plummer’s second in more than 40 years
of acting and his only win. It came for his portrayal of a man
who comes to grips with his sexuality late in life. The film,
from  Universal Pictures ’ Focus Features, stars  Ewan McGregor  and
took in $14.3 million worldwide, according to Box Office Mojo.  “When I first emerged from my mother’s womb, I was already
rehearsing my academy speech,” Plummer said.  The Oscars were the among first handed out today at the
84th Academy Awards, hosted by  Billy Crystal  and broadcast live
on the ABC network from the Hollywood & Highland Center in Los
Angeles. Crystal returned to host the show for the ninth time,
and began the telecast with a comedic sketch of scenes from
nominated films.  With their nominations, academy voters shunned the year’s
top-grossing films in their best-picture nominations, focusing
on lower-budget or less-seen pictures such as “The Artist,”
which cost about $15 million to make, according to Box Office
Mojo, a researcher. “Hugo” was the costliest in the running
for best picture, with a budget estimated at $170 million,
according to the Internet Movie Database.  Best-Picture Nominees  Of nine films nominated for best picture, “The Help” from
DreamWorks Studios and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  leads with $206.7 million
in worldwide ticket sales, according to  Box Office Mojo . Its
production budget was $25 million. “Hugo” has collected $115.8
million in worldwide ticket sales.  Scorsese’s first 3-D movie, “Hugo” tells the story of an
orphaned boy who lives secretly within the walls and clock tower
of a Paris train station. The film, from  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s  Paramount
Pictures , stars Asa Butterfield, Chloe Grace Moretz and  Ben
Kingsley . Scorsese captured the Golden Globe award for directing
for the film.  Crystal Returns  This year’s ceremony marked the return of actor Crystal as
host, after  Eddie Murphy  and producer  Brett Ratner  quit in
November amid criticism over controversial remarks Ratner made
about gays.  The awards come against the backdrop of a tough 2011 at
home for Hollywood, with theater attendance falling 5.3 percent
to a 16-year low and spending on home-video shrinking 2.1
percent, according to Hollywood.com and the Digital
Entertainment Group, a studio-backed trade association.  Best-picture nominations and the publicity that follows
boost box-office and home-video sales for Oscar contenders.
Ticket sales for last year’s winner, “The King’s Speech” rose
41 percent on the first weekend after its nomination.  The Oscar telecast attracted 37.9 million viewers last year
to rank as the most-watched single, non-sports telecast,
according to Nielsen.  With Hugo’s early wins, Paramount collected six awards,
including one for best animated feature in “Rango.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  