-- Harvard’s 65-Year NCAA Basketball Tournament Drought May Hinge on Playoff
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-02-27T15:38:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/harvard-ncaa-tourney-drought-may-hinge-on-playoff.html
Harvard University ’s basketball
team, the preseason Ivy League favorite, now needs the
 University of Pennsylvania  to lose one of its three remaining
games to avoid a playoff for the conference championship.  The Crimson (24-4, 10-2) fell 55-54 to the Quakers (17-11,
9-2) on Feb. 25 in front of a sold-out crowd in Lavietes
Pavilion in  Boston . A win would have guaranteed first-place
Harvard at least a share of the Ivy League men’s basketball
title following a season in which they were ranked in the Top 25
for the first time in program history and set a school record
for victories.  Should Harvard and Penn win their remaining games -- the
Crimson have two left -- they would meet in a one-game playoff
to decide who receives the conference’s automatic berth in the
National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament. Yale (19-7,
9-3) and Princeton (16-11, 7-4) remain in contention as well.  “It’s a devastating loss, it’s a disappointing loss,”
Harvard coach Tommy Amaker told the  Harvard Crimson , the
school’s student newspaper, following the Penn loss. “The good
thing is if we can channel it in the right way, maybe it can
help us, and that’s what we’re hoping for next week.”  Harvard’s final two games are on the road next weekend
against Cornell (11-15, 6-6) and Columbia (14-14, 3-9), who are
fifth and sixth in the eight-team league. Penn hosts Brown (8-
21, 2-10) and third-place Yale next weekend, before closing its
season on March 6 at fourth-place Princeton.  Last Season  Last season in a similar situation, first-place Harvard
lost to Yale in the second-to-last weekend of the regular
season, and had to win its final two games to force a tie-
breaker with Princeton. The Tigers won 63-62 in the game’s final
second, pushing the Crimson tournament drought to 65 years.  Harvard this season returned 12 players, including senior
co-captain and 2011  Ivy League  Player of the Year  Keith Wright ,
and has already won a school record 24 games, besting last
year’s mark of 23. The team received 16 of the 17 first-place
votes in a preseason poll of reporters who regularly cover the
conference.  After opening the season 8-0, including a win over then-No.
22 Florida State, the Crimson were ranked No. 25 in the
Associated Press poll, a spot that the team has held for one
week at two separate times this season. It was the first Top 25
ranking ever for a team that has played in just one NCAA
tournament, in 1946, when it went 0-2.  The Quakers are winless in three games this season against
teams in the AP Top 25, including a Feb. 10 home loss to
Harvard. Penn has won its last five conference games following
that loss, four of which came by a winning margin of three or
less.  ‘Season of Heart’  “It’s been a season of heart so far, and it’s going to be
a season of heart for three more games,” Penn senior guard  Zack
Rosen , who sunk two free throws with 23.2 seconds remaining on
Feb. 25 against Harvard, told reporters after the game. “We
want this thing.”  There have been eight tiebreakers in the history of the Ivy
League, the only conference in basketball’s top division without
a season-ending tournament. Penn has won at least a share of the
league title 25 times since 1957, second to Princeton’s 26,
while Harvard’s co-title last year was its first.  Plans for a time, location and date for a possible playoff
this year has not yet been completed, Ivy League spokesman
Scottie Rodgers said yesterday in an e-mail. Last season’s
finale was played at a neutral location four days after the
regular season ended.  Company News: {3252Z US <EQUITY> CN}  -- Editor: Michael Sillup, Jay Beberman  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  