-- Asian Carp Nets Sought for Chicago Rejected by U.S. High Court
-- B y   B o b   D r u m m o n d
-- 2012-02-27T15:04:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/asian-carp-nets-sought-for-chicago-rejected-by-u-s-high-court.html
The  U.S. Supreme Court (1000L)  turned away
 Michigan ’s efforts to make the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
install nets in Chicago-area waterways to keep out Asian carp, a
blow to the state’s efforts to prevent what it calls an
“ecological and economic disaster.”  Today’s action marked the fourth time in the past two years
that the justices refused to consider requests for court action
mandating short-term defensive measures while the Corps devises
a longer-term battle plan against the Asian carp.  Michigan (BEESMI)  and four nearby states say silver carp and bighead
carp, which have migrated from the lower  Mississippi River  to
within at least 60 miles of Lake Michigan, would spread rapidly
if they reach the  Great Lakes , consume nutrients needed by other
species and harm the region’s tourism business and its $7
billion sport-fishing industry.  “Failure to decisively respond to this crisis will allow
the carp to move for the first time into the Great Lakes,
creating an ecological and economic disaster,” Michigan’s
petition to the Supreme Court said. “Unless something is done,
the ecological disaster of Asian carp invading the Great Lakes
is a matter of when, not if.”  Minnesota (BEESMN) ,  Ohio (NFSEOH) ,  Pennsylvania (BEESPA)  and  Wisconsin  joined Michigan
in suing the Corps and  Chicago ’s metropolitan water district
over the pace of response to the threat that Asian carp may make
their way through Chicago waterways into the lake.  Little Calumet  They asked the  Supreme Court  to reverse lower court
decisions rejecting requests for the installation of nets in the
Little Calumet and Grand Calumet rivers while the case is being
considered. They also wanted to speed a government study of
other ways to keep Asian carp from reaching the Great Lakes.  The U.S.  Justice Department , representing the Corps, said
the states are asking the court to “second-guess” the
decisions of “expert agencies that are administering the
ongoing effort to combat Asian carp.”  The states “seek to take time and resources away from the
agencies’ priorities and substitute their own priorities, with
which the agencies disagree,” the U.S. argued.  Installing nets would increase the risk of flooding if
debris in the barriers impedes water flow, the U.S. said. The
Corps has already put in place systems that use electric
currents in the water to keep carp out of the same waterways,
the U.S. said.  The states’ request for an 18-month deadline on completion
of a continuing study of the Asian carp response sets an
arbitrary timetable that may not be practical, the U.S. said.  The case is Michigan v. U.S.  Army Corps  of Engineers,
11-541.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Drummond in Washington at 
 bdrummond@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  