-- Asian Currencies Drop as Rise in Oil Stokes Inflation Concerns
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2012-02-27T08:17:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/asian-currencies-drop-as-rise-in-oil-stokes-inflation-concerns.html
The Philippine peso and  Indonesia ’s
rupiah led a decline among Asian currencies on speculation a
three-week rally in oil prices will stoke inflation and derail
regional efforts to spur economic growth.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar  Index (ADXY) , which tracks the
region’s 10 most-traded currencies excluding the yen, headed for
the steepest drop since Feb. 14 as Asian stocks fell. Crude oil
traded at $108.98 a barrel in  New York , capping an 11 percent
jump this month, as the World Bank and  International Monetary
Fund  said higher fuel costs are a risk to the global economy.  “High oil prices are a worry for most currencies,” said
 Vishnu Varathan , an economist at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in
Singapore. “It’s the worry of  oil prices  weighing on growth.”  The rupiah weakened 0.6 percent to 9,172 per dollar as of
3:15 p.m. in Jakarta, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. The peso dropped 0.4 percent to 42.978,
Malaysia’s ringgit slipped 0.3 percent to 3.0218 and  South
Korea ’s won fell 0.3 percent to 1,129.24.  Oil for April delivery traded near a nine-month high as the
Group of 20 met in Mexico City over the weekend to prevent the
European debt crisis from escalating. G-20 nations rebuffed
German-led calls yesterday for more aid, saying any support from
outside Europe depends on the euro area delivering more
financial firepower within two months.  The world’s economy is “still not out of the danger zone”
amid higher oil prices, IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde 
said in a statement after the meeting. Europe’s stability and
energy prices are two big risks to growth,  World Bank  President
Robert Zoellick said in Singapore on Feb. 25.  China Inflation  The won extended a run of three weekly declines after
Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said in Mexico City that
instability in the oil market threatens to push inflation above
the government’s 3.2 percent target for the year. South Korea is
the world’s fifth-largest oil importer.  “There’s dollar demand from refiners who are paying for
their oil imports,” said Kim Sung Soon, a chief currency dealer
at Industrial Bank of Korea in Seoul.  China ’s yuan fell 0.06 percent to 6.3013 per dollar in
Shanghai on concern slowing global growth will prompt policy
makers to limit currency gains to protect exporters. The
People’s Bank of China weakened its currency’s reference rate by
0.03 percent to 6.2985 today.  “Chinese officials are torn between protecting growth and
curbing inflation, so the yuan fixing has been kept steady at
around 6.3,” said Edmond Law, the Hong Kong-based deputy head
of foreign exchange at BWC Capital Markets. “I don’t see any
major changes in policies” before the National People’s
Congress meets on March 5, he said.  Elsewhere, Thailand’s baht fell 0.4 percent to 30.49 per
dollar, the biggest decline in three weeks. India’s rupee
slipped 0.2 percent to 49.0481 and  Singapore ’s currency dropped
0.4 percent to S$1.2606. Financial markets in Taiwan are closed
for a holiday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 