-- AT&T Says ‘Jury Still Out’ on Race for Third Phone Platform
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-02-27T16:25:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/at-t-says-jury-still-out-on-race-for-third-smartphone-platform.html
The race between Microsoft Corp. and
 Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  to become the world’s third smartphone
platform after  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iOS and Android is still undecided,
said Ralph de la Vega,  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s wireless chief.  “The jury is still out” on what consumers want as an
alternative to Apple or the  Google Inc. (GOOG)  platform, de la Vega,
president of AT&T Mobility, said at a press briefing at the
 Mobile World Congress  in Barcelona.  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and BlackBerry maker RIM have both lost market
share to iOS and Android over the past two years and turned to
new operating systems to try to revive sales. Nokia teamed up
with Microsoft and its Windows Phone platform to introduce a new
line of Lumia handsets. AT&T will begin selling the high-end
Lumia 900 in the coming months.  “I think they’re going to have a winner in the U.S.,” de
la Vega said of Nokia. Dallas-based AT&T, the world’s largest
phone company by revenue, also sells BlackBerry, iPhone and
Android models.  While he doesn’t see Windows replacing the BlackBerry
platform,  Microsoft (MSFT) ’s decisions to develop a consistent look for
desktop computers, smartphones and tablet devices gives the
Redmond, Washington-based company a unique advantage over
Android and BlackBerry, de la Vega said.  ‘Game Changer’  “You’ll have the same look and feel on your PC you have on
your tablet and smartphone, that’s a game-changer for
Microsoft,” he said. “That’s something that some of its
competitors don’t have. Android doesn’t have a bunch of Android
PCs out there, neither does RIM.”  Apple and Android’s market share in smartphones has surged
in recent years, eclipsing RIM and Nokia’s Symbian platform,
which it discarded in favor of Windows.  Android’s share jumped to 51 percent in the fourth quarter
from 31 percent a year earlier as Apple’s climbed to 24 percent
from 16 percent, according to data from researcher Gartner Inc.
 RIM (RIMM) ’s share fell to 8.8 percent from 15 percent, Symbian’s
dropped to 12 percent from 32 percent and Microsoft declined to
1.9 percent from 3.4 percent,  the data shows .  It’s not clear whether there will be a “big three or big
four” and the future will be shaped by what customers want and
are willing to pay for, said  Glenn Lurie , AT&T’s president for
emerging devices.  Looking for Spectrum  “The big two have built a phenomenal ecosystem around
their OS,” Lurie said today in an interview at AT&T’s
‘Connected House’ showroom at the Mobile World Congress. “The
question is who’s going to build that full ecosystem that
delivers customers the experience they want for multiple
devices. It’s not just the smartphones anymore.”  To acquire more wireless spectrum to meet demand for data-
hungry smartphones, AT&T bid last year to buy competitor  T-
Mobile USA (DTE)  Inc. That deal fell apart in December amid U.S.
regulators’ concerns that it would harm competition. On Dec.22
the carrier won approval from federal regulators for its $1.93
billion purchase of  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  airwaves.  The search for more spectrum continues today as AT&T is
“continuously looking,” de la Vega said. “It’s a worldwide
problem, folks don’t realize how fast it’s getting exhausted.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  