-- Audi-Led Global Carmakers May Be Shut Out of China’s Fleet
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-27T10:06:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/audi-led-foreign-automakers-may-be-shut-out-of-china-state-fleet.html
China’s government plans to stop
buying cars from  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi and other foreign brands,
threatening to lock them out of an estimated $13 billion segment
of the world’s biggest vehicle market.  All 412 models approved for purchase by state agencies this
year will be limited to Chinese brands, according to a proposal
disclosed by the Ministry of Industry and  Information Technology 
last week. The preliminary list is open for public consultation
until March 9, according to the ministry.  Dongfeng Automobile Co. (600006)  and Great Wall Motor Co. were among
Chinese automakers whose shares surged on speculation the
government, the nation’s biggest buyer of vehicles, is stepping
up efforts to protect its domestic industry as they struggle to
compete against global producers such as  General Motors Co. (GM)  and
VW. China stopped offering some incentives on investments from
foreign automakers this year to clamp down on overcapacity.  “It seems that the China market for cars is closing slowly
but surely toward foreign investment,” Dirk Moens, secretary
general of the European Union Chamber of Commerce in China, said
in a telephone interview. “As an industry you cannot expect to
be warmly welcomed outside of your country if at the same time
you start closing the industry in your country.”  State Fleets  Dongfeng Auto climbed 10 percent in Shanghai trading,
rising by the daily limit for the first time since November
2009, while Great Wall advanced 5.5 percent to close at a record
HK$14.06 in  Hong Kong .  Volkswagen fell as much as 3.3 percent to 134.60 euros at
10 a.m. in Frankfurt trading, while  BMW (BMW)  declined as much as 3.7
percent to 67.73 euros and  Daimler AG (DAI)  was down as much as 3.8
percent to 45.65 euros. In  France ,  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  and
Renault SA fell.  Overseas brands have accounted for about 80 percent of the
official pool, with Audi making up about one-third of government
and state-linked enterprise fleets, according to Guotai Junan
Securities Co. In the broader market, foreign brands account for
7 of every 10 cars sold in the country, which overtook the U.S.
in 2009 to become the world’s largest vehicle market, according
to data from  China Association of Automobile Manufacturers .  ‘Drastic Step’  “It’s such a drastic step I could imagine they could be a
bit resistant from the local government procurement side,”
Klaus Paur, Shanghai-based head of auto research at Ipsos, said
in a telephone interview. Shanghai-based head of auto research
at Ipsos. “If you’re a relatively high-level person, you still
want to have an Audi. The brand, the reputation, the standing is
all important.”  Vehicles used for official purposes such as tax collection
must have an engine size no bigger than 1.8 liters and costing
at most 180,000 yuan, according to the government rules.
Manufacturers must have spent at least 3 percent of their core
revenue on research and development in the past two years to
qualify for the government list, the rules say.  “We would not be surprised if there is a pushback from
major JV brands that could lead to inclusion of some JV brand
vehicles eventually,” Vincent Ha and Nora Min, Hong Kong-based
analysts at Deutsche Bank AG, wrote in a report today, referring
to foreign brands produced locally through China joint ventures.  Laws and Regulations  China spent 80 billion yuan on government vehicle purchases
in 2010, accounting for 4.5 percent of total passenger-vehicle
sales, according to estimates at  China International Capital
Corp (CICCZ) ., which assumed the average car sold for 160,000 yuan each.  Audi currently derives 20 percent of its China sales from
government purchases, while mid-range brands made by VW, GM,
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Nissan Motor (7201)  Co. accounted for less than
10 percent of sales, CICC estimates.  The government is only a small part of the company’s
business as more than 90 percent of Audi’s customers in China
are private buyers, while remaining deliveries are fleet sales
to companies, said Martin Kuehl, Audi China’s Beijing-based
spokesman.  Nissan “respects the government’s laws and regulations,”
Shen Li, a Beijing-based spokeswoman for the company, said in a
mobile text message. Liu Peng, a Beijing-based spokesman for
Toyota, said the company doesn’t comment on government policies.  Red Flag  Dayna Hart, a Shanghai-based spokeswoman for GM, didn’t
immediately respond when contacted. Daimler AG and Guangzhou
Automobile Group Co. also didn’t immediately respond when
reached.  “ BYD (1211)  is very happy and looking forward to be selected into
the government procurement list,” said Elva Zhai, a spokeswoman
for the Shenzhen-based carmaker.  Moens said the European Chamber will work with its members
to assess the impact of the policy and may approach the
government formally if the rules hurt its members excessively.  Earlier this month, FAW Car received state approval to make
the C131, reviving the Red Flag’s production after it was
discontinued in 2010. The sedan will be the official car for
minister-level officials, according to the Communist Party’s
official People’s Daily website.  The Ministry of Supervision estimates the state operated a
fleet of at least 5.2 million vehicles as of November 2007 --
more than the total number of cars sold in  Japan  last year.  “Most countries use official cars as a way to showcase the
domestic  auto industry , so we see this as a natural progression
of the development of  China ’s automotive industry,”  Janet Lewis , Lin Zhixuan and Aaron Qi, analysts at Macquarie Group
Ltd., wrote in a report today.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net ;
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  