-- Austria Takes Volksbank Stake, Defying Downgrade Treat
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l   a n d   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2012-02-28T17:58:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/austria-takes-volksbank-stake-defying-downgrade-treat.html
Austria  plans to put most of the
burden of bailing out  Oesterreichische Volksbanken AG (VBPS)  on the
country’s other lenders, raising its banking tax by 25 percent
to backstop the national budget and  credit rating .  “The taxpayer won’t pay for this crisis,” Chancellor
Werner Faymann told reporters after a government meeting in
Vienna today, a day after the country announced its third
bailout of Austria’s fourth-biggest lender since 2008. “This
will be financed by the banking sector and through measures
relating to the owners.”  Austria, which has been warned that more bailouts may put
its credit rating at risk, will become Volksbanken’s second-
biggest shareholder with a stake of as much as 49 percent after
it injects 250 million euros ($335 million). At the same time,
it will write off as much as 70 percent of an earlier 1 billion-
euro capital infusion to help erase losses accumulated at the
bank, according to a statement released yesterday.  The bailout comes weeks after the government announced
pension cuts, tax increases and a public-sector hiring freeze to
lower its deficit by 26.5 billion euros over five years. Austria
is fighting to keep its top debt grade, which ratings firms such
as Standard & Poor’s say is most threatened by the potential for
another round of aid for the nation’s banks.  “I think it’s a fair contribution by the banks,” junior
Finance Minister Andreas Schieder said today. “What was
important for us is that our budget deficit plan remains intact,
and we don’t need to use the tax base for the rescue.”  Not on Taxpayer’s Bill  The increased bank tax will raise 125 million euros per
year, or 750 million euros in total, until 2017, when Austria
aims to sell its stake in Volksbanken again.  Raiffeisen Bank
International AG (RBI) , the country’s third-largest lender, said its
tax bill will probably rise to about 100 million euros a year.
 Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  and UniCredit Bank Austria AG, the biggest
and second-biggest, declined to comment.  Shares of  Erste (EBI)  fell 0.5 percent to 18.055 euros at the
5:30 p.m. close of Vienna trading. Raiffeisen shares advanced
1.5 percent to 26.707 euros.  To stick to its budget plan for this year, the government
needs to balance the 700 million-euro writedown. On top of the
first 125 million euros from the higher bank levy, the state
plans to recoup 220 million euros from Volksbanken’s owners this
year, Faymann said, without elaborating.  S&P Anticipated Bailout  The country will also change the way in which it taxes
pension funds to bring forward 400 million euros in revenue to
2012 in exchange for lower revenue in future years, a spokesman
for the  finance ministry  said. Together the measures will make
sure Austria’s budget deficit stays below 3 percent this year,
the spokesman said.  S&P cut Austria to AA+ Jan. 13, while Moody’s Investors
Service said earlier this month that it may lower Austria’s Aaa
grade if the country disburses more aid to banks.  “We were more or less expecting Austria having to inject
additional capital into one of its banks, so there was a buffer
in our Jan. 13 downgrade,” said Alois Strasser, who is in
charge of Austria for S&P. “Volksbanken’s bailout is covered by
the last downgrade.” An additional cut would be triggered by a
downturn in the economies most linked to Austria, such as Italy
or  Hungary , Strasser said.  Cooperatives’ Stake  Volksbanken, whose Kommunalkredit unit was the first
Austrian bank to be taken over by the state in 2008, and Hypo
Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG are the institutions that have
been the biggest burden to the national budget. Faymann said
Volksbanken’s majority shareholders, a group of 62 regional
cooperative lenders, will have to share the bailout’s pain.  The regional shareholders’ investments will be mostly
erased by the capital reduction, and they will have to inject
fresh funds of at least 230 million euros to remain majority
shareholders in Volksbanken, according to the statement. The
state will keep the option to take over a majority stake, Vice
Chancellor Michael Spindelegger said.  Austria also is granting the lender a 100 million-euro
asset guarantee for a 10 percent annual fee. The regional banks
unanimously approved the plan at a meeting in the Austrian
capital yesterday. The stakes of other shareholders, including
 DZ Bank (DZBK) ,  Raiffeisen Zentralbank Oesterreich AG (RZBOPA)  and  Munich Re ,
will be diluted in the process.  Cross-Guarantee Pact  Under the changed ownership, Volksbanken and the regional
lenders will pursue their plan to create a cross-guarantee pact,
according to the statement. The regional banks, some of which
were founded by craftsmen and small manufacturers as early as
1851, are in turn owned by more than 500,000 members in a
structure similar to  credit unions , building societies or mutual
savings banks in other countries.  The regional banks owned 61 percent of Volksbanken before
the restructuring, while DZ Bank owned 23 percent, Raiffeisen
Zentralbank Oesterreich AG 6 percent, and Munich Re 9 percent.
Volksbanken didn’t provide a breakdown of holders after the
transaction.  While  DZ Bank  and RZB won’t inject fresh money, DZ Bank
will take over 400 million euros of Volksbanken’s German loan
book while RZB seeks to help Volksbanken sell its 5 percent
stake in RZB to other RZB shareholders. RZB will also provide an
additional 500 million euros in liquidity, and DZ Bank and
Munich Re will keep its funding lines unchanged.  Bankruptcy Discussed  Chancellor Faymann said the state would have had to come up
with as much as 13 billion euros for risks including the
nation’s deposit insurance in case of a Volksbanken failure. A
bankruptcy for Volksbanken “wasn’t impossible in the last few
nights,” the finance ministry’s Schieder said.  The state gained the right to take over Volksbanken after
the lender failed to repay part of  government aid  and pay
dividends. Volksbanken, whose money-losing businesses are rooted
in an era in which it relied on wholesale funding to boost its
balance sheet fivefold from 2000 to 2007, saddled Austria with
bad assets in its municipal-lending unit, Kommunalkredit.  The government took over Kommunalkredit to avoid a collapse
in the wake of the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
The Kommunalkredit assets absorbed by the state include credit-
default swaps written for about 10 billion euros of debt,
including Greek  government bonds . Its wind-down offshoot KA
Finanz may yet need more state aid because of the Greek bond
swap, KA Finanz has said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net ;
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  