-- Austrian Lending, Greek Debt Swap, Threadneedle: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-02-27T17:45:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/austrian-lending-u-k-power-greek-debt-swap-threadneedle-compliance.html
Austria’s regulators are discussing
rules for its top banks that will curb excessive lending in
eastern  Europe  with the  European Commission , according to the
Central Bank Governor Ewald Nowotny.  He told reporters in Vienna on Feb. 24 that the regulators
didn’t want to publish the rules without the commission’s
consent. The discussions will be completed “shortly,” Nowotny
said.  Austria’s financial markets regulator and the central bank
in November presented a plan that restricts new loan business to
1.1 times the deposits and wholesale funding that  Raiffeisen
Bank International AG (RBI) ,  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  and  UniCredit (UCG)  Bank
Austria AG’s local units in eastern Europe are able to raise on
their own. They also brought forward capital rules from the
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision.  The regulators have yet to publish a comprehensive version
of the rules, an action initially scheduled for the end of 2011.  The banks “de facto meet the rules already,” Nowotny
said.  Compliance Policy  U.K. Plan for Forced Power Sales Won’t Aid Competition, RWE Says  RWE AG (RWE) , one of the six biggest electricity generators in
the U.K., said a proposal by regulators to force utilities to
sell a proportion of their generation in auctions won’t improve
competition.  The company expressed its concerns Feb. 24 in an e-mailed
statement with comments by Dan Meredith, a company spokesman.  The U.K. is seeking to boost trading volumes in the power
market to help entice investors and boost competition as
consumer bills rise. Ofgem, the U.K.’s electricity and gas
market regulator, said Feb. 22 it may force the nation’s six
biggest utilities to sell 25 percent of their generation in
monthly auctions of contracts as far as three years in advance.  Netherlands, Spain Among EU States Warned by EU on Energy Rules  The Netherlands, Spain and six other European Union nations
must still put in place EU rules to open up energy markets, the
European Commission said.  The Netherlands, Spain, Bulgaria, Cyprus, Luxembourg,
Romania and Slovakia haven’t informed EU regulators of national
laws to implement EU rules for power and natural-gas markets,
while Estonia hasn’t notified any laws for gas markets, the EU
said today in an e-mailed statement. Regulators can take EU
member states to court if they don’t draft the rules.  Schaeuble Seeks to Cut Banks From Market Regulator, Spiegel Says  Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  is seeking to remove
banking representatives from the board of Germany’s  BaFin 
financial-market regulator and replace them with academics or
members of research institutes,  Der Spiegel  reported, without
saying how it got the information.  Schaeuble’s goal is to reduce the influence of the bank
lobbies, which currently have a vote on BaFin’s board along with
government representatives, the magazine said yesterday.  Compliance Action  Greece Invites Investors to Debt Swap, Biggest Restructuring  Greece ’s government formally asked investors to exchange
their holdings of government debt for new securities in the
biggest sovereign restructuring in history.  “The Ministerial Council of the Hellenic Republic today
approved the terms of invitations to be made to private sector
holders,” the Ministry of Finance said Feb. 24 in a  statement 
on a website set up for the exchange. The bonds subject to the
invitation had a total face value of about 206 billion euros.  The government seeks a 90 percent participation rate and
set a 75 percent rate as a threshold for proceeding with the
transaction, according to the statement.  Parliament approved laws Feb. 23 to permit the exchange and
cut 106 billion euros ($143 billion) of the country’s  debt .
Private creditors gave their backing earlier last week as euro
area finance ministers weighed a 130 billion-euro package for
the nation, its second rescue.  The swap is required to secure the European bailout and is
geared toward averting the collapse of the Greek economy and
default by a member of the euro. The exchange must be completed
before March 20, when the country has to redeem 14.5 billion
euros of bonds. In return, Greece has promised 3.2 billion euros
of public-spending cuts. Interest payments on the new securities
are set to start March 12.  For more, click here, and click here.  Warner Chilcott Gets U.S. Attorney Subpoena on Drug Practice  Warner Chilcott Plc (WCRX)  and some non-executive employees
received a subpoena from the U.S. Attorney’s Office in
Massachusetts for information on a “wide range of matters,”
including its sales and marketing practices.  The Feb. 22 subpoena seeks information on payments to
people who are in a position to recommend drugs, medical
education, clinical trials, off-label use and employee training
for key products, the Dublin-based company said Feb. 24 in a
 filing  with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  “We intend to cooperate in responding to the subpoena but
cannot predict or determine the impact of this inquiry on our
future financial condition or results of operations,” Warner
Chilcott said.  Threadneedle to Review Risk Controls After Fraud Attempt  The U.K. finance regulator has asked Threadneedle, the
London-based investment unit of  Ameriprise Financial Inc. (AMP) , to
review its systems and controls after a $150 million trading
fraud was attempted.  The Financial Services Authority asked the firm to review
the effectiveness of its compliance system. Threadneedle isn’t
under investigation, Christopher Hamilton, a spokesman for the
regulator, said today.  Threadneedle said this week that it blocked a “suspicious
attempted trade” in August 2011. The firm reported the matter
to the City of  London  Police and dismissed the trader,
spokeswoman Alison Jefferis said.  The trader is Vladimir Gersamia, according to a person
familiar with the investigation. Gersamia, who formerly helped
manage about $2 billion in emerging-market debt at Threadneedle,
didn’t respond to calls to his mobile phone. He left the firm in
September, according to the FSA’s register.  London police arrested a 32-year-old man as part of the
investigation in October and a criminal investigation into “a
suspected $150 million trading fraud” is pending, police said.
The man arrested was George Urumov, formerly the London-based
global head of fixed income at  Otkritie Financial Corp ., a
brokerage part-owned by Russia’s VTB Group, another person
familiar with the matter said. Urumov declined to comment.  Threadneedle said the attempted trade was stopped by its
systems and there was no loss to its clients.  Otkritie spokesman Alexey Karakhan didn’t immediately
respond to a phone call and e-mail seeking comment. The
Financial Times previously reported the identities of the men.  Prudential May Quit U.K. to Counter Solvency II Regulations  Prudential Plc (PRU) , the U.K.’s biggest insurer by market value,
may move its headquarters from Britain, where it was founded 164
years ago, if new European regulations hamper the business, the
insurer said in statement.  The company is considering a number of options to maximize
its “strategic flexibility.” This will include changing the
domicile as a possible response to an adverse outcome on
Solvency II, according to today’s statement.  Solvency II, a set of rules the European Union plans to
introduce in 2013, is designed to align insurers’ capital
reserves with the risks they take. Prudential Chief Executive
Officer  Tidjane Thiam  has warned the new regulations may lead to
“unintended consequences.”  The insurer may be concerned it will be forced to hold
additional capital if the European rules clash with solvency
regulations in the U.S., where the company gets more than a
third of its revenue, according to Marcus Barnard, a London-
based analyst at Oriel Securities Ltd.  Prudential shares are already listed in Hong Kong, and the
city is the insurer’s second-biggest Asian market by revenue.  SEC Reviewing Trading Practices After Shift to Automation  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is examining
equity-trading practices that gained dominance in the past
decade amid a shift to automation, according to an official in
the agency’s enforcement division.  Daniel Hawke, head of the market-abuse unit, said at an
event Feb. 24 that the SEC is looking into techniques such as
co-location, in which exchanges let traders place computers
close to the market’s systems to shave time off executions. He
said other practices under examination include the rebates that
venues pay to spur transactions, direct market access where
brokers let investors send orders to venues themselves, and
whether the types of orders exchanges offer are being misused.  Regulators are evaluating U.S. markets after rules since
the 1990s boosted competition and spread stock trading across 13
exchanges and dozens of private, broker-run venues. While the
shift cut investors’ costs, it made trading more complex, and
scrutiny increased after a May 2010 rout erased $862 billion
from equities in less than 20 minutes. Several practices Hawke
highlighted are used by firms engaged in high-speed trading.  The SEC also is examining whether the self-regulatory
organizations that operate exchanges are complying with and
enforcing their own rules, Hawke said. Alternative venues that
aren’t exchanges are operated by broker-dealers and must
register with the agency. These include dark pools, or private
venues that match orders without displaying order information.  For more, click here.  AIJ Suspension Undermines Japan Pensions Hedge Fund Appetite  The suspension of  AIJ Investment Advisors Co. ’s operations
amid concerns hedge funds it manages had lost pension money may
undermine plans by Japan’s retirement funds to boost returns to
meet demand in an aging society.  The Financial Services Agency on Feb. 24 ordered the Tokyo-
based firm with 183.2 billion yen ($2.3 billion) of client money
to stop business for a month as the regulator investigates
“possible losses” at AIJ’s hedge funds. The FSA also will
undertake a nationwide probe of 263 asset managers.  The inquiry is a setback for Japan’s pension industry,
which has been looking to diversify away from bonds and equities
into alternatives investments, including hedge funds, to
maintain steady returns and fund retiree benefits in a country
with the world’s fastest-growing aging society and two decades
of slumping markets.  It also raises questions about the nation’s corporate
governance after camera maker Olympus Corp.’s admission that it
covered up losses by overpaying advisers.  Regulators have been investigating AIJ, which invests in
futures and options of equities and bonds, since the end of
January, and discovered that the company has been unable to
explain to investors the current state of the way their money is
being managed, according to the FSA.  For more, click here.  Courts  Ex-KBR CEO Stanley Gets 2 1/2 Years in Prison for Foreign Bribes  Albert “Jack” Stanley, the former  KBR Inc. (KBR)  chief
executive officer, was sentenced to 2 1/2 years in prison for
bribing Nigerian officials to win $6 billion in natural gas
contracts for the company and its partners.  U.S. District Judge  Keith Ellison , who handed down the
sentence Feb. 23 in Houston, also sentenced Stanley, 69, to
three years of supervised probation.  Stanley pleaded guilty in September 2008 to violating the
U.S. anti-bribery law, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and
agreed to make restitution of $10.8 million, of which $1.55
million remains to be paid. He faced as long as seven years in
prison under the terms of his cooperation agreement.  Larry Veselka, Stanley’s lawyer, asked that his client be
sentenced to house arrest instead of prison, saying Stanley’s
cooperation resulted in eight felony guilty pleas, four
deferred-prosecution agreements and fines of $1.7 billion.  Stanley was “the linchpin, the foundation of the largest,
most successful FCPA investigation ever,” Veselka said.  The cases are U.S. v. Stanley, 08-cr-00597; U.S. v. Tesler,
09-cr-00098; U.S. v. Kellogg Brown & Root LLC, 09-cr-00071; U.S.
v. Technip, 10-cr-00439; U.S. v. Snamprogetti Netherlands, 10-
cr-00460; and U.S. v. JGC Corp., 11-cr-00260, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston).  For more, click here.  Interviews/Speeches  SEC’s Schapiro Says More Civil Actions Coming in Crisis Cases  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s enforcement
division isn’t finished pursuing cases connected to the 2008
financial crisis, said SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro .  “There are more actions to come,” Schapiro said Feb. 24
at a  Washington  securities-law conference, citing an enforcement
record that has filed actions against  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , and against executives
at  Bank of America Corp. ’s Countrywide unit,  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and
 Freddie Mac. (FMCC)   On another SEC effort, to institute a markets surveillance
system the regulator can use to monitor equities trading
activity, she said the “contours of the regulation are being
finalized.” It “should eventually be expanded to include fixed
income, futures and other markets,” she said.  Schapiro also said the agency is close to finishing Dodd-
Frank Act mandates for the regulation of the security-based
swaps markets.  Barnier, Reynolds, Geithner Comment on Volcker Rule  Michel Barnier, European Union financial services
commissioner, talked with Bloomberg’s Meera Louis about the
impact of the so-called Volcker rule on banks in the U.K.,
Germany and France.  The rule, named for former Federal Reserve Chairman Paul
Volcker, was included in the U.S. Dodd-Frank Act to restrict
risky trading at banks that operate with federal guarantees.
They spoke Feb. 23 in Washington.  For the video, click here.  Separately, U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner
said he’s confident regulators will be able to complete the
Volcker rule ban on proprietary trading while allowing
exceptions for market-making.  Separately, James Reynolds, chief executive officer of Loop
Capital Markets LLC, talked about the potential impact of the
so-called Volcker rule on hedge funds and the government’s role
in U.S. businesses.  Reynolds, who spoke with Betty Liu on Bloomberg
Television’s “In the Loop,” also discussed the outlook for
pension funds and municipal bonds.  For the video, click here.  Geithner, in a CNBC television interview Feb. 24, said he
thinks U.S. regulators will be able “to do what the law
requires -- that as we are limiting the risk these large
institutions pose to the world, could pose in the future --we’re
preserving well-designed, carefully constructed exceptions for
market-making hedging, as the law intended.”  The so-called Volcker rule, named for former Federal
Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker, was included in the Dodd-Frank
Act to restrict risky trading at banks that operate with federal
guarantees. Central bankers and regulators from around the world
have voiced concern that the rule, which would apply to the U.S.
operations of foreign banks, may also extend to firms’
operations outside the country.  On Europe, Geithner said it’s now “much less likely” that
the continent’s debt crisis will cause global contagion and
derail the U.S. economic recovery.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 