-- Austria Takes Volksbank Stake, Defying Downgrade Treat
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l   a n d   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2012-02-27T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/austria-said-to-take-stake-in-volksbanken-after-dismissing-bad-bank-plan.html
Austria bailed out  Oesterreichische
Volksbanken AG (VBPS)  for a third time since 2008, losing most of its
money from an earlier rescue and providing more cash two weeks
after announcing pension cuts and tax increases to fight
deficits.  The government, which was warned that more bailouts may put
its  credit rating  at risk, will become Volksbanken’s second-
biggest shareholder after it injects 250 million euros ($335
million), the Vienna-based firm said yesterday in a statement.
The state will write off as much as 70 percent of an earlier 1
billion-euro capital infusion to help erase losses accumulated
at the bank, according to the statement.  “The purpose of those measures is the restoration and the
rebuilding of Volksbanken,” the lender,  Austria ’s fourth-
biggest, said in the statement. “This creates the basis for a
sustainable, stable future.”  Austria announced pension cuts, tax increases and a public
sector hiring freeze Feb. 10 to lower its deficit by 26.5
billion euros over five years. The country is fighting to keep
its top debt grade, which ratings firms such as Standard &
Poor’s say is most threatened by the potential for another round
of state aid for the nation’s banks.  Volksbanken, whose Kommunalkredit unit was the first
Austrian bank to be taken over by the state in 2008, and Hypo
Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG are the institutions that have
most damaged the nation’s budget.  40 Percent Stake  The new cash injection, following a capital reduction of as
much as 70 percent to erase Volksbanken’s accumulated losses,
probably will give taxpayers a 40 percent stake in the lender,
according to two people with knowledge of the plan who spoke on
condition of anonymity because talks are still under way.  A group of 62 regional cooperative lenders will provide at
least 230 million euros and remain the majority shareholder in
Volksbanken, according to the statement. The regional banks
unanimously approved the plan at a meeting in the Austrian
capital. The stakes of other shareholders, including  DZ Bank (DZBK) ,
 Raiffeisen Zentralbank Oesterreich AG (RZBOPA)  and  Munich Re , will be
diluted in the process.  Austria rescued Volksbanken in 2009 with 1 billion euros of
so-called participation capital, which carried no  voting rights .
That will be cut to 300 million euros because of the capital
reduction, according to the statement. Austria also is granting
the lender a 100 million-euro asset guarantee for a 10 percent
annual fee.  ‘Ensure the Repayment’  The regional lenders “will ensure the repayment” of the
remaining participation capital and the payment of the asset-
guarantee fee, Volksbanken said. The deal comes after the
finance ministry over the weekend rejected a previous plan
proposed by the regional banks, according to four people with
knowledge of those talks among Volksbanken, its owners and the
 finance ministry .  That plan, which would have created a so-called bad bank,
would have exposed the state and other shareholders to
unprofitable businesses. The regional lenders also wouldn’t have
shared enough losses, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the talks were private.  The regional banks owned 61 percent of Volksbanken before
the restructuring, while  DZ Bank  owned 23 percent, Raiffeisen
Zentralbank Oesterreich AG, 6 percent, and Munich Re, 9 percent.
Volksbanken didn’t provide a breakdown of the stakes after the
capital cut.  DZ Bank will take over 400 million euros of Volksbanken’s
German loan book, while RZB will seek to help Volksbanken sell a
5 percent stake in RZB to other RZB shareholders, according to
the statement.  Cross-Guarantee Pact  Volksbanken and the regional lenders, under the new
shareholder structure, will keep developing their plan to create
a cross-guarantee pact, according to the statement. That means
the company would keep offering support, such as liquidity
management, for the regional owners and wind down all business
that isn’t part of that function, corresponding to about half of
its assets.  The government taking a stake will “help to stabilize this
bank and prepare for an orderly restructuring,” Austrian
central bank Governor Ewald Nowotny told journalists in  London .
“However, it is not a permanent move and will merely help with
the restructuring.”  S&P and Moody’s Investors Service warned Austria this year
that its financial-services industry is the main threat to the
nation’s credit rating. S&P cut its rating to AA+ Jan. 13
because of the banks’ links to Italy and  Hungary . Moody’s said
earlier this month that it may lower Austria’s Aaa grade if the
country disburses more aid to banks, which the ratings company
called a “contingent liability.”  Banking-Tax Boost  Austria will boost its banking tax to finance the bailout,
Harald Waiglein, a finance ministry spokesman, said in a phone
interview from Vienna. The Alpine republic will post a 700
million-euro writedown on the participation capital, he said.  Austria already is saddled with bad assets Volksbanken ran
up through 2008 in its municipal-lending unit, Kommunalkredit,
which it co-owned with Dexia SA, the Belgian bank being broken
up in the wake of losses. Kommunalkredit was part of an
expansion during which Volksbanken relied on wholesale funding
to boost its balance sheet fivefold from 2000 to 2007.  The government took over Kommunalkredit to avoid a collapse
of the wholesale-funded lender after the bankruptcy of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. The risky Kommunalkredit assets absorbed
by the state include credit-default swaps written for about 10
billion euros of debt, including Greek  government bonds .  Volksbanken has posted writedowns on  Greece ’s debt and on
bad loans in  Romania , driving its net loss to 689 million euros
in the first nine months of 2011.  The state gained the right to take over Volksbanken after
the lender failed to repay part of that aid and because it
hasn’t paid a dividend on it. Finance Minister Maria Fekter had
previously said that her desire to exercise that right was
“limited.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net ;
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  