-- Ayn Rand Beats Out Rick Santelli as First Teapartyer: Gary Weiss
-- B y   G a r y   W e i s s
-- 2012-02-27T00:00:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/ayn-rand-beats-out-rick-santelli-as-first-teapartyer-gary-weiss.html
The origins of the  Tea Party  are
usually traced to Rick Santelli’s televised rant, which took
place on Feb. 19, 2009 -- by coincidence exactly 83 years to the
day after  Ayn Rand  first set foot on American soil. A few anti-
tax, anti-government rallies preceded the Santelli tirade, but
he and his immediate predecessors usually get the nod for
originating the movement.  I beg to differ. Ayn  Rand  was the very first person on the
national political stage to enunciate views that mesh precisely
with the ones being bandied about by the Tea Party. Rand was
channeling the Tea Party decades before there even was a Tea
Party.  In 1964, she gave a radio interview that could have been
broadcast today, in which she perfectly captured the angst of
21st-century right-leaning populists. It’s doubtful that Rand
would have supported the Tea Party movement if she were living
today. That wasn’t her style. But it’s important to distinguish
between Rand’s ideology and her knee-jerk opposition to any
movement whose views might have competed with her own.  ‘Little Sympathy’  In a 1971 newsletter article, she expressed disdain for
groups -- similar to today’s Tea Party, though far smaller --
that opposed the  United Nations , foreign aid, international
treaties, relations with communist countries, federal aid to
education, and the income tax. She disparaged them as
“primitive patriotic groups,” even while agreeing with most of
their ideas. “Personally,” she said, “I have little sympathy
with such groups because they do not know how to uphold their
ideas intellectually, because they rush unarmed and unprepared
into a deadly battle and do more harm than good to the rightist
cause.”  She was right. Such groups faded into the mists of history
without having much impact. The Tea Party is different. It has
latched on to the disdain for government that is common in the
heartland, and seems to have an almost psychic connection to the
grand old lady of radical capitalism.  The most dramatic evidence of that can be found in an
interview that she gave to a small chain of  radio stations ,
probably in October 1964. Tapes of this interview, and another
one from 1962, were in the possession of a friend and colleague
of mine: the investigative reporter Richard Behar. Behar got
them in the 1980s from iconic broadcaster Gordon McLendon -- a
pioneer of the Top 40 hits format -- and they have resided in a
succession of closets ever since.  Throughout the 1962 broadcast, Rand expressed contempt for
the Kennedy administration. She called it “fascist” for
exerting pressure on the  steel industry  to roll back prices.
Five decades later, a U.S. president wouldn’t even think about
injecting himself into the affairs of a major industry, except
to step in with billions of dollars to keep it afloat, if it’s
considered too big to fail. Nothing startling there.  The 1964 interview resonates even more with today’s
struggle over the soul of the nation. The interview, conducted
by a Los Angeles lawyer and investor named Roy B. Loftin, was
broadcast at the height of the 1964 presidential race, which
pitted the ultraconservative Republican Barry Goldwater against
the unreconstructed New Dealer  Lyndon Johnson .  Compared with today, these were innocent years.  Vietnam 
hadn’t quite reached the boiling point, and the nation was
relatively prosperous. Congress actually did stuff in those pre-
gridlock days -- passing civil-rights legislation and coming to
grips with health care for the elderly, as the Medicare bill
moved toward enactment.  Dark Side  Rand saw not prosperity, but a dark tide of government
oppression. Her bleak vision was of a U.S. that had been
“moving in the direction of statism for over 60 years.” It was
a nation very much like the one seen by the Tea Party today -- a
country in which freedom was fast eroding. Never mind that the
very act of her speaking out against the government, unmolested,
refuted her denunciation of “fascism.” Reality wasn’t Rand’s
strong point.  Loftin began the 1964 interview by asking Rand about labor
unions. Her response was ambivalent. She had no problem with
them in principle, but didn’t want them to get too uppity. In a
remark that foreshadowed the 2011 battle over collective
bargaining in  Wisconsin , she expressed wariness concerning the
power of unions. During the era of heavy industry, unions could
shut ports, cripple transportation and freeze production of
vital raw materials.  Rand was asked by Loftin if she saw a “danger in heavy
union contributions to candidates, congressmen and senators.”
Her response was hedged and contradictory, but generally lined
up with the kind of rhetoric that would be heard five decades
later from Wisconsin’s Republican governor,  Scott Walker , as he
stared down unions in 2011. “Danger?” she said. “No, so long
as the membership does not have to vote the way the union wants
them to vote.” But then, backtracking a bit, she said she saw
“an element of enormous injustice and impropriety because the
unions have no right to determine the political viewpoint or
voting preferences of its members, and therefore have no right
to contribute money to one candidate over another without the
individual consent of the members.”  She distinguished between the unions’ moral and legal right
to use member dues for political contributions: “They have no
moral right. It is unfortunate that today they do have the legal
right, which is totally improper. Therefore, it is an injustice
but it is not particularly a danger as such. The danger will
come when and if the union leaders are able to deliver the vote,
so to speak. When they are able to really control the vote of
their membership, which so far they have not been able to do.”
It was tepid by Randian standards, but still cut right to the
heart of an issue that remained unresolved 50 years later.  Liberal Republicans  Loftin shifted to the  New York  senate race. Robert F. Kennedy was running against Kenneth Keating, a liberal
Republican (back when there was such a thing), who had
represented New York for years. Again, Rand’s reply could have
been spoken by a Tea Party activist.  Framing her remarks less to chastise Kennedy than to take a
swipe at Keating, who refused to support her man  Barry
Goldwater , she said the New York senate race “is one of the
most unfortunate ones that I can remember in a long time, if not
the most unfortunate.” In addition to Kennedy’s move to New
York being an “obvious grab for power” -- which wouldn’t have
gotten much of an argument in New York at the time -- she viewed
it as unfair that right-thinking voters in New York couldn’t
vote against the dastardly Kennedy. Doing so, she pointed out,
would benefit a liberal Republican, a species of politician that
she viewed with as much contempt as Tea Partyers despise
moderate and less-than-fanatically conservative Republicans.  “The Democrats at least are openly what they are,” she
said. “Liberal Republicans don’t disagree with Democrats in any
significant way,” but “have kidnapped the  Republican Party 
into welfare statism.”  Rand had no reason to worry. By the time of her death,
liberal Republicans were almost as obsolete as a 1959 Edsel.
Thirty years after she passed on, the ascendancy was in her
direction, with candidates seeking to outflank one another on
the right like ambitious World War I generals. The Tea Party
movement was calling the shots in the Republican Party.  Loftin moved to a subject that is a national obsession
today. He asked if Rand believed “our national debt of somewhat
over $300 billion represents a serious national problem for
us.” That was a lot of money in those days. Yet today, at an
inflation-adjusted $2.1 trillion, it would be a significant
reduction in the U.S. debt burden.  “The idea,” she responded, “that this debt is no problem
merely because we owe it to ourselves, so to speak, or because
we will never have to pay up on it, that we can keep passing it
on from generation to generation, is a fallacy which can be
exposed by a simple, primitive look at economics. Any sensible
knowledge of economics would tell you that one cannot spend more
than one produces, and that sooner or later that kind of
spending will have to catch up with us.”  Rand’s Prophecy  Then came the following prophecy: “The form in which we
will pay for it would be a financial crash that will make the
one in 1929 seem like a little trouble. The national debt is
going to cause an economic crash. What no economist can predict,
of course, is the time when this will happen. No one can tell.
But that it will happen is obvious.”  It’s nonsense to suggest that the national debt caused the
financial crisis of 2008. But the debt-ceiling gridlock of 2011
caused a downgrade of the U.S.’s credit rating and a major
market correction. Rand’s prediction might have seemed absurd in
1964, or even in 2010. In 2011 it was eerily, frustratingly
credible because of an ideological polarization for which Rand
had been a catalyst.  If Rand’s 1964 radio interview had become general
knowledge, it still wouldn’t have eased the primary obstacle
impeding the Rand-Tea Party dynamic: faith. That was a deal
breaker for Rand throughout her life. She hated religion,
especially Christianity.  But faith in God is the essence of life to a great many in
the Tea Party. Their  literature  sometimes reads like a hymnal,
with copious references to the Almighty and Jesus. In his vest-
pocket-sized “The Tea Party Manifesto,” author and
conservative commentator Joseph Farah invokes the Deity on
almost every one of its tiny pages. “I know the heart and soul
of the Tea Party movement,” he says. “It is populated by
people who think just like I do on these big issues. It is a
movement of prayerful people, people who love God, people who go
to church and synagogue.”  That would leave Rand out in the cold. If the Tea Party
ever wholeheartedly embraced Rand, it would be the greatest boon
for her since the publication of “ Atlas Shrugged ” -- and a
major challenge for anyone who doesn’t care for the right’s
agenda.  (Gary Weiss is the author of “Wall Street Versus America”
and “Born to Steal.” This is an excerpt from his latest book,
“ Ayn Rand Nation: The Hidden Struggle for America’s Soul ,” to
be published Feb. 28 by St. Martin’s Press. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Gary Weiss at  garyweiss.email@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  