-- Banks Win Reprieve on Home Equity Loans in Settlement
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M .   H o w l e y
-- 2012-02-27T21:35:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/banks-win-reprieve-on-home-equity-loans-in-settlement-mortgages.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC)  and three other banks that settled a nationwide probe of
 foreclosure  practices this month will get a bonus from the deal:
protection for $308 billion of  home-equity loans  they hold.  The banks that service about half the nation’s mortgages on
behalf of investors will be able to share losses on their junior
loans with bondholders and get credit toward the cash they
pledged to spend in the settlement, said an Obama administration
official involved in drafting the $25 billion agreement. Second
liens would typically be wiped out before senior-mortgage
investors take a loss, said  Laurie Goodman , managing director at
Amherst Securities Group LP in  New York .  It’s “a gift to the banks, at investors’ expense,” said
Goodman, a member of the Fixed Income Analysts Society’s Hall of
Fame. “A proportionate write-down of the first and second
represents a reversal of normal lien priority.”  Loss-sharing will break the logjam that occurs when banks
drag their feet processing modifications on mortgages that
outrank their junior liens, said the Obama official, who
declined to be identified because this arrangement hasn’t been
made public. Government foreclosure-prevention programs have
resulted in less than 1 million modifications, a quarter of the
goal the administration set three years ago. Home-equity
mortgages have been a reason for that, said Arthur Wilmarth, a
professor at George  Washington  University Law School in
Washington.  Roadblock to Modifications  “The roadblock to getting comprehensive modifications has
been the efforts of these banks, the biggest servicers, to
protect their second liens,” Wilmarth said. “To only suffer
losses on an equal basis as first-lien investors is a good
outcome for them.”  The servicer agreement resolved state and federal probes
into foreclosure abuses including robo-signing, the fraudulent
endorsement of court documents. The banks have pledged $20
billion in various forms of mortgage relief, including principal
reductions, plus payments of $5 billion to state and federal
governments.  The settlement has been criticized by money managers
including Scott Simon at Pacific Investment Management Co., who
said investors who bought  mortgage-backed securities  will suffer
losses as banks earn credits for easing loan terms.  “This was a relatively cheap resolution for the  banks ,”
Simon, the mortgage head at Pimco, which runs the world’s
largest bond fund, said after the settlement’s Feb. 9
announcement. “A lot of the principal reductions would have
happened on their loans anyway, and they’re using other people’s
money to pay for a ton of this. Pension funds, 401(k)s and
mutual funds are going to pick up a lot of the load.”  Settlement Summary  While a summary of the settlement has been released, the
details haven’t been made public. The document may be issued as
soon as this week, according to the Obama official. The credits
banks will get for writing down  home equity loans  won’t be as
much as they will get for reducing the balance on primary
mortgages, the official said.  The servicers involved in the agreement are Bank of
America, Wells Fargo,  JPMorgan (JPM)  Chase & Co., Citigroup Inc. and
Ally Financial Inc.  Bank of America had $102.9 billion of home equity mortgages
in the third quarter, surpassing its $86.3 billion market
capitalization, according to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
Wells Fargo had $95 billion, JPMorgan had $79.7 billion,
Citigroup was $27.8 billion, and Ally, the bank that sparked the
state and federal investigation into foreclosure practices, had
$2.2 billion.  Tom Kelly , a spokesman for New York-based JPMorgan,  Rick Simon  of Bank of America, Tom Goyda of Wells Fargo, Gina Proia
of Ally, and  Sean Kevelighan  for  Citigroup (C)  declined to comment.  Bank Performance  Since Feb. 9,  Charlotte , North Carolina-based  Bank of
America  has declined 1.7 percent, Citigroup in New York fell 2.2
percent, San Francisco-based Wells Fargo gained 1.5 percent,and
JPMorgan advanced 3.2 percent. Ally was bailed out by the
government in 2008 and is pursuing an initial public offering to
repay taxpayers who own the Detroit-based lender.  About 92 percent of home equity loans are held on the
balance sheets of U.S. banks, according to data compiled by
Amherst. The five banks in the mortgage settlement own 42
percent of the second liens. That makes it “very likely” a
servicer of a primary mortgage will hold a property’s junior
loan, Goodman said in a report this month.  “A conflict arises because the servicer has a financial
incentive to service the first lien to the benefit of the
second-lien holder, which may oppose the financial interest of
the investor,” she wrote.  Underwater Homes  Nearly 11 million home loans in the U.S. were underwater in
the third quarter, according to CoreLogic Inc. in  Santa Ana ,
 California . About 4.4 million of them had home equity mortgages,
with an aggregated value of $180 billion. That represents 20
percent of the $888 billion of outstanding second-lien loans,
according to Federal Reserve  data .  Home equity lines of credit, or Helocs, were used during
the 2001 to 2006  housing boom  as a way for owners to cash in on
rising real estate values for money to spend on cars, vacations
and property renovations. In addition, some homeowners
refinanced their primary mortgages into bigger loans to extract
equity from their properties.  “Homeowners everywhere felt richer and rushed to
‘monetize’ the increased value of their homes,”  Warren Buffett ,
chairman and chief executive officer of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ,
said in his Feb. 25 annual  letter  to investors. “These massive
cash infusions fueled a consumption binge throughout our
economy. It all seemed great fun while it lasted.”  Homeowners who took out Helocs were given checks and a
debit card to make the loans easy to tap. Primary-mortgage
holders couldn’t stop, and rarely knew about, homeowners who
took out home equity loans on their collateral.  ‘Cash Registers’  “People turned their homes into cash registers,” said
 Keith Gumbinger , vice president of HSH Associates, a mortgage
data firm in Pompton Plains,  New Jersey . “They used their
Helocs like pre-paid credit cards.”  Home-equity loans were also used as so-called piggyback
mortgages that took the place of down payments. By 2006, when
U.S. home prices peaked, most banks were willing to give “no-
equity equity loans,” lending up to 100 percent of a property’s
value, said Peter Ticktin, a Florida foreclosure attorney. Some
banks advertised loans that exceeded home values by 25 percent.  “Now those home equity loans are so far underwater, they
can’t see the surface,” said Ticktin, who negotiates with banks
on mortgages in default. “The banks have been adamant about
protecting their second-lien interests, no matter how underwater
they are.”  Treating a senior and junior lien on an equal basis will
result in higher rates for primary mortgages as investors add a
 risk premium  to compensate for the danger of higher losses, said
Amherst Securities’ Goodman.  “It will ultimately result in more expensive first lien
mortgages, as investor realize they will be less well protected
than their lien priority would indicate,” said Goodman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen M. Howley in  Boston  at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  