-- Banks Need Simpler, Tougher Capital Standards: Phil Angelides
-- B y   P h i l   A n g e l i d e s
-- 2012-02-27T00:02:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/banks-need-simpler-tougher-capital-standards-phil-angelides.html
When JPMorgan Chase & Co. Chief
Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  appeared before the  Financial
Crisis Inquiry Commission , he testified that he told his
daughter a financial crisis is something that happens every five
to seven years. That observation turned out to be overly
optimistic.  Once again, the world’s financial leaders are cobbling
together a rescue package to avert the potential failure of
highly leveraged financial institutions holding assets of
questionable value. This time, the epicenter of the crisis is
Europe, not the U.S., and the assets at issue are not toxic
mortgages and derivatives, but plain vanilla government bonds.
How could the latest round of global financial turmoil be
triggered by something as simple as government debt?  The answer is that financial regulators, especially in
 Europe , became enamored with complex, “risk-based” capital
standards. The less risky an investment supposedly was, the less
capital a financial institution needed to hold. The capital
standards embodied in  Basel II  -- a compact among regulators,
largely from the Group of 20 countries -- allowed big banks to
rely on their own risk models when deciding how much capital
they needed to underpin their borrowing. The banks embraced this
approach -- after all, what bankers wouldn’t want to set their
own rules?  Flawed Approach  These risk-based standards played a role in the 2008
financial crisis, allowing major financial firms to hold “safe”
mortgage securities with scant capital. Today’s European crisis
has again shown the flaws of this approach.  Under the Basel framework, government debt of developed
countries was assigned a risk weight of zero. That means that
with $1 of capital, major banks could hold unlimited amounts of
the sovereign debt of those nations, while satisfying the risk-
based capital standard’s credit test. Partly because of the
Basel rules, European banks stuffed themselves to the gills with
 government bonds .  The Basel rules said that Greek sovereign debt, which will
now be exchanged by banks for assets at more than a 70 percent
loss on the face value, had zero credit risk.  This approach defied common sense, but it reflected the
hubris of regulators and bankers who believed that risks could
always be quantified and controlled, and that the self-
preservation instincts of bankers would somehow protect the
public interest.  Governments liked the Basel rules because they lowered the
cost of issuing sovereign debt by providing eager buyers. Big
banks liked the rules because they could increase their return
on equity, reaping large profits by making highly leveraged bets
on government bonds. Indeed, why go through all the trouble of
making a small business loan, which you can leverage at only 12-
to-1 under the risk-based standards, when you can make a 50-to-1
wager on government bonds?  Yet, the easy money that flows from high leverage in good
times can turn disastrous in tough times. From the demise of
Long-Term Capital Management LP in 1998, to the near collapse of
the financial system in 2008, to the implosion of MF Global
Holdings Ltd. last year, the pernicious effects of excessive
leverage have been on full display.  There’s a smarter and safer way to set capital standards.
Since the passage of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
Improvement Act of 1991 and with the leadership of the  FDIC ,
regulated U.S. banks have been held to a simple  capital
standard , known as the leverage ratio, requiring them to hold $1
in capital for every $20 in assets.  Simpler Is Better  Partly due to that standard, many banks weathered the
financial storm better than did the investment banks, which were
not subject to the rule and hurtled toward failure in 2008.
Sometimes, simpler is better.  What’s needed are tougher, more transparent capital
standards. The new Dodd-Frank law requires that regulators
subject bank holding companies -- JPMorgan, Citigroup Inc. and
the like -- to leverage rules that encompass off-balance-sheet
activities, which contributed significantly to the 2008 crisis.
And in 2010, the Basel Committee announced that, in the future,
it would test a non-risk-based  leverage ratio  of 3 percent of
total assets, including off-balance-sheet derivatives and
commitments.  While this is a step in the right direction, history has
proven that 33-to-1 leverage is too much. As U.S. bank
regulators consider the adoption of risk-based capital rules
compatible with the Basel framework, they should make sure that
any such rules are supplementary to, and not in lieu of, the
strict and simple leverage ratio of no greater than 20-to-1.  As important, they should ensure that the type of capital
permitted in such a ratio is restricted to tangible common
equity -- in other words, real loss-absorbing capital, not debt
masquerading as equity.  These standards will allow banks to make fair profits,
while protecting the public. And who knows, they might even
encourage banks to make loans to build businesses and create
jobs, rather than place highly leveraged bets that put their
firms and the financial system in peril.  ( Phil Angelides  served as chairman of the Financial Crisis
Inquiry Commission, which conducted the official inquiry into
the financial and economic crisis.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Phil Angelides at  pa@angelides.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Paula Dwyer  at  pdwyer11@bloomberg.net  