-- Barclays May Split $22 Million Fee for Advising on El Paso
-- B y   W i l l   R o b i n s o n
-- 2012-02-27T17:29:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/barclays-tops-m-a-league-table-ranking-following-el-paso.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Evercore Partners
Inc. (EVR)  may split as much as $22 million in fees for advising
Kinder Morgan Inc. on the $7.15 billion sale of  El Paso Corp. (EP) ’s
oil-exploration business, according to researcher Freeman & Co.  Houston-based Kinder Morgan, which is selling the unit to
help finance its $21.1 billion takeover of El Paso, agreed to
sell the oil and gas exploration and production division to a
group led by Apollo Global Management LLC, according to a
statement Feb. 24. Advisers to the Apollo-led group may get as
much as $20 million, said Lam Nguyen, a director at  New York- 
based Freeman.  Barclays may be capitalizing on its strength in energy to
gain some ground in mergers and acquisitions adviser rankings.
After finishing 2010 as the top adviser on oil and gas deals, it
finished last year in second place, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The London-based firm acquired one of the biggest
investment banks in the oil sector through its 2008 purchase of
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ’s North American operations.  “This is the most vigorous segment in an otherwise
somewhat quiet M&A environment,” said Colin Blaydon, director
of the Center for  Private Equity  and Entrepreneurship at
 Dartmouth College ’s Tuck School of Business in Hanover,  New
Hampshire . “The investment banks are very interested in helping
make these deals come to pass because it is currently their best
bet for advising on large transactions.”  $68 Billion in Deals  Barclays, whose investment-banking chief is oil and gas
banker Hugh “Skip” McGee, had advised on 21 deals worth more
than $68 billion this year before the deal was announced,
Bloomberg data show.  Greg Pipkin, co-head of energy investment banking at
Barclays, who advised a group led by KKR & Co. on its $7.2
billion takeover of oil and natural-gas producer Samson
Investment Co. last year, worked with  Kinder Morgan  on the sale
of the El Paso unit. Bankers Christopher Watson, Lee Jacobe and
Bradley Hutchinson joined him on the deal.  Robert Pacha, a senior managing director at Evercore who
was hired from Bank of America Corp. in 2009 to set up a new
Houston office, also advised Kinder Morgan. Raymond Strong,
Shaun Finnie, Lance Dardis and Chris Juban worked with him on
the sale. Evercore, which didn’t have a focused oil and gas
advisory effort until it brought in Pacha, finished 14th in the
league table last year and was boosted by its work for Kinder
Morgan and other clients in the sector.  Debt Financing  Apollo, Riverstone Holdings LLC, Access Industries Holdings
Inc. and other investors are buying the El Paso oil and gas
unit, according to the Feb. 24 statement. They are planning $5.5
billion of debt financing for the purchase, people with
knowledge of the transaction said last week. Apollo has been
more active in energy investing after hiring Greg Beard in 2010
from Riverstone, a New York-based private equity firm that
specializes in the sector.  RBC Capital Markets  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  advised
Apollo. Tudor, Pickering, Holt & Co. also worked with the
buyers.  Separately, Barclays and Evercore may each get $15 million
in fees for advising Kinder Morgan on its purchase of El Paso,
according to a regulatory filing, the largest deal announced
last year.  El Paso’s board agreed to a $650 million termination fee if
its acquisition by Kinder Morgan is not completed. Kinder Morgan
may pay a $400 million breakup fee if the sale of the oil-
exploration unit fails, according to a  regulatory filing .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Will Robinson in New York at 
 wrobinson11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  