-- Bernanke Pessimism Drives Credit With Forced Government Cutbacks
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-02-27T00:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/bernanke-pessimism-drives-easy-credit-with-forced-government-spending-cuts.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is trying to compensate for the damage lawmakers
threaten to inflict on the  U.S. economy , even as Republicans
skewer his stimulus efforts for risking inflation.  The potential drag from fiscal restraint contributed to the
rationale behind policy makers’ reduced forecasts for growth
this year and in 2013, according to the minutes of their Jan.
24-25 meeting. They also decided to extend their commitment to
keep  interest rates   near zero  through at least late 2014 instead
of mid-2013 to provide “more accommodative financial
conditions,” the minutes said.  Bush-era tax cuts and expanded unemployment benefits are
set to expire at the end of the year, and a deficit-reduction
law requiring $1 trillion of cutbacks also kicks in if lawmakers
can’t agree on a new plan. The Fed may keep rates low for longer
because the budget-balancing measures slated for 2013 --
including those automatic cuts, known as sequestration --
threaten to weigh on expansion, said Ward McCarthy, chief
financial economist at Jefferies & Co.  They “would certainly take a bite out of growth,”
McCarthy, a former senior economist for the Federal Reserve Bank
of Richmond, said in a telephone interview from his  New York 
office. “The fact that we have a dysfunctional fiscal policy is
a contributing factor to why we have such extraordinarily
accommodative monetary policy.”  Bernanke, who is scheduled to deliver his semiannual
monetary-policy report to the House Financial Services Committee
on Feb. 29, has urged Congress to avoid sudden tightening while
encouraging it to adopt a long-term program that balances
spending and revenue.  ‘Credible, Strong Plan’  “You want to make a credible, strong plan, but one that
phases in over a period so that the economy will not hit a huge
pothole,” the Fed chairman told the Senate Budget Committee in
 Washington  on Feb. 7. “If no action is taken on Jan. 1, 2013,
between expiration of tax cuts, sequestration and a number of
other measures, there will be a very sharp change in the fiscal
stance of the federal government, which by itself, with no
compensating action, would indeed slow the recovery.”  U.S. fiscal policy will subtract 0.75 percentage point from
the nation’s economic growth in 2013, up from 0.4 point this
year, according to the median response in the Federal Reserve
Bank of New York’s survey of primary dealers before the  Federal
Open Market Committee ’s January meeting.  After Congress waged bitter fights over the debt ceiling
last year that contributed to Standard & Poor’s August downgrade
of the U.S. credit rating, the country again will approach the
borrowing limit late this year. Unless Congress acts, defense
and other spending will be reduced by $1.2 trillion.  Extending Tax Cuts  Democrats and Republicans voted Feb. 17 to extend a
payroll-tax cut through the end of the year. While this is
positive, giving lawmakers almost nine months before they must
address the next significant budget question, “we’ve got all
the things that expire at the end of this year, which is even a
potentially greater fiscal drag,” said  Michael Feroli , chief
U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York.  That’s one reason Fed policy makers are “worried about the
outlook and why they’re not as enthusiastic” about prospects
for the economy, Feroli said.  In January, the Fed lowered its  projected range  for growth
this year to 2.2 percent to 2.7 percent, down from 2.5 percent
to 2.9 percent in November. The range for next year now is 2.8
percent to 3.2 percent, down from a previous forecast of 3
percent to 3.5 percent. The U.S. expanded 1.7 percent in 2011.  ‘Drag’ on Activity  “A number of factors were seen as likely to restrain the
pace of economic expansion, including the slowdown in economic
activity abroad, fiscal tightening” in the U.S. and the impact
from the sovereign-debt crisis in  Europe , according to the
minutes from the January meeting. “Many participants judged
that U.S. fiscal policy would still be a drag on economic
activity in 2013, but many anticipated that progress would be
made in resolving the fiscal situation in Europe.”  European finance ministers approved a 130 billion-euro
($174.8 billion) package for  Greece  on Feb. 21 by tapping into
European Central Bank profits and convincing investors to
provide more debt relief to the Mediterranean country.  While the move is an “important step,” there are “a
number of additional steps that are going to be necessary to put
Greece firmly on a sustainable path,”  Lael Brainard , the U.S.
Treasury Department’s top international official, said in a Feb.
21 interview on the “Charlie Rose” television show.  Worst Political Backlash  Bernanke’s stimulus measures -- which include buying $2.3
trillion of bonds in two rounds of so-called quantitative easing
from December 2008 until June 2011 --already have unleashed the
worst political backlash against the Fed in three decades.
Republicans from House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio  to
presidential candidate Ron Paul of  Texas  have warned that the
Fed’s measures risked a sharp acceleration in prices.  “I was greatly concerned to hear that the Fed recently
announced that it would be willing to accept higher than desired
inflation in order to focus on the other side of its dual
mandate, which is promoting employment,” Republican
Representative Paul Ryan of Wisconsin said at a Feb. 2 hearing
before the House Budget Committee, which he chairs. “And I
would simply just quote Paul Volcker, who said in the late
1970s, ‘central bankers who are willing to tolerate a little
more inflation usually end up getting a whole lot more than they
expected.’”  Bernanke said at the hearing he was “very cognizant of
Chairman Ryan’s concerns but at least for now, we appear to be
pretty close to target,” which he reiterated is a 2 percent
rate of price increases.  No Surge Yet  So far, the surge in inflation hasn’t happened. The
personal-consumption-expenditures price index rose 2.4 percent
for the 12 months ending in December, near the Fed’s goal. Going
forward, the level of inflation may depend on the balance
between fiscal and monetary stimulus, according to  John Silvia ,
chief economist at Wells Fargo Securities LLC in  Charlotte ,
 North Carolina .  If “you’ve got a combination of very easy monetary policy
and very easy fiscal policy, that’s probably not a good
combination,” Silvia said. “Further fiscal restraint in 2013
and 2014” may warrant monetary accommodation.  Bond traders also aren’t predicting a rapid acceleration in
prices. The break-even rate for five-year Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities, the yield difference between the
inflation-linked debt and comparable maturity Treasuries, was
 2.1 percentage points  on Feb. 24. The rate, a measure of the
outlook for consumer prices over the life of the securities, has
fallen from 2.47 points on April 29.  Calls for Fiscal Stimulus  So-called Keynesian economists, including Nobel-prize
winner Paul Krugman, lament the impact of  government-spending 
cuts on the economy and are calling for fiscal stimulus. The
cutbacks -- in the face of an  unemployment rate  that’s held
 above 8 percent  since February 2009 -- are “disheartening,”
Krugman, a professor at Princeton University in  New Jersey , said
Feb. 17 on a panel at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New
York. “The job of the government” is “to step in.”  John  Maynard Keynes  was a British economist who advocated
government spending to spur growth during the Great Depression.  The potential impact from trying to balance the budget
contributed to the Fed’s January decision to push back
expectations for higher rates, Feroli said. The Fed has kept its
target for the benchmark rate on overnight loans among banks
between 0.25 percent and zero since December 2008.  Offsetting Tightening  There’s going to be a “pretty long period of fiscal
tightening, so you should probably be requiring a pretty long
period of monetary accommodation to offset that,” he said.  The U.S. government workforce is projected to shrink 13
percent this decade, while payrolls expand in almost every other
employer category, according to projections this month by the
U.S. Department of Labor. The biggest 10-year decline in federal
employment on record will leave the government with 372,000
fewer workers in 2020 than it had in 2010.  “The recovery is here, but it’s fragile,” Silvia said.
“If we move forward with significant fiscal restraint in terms
of eliminating the Bush tax cuts and cutting defense spending,
the economy’s going to remain slow for a while,” and monetary
policy is “going to stay easy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  