-- Billabong Ends TPG Talks After Rejecting Sweetened $906 Million Takeover
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y   a n d   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 2012-02-28T05:57:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/billabong-ends-tpg-talks-rejects-sweetened-bid.html
Billabong International Ltd. (BBG) ,
Australia’s largest surfwear company, ended talks with TPG
Capital after rejecting a sweetened A$841.8 million ($906
million) takeover offer.  The  Fort Worth , Texas-based buyout firm was prepared to
raise its bid 10 percent to A$3.30 a share to gain access to the
retailer’s accounts, Billabong said in a  statement  today.
Unanimously rejecting the offer, the company’s board also said
founder and largest shareholder Gordon Merchant and another
director wouldn’t consider a bid of less than A$4 a share.  Billabong, which had a market value of A$3.84 billion in
May 2007, plans to sell assets, cut jobs and close stores as
debt payments loom and retailers battle stalling demand
worldwide. The stock today retained most of the gain since TPG’s
approach was disclosed this month, after Billabong said it was
still ready to “engage” with the firm or another suitor.  “It’s not too dramatic a selloff,” said Stan Shamu,
market analyst at IG Markets in  Melbourne . “Most shareholders
would have been thinking this is a great opportunity to salvage
something out of the stock. Whichever way you look at it, it’s a
tough industry to be in at the moment.”  Shares in the Gold Coast-based retailer, which fetched
A$1.79 before Billabong disclosed TPG’s approach on Feb. 17,
fell 2.3 percent to A$2.98 at the close of Sydney trading. The
stock has declined 65 percent in the past 12 months.  Opposing Directors  A letter to the board from lawyers representing Merchant,
who founded Billabong in 1973, and Colette Paull, who  joined the
company  the same year, said both would oppose steps to let TPG
conduct due diligence even with an offer of A$4 a share, the
retailer said.  Merchant owns almost 15 percent of the stock and Paull owns
1.2 percent, according to the company’s 2011 annual report.  Any sale may have to be structured such that Merchant
retains a stake in Billabong after a takeover, Andrew McLennan,
an equity analyst at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia  in Sydney,
said yesterday.  “The board is prepared to engage with TPG or any other
party that makes a proposal which is in the best interest of the
company and its shareholders,” Billabong said in its statement
today.  The offer could be increased to A$3.85 a share and still be
the cheapest comparable clothing sector takeover since at least
1998, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘In Play’  “The company is in play -- there’s obviously a high level
of interest,” said Nick Berry, a Sydney-based analyst at Nomura
Holdings Inc. Still, Merchant’s opposition is an impediment to a
takeover and Billabong’s earnings performance in the next 12
months “probably isn’t going to improve greatly,” he said.  After reaching a record high of A$17.67 in 2007,
Billabong’s shares then slid 90 percent before TPG’s approach
was disclosed, the biggest drop for any consumer discretionary
stock in  Australia ’s benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index in that period.  The company’s  debt  increased following acquisitions as
Billabong sought to reduce reliance on its namesake brand, which
generated almost all of its sales at the time of its IPO in
2000.  Profits tumbled as  consumer spending  slumped in the U.S.,
 Europe  and Australia and major stores introduced their own
brands to compete with independent surf labels. The decline has
been compounded as a stronger Australian dollar cuts the value
of overseas sales when earnings are repatriated.  First-half  net income  fell 72 percent to A$16.1 million in
the six months ended Dec. 31. That was the smallest half-year
profit since the surfwear maker first sold shares to the public
in 2000. Net debt totaled A$525.6 million.  Billabong said this month that it will close as many as 150
of its 677 stores worldwide by June 2013, and cut about 400
jobs. It also agreed to sell 51.5 percent of its Nixon accessory
and clothing business to buyout firm Trilantic Capital Partners
and management to raise $285 million and reduce borrowings by
more than one-third.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  