-- Blackstone Injects $2 Billion Into U.S. Gas Export Plant
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-02-27T21:10:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/blackstone-to-invest-2-billion-in-cheniere-energy-partners.html
Cheniere Energy Partners LP (CQP) ,
operator of the largest U.S. natural gas-import terminal, said
 Blackstone Group LP (BX)  agreed to invest $2 billion toward
construction of a  $10 billion plant  to export the fuel.  The investment by the New York-based  private equity firm 
may help convince creditors to lend the rest of the money needed
to begin construction of the facility in southwest  Louisiana .
Cheniere, which has been seeking to add export capacity to its
import terminal since 2010, plans to begin construction by the
end of June, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Charif Souki
said in a statement.  A flood of gas from shale and other unconventional North
American rock formations produced a surfeit of the furnace and
factory fuel that pushed the price to the lowest in a decade.
ConocoPhillips, Apache Corp. and Sempra Energy are advancing
plans to ship gas in liquid form aboard tankers to overseas
markets such as Japan and  Spain , where it commands higher
prices.  “The U.S. now has some of the cheapest gas in the world,”
Leonard Coburn, president of Washington-based Coburn
International Energy Consultants LLC, said in a telephone
interview. “The gas glut has got people seriously talking about
exporting.”  Blackstone agreed to buy 111 million new senior
subordinated paid-in-kind units for $18 each, according to the
statement. Final terms are contingent on Cheniere securing debt
financing for the first two of four planned liquefaction units.  Breakup Fee  Cheniere is required to pay a $50 million breakup fee to
Blackstone if the $2 billion investment falls through and
Cheniere finds a new equity investor within 12 months, according
to a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filing by Cheniere
today.  Cheniere expects to obtain the remaining financing by March
31, according to the statement. Exports will get under way from
the first two liquefaction units in 2016, the company said. Gas
can be super-cooled to liquid form for shipment via tankers to
markets too remote for pipeline delivery. If built, Cheniere’s
export plant would be the first in the continental U.S.  In  Japan , where domestic gas production is limited,
utilities and chemical makers pay almost six times U.S. prices
for the fuel. Liquefied  gas from Indonesia  sold for $18.21 per
million British thermal units in Japan in December, the last
month for which figures were available, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. In the U.S., the fuel averaged  $3.16 (NGUSHHUB) 
during that month.  Buying Gas  Souki, 59, said in an October interview that Cheniere will
acquire gas for export through its in-house trading desk and an
arrangement with JPMorgan Chase & Co. Cheniere prefers to source
gas on spot markets rather through long-term agreements with
producers that own wells, he said.  Souki has been  selling equity  and signing sales agreements
with European and Asian energy companies to avoid a cash crunch
and attract financing for the project.  Last month, Cheniere Energy Inc., 90.6 percent owner of
Cheniere Energy Partners, used the proceeds from a December
offering to repay the $298 million principal balance on a  term
loan  due in May. The payment cut Cheniere’s outstanding 2012
debt to $204.5 million.  The Cheniere Energy Partners units that Blackstone is
buying will pay 4.2 percent interest quarterly in the form of
additional units. They will convert to common units, which draw
cash payouts, once the first two sections of the plant begin
commercial operation.  Gas Pipeline  The partnership will use cash from the sale to buy the 94-
mile (151-kilometer) pipeline that connects the terminal to the
U.S. gas pipeline network from Cheniere Energy Inc., according
to today’s statement.  Cheniere already has customers lined up to buy gas from the
Sabine Pass plant, including Korea Gas Corp., BG Group Plc, Gas
Natural SDG SA and GAIL India Ltd.  Cheniere Energy Partners climbed 13 percent to close at
$23.70 in  New York , the biggest gain since Aug. 10.  Cheniere
Energy Inc. (LNG)  rose 12 percent to $15.71.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  