-- Blackstone Said to Prepare Pinnacle Foods Business for IPO
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2012-02-27T14:36:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/blackstone-said-to-have-interviewed-banks-for-pinnacle-foods-ipo.html
Private-equity firm  Blackstone Group
LP (BX)  has interviewed banks to handle an initial public offering of
Pinnacle Foods Group LLC, said three people with knowledge of
the situation.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Barclays Plc, Credit Suisse Group
AG and Bank of America Corp. are among the banks that were
interviewed, said the people, who declined to be named because
the process is private. New York-based Blackstone wants to take
Pinnacle public in the next two quarters, said one of the
people. An IPO would value Pinnacle, which distributes brands
including Hungry Man frozen dinners and Birds Eye frozen
vegetables, at $4 billion to $5 billion, one of the people said.  The Pinnacle share sale would add to a growing list of food
stocks that will come to market this year. Both Northfield,
Illinois-based Kraft Foods Inc. and  Downers Grove , Illinois-
based Sara Lee Corp. plan to split off businesses in 2012,
creating two new public companies.  Christine Anderson , a spokeswoman for Blackstone, declined
to comment. Voice and e-mail messages to Pinnacle’s media
relations department weren’t returned. Andrea Raphael, a
spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs, and Victoria Harmon, a
spokeswoman for Credit Suisse, declined to comment. Spokesmen
for Bank of America and Barclays declined to comment.  Blackstone bought Parsippany, New Jersey-based Pinnacle for
$2.2 billion in 2007 and added  Birds Eye Foods Inc. (1279B)  in 2009 for
$1.3 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  