-- BofA, BlackRock Win Venue Appeal in Mortgage-Bond Settlement
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-02-27T22:51:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/bofa-mortgage-bond-settlement-returned-to-n-y-state-court.html
Bank of America Corp.  and a group of
investors that reached an $8.5 billion mortgage-bond settlement
with the bank won their bid to remove the case from a federal
judge and return it to state court.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Manhattan overturned a lower
court ruling and granted a request by Bank of America and the
investor group to remand the case to  New York  state court, where
it was first filed, according to a decision today.  “The case was not removable from state court and must be
remanded,” the appeals court said.  The settlement, which would resolve claims from investors
in Countrywide Financial Corp. mortgage bonds, was filed last
year in New York State Supreme Court and was initially set for
consideration at a November hearing. Before that hearing took
place, the case was removed to federal court by entities under
the name Walnut Place that own some of the securities.  The decision sending the case back to state court is good
for investors in Countrywide bonds because it reduces
uncertainty in the settlement,  Barclays Capital  said in a
research note after the decision. Bank of America acquired
Countrywide in 2008.  “The move back to New York state court increases the
likelihood of the settlement going through and pushes the
timeline forward,” Barclays said.  Negotiated Settlement  Bank of America along with the group of institutional
investors that negotiated the settlement, including  BlackRock
Inc. (BLK) , fought the transfer of the case to federal court and
argued the case belonged in state court. They were joined by
 Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , the mortgage bond trustee, which
sought approval for settlement in state court.  “We are pleased the jurisdictional issues have been
resolved and we can now move toward getting the settlement
approved,”  Robert Madden , an attorney for the investor group,
said in a telephone interview.  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America, said the lender looks forward to
completing the court proceeding to obtain approval for the
agreement.  “Bank of America’s chief interest has been that the
proposed settlement be considered and eventually approved by a
court of unquestionable jurisdiction,” Grayson said in a
statement. “We are gratified that the matter has been resolved
on appeal.”  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  and other investors
affected by the settlement have criticized the terms or have
demanded more information to evaluate the deal. New York
Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  also intervened in the case
and asked that the settlement be rejected.  Kevin Heine, a spokesman for Bank of New York, and  Owen
Cyrulnik , a lawyer for Walnut Place, declined to comment.  The case is Bank of New York Mellon v. Walnut Place LLC,
11-cv-05988, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 