-- Bovis Profit Climbs After U.K. Homebuilder’s Margins Widen
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-02-27T16:45:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/bovis-profit-increases-after-company-sells-homes-with-wider-profit-margins.html
Bovis Homes Group Plc (BVS) , the second-
worst performing U.K. homebuilder stock in the past 12 months,
said 2011 earnings rose after the company’s profit margin
widened.  Net income climbed to 23.3 million pounds ($37 million)
from 14 million pounds a year earlier, the Longfield, England-
based company said in a statement today. The operating margin
widened to 10 percent from 7.2 percent.  U.K. homebuilders are boosting profit margins by focusing
more on houses and developing low-cost land. Bovis predicted a
return on capital employed of at least 7 percent for this year,  “Bovis is trying to improve its return on capital invested
by building more and opening smaller outlets,” Robin Hardy, an
analyst at Peel Hunt LLP in  London , said in a note to investors.
“It may have the assets, but by being tied up on large sites
with relatively slow asset turn, it cannot produce earnings at a
high enough pace.”  Bovis rose 4.5 pence, 0.9 percent, to 510 pence at the 4:30
p.m. close in London, giving the company a market value 682
million pounds. The shares have gained 11 percent in the past 12
months, while the Bloomberg EMEA Home Builders Index has climbed
about 20 percent.  Higher Prices  Analysts expected net income of 23.1 million pounds, the
average of four estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The average
selling price of Bovis’s homes rose by 5 percent to 180,100
pounds.  “There’s strong growth in our profit margins,” Chief
Executive Officer David Ritchie said on a conference call today.
“The operating margin, for the first time in a number of years,
is back into double digits.”  The U.K.’s coalition government is trying to spur
construction after homebuilding in England and  Wales  fell in
2010 to the lowest during peacetime since 1924.  House prices 
held their value for a second month in February as buyers rushed
to beat the end of a property-tax exemption, Hometrack Ltd. said
today. Values are 1.4 percent lower than a year earlier, the
London-based property research company said in a report.  Stamp Duty  A two-year property-tax exemption for first-time buyers
purchasing a home for less than 250,000 pounds ends next month.
Bovis said it will offer customers discounts so that the tax
break is effectively extended for the foreseeable future,
Ritchie said on the call.  The company completed 2,045 homes in 2011, an increase of 8
percent from a year earlier. Net private reservations have risen
41 percent in the first eight weeks of 2012 from the same period
a year ago.  “What is still holding back activity is people’s inability
to get hold of a 95 percent loan-to-value mortgage,” Ritchie
said on the call.  Starting in the second quarter, those seeking a new home
will be able to get a mortgage with a down payment of as little
as 5 percent under a government-backed guarantee. Previously,
new-home buyers have used the state’s FirstBuy Program, which
helps people get cheaper mortgages with an interest-free loan
from the developer and the government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 