-- BP, Merrill, Monsanto, Google, Apple in Court News
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-02-27T12:33:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/bp-anadarko-merrill-monsanto-google-apple-in-court-news.html
BP Plc (BP/)  and plaintiffs suing over the
2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill are discussing a $14 billion
accord that would be funded with money originally set aside by
the company for out-of-court settlements, according to three
people familiar with the talks.  BP would agree to close down its $20 billion  Gulf Coast
Claims Facility  and shift the remaining $14 billion to
plaintiffs who contend the spill harmed their businesses and
properties, the people said. A deal with the plaintiffs wouldn’t
include potential pollution fines. BP set up the GCCF in August
2010 to allow spill victims to receive compensation more quickly
than by pursuing lawsuits. The fund has paid out about $6
billion so far, according to its website.  The April 2010 Macondo well blowout sent more than 4
million barrels of oil spewing into the gulf over 87 days,
making it the largest offshore spill in U.S. history. The
disaster spawned hundreds of lawsuits against BP and its
partners, including  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the Vernier, Switzerland-
based owner and operator of the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig,
and Houston-based  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which provided cementing
services at the facility.  The progress in settlement discussions allowed BP to
persuade a federal judge in New Orleans yesterday to delay a
multibillion-dollar liability trial over the spill that was set
to begin today. They asked for extra time to allow talks to
continue, the company and plaintiffs said in a joint statement.
They didn’t make reference to the $14 billion proposal.  Ellen Moskowitz , a spokeswoman for BP, declined to comment
on the proposed accord beyond the earlier joint statement. David
Falkenstein, a spokesman for the lead plaintiffs’ lawyers in the
case, didn’t return calls seeking comment yesterday.  For more, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Merrill Lynch Advisers Can Sue as a Group, Court Rules  Black Merrill Lynch financial advisers suing for
discrimination can pursue their case as a group, an appeals
court ruled on Feb. 24, reversing a lower-court decision.  The U.S. Appeals Court panel in Chicago, in a unanimous
decision written by Circuit Judge Richard A. Posner, said
allowing class treatment will prevent courts from having to
decide in individual trials whether the challenged practices by
Merrill Lynch, now part of  Bank of America Corp. , were illegal.  Broker George McReynolds of Nashville, Tennessee, sued in
2005, alleging Merrill Lynch’s practices and procedures favored
white financial advisers over their black counterparts,
impairing their ability to make comparable incomes. He, along
with other plaintiffs who joined the case, sought to represent
about 700 advisers and trainees who worked in the firm’s Global
Private Client unit since January 2001.  “We disagree with the ruling and we are still evaluating
the decision but believe that the ruling does not fundamentally
change our views that the allegations lack merit,”  Shirley
Norton , a spokeswoman for Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank
of America, said in an e-mail.  The case is McReynolds v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner &
Smith Inc., 11-3639, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh
Circuit (Chicago), and 05-cv-6583, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Illinois (Chicago).  Vulcan, Martin Marietta to Face Off in Trial Over Takeover Bid  Vulcan Materials Co. (VMC)  and hostile suitor  Martin Marietta
Materials Inc. (MLM)  face off in Delaware Chancery Court tomorrow in a
trial over a $4.7 billion takeover that would create the world’s
largest producer of sand, gravel and crushed stone.  The court’s chief judge, Leo Strine Jr., must decide
whether a 2010 agreement between the companies prohibits Martin
Marietta from offering to buy Vulcan’s public shares and
soliciting votes for five nominees for its board, according to
court papers. Strine also has to say whether the agreement
limits litigation to courts in Delaware. Martin Marietta filed
the case, asking the court to declare that it hasn’t violated
any agreement with Vulcan.  Martin Marietta, based in Raleigh, North Carolina, offered
on Dec. 12 to exchange half a share for each share of Vulcan and
pay a quarterly dividend equal to 20 cents a Vulcan share to
partly restore the dividend cut to 1 cent last year.  Vulcan Chairman Don James has said Martin Marietta is
trying to take advantage of a construction recession to buy
Vulcan with a “very low-ball” offer. Vulcan has been saddled
with debt and losses after it paid $4.2 billion for Florida Rock
Industries Inc. in 2007 just before the industry slumped.  The case is Martin Marietta Materials v. Vulcan Materials,
CA7102, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  MF Global Judge Urges Plaintiffs’ Lawyers to Get Organized  The judge who may oversee investor lawsuits against Jon
Corzine, MF Global Holdings Ltd.’s former chief executive
officer, and separate cases filed by customers of the firm
suggested that plaintiffs’ lawyers organize themselves to push
the suits forward.  “Something big happened at MF Global last December,” U.S.
District Judge  Victor Marrero  said at an initial conference on
Friday in  Manhattan  federal court, where dozens of lawyers in at
least three set of lawsuits gathered. “Whether the case is in
 New York  or Chicago or somewhere else, you’re going to need a
leadership structure.”  A panel of judges from federal judicial districts across
the country will hear arguments on March 29 on where lawsuits
stemming from the collapse of MF Global will be heard. The suits
name Corzine and other executives. Separate bankruptcy
litigation is proceeding in New York.  At least three sets of cases are pending: a class action,
or group, suit by holders of MF Global securities; a group of
suits claiming violations of commodities laws by customers of
brokerage MF Global Inc.; and another customer case by Sapere
CTA Fund LP, which says it lost $90 million at the brokerage.  Law firms  Bernstein Litowitz Berger & Grossman LLP (142230L)  and
 Labaton Sucharow LLP  are taking the lead in the securities cases
on behalf of investors. Attorneys for clients who lost money at
the brokerage are still negotiating over leadership.  Marrero said he wouldn’t issue orders until the
multidistrict litigation panel determines where the cases will
proceed.  The main case is DeAngelis v. Corzine, 11-cv-7866, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Privacy Group Can’t Force FTC Google Action, Judge Rules  A legal challenge to  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s privacy policy was
dismissed by a judge who said she lacked authority to order the
Federal Trade Commission to take action against the world’s most
popular search engine.  U.S. District Judge Amy Berman Jackson in a ruling on
Friday in  Washington  said Congress didn’t give federal courts
jurisdiction to monitor FTC enforcement of consent decrees.  The Electronic Privacy Information Center, or EPIC, sued
Feb. 8, claiming Google’s planned changes to its privacy policy
violate a consent order requiring the company to protect
consumer data.  “EPIC -- along with many other individuals and
organizations -- has advanced serious concerns that may well be
legitimate,” Jackson wrote in her ruling. “The FTC, which has
advised the court that the matter is under review, may
ultimately decide to institute an enforcement action.”  Google, based in Mountain View,  California , announced plans
on Jan. 24 to unify privacy policies for 60 services and
products including YouTube videos and Android software for
mobile phones. The move, set to take effect March 1, would
simplify conditions for user agreements, the company said.  “The judge did not reach the merits of the EPIC
complaint,”  Marc Rotenberg , EPIC’s executive director, said in
an e-mail. The group filed a notice of appeal with the court
Friday.  “We take our settlement orders very seriously, but only
the FTC and not outside parties should be able to enforce
them,” Claudia Bourne Farrell, a commission spokeswoman, said
in an e-mail.  Chris Gaither , a Google spokesman, said in an e-
mailed statement that the new policy will make the company’s
privacy practices easier to understand and reflects the
company’s desire to create a “seamless experience” for its
signed-in users.  The case is Electronic Privacy Information Center v.
Federal Trade Commission, 12-00206, U.S. District Court,
District of Columbia (Washington).  For more, click here.  U.S. Attorney Seeks Jerry Sandusky Records From Penn State  The U.S. Attorney’s Office in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania,
subpoenaed records in the sexual-abuse case of former
Pennsylvania State University assistant football coach Jerry
Sandusky.  Penn State received the request around Feb. 2 from U.S.
Attorney Peter J. Smith, said Lisa Powers, a spokeswoman for the
university. Prosecutors are seeking information about Sandusky
and The Second Mile charity he founded in 1977, the university,
former Penn State President Graham Spanier, athletic director
Tim Curley and former senior vice president  Gary Schultz .  “The university is fully cooperating with this request for
information,” Powers said in an e-mail Feb. 24.  The subpoena requested information from 1998 to the
present, as well as records of any payments by board members to
the university or to third parties on the university’s behalf,
Powers said in another e-mail. The subpoena also seeks reporting
requirements of employers and staff relating to allegations of
misconduct by staff or individuals associated with the
university, Powers said.  Nils Frederiksen, a spokesman for state Attorney General
Linda Kelly, declined to comment on whether the subpoena is part
of a joint investigation. Heidi Havens, a spokeswoman for Smith
in Harrisburg, also declined to comment.  Joseph Amendola, Sandusky’s attorney, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  The Sandusky case is Commonwealth of Pennsylvania v.
Sandusky, CP-14-2422-2011, Court of Common Pleas, Centre County,
Pennsylvania (Bellefonte).  New York Schools Can Be Used for Worship, U.S. Judge Says  New York City  said it will immediately appeal a Manhattan
federal judge’s refusal to unblock the city’s ban of worship
inside public school facilities.  U.S. District Judge  Loretta Preska  on Feb. 24 granted a
request from the Bronx Household of Faith that will allow its
members to continue meeting in a city public school on Sundays
despite the city’s ban on the use of public schools for worship
services.  The legal battle dates to 1995, when the church sued the
city. The church argued the city was violating the First
Amendment by denying it use of a school while allowing other
community groups access to campuses for their activities.  Last year, the U.S. Court of Appeals in Manhattan,
overturning Preska’s 2007 decision in favor of the church, ruled
that the city may prohibit religious groups from using school
facilities outside of regular school hours for worship services.  Preska has since issued orders allowing churches to worship
at public schools, finding on other legal grounds that they have
a right to do so. The latest ruling came Feb. 24 in a 51-page
opinion.  The case is Bronx Household of Faith v. Board of Education
of the City of New York, 01-cv-08598, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Verdicts, Settlements and Pleas  Monsanto Settles West Virginia Lawsuits Over Nitro Plant  Monsanto Co. (MON) , the world’s biggest seed company, agreed to
settle all pending litigation relating to dioxin contamination
from a plant in Nitro, West Virginia, that produced Agent Orange
herbicide decades ago.  The settlements to the litigation, which include class-
action lawsuits filed in the state, provide as much as $9
million to have 4,500 homes professionally cleaned, St. Louis-
based Monsanto said Feb. 24 in a statement. Monsanto also will
provide as much as $84 million over 30 years for medical
monitoring of current and former residents, workers and
students, and it will pay the community’s legal fees and court
costs over the past seven years.  The plant, which operated from 1929 to 2004 under various
owners, produced Agent Orange, used during the Vietnam War to
defoliate jungle vegetation. The process to make Agent Orange
was found to produce  dioxins , which are linked to cancer and
other ailments. Monsanto hasn’t made Agent Orange since  1969 .  “We are please to resolve this matter and end any concerns
about historic operations at the Nitro plant,” Scott Partridge,
Monsanto counsel, said in the statement.  “The settlements provide needed medical benefits and
remediation services to the people of Nitro and broader
community,” Stuart Caldwell, class counsel, said in the
statement.  California Investor Pleads Guilty in Bid-Rigging Scheme  A  California real estate  investor admitted that he
conspired to rig bids at foreclosure auctions, becoming the 10th
person to plead guilty in a U.S. probe of the practice,
authorities said.  Wiley Chandler pleaded guilty in federal court in
Sacramento, California, to conspiring with other real estate
investors to rig bids at real estate  foreclosure  auctions in San
Joaquin County, according to a Feb. 24 statement by the U.S.
Justice Department and federal prosecutors in Sacramento.  A defense attorney, Claudia Quiroz, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment on the plea.  Nine others have pleaded guilty in a scheme that ran from
September 2008 to at least October 2009, prosecutors said.  The case is U.S. v. Chandler, 11-cr-00511, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of California (Sacramento).  Glaxo Has Right to Sell Generic Paxil CR, U.S. Judge Rules  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  has the right to sell an authorized
copy of its Paxil CR antidepressant to Apotex Inc., a U.S. judge
ruled, denying a bid by  Mylan (MYL)  Inc. to block such sales.  Mylan (MYL) , the generic-drug company which signed a two-year
licensing agreement in 2008 to market a copy of Paxil CR,
claimed that Glaxo breached that contract by working with
Toronto-based Apotex to sell a copy of the drug. U.S. District
Judge Joel Pisano ruled that the agreement allowed Glaxo to sell
generic Paxil CR to Apotex.  The license was “clear and unambiguous” and that let
London-based Glaxo choose whomever it wanted to work with,
Pisano ruled Feb. 23 in federal court in Trenton,  New Jersey .  “The language plainly states that GSK may commence
marketing and selling of authorized generic Paxil CR after
Mylan’s two-year period of exclusivity,” Pisano ruled. “GSK
did exactly that. It marketed and sold authorized generic Paxil
CR to Apotex.”  The case is Mylan Inc. v. SmithKline Beecham Corp., 10-
cv-4809, U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey (Trenton).  Fairey Pleads Guilty to Criminal Count Involving Obama Image  Shepard Fairey, the artist who created an iconic 2008
election poster of Barack Obama based on an Associated Press
photo, pleaded guilty to criminal counts of destroying documents
and manufacturing evidence.  Fairey, 42, of  Los Angeles , entered his plea Feb. 24 before
Magistrate Judge Frank Maas in federal court in Manhattan, U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara said in an e-mailed statement. Fairey
faces as long as six months in prison.  The criminal plea stems from a civil copyright case Fairey
and AP settled last year, Geoffrey Stewart, Fairey’s lawyer in
that case, said in an interview. Friday’s plea doesn’t
jeopardize the settlement, Stewart said.  Fairey “went to extreme lengths to obtain an unfair and
illegal advantage in his civil litigation, creating fake
documents and destroying others in an effort to subvert the
civil discovery process,” Bharara said in the statement.  Dan Gitner, Fairey’s lawyer in the criminal case, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment on the plea.  In support of Obama’s 2008 presidential campaign, Fairey
made posters using a stylized likeness of the candidate with the
words “Hope” and “Progress” below the images, relying on a
photograph copyrighted by AP, according to the statement.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Fairey, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The civil case is
Fairey v. Associated Press, 09-cv-01123, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Ex-Flextronics Manager Walter Shimoon Settles Case With SEC  Walter Shimoon, a former  Flextronics International Ltd. (FLEX) 
executive who pleaded guilty last year to insider trading, has
settled a related civil case with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, according to court records.  Shimoon won’t pay a civil penalty because he is cooperating
with the agency’s investigation of insider trading, according to
a filing Feb. 24 in federal court in Manhattan. He agreed to be
“precluded from arguing” in the future that he didn’t violate
federal securities laws.  Shimoon pleaded guilty in July to conspiracy and securities
fraud. At the time, Shimoon told a judge that he passed illegal
tips to John Kinnucan, founder of  Broadband Research  LLC, while
working as a consultant for  Primary Global Research LLC  and
Broadband Research. Shimoon is also cooperating with
prosecutors.  Kinnucan, whose Portland, Oregon-based firm provides
research on technology companies to hedge funds and mutual
funds, was arrested on insider-trading charges last week.  Henry Mazurek , Shimoon’s lawyer, declined to comment on the
settlement.  The case is U.S. v. Shimoon, 11-cv-753, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  New Suits  Proview Sues Apple in U.S. Court Over 2009 IPAD Trademark Deal  Proview International Holdings Ltd. (334) , seeking to block
shipments of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad tablet computer in and out of
 China , separately asked a court in California to stop the U.S.
company from using IPAD trademarks.  A December 2009 agreement in which a Proview unit agreed to
sell IPAD trademarks to Apple’s IP Application Development Ltd.
should be canceled, Proview said in a Feb. 17 filing to the
California Superior Court in Santa Clara. IP Application made
“false” statements to Proview in correspondence before the
agreement, the filing said.  Apple acquired Proview’s worldwide rights to the iPad
trademark in 10 countries, including China, the Cupertino,
California-based company said Feb. 14. Proview is refusing to
honor an agreement with Apple in China, Apple said. Carolyn Wu,
a Beijing-based spokeswoman at Apple, declined to comment on
Proview’s U.S. lawsuit beyond the statement last week.  Graham Robinson, an agent for IP Application, used the name
Jonathan Hargreaves in correspondence with Proview before the
Dec. 23, 2009 agreement to acquire all of Proview’s IPAD-related
trademarks for 35,000 pounds ($55,267), the court filing said.  Proview applied to China’s Customs Bureau to block exports
as well as imports of the iPad tablet computer, Roger Xie, a
lawyer for Proview, said last week.  The case is Proview Electronics Co. v. Apple Inc. and IP
Application Development, 12-cv-219219, California Superior
Court, Santa Clara County.  Kenneth Cole Sued Over Founder’s Bid to Take Company Private  Kenneth Cole Productions Inc. (KCP)  and its namesake founder were
sued by a shareholder seeking to block a bid to take the shoe
and clothing maker private.  Astor BK Realty Trust accused the company, founder Kenneth
D. Cole, Chief Executive Officer Paul Blum and four board
members of breaching their fiduciary duties in the lawsuit filed
Feb. 24 in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan.  “The buyout is designed to unlawfully divest KCP’s
stockholders of a large portion of the valuable assets of the
company for inadequate consideration,” Astor said in the
complaint. “Cole knows that the company possesses numerous
assets that will continue to produce substantial revenue and
earnings, which he wishes to keep for himself.”  Kenneth Cole, who holds 47 percent of the New York-based
company’s outstanding shares, offered to buy the remaining stake
Feb. 24 in a deal that valued the business at $280 million. The
bid of $15 a share is 15 percent more than the closing price on
Feb. 23.  A telephone message left at Kenneth Cole Productions
headquarters seeking comment on the lawsuit wasn’t immediately
returned.  The case is Astor BK Realty Trust v. Cole, 650521/2012, New
York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Court Filings  The bankruptcy of  Eastman Kodak Co. (EK)  was the most-read
docket on the Bloomberg Law system last week.  On Feb. 15, the photography pioneer won a judge’s approval
to borrow the full amount of a $950 million debt financing
commitment that the company will use to support operations while
it restructures.  The company has also ended its sponsorship of the theater
in Los Angeles where last night’s Oscars took place. U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Allan Gropper in Manhattan approved a request
to end the sponsorship agreement to save money as the company
restructures. Kodak pays $3.6 million a year and had $38 million
in payments left on the contract, Pauline Morgan, a Kodak
lawyer, said in court.  The case is In re Eastman Kodak Co., 12-10202, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan)  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 