-- BP Preparing New Plan With Reliance for India’s Gas Block
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2012-02-28T05:22:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/bp-preparing-new-plan-with-reliance-for-india-s-biggest-gas-area.html
BP Plc (BP/)  said it’s developing a new
plan with partner  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , operator of India’s
biggest natural gas deposit, to develop discoveries in the area
simultaneously instead of in phases.  “We’ve spent six months studying the reservoir and we are
now working on the plan that will use existing infrastructure
for production and minimize additional costs,” Sashi Mukundan,
BP’s India chief, said in New Delhi yesterday.  BP,  Europe ’s second-biggest oil company, paid  $7.2 billion 
to buy stakes in Indian fields operated by Reliance, including
KG-D6, where output has dropped by more than a third because of
technical issues. Output from the R-Series cluster, where the
government has approved one discovery, and satellite fields in
the block may start by the end of 2014, Mukundan said.  “The announcement gives some kind of confidence that BP
and Reliance are working to raise output, but we have to see how
things turn out,” said  Deepak Pareek , a Mumbai-based analyst at
Prabhudas Lilladher Pvt.  An e-mail sent to Reliance seeking comment wasn’t
immediately answered.  Reliance  climbed  1.6 percent to 794 rupees at 10:47 a.m. in
Mumbai. The stock has risen 15 percent this year compared with a
14 percent gain in the benchmark  Sensitive Index. (SENSEX)   The shares fell because there’s been some profit-taking,
Pareek said. “It has increased a lot this year and this is a
correction.”  Gas Prices  The proposal for the KG-D6 block, with production and
spending projections, will be submitted in the next few weeks
for the Indian government’s approval, Mukundan told reporters.
BP is seeking market prices for gas produced in  India , including
output from the newer discoveries, he said.  “For the future gas, India needs to have a market-
determined price,” Mukundan said. “We hope we get import
parity pricing for gas.”  Gas from the KG-D6 field, off India’s east coast, is sold
at $4.2 per million British thermal units, excluding taxes and
transportation costs. The price will be reviewed in April 2014,
according to the Indian government.  Japan , the world’s biggest buyer of liquefied natural gas,
paid $798 a metric ton, equivalent to $15.35 per million British
thermal units, last year, according to data on the website of
the Tokyo-based ministry.  The government has approved one discovery in the R-Series
field as financially viable, Mukundan said. The deposit is
estimated to hold about 1.6 trillion cubic feet (45 billion
cubic meters) of gas and may be capable of producing more than
10 million cubic meters a day at a peak rate, a person with
direct knowledge of the matter said Feb. 17.  Gas Output  Three areas in the KG-D6 block in the  Bay of Bengal 
produced about 38 million cubic meters a day in the three months
ended Dec. 31. Output has declined from about 45 million cubic
meters a day in the preceding quarter and a peak of 60 million
cubic meters a day in 2010, according to Reliance.  The block started producing gas in April 2009 and peak
output was estimated to rise to 80 million cubic meters a day.
The estimated cost of developing the block was increased by
Reliance to $8.8 billion in October 2006 from $2.4 billion in
May 2004, the Comptroller & Auditor General of India said in a
report on Sept. 8.  Gas from the KG-D6 block is sold to fertilizer-makers and
power utilities, which sell products at controlled prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  