-- BP Said to Consider $14 Billion Oil Spill Settlement Deal
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-02-27T19:41:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/bp-said-to-consider-14-billion-settlement-proposal-for-mexican-gulf-spill.html
BP Plc (BP/)  and lawyers for businesses
and individuals suing over the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill are
near a $14 billion accord to be funded with money set aside for
out-of-court settlements, according to three people familiar
with the talks.  BP would close its $20 billion  Gulf Coast Claims Facility 
and shift the remaining $14 billion to plaintiffs hurt by the
disaster, the largest offshore spill in U.S. history, the people
said. Such a deal wouldn’t include fines by the federal
government that could reach $17.6 billion, lawsuits by state
governments or claims between BP and partner companies involved
in the disaster. BP shares rose almost 2 percent on news of the
potential deal to their highest point in more than a year.  The April 2010 Macondo well blowout destroyed the Deepwater
Horizon rig, killed 11 workers and sent more than 4 million
barrels of oil spewing into the gulf over three months. It
spawned hundreds of suits against London-based BP, Vernier,
Switzerland-based  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , owner and operator of the
doomed rig, and Houston-based  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , provider of
cementing services at the site.  “They could be about 90 or 95 percent done and now they
have to go that last yard, which is always the toughest,”  Carl Tobias , who teaches mass-tort law at the  University of Richmond 
in  Virginia , said of the proposed accord. “There could be an
awful lot of money that is still in play or provisions that are
hard to swallow for one side or the other.”  The discussions between the plaintiffs and BP are nearing
completion, said the people, who declined to be identified
because they weren’t authorized to speak publicly.  Trial Delay  The progress allowed BP to persuade a federal judge in  New
Orleans  to delay by a week a multibillion-dollar liability trial
over the spill that was set to begin today. They asked for extra
time to allow talks to continue, the company and plaintiffs said
yesterday in a joint statement. They didn’t make reference to
the $14 billion proposal.  David Falkenstein, a spokesman for the lead plaintiffs’
lawyers in the case, didn’t return calls seeking comment.
 Ellen Moskowitz , a spokeswoman for BP, declined to comment on
the proposed accord beyond the earlier statement on the delay.  BP shares rose 1.1 percent to 501.70 pence in London
trading.  Government Fines  The company has been in settlement talks for months with
the federal government, other companies facing liability for the
spill, as well as plaintiffs lawyers, people familiar with the
discussions have said.  The proposed $14 billion agreement would be separate from
BP’s talks with the government, the people said.  The U.S. Clean Water Act lets the U.S. seek fines of as
much as $1,100 for each barrel of oil spilled as a result of
simple negligence, often described as a failure to exercise
ordinary care. The maximum increases to $4,300 a barrel for
gross negligence, or a conscious act or omission, leaving BP
liable for as much as $17.6 billion in fines.  BP set aside $3.5 billion to pay Clean Water Act fines
based on its own lower estimate of barrels spilled and no
finding of gross negligence.  U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier , who would preside over
the trial now scheduled to start March 5, would decide whether
BP can demand other firms involved in the spill help pick up the
tab for the estimated $26 billion in costs spawned by the
destruction of the Deepwater Horizon.  If there isn’t a deal reached by all sides, the judge must
determine whether the companies should pay punitive damages to
thousands of business and property owners, and fines to the
government for polluting the  Gulf of Mexico .  Settlement Terms  The proposed settlement with the non-governmental
plaintiffs would allow lawyers to use the claims fund to set up
a system for compensating spill victims based on the type of
harm they suffered, the people familiar with the talks said. The
system may be similar to those used to decide recoveries in
class-action cases, they said.  The claims fund was set up to make emergency and other
types of payments to spill victims under the U.S. Oil Pollution
Act to speed up assistance and cut down on the number of claims
filed in court.  Attorneys for some victims argued in court filings that
officials of the fund, run by Washington-based lawyer  Kenneth
Feinberg , used “coercive tactics” to force business and
property owners to accept inadequate payments for their claims
and give up their rights to sue. Feinberg, chosen to run the
claims fund by BP in 2010, declined to comment on the proposed
settlement.  Joe Rice  One of the lead negotiators for the plaintiffs’ lawyers
group pushing the $14 billion settlement proposal is Joe Rice, a
South Carolina-based lawyer who helped craft the 1999 agreement
under which  Philip Morris  and three other cigarette makers
agreed to pay states $246 billion for treating smoking-related
illnesses, the people familiar with the BP talks said.  Rice, who cofounded the Charleston, South Carolina-based
law firm of Motley Rice, didn’t return calls seeking comment
today on his role in the BP settlement talks.  Barbier agreed to add Rice to the Plaintiffs Steering
Committee in the BP case, which oversees the handling of spill
victims’ claims consolidated in New Orleans, in October,
according to court filings.  While lawyers for plaintiffs whose cases have been
consolidated before Barbier proposed the settlement, attorneys
for other spill victims may oppose it as inadequate, the people
familiar with the talks said.  Deal Opposition  Brent Coon, a Houston-based lawyer representing spill
victims both in federal and state courts, said he worries $14
billion won’t provide enough compensation for those harmed in
the disaster.  “I’m concerned that the $14 billion fund isn’t adequate,
and I’m concerned that just transferring oversight of the fund
to our own group may or may not be enough to solve the
problems,” he said in an interview.  Plaintiffs’ lawyers and the companies still haven’t been
able to pin down the total number of claims tied to the spill
because filing deadlines don’t expire for a year, he said.  “The total claims could double from where they are now,”
Coon said.  Another problem with the settlement proposal is lawyers for
the steering committee don’t represent the majority of victims
in the case, Coon said, which he said raises questions about
their ability to act in the best interests of all claimants.  “A very small minority of lawyers are negotiating a deal
that leaves them in control of the purse strings and let’s them
dole it out,” he said. “I know a number of lawyers who are
extraordinarily hostile to that idea.”  Cross Claims  BP agreed in October to a $4 billion settlement with
 Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , which owned a 25 percent stake in the
Macondo well. It also agreed earlier this month to drop claims
against drilling fluid provider M-I Swaco, a unit of Houston-
based  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB)   Transocean officials alleged in a Feb. 24 court filing that
BP officials overseeing the well ignored questions about whether
safety tests done hours before the blast were flawed.  Donald Vidrine , the senior BP manager on the Deepwater
Horizon on April 20, 2010, talked with an engineer about
unsatisfactory well tests less than an hour before the explosion,
Transocean’s attorneys said.  Warning  While Mark Hafle, a Houston-based BP drilling engineer,
warned Vidrine in a phone call that stability tests on the well
might be flawed, “neither man stopped work” at the facility,
Transocean said.  The BP officials allowed crews to continue displacing
drilling fluid in the well with seawater, the attorneys for oil-
drilling company said. Experts who reviewed the companies’
handling of the well noted that once the fluid was removed, the
lighter seawater couldn’t stop natural gas from leaking into the
well and causing an explosion.  Scott Dean , a BP spokesman, declined to comment on the
Transocean filing about the flawed safety tests.  Vidrine has refused to testify, citing medical-related
problems and Hafle has invoked his constitutional protection
against self-incrimination for refusing to testify.  The case is In re  Oil Spill  by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana  (New Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in New Orleans
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  