-- BTG Pactual Said to Choose Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan to Work on Brazil IPO
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2012-02-28T19:15:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/btg-pactual-said-to-choose-goldman-sachs-jpmorgan-to-work-on-brazil-ipo.html
Banco BTG Pactual SA, the Brazilian
bank led by billionaire  Andre Esteves , has chosen  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  to work on an initial public
offering, according to a person familiar with the matter.  The bank plans to sell 10 percent of itself in the IPO
through primary shares on the  Sao Paulo  exchange, said the
person, who declined to be identified because the process is
private. Representatives at BTG, JPMorgan and Goldman Sachs
declined to comment. The filing may happen this week, the person
said.  Brazilian companies are lining up to complete IPOs as
foreigners resume buying stocks from  Brazil  after demand plunged
last year, Eduardo Refinetti Guardia, BM&FBovespa SA’s chief
financial officer, said this month. IPOs in 2012 will probably
exceed last year’s 6.51 billion reais ($3.8 billion) as
investors return after withdrawing funds in 2011 amid concern
that global economic conditions would deteriorate, he said.  BTG postponed its IPO after selling about 18 percent of the
company to a group of investors in December 2010. It sold a $1.8
billion stake to a group that includes the Rothschild family and
 Italy ’s Agnelli family, which controls automaker Fiat SpA. Other
investors include J.C. Flowers & Co., Government of Singapore
Investment Corp., China Investment Corp. and the Abu Dhabi
Investment Council.  The 2010 transaction valued BTG at about $10 billion. On
Feb. 8 2012, BTG announced the buying of Chile’s brokerage firm
Celfin Capital SA for $245 million in cash and 2.4 percent of
BTG equity, for a total of $600 million, according to a person
familiar with the matter. The equity portion means that BTG was
worth about $15 billion in the deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  