-- Buffett Says Energy Future Bet at Risk of Being Wiped Out
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-02-27T21:12:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/buffett-says-energy-future-bond-bet-at-risk-of-being-wiped-out.html
Warren Buffett , who bought about $2
billion in bonds of power company Energy Future Holdings Corp.,
said the investment is at risk of losing all its value after
natural gas prices fell.  Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  wrote down the debt by
$390 million last year, following a $1 billion impairment in
2010, the billionaire said in his annual  letter  to shareholders
posted Feb. 25 on the company’s website. The market value of the
investment was $878 million at the end of December, he said.  “If gas prices remain at present levels, we will likely
face a further loss, perhaps in an amount that will virtually
wipe out our current carrying value,” wrote Buffett,
Berkshire’s chairman and chief executive officer. “Conversely,
a substantial increase in gas prices might allow us to recoup
some, or even all, of our writedown.”  Buffett, 81, invested in the bonds in 2007 after Energy
Future, then called TXU Corp., was bought by  KKR & Co. (KKR)  and TPG
Capital in the largest leveraged buyout. The private-equity
firms wagered that gas prices would rise, pushing up wholesale
electricity rates. Instead, prices fell amid an expansion of
drilling, forcing down what Energy Future charges in unregulated
markets for power produced from sources including coal.  The $1.87 billion of 10.25 percent bonds from Energy
Future’s Texas Competitive unit due in November 2015 have
tumbled to 29 cents on Feb. 24 from 62 cents on the dollar a
year earlier, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Subordinating Debt  Energy Future has sought to reduce its risk of default by
 pushing out debt maturities  and asking bondholders to swap their
investments at discounted prices for new securities. Berkshire
didn’t participate in an exchange in the fourth quarter of 2010,
further subordinating its investment, the company said in a
letter last year to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  While Energy Future has “significant exposure” to natural
gas prices, it has almost fully hedged that risk this year, said
Allan Koenig, a spokesman for the company, in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  “Having reworked our  capital structure  to extend our debt
maturities until 2014 and beyond, we continue to service our
investors’ holdings,” Koenig said. Berkshire has received
annual interest payments of about $102 million since its
purchase, Buffett said in his letter.  ‘By Storm’  Natural-gas drillers have been using hydraulic fracturing,
or “fracking,” and other technology to develop gas in shale
fields from Texas to  Pennsylvania . The new sources have driven
the price from a high of more than $13 per million British
thermal units in 2008 to as low as $2.23 on Jan. 23. Gas for
March delivery fell about 4.1 percent to $2.45 today on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange .  Fracking “has taken the business by storm,”  Peter Beutel ,
president of trading advisory company Cameronhanover.com in  New
Canaan ,  Connecticut , said in a phone interview. “All the
sudden, we’ve got more natural gas than we can use.”  Energy Future needs a gas price of $6.15 per million Btu
for profit margins wide enough to cover interest and operating
expenses, according to  Andy DeVries , a New York-based analyst
for CreditSights Inc. Futures prices indicate gas won’t reach
that level until 2022. Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire made the
bet by buying issues from Texas Competitive maturing in 2015 and
2016, according to the letter to the SEC.  Credit-Default Swaps  Storage levels are 42 percent more than last year and 39
percent above the five-year average, according to Hsulin Peng,
an analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co. Prices will average between
$2 and $3 per million Btu this year and won’t rise to $5 until
2015, she said in a phone interview.  Contracts protecting against Energy Future’s default for
five years climbed 1.2 percentage points to 46.5 percent upfront
as of 2 p.m. in  New York , according to data provider CMA, which
is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers
in the privately negotiated market. That’s in addition to 5
percent a year, meaning it would cost $4.65 million initially
and $500,000 annually to protect $10 million of the power
company’s debt.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. The contracts, which investors use to hedge against losses
on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, decline
as investor confidence improves and rise as it deteriorates.  Energy Future posted a net loss of $136 million in the
three months ended Dec. 31, its fourth consecutive unprofitable
period. The benchmark wholesale power price in northern  Texas ,
where Energy Future has plants, fell 2.7 percent from a year
earlier to average $30.97 a megawatt-hour during the fourth
quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Unforced Error’  Buffett often uses his annual letter to point out his
blunders, such as buying ConocoPhillips stock near the peak of
an energy boom, even as he has built book value per share by
more than 5,000-fold over 47 years.  This year, he called his
bet on Energy Future a “big mistake,” even if gas prices rise
and some of the writedown is recouped.  “However things turn out, I totally miscalculated the
gain/loss probabilities when I purchased the bonds,” Buffett
wrote. “In tennis parlance, this was a major unforced error by
your chairman.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  