-- Buffett Cherishes BofA Warrants
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-02-27T05:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/buffett-says-bofa-warrants-have-great-value-praises-moynihan-s-cleanup.html
Billionaire  Warren Buffett  said
 Brian T. Moynihan ’s efforts to fix  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  will
boost the value of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s $5 billion
investment in the lender.  “Our warrants to buy 700 million Bank of America shares
will likely be of great value before they expire,” Buffett,
chairman and chief executive officer of Omaha, Nebraska-based
Berkshire, wrote in his Feb. 25 annual  letter  to shareholders.  Moynihan, 52, announced at least 30,000 job cuts, sold $33
billion in assets and scaled back mortgage lending last year
after succeeding  Kenneth D. Lewis  as CEO of Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America in January 2010. The stock has
climbed 42 percent this year, the best performance in the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average , after posting the biggest decline in
the 30-company benchmark in 2011.  “Some huge mistakes were made by prior management,” wrote
Buffett, 81. “Brian Moynihan has made excellent progress
cleaning these up, though the completion of that process will
take a number of years. Concurrently, he is nurturing a huge and
attractive underlying business that will endure long after
today’s problems are forgotten.”  The investment gave Berkshire perpetual preferred stock
that yields $300 million a year, as well as warrants to buy 700
million shares at $7.14 each until they expire in 2021. Bank of
America closed at  $7.88 a share  in New York last week, giving
Buffett a paper profit of more than $500 million and 9 1/2 years
for those gains to grow.  Goldman Sachs  Buffett has less time to bolster profit from the 43.5
million warrants he acquired through a separate $5 billion
investment in Goldman Sachs Group Inc. during the depths of the
2008 financial crisis. The five-year warrants, which expire next
year, can be exercised for $115 a share. New York-based Goldman
Sachs closed last week at $115.87.  The investment bank last April paid $5.5 billion to redeem
Buffett’s preferred stock that had yielded $500 million a year.  “He’s very proud,”  David Kass , a professor at the
University of Maryland’s Robert H. Smith School of Business,
said of Buffett. “His notion here that the 700 million warrants
could have great value before they expire, I personally think
that’s an understatement.”  Berkshire, in addition to its investment in Bank of
America, is the  biggest shareholder  of  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  with a
stake of more than 7 percent in the San Francisco-based company.
Buffett increased his holding in Wells Fargo, the biggest U.S.
lender by market value, in the past year.  “The banking industry is back on its feet and Wells Fargo
is prospering,” Buffett wrote in his letter to shareholders.
“Its earnings are strong, its assets are solid and its capital
at record levels.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  