-- Buffett: Banks Victimized by Excesses of Ousted Homeowners
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-02-27T05:01:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/buffett-says-banks-victimized-by-evicted-homeowners-who-emerged-as-winners.html
Warren Buffett , who controls the
 biggest shareholding  of the No. 1 U.S. mortgage lender, said
banks were victimized by some homeowners who refinanced their
loans before getting evicted.  “Large numbers of people who have ‘lost’ their house
through foreclosure have actually realized a profit because they
carried out refinancings earlier that gave them cash in excess
of their cost,” Buffett, chairman and chief executive officer
of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , said Feb. 25 in his  annual letter .
“In these cases, the evicted homeowner was the winner, and the
victim was the lender.”  Foreclosures have claimed about 5 million homes since the
 property market  began its slide in 2006. That has saddled
lenders like  Bank of America Corp.  with defaults, vacated
properties and lawsuits. Berkshire, whose stake in  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC) , the largest U.S. mortgage lender, is valued at more than
$11 billion, invested $5 billion in Bank of America last year.  “It’s the mercenary side of Buffett,” said  Jeff Matthews ,
a Berkshire shareholder and author of “Secrets in Plain Sight:
Business & Investing Secrets of Warren Buffett.” “Rationally,
it’s an interesting observation. But it ignores the huge human-
cost side of the equation.”  Buffett, who publicly defended Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in
2010 against accusations it misled clients, used the letter to
renew his support for banks. The industry is facing criticism
from Democrats including President  Barack Obama , who in his
January State of the Union address said bets by lenders prompted
the 2008 credit freeze and “left innocent, hard-working
Americans holding the bag.”  ‘Enough With the Lambasting’  Buffett, an ally of Obama’s, has won praise from Democratic
lawmakers as the billionaire campaigned for higher taxes on the
wealthy. Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire owns warrants to
purchase $5 billion of stock in New York-based Goldman Sachs.  “Maybe this was kind of a message to his Democratic
buddies,” said  David Rolfe , chief investment officer of
Berkshire shareholder Wedgewood Partners Inc. “Buffett is
saying, ‘We know where the egregious acts were, so enough with
the lambasting of the banking system and all these bankers.’”  Blame for the housing bubble and subsequent slump should be
shared among lenders and borrowers, as well as the government,
bond-rating firms and the media, Buffett has said. In his
letter, read by investors around the world, Buffett praised
 Jamie Dimon , CEO of JPMorgan Chase & Co., and Bank of America’s
 Brian T. Moynihan . JPMorgan, Goldman Sachs, Wells Fargo and Bank
of America have all repaid U.S. bailout funds.  “The banking industry is back on its feet,” Buffett said.  ‘Megalomania, Insanity’  Buffett and Berkshire Vice Chairman Charles Munger, 88,
have criticized bankers for contributing to the housing bubble.
Munger, in July, blamed the real-estate boom on “megalomania,
insanity and evil in, I would say,  investment banking , mortgage
banking.” Buffett said in October 2010 that  Wall Street  helps
society through finance, while its bets may do harm, “like a
church that’s running raffles on the weekend.”  Charles Ortel, managing director of Newport Value Partners,
said lenders failed to do sufficient underwriting because they
counted on selling the mortgages to investors.  “So nobody had any skin in the game, except we the
taxpayers, as it turned out,” Ortel said. “Banks didn’t do the
required credit work.”  Wells Fargo posted  record profit  for the fourth quarter as
mortgage financing improved, the San Francisco-based company
said last month. Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America
has gained 42 percent this year in New York through Feb. 24 as
it swung to a quarterly profit.  “Wells Fargo is prospering,” Buffett said. “At Bank of
America, some huge mistakes were made by prior management. Brian
Moynihan has made excellent progress in cleaning these up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  