-- California Seeks Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac Foreclosure Halt
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-02-27T21:11:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/california-seeks-suspension-of-foreclosures-by-fannie-mae-freddie-mac.html
California Attorney General Kamala Harris urged the federal regulator overseeing  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and
Freddie Mac to halt foreclosures on loans and consider debt
forgiveness for homeowners in the most populous state.  In a letter to Edward DeMarco, acting director of the
Federal Housing Finance Agency, Harris requested a suspension of
foreclosure sales in California for the more than 60 percent of
loans in the state owned or guaranteed by  Fannie Mae  or Freddie
Mac, which together back most U.S. mortgages.  Harris wants the sales halted until “your agency has
completed a thorough, transparent analysis of whether principal
reduction is in the best interests of struggling homeowners as
well as taxpayers,” according to the Feb. 24 letter.  The letter escalates a debate over the best way to
ameliorate the U.S. housing crisis. In November, after DeMarco
resisted widespread cuts to mortgage balances on grounds they
may encourage more homeowners to default, Harris, a Democrat,
called on him to resign.  More than 500,000 Californians have lost their homes to
foreclosure since 2008, and another 500,000 homes are in the
process, or at “imminent risk,” of foreclosure so far in 2012,
Harris said in the letter. Nationwide, the market for agency
mortgage securities guaranteed by Fannie Mae,  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  or
government-owned  Ginnie Mae (BGNMX)  totals about $5.4 trillion.  $25 Billion Settlement  Stefanie Johnson, a Federal Housing Finance Agency
spokeswoman, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment on
the letter. The FHFA regulates Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.  Harris’s letter referenced the $25 billion settlement  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY)  reached Feb. 9 with 49
states and the federal government to end a probe of abusive
foreclosure practices stemming from the collapse of the housing
bubble. The banks committed $20 billion in various forms of
mortgage relief plus payments of $5 billion to state and federal
governments.  The settlement doesn’t cover loans owned or guaranteed by
Fannie Mae or  Freddie Mac  because, Harris wrote, DeMarco has
“consistently declined to authorize principal reduction
programs.”  In November, Harris said that if DeMarco is unwilling to
support principal reductions for borrowers in crisis, he should
“step aside for someone who will.”  Harris Sued  In December, Harris sued Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, saying
they were stonewalling her effort to learn if drug dealing and
prostitution occur in foreclosed homes owned by the companies,
whether taxes are being paid on those houses, and whether
military families have been illegally evicted by loan servicers.
The suit claimed that by failing to respond to questions on
those subjects, the companies were frustrating Harris’s efforts
to combat crime, blight and investigate health threats.  In the Feb. 24 letter, Harris said  California  extracted
agreements from banks for principal reductions and short sales
for borrowers worth a minimum of $12 billion. She said that
compared to foreclosures, principal reductions offer the most
help for homeowners, are the most cost effective for investors,
and, according to the FHFA’s most recent data, of all available
alternatives, would best serve taxpayer interests toward
resolving the housing crisis.  Fannie Mae, based in Washington, and Freddie Mac were
seized and placed under U.S. control in 2008 as losses on soured
loans pushed them to the brink of insolvency. The two have been
sustained by more than $150 billion in U.S. aid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  