-- California Pension Looks to Ontario Experience to Reduce Outside Managers
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-02-27T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/california-pension-looks-to-ontario-experience-to-reduce-outside-managers.html
The California State Teachers’
Retirement System, exploring changes in hiring and pay to reduce
its dependence on external managers, is looking to one of
 Canada ’s biggest public retirement funds for advice.  The second-largest U.S. public pension, which manages a
third of its $152.7 billion portfolio in-house, is consulting
the  Ontario Municipal Employees Retirement System (OMERS) , which self-
manages about 85 percent of its C$55.1 billion ($55.1 billion)
portfolio.  The California fund posted a 2.3 percent gain on
investments in 2011, reducing its ability to meet long-term
obligations to 856,000 members and their families, while the
Ontario fund  reported  a return on assets of about 3.2 percent.
Following the Ontario plan’s model, in which investment officers
are treated as employees of a corporation, might give Calstrs
more flexibility to respond to market conditions, spokesman
 Ricardo Duran  said.  “They act more like a private investment firm,” he said
in a telephone interview. “They have the ability to be more
flexible with their hiring.”  The Toronto-based  fund , known as Omers, oversees benefits
for about 420,000 retired and active government workers in
Canada’s most-populous province. Rick Miller, chairman of the
Omers Administration Corp.’s 14-member board, is scheduled to
meet with the California fund’s board March 1 in Glendale.  As of June 30, Calstrs managed 33 percent of its portfolio
internally, up from 30 percent a year earlier, according to its
annual  reports  to the state Legislature.  In-House Management  Omers ultimately plans to manage 90 percent of its
portfolio in-house, said a spokesman, John Pierce. In 2010, the
fund realized $25 in earnings for every dollar spent on its
investment staff, compared with $10 for every dollar on outside
managers, Pierce said by telephone.  “Omers is independent from government,” Pierce said.
“Our investment team has 100 percent skin in the game. They’re
not working for anyone else.”  U.S. public pensions operate under a variety of models,
said  Keith Brainard , research director at the National
Association of State Retirement Administrators. Several systems
are looking to Canadian-style or nongovernment structures, he
said by telephone.  “One underlying issue is that it’s not unusual for a
pension system to have trouble hiring and retaining good
people,” Brainard said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  