-- Brown’s Revenue Forecast Is $6.5 Billion Higher Than Budget Analyst Sees
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-02-27T21:58:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/california-s-tax-revenue-forecast-is-seen-as-much-as-6-5-billion-too-high.html
California (STOCA1)  tax collections may be
$6.5 billion less than Governor  Jerry Brown  estimated in his
spending plan for the current and following fiscal years -- even
with the benefit of about $2 billion from a Facebook Inc. stock
offering, the state’s budget analyst said.  California will probably collect about $177.5 billion in
revenue through June 2013, instead of $184 billion Brown has
estimated in his proposed budget that includes higher income and
sales levies, the state’s Legislative Analyst’s Office said
today. Brown and the analysts office differ on how much the
state will receive from  capital gains .  “We can identify no strong rationale for the
administration’s assumption that capital gains will grow very
rapidly in 2012 and later years,” the LAO said in its report
today.  The largest U.S. state by population, and the most
indebted, is confronting a $9.2 billion  deficit . Brown, a 73-
year-old Democrat, wants voters to boost sales and income taxes
that would raise about $6.9 billion annually until they expire
in four to five years. He built that amount into his spending
plan and inserted a provision that automatically triggers $4.8
billion in cuts to schools if voters reject the higher levies.  Additional Revenue  The report “underscores the need for additional revenues,
as the governor has proposed with his November ballot
initiative,” Brown’s budget spokesman, H.D. Palmer, said in a
statement. “It also highlights the fact that the pending IPO by
Facebook, while potentially significant, can’t be expected to
lessen the need to take tough steps now to balance the budget.”  Facebook, the world’s most popular social-networking site,
filed for an initial share sale this month. The  Menlo Park ,
California-based company has yet to set its  price range  for the
initial offering.  Brown’s budget assumes California taxpayers will earn $96
billion in capital gains in 2012, more than three times as much
as at the height of the recession in 2009. He also estimates
that the state will take in $8.6 billion in taxes on those
capital gains, about 9 percent of general-fund revenue.  The governor assumes that reductions in marginal tax rates
permitted by President  George W. Bush  in 2001 and 2003 will be
allowed to expire at the end of this year and that higher-income
earners would accelerate their capital gains into this year to
take advantage of the lower  tax rate .  Brown also counts a portion of capital gains expected in
2013 this year instead, assuming that investors will try to
shield income from higher Medicare taxes scheduled to take
effect next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  