-- Canadian Dollar Trades Within Half-Cent of Parity for Fourth Straight Day
-- B y   A u s t e n   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-02-27T22:27:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/canada-s-dollar-declines-by-most-in-two-weeks-as-global-risk-rally-pauses.html
Canada ’s dollar traded within half a
cent of parity with its U.S. counterpart for a fourth straight
day as crude oil, the nation’s biggest export, fell from a nine-
month high while American stocks rose.  The currency, called the loonie for the image of the
aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, erased earlier losses as equities
reversed a retreat after sales of previously owned American
homes rose more than forecast. The U.S. is Canada’s biggest
trade partner. The loonie had slid as stocks dropped, crimping
demand for riskier assets.  “The market’s estimation for the Canadian dollar is that
parity is a fair value,” said  Camilla Sutton , head of currency
strategy at Bank of  Nova Scotia  in Toronto. “We are following
broader markets as equities have come off the bottoms of the
day.”  Canada’s currency was little changed at 99.90 cents per
 U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It has traded on both sides of
parity over the past four days, reaching its weakest level of
C$1.0050 today and touching its strongest, 99.54 cents, on Feb.
23. The loonie remained above parity on Feb. 21. It gained today
versus the majority of its 16 most-traded peers tracked by
Bloomberg. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0010.  The loonie was poised for a 0.4 percent rise versus the
greenback for February, its second straight monthly advance.  Stocks, Oil  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was up 0.1 percent after
falling 0.8 percent earlier. The Canadian dollar tends to rise
and fall with stocks. It has a 120-day correlation coefficient
of 0.86 with the  S&P 500 . A reading of 1 would indicate they
move in lockstep. The MSCI World Index of equities in developed
nations was down 0.2 percent after falling 1 percent earlier.  Crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, retreated from a nine-
month high. Crude for April delivery dropped 1.6 percent to
$107.88 a barrel in New York. It touched $109.95 on Feb. 24, the
highest level since May 4 on an intraday basis.  Investors should bet the euro will weaken against the
Canadian currency, targeting a level of C$1.29, Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc said in a client note. The euro’s advance
against the loonie last week as  oil prices  surged and traders
covered wagers that the 17-nation currency would fall is
unlikely to continue, Robert Sinche, a strategist at RBS
Securities in New York, wrote in the note. The  European Central
Bank  also will conduct a long-term refinancing operation this
week, expanding its balance sheet, he noted.  The euro weakened against the Canadian dollar today,
breaking a seven-day winning streak. It traded at C$1.3384, down
0.4 percent.  Rebuff to Europe  The loonie fell earlier against most major peers after
Group of 20 nations officials meeting in Mexico City heeded U.S.
calls to defer a German bid to raise fresh money for the
 International Monetary Fund  to help defuse  Europe ’s debt crisis.
Euro-area efforts to bolster a financial firewall against the
crisis are “essential” before consideration of such a move,
according to a G-20 statement after meeting this weekend.  The ECB will offer a second round of unlimited three-year
funds on Feb. 29 to boost liquidity and avert a credit crunch.
Banks will seek 470 billion euros ($630 billion), approaching
the 489 billion euro take-up by 500 financial firms at the first
long-term refinancing operation on Dec. 21, according to a
Bloomberg survey.  Canadian  government bonds  rose for a fourth straight day,
pushing benchmark 10-year note yields down two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 2.01 percent. They touched 1.97
percent, the least since Feb. 7.  Two-Year Auction  The yield on the  two-year note  slipped one basis point to
1.06 percent. The government is scheduled to auction C$3.5
billion ($3.5 billion) of two-year debt on Feb. 29.  The loonie erased losses after the National Association of
Realtors’ index of pending home resales in the U.S. climbed 2
percent in January from a month earlier, indicating the industry
that sparked the last recession is improving. The median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey of economists was for a 1 percent
advance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Austen Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  