-- Canada’s Flaherty Says G-20 Meeting Provides ‘Solace’ as He Sets Budget
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2012-02-27T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/canada-s-flaherty-says-g-20-meeting-provides-budget-solace-.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said discussion at a Group of 20 meeting in Mexico gave
him “solace” in Europe’s ability to resolve its debt crisis as
he prepares to complete his next budget plan.  Flaherty, speaking to reporters after the two-day meeting
over the weekend, said he is encouraged by recent steps in
Europe to resolve its debt crisis and has become “modestly”
more confident the region will set up a fund to keep  Greece ’s
debt crisis from spreading to other nations. His 2012 budget
hasn’t been completed, he said.  “Some things have not been decided,” Flaherty said when
asked about his fiscal plan, without elaborating. “We’ve been
quite worried about the situation in  Europe . I think this
weekend has provided some degree of solace on that subject and
the actions that have been taken recently.”  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has signaled she is open to review
the matter of shoring up the region’s rescue funds at this
week’s EU summit in Brussels. Finance ministers and central
bankers from G-20 nations agreed over the weekend that a
European review of its financial firewall against the crisis
would be “essential” before any consideration to boost funding
for the  International Monetary Fund  in April.  “I’m encouraged modestly about what they said this
weekend,” Flaherty said in Mexico City. “I’m a little bit more
confident.”  Flaherty, who has yet to provide a date for the release of
the plan for the fiscal year that begins April 1, said the
budget will include some detail of how the government plans to
reduce operating expenses by C$4 billion ($4 billion) annually,
as part of efforts to balance the budget by 2015.  The Canadian Broadcasting Corp. reported Feb. 24 that
Flaherty won’t include details of his plans to cut spending in
the fiscal plan, without saying where it obtained the
information.  “We’re not going to have a blank page. We will provide
sufficient information so that people can understand what the
government is doing and why,” Flaherty said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in  Mexico  City at  targitis@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 