-- Cantona in Kooples Not Gucci as Affordable Luxury Gains in Europe: Retail
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2012-02-27T23:01:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/cantona-in-kooples-not-gucci-as-affordable-luxury-gains-in-europe-retail.html
When times are tough, retailers
focusing on mid-priced clothing are often the hardest hit. For
some European apparel and accessories makers, that once-shunned
market is proving to be the most resilient.  Companies such as Paris-based  The Kooples , whose products
are priced between $100 and $1,000, expect sales to rise as much
as 50 percent this year even as a worsening economy weighs on
retail demand in Europe. That’s about five times faster than
both mass market retailers such as  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB)  and
luxury brands including  Gucci (PP)  and  Louis Vuitton , which are
getting more expensive.  “There’s a big thirst for variety yet variety is mostly
offered at very high price points,” said Andrea Ciccoli,
founder and managing partner of Milan-based investor Officina.
Between mass and luxury, “if you’re better than average, you’re
taking market share and there’s a lot of share to be taken.”  Fall-winter sales of brands including  A.P.C. , The Kooples
and Sandro “exploded” at  Printemps  in Paris, said Tancrede de
Lalun, the department store operator’s general merchandise
manager. These and other so-called affordable luxury labels are
winning clients because they strike the right balance between
price, quality and “wow factor,” he said.  To keep the momentum going and gear up for an ambitious
store expansion, Kooples has hired  New York  Cosmos director,
actor and former Manchester United soccer star Eric Cantona and
his wife, actress Rachida Brakni, to appear in advertising for a
new sportswear line.  ‘Subdued’ Luxury Demand  The clouds hanging over the European economy are also
helping. European shoppers who once bought apparel and
accessories from companies like  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY)  are reining
in spending as the threat of recession looms in the region.
Local demand in Europe for high-end goods will be “subdued” in
2012, according to  Thomas Chauvet , an analyst at Citigroup Inc.
Yet, consumers still want original products and these aren’t
always available at mass-market price points, said Ciccoli.  “The crisis changed things a bit,” said The Kooples Chief
Executive Officer Alexandre Elicha, one of three brothers who
founded the men’s and women’s label in 2008. “People really
want to think about what they’re going to buy.”  Sales at the maker of 95-euro ($127) Gorilla-print tank
tops and 435-euro tuxedo jackets should climb to 150 million
euros in the year ending Aug. 31 from 100 million euros, Elicha
said. Hennes & Mauritz may report a 2 percent rise in comparable
sales and a 10 percent reported gain this year, estimates Bank
of America Merrill Lynch analyst Richard Chamberlain. Luxury
goods sales may increase 10 percent in 2012, according to CA
Cheuvreux’s Thomas Mesmin.  ‘Room to Grow’  Investors are taking note. In 2011, LBO  France  bought a 20
percent stake in The Kooples, which will help the company open
as many as 140 outlets this year, including in New York, said
Elicha. Half the openings will be under the recently introduced
The Kooples Sport banner, he said. The company currently
operates some 200 outlets in France, the U.K. and  Spain .  L Capital , a private equity fund backed by Groupe Arnault
and  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , in 2010 bought a stake
in Groupe SMCP, which operates Paris-based women’s fashion
labels Sandro, Maje and Claudie Pierlot. L Capital’s other
ready-to-wear investments include stakes in denim-makers Dondup
in  Italy  and Pepe Jeans in Spain.  The affordable luxury segment is attracting investment
because “there’s a lot of room to grow” in developed and
emerging markets, said Ciccoli, who expects more acquisitions as
brands need capital to fund store expansions.  Looking the Same  Too many mass retailers have sought to differentiate their
offers in terms of price and speed to market, which has led to
“copycatting,” said Ryan Ross, chief creative officer at
London-based consultant  Stylus . “Things do really start to look
the same,” he said. “It started a number of years ago and in
the current economy it’s just got worse.”  H&M,  Europe ’s second-largest clothing retailer, reported in
January a fifth consecutive drop in quarterly profit as the cost
of making garments rose and the company stepped up discounting.
Euro area retail sales will decline in the first nine months of
2012 as macroeconomic conditions deteriorate in southern Europe,
Moody’s predicted Feb. 21.  The luxury market is consolidating into fewer larger groups
with strong retail networks and advertising clout, making it
harder for small independent companies to grow, said Ciccoli.
That’s leaving a lot of space in the middle, which, though
crowded, is much less competitive, he said.  Taking Risks  To create buzz around its latest fashions, in March the
Kooples will introduce a collection co-designed by British
singer Pete Doherty. The Kooples’ sportswear line starring
Cantona hit shelves this month.  “You need to take risks to create something new so that
people see you,” said Elicha, whose parents founded French
clothier Comptoir des Cotonniers that  Japan ’s Fast Retailing Co.
acquired in 2006. “If you don’t take risks, you don’t do
something different and you stay like the other ones. You stay
small.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  