-- Carbon Market May Be Too Focused on Short-Term, Delbeke Says
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-02-27T14:57:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/carbon-market-may-be-too-focused-on-short-term-delbeke-says.html
Investors in the European Union
emissions trading system may be overconcentrating on the short-
term perspective, said  Jos Delbeke , director general for climate
at the European Commission. He made the comments at a conference
organized by Eurelectric in Brussels today:  On EU carbon prices:  “CO2 price is low today. The role of recession is very
important. Also, what we see today on the markets is that they
are very concentrated on short term.”  On short-term focus in the market:  “Perhaps there’s overconcentration on the next 3-6-12-15
months. The question for policy makers is what’s beyond those
months. That’s why we’re monitoring the situation and we’re not
following in line immediately with those who say we intervene in
the market. We’re very much cautious about the fact how we will
see the impact of many different dilemmas: there’s the
recession, we see a massive redesign of the industrial sector
worldwide. Once we’re going out of the recession, what is going
to stay in terms of emission patterns?”  On the set aside of permits:  “So setting aside, the buzz word that is currently most
discussed, has many different connotations and before we go to
any interference with the market we’d like to see in black and
white what are the different elements that constitute market
prices as we have them today. Having said that, we set ourselves
a cap and the cap is going to deliver. So in terms of climate
change delivery, it’s there.”  “We’re monitoring very closely the situation and the
commission in its wisdom is going to come up with whatever needs
to be brought up to the attention of policy makers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net 
NI ENV
NI ENVMARKET
NI CLIMATE
NI UTI
NI EU
NI RULES
NI VOICE
NI PWRMARKET
NI COALMARKET
NI GASMARKET
NI NRGMARKET
NI CMDMARKET 