-- CBS, Proview, Sony Vita, Premier League, Fairey: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-02-27T12:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/cbs-proview-sony-vita-premier-league-fairey-intellectual-property.html
CBS Corp. (CBS)  persuaded a federal judge
to toss out a trademark-infringement case involving a costume a
character wore on “ The Bold and the Beautiful ” soap opera.  The case was filed in February 2011 in federal court in
Manhattan by Robert John Burck’s  Naked Cowboy Enterprises . Burck
is known for playing his guitar in  New York ’s Times Square while
clad only in underwear, a cowboy hat and cowboy boots.  He claimed that his trademarks were infringed initially
when a character appeared on the show singing and playing a
guitar while wearing only a cowboy hat, boots and underwear. He
also objected to CBS’s posting a clip from the show on Google
Inc.’s YouTube video-sharing site in which “The Bold and the
Beautiful Naked Cowboy” was used as an identifier.  U.S. District Judge Barbara S. Jones wasn’t impressed with
Burck’s claims. She said that “even an unsophisticated viewer”
wouldn’t confuse the source of the soap opera with Burck’s
street performances or the Naked Cowboy souvenirs he sells.  She also noted that while Burck has appeared numerous times
on television, “none of his television appearances suggests a
desire to transition into creating and producing a daytime soap
opera.”  Burck’s “Naked Cowboy” costume is distinctive, she said,
through its inclusion of “Naked Cowboy” on the hat, guitar and
underwear, and “Tips” and “$” on his boots.  The soap opera
character’s costume contained “none of the distinctive
characteristics of the Naked Cowboy costume,” and therefore
didn’t infringe, she said.  CBS was represented by  Robert Penchina  of Washington-based
 Levine Sullivan Koch & Schulz LLP (932517L) . Naked Cowboy’s counsel was
 Joey Jackson  of  Koehler & Isaacs LLP  of New York. The case is
Naked Cowboy v. CBS, 1:11-cv-00943-BSJ-RLE, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Proview Sues Apple in U.S. Court Over 2009 IPAD Trademark Deal  Proview International Holdings Ltd. (334) , seeking to block
shipments of Apple Inc.’s iPad tablet computer in and out of
China, separately asked a court in  California  to stop the U.S.
company from using IPAD trademarks.  A December 2009 agreement in which a Proview unit agreed to
sell IPAD trademarks to Apple’s IP Application Development Ltd.
should be canceled, Proview said in a Feb. 17 filing to the
California Superior Court in  Santa Clara . IP Application made
“false” statements to Proview in correspondence before the
agreement, the filing said.  Apple acquired Proview’s worldwide rights to the iPad
trademark in 10 countries, including China, the Cupertino,
California-based company said Feb. 14. Proview is refusing to
honor an agreement with Apple in  China , Apple said. Carolyn Wu,
a Beijing-based spokeswoman at Apple, declined to comment on
Proview’s U.S. lawsuit beyond the statement last week.  Graham Robinson, an agent for IP Application, used the name
Jonathan Hargreaves in correspondence with Proview before the
Dec. 23, 2009 agreement to acquire all of Proview’s IPAD-related
trademarks for 35,000 pounds ($55,267), the court filing said.  “This statement was false and untrue,” according to the
filing. Proview is seeking unspecified damages from Apple,
according to the document.  Proview applied to China’s Customs Bureau to block exports
as well as imports of the iPad tablet computer, Roger Xie, a
lawyer for Proview, said last week.  On Feb. 23, a court in  Shanghai ’s Pudong district rejected
Proview’s application for an injunction against sales of the
iPad tablet in the city, Xie said on that day.  The iPad tablet was introduced by Apple in 2010 and is now
the second-biggest revenue generator for the company, the
world’s biggest by market capitalization.  Proview shares have been suspended from trading in  Hong
Kong  since Aug. 2, 2010, and reported a HK$2.91 billion ($375
million) loss in 2009. The company last published its results in
March 2010.  The case is Proview Electronics Co. v.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and IP
Application Development, 12-cv-219219, California Superior
Court, Santa Clara County.  For more trademark news, click here  Patents  Sony Sued in Russia, PlayStation Vita Accused of Infringement  Sony Corp. (6758)  was sued for patent infringement in a Moscow
court by two Russian inventors,  Russia ’s state  news agency 
 reported .  The suit is related to intellectual property covering a
rear touchpad on Sony’s  PlayStation Vita  game console, according
to the news agency.  The inventors asked for a court order halting sales, and
for the destruction of all allegedly infringing products, the
news agency reported.  The case will be reviewed by the court March 21, according
to the agency.  Yum! Brands’ Taco Bell Accused of Infringing Design Patent  Yum! Brands Inc.’s Taco Bell unit was sued for patent
infringement by a  Florida  inventor.  According to the complaint filed Feb. 23 in federal court
in Tampa, Florida, the Mexican food unit is accused of
infringing patent D643,474. This patent, issued in August 2011,
covers the design of a coin-drop game.  According to the patent illustrations, the device is a
clear plastic cylinder that appears to contain a central stalk
from which clear plastic vanes protrude.  The inventor claims Taco Bell is using an infringing
device, and the public is likely to confuse it with similar
product the inventor makes that is covered by his patent.  He asked the court to bar Taco Bell’s use of the device and
for an award of money damages “no less than a reasonable
royalty.” Claiming the infringement is deliberate, he asked
that the monetary award be increased.  Taco Bell spokesman Rob Poetsch said in an e-mail that the
company hasn’t yet been served with the complaint, so it can’t
respond to the allegations.  The inventor, Wayne Spencer of Hillsborough, Florida, is
represented by Edward P. Dutkiewicz of Dade City, Florida.  The case is Wayne Spencer v. Taco Bell Corp., 8:12-cv-
00387-SDM-TMB, U.S. District Court, Middle District of Florida
(Tampa).  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  Pub Manager Wins Battle Over English Premier League Broadcasts  A U.K. court overturned the conviction of a pub manager
from Portsmouth who used a Greek decoder card to show English
Premier League soccer matches.  The ruling by a High Court judge in  London  in Karen
Murphy’s favor follows a similar decision by a European Union
court last year. The court ruling still gives the League the
right to prevent the unauthorized use of its copyrights by bars
and clubs, the League said in an e-mailed statement Feb 24.  The Premier League, home to some of  Europe ’s most
successful clubs including Manchester United and Liverpool,
started a three-year, 1.8 billion-pound ($2.8 billion) U.K.
television contract in August 2010, and receives a further 1.4
billion pounds from the sale of international broadcast rights.  Murphy spent years fighting attempts to stop her from
showing live soccer at her Red, White and Blue Pub without a
subscription to  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) ’s Sky Sports.
She spent 800 pounds a year on a Greek decoder card to show
games rather than 700 pounds a month for a Sky package.  The EU Court of Justice in Luxembourg ruled last year that
territorial licenses are “contrary” to competition law “if
the license agreements prohibit the supply of decoder cards to
television viewers who wish to watch the broadcasts.” While the
court said anyone can watch such broadcasts, pubs can’t show the
feeds via foreign decoder cards without the permission of the
copyright owner, such as the broadcasters and the league.  “Unauthorized use gives rise to both civil and criminal
penalties,” the League said in the statement. “Should Mrs.
Murphy, or any other publican, use European Economic Area
foreign satellite systems to show Premier League football on
their premises without our authority and outside the scope of
our authorization, they make themselves liable for us to take
action against them in both the civil and criminal courts.”  Fairey Pleads Guilty to Criminal Charges Involving Obama Image  Shepard Fairey , the artist who created  an iconic 2008
election poster of Barack Obama  based on an  Associated Press 
photo, pleaded guilty to criminal counts of destroying documents
and manufacturing evidence.  Fairey, 42, of  Los Angeles , entered his plea Feb. 24 before
Magistrate Judge Frank Maas in federal court in  Manhattan , U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara said in an e-mailed statement. Fairey
faces as long as six months in prison.  The criminal plea stems from a civil copyright case Fairey
and AP settled last year, Geoffrey Stewart, Fairey’s lawyer in
that case, said in an interview. The plea doesn’t jeopardize the
settlement, Stewart said.  Fairey “went to extreme lengths to obtain an unfair and
illegal advantage in his civil litigation, creating fake
documents and destroying others in an effort to subvert the
civil discovery process,” Bharara said in the statement.  Dan Gitner, Fairey’s lawyer in the criminal case, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment on the plea.  In support of Obama’s 2008 presidential campaign, Fairey
made posters using a stylized likeness of the candidate with the
words “Hope” and “Progress” below the images, relying on a
photograph copyrighted by AP, according to the statement.  Fairey sued AP in 2009, seeking a ruling that his poster
didn’t infringe the copyright because his use of the photograph
was protected by “fair use.” The news organization
countersued.  In his complaint, Fairey claimed he used as a visual
reference an AP photograph of then-Senator Obama and actor
George Clooney taken at an April 2006 National Press Club event,
according to Bharara. In fact, Fairey used another image from
the same event -- a tightly cropped image of Obama gazing up,
which was also an AP photograph, Bharara said.  To cover up his false complaint, Fairey created multiple
false and fraudulent documents attempting to show that he had
used the photograph of Obama and Clooney, and tried to delete
electronically stored documents that demonstrated that he had
used the tightly cropped image, Bharara said.  Maas is scheduled to sentence Fairey July 16.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Fairey, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The civil case is
Fairey v. Associated Press, 09-cv-01123, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 