-- Speculation Limits Judge Says He’s ‘Skeptical’ of CFTC Rule
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-02-27T17:30:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/cftc-speculation-rule-limits-are-called-skeptical-by-u-s-judge.html
U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission arguments in support of the agency’s limits on
speculation are being questioned by the judge presiding over a
challenge to the rule by two Wall Street groups.  “I’m kind of skeptical about their position of Congress
mandating position limits,” U.S. District Judge Robert Wilkins
said during a hearing in  Washington  today.  The  International Swaps and Derivatives Association Inc. 
and the  Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association 
urged Wilkins to put the rule on hold while he considers their
legal challenge. They argued financial firms including Barclays
Plc and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  are losing millions of dollars
preparing for a regulation that is likely to be found to
overturned.  The groups argue that the CFTC never studied whether the
regulation was “necessary and appropriate” or quantified the
costs tied to implementing the rule.  “This is not a country where we look at tens of millions
of dollars in direct costs and the entire restructuring of an
industry and say that’s not irreparable harm,” Eugene Scalia, a
lawyer for the groups, told the judge.  The groups, in one of the financial industry’s highest-
profile efforts to weaken 2010’s Dodd-Frank law, filed lawsuits
in two federal courts in Washington in December challenging the
rule setting caps on the number of contracts a trader can have.  ‘Miniscule’ Harm  Jonathan Marcus, a lawyer for the CFTC, said the harm some
of the groups’ members claim they’ve incurred seeking to comply
are “miniscule” when compared to the companies’ annual revenue
and income.  Wilkins said he will take the matter “under advisement”
and issue a ruling “quickly.”  The rule is among the most controversial provisions of
Dodd-Frank, and spurred more than 13,000 public comments to the
CFTC from supporters including  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and
opponents such as Barclays. The agency voted 3-2 at an Oct. 18
meeting to approve the final regulation, with Jill E. Sommers
and  Scott O’Malia , both Republicans, voting in opposition.  The case is International Swaps and Derivatives Association
v. U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, 11-02146, U.S.
District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 