-- China Lures U.S. Pilots Tired of 14-Year Wait for Airline Captain’s Seat
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g   a n d   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u
-- 2012-02-27T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/china-lures-u-s-pilots-tired-of-14-year-wait-for-captain-s-seat.html
Kent John Krizman has spent 13 years
as a co-pilot at American Airlines. For a chance to move across
the cockpit, he’s ready to take a job in  China .  “I should be flying as a captain,” said the 52-year-old
San Francisco resident, who has 20,000 hours’ experience in jet
planes. Promotion won’t happen for at least five more years at
American, while in China it could occur straightaway, he said.
He and his wife “are all set to go,” he said.  Krizman was one of about 550 pilots who attended a China
job fair in Miami last week, as first officers find fewer
chances for promotion in the U.S. because of slower airline
growth and captains retiring later. There are jobs available in
China, where a surging economy and a fleet expected to grow 11
percent a year through 2015, according to government forecasts,
is creating a need for experienced crewmembers.  “Everyone is facing a pilot shortage,” said Shen Wei,
head of pilot recruitment at Shanghai-based budget carrier
 Spring Airlines (TPRINZ) . “Foreign pilots are the quickest option.”  To help lure overseas crew members, Spring Air pays foreign
pilots 30 percent more than domestic staff, Shen said, without
elaboration.  Air China Ltd. (753) , the nation’s largest international carrier,
was offering $198,000 a year net plus bonuses for Airbus SAS
A330 pilots, according to an  advertisement  on the website of
Wasinc International, the recruitment company that helped run
the job fair. During the two-day Miami event, which featured
about a dozen Chinese airlines, about 70 pilots got provisional
job offers, said Scott Snow, a spokesman.  Doubled Pay  Roger Grant, an American Airlines co-pilot, said in Miami
that he may be able to about double his salary by moving to
China and becoming a captain. He also said a move may offer
better long-term prospects.  “I’ve been worried about the direction that the pilot
career has been taking,” said the 45-year-old, who lives in
 Boynton Beach ,  Florida , with his wife and 7-year-old daughter.
Workers across the industry are “getting punished” for
mistakes made by major airlines, he said.  It’s easier for first officers to become captains in China
than the U.S. because of demand rather than lower requirements,
said Li Yanhua, an associate professor at Tianjin-based Civil
Aviation University of China. Air-traffic controllers in China
are already required to speak English, in line with global
standards.  China Demand  Nationwide, the number of pilots in China needs to rise to
40,000 from 24,000 in the five years ending 2015, according to a
 statement  posted on the website of the Civil Aviation
Administration of China. There are about 1,700 foreign pilots
working in the country, according to Spring Air’s Shen. Calls to
the CAAC went unanswered.  China Southern Airlines Co. (1055) , the nation’s biggest carrier,
is looking to hire 725 pilots this year, including 100 from
overseas, it said by e-mail. It employs 4,400 pilots. Air China
intends to recruit 600 pilots this year, including as many
foreigners as possible, it said. The Beijing-based airline has
46 foreign pilots, or less than 2 percent of its roster.  In the U.S., first officers are finding it more difficult
to get promotions as an increase in the mandatory  retirement age 
for captains to 65 from 60 creates a logjam at the top of chain,
said Kit Darby, who runs a pilot-hiring and compensation
consulting firm in Peachtree City,  Georgia .  Pilots who have been promoted at major U.S. carriers are
unlikely to leave as even junior captains earn $12,700 per month
on average, plus benefits such as pensions that can boost the
package by 40 percent, he said. Moving to China may appeal to
the 4 percent of the country’s 90,000 pilots that are on
furloughs, he said.  “To the furloughed or unemployed pilot an overseas job
looks pretty good,” he said.  Regional Carriers  Pilots at U.S. regional carriers, which fly smaller planes
on short-haul routes, have also been caught by the retirement
slowdown as they lose opportunities to move to better-paid
positions flying larger models at a major airline.  Tony Giraldo, 51, for instance, said he has spent 15 years
flying “numerous hours on the same equipment with no chance for
an upgrade” at American Eagle, which ferries passengers from
smaller cities to  American Airlines ’ airport hubs. He was
considering a move to China as it offers “bigger aircraft and
new possibilities,” he said.  Some American Airlines pilots recently were promoted to
captain, 14 years after being hired, the carrier said. The wait
for advancement was five years in the growth period of the 1980s
and as long as two decades a few years ago, said Sam Mayer,
spokesman for the Allied Pilots Association union.  AMR Bankruptcy  The November bankruptcy filing by AMR Corp., the Fort
Worth, Texas-based parent of American Airlines and American
Eagle, also spurred Giraldo to consider opportunities elsewhere,
he said. Krizman, the American co-pilot, similarly said that
concerns about Chapter 11 had “refocused my efforts” to look
overseas.  American, which has a  hub  in Miami, wants to cut 400 pilot
jobs as part of bankruptcy restructuring, as well as terminating
pensions and outsourcing more flying to other carriers.  The carrier’s pilots “will remain highly compensated”
even after the proposed changes, said Bruce Hicks, a company
spokesman. American crew members “have long been among the best
compensated in the industry,” he said.  China is stepping up pilot training to help meet demand.
The  Civil Aviation Flight University of China , the country’s
biggest training provider, plans to accept 2,400 cadets this
year, 33 percent more than last year, it said in e-mailed reply
to questions.  Using domestic pilots is simpler for Chinese airlines as
there are some restrictions on foreigners flying domestic
services, largely because the military controls much of the
airspace, said Spring Air’s Shen.  “The boom in foreign pilots coming to China may only last
a few years,” he said. “When we have more choice in the
future, I will prefer our own pilots.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 Jwang513@bloomberg.net ;
Simone Baribeau in Miami at  simonebaribeau@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  