-- China-Taiwan Tensions Could Loom Over U.S. ‘Pivot’ to Asia: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-02-27T00:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/china-taiwan-tensions-could-loom-over-u-s-pivot-to-asia-view.html
Should the U.S. be willing to
sacrifice  Los Angeles  for Taipei? It’s horrendous to
contemplate, but it’s the kind of question that underlies a
simmering debate over U.S. policy toward Taiwan.  As China’s economic and military power grows, and Taiwan’s
long-term future remains unclear, that debate deserves a wider
airing. The tension, and the stakes, will only increase as the
Obama administration undertakes its much-trumpeted “pivot” to
Asia.  Taiwan didn’t surface as a big issue in Chinese Vice
President  Xi Jinping ’s recent visit to  Washington . The re-
election of Taiwan’s President Ma Ying-jeou, who has downplayed
talk of independence and promoted ties with China, has also
reduced cross-strait tensions. And the recent U.S. decision to
upgrade Taiwan’s F-16s fighter planes rather than sell it newer
ones provoked relatively mild heartburn in Beijing.  Nonetheless, the status quo that has prevailed since the
U.S. recognition of  China  in 1979 -- a delicate balance that has
supported not just China’s growth, but also the development of a
vibrant, democratic Taiwan -- is under threat. China’s military
edge over Taiwan is  growing , as is the influence of its military
on policy and the volatility of Chinese nationalist sentiment.
Future U.S. sales to Taiwan of advanced weapons necessary to
counter China’s advantage may trigger a harsher reaction. (Under
the  Taiwan Relations Act  that Congress passed in 1979, the U.S.
is required to “provide Taiwan with arms of a defensive
character.”) Meanwhile, as the economic and strategic
importance of  U.S.-China relations  grows, so does the U.S.
temptation to advance those ties at Taiwan’s expense.  Of course, in the best diplomatic tradition, the cross-
strait status quo has always rested to some degree on evasions
and half-truths. China and Taiwan agree that there is only “one
China” -- just not which China that is. The U.S. maintains only
unofficial relations with Taiwan, but that includes military
exchanges and training, occasional Cabinet-level visitors and
embassy surrogates. Taiwan is a plucky front-line state that
seeks U.S. military help, yet it spends only  2.1 percent  of its
own gross domestic product on defense. The U.S., President
 George W. Bush  said, will “do whatever it takes” to defend
Taiwan -- a few months before he changed his tune, after the
Sept. 11 attacks, to secure Chinese cooperation in the war on
terrorism.  Recently, several former senior U.S. policy makers have
recommended that the U.S. re-examine its support for Taiwan, in
particular its arms sales. One of them, former National Security
Adviser Zbigniew Brzezinski, gingerly  wrote  in  Foreign Affairs 
that “it is doubtful that Taiwan can indefinitely avoid a more
formal connection with China.” Such arguments provoked a
counter-chorus arguing that their proponents were guilty of
seeking to abandon Taiwan.  The weight of history and the flow of current events
support Brzezinski’s statement. Over the last decade, and
especially since Ma took office, economic and social ties across
the strait have  deepened . The two sides have signed more than a
dozen agreements, including an Economic Cooperation Framework
Agreement in 2010 that will further lower barriers to trade and
investment. Already, 70,000 Taiwanese companies have invested
more than $100 billion in the mainland, which is  Taiwan ’s
largest trading partner. More than 1.4 million mainland tourists
visited Taiwan in 2010, and direct flights now top 500 a week.  The challenge is ensuring that the growth of such numbers
trumps the growth of others, like the number of Chinese missiles
(now more than 1,200) aimed at Taiwan. On the U.S. side, the
answer is not legislation now before Congress that  stipulates 
flying the U.S. flag outside the office of the “American
Institute” in Taipei and Senate confirmation of its director.
Nor does the solution lie in lawmakers mandating the sales of
specific aircraft types -- impulses driven partly by commercial
considerations of the members of Congress with military
contractors in their districts and states. Taiwan may not be
willing to meet its own defense spending targets, but it knows
that its status as the fourth-largest purchaser of U.S. arms can
buy it congressional clout.  In addition to sticking by the provisions of the Taiwan
Relations Act, the U.S. can advance its principles by making
headway on some mutually beneficial measures. It should speed
the review of Taiwan’s entry into the Visa Waiver Program, which
will enable Taiwanese business travelers and tourists to enter
the U.S. without a visa. Proposed in 2010, an extradition treaty
that would help both countries fight crime needs to move out of
limbo. It would also be beneficial to jumpstart talks on a Trade
and Investment Framework Agreement, which has been held up by
Taiwan’s refusal to lift a ban on U.S. beef imports as unsafe.
We urge Taiwan’s legislature to follow the science and stop
using the issue as a partisan cudgel.  The most important step the U.S. could take, however, would
be to reconsider its hands-off attitude toward resolving cross-
strait tensions. This no-mediation principle is enshrined in the
catechism of U.S. China policy -- the so-called “Six
Assurances” that President  Ronald Reagan  offered to Taipei in
1982. But it essentially leaves the U.S. hostage to Chinese and
Taiwanese behavior, whether a dangerous Chinese buildup of
forces, a future move toward independence by Taiwan, or even a
blithe assumption on the part of the Taiwanese that the status
quo can continue indefinitely. In the past, the U.S. has
declared its support for  confidence-building measures  between
the militaries of Taiwan and China. Why stop there? The U.S.
could suggest a framework for the militaries to pursue -- things
like operational military hotlines and maritime safety
protocols, perhaps facilitated by  Singapore , which has used such
measures to ease tensions with its neighbors.  If the U.S. truly intends to be back in  Asia , it should do
more to encourage China and Taiwan to defuse one of the Cold
War’s last remaining flashpoints. For all parties in the region,
the best resolution would be a Northeast Asia where the safety,
prosperity and freedom of Taiwan’s people do not have to be
guaranteed by our own.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 