-- China Copper Demand to Rebound on Clean Energy Use, Nexans Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-27T08:57:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/china-copper-demand-to-rebound-on-clean-energy-use-nexans-says.html
Copper consumption growth in China
may rebound in the next few years on accelerating demand from
the renewable energy sector and special industries, according to
 Nexans SA (NEX) , the second-largest cable and wire maker.  Consumption of the metal is likely to climb 6 percent to 7
percent per year in 2013-2014, compared with 4.7 percent this
year and double-digit growth in the past decade, Satrijo Tanudjojo, president of Nexans (China) Wires & Cables Co., said
in an interview in  Shanghai  on Feb. 23.  China is the world’s largest copper user and demand from
its power sector accounts for almost half of consumption. The
economy  expanded  8.9 percent in the fourth quarter, the slowest
since the second quarter of 2009 as  Europe ’s debt crisis curbed
export demand and the  property market  weakened. The People’s
Bank of China has reduced  reserve requirements  for banks twice
in three months to sustain growth.  “I’m sure the government will always maintain the window
where the inflation is manageable and the growth at 7 percent or
8 percent,” Tanudjojo said. “Cable growth will remain at the
same level of GDP growth, around 6 percent to 7 percent and
probably more because China also exports the cables.”  Copper in London has climbed 11 percent this year, after
declining 21 percent last year, on optimism that Chinese buying
will pick up after imports fell two years in a row. The nation
 imported  a record 406,937 metric tons of the metal in December.  “The base of these sectors is small, so we’ll probably see
the growth rate jump,” forming additional demand apart from
traditional cables and wires, said Qiao Bo, an analyst at
Beijing Antaike Information Development Co.  Clean Energy  “The future of power cable will be submarine,” Tanudjojo
said. “ China  has put a lot of efforts into renewable energy,
and one of the areas which is considered to have the maximum
growth potential is offshore wind farm,” which requires
submarine cables to transport energy inland.  China plans to boost the share of non-fossil fuels in its
primary energy consumption to 15 percent by 2020 to rely less on
more polluting sources such as coal. The 2020 renewable energy
capacity targets include 100 gigawatts of wind power, the
National Energy Administration said in July 2010.  Submarine cable demand will accelerate 12 percent to 14
percent a year and the market may expand to as much as 2 billion
euros ($2.7 billion), Tanudjojo said. This compares with yearly
growth of 6 percent to 7 percent in the last couple of years,
which was slower than that of traditional cables, he said,
adding that the nation’s plan to build a network of high-speed
railways requires special industry cables.  No Substitution  Three-month copper on the  London  Metal Exchange climbed to
a record $10,190 a ton in February last year and fell 35 percent
to a nine-month low of $6,635 a ton in October. The contract
fell 0.9 percent to $8,450 a ton at 4:47 p.m. Shanghai time.  “The fluctuation doesn’t affect the demand of copper in
the wires and cables production in China,” Tanudjojo said.
“The tendency in China to change copper to aluminum isn’t
obvious. I don’t think it will happen in the next few years.”  A record ratio of copper to aluminum may accelerate a
switch by manufacturers to using the cheaper metal in cables and
wires, leading to a decline of 400,000 tons a year of copper
demand through substitution, or 2 percent of global use, United
Co. Rusal said Feb. 8, citing market data it uses in forecasts.
Aluminum in London fell 0.3 percent to $2,319 a ton.  Volatile prices may keep some companies waiting for a few
months as Chinese industry users value copper’s transmission
capacity, unlike some European users, with some starting to
change copper to lower-cost aluminum, Tanudjojo said.  The China unit of Paris-based Nexans has four plants and
“is looking to different facilities where we can expand our
capacity in the special industrial cables,” according to
Tanudjojo. The company imports submarine cable products from
Japan and  Norway  to supply local customers.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jarrett Banks at 
 jbanks15@bloomberg.net  