-- China Calls Romney Opinion Piece Irresponsible, Groundless
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-27T11:45:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/china-calls-romney-opinion-piece-irresponsible-groundless-1-.html
Comments by Republican presidential
candidate  Mitt Romney  about  China  in an opinion piece were
irresponsible and groundless, Chinese  Foreign Ministry (MFAZ)  spokesman
Hong Lei said today in Beijing.  In a Feb. 16 article in the Wall Street Journal, Romney
accused China of “abusive” practices in trade, intellectual
property and currency valuation. He said he would not continue a
relationship that “rewards China’s cheating.”  “These kinds of irresponsible, groundless remarks are not
worthy of comment,” Hong said in response to a question from
Chinese state-run media. “Maintaining the healthy development
of Sino-U.S. relations is the common interest and common
responsibility of both sides.”  Romney has said during the campaign that he is prepared to
label China a currency manipulator, saying it keeps the value of
the yuan artificially low to encourage Chinese exports. The yuan
fell 0.07 percent to close at 6.3019 per dollar in  Shanghai 
today, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. The
yuan has risen by more than 8 percent against the dollar in the
last 18 months.  “Unless China changes its ways, on day one of my
presidency I will designate it a currency manipulator and take
appropriate counteraction,” Romney wrote. “A trade war with
China is the last thing I want, but I cannot tolerate our
current trade surrender.”  Clinton Criticism  President  Barack Obama , who would face Romney in this
year’s general election should Romney win the  Republican Party ’s
nomination, has also taken China to task on trade in recent
remarks. During his annual State of the Union Address last
month, Obama said he would form a trade enforcement panel that
“will be charged with investigating unfair trading practices in
countries like China.”  Hong also criticized remarks made last week by Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  on China and  Russia ’s decision to veto a
United Nations resolution that called for Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad to step down. In comments last week, Clinton
called their vetoes “despicable.”  “The comments by a certain American official we find
completely unacceptable,” Hong said in response to a question
about Clinton’s comments.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  