-- Zoellick Predicts China ‘Soft Landing’ Even as Growth Model Unsustainable
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-27T18:49:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/china-to-have-soft-landing-soon-zoellick.html
China  will probably see little
slowdown in growth this year even as its government needs to
overhaul its economy to manage expansion over the next two
decades, World Bank President  Robert Zoellick  said.  The economy will probably have a “soft landing” in the
near term, Zoellick said yesterday in Beijing, introducing
“China 2030,” a report by the lender and Chinese state
researchers. The nation needs to redefine the government’s role,
alter the structure of state enterprises and gradually allow
market-set  interest rates , according to the executive summary.  Policy makers inside and outside China are grappling with
how the engine of  growth  for the world economy will weather
 Europe ’s debt crisis in the short term and avoid a sharper
slowdown over the longer term. Some recommendations yesterday
echo previous reports; the  World Bank  in June 2010 urged more
use of  interest rates  to manage the economy.  “As China’s leaders know, the country’s current economic-
growth model is not sustainable,” Zoellick said in a speech
yesterday. He told reporters later that “in the near term, I
personally believe that China is likely to have a soft
landing.”  The World Bank said in November that China is heading for a
small slowdown of growth in excess of 8 percent in 2012 and has
fiscal scope to cushion its economy from an escalation in
Europe’s debt crisis. Gross domestic product expanded 9.2
percent last year.  ‘Hukou’ System  China needs to rely more on markets and the private sector,
alter its “hukou,” or residency-permit, system and provide
basic social protection to all its citizens, Zoellick said
yesterday. The report was co-authored by the banks and the
Development Research Center of China’s State Council.  The MSCI Asia Pacific  Index (MXAP)  of stocks fell 0.8 percent at
5:33 p.m. in  Tokyo  yesterday. The Shanghai Composite Index rose
0.3 percent to a three-month high.  Zoellick said yesterday’s report is meant to give direction
and recognizes that ideas need further debate before details can
be implemented. The full 468-page report, released later in the
day, elaborated on the recommendations and forecasts. The
government may need to shift its emphasis toward private-sector
development and “could securitize its implicit equity in state
enterprises as soon as possible,” the report said.  The report was conceived to help China avoid the so-called
middle-income trap that often stalls the productivity and income
growth of countries when their per capita incomes reach $3,000
to $6,000, Zoellick said in September.  Economic Restructuring  Also at yesterday’s event, Chinese Finance Minister  Xie Xuren  said the government will continue to deepen changes and
accelerate economic restructuring. It will also focus more on
employment, he said.  The government needs to commercialize the banking system
and deepen  capital markets , according to a summary of the report
released by the World Bank. China’s growing weight in world
trade, the size of its economy and its role as the world’s
largest creditor will make the internationalization of the yuan
“inevitable,” according to a press release issued separately.  “Support for reforms will be stronger if the plans are
based on full participation throughout all levels of society,”
the press release said. “The biggest risk is that vested
interests will try to thwart reforms.”  The report urges China to “strengthen the fiscal system”
and ensure that “local governments have adequate financing to
meet heavy and rising expenditure responsibilities,” according
to the summary. Local governments had 10.7 trillion yuan ($1.7
trillion) in debt at the end of 2010, 79 percent due to banks,
according to the country’s first audit released in June.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  