-- China Automakers May Face European Hurdles, Chamber Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-05T11:13:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/china-automakers-may-face-european-hurdles-chamber-says.html
(Corrects story published Feb. 27 to remove erroneous
comment in sixth paragraph.)  China ’s exclusion of foreign
automakers from a proposed list of fleet suppliers may prompt
other countries to make it harder for the nation’s carmakers to
expand, the European Union Chamber of Commerce in China said.  “As an industry you cannot expect to be warmly welcomed
outside of your country, if at the same time you start closing
the industry in your country,” Dirk Moens, secretary general of
the chamber, whose members include  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and  Daimler AG (DAI) ,
said today by phone from Beijing.  China issued a preliminary list on Feb. 25 of vehicles that
could be purchased by some official fleets and foreign carmakers
including Volkswagen,  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) 
were not on it. If approved, the list would give domestic
automakers an advantage in a fleet market worth about 80 billion
yuan ($12.7 billion),  China International Capital Corp (CICCZ) ., a
Beijing-based investment bank, said in a report today.  Overseas brands have accounted for about 80 percent of the
official vehicle pool in China, with Volkswagen’s Audi making up
about one-third of government and state-linked enterprise fleets,
according to Guotai Junan Securities Co.  The preliminary list is open for public consultation until
March 9, according to the Ministry of Industry and  Information
Technology .  Assessing Effect  The European Chamber will work with its members to assess
the effect of the proposal and may approach the government about
the issue, Moens said.  The suggested procurement rules come less than two months
after Premier Wen Jiabao’s government took conventional
automaking off the “encouraged” foreign direct investment list.
The move ended preferential treatment from the government for
foreign automakers that build factories in the country.  Great Wall Motor Co., China’s biggest sport-utility vehicle
maker, is investing as much as $120 million on a car assembly
plant in  Bulgaria  which opened last week, Xinhua reported Feb.
22.  A Chinese-led investment group including  Zhejiang Geely
Holding Group Co. (175)  bought Volvo from  Ford Motor Co. (F)  for $1.8
billion in August 2010, completing the biggest overseas
acquisition by a Chinese carmaker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  