-- Christie Takes to Airwaves to Pitch N.J. Tax Cuts
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-02-27T17:31:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/christie-takes-to-airwaves-to-pitch-new-jersey-budget-that-seeks-tax-cuts.html
New Jersey (STONJ1)  Governor  Chris Christie 
is urging residents to press lawmakers for approval of his 10
percent income-tax cut in a radio-advertising campaign paid for
by the Republican State Committee.  Christie, in the one-minute ad set to begin airing today,
says failure to enact his $32.1 billion budget would imperil
what he calls the “New Jersey comeback.” At one point, he
reads the telephone number for Assembly Democratic staff offices
in Trenton and asks residents to call them directly.  “I need your help,” Christie, a 49-year-old Republican
halfway through his first term, says in the ad. “Tell state
Assembly leaders to pass our budget, pass the 10 percent tax cut
and keep the New Jersey comeback going.”  Christie’s spending plan, introduced Feb. 21, counts on  tax
revenue  increasing 7.3 percent, the most since before the
recession began in December 2007. He said he is able to cut
taxes now that New Jersey’s “fiscal house is in order.”  The governor’s proposal is structurally unbalanced because
it is built on “optimistic” economic-growth projections,
 Standard & Poor’s  said in a Feb. 24 report. The budget also
depends on using $288 million of reserves and increases the
state’s reliance on one-time revenue to $1.6 billion, S&P said.  “The economic assumptions that underpin the state’s
revenue forecast appear to be optimistic based on current and
projected economic conditions at the state and national
levels,” wrote John Sugden, an S&P credit analyst.  Balanced Budget  Under  New Jersey ’s 1947 Constitution, the governor and
lawmakers must adopt a budget that balances revenue and spending
by the July 1 start of the fiscal year.  Christie “has an unbroken record of creating responsible,
balanced budgets without tax increases that have been built on
solid, conservative revenue estimates,” Treasurer Andrew
Sidamon-Eristoff said in a Feb. 24 statement, in response to
S&P’s report.  Democrats, who control both houses of the Legislature, say
Christie’s tax-cut plan would favor the wealthy and ignores New
Jersey’s property-tax burden, the highest in the nation. The
bills averaged $7,759 in 2011, up 2.4 percent from 2010,
according to the state Department of Community Affairs.  “It’s an act of desperation,” Assemblyman Vincent Prieto,
a Secaucus Democrat who is chairman of the budget committee,
said of the radio commercial. “He’s trying to drum up some
support and I don’t think that is going to be a very successful
effort.”  Schools, Taxes  Christie in the ad points to record funding levels for
public schools and universities and a 2 percent cap he placed on
property-tax growth as proof he’s taken on those issues.  “We can cut wasteful spending, cut taxes 10 percent and
fund our priorities,” he said.  The “substantial ad buy” will place the radio spot on
airwaves across New Jersey and in the Philadelphia and New York
City markets for several weeks, Douglass Mayer, a spokesman for
the state committee, said in a telephone interview. He declined
to say how much the radio blitz will cost.  Christie, who last year turned down entreaties from party
leaders and donors to enter the Republican presidential primary
race, collected record out-of-state donations for his party
ahead of the November legislative elections. The committee had
$539,005 of cash on hand as of Jan. 1, according to a report
filed with the New Jersey Election Law Enforcement Commission.  Mayer said the state committee is hoping to bolster the
governor’s message with the ads and advance his agenda with the
public.  “This is an effort to help forward that agenda and let the
people of this state know exactly how Governor Christie plans to
keep New Jersey moving in the right direction,” Mayer said in
an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  