-- CIBC Gets a Second Look as Canada’s Cheapest Bank Is Also Most Profitable
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2012-02-27T21:16:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/cibc-gets-second-look-as-canada-s-cheapest-most-profitable-bank.html
In 15 years of managing money at
Mawer Investment Management Ltd.,  Jim Hall  has avoided one name
among Canada’s five main banks:  Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce .  Now that the country’s cheapest bank stock is also expected
to be the most profitable this year, Hall said CIBC is
“absolutely” a stock he’d consider buying.  “The market is saying that CIBC’s higher risk than the
others, but are we being overly harsh?” Hall said in a
telephone interview from Calgary.  Hall, whose firm oversees C$10.5 billion ($10.5 billion) in
assets, has had good reason to ignore CIBC, Canada’s fifth-
biggest bank. The Toronto-based lender has written down billions
in the past decade for bad bets on telecommunications firms,
structured debt and failed energy trader Enron Corp.  CIBC’s share price relative to earnings was the  lowest 
among  Canada ’s six-biggest banks for the first three weeks this
month, the longest such streak since January 2008, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Two years ago, the bank was the most
expensive. CIBC will also have the highest profit growth among
the group this year, according to analysts’  estimates .  CIBC’s trailing 12 months’ profit more than  doubled  over
two years to Oct. 31, while shares gained 21 percent in that
period. CIBC  rose  27 cents to C$76.78 at 4:12 p.m. trading in
Toronto.  Investors Concerned  “Investors may be concerned about paying up for the
apparent strength in numbers without having a long enough series
of quarters to rely on,” Juliette John, who helps manage C$13.3
billion including banks at Bissett Investment Management, said
in a telephone interview from Calgary. Bissett bought CIBC
shares in November, she said.  Canadian banks begin reporting fiscal first-quarter
earnings tomorrow, starting with  Bank of Montreal. (BMO)  The six
biggest banks will collectively post a 3 percent decline in
profit excluding items, John Reucassel, an analyst with BMO
Capital Markets, said in a Feb. 14 note. This marks the first
quarter the banks will report results under the International
Financial Reporting Standards accounting rules.  CIBC is the most  profitable  of the six banks, with a return
on equity of 21 percent, according to Bloomberg data. The other
lenders range between 13 percent and 19 percent for the 12
months to October, the banks’ fiscal year end.  The bank will have the highest per-share profit  growth  this
year, according to analysts’ forecasts. CIBC’s adjusted earnings
will increase 6.8 percent for the year ending Oct. 31, compared
with 4.3 percent for an  Index (STDBNK)  of the six banks, according to
Bloomberg surveys.  Corrects Itself  “If your earnings per share are growing and you do in fact
have a very low valuation, eventually that corrects itself,”
said Darko Mihelic, an analyst with Cormark Securities in
Toronto, who rates the stock a “buy”. “To be this cheap with
such a high dividend yield -- and knowing at some point CIBC
will raise dividends again this year -- provides a lot of
support.”  CIBC’s indicated  dividend yield  is 4.69 percent, second
highest among Canada’s lenders after Bank of Montreal’s yield of
4.83 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  CIBC has been buying back preferred shares, which analysts
factor in for earnings estimates, Mihelic said. Investors may be
waiting to see more growth of assets and revenue, he said.  No Promises  “Earnings per share growth isn’t necessarily coming from
revenue growth or acquisitions, but instead it’s coming from a
clean-up of its  capital structure ,” Mihelic said. “Investors
prefer top-line growth, they prefer asset growth, and these are
not promises CIBC has made.”  Eight analysts in a Bloomberg  survey  rate CIBC a “buy”
and 11 rate it a “hold.” Among the six lenders, analysts are
more optimistic on only  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  and  Bank of Nova
Scotia. (BNS)   Hall has avoided CIBC in the past because of concerns about
management, even as he invested in Canada’s other top five
banks. His Mawer Canadian Equity Fund returned 1.9 percent last
year, compared with an 8.7 percent loss with dividends for
Canada’s benchmark  S&P/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX) .  CIBC spent the past four years refocusing on Canadian
banking, after being hit hardest by the financial crisis with
about C$11 billion in writedowns between 2007 and 2009, more
than any other bank in the country.  ‘De-Risk’  Chief Executive Officer Gerald McCaughey redoubled efforts
to “de-risk” the bank since the crisis began, selling most of
its New York-based investment bank, exiting risky businesses
such as European leveraged finance and scaling back on debt
securities that got the bank into trouble.  “CIBC has taken away a lot of the sharp knives,” said
Tony Demarin, who oversees C$340 million including CIBC shares
for BCV Asset Management in Winnipeg. “There are not a lot of
operations they have that could cause those problems anymore.
They’ve shrunk themselves down, they’ve de-risked the bank’s
operations down to what I call a domestic core.”  Other investors and analysts including  Craig Fehr  say the
shift toward Canadian  consumer lending  limits the potential for
earnings growth.  “CIBC is a very profitable bank, and some of the decisions
they’ve made over the last couple of years to get out of some of
their capital markets businesses and shrink back into Canada a
little bit more has made them very profitable,” Fehr, an
analyst with Edward Jones & Co., said in a telephone interview
from  St. Louis . “However, we think this is offset by the fact
that their growth platforms looking out over the long term are a
little bit less compelling than some of their peers.”  Path Toward Growth  Other Canadian lenders such as  Bank of Nova Scotia  and
Toronto-Dominion trade at higher multiples because they have a
fairly clear path toward growth, Bissett’s John said.  “If we start to see a couple more periods where they have
delivered decent earnings, then investors will become more
comfortable with the story and be more comfortable in terms of
awarding a higher valuation with the shares,” said John, whose
Bissett Dividend Income Fund returned 5.2 percent in 2011. “It
will require more evidence that they’re on the right track.”  Bank of Montreal, the fourth-biggest bank, will report
profit excluding items of C$1.30 a share, down from C$1.32 a
year ago, Reucassel said.  Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  and Toronto-Dominion, the country’s
two largest lenders, and  National Bank of Canada (NA) , the sixth-
biggest bank, report results March 1. Royal Bank, the largest
lender, will report profit of C$1.14 a share, a 12 percent
decline from a year ago, while Toronto-Dominion will report
profit was unchanged at C$1.71 a share, according to Reucassel.
Montreal-based National will report profit fell about 6 percent
to C$1.74 a share, the analyst said.  Scotiabank, the third-largest lender, will say profit rose
about 7 percent to C$1.16 a share when it reports March 6,
according to Reucassel, while CIBC will say profit fell about 3
percent to C$1.95 a share when it reports March 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  