-- CIMB Holds Talks for RBS Asian Assets as Profit Hits Record
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2012-02-28T03:10:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/cimb-confirms-talks-for-rbs-asian-assets-as-profit-hits-record.html
CIMB Group Holdings Bhd (CIMB) ., Malaysia’s
second-biggest bank, said fourth-quarter profit surged 30
percent to a record on increased lending as it seeks to grow its
Asia-Pacific reach.  The Kuala Lumpur-based bank is in talks to buy part of the
 Royal Bank of Scotland Plc’s  investment banking and securities
business in the region, CIMB Chief Executive Officer  Nazir Razak 
told reporters in  Kuala Lumpur  yesterday. It’s simultaneously in
negotiations to acquire a stake in Manila-based Bank of Commerce,
he said, declining to give details on both deals.  Net income  climbed  to 1.13 billion ringgit ($374 million),
or 15.2 sen per share, in the three months ended Dec. 31 from
872.6 million ringgit, or 11.8 sen per share, a year earlier,
the company said in an exchange filing. It declared a higher
dividend of 10 sen per share, compared with 8 sen previously.  “I think 2012 could surprise on the upside as most of the
downside risks are already quite visible,” Nazir said in a
separate e-mailed statement. “The investment banking deal
pipeline is good,” he told reporters.  CIMB wants to extend its regional reach after being
 Malaysia ’s top underwriter for equity and rights offerings in
the past three years. It has made  acquisitions  in  Singapore ,
 Thailand  and  Indonesia  in the last seven years and may be one of
two remaining bidders for RBS’s Asian equities, mergers and
acquisitions businesses as well as its research arm, the
Financial Times reported Feb. 7, citing people it didn’t name.  Philippine Talks  The Malaysian group is in separate talks with San Miguel
Corp. and other shareholders to buy a 60 percent stake in Bank
of Commerce, a person with knowledge of the matter said last
month. It was the 16th largest lender in the  Philippines  by
assets as of June 30 with 122 branches, according to the
county’s central bank.  “Management again reassured that both mergers and
acquisitions if successful won’t be financed through equity,”
UOB-Kay Hian Holdings Ltd. said in a report today. “Financing
will come mostly through internal funds.”  UOB upgraded the stock to “hold” and increased its price
target to 6.90 ringgit from 6.20 ringgit, still below its
unchanged  market price  of 7.14 ringgit at 11:05 a.m. in Kuala
Lumpur trading today. Hong Leong Investment Bank Bhd. boosted
its price target for CIMB to 7.78 ringgit from 7.69 ringgit,
according to a separate broking report.  CIMB joined other Malaysian lenders  Malayan Banking Bhd. (MAY) 
and  Public Bank Bhd. (PBK)  in posting increased earnings for the
quarter as a domestic economy that expanded 5.1 percent last
year helped spur demand for loans and financing.  Hong Leong Bank
Bhd. (HLBK)  yesterday reported a 31 percent jump in quarterly net
income, while  RHB Capital Bhd. (RHBC)  is expected to report today.  Net interest income, or revenue from borrowers after
deducting interest paid to depositors, increased 7 percent to
1.76 billion ringgit in the quarter, CIMB said. Allowances for
impairment losses on loans and financing grew 73 percent to 289
million ringgit, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  