-- Cindy Sherman Self-Portraits Offer Empty Entertainment: Review
-- B y   L a n c e   E s p l u n d
-- 2012-02-27T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/cindy-sherman-self-portraits-offer-empty-entertainment-review.html
Cindy Sherman  represents everything
that is wrong with the contemporary art world.  Considered a reigning matriarch of the “pictures
generation” (the  baby boomers  who grew up in an era dominated
by Pop art, Conceptualism, television and mass media), Sherman
(born 1954) is a former painter who originally turned to
photography for its relative ease, and to self-portraiture as a
form of art therapy.  Extremely influential, she is credited with having elevated
photography in the late 1970s to the level of painting -- of
high art -- but in fact she has succeeded in combining the worst
of both worlds.  Sherman, a campy surrealist mired in surfaces, appropriates
the distortions of portrait painting without comprehending their
metaphoric intent; and she reduces photography to mere
documentation of her studio stagings, stripping the medium, as
well as the genre of self-portraiture, of its mysteriousness --
its revelatory nature.  More than 170 of her theatrical photographs (almost all
self-portraits and all “Untitled”) are the subject of a 35-
year retrospective at the  Museum of Modern Art .  In these elaborately staged and ironic mise-en-scenes,
Sherman is an ageless, timeless, gender-bending chameleon with
many guises.  Yet her focus is shallow, narrow -- predominantly
stereotypes.  Biker Chick  Sherman dresses up in makeup, costumes and retro-fashions.
She incorporates props, prosthetics, sex dolls and masks. She
photographs herself as the schoolgirl, aristocrat, frustrated
housewife, film-noir heroine, biker chick, odalisque, demented
clown and soap opera diva.  Or she appropriates historical figures such as Madame de
Pompadour, or Renaissance and Baroque paintings and subjects
such as an androgynous Caravaggio “Bacchus” and a 15th-century
“Madonna and Child” -- with Sherman’s exposed fake breast
aimed directly at the camera.  At MoMA, these “History Portraits” are hung salon-style
on burgundy walls, as if at a national portrait gallery. A
performer and provocateur, Sherman knows her audience. Yet she
remains slippery, evasive. Pushing buttons, she blends the right
mix of irony, sexual titillation, humor, kitsch, nostalgia and
references from mass media and art history.  Every photograph provides clues and a payoff. In one image,
a wide-eyed Sherman holds her glistening red tongue between her
fingers, and towers over a group of tiny toy figurines, as if
riffing on the “Attack of the 50 Foot Woman.”  Suburban Every-Girl  In another, from a 1981 series in which she poses as
clothed “Centerfold” models, she is the suburban every-girl of
the era, lying alone at night, staring at the telephone.  Another photograph, from the 1992 series of “Sex
Pictures,” is a Frankensteinian marriage of Hans Bellmer’s
distorted body parts and Dr. Dolittle’s pushmi-pullyu. Here,
Sherman has fused at the waist a set of anatomically correct
nude male and female medical torsos.  Decked out on satin sheets with abundant pubic hair and
rolls of fat, the pair of stumped torsos looks real. The magic
is in the details -- the gleaming penis ring and telltale tampon
string.  And MoMA understands the power of Sherman’s spectacle. The
show begins in the sixth-floor lobby, as if outside the Big Top,
with her latest work, a giant wall mural depicting 18-foot-tall
images of Sherman posing as a 19th-century circus juggler,
Teutonic knights (clothed and nude) and a middle-aged,
middleclass woman from the 1970s.  Mocking Stares  As in all of her self-portraits, the figures look down on
us with vacuous, mocking stares that suggest that nothing,
including Sherman’s art, should be taken very seriously.  Inside the galleries, the most compelling pictures are
Sherman’s small, early black-and-white images from the fictional
“Untitled Film Stills” (1977-80). Adopting various personas,
and posed dramatically and always alone, Sherman occupies
streets, yards, pools, beaches and interiors.  The scenes feel so familiar that at first you cannot help
trying to recall their films of origin. We feel as if we know
these actresses and their locations, as well as their
narratives, costars and directors.  But it is all a ruse. Even here, her characters lack depth
and dimension. They cannot escape from their overbearing
surfaces and artificialities. At MoMA, posturing passes for
probity.  Ambiguity is mistaken for art. Revealing virtually nothing
in her photographs, Sherman turns self-portraiture on its head.  (Lance Esplund is U.S. art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Lance Esplund in New York at  lesplund@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 