-- Cohen: Wall Street Confesses to Bonus Culture’s Ills
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2012-02-27T00:05:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/cohan-wall-street-confesses-to-bonus-culture-ills.html
Imagine if you could hear directly,
albeit anonymously, from the normally secretive bankers and
traders who manufactured and sold the trillions of dollars in
toxic debt securities that pushed the world’s financial system
to the brink of disaster in 2008.  Would they defend themselves and their actions, or show a
degree of remorse for what they caused and have not been held
accountable for?  Well, you can find the answer to that question in
 “Conversations With Wall Street,”  a compact -- and largely
overlooked -- book by  Peter Ressler  and  Monika Mitchell 
published last year by FastPencil Premiere, in Campbell,
 California .  Ressler and Mitchell worked together at a Wall Street
executive search firm that specialized in finding senior people
for fixed-income trading departments. They placed in their
positions of leadership many of the bankers and traders who
ended up causing the financial crisis that we are still trying
to recover from.  “In the beginning of the crisis, we were as horrified as
anyone else,” Mitchell wrote in the book’s preface. “Just like
the general public, we along with many others in the finance
world, were outraged and furious at colleagues who had damaged,
if not destroyed, our livelihoods.”  Stripped of Glamour  The pair set about interviewing some of the people they had
recruited and placed in positions of power to “bring a deeper
understanding” of how  Wall Street  works “stripped of its
glamour.”  It ain’t pretty. For instance, there is “Stan,” one of
“those guys Main Street loves to hate,” whose job was to trade
mortgage-backed securities. He did that for 10 years until his
firm imploded. He got paid more than $1 million a year. “I’m
just a moving man,” he told the authors. “My job is to move
bonds off my books as fast as possible.” He gave little thought
to whether the underlying value of the homes -- the mortgages
from which he traded -- had risen beyond realistic levels,
making the securities he sold terribly overvalued.  “The whole game was about price appreciation,” he
explained. “We weren’t concerned about the value of the housing
markets, just the products offered. We are in the moving
business. We buy loans and securities and move them within two
months.” He continued: “We sold them to money managers,
pension funds, insurance companies and  hedge funds . This was a
seller’s market. We got paid fifty cents for each hundred
dollars sold. If we sold $1 billion, we made $5 million. … We
didn’t care.”  Another interviewee, “Sean,” was the co-head of the
fixed-income division of a major Wall Street firm, where he was
on the management and executive committees. In his late 40s, his
net worth was more than $100 million. He said he saw some risks
coming in the mortgage market, but he could not persuade his
colleagues to slow down.  “There are a lot of people on and off Wall Street who are
responsible for this crisis,” he explained. “One of the main
reasons it happened is because the Street got velocitized.” By
this, he meant that as risk ratcheted up and became the norm,
greater risks needed to be taken to get the same adrenaline rush
that bankers and traders felt originally. He likened it to
driving a car, first going from zero to 60 miles per hour --
“you can feel the speed as it increases,” he said -- but then
60 feels normal so you have to start driving 90 or more for the
same feeling of acceleration. “But now you are cruising at a
very dangerous speed,” he said. “The level of control you have
over the vehicle you’re driving is substantially reduced. When
the car crashes, there are usually no survivors.”  Sleepless Nights  Then there was “Greg,” a senior executive of a Wall
Street group that manufactured and sold billions of dollars of
mortgage-backed securities crammed full of mortgages made to
subprime borrowers. Ressler spoke with him in early 2008 as the
crisis was reaching a peak. Greg’s boss had been fired, and he
was left alone to manage the portfolio. “I haven’t slept in
months,” he told Ressler. “I toss and turn all night. I know
this stuff is going to implode.” He said he had known for “a
few years now” that his group was creating and selling toxic
securities. He said he “thought about” sharing with his bosses
how concerned he was becoming. “But at the end of the year they
were thrilled that we did a billion dollars” a month in
securitizations tied to subprime mortgages. “After they paid my
bonus, they asked if I could double that and get the number up
to two billion. That was what the competition was doing.”  Ressler wanted to know how Greg could keep selling the
securities to investors at par knowing how lousy they were. “I
had no choice,” he said. “If I don’t do it, somebody else
will. There are at least 10 guys that would give their right arm
for my seat. Besides, if we let up for one second, the
competition would take the business in the blink of an eye.”  What Ressler and Mitchell have elicited from these bankers
and traders rings true to me. During my 17 years on Wall Street,
no one ever got rewarded for questioning whether what we were
all selling -- I was selling merger advice -- was right, wrong
or indifferent. Our only rewards came from selling our services,
day in, day out. We hoped what we were doing was ethical -- and
legal -- but there was no upside in questioning authority or
what we sold or how we sold it.  What is painfully clear from Ressler and Mitchell’s
transcripts is that the incentive system on Wall Street that
rewards bankers and traders for the revenue they generate by
constantly selling whatever comes across their desks, regardless
of its quality, is terribly, terribly broken. People are simple:
They do what they are rewarded to do, and they will continue to
do that over and over again until they are rewarded to do
something else.  Now, four years after the crisis started -- and despite the
Dodd-Frank law intended to reduce the risks on Wall Street --
not one thing has changed in what bankers and traders are
rewarded to do. Until that happens, you can forget about
preventing another crisis on Wall Street.  (William D. Cohan, a former investment banker and the
author of “Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the
World,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at 
 tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 