-- Colombia’s FARC Rebels Vow to Halt Kidnappings, Free Hostages
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-02-27T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/colombia-s-farc-rebels-vow-to-halt-kidnappings-free-hostages.html
Colombia ’s largest rebel group
promised to halt kidnappings for ransom and will release its
remaining hostages, bringing it closer to negotiating a peace
agreement after waging nearly five decades of war.  “We wish to express our feelings of admiration for the
families of the soldiers and police in our power,” the
Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, said in a
 statement  yesterday. “They never lost faith.”  The group didn’t agree to end hostilities or stop taking
soldiers captive, and the government’s decision to boost
military spending will only prolong the conflict, the FARC said
in the statement dated Feb. 26 from the “mountains of
Colombia.” The rebels also called on the government to free
“political prisoners” to facilitate an end to the war.  “They’re not capitulating and suing for peace yet, but
this does make it sound like they’re thinking about an eventual
negotiation,”  Adam Isacson , an analyst at the Washington Office
on Latin America, said in a telephone interview yesterday.
“It’s a big step.”  Until recently, the FARC used to kidnap thousands of
Colombians each year. A U.S.-back military offensive has
dwindled the rebels’ ranks by more than half over the past
decade, allowing the government to reclaim highways and rural
areas that were previously off-limits.  The security improvements are fueling a boom in mining and
oil investment. Colombia’s economy will grow 5.1 percent this
year, and probably expanded around 6 percent in 2011, Finance
Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry said this month. That’s more than
the 3.6 percent growth rate forecast by the  International
Monetary Fund  for the rest of  Latin America  this year.  Remaining Hostages  In addition to the six prisoners they pledged to release in
December, some of whom had been held for up to 12 years, they
said they’ll now release the final four remaining captives.  Formal dialogue with the government wouldn’t start at the
earliest until 2014, when Colombia holds presidential elections,
he said. The last peace talks between the two sides broke down
in 2002.  “We appreciate the FARC’s announcement that it will
renounce kidnapping as an important and needed step, but it’s
not enough,” President  Juan Manuel Santos  said from his Twitter
account yesterday.  The FARC, which is classified as a terrorist organization
by the U.S. and the European Union, was founded in 1964 as a
rural, Marxist insurgency.  The group’s leader  Alfonso Cano , whose real name was
Guillermo Saenz, was killed last year during a firefight with
government troops. Timoleon Jimenez, also known as Timochenko,
replaced him in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  