-- Costa Cruise Ship Remains Adrift After Fire Near Seychelles
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   a n d   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e
-- 2012-02-27T21:11:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/costa-cruise-ship-adrift-near-seychelles.html
A  Carnival Corp. (CCL)  cruise liner
carrying more than 1,000 people remained adrift off the
Seychelles after a fire shut down its engines, six weeks after
at least 25 people died in an accident aboard a sister ship, the
Costa Concordia.  No one was injured in the fire on the Costa Allegra, the
Miami-based company’s Italian unit, Costa Crociere SpA said in
an e-mailed statement today. A general emergency alarm was
declared as a precautionary measure and passengers were asked to
assemble in muster areas, the company said. The fire was
extinguished and didn’t spread to other parts of the cruise
liner.  The ship was without engine power about 200 miles (322
kilometers) from the Seychelles in the  Indian Ocean , said
Captain Giorgio Moretti, Costa Crociere’s nautical operations
director, on a conference call today. A cargo ship is expected
to reach the liner by 12 a.m. local time in Rome, and two French
fishing vessels are also on the way, Moretti said. A pair of
tugboats are expected to reach the vessel tomorrow afternoon,
Moretti said. There’s no risk the liner may hit rocks, he said.  “When the tug boats arrive, the captain will decide
whether to tug the boat with passengers on, or to board them on
another ship,” Moretti said, adding that weather conditions are
fine.  Costa Concordia  The Costa Allegra, from the same fleet as the Costa
Concordia that ran aground off the Tuscan coast on Jan. 13, is
carrying 636 passengers and 413 crew, Genoa, Italy-based Costa
Crociere said. Fourteen Costa Crociere managers and technical
personnel are flying to the Seychelles to assist passengers,
Moretti said.  The Concordia hit rocks near Giglio Island hours after
leaving a port near  Rome  with 4,200 passengers and crew for a
Mediterranean cruise. Seven people are still missing, according
to  Italy ’s civil-protection agency. Francesco Schettino, the
ship’s captain, was placed under house arrest on Jan. 17 for
allegedly causing the shipwreck.  Carnival’s shares were little changed at $29.96 at the
close in  New York .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Milan at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;
Marco Bertacche in Milan at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  