-- Credit Swaps Panel Asked If Greek Parliament Triggered Payouts
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-02-27T22:06:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/credit-swaps-panel-asked-if-greek-parliament-triggered-payouts.html
A committee of banks and investors
that governs credit-default swaps was asked to rule whether
 Greece ’s parliament triggered payouts on contracts that protect
against losses on the country’s debt.  The  International Swaps and Derivatives Association ’s
determinations committee was asked whether a so-called
restructuring credit event was caused by publication today of
legislation that the Greek parliament passed as part of its
agreement to exchange bonds for new securities, the trade group
said on its  website .  The restructuring, in which bondholders take a 53.5 percent
reduction in the value of their investments, uses collective
action clauses to discourage holdouts. The use of such clauses
would trigger swap contracts, according to ISDA rules.  The committee is being asked whether the contracts have
already been triggered because the deal gives the European
Central bank and national central banks “a change in the
ranking in priority of payment” by allowing them to exchange
out of their eligible debt prior to the collective-action
clauses taking effect, according to the ISDA website. The
committee will decide whether to accept the question by Feb. 29,
ISDA said in a  statement  today.  Greece negotiated the biggest debt restructuring in history
as it seeks to reduce national debt to about 120 percent of
gross domestic product by 2020, from 160 percent last year, and
to meet the terms of a 130 billion-euro ($170 billion)
international bailout. The debt swap will slice 100 billion
euros off more than 200 billion euros of privately held debt if
all investors participate.  Banks,  hedge funds  and other money managers had bought and
sold credit swaps on a net $3.2 billion of Greek obligations as
of Feb. 17, according to the Depository Trust & Clearing Corp.,
which runs a central repository for the market. Credit swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  