-- Oil Drops From Nine-Month High After IMF Warns on Global Economic Growth
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-02-27T12:49:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/crude-futures-snap-longest-rally-in-two-years-as-imf-warns-on-economy.html
Oil fell, halting its longest rally
in two years, after a warning from the  International Monetary
Fund  on the global economy sparked concern that prices have
climbed too fast.  Futures slid as much as 1.4 percent in New York after seven
days of gains. Oil’s relative strength index signaled that the
longest winning streak since January 2010 may have been
exaggerated. The world economy is “not out of the danger zone”
amid fragile financial systems and rising oil prices, IMF
Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said yesterday. Prices
gained the most in two months last week amid tensions with Iran,
OPEC’s second-biggest producer.  “A correction is well overdue,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov ,
an analyst at VTB Capital in London who predicts that prices
will hold at about current levels this week. Oil’s “relentless
push higher could only be explained by pure supply-side fears.”  Oil for April delivery fell as much as $1.53 to $108.24 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange
and was at $108.53 at 12:40 p.m. London time. The contract
gained 1.8 percent to $109.77 on Feb. 24, the highest close
since May 3. Prices increased 6.3 percent last week and are 12
percent higher the past year.  Brent oil for April settlement declined $1.38 to $124.09 on
the London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange. The European
benchmark contract’s  premium  to New York-traded West Texas
Intermediate was at $15.37, compared with $15.70 on Feb. 24 and
a record $27.88 on Oct. 14. Last week, Brent reached record
values when converted into euros or U.K. pounds as those
currencies declined.  Relative Strength  New York crude’s 14-day relative strength index climbed to
76.9 on Feb. 24, the highest since April, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. A reading above 70 indicates futures have
risen too quickly and further gains aren’t sustainable.
Investors tend to sell contracts when prices are considered
overbought. Today’s 14-day RSI is about 71.  Group of 20 nations must strengthen their economies against
further shocks including higher crude prices, Lagarde said after
a meeting of the G-20 in Mexico City. Rising oil prices may push
inflation in  South Korea , the world’s fifth-largest oil
importer, above the government’s target and have a “far-
reaching impact” on the economy, Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan
said at the meeting.  The G-20 rebuffed German-led calls to help Europe fight its
debt crisis, saying any decision on outside aid hinges on the
euro area delivering more financial firepower within two months.
Progress will be assessed in April, when officials gather in
 Washington , the G-20 said in a statement.  Iran Threat  German lawmakers vote on a second Greek rescue package
today. Europe’s biggest economy is also weighing whether to
agree to beef up the region’s financial backstop to a potential
750 billion euros ($1 trillion) at a March 1-2 European summit.  Oil has advanced 12 percent this year amid concern that
sanctions against  Iran ’s nuclear program will disrupt crude
supplies from the second-biggest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries. Iran has threatened to shut the
 Strait of Hormuz , a transit route for a fifth of the world’s
oil, in response to an embargo.  Russian Prime Minister and presidential candidate  Vladimir
Putin  warned Western leaders against a military strike on Iran.
 Russia  is concerned that there is a “growing threat” of action
against Iran that would be “truly catastrophic,” he said in
the latest of a series of articles published before Russia’s
March 4 elections.  Hedge funds  and other large speculators raised wagers on
rising prices 11 percent in the week ended Feb. 21, according to
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s Commitments of
Traders report. Bets increased 26 percent over two weeks, the
biggest gain since March.  In  London , money managers raised bullish bets on  Brent
crude  by 10,682 contracts in the week ended Feb. 21, according
to  weekly data from ICE Futures Europe .  Speculative bets that prices will rise, in futures and
options combined, outnumbered short positions by 107,895 lots,
the London-based exchange said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  