-- Crude Futures Decline as G-20 Rejects Europe Request, IMF Warns on Economy
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-02-27T20:53:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/crude-futures-decline-for-first-time-in-eight-days-on-europe-debt-concern.html
Oil fell for the first time in eight
days after the Group of 20 nations rebuffed calls from euro
countries to increase lending resources, adding to concern that
 Europe ’s debt crisis will slow the economy and reduce demand.  Prices dropped 1.1 percent as the G-20 said Europe needs to
review its financial firewall before the group considers
boosting the International Monetary Fund’s resources. IMF
Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  warned the world economy is
“not out of the danger zone” amid fragile financial systems
and rising oil prices.  “We’ve got a range of fundamental factors that are bearish
and Europe is in that category,” said  Tim Evans , an energy
analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in New York. “We had been
rising sharply day after day and prices have reached a level
where traders are afraid to buy more.”  Oil for April delivery fell $1.21 to settle at $108.56 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The contract rose to
a nine-month high on Feb. 24. Prices have increased 9.8 percent
this year.  Brent oil for April settlement declined $1.30, or 1
percent, to $124.17 on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. Both grades fell further in electronic trading after
the settlements, with WTI down 2 percent and Brent down 1.7
percent.  “You have the IMF warning about the world economy and the
worries about Europe are starting to re-emerge,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in
Stamford, Connecticut. “The market went a little too far on the
upside and it’s now pulling back a bit.”  G-20 Rejection  The G-20 rebuffed German-led calls to help Europe fight its
debt crisis, saying yesterday in Mexico City that any decision
on outside aid hinges on the euro area delivering more financial
firepower within two months.  Lagarde said that G-20 countries “must now strengthen
resilience to further shocks that could result from still
fragile financial systems, high public and private debt, and
higher world oil prices.”  U.S. oil demand was 18.1 million barrels a day in the four
weeks ended Feb. 17, according to the Energy Department, a 14-
year low and  17 percent below  the record set in 2007. The
 International Energy Agency  on Feb. 10 cut its 2012 global oil
demand forecast for a sixth month.  Technical Indicators  Crude also slipped after the 14-day relative strength index
for front-month contracts climbed to 76.9 on Feb. 24, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. A reading above 70 indicates
futures have risen too quickly and further gains aren’t
sustainable. Today’s 14-day RSI dropped below 71.  “Technical indicators, the RSI for example, are pointing
to a little bit overbought,” said Rich Ilczyszyn, chief market
strategist and founder of Iitrader.com in Chicago.  Nymex-traded West Texas Intermediate’s discount to Brent
crude narrowed for a third day as Calgary-based  TransCanada (TRP)  said
it will build a $2.3 billion stand-alone pipeline from the oil
storage hub at Cushing, Oklahoma, to the  Gulf Coast  that may be
in operation by mid-2013.  The segment will help to relieve oversupply in the U.S.
Midwest. Cushing is the delivery point for Nymex oil futures. A
lack of pipeline capacity between Cushing and the Gulf Coast,
where most refineries are located, has caused U.S. oil to trade
at a discount to imports.  ‘Raising Hopes’  The Keystone XL project, which would expand the amount of
oil that can be shipped from  Canada  and extend the system to
Texas refineries, was rejected by the Obama administration in
January. The planned segment from Cushing to  Port Arthur , Texas,
wouldn’t require State Department approval.  “This is raising hopes that the bottleneck from Cushing to
the Gulf Coast is coming to an end,” said  Phil Flynn , an
analyst at PFGBest in  Chicago .  WTI’s  discount to Brent  narrowed 9 cents to $15.61 a
barrel. The spread was $19.02 on Feb. 6. It reached $28.08 in
intraday trading on Oct. 14 amid a glut of crude in the central
U.S. that pushed crude  inventories at Cushing  as high as 41.9
million barrels last year.  Hedge funds  and other large speculators raised wagers on
rising prices in futures and options combined by 11 percent to
259,162 in the week ended Feb. 21, according to the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission’s Commitments of Traders report. Bets
increased 26 percent over two weeks, the biggest gain since
March.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 621,630
contracts as of 3:27 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 798,279
contracts on Feb. 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  