-- Cuomo Urges Mayors to Take N.Y Pension-Overhaul Fight Home
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-02-27T22:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/cuomo-urges-new-york-state-mayors-to-take-fight-on-pension-overhaul-home.html
New York (STONY1)  Governor  Andrew Cuomo  urged
the state’s mayors to rally their communities in support of his
proposal to raise the retirement age for new workers and offer a
401(k)-type alternative to government pensions.  The measure would save $113 billion for public employers,
including New York City, over the next 30 years, Cuomo said
today at a meeting of the  New York State Conference of Mayors
and Municipal Officials  in Albany, the capital. The pension
changes have drawn Cuomo into a battle with the state’s public-
worker unions and Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli , a fellow Democrat
and the sole trustee of the $140.3 billion pension fund.  “If we have this argument in this town, we lose because
they control the dialogue,” Cuomo, 54, said, describing  Albany 
as a “company town” run by the unions. “I want to have it in
communities all across this state because that’s where people
get it, and that’s where people understand the facts and that’s
where we will win. But I need you to make it happen.”  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  of New York announced last week
that 12 mayors and 13 county executives representing 15 million
residents had joined a coalition to support Cuomo’s proposed
pension changes. Bloomberg is coming to Albany to promote the
plan on Feb. 29, the day lawmakers return from a two-week break.  Competing Globally  In a letter sent to legislative leaders today,  Kathryn Wylde , president of the Partnership for  New York City , a group
of corporate chief executives, backed Cuomo’s proposal, saying
the state and city can’t continue “to compete globally if we do
not find ways to contain the growing costs of government.”  New York’s retirement fund, the third-largest U.S. public
pension, had 101.5 percent of the money needed to pay its
obligations in 2010, better than any other state, according to
an annual study by Bloomberg Rankings. To keep it funded after
losses incurred in the financial crisis, the system has
increased the payments made by local governments. By 2015, 35
percent of local-government budgets will be consumed by pension
costs, up from 3 percent in 2001, Cuomo said today.  “This year is about pension reform,” Cuomo said. “We
need to change the relationship with the special interests
because we can’t afford to pay the pension because the taxpayers
are broke.”  Budget Power  Cuomo put the pension changes into his budget proposal for
the fiscal year that begins April 1. He said last week that if
lawmakers send him a spending plan without the measure, he’ll
force the Legislature to choose between shutting the government
or passing his plan by using a so-called budget extender. The
process is used to keep the government operating when there’s no
agreement on the budget. The governor has the power to put any
item in an extender.  The proposal to give new state workers the option of
choosing a 401(k)-type plan has drawn the most fire, with unions
describing it as an attack on the middle class and DiNapoli
saying defined-contribution plans provide less security than a
government pension. Cuomo also wants the  retirement age  for new
workers to be 65, up from the current 62.  Cuomo is “flexible” on the measure, he said during a
press conference today following his speech.  “There’s a negotiation with the Legislature, and at the
end of the day it’s about the savings,” Cuomo said. “I was
born flexible. I’ve gotten more flexible as governor. I’m a
veritable Gumby.”  Talking to Unions  Even if the governor removes the 401(k)-type option from
the proposal, unions should still be involved in the discussion,
DiNapoli said during a press conference following a speech he
gave to the mayors conference today.  “My biggest concern is the 401(k) option,” DiNapoli said.
“If we keep it as a defined-benefit plan, we need an inclusive
discussion of what the parameters of that plan should be.”  Cuomo said he won’t talk to the unions about it. Last year,
the governor won pay freezes and furloughs from the state’s two
biggest unions after threatening to fire almost 10,000 workers.
The new contracts saved the state $450 million in the first
year. Pensions aren’t part of the collective-bargaining process,
and are determined by the Legislature and the governor, Cuomo
said.  “I have nothing to negotiate with,” he said.  New York ’s mayor is the founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  