-- Dalglish Delivers for Fenway as Liverpool Breaks Six-Year Trophy Drought
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-02-27T01:15:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/dalglish-delivers-for-fenway-as-liverpool-breaks-six-year-trophy-drought.html
Liverpool’s Carling Cup final
victory may usher in a new era of success after the Reds
overcame Cardiff in a penalty shootout to break their six-year
trophy drought, manager  Kenny Dalglish  said.  Liverpool won the shootout 3-2 yesterday, capturing English
soccer’s second-tier cup competition for a record-extending
eighth time when Cardiff’s Anthony Gerrard missed his spot kick.
His cousin, Liverpool captain Steven Gerrard, was among four
others who failed to convert.  “Although we’ve won something, that’s not us finished,”
Dalglish said at a news conference at  London ’s Wembley stadium.
“We don’t want to stop here. We want to keep going.”  Liverpool’s first trophy since the 2006 F.A. Cup came
almost 14 months after Dalglish took over for his second spell
as manager. Dalglish, 60, led Liverpool to a then-record 18th
English league championship in 1990, a tally that has since been
bettered by archrival  Manchester United .  Dalglish was appointed by Fenway Sports Group, the club’s
owners, on a temporary basis in January 2011 after  Roy Hodgson 
left the club by mutual consent after six months in charge. He
signed a three-year contract as permanent manager in May.  “The whole club had a lot of pressure but Kenny has been
extraordinary from day one,”  John Henry , Liverpool’s principal
owner, told the club’s website. “This is the first step for
this club in trying to get to the point where we’re talking
about things on the field rather than off the field.”  ‘Couldn’t Watch’  While Henry described yesterday’s penalty shootout as
“torturous,” his business partner and Liverpool Chairman  Tom Werner  said the tension was too much for him.  “I really couldn’t watch the penalties,” Werner told
liverpoolfc.tv. “I heard but I couldn’t watch. I’m just proud
we won because it’s a first step and we’re looking forward to
more silver.”  Liverpool is seventh in  England ’s Premier League, seven
points behind fourth-place Arsenal in the final Champions League
qualifying spot. The Reds host Stoke in the quarterfinals of the
F.A. Cup on March 18.  Yesterday’s shootout followed a 2-2 tie after extra time.  Joe Mason scored for Cardiff, which plays in the second-
tier Championship, after 19 minutes, with  Martin Skrtel  replying
for Liverpool in the 60th minute. Substitute Dirk Kuyt appeared
to have won it for Liverpool with a 108th-minute strike before
Ben Turner scored 10 minutes later.  Steven Gerrard  took the first penalty, which was saved by
goalkeeper Tom Heaton. Charlie Adam fired over the crossbar for
the Reds, while  Kenny Miller , Rudy Gestede and then Anthony
Gerrard missed for Cardiff.  Bluebirds Take Lead  The Bluebirds were the first team from outside the top
division to reach the Carling Cup final since Birmingham City in
2001. Liverpool also won that match in a penalty shootout.  Cardiff went ahead yesterday after Liverpool fullback  Glen Johnson  hit the crossbar with a second-minute shot. The opening
goal came after Miller took possession to the left of
Liverpool’s penalty area before sliding a pass through to Mason,
who slipped the ball into the net.  Center-back Skrtel made it 1-1 on the hour when he fired
past after  Luis Suarez  hit a post with his header.  Johnson fired narrowly wide for Liverpool in extra time
before Kuyt put Liverpool ahead with 12 minutes remaining when
he slid in to poke the ball past Heaton. The Dutch striker then
headed off the line to maintain Liverpool’s advantage before
Turner forced the ball in from the resulting corner to take the
game to penalties.  Dalglish, a Liverpool fans’ favorite from his days as a
player with the club, said the victory was the culmination of
“a lot of hard work from an awful lot of people.”  “Everybody has worked as hard as they possible could to
move the club forward,” he said. “We had seven players come in
this season and for them to walk away with a trophy in their
first season means they can be very proud of their achievements.
We’ll just continue to work hard and see where it takes us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  