-- Default Risk in Europe Nine Times Higher Than Treasuries After Greek Pact
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e ,   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2012-02-27T17:36:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/default-risk-in-europe-nine-times-higher-than-treasuries-after-greek-pact.html
The bailout that rescued Greece from
a looming default has failed to restore confidence in credit
markets, where traders are paying nine times more to insure
European  government bonds  than they are for Treasuries.  While  European stocks  are off to their best start since
1998, the relative cost of credit default swaps has risen to a
record, more than double the July level, according to CMA. To
obtain 130 billion euros ($175 billion) in aid to help pay
interest on bonds due March 20, Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  agreed to reduce debt to 120.5 percent of gross
domestic product by 2020 from about 160 percent last year.  While chances of defaults and the breakup of the euro may
have diminished, investors are no longer rewarding European
governments for reducing spending to cut debt as their economies
shrink. U.S. bond yields have stayed near record lows and growth
is accelerating as President  Barack Obama  uses a different
strategy, more than doubling the amount of outstanding debt to
$10 trillion to fuel the recovery.  “Bond markets don’t believe in the same story that stock
markets do,” Robin Marshall, director of fixed income in London
at Smith & Williamson Investment Management, which oversees
about $18 billion, said in a Feb. 22 interview. “Countries are
still saddled with huge debt, are facing either economic
downturn or recession.”  Default Risk  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe index of default
swaps linked to 15 nations from  Finland  to  Italy  rose 6.5 basis
points in February to 345.5, up 33 percent since July,
indicating a rising perception of risk. It reached an all-time
high of 385 on Nov. 25. The cost of insuring  U.S. debt  dropped
by more than 40 percent in that period. The ratio between the
two rose a record 9.81-to-1 on Feb. 23, up from 4-to-1 seven
months ago and 1.6-to-one in 2009.  The yield on the 10-year German bond,  Europe ’s benchmark
government security, fell more than five basis points to 1.83
percent at 12:25 p.m.  New York  time, with the price of the 2
percent bund due in January 2022 rising to 101.55. The
equivalent-maturity Treasury yield slid six basis points to 1.91
percent. The 2 percent note gained 18/32 to 100 14/32.  Greece’s economy, in its fifth year of recession, will
contract 4.4 percent in 2012, according to European Commission
forecasts on Feb. 23. The second bailout in as many years
includes a debt swap with private bondholders, who will lose
53.5 percent of their principal.  Yields Soar  High debt levels in Italy and  Spain  have sent borrowing
costs to euro-era highs, slowing growth. The  Italian 10-year
yield (GBTPGR10)  rose to 7.48 percent on Nov. 9, with Spain’s reaching 6.78
percent on Nov. 17.  Italy’s gross domestic product will drop 1.3 percent this
year, while Spain will contract 1 percent and Portugal 3.3
percent, according to the commission.  The euro region will shrink 0.3 percent this year, from a
November estimate of 0.5 percent growth. Government debt for the
17-nation bloc will increase to 90.4 percent of GDP from 88
percent in 2011, and will climb to 90.9 percent in 2013,
according to commission forecasts on Nov. 10.  “There still are a lot of risks in Europe,”  Brian Smedley , a strategist in New York at Bank of America Corp., said
in a telephone interview on Feb. 22. “Growth data for Portugal,
and  Greece  especially, is just not sustainable.” Bank of
America favors five-year Treasury notes, whose yield may reach
0.60 percent, down from 0.89 percent at the end of last week.  Equity Rebound  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi , who replaced
Jean-Claude Trichet in November, has taken steps to stem the
fallout. He cut the  main refinancing rate  by a quarter
percentage point in each of his first two monthly meetings, to 1
percent, reversing increases earlier in the year. He also
maintained the ECB’s bond-buying program and added money to the
banking system by providing 523 financial institutions a record
489 billion euros in three-year loans on Dec. 21.  The central bank will probably allot 470 billion euros in a
second three-year injection in two days, the median of 28
analyst estimates in a Bloomberg survey showed.  The measures have helped underpin an equity recovery, with
the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  rising 8.3 percent this year as of
last week, its best performance since a 10.1 percent gain in the
comparable period of 1998. The euro strengthened to the highest
level since Dec. 5 on Feb. 24, reaching $1.3487. The yield on
the 10-year Italian bond was at 5.39 percent today, with the
Spanish yield at 4.97 percent.  Funding Costs Drop  “Draghi is the man in the right place at the right time,”
Fabrizio Fiorini, the chief investment officer at Aletti
Gestielle SGR SpA in Milan, which manages $8 billion, said in a
Feb. 24 telephone interview. “What he has done, especially
providing the long-term loan, is a game changer that defuses a
lethal time bomb. Some people argue that all he did was buy
time. But time is absolutely essential in solving a problem.”  The loans have helped drive the premiums that European
banks pay to get dollar funding through currency swaps down from
a three-year high in November, while they remain above the lows
of last year.  Three-month cross currency basis swaps, which show the cost
to convert euro-denominated loans into dollar debt, were 68.1
basis points below the euro interbank offered rate, or Euribor,
today, cheaper than the 162.5 basis points on Nov. 30, which was
the most expensive since the months after Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. collapsed in September 2008. The premium was at
about a two-year-low of minus 7.1 basis points on May 3.  Legrand Stagnates  Government focus on reducing debt instead of boosting
growth is hurting industries even in countries without outsized
deficits. Siemens AG of  Germany , Royal Philips Electronics NV in
the Netherlands, and at least 105 other Stoxx 600 companies have
reported results that missed analysts’ forecasts since Jan. 9,
Bloomberg data show.  Limoges, France-based  Legrand SA (LR) , the world’s largest maker
of wiring devices, said Feb. 9 that its operating margin may
fall this year as sales stagnate because of southern Europe’s
slump. Steelmaker  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) , based in Essen, Germany, said
five days later it was unable to give a “reliable” outlook
given the crisis.  Social unrest may make it harder for governments to fulfill
their austerity pledges. Thousands of protesters rallied across
Spain on Feb. 19 against a decree that lowers the cost of
dismissing workers and makes it easier for employers to reduce
wages. Rioters in Athens set fire to as many as 45 buildings,
including banks, shopping malls and national heritage sites
during protests that began on Feb. 12.  ‘Hard Environment’  The crisis has also cost politicians their jobs. At least
five prime ministers, including Italy’s Silvio Berlusconi and
Greece’s  George Papandreou , have lost their positions. French
President Nicolas Sarkozy has been gaining in opinion surveys,
though he still trails Socialist Party opponent  Francois Hollande  less than two months before elections, according to CSA
polling institute.  “It’s a hard environment to implement austerity
measures,” Helen Roberts, who oversees 27 billion pounds ($43
billion) as head of government bonds at F&C Asset Management in
 London , said in a Feb. 21 interview. “The Greek government
might not be able to do much even though they are fully
committed to the agreement.”  While European leaders cut spending, Obama sent Congress a
$3.8 trillion budget on Feb. 13. He proposed more money for
jobs, highways, bridges, schools, student aid and manufacturing
research, even as the deficit increases to a projected $1.33
trillion this fiscal year from $1.3 trillion in the year ended
Sept. 30.  Economic Expansion  The  Federal Reserve  has bought $2.3 trillion of Treasury
and mortgage-related bonds between 2008 and June 2011 to support
the economy in two rounds of so-called quantitative easing, and
has pledged to keep its target interest rate for overnight loans
between banks at about zero through 2014.  The  U.S. economy  will expand 2.2 percent this year,
according to the median of 79 forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.
It will grow 2.5 percent in 2013, with the euro area returning
to growth at 1 percent, separate surveys show.  “The credit markets reaction makes complete sense because
the Greek deal does not solve the fundamental problems, at best
it buys some time,” Michael Darda, chief market strategist at
MKM Partners LP in Stamford, Connecticut, said in a telephone
interview on Feb. 24. “The Fed has thus far avoided the mistake
the ECB made, tightening policy when they should have been
easing, which is one reason the recovery here seems to be doing
a bit better.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net ;
Abigail Moses in London at 
 amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net 
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Armstrong at +44-20-7330-7185 or  parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  