-- Dell Unveils New Servers Aimed at Beefing Up Data Centers
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-02-27T21:21:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/dell-unveils-new-servers-aimed-at-beefing-up-data-centers-1-.html
Dell Inc. (DELL)  introduced a new line of
servers designed to help business customers beef up data centers
for information storage and the delivery of software and
computing via the Internet.  The so-called PowerEdge servers will help customers handle
computing tasks more quickly, and work in closer concert with
Dell’s other products, including storage gear,  Round Rock ,
Texas-based Dell said today in a statement. Chief Executive
Officer  Michael Dell  also discussed the new products during a
presentation in  San Francisco .  Dell, the third-largest maker of personal computers, is
using  acquisitions  and spending more on research and development
to lessen its dependence on the personal computer market, which
is facing stiffer competition from smartphones and tablets.
Consumers and business users are increasingly performing
computing tasks on those devices instead of on desktops and
laptops, which make up  54 percent  of Dell’s sales.  “We’ve been on a mission at Dell the last few years to
transform the company,” CEO Dell said at the event today.
“We’re investing at all-time high levels in research and
development.”  The company forecast fiscal first-quarter revenue on Feb.
21 that missed analysts’  estimates  as lackluster demand from
consumers and governments eroded growth. Sales for the period
ending in April will decrease 7 percent to $14.9 billion, the
company said.  Servers, networking gear, data storage and services
accounted for  31 percent  of Dell’s $16 billion in fiscal fourth-
quarter sales, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
company is also expanding in software, and acquired data backup
software maker AppAssure for an undisclosed price Feb. 24.  Dell climbed less than 1 percent to $17.52 at the close in
 New York . It has advanced 20 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  