-- Democratic Governors See Economy Enabling Obama’s Re-Election
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y   a n d   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-02-27T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/democratic-governors-see-economy-enabling-obama-s-re-election.html
Democratic U.S. governors said
President  Barack Obama ’s re-election chances are being lifted by
an  improving economy  and a prolonged Republican nominating
contest.  Gathered in Washington for the National Governors
Association winter meeting, Republicans and Democrats said
yesterday they saw signs of improvement in states mending from
the 18-month recession that ended almost three years ago. Some
Republicans said the recovery is negligible, or faulted Obama
for restraining growth. Democrats voiced confidence in the
president’s prospects of winning another term in November.  “I just don’t see how you win an election by convincing
the American people that things are terrible and we don’t have a
future,” Vermont Governor Peter Shumlin, a Democrat, said in an
interview. “I keep saying to these guys, ‘Cheer up: Revenues
are coming back. Jobs are returning. We’re making slow and
steady progress.’”  Employers added workers in January at the fastest pace
since April, pushing the  unemployment rate  to 8.3 percent, the
lowest since February 2009.  Consumer confidence  has also risen
to the highest level since April 2008 as more Americans had a
favorable view of their finances, according to the Bloomberg
Consumer Comfort Index, while stock prices rallied.  The U.S. has gained more than 3 million jobs since February
2010. Still, there are still 5.6 million fewer than at the
beginning of 2008, according to the Labor Department.  That’s No Recovery  “There is no turnaround to speak of,” said Republican
Governor  Mitch Daniels  of  Indiana , adding that Obama stands
little chance of carrying his state. He said it’s the “weakest
recovery ever from a serious recession.”  Iowa’s unemployment rate was 5.6 percent in December,
compared with 8.5 percent for the country. Governor Terry Branstad, a Republican elected in 2010, said his state’s economy
has nothing to do with Obama.  “We’re going to sink him,” he said in an interview.
“Agriculture is strong, but that’s certainly got nothing to do
with his policies.”  Republicans are girding for a long nomination battle
between former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , a former
private-equity executive who stresses financial acumen, and  Rick Santorum , a former U.S. senator from Pennsylvania. Santorum
focuses on issues such as his opposition to abortion rights and
gay marriage.  Playing His Game  The two, along with former House of Representatives Speaker
 Newt Gingrich  and Texas Representative  Ron Paul , are facing off
in primary elections tomorrow in  Michigan  and Arizona, and a
week later on so-called Super Tuesday, when 11 states will hold
nominating contests.  Democratic governors at the Washington meeting said
Republican debate over social issues may play into the
president’s hands by repelling independents and shifting
attention away from the economy, voters’ dominant concern.  “Their candidates are not speaking to the issues that
matter to the broad majority of Americans, and those are the
issues that affect jobs, that affect job creation, that can
expand opportunity,” said Maryland Governor  Martin O’Malley ,
the head of the Democratic Governors Association. “They’re
doing somersaults over each other to appeal and to pander to a
mean-spirited and extreme right wing of their party.”  Daniels, who decided against running for the presidency,
said prolonged social debate could hinder Republicans and the
party will shift its attention to the economy.  Jobs, Jobs, Jobs  “The circumstances in this country -- today and the rest
of this year -- are going to drive this discussion, whether the
president likes it or not,” he said.  Pennsylvania  Governor Tom Corbett, a Republican, predicted
that a debate over mending the economy will dominate the race
once his party’s nomination is decided.  “The nominee is going to be talking about the economy,”
Corbett told reporters. “It will be the economy, the economy,
the economy. It’ll be jobs, jobs and jobs.”  The revival of manufacturers, including U.S. automakers
rescued by federal bailouts, is aiding the economies in
Midwestern states that play a crucial role in elections.
Michigan’s fared second-best in the year through September in
the Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of States, an index that
gauges the trajectory of economies, while  Ohio  ranked 10th.  Michigan Governor  Rick Snyder , a Republican, said polls
suggest that Obama is the favored candidate in his state.  Scott Walker  of Wisconsin, also a Republican, said economic
improvement may assist the president, though the election will
hinge on who articulates a better plan for the years ahead.  “It’s one thing to have growth,” Walker said. “It’s
another thing to say here’s where we’re at and here’s how much
better it could be in the future. That’s got to be the nominee’s
ultimate objective: To make the case that ultimately four years
from now you’re going to be much better as opposed to just
marginally better than you might be today.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in  Washington  at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Niquette in Washington at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  