-- Dog Owners Seeking Discounts as PetSmart Confronts Bite: Retail
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2012-02-27T00:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/dog-owners-seeking-discounts-as-petsmart-confronts-bite-retail.html
Liz Harper’s dog once dined on bowls
of Mars Inc.’s Royal Canin tailored to the Boxer breed and
packed with the heart-healthy amino acid L-carnitine. She’d wash
it down with Bowser Beer, a dog drink brewed from malt barley
and salt-free chicken stock. Today,  Billie Holiday  has to settle
for kibble from the local  Target Corp. (TGT)  store.  “It’s probably worse than toxic waste, but she loves it,”
said Harper, a 36-year-old attorney from Pelham, New York.
“It’s cheap and way easier to buy than anything else. She’s a
dog -- she eats out of the garbage can and drinks out of the
sewer. She doesn’t need organic dog food.”  Harper is among a growing proportion of pet owners who are
seeking bargains and shunning more opulent items such as $600
 Swarovski  crystal dog collars, according to researchers Packaged
Facts and  Mintel . The $87 billion pet-product market, once
deemed recession-proof, is starting to show cracks as owners
struggle to make ends meet.  Nearly four out of 10 U.S. pet owners in a September
Packaged Facts survey said they’re spending less on pet
products, up from 27 percent in February 2010. Three-quarters of
them are looking for deals, particularly on non-food items like
apparel and toys. The U.S. is the world’s largest pet product
market, according to researcher Euromonitor International.  “The totally discretionary stuff is increasingly being
cast aside,” said Lee Linthicum, head of food research at
Euromonitor. “People still want to spend a fair bit of money on
their pets, but they are reevaluating their priorities.”  Pet Promotions  That has led pet retailers such as  PetSmart Inc. (PETM)  to offer
promotions to keep customers from defecting to Target,  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)  or specialty websites like  www.wag.com , part of
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  Discounts caused PetSmart’s profit margins on
merchandise to narrow last quarter for the first time in two
years, according to  David Strasser , an analyst at Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC in New York.  Michelle Friedman, a spokeswoman for PetSmart of Phoenix,
declined to comment on the company’s discounting practices.
Strasser has a “neutral”  recommendation  on PetSmart, which
offers a Martha Stewart-branded line of toys, apparel, and $120
dog beds. The company plans to report full-year results Feb. 29.  Closely held  Petco Animal Supplies Inc., (PETC)  PetSmart’s main
competitor, now offers to give $5 back to owners for every $100
they spend under its Pals Rewards loyalty program.  “In America, you have to push harder to get people to
spend,” Euromonitor’s Linthicum said. “There are similar
factors in  Europe  as well.”  Smaller Pack Sizes  To cater to frugal consumers, some pet-food producers have
borrowed tactics from human food-makers like  Kraft Foods Inc., (KFT) 
reducing pack sizes to minimize the impact of rising ingredient
costs, according to London-based Mintel. Prices for dog and cat
food have increased nearly 10 percent since 2006, excluding
currency fluctuations and inflation, Linthicum said. Americans’
disposable income has declined in each of the past five months.  Closely held Mars leads the $71.8 billion global pet food
market with a 24.8 percent share, according to Euromonitor,
followed by Purina maker  Nestle SA, (NESN)  with 23.9 percent. Nestle’s
pet-care unit had organic sales growth of 4.3 percent last year,
the slowest of the Swiss company’s five product groups.  Suppliers of pet services are also doling out deals. Leo
Sanders, the owner of a grooming and boarding business in
Corning,  New York , offers one free day of pet daycare for
customers purchasing a full week. Dogs under Sanders’ care romp
around five acres of outdoor play space and relax to the strains
of classical music.  ‘Recession Flexible’  “Our industry is not recession-proof -- we’re recession
flexible,” Sanders said. “People will still spend, but instead
of frivolous spending on squeakers and rawhide bones, now they
are reading labels and making sure it’s a quality product. And
they’re asking for discounts more.”  Sanders, whose pet bulldog has its own Facebook page, said
services like day care, boarding and grooming are now 75 percent
of his total revenue, compared with several years ago when the
majority of sales came from food, dog collars and apparel.  “Customers are going away from some of the pricier
accessories and more to the services you can provide,” he said.
“They are more willing to purchase a spa treatment than a
leather collar studded with Swarovski crystals.”  Joanne Mahon, managing director of Diamond Dogs in the
U.K., supplies just those collars to luxury department stores
such as London-based Harrods Ltd. and pet boutiques in  Manhattan 
and Laguna Beach,  California , whose customers include  Jennifer Lopez  and actress  Jessica Alba .  Swarovski-Laden Collar  Sales of Mahon’s items, which include a Swarovski-laden
collar and leash pairing for $1,135, fell as much as 25 percent
last year, she said in an interview conducted over the din of 10
new Saluki puppies. Buyers in  Asia  have helped pick up the
slack, she said.  “The saving grace for pet products is emerging markets,”
Euromonitor’s Linthicum said.  Mahon said some customers save all year to buy her
 products,  which include bespoke beds that start at $3,100. One-
in-six pet owners has cut back on other household expenses so as
not to skimp on pets, Mintel has found.  Tighter household budgets have also had a “sobering
effect” on pricey pet apparel, according to Joan Volpe,
managing coordinator at the Center for Professional Studies at
New York’s  Fashion Institute of Technology . FIT sponsors a pet
apparel fashion show, where this year 14 dogs will model nearly
30 outfits, from casual sportswear to evening ensembles.  “There has been a turn to practicality,” Volpe said by e-
mail. “The seemingly frivolous items of just a few years ago
like net tutus are no longer in demand.”  Pet Food Spending  Food, which makes up the biggest slice of pet expenditures,
is the last thing that owners skimp on, according to Packaged
Facts analyst David Lummis., who is based in  New Orleans . A 2007
recall, when tainted ingredients were found in dozens of brands
of Chinese-made pet food, sent panicked owners flocking to more-
expensive suppliers. U.S. sales of pet food should reach $20.8
billion by 2016, up from $18.1 billion, Mintel estimates.  Andre Marin, a recruiter based in Arlington,  Virginia ,
hasn’t changed the brand of dog food he feeds his mutt Rupert,
who is sensitive to other foods, he said in an interview. He
doesn’t bother with fancy collars or sweaters, though.  “Rupert is part Huskie,” Marin said. “These are dog’s
dogs -- they chase deer. They’re not into the sweater thing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  