-- Douglas’s Gordon Gekko Is FBI’s Latest Insider-Trading Crusader
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-02-27T23:30:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/douglas-s-gordon-gekko-is-the-fbi-s-latest-weapon-against-insider-trading.html
     Feb. 27 (Bloomberg)--  Gordon Gekko , the character played by
actor  Michael Douglas  in the movie “ Wall Street ,” is the
newest weapon in the FBI’s arsenal to combat  insider trading ,
part of a law-enforcement initiative agents say will continue
for at least five more years.  The message from Douglas in a public service announcement
unveiled today isn’t “Greed, for lack of a better word, is
good.” In a first for the  Federal Bureau of Investigation ,
Douglas, reprising his Oscar-winning role in the 1987 Oliver
Stone  film , urges fund managers and Wall Street analysts to
avoid taking the same route to the federal penitentiary as his
character does.  “In the movie Wall Street I play Gordon Gekko, a greedy
corporate executive who cheated to profit while innocent
investors lost their savings,” the actor says on the  57-second
spot , featured on the FBI’s website and also available on
YouTube.  “The movie was fiction, but the problem is real,” Douglas
says in the announcement. “Our economy is increasingly
dependent on the success and integrity of the financial markets.
If a deal looks too good to be true, it probably is. For more
information on how you can identify  securities fraud , or to
report insider trading, contact your local FBI.”  ‘Five Years’  Douglas’s spot is the latest element of “Perfect Hedge,”
an initiative begun by the FBI  New York ’s office to combat
insider trading at hedge funds, said FBI Special Agents David
Chaves and Richard Jacobs, supervisors in the bureau’s New
York’s securities and commodities fraud squads.  The law enforcement effort was started in March 2007 by
Chaves, Jacobs and their colleagues in New York, who teamed up
with the Manhattan U.S. Attorney’s office and the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission to investigate the sources of
inside tips and those profiting from them.  The mission has met with success: at least 64 people have
been arrested by the FBI and charged by prosecutors in the
office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara , Chaves said. To
date, 59 people have been convicted at trial or pleaded guilty,
including portfolio managers, analysts and insiders at publicly-
traded companies since 2009, he said.  In a PowerPoint presentation, Chaves and Jacobs depicted
these cases as the tip of the iceberg of insider-trading on Wall
Street. They predicted their work will continue.  “I don’t want to say it’s infinite, but clearly, in five
years we think we’ll be working it,” said Chaves, who added
later, “We have cooperators set up for years to come.”  Rajaratnam, Gupta  The cases brought as a result of Perfect Hedge include the
conviction of Galleon Group LLC co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam , who
was found guilty of 14 counts of securities fraud and conspiracy
and was sentenced to 11 years in prison last year, and the
indictment of  Rajat Gupta , the former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
director accused passing tips to Rajaratnam.  Chaves said the operation was launched after cooperators
and insiders reported to them that insider trading was rampant
at hedge funds, an industry that manages $1.97 trillion in
assets, according to Hedge Fund Research Inc. in  Chicago .  Both Chaves and Jacobs say they believe that 99 percent of
fund managers are honest, and, like the FBI, want to root out
the one percent who aren’t.  “People in hedge funds want the cheats weeded out,”
Chaves said. “It’s so much like baseball players on steroids.
They would love to get rid of them.”  Fictitious Companies  Chaves said the bureau was willing to be imaginative with
 Perfect Hedge , a parallel insider-trading initiative called
“Market Integrity,” and a third called “Match Makers,” an
effort which targeted publicly-traded technology companies
employees who passed inside information while moonlighting as
expert-networking consultants.  Agents began using law enforcement techniques commonly
employed against organized crime, including surveillance of
targets and evidence gained through cooperators and informants.
They also made ground-breaking use of court-authorized wiretaps
to record crimes as they occurred, a technique first authorized
to fight the Mafia, said Douglas Leff, the assistant special
agent in charge of white-collar crime in New York.  Agents persuaded Karl Motey, an independent consultant who
pleaded guilty to crimes, to work for the FBI in a fictitious
investment firm set up by the bureau.  ‘Push the Envelope’  Motey, wearing a wear a wire for the FBI, recorded meetings
with expert networking executives and telephone consultations
with employees of technology companies like  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and
 Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  as they passed inside information to
him.  “We’re trying to push the envelope on a daily basis,”
said Diego Rodriguez, head of the FBI New York’s criminal
division who supervises units including securities and
commodities fraud squad “It’s not like we’ve never done it
before, but it’s now a different target set.”  Chaves and Jacobs said that as innovative techniques were
revealed in court testimony from trials, the bureau has had to
continually revamp its approach.  For instance, when fund managers learned the FBI was
listening in on their office calls, they moved to using
disposable phones for their crimes and began passing inside
information using Skype Technologies SA, Facebook Inc. and
Twitter Inc., Chaves said. The FBI has kept abreast by detecting
encrypted inside information passed on social network sites, he
said.  Undercover Video  In addition to Douglas’s spot, the FBI today revealed an
excerpt of an  undercover surveillance video  made by FBI agents
in the case of Yonnie Sebbag, a California man who pleaded
guilty in New York to selling confidential  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) 
information and was sentenced to 27 months in prison.  In the case, Sebbag sent letters in March 2010 to at least
33 investment companies, including hedge funds, offering to sell
inside information about Burbank, California-based Disney.  “We’re very happy to say that no one other than the FBI
responded to this man,” Chaves said.  The FBI sent an undercover agent posing as a corrupt  fund
manager  who paid Sebbag for the nonpublic Disney documents which
Sebbag later provided.  “I give you the information and you make the trades,”
Sebbag told the undercover agent in the video recording. He said
he could provide “any informations that comes to executives
like CEO, any information.”  “What motivates me is money,” Sebbag told the agent. “I
want no jail time, thank you,” he added, and laughed while
folding his hands into a praying position.  Confused With SEC  Chaves said agents perceived there wasn’t much public
recognition of the FBI’s role in bringing these cases. Some news
accounts confused the SEC, which has a civil enforcement role,
with the bureau’s criminal law enforcement powers, such as
raiding a hedge fund or placing handcuffs on suspects.  “At one point it was reported that the SEC was arresting
people,” Chaves said.  Douglas told agents that decades after the movie that won
him an Oscar for best actor, he’s frequently stopped and greeted
as a hero and not a Wall Street villain.  Douglas said he was “startled over the positive response
he received as Gordon Gekko,” Chaves said. He quoted Douglas
saying, “I don’t know what’s wrong with Wall Street but I would
be approached all the time, people would ‘high-five’ me or shake
my hand for being this terrible man who stole people’s money.
Where are the values? The culture has to change.”  Douglas reprised the character in the 2010 sequel, “ Wall
Street: Money Never Sleeps. ”  ‘Staying Away’  Chaves said he hopes the Douglas spot will help deter
others. Already, reports from cooperators on Wall Street
indicate that the spate of insider-trading prosecutions brought
since October 2009 has been a deterrent, he said.  “We’re hearing more and more how people are staying away
from inside information,” Chaves said. “We’re still developing
cases so there are clearly people out there still breaking the
law.”  A Bloomberg story about Perfect Hedge in December had
cooperators scrambling to contact their FBI handlers, Chaves
said.  “After that story, our cooperators were reporting to us
that there were people who were deathly afraid that they were
going to get that knock on the door from us,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  