-- Draghi May Have Shelved ECB’s Bond-Purchasing Program as Loans Fuel Rally
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-02-27T15:25:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/draghi-may-have-shelved-ecb-s-bond-purchasing-program-as-loans-fuel-rally.html
European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  may have shelved the bank’s controversial bond-
purchase program.  The Frankfurt-based ECB said today it hasn’t bought any
 government bonds  for two straight weeks, the first pause since
August. The purchases have dwindled since the ECB funneled a
record 489 billion euros ($655 billion) of three-year loans into
the banking system in December, fueling a bond-market rally and
reducing the need to intervene with its Securities Markets
Program.  “It looks like Draghi is mothballing the SMP,” said
 Christian Schulz , a former ECB economist now working for
Berenberg Bank in  London . “It has become less relevant in light
of the massive loans to banks.”  Banks may be using some of the cheap cash to purchase
sovereign debt, driving down bond yields and thus borrowing
costs for debt-strapped euro-area governments. The suspension of
the purchase program would remove a source of conflict on the
ECB council that has smoldered since it began in May 2010,
precipitating the resignations of German policy makers Axel Weber and  Juergen Stark .  The ECB will lend banks another 470 billion euros in a
second offering of three-year funds this week, according to the
median of 28 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. The loans are
allotted at 11:15 a.m. on Feb. 29. The interest rate is
determined by the ECB’s  benchmark , which is currently at a
record low of 1 percent.  ‘Subcontracting’  “The ECB is basically subcontracting the buying of
government debt to the banks,” said  Thomas Mayer , chief
economist of Deutsche Bank AG in  Frankfurt .  Italian two-year notes surged today, pushing the yield to
the least in almost 11 months, as borrowing costs fell at a sale
of bills. Spanish two-year notes gained for an eighth day, their
longest winning streak since December.  The ECB, which says its bond purchases are aimed solely at
smoothing transmission of its  interest rates  on markets, has so
far bought 219.5 billion euros of assets. In the three weeks
before its buying ground to a halt, the ECB spent just 246
million euros. It will take seven-day term deposits tomorrow to
offset the extra  liquidity  created, a practice it employs to
ensure the purchases don’t fuel inflation.  The central bank is unlikely to declare the purchase
program formally over, Schulz said. Draghi said last week the
bank needs to be “careful” about announcing an end to its bond
purchases as “markets are still vulnerable.”  The ECB resumed the program in August, ending a four-month
hiatus after the sovereign debt crisis escalated and drove up
yields in Italy and  Spain .  The purchases have split its policy makers, some of whom
say they blur the line between monetary and fiscal policy.
 Germany ’s Bundesbank voted against reviving the program in
August and Stark resigned from the Executive Board at the end of
2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  