-- Draghi Expects Banks to Boost Credit Supply as Euro Confidence Increases
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-02-27T01:57:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/draghi-expects-banks-to-boost-credit-supply-as-euro-now-in-a-safer-place-.html
European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  said he expects banks to increase credit supply
after its next three-year operation as confidence returns to
financial markets, making the currency a “safer place.”  While banks used an initial offering of three-year loans
“to repurchase their bonds coming due in the first quarter of
this year,” banks will now be “more inclined to use this money
-- which was our primary expectation really -- to expand credit
into the real economy,” Draghi said after a meeting of G-20
finance officials in Mexico City.  The Frankfurt-based central bank is flooding the market
with cheap money to head off a credit crunch, encourage lending
to companies and consumers and spur demand for unsecured bank
debt. Financial institutions will seek 470 billion euros ($633
billion) in a second round of unlimited three-year funds on Feb.
29, approaching the 489 billion euro take-up at the first such
operation in December, according to the median estimate of 28
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “There is a return of confidence of the overall financial
markets in the euro,” Draghi said. “The general sense is that
the euro is now a safer place than it was at the time of the
Cannes summit” of G-20 officials in November, he said.  Bloomberg’s Europe Banks and Financial Services  Index (BEBANKS)  has
rallied 18 percent this year, yields on debt of European
sovereigns and banks have tumbled and the market for senior
unsecured debt has reopened. Draghi said there are currently no
signs that providing “abundant liquidity” is creating risks
for the economy.  Reducing Instability  The three-year tender “seems to have contributed to
dramatically reduce the financial instability that was still
pervasive until year-end,” Draghi said. “But I would be
cautious on giving all the credit to this monetary policy
measure because equal if not greater credit should be given to
the reforms that have been undertaken in a variety of
governments of critical countries.”  Spain ’s government cut firing costs, changed wage-
bargaining laws and decided that people on jobless benefits will
have to offer community service in an overhaul of labor rules
that went into effect immediately. Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  has embarked on an overhaul of the pension system and
measures to boost growth and fight tax evasion.  The economy of the 17-nation euro region will shrink 0.3
percent in 2012, with Italy and Spain facing sudden crunches as
they battle to escape the debt crisis, the European Commission
said last week, abandoning a November forecast of 0.5 percent
growth. At the same time, a better-than-predicted performance in
Germany and  France  helped mitigate a contraction in the fourth
quarter, the region’s first since 2009.  ‘Tentative Stabilization’  “We can see a tentative stabilization at low levels of
activity but also with some signs, the very first signs of some
improvements here and there,” Draghi said. “That’s for the
average of the euro area. In some countries there will be a mild
or more-than-mild recession, but for the average of the euro
area the situation seems to be stabilizing.”  European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner
 Olli Rehn  said he expects the economies of the euro region and
the EU-27 to return to growth “in the second half” of 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Mexico City at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  