-- EU Cutting Hungarian Funds Complicates IMF-EU Bailout Talks, Moody’s Says
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-02-27T11:09:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/ec-cut-of-hungary-funds-complicates-imf-eu-talks-moody-s-says.html
A European Union plan to cut
 Hungary ’s cohesion funds from 2013 is “credit negative” and
may hamper talks on an “urgent”  International Monetary Fund -
led loan, Moody’s Investors Service said.  The European Commission, the EU’s executive, on Feb. 22
proposed to suspend 495 million euros ($665 million) in
development subsidies to press Hungary to narrow its budget
deficit. The commission has said the decision is linked to the
nation’s fiscal policy and not to recent infringement
proceedings against the government in three areas including
central-bank independence which have blocked talks on a loan.  The proposal comes “as the country is in the midst of
engaging with the EU and the IMF on an urgent external financial
support package,” London-based Moody’s analyst Alpona Banerji
said in a report today. “Although the EC stated that” this is
“separate from the IMF/EU support discussions, it accentuates
nervous investor perceptions and adds to domestic political
debate, adding difficulty to those talks.”  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  is trying to revive bailout
talks with the EU and the IMF, which he requested in November
after the forint fell to a record against the euro and as rating
companies including Moody’s cut Hungary’s sovereign credit grade
to junk. Talks broke down in December after the EU and the IMF
said a new law may undermine central bank independence.  Forint Weakens  The forint weakened 0.4 percent against the euro today to
292.32 at 11:20 a.m. in Budapest. The currency rallied 7.8
percent this year against the euro, the most in the world after
Orban on Jan. 5 pledged to come to a “quick” agreement with
lenders. The forint fell 16 percent in the second half of last
year, the biggest decline in that period.  The cut in Hungary’s cohesion funding, affecting 29 percent
of the country’s EU development subsidies, followed a commission
report last month that said Orban’s government failed to curb
the  budget deficit  in a sustainable way.  Since coming to power in 2010, Orban has effectively
nationalized $14 billion of private pension funds and levied
extraordinary taxes on energy, financial, retail and
telecommunication companies to plug budget holes from tax cuts.  The Cabinet has argued that its planned multiyear spending
cuts will yield the necessary savings to end the reliance on
one-time revenue measures to meet deficit goals. The government
targets a  shortfall  of 2.5 percent of gross domestic product
this year and 2.2 percent in 2013.  ‘Significant Risks’  Meeting budget targets has “significant risks, given the
combination of a poor growth outlook, higher inflation and the
fragility of the funding markets affecting the exchange rate and
cost of funds,” Banerji said. “The absence of one third of
what Hungary expected in cohesion funds will exacerbate the
country’s challenge in meeting deficit targets and delay
investment needed for growth, which is credit negative.”  The suspension of Hungary’s cohesion funds is “unlikely”
while putting pressure on Orban to reach an agreement with
international lenders is “probably welcome at this point,”
Pasquale Diana and Jaroslaw Strzalkowski, London-based
economists at Morgan Stanley, said in an e-mailed report today.  “This is because any such program will likely include
conditionality on Hungary’s fiscal policy, including sustainable
deficit cuts,” Diana and Strzalkowski said. “We think that
such pressure from the EC is welcome at a time when benign
market trends could potentially lull the authorities into a
false sense of security and conclude that a package may not be
needed after all.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Zoltan Simon at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net  