-- ECB’s Nowotny Says Bond Program on Hold, No Need to Activate It
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   O l i v e r   J o y
-- 2012-02-27T21:42:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/ecb-s-nowotny-says-bond-program-on-hold-no-need-to-activate-it.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Ewald Nowotny said the ECB’s government bond
purchase program has been shelved for the time being.  “This program is more or less on hold,” Nowotny said
today in  London . He said there is a “clear policy line” of
keeping it “in reserve” while “there is not an intention of
using it.”  The Frankfurt-based ECB said today it hasn’t bought any
 government bonds  for two straight weeks, the first pause since
August. The purchases have dwindled since the ECB funneled a
record 489 billion euros ($655 billion) of three-year loans into
the banking system in December, fueling a bond-market rally and
reducing the need to intervene with its Securities Markets
Program.  “It was never intended to be a permanent program,” and
while “it was a success,” he does “not see a need to activate
it,” Nowotny said.  The ECB resumed the program in August, ending a four-month
hiatus after the sovereign debt crisis escalated and drove up
yields in Italy and  Spain .  The ECB will lend banks another 470 billion euros in a
second offering of three-year funds this week, according to the
median of 28 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. The loans are
allotted at 11:15 a.m. on Feb. 29. The  interest rate  is
determined by the ECB’s  benchmark , which is currently at a
record low of 1 percent.  Nowotny also said he wants to “warn against the idea”
that very long-term loans will become “a regular feature” of
ECB policy.  “If number one was a success and number two was a success,
that doesn’t mean there has to be number three,” Nowotny said,
adding that whenever the ECB introduces a new measure, “we
discuss how to end it, the exit strategy.” He said “there are
strategies” on how to unwind the longer-term loans, without
elaborating.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
Oliver Joy in London at 
 ojoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  