-- Hedge Fund Clients Say Industry Assets to Reach $2.1 Trillion
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-02-27T11:06:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/hedge-fund-clients-say-industry-assets-to-reach-2-1-trillion.html
Global hedge-fund assets may rise 12
percent to $2.13 trillion by year-end as “challenging” market
conditions prompt investors to stick with the industry even
after many funds suffered losses in 2011, according to a survey
by Credit Suisse Group AG.  The increase in assets is expected to come from positive
 investment performance  and net inflows, the Zurich-based bank
said in a statement today. Credit Suisse’s findings are based on
a survey of more than 600 clients with about $1.04 trillion
invested in hedge funds.  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis and concerns about slowing
economic growth in the U.S. caused hedge funds to  lose  5.2
percent on average in 2011, the second-worst annual return since
Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc. began tracking industry
data in 1990. The performance hasn’t scared off pension funds
and other investors, who still say hedge funds can provide
protection from wide market swings, Credit Suisse said.  “Institutional investors remain positive on hedge funds
and on the outlook for further industry growth,” Robert
Leonard,  Credit Suisse’s (CSGN)  global head of hedge fund capital
services, said in the statement. “They continue to look to
hedge funds to generate uncorrelated returns and to reduce
overall volatility within their portfolios.”  Last year’s performance has prompted investors to reduce
their expectations for hedge funds, with clients predicting that
funds on average will gain 8.6 percent in 2012. Respondents to
the same survey released by Credit Suisse a year ago estimated
hedge funds would rise 11 percent in 2011. In the year-ago
survey, investors also erroneously predicted that hedge fund
assets would rise to $2.3 trillion by the end of 2011.  Hedge funds investing in  Asia  and  emerging markets  are the
most appealing to investors, according to this year’s survey.  So-called crowded trades, in which a number of  hedge funds 
make similar investments, were cited as one of the biggest risks
to the industry, Credit Suisse said. Other top concerns included
the possibility of a sovereign default and counterparty risk,
the survey found.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in 東京 at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  