-- Medley’s Indonesia Cars Bet Led to FBI, Legal Saga
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2012-03-07T04:31:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/medley-shuns-indonesian-courts-in-efforts-to-recover-20-million-auto-bet.html
(Corrects story published on Feb. 27 to say Medley
Opportunity Fund made the investment, not Medley Capital Corp.,
in first paragraph. Adds Medley relationship in seventh
paragraph.)  Medley Opportunity Fund Ltd.’s $20
million bet on an auto-financing business in  Indonesia  soured
when the money vanished in 2007. Five years later, the fund
managed by New York-based Medley Capital LLC is still trying to
find a way to recover its stake, while avoiding Indonesian
courts.  The fund’s former Indonesian partners, including Robert
Soeharsono, conspired to commit fraud and came up with “far-
fetched excuses” for not returning the money, Andrew Fentress,
a managing partner at Medley Capital, said in a lawsuit filed in
Singapore. A closed hearing is scheduled for March 1.  The Medley fund, which has turned to the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation , the U.S. Ambassador, Indonesian police, and
courts in the U.K. and now Singapore for help, hasn’t sued in
 Indonesia (IDRAGDP) , where all 14 defendants are based. While  Southeast
Asia ’s largest economy’s  credit rating  returned to investment
grade in recent weeks, for the first time since 1998, investors
avoid local courts.  “The interest to invest in Indonesia is certainly
increasing but the main hesitancy is there’s no legal certainty
and trust in the courts,” said Frans Winarta, a Jakarta-based
lawyer who advised Medley Capital in 2008. “Medley’s case in
choosing to use legal systems outside of Indonesia demonstrates
this.”  Indonesia is ranked 100th out of 183 nations on
Transparency International’s corruption perception  index , at the
same level as Gabon and Djibouti. President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono has said Indonesia needs at least 15 years before it
can achieve a government as clean as  Singapore ’s or  Hong Kong ’s,
rated 5th and 12th respectively on the corruption index.  Transparency Perceptions  “Foreign investors are generally advised to avoid local
courts as much as possible because of a perceived lack of
transparency in judicial decision-making,” said Jim Castle, a
former president of the American Indonesia Chamber of Commerce
who has lived in Indonesia since 1977.  Fentress and Medley Capital didn’t respond to four e-mails
or return two phone calls seeking comment. Medley Capital LLC is
an affiliate of MCC Advisors LLC, the investment manager to
Medley Capital Corp.  In June 2007, the Medley Opportunity Fund agreed to invest
about $20 million in Soeharsono’s PT Artha Persada Finance for
the “sole purpose” of providing loans for  Honda Motor Co. (7267) 
vehicles sold in Indonesia, according to the lawsuit.  Hillside Apex Fund Ltd (THAHIAI) . invested $20 million about the same
time with the same intent, Medley Opportunity Fund said in its
complaint. Hillside was managed by Thames River Capital, which
has been acquired by London-based  F&C Asset Management Plc. (FCAM)   ‘Not Conducive’  Three months later, the Medley fund sought the return of
its investment after Artha Persada’s president Soeharsono said
Indonesia’s economic climate wasn’t conducive for the auto-
financing business, according to the complaint.  Instead, Soeharsono, his sister Effy, her husband Alfons Irawan and Ang Hoey Tiong of auto dealer PT Istana Mobil
Surabaya Indah, who’s married to a Soeharsono relative, used
family-run businesses to unlawfully divert the money to buy
shares in oil drilling firm  PT Mitra International Resources (MIRA) ,
Fentress said in his filing. Hillside and Mitra aren’t parties
to the lawsuit.  “The claim is baseless and wholly without merit,” said
Siraj Omar, a lawyer who represents Artha Persada, the
Soeharsonos, Irawan, Ang and PT Indo Dana Persada.  Apart from the legal wrangle with the Indonesians, Medley
Capital LLC and three of its principals were sued Feb. 2 in  New
York  by Fintan Partners LLC. The lawsuit was dropped on Feb. 10,
with no reason given.  Asset Transfer  Fintan, an investor in Medley Opportunity Fund, accused
Medley Capital LLC’s principals, including Fentress, of self-
dealing and profiting from a transfer of $76.3 million of
income-generating assets out of the fund. The transfer to Medley
Capital Corp., which later sold shares in an initial public
offering, reduced the value of Fintan’s investment, according to
the complaint.  Robert Soeharsono denies any wrongdoing.  Medley Opportunity Fund didn’t place any restrictions on
the interim use of the money and it knew about the investment in
Mitra, which was considered an investment-grade stock at that
time, Robert Soeharsono said in court documents.  Mitra  last traded  in June at 160 rupiah, down 84 percent
from its peak of 1,010 rupiah in September 2008.  Artha Persada, and the others represented by Omar, sought
in a Jan. 4 filing to have a freezing order on their assets
lifted by the Singapore High Court. The defendants claim the
court lacks the jurisdiction to issue the order and say the
lawsuit wasn’t properly served. The fund hasn’t served the
lawsuit on the other 8 defendants, according to court papers.  The six including the Soeharsonos are also represented by
 Davinder Singh , chief executive officer of Drew & Napier LLC.  ‘Settlement Pressure’  Medley Opportunity Fund served the freezing order on banks
including HSBC Plc and then “kept quiet, content that this
would pressure the defendants into coming to a settlement,”
they said in court papers. The defendants have bank accounts
with HSBC, Standard Chartered Plc and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  in
Singapore, according to the complaint.  The fund sought other means in pursuit of its money before
turning to Singapore’s courts in September. Fentress reached out
to the Soeharsono siblings, requesting the return of the
investment.  They came up with “inconsistent and far-fetched excuses,
the most notable of which was that the invested amount was
frozen in the Bank Century account due to an embezzlement
scandal at the bank,” Fentress said in his court filing. “I
did not believe them.”  Police Probe  Rebuffed, Fentress turned to lawyers at  Sidley Austin LLP (1119L) 
in Singapore and Jakarta-based Frans Winarta & Partners to
recover the money. The fund also filed complaints with
Indonesian police in 2009 against Artha Persada Finance, the
Soeharsonos, Irawan and Ang, accusing them of  money laundering 
and fraud.  Robert Soeharsono said in his filing the police probe was
“exhaustive” and concluded no criminal acts were committed.  The Medley fund contacted the FBI bureau in New York in an
attempt to pursue criminal investigations against the
Soeharsonos, Irawan and Ang, leading to a probe, according to
the lawsuit.  Peter Donald, a spokesman for the FBI in New York, declined
to comment.  Fentress and Bryan Boches, a Medley Capital LLC managing
director, also met with then U.S. Ambassador to Indonesia
Cameron R. Hume in a bid to enlist the help of the U.S.
government in resolving the dispute, Fentress said in court
papers.  “The embassy regularly works with U.S. companies that are
seeking to raise issues with the Indonesian government,” said
Troy Pederson, spokesman for the U.S. Embassy in Jakarta,
declining to comment specifically on Medley’s case.  U.K. Settlement  In August 2009, both the Medley fund and Hillside sued in
the U.K. seeking the return of a total of $40 million, claiming
Artha Persada breached terms of their agreements. They settled
the dispute out of court in May 2010.  Medley Opportunity Fund said it followed up with the
Singapore lawsuit because it discovered the fraud after the
settlement.  By suing in Singapore, the Medley fund breached the
agreement and “deliberately concealed” that the pact contained
a jurisdiction clause in favor of English courts, Soeharsono
said in his filing.  “We’re waiting for our day in court,” Soeharsono’s lawyer
Omar said.  The case is Medley Opportunity Fund Ltd v PT Artha Persada
Finance & Ors S654/2011 in the Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  