-- EFG-Hermes Offers Equity Swaps Linked to Iraqi Securities as Market Gains
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-02-27T12:40:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/efg-hermes-offers-equity-swaps-linked-to-iraqi-securities-as-market-gains.html
EFG-Hermes Holding SAE (HRHO) , the biggest
publicly traded Arab investment bank, started offering an
equity-swap product linked to Iraqi securities, potentially
allowing investors to benefit from the nation’s recovery from
decades of war and sanctions.  “Despite the prevailing risk-averse nature of investment
in the  Middle East  and North Africa region, we have seen a high
level of demand for access to this new frontier market,” said
 Julian Bruce , the Dubai-based director of institutional sales
trading at EFG-Hermes. The product will remove “both the
domestic Iraqi broker counter-party risk and the labor-intensive
procedures involved in domestic execution.”  Almost a decade after a U.S.-led invasion toppled dictator
Saddam Hussein, Iraq’s economy is set to expand 12.6 percent in
2012, the fastest among MENA countries, according to the
 International Monetary Fund . Regional markets were hurt last
year amid uprisings that ousted leaders in Egypt, Libya and
Tunisia and investor concern  Europe ’s debt crisis may spread.  “The idea of investing in Iraq is appealing depending on
the price one needs to pay for an opportunity, the reliability
of the platform that you will invest through and the robustness
of the investment propositions,” said  Yazan Abdeen , a Dubai-
based Middle East and North Africa fund manager who helps
oversee $250 million at ING Investment Management (Dubai) Ltd.
“Generally, it’s a market that should be interesting.”  Hedging Risk  The  Iraq Stock Exchange ’s ISX Index advanced 17 percent
last year, according to  data on the bourse’s website . The  MSCI
Emerging Europe, Middle East and Africa Index  dropped 23 percent
in the period. The  Iraq  index, comprising 87 companies, had a
market value of 4,930 billion Iraqi dinars ($4.2 billion) at the
end of 2011. Foreign investors bought shares valued at $147
million last year compared with $52 million in 2010.  The ISX index fell 0.2 percent to 123.16 today, according
to the bourse’s  website.   Equity swaps are an exchange of cash flows between two
parties that allows each party to diversify its income, while
still holding its original assets. They also allow large
institutions to hedge specific assets or positions in their
portfolios.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  