-- Elpida Files for Protection in Biggest Japanese Bankruptcy for Two Years
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-02-27T10:29:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/elpida-files-for-bankruptcy-protection-set-to-hold-press-conference-today.html
Elpida (6665)  Memory Inc., the last
Japanese maker of computer-memory chips, filed for the nation’s
biggest bankruptcy in two years after semiconductor prices
plunged and it failed to win a second government bailout.  Elpida, unprofitable in each of the past five quarters, had
 liabilities  of 448 billion yen ($5.5 billion), according to a
filing with Japan’s finance ministry today. The maker of dynamic
random access memory, or DRAM, chips will be delisted from the
Tokyo Stock Exchange on March 28.  The chipmaker’s troubles, exacerbated by prices falling 85
percent and a stronger yen, may strengthen Taiwanese rivals and
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , whose semiconductor business is
profitable after diversifying into products for tablets and
smartphones.  Japan ’s government bailed out the  company  in 2009,
and its decision to let it go bankrupt without further support
is surprising, said Yoshihiro Nakatani, a Tokyo-based  fund
manager  at Asahi Life Asset Management Co.  “The impact from the worsening DRAM market and the
stronger yen was big on Elpida,” Nakatani said. “The
government should have known that this business was risky when
it decided to support the company in 2009.”  Bond Defaults  The company’s six bonds defaulted as they came due for
redemption today, Elpida said in a statement. The face value of
the bonds totals 138 billion yen, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Elpida’s 0.7 percent convertible  notes  due August 2016 fell
0.3 percent to 75 yen per 100 face value today, according to
prices from the  Tokyo  Stock Exchange.  The 2.29 percent bonds due in December were traded at 25
yen and 30 yen after the report, according to BNP Paribas SA.
The bond was 75.6 yen on Feb. 24, up from 72.9 the previous day,
according to Japan Securities Dealers Association prices.  “The focus in the  bond market  is the recovery rate,”
Hisayoshi Nogawa, Tokyo-based structured credit strategist at
the French bank, said in a telephone interview today.  Elpida shares rose 0.6 percent to 334 yen in Tokyo today
before the announcement. The shares were suspended for trading
after the market closed. The stock has declined 6.7 percent this
year after slumping 62 percent last year.  Apple Supplier  The supplier to companies, including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , said
earlier this month it saw “uncertainty” over remaining in
business because it might not have the necessary financing.
Elpida hadn’t been able to reach a deal with the trade ministry,
the  Development Bank of Japan  and its main lenders over
financing for 92 billion yen in bonds and loans due by April,
the Tokyo-based company said Feb. 14.  Bankruptcy for Elpida would help Taiwanese rivals such as
 Nanya Technology Corp. (2408) , according to Andy Wei, who helps manage
$80 billion at Eastspring Investments, the  Asia  asset management
unit for Prudential Plc.  “In the short term, this may be positive news for Taiwan
DRAM companies as there would be a supply shortage,” Wei said.
“This will be good for the industry in the long term if the
restructuring or takeover of Elpida means better control of
capacity.”  Elpida’s bankruptcy would be the nation’s biggest since
 Japan Airlines Corp. (9205)  sought protection in January 2010 with 2.32
trillion yen in liabilities, according to data from Tokyo Shoko
Research. Elpida employed 5,898 people as of March 31, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  DRAM Prices  The company got 140 billion yen in financial aid and loans
from the government and banks in 2009 after falling chip prices
caused it to post a record loss.  Elpida’s trouble indicates the difficulty Japanese
companies have in competing with  South Korea ’s Samsung, which
had 7.34 trillion won ($6.5 billion) in operating profit from
selling chips last year. Chip prices had become as cheap as a
“rice ball,” Elpida Chief Executive Officer Yukio Sakamoto
said last year.  DRAM prices plunged to a record low last year after PC
shipments missed analyst forecasts and sales of Apple’s iPad
surged. The price of the benchmark DDR3 2-gigabit DRAM declined
to a record 71 cents in November, compared with $4.85 on Sept. 1,
2010, amid slowing personal-computer sales, according to
DRAMeXchange, Asia’s biggest spot market for the chips.  Samsung, Hynix  The U.S. personal-computer market declined for the first
time in a decade last year as consumers bought more smartphones
and tablets, which use 75 percent fewer of the chips in a
typical laptop.  As the faltering global economy and floods in Thailand curb
PC production, some DRAM manufacturers may not have enough money
to mimic Samsung’s diversification, analysts said.  Samsung boosted its profits by producing specialty chips
for smartphones, tablet computers and servers. Elpida,  Hynix
Semiconductor Inc. (000660)  and other makers of DRAM chips lost a
combined $14 billion in the past three years, according to
Bloomberg calculations.  The  DRAM (DRAM84)  chip industry may be pushed into an oligopoly by
an Elpida failure, Taipei-based DRAMeXchange said in a statement
Feb. 15. Oligopoly is a system in which a small number of
companies control the total market supply of a specific product.
In an oligopoly, price competition is essentially nonexistent.  NEC, Hitachi  DRAM is the most common chip in computers. Samsung
controlled 45 percent of the market by value in the third
quarter, according to Englewood, Colorado-based IHS Inc.’s
iSuppli. Hynix held a 22 percent share and Elpida 12 percent.  Japan Credit Rating Agency, the only risk assessor to grade
Elpida, cut its rating on the chipmaker to BBB-, the lowest
investment level, from BBB.  The company’s  cash and savings  fell to about 50 billion yen
to 60 billion yen as of Feb. 2, from 97.4 billion yen in
December, Sakamoto said.  The company faced a deadline to redeem 15 billion yen in
bonds on March 22 and repay about 77 billion yen in loans from
lenders on April 2, according to its filings.  Elpida was formed through the 1999 merger of  NEC Corp. (6701) ’s
and Hitachi Ltd.’s memory businesses. Fujitsu Ltd. abandoned the
business that year, and Toshiba Corp. announced its withdrawal
in 2001 to focus more on making NAND flash memory chips, which
are used in tablet computers and smartphones.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  