-- Elpida Falls as Lack of Smartphone Strategy Spurs Japan Bankruptcy Filing
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-02-28T13:50:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/elpida-s-bankruptcy-filing-comes-after-failure-to-follow-smartphone-money.html
Elpida Memory Inc. (6665)  tumbled the most
in more than seven years in Tokyo trading after a failure to
embrace the global consumer shift from computers to smartphones
and tablets pushed the chipmaker into filing for bankruptcy.  The last Japanese maker of computer-memory chips, which
lost money for five straight quarters, sought protection at the
Tokyo District Court yesterday with  liabilities  of 448 billion
yen ($5.5 billion), according to a filing with Japan’s finance
ministry. Elpida fell by its daily-limit 80 yen, or 24 percent,
to 254 yen at the close of trading today. The shares will be
delisted from the Tokyo Stock Exchange on March 28.  Elpida’s woes  came as the Tokyo-based company failed to
mimic  South Korea ’s Samsung Electronics Co. in diversifying into
specialty memory needed in mobile handheld devices such as  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad and iPhone. Tablet-computer sales more than doubled
and smartphone demand surged 47 percent in the last quarter,
while personal-computer shipments declined.  “There was a generational change from PCs to smartphones,
and Elpida failed to respond to that with the right
technological shift,” said Kim Hyung Sik, a Seoul-based analyst
at Taurus Investment Securities Co. “Mobile DRAM is where the
money is, and Samsung and other Korean companies control more
than 70 percent of that market. Elpida couldn’t hold out
anymore.”  Sell offers on Elpida shares outnumbered bids about 1,500-
to-1 earlier today, prompting no trade in the stock. The company
has lost 29 percent of its value this year, adding to a 62
percent erosion last year.  Samsung, Hynix Gain  Elpida’s rivals in South Korea advanced while Japanese
chipmakers  Advantest Corp. (6857)  and Renesas Electronics Corp. fell.  Samsung rose 1.2 percent to 1.185 million won in  Seoul  and
 Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660)  surged 6.8 percent to 29,850 won.
 Micron Technology Inc. (MU) , the Boise, Idaho-based chipmaker that
will probably emerge as the top winner from Elpida’s bankruptcy
filing, rose 7.7 percent to $8.56 in  New York  yesterday.  Elpida plans to hold a meeting for creditors tomorrow,
 Toppan Printing Co. (7911) , which supplies photomasks to the chipmaker,
said in a statement today. Toppan may not be able to collect the
4.4 billion yen in accounts receivable from Elpida, the printing
company said.  Global tablet shipments rose to a record 26.8 million units
in the last three months of 2011, Boston-based  Strategy
Analytics  said in a report last month. PC shipments declined 1.4
percent in the fourth quarter to 92.2 million units, according
to Gartner Inc.  Sales of handsets that use computer-like processors and can
handle business e-mail and streaming video increased 47 percent
to 149 million units, according to Stamford, Connecticut-based
Gartner. Smartphones and tablets use 75 percent fewer of the
DRAM chips inside a typical laptop.  Smartphones, Tablets  Samsung boosted its profits by producing specialty chips
for smartphones, tablet computers and servers. The Suwon, South
Korea-based company had 7.34 trillion won ($6.5 billion) in
operating profit from selling chips last year.  Elpida, Hynix and other makers of DRAM chips lost a
combined $14 billion in the past three years, according to
Bloomberg calculations.  “Elpida’s bankruptcy filing increases the chances and
potential speed for consolidation,” said  Mark Newman , a Hong
Kong-based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. Taiwanese
chipmakers “are all suffering the same fate,” he said.  Troubles at Elpida were exacerbated by DRAM prices falling
85 percent and a stronger yen that cuts overseas sales when
repatriated.  Japan ’s government and banks bailed out the  company 
in 2009 with 140 billion yen in financial aid and loans.  “We didn’t hear detailed proposals from potential
partners,” Chief Executive Officer Yukio Sakamoto said
yesterday. “We had expected to hear various offers.”  Japan’s Strengths  Elpida’s filing shows that government assistance doesn’t
guarantee success, said Kaname Tajima, head of the ruling
 Democratic Party  of Japan’s industry team.  “What doesn’t work in global competition doesn’t work even
with the help of state funds,” Tajima said in an interview in
Tokyo today. “We must discern Japan’s strength and learn
lessons from the failure.”  Japan’s chief cabinet secretary, Osamu Fujimura, said “the
situation is different” from three years ago because of the
strong yen, Thailand flooding that disrupted production and
falling demand for DRAM.  “It was an appropriate decision at the time to give
financial assistance,” Fujimura said today. “There have been
sharp changes in the business environment.”  The bankruptcy may cost taxpayers as much as 28 billion
yen, said  Yukio Edano , the trade minister.  Bonds Plunge  Elpida said it defaulted on six bonds as they came due for
redemption yesterday, according to a company statement. The face
value of the bonds totaled 138 billion yen, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Elpida’s 0.5 percent convertible notes due in October 2015
plunged to 15 per 100 face value as of 7:56 p.m. in  Tokyo ,
according to Citigroup Inc. prices. The company’s 0.7 percent
convertible  notes  due August 2016 fell to 18 per 100 face value,
according to prices from the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  The supplier to companies such as Apple said earlier this
month it saw “uncertainty” over remaining in business because
it might not have the necessary financing. Elpida hadn’t been
able to reach a deal with the trade ministry, the  Development
Bank of Japan  and its main lenders over financing for 92 billion
yen in bonds and loans due by April, the company said Feb. 14.  Rating Cut  Elpida’s bankruptcy would be the nation’s biggest since
 Japan Airlines Corp. (9205)  sought protection in January 2010 with 2.32
trillion yen in liabilities, according to data from Tokyo Shoko
Research. Elpida employed 5,898 people as of March 31, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company got 140 billion yen in financial aid and loans
from the government and banks in 2009 after falling chip prices
caused it to post a record loss. Chip prices had become as cheap
as a “rice ball,” Sakamoto said.  DRAM prices plunged to a record low last year after PC
shipments missed analyst forecasts and sales of Apple’s iPad
surged. The price of the benchmark DDR3 2-gigabit DRAM declined
to a record 71 cents in November, compared with $4.85 on Sept.
1, 2010, amid slowing PC sales, according to Taipei-based
DRAMeXchange,  Asia ’s biggest spot market for the chips.  The  DRAM (DRAM84)  chip industry may be pushed into an oligopoly by
an Elpida failure, DRAMeXchange said in a statement Feb. 15.
Oligopoly is a system in which a small number of companies
control the total market supply of a specific product. In an
oligopoly, price competition is essentially nonexistent.  DRAM Chip  DRAM is the most common chip in computers. Samsung
controlled 38 percent of the market by revenue last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg Industries. Hynix held a
25 percent share and Elpida 18 percent.  Elpida’s  cash and savings  fell to about 50 billion yen to
60 billion yen as of Feb. 2, from 97.4 billion yen in December,
Sakamoto said.  The company faced a deadline to redeem 15 billion yen in
bonds on March 22 and repay about 77 billion yen in loans from
lenders on April 2, according to its filings. Elpida owed 19.3
billion yen to Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings Inc., the lender
said in a statement today.  Mitsubishi UFJ Lease & Finance Co. and IBJ Leasing Co. may
lose a combined 17.5 billion yen, according to statements by the
two companies.  Elpida was formed through the 1999 merger of  NEC Corp. (6701) ’s
and Hitachi Ltd.’s memory businesses. Fujitsu Ltd. abandoned the
business that year, and Toshiba Corp. announced its withdrawal
in 2001 to focus more on making NAND flash memory chips, which
are used in tablet computers and smartphones.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  