-- Emerging-Market Stocks Slide as G-20 Rebuffs Europe Aid
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2012-02-27T22:21:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/emerging-market-stocks-slide-as-g-20-rebuffs-europe-aid.html
Emerging-market stocks fell from
near a seven-month high as the Group of 20 nations declined to
boost international resources to aid the euro area, increasing
concern that Europe’s crisis will slow the global economy.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  slid 1 percent to 1,056.51
at the close in New York, after ending last week at the highest
since Aug. 4. The decline was the biggest since Feb. 10.  Turkiye
Halk Bankasi AS (HALKB)  retreated 2.5 percent in Istanbul and  China
Construction Bank Corp. (939)  dropped for a third day in  Hong Kong  as
banks paced declines in emerging-market stocks. Brazil’s  Bovespa (IBOV) 
fell for the third time in four days and Mexico’s benchmark
gauge fell for a second day.  Germany’s lower house of parliament approved a second euro-
region Greek bailout package, allowing German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and others to shift their focus on whether to bolster the
region’s bailout firewall. Finance ministers from the G-20
yesterday fended off calls for assistance pending an increase in
the euro area’s own backstop. International Monetary Fund
Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said the world economy is
“not out of the danger zone,” citing the risks of rising  oil
prices  and financial system fragility.  “People are being reminded that this is going to be a
long, drawn-out, painful affair in terms of getting  Europe 
repaired,”  Nick Chamie , head of emerging markets at  RBC Capital
Markets  in Toronto, said by phone. The G-20’s decision “acted
as a dampener on some of the enthusiasm and the risk appetite
globally, and that’s weighing on emerging-market assets.”  Bovespa Weakens  Brazil’s Bovespa dropped 1.1 percent as producers followed
raw material prices lower. Iron-ore producer  MMX Mineracao &
Metalicos SA (MMXM3)  slid 3.2 percent and miner  Vale SA (VALE5)  slipped 1.1
percent. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 commodities fell
0.5 percent, after advancing for seven straight days.  The  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  dropped 1.5 percent in Istanbul
after Deutsche Bank AG said shares may be overvalued.  Anglo
American Plc (AGL) , a diversified mining company, slid 1.8 percent in
Johannesburg, contributing to a 1.1 percent retreat in the
 FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH) .  The  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  tumbled 2.7 percent, the most
since Sept. 22, as oil prices near a nine-month high sparked
speculation energy costs will undermine the governments’ efforts
to curb inflation.  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , India’s largest private
lender, slid 4.7 percent, its fourth consecutive decline.  A  gauge  of emerging-market financial stocks dropped 1.2
percent.  China  Construction Bank fell 1.7 percent in Hong Kong.  China’s Shanghai Composite Index (IFB1)  rose 0.3 percent to a
three-month high on expectations the government will further
loosen monetary policy to spur growth, while the  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland shares traded in Hong Kong lost
1.3 percent.  Ruble Gains  The ruble strengthened 0.5 percent against the dollar, the
best performance among twenty five emerging-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose two basis points, or 0.02
percentage points, to 367, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  Emerging-market stocks  have gained 15 percent this year,
fueled by monetary easing in Brazil and China, as the European
Central Bank’s three-year lending program and data showing a
rebound in the U.S. jobs market eased concern that a global
slowdown could threaten developing-nation exports.  Developed-
nation stocks  have advanced 9.8 percent this year.  “You need firewalls in place to prevent contagion,”
 Andrew Milligan , who helps oversee about $262 billion as the
Edinburgh-based head of global strategy global strategy at
Standard Life Investments Ltd., said in a Bloomberg Television
interview from Hong Kong. “What we really want is that if an
event happens the markets yawn because the walls are so high and
we’re nowhere near that at all.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in  London  at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  