-- Lenders Must Be Named in Foreclosures, New Jersey Court Rules
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-02-28T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/lenders-must-be-named-in-foreclosures-n-j-supreme-court-rules.html
New Jersey ’s  Supreme Court  ruled
that the lender must be named in documents indicating a bank’s
intention to foreclose on a mortgage before a residential
property can be seized.  The case involves the foreclosure on an East Orange home
owned by Maryse and Emilio Guillaume, who received a notice of
intention to foreclose in May 2008. That notice included the
name of the mortgage servicer, America’s Servicing Co., while
omitting the name of the lender.  Credit Suisse AG (CSGN)  made the loan
and assigned it to US Bank NA.  The state high court in Trenton ruled yesterday that the
notice sent to the Guillaumes failed to comply with New Jersey’s
Fair Foreclosure Act, which requires the name and address of the
actual lender, as well as contact information for a loan
servicer. Failure to do so creates “potential for significant
prejudice” to homeowners, the court said.  “A misunderstanding about a lender’s identity could prompt
a homeowner to make a critical error at a time when he or she is
struggling to avert foreclosure,” the court said in the
opinion.  The court ruled that while a trial court judge erred on
that point in interpreting the Fair Foreclosure Act, the judge
reached the correct conclusion in ordering a default judgment
against the couple. The Guillaumes failed to demonstrate either
“excusable neglect” or a “meritorious defense” to their
foreclosure, according to the ruling.  ‘Restores Order’  The decision “restores order” to New Jersey’s real estate
market, said Mark Melodia, a lawyer for Minneapolis-based  US
Bancorp (USB) , the parent of US Bank.  “This is a reaffirmation that our Chancery Court judges
are best positioned to determine in a given case whether a
technical defect in foreclosure paperwork requires the
extraordinary step of dismissing the case -- which, like this
one, may have been pending for years before the defect was
identified -- or whether a less drastic remedy, such as sending
a new notice, is the fairer way to proceed,” Melodia, of  Reed
Smith LLP , said in a statement.  An attorney for the Guillaumes, Rebecca Schore of Legal
Services of New Jersey, said that while she was pleased with the
ruling on the need to name the actual lender in a notice of
intention to foreclose, she was disappointed that the court
didn’t require dismissal of the complaint.  “We hope that the New Jersey legislature will take this
opportunity to clarify the statute and require dismissal of a
foreclosure complaint where the plaintiff fails to comply
strictly with its requirements,” she said in an e-mail.  The Seton Hall University School of Law Center for Social
Justice and the Center for Responsible Lending filed a
supporting brief. The  Mortgage Bankers Association  of New Jersey
and New Jersey Bankers Association also filed briefs.  The case is US Bank National Association v. Guillaume,
11-068176, New Jersey  Supreme Court  (Trenton).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  