-- Energy Week Ahead: Clinton, Gates Give Chu Cover on Clean Energy
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-02-27T05:01:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/energy-week-ahead-clinton-gates-give-chu-cover-on-clean-energy.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  Chairman  Bill Gates 
and former President  Bill Clinton  are lending their political
clout to the Energy Department’s research projects just as
Republicans question federal funding of the program.  The department’s Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy
holds its “Energy Innovation Summit” today through Feb. 29 at
the National Harbor complex south of the U.S. Capitol. Energy
Secretary Steven Chu and  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Frederick Smith are among speakers at the
convention, which draws companies awarded U.S. funding for
energy research.  High-profile support from Clinton and Gates may be a poke
in the eye to House Republicans, who criticize Chu’s budget and
effectiveness. President Barack Obama is seeking a 27 percent
bump in funding for ARPA-E, to $350 million, from last year.
Since September, the department canceled six ARPA-E projects
that won a combined $14.1 million for clean-energy research,
though $3.7 million was returned to the Treasury.  “The fact that several projects are not panning out is not
surprising, given the lack of accountability or clear direction
for these dollars,” Representative  Fred Upton , a Michigan
Republican and chairman of the House Energy and Commerce
Committee, said in a Feb. 14 statement.  The research agency will award $30 million for projects to
develop lightweight fuel tanks for natural gas-powered vehicles,
the Energy Department announced Feb. 23.  Internet Model  ARPA-E, modeled after a Defense Department program that
developed the Internet, puts seed money behind potentially
revolutionary energy projects. By nature, some will fail, say
program backers. Breakthroughs may reduce dependence on foreign
oil, reduce  carbon emissions  and keep the U.S. at the cutting
edge of clean-energy technology.  Investments that didn’t pan out are a sliver of ARPA-E’s
spending. In September the agency awarded $156 million for 60
projects such as  energy storage  and electric-grid efficiency.
Recipients include the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and
 General Electric Co. (GE)  The Energy Department says 11 funded
companies attracted a combined $200 million from private
investors.  “We think this is money very well spent,” Chu said of
ARPA-E at a Feb. 14 budget briefing.  ALSO WORTH WATCHING:  EPA ARGUMENTS: Miners, utilities and manufacturers get two days
in court this week to argue for repeal of Environmental
Protection Agency decisions tied to controlling greenhouse-gas
emissions. The Coalition for Responsible Regulation Inc.,
 Peabody Energy Co. (BTU) , the National Mining Association, the
American Farm Bureau Federation and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce
are among challengers to the EPA’s 2009 finding that greenhouse
gases threaten public health. Arguments will be held tomorrow
and Feb. 29 in the U.S. Appeals Court for the  District of
Columbia .  FRACKING RICHES: Fracking for natural gas in southeast Ohio will
be discussed at a hearing in Steubenville today held by the U.S.
House Natural Resources Committee panel on energy and mineral
resources. Some landowners in Dean Martin’s hometown have
benefitted from millions of dollars in bonus checks from
drilling companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Ellis at 
 dellis5@bloomberg.net  