-- EPA Proposes Keeping Carbon Regulation Limited to Top Polluters
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-02-27T17:36:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/epa-proposes-keeping-carbon-regulation-limited-to-top-polluters.html
The Environmental Protection Agency
proposed keeping U.S. limits on permitting requirements for
greenhouse-gas emissions to  power plants  and other sources that
discharge more than 100,000 tons per year.  The proposal,  posted  on the agency’s website on Feb. 24
without notification, would maintain standards established in
2010 for new or revamped plants. The rules require companies
building qualifying plants to get state permits, and to use
“best available” control technologies.  The plan was posted by the agency as the U.S. Court of
Appeals in Washington plans to start hearing arguments tomorrow
from states and industries arguing in part that the EPA’s so-
called tailoring rule, which limits the businesses covered by
its standards, violates the law.  “This weakens the argument that there is an inexorable
push from EPA to regulate every hot dog stand in the country,”
 David Doniger , policy director for climate at the  Natural
Resources Defense Council  in Washington, said in an interview.  Without maintaining limits for power-plant emissions, state
agencies would get thousands of applications and “local
 permitting  authorities would be overwhelmed and the program’s
abilities to manage air quality would be severely impaired,”
the EPA said in a  fact sheet  posted on its website.  The EPA is advancing plans to regulate  carbon emissions 
after Congress failed to pass climate-change legislation. A bill
to limit carbon pollution stalled in the U.S. Senate after a
“cap-and-trade” measure passed the House in June 2009. The
Obama administration is reviewing an EPA proposal to set rules
on the carbon-dioxide emissions from new power plants, which
would exceed current permitting requirements. Those regulations
are overdue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in  Washington  at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  