-- Erdogan Promise Hit by $15B Finance Delays
-- B y   L o u i s e   M e e s o n
-- 2012-02-28T11:53:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/erdogan-promise-hit-by-15-billion-finance-delays-turkey-credit.html
Eight months after Prime Minister
 Recep Tayyip Erdogan  won an election landslide vowing to build
roads, bridges and power plants, his plans are threatened by a
financing shortfall of at least $15 billion.  Deals worth $5.5 billion to build a third bridge over the
Bosporus in Istanbul and operate other projects were postponed
since December. Another $10 billion of power grid sales were
cancelled or delayed since the start of 2010 because companies
couldn’t get loans, according to the  state asset sales agency .
Project financing costs for Turkish firms rose to an average 300
basis points over benchmark rates since October from 222 in the
first nine months, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The spread
globally increased to 303 basis points from 295 after  Europe ’s
debt crisis made borrowing harder.  “Project financing today will not be impossible, but it
will be difficult,” Suzan Sabanci Dincer, the billionaire
chairwoman of  Akbank TAS (AKBNK) , Turkey’s largest listed bank, said in
an interview at her office in Istanbul on Feb. 24. “Investors
are more picky about long-term lending because of the problems
in Europe. Companies with low equity will find it difficult to
borrow.”  Erdogan, 58, is seeking investment from abroad to finance a
 current account deficit  that surged to more than 10 percent of
gross domestic product last year and caused the lira to slide 18
percent against the dollar, the most worldwide. The premier,
who’s vowed to quadruple output to make Turkey a top 10 economy
by 2023, is calling on local banks to cut rates from as much as
20 percent and free up lira loans for businesses. Economic
growth will slow to 4 percent this year from 9.6 percent in the
first nine months of 2011, the second-fastest after  China  among
major economies, according to Erdogan.  Highway by Astaldi  Projects include construction of a $6.5 billion highway by
a group led by  Astaldi SpA (AST)  stretching 421 kilometers south from
Istanbul to the third-biggest city of Izmir and featuring the
world’s second-longest suspension bridge after the Akashi Kaikyo
Bridge in  Japan . The Astaldi-led group wants $3.5 billion of
loans and may seek more later, an official for the company said
from  Rome  by telephone yesterday on the condition of anonymity
because the details are private.  Erdogan’s press office in Ankara didn’t return e-mails or
phone calls seeking comment on a possible financing shortfall
for the projects he plans. The government stands ready to
provide more state guarantees for key infrastructure projects
such as the third Istanbul bridge to help with financing, Deputy
Prime Minister Ali Babacan, who is in charge of the economy,
said at the  World Economic Forum  in Davos,  Switzerland  on Jan.
26.  Missed Targets  “We couldn’t meet our privatization targets in the last
two years,” Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek, 45, said in a phone
interview on Feb. 23. “If global conditions are suitable, we
want to make up for the disappointment caused by companies not
being able to meet their obligations in power grid auctions and
meet this year’s 10 billion liras ($5.64 billion) asset sales
target.”  The building industry expanded 12.7 percent in the first
nine months of 2011, beating overall economic growth of 9.6
percent, according to the  Turkish Statistical Institute .
Construction grew an average of 12.5 percent over the past eight
quarters compared with 8.8 percent in the wider economy,
according to the statistics office.  Attracting Foreigners  Infrastructure projects lured $3.7 billion of foreign
direct investment between January and September last year,
almost a third of the $11.4 billion total, according to data
from the central bank and the Investment Support and Promotion
Agency of Turkey’s  website .  “Countries that deliver on infrastructure have the best
growth rates, China is a good example of that,” Tim Ash, the
head of  emerging markets  research at  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc (RBS) , said in a telephone interview in  London  on Feb. 24.
“Turkey is at least focusing on it. They need to improve
infrastructure and energy is top of the pile because of the
current account deficit.”  The  yield  on Turkey’s bonds denominated in dollars has
fallen 39 basis points, or 0.39 percentage point, this year to
5.38 percent, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index shows.
The decline is less than the average 47 basis-point decline in
 emerging market yields  to 5.61 percent. Yields on Turkish bonds
were unchanged on Feb. 24.  Yield Spreads  The extra yield investors demand to hold Turkish dollar
debt rather than similar-maturity  U.S. Treasuries  grew eight
basis points yesterday to 337, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI
Global index.  Two-year benchmark bond yields  in liras were down 4 basis
points to 9.30 percent in Istanbul today, extending their
decline to 171 basis points this year, the biggest decline among
19 major emerging markets tracked by Bloomberg. The lira rose
0.5 percent to 1.7582 per dollar, extending its gains this year
to 7.6 percent.  The cost of protecting Turkish bonds using five-year
credit-default swaps was down 7 basis points to 242 basis points
today, compared with a spread of 188 for Russia, 201 for Poland
and 155 for the Philippines, which has the same rating of BB
from  Standard & Poor’s . The figures are provided by CMA, which
is owned by  CME Group Inc. (CME)  and compiles prices quoted by dealers
in the privately-negotiated market. The swaps pay the buyer face
value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a government or company fail or be unable to
adhere to its debt agreements.  Domestic Lending  Companies in Turkey have raised $725 million in project
finance this year, a 30 percent jump from the same period of
2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Ictas Insaat Sanayi &
Ticaret AS, a Turkish builder, borrowed $700 million from
Istanbul-based  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN)  and other domestic
lenders in January to buy and run a $575 million power grid in
northwestern Turkey until 2035.  Energy made up 22 percent of Turkish imports last year, or
$54.1 billion, according to the statistics office. The country
gets 97 percent of the energy it consumes from abroad because it
has virtually no oil or natural gas resources of its own,  data 
in a strategy document published on the Energy Ministry’s
website show.  Erdogan plans three nuclear plants by 2023. The first will
be in Akkuyu on the Mediterranean coast and will cost $20
billion and produce 4,800 megawatts of power. The plant, to be
built by Moscow-based Rosatom Corp. and ZAO Atomstroyexport,
will be ready in six years, Erdogan said on Jan. 13.  One of the focal points of Erdogan’s election campaign was
a project to build a new canal to divert tankers from the
Bosphorus, expected to cost more than $20 billion. Labeling it
the “crazy project” in April last year, he pledged to complete
the planning stage within two years and deliver by 2023.  Delays on Grids  Power grid sales were delayed after bidders failed to make
payments, an official at the  asset sales agency  in Ankara said
by phone on Feb. 23 on the condition of anonymity, citing
government rules.  Offerings of grids located in areas including the resort
city of Antalya and the European side of Istanbul were
cancelled, the official said. The agency is continuing talks
with companies that submitted lower bids for grids on Istanbul’s
Asian side, the southern city of Adana and the eastern Van and
Dicle regions, he said.  Enerjisa Enerji Uretim AS, the Turkish electricity provider
owned by Vienna-based  Verbund AG (VER)  and  Haci Omer Sabanci Holding
AS (SAHOL)  in Istanbul, dropped its bid for the power grid on Istanbul’s
Asian side “due to the ongoing economic and financial crisis in
Europe,” the company said in an e-mailed statement on Dec. 30.  Turkey will find it difficult to finance some of its more
costly projects, said Simon Daws, executive director of project
finance loan syndications for Europe, the  Middle East  and Africa
at WestLB AG in London.  ‘Ambitious’ Projects  “The reason why deals are taking so long is that the
projects are ambitious,” Daws said in a telephone interview on
Feb. 17. “They are looking for long-term tenors and large
amounts and in the current economic climate that does not appeal
to everyone.”  Astaldi expects to complete the first phase of financing
for the highway in the third quarter, the company official said
by telephone from Rome yesterday on the condition of anonymity
because the details are private. Mehmet Cosan, chief financial
officer of  Otoyol A.S. , the Ankara-based company formed to lead
the highway project, didn’t respond to phone calls and an e-
mail.  ‘Quite Difficult’  “In Turkey, people are really not that interested in
investing very long term, partly because there is abundant
liquidity, but it’s all short term,” Mert Yildiz, an economist
at Renaissance Capital Ltd. in London, said by telephone on Feb.
23. “It’s quite difficult right now for European banks or any
investor to find credit for the next 10 years, which is what you
need to actually bid for a bridge. And it’s going to take years
for it to be completed.”  Turkey’s $735 billion  economy  is the eighth biggest in
Europe and about half the size of Russia’s. The  budget deficit 
shrank to 1.4 percent of GDP last year from 3.6 percent in 2010,
Simsek said on Jan. 16. The government targets a deficit of 1.5
percent for 2012, according to a medium-term economic program
published on Oct. 13.  “I don’t think Erdogan would go out and try to borrow $10
billion on the bond markets just to start these projects,”
Yildiz said. “Erdogan knows the dangers of fiscal expansion.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Meeson in London on 
 lmeeson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  