-- Ericsson Turns to Mobile Wallet Amid Short-Term Uncertainty
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-02-28T08:19:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/ericsson-ceo-turns-to-mobile-wallet-amid-short-term-uncertainty.html
Ericsson AB, the world’s largest
maker of wireless networking equipment, is making a new push
into services such as money transfers over handsets, as short-
term uncertainties weigh on growth of its traditional business,
Chief Executive Officer Hans Vestberg said in an interview.  Ericsson, which makes about 37 percent of its revenue
through services, said yesterday at the  Mobile World Congress  in
Barcelona that it teamed up with  Western Union Co. (WU)  to grab a
share of the $800 billion worth of ’m-commerce’ it estimates
will be recorded by 2016. Such transactions allow customers to
use their prepaid phone credit to pay for purchases on handsets.  “In the long term the fundamentals are definitely there,”
Vestberg said of the growth drivers in the network-equipment
market. “In the short term, decisions may depend on what
carriers see in the environment around them.”  Ericsson’s fourth-quarter profit missed estimates on slower
spending from  North American (PAL)  customers.  AT&T Inc. (T)  revised its
spending plans while it mounted a bid for  T-Mobile USA (166783Q)  that
collapsed in December, while T-Mobile had put its plans for a
network based on the so-called long-term evolution technology on
hold until last week. Verizon slowed capital expenditure
compared with last few years, according to the company’s
guidance.  30,000 Patents  Ericsson, based in  Stockholm , fell as much as 1.1 percent
to 65.85 kronor and traded 0.6 percent lower at 66.15 kronor as
of 9:18 a.m. in the Swedish capital.  The company, which competes with Alcatel-Lucent, Nokia
Siemens Networks, Huawei Technologies Co. and  ZTE Corp. (763) , said it
was discussing with telecom operators in different regions to
sell its mobile wallet after it signed its first contract with
 MTN Group (MTN)  in the Middle-East and  Africa .  Ericsson wants to develop new products and services
internally, Vestberg said. “Our priority is organic growth,”
he said. Asked whether he was looking to buy patents from
 Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ) , the photography pioneer that filed for
 bankruptcy protection  this year, Vestberg said he was not
looking to acquire more patents.  “We have 30,000 patents,” the CEO said. “We have the
most patents in 2G, 3G and 4G in the industry and we’re very
happy with that portfolio. We’re not looking to get more.”  Vestberg said yesterday that Ericsson is not interested in
buying assets Nokia Siemens, the phone equipment venture between
 Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and  Siemens AG (SIE) , has put up for sale. Shares of
Ericsson closed 1.7 percent lower on the Stockholm exchange
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Barcelona at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  