-- Merkel Wins Greek Aid Vote in Parliament After Defying Backlash on Bailout
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-02-28T08:14:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/merkel-rebuffs-bigger-euro-firewall-as-she-backs-financial-aid-for-greece.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  won a
parliamentary vote on Greek aid after warning German lawmakers
that pushing  Greece  out of the euro would risk “incalculable”
damage, defying a public backlash against more bailout funds.  In a ballot that showed dissent in her coalition growing,
496 members of the lower house, or Bundestag, backed the 130
billion-euro ($174 billion) package yesterday in Berlin; 90
voted against and five abstained. While questions on Greece’s
remaining in the euro “have their justification,” Merkel
warned that a failure of the euro might endanger the European
Union and the global economy.  “Angela Merkel’s strident insistence that bailing out
Greece is vastly preferable to the alternative was important,”
Kit Juckes, head of foreign-exchange research at Societe
Generale SA, said in a note today as he forecast the euro rising
to $1.50. “ Europe ’s leaders have always stepped back from the
edge of the abyss after flirting with disaster.”  Merkel’s government pushed through the measure to stave off
a collapse of the  Greek economy  amid signs of growing resistance
and as one of her Cabinet ministers said Greece should leave the
single currency. Euro leaders will now shift their focus on
whether to bolster the region’s bailout firewall as they prepare
for a summit meeting in Brussels on March 1-2.  Euro Gains  The euro added 0.4 percent to $1.3445 at 9:10 a.m.
Frankfurt time. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  opened up 0.2 percent
to 264.28.  The chancellor’s Christian Democratic bloc and its Free
Democratic Party coalition partner were joined by most
opposition Social Democratic and Green lawmakers in voting for
the bailout. Yet 17 lawmakers within Merkel’s coalition opposed
it -- another three abstained and six didn’t vote.  That left the government with a majority of 304 votes of
the 591 cast, though short of an absolute majority in the lower
chamber. That would have required 311 votes. Thus Merkel failed
to achieve a “chancellor’s majority,” a politically sensitive
bar measuring support among her allies.  Merkel said euro leaders this week will discuss moving up
capital payments for the permanent fund, the European Stability
Mechanism, and that  Germany  is willing to pay in 11 billion
euros this year if other countries speed up payments as well.  “There’s no need now for a debate on increasing the
capacity” of the temporary and permanent bailout funds, Merkel
said, citing lower  bond yields  for Italy and  Spain .  ‘Stop’  The stakes of the Bundestag vote were underscored by a
headline yesterday in Germany’s best-selling Bild newspaper
calling on lawmakers  to reject  the Greek bailout package.
Exhorting Bundestag members to “Stop!” in a front-page
headline, the  Axel Springer AG (SPR) -owned newspaper capitalized on
public distaste over the rescue package.  Bild reported on Feb. 26 that 62 percent of Germans wanted
lawmakers to vote down the package, versus 33 percent who
approved, according to a poll.  Interior Minister  Hans-Peter Friedrich  became the first
German Cabinet member to raise the prospect of a Greek departure
from the euro area. Friedrich told  Der Spiegel  magazine in an
interview that while Greece shouldn’t be expelled from the
monetary union, it would have better chances outside the area.  “I think those risks are incalculable, and therefore
indefensible,” Merkel told lawmakers in the Bundestag. As
chancellor, “I should and have to take risks, but I cannot
embark on adventures. My oath forbids that,” she said.  Merkel Pushes Back  Merkel continued to push back against plans to combine the
250 billion euros remaining in the region’s temporary fund and
the 500 billion-euro permanent rescue fund that is due to come
into force in July.  This week’s summit in Brussels likely won’t reach a
decision on an increase of the 500 billion-euro lending ceiling,
putting off a final verdict on the issue until later in March,
European Commission President  Jose Barroso  said. “March of
course has 31 days,” Barroso said at the Lisbon Council in
Brussels yesterday. “During March this matter is going to be
addressed.”  Elsewhere, parliaments in  Finland  and the Netherlands plan
to vote on the same Greek aid package tomorrow, while the
 European Central Bank  is preparing to issue a second round of
unlimited three-year loans to help shore up the region’s banks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  