-- Merkel Lawmakers Soften IMF Demands as Bundestag Prepares for Greek Vote
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-02-27T11:25:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/merkel-lawmakers-soften-imf-demands-as-bundestag-prepares-for-greek-vote.html
Lawmakers from German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel ’s coalition tempered a call on the  International
Monetary Fund  to shoulder one-third of the costs of a new Greek
bailout, urging the fund to help “as far as possible,” as the
Berlin  parliament  prepares to vote on the aid this evening.  The appeal to the IMF to share the 130 billion-euro ($174
billion) package comprises one of four non-binding demands in a
resolution signed by the leaders of the three coalition parties
ahead of the ballot. The Bundestag, or lower house, will vote on
the aid at 6 p.m. As a condition of support, coalition lawmakers
“expect” Merkel to abide by their requests, a one-page
resolution states.  The coalition expects “that the IMF, as far as possible,
continues to play a financial role in the program” for  Greece ,
according to the resolution, a copy of which was obtained by
Bloomberg News. The lawmakers also demand that  Germany  withholds
aid for Greece until it fully meets the terms of the bailout,
appeal for German support to revamp the  Greek economy , and ask
that lawmakers be adequately informed about crisis developments.  The IMF is holding out with details on the size of its
commitment to the second rescue package for Greece, opening a
potential gap in funding that Germany, the euro-area’s single
biggest contributor to the aid, may be reluctant to fill.  Coalition Stir  While opposition parties will probably help Merkel gain a
majority in today’s vote, comments by Interior Minister Hans- Peter Friedrich that Greece would have better chances of
overhauling its economy and restoring growth if it left the euro
area caused a stir in her coalition.  Friedrich, a member of the Bavaria-based  Christian Social
Union  that’s allied with Merkel’s larger Christian Democratic
Union, is her first Cabinet member to suggest Greece’s exit from
the euro, in an interview with  Der Spiegel  released on Feb. 25.
 Volker Kauder , the parliamentary leader of Merkel’s Christian
Democratic bloc, countered by saying Germany doesn’t want to
force Greece out of the euro area, in an interview with ARD
television.  Sixty-two percent of Germans want lawmakers to reject
renewed aid for Greece in the parliamentary vote, Bild am
Sonntag newspaper reported yesterday, citing a poll.  Hopes Dashed  Germany’s hopes of winning the support of the Group of
Twenty states to build up the euro area’s permanent rescue fund
via the conduit of the IMF were dashed at a meeting of the group
in Mexico City at the weekend, shoring up a risk that the
currency area needs to dig deeper to payroll the stability of
the euro.  The G-20 meeting concluded that a European review of its
financial firewall in March is “essential” before any
consideration can be made to boost resources for the IMF, the
G-20 said in its closing statement issued yesterday. Progress
will be assessed in April, when officials gather in  Washington 
for the IMF’s spring meetings.  Germany has signed up for 21.5 billion euros of 80 billion
euros in a so-called “paid-in” cash reserve of the 500
billion-euro European Stability Mechanism. German lawmakers will
resist any calls to increase the country’s financial input into
the fund, Christian Democrat budget spokesman Norbert Barthle
said in an interview on Feb. 24.  In today’s vote on a new financial lifeline for Greece,
Merkel can count on the support of the opposition  Social
Democrats  and Greens as well her own coalition, Barthle said.
Merkel needs a simple majority. Her coalition has 330 seats in
the 620-member lower house. Finnish and Dutch lawmakers are also
due to vote on the bailout this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  