-- Tetangco Says Philippines May Provide Up to $500 Million to IMF
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2012-02-27T12:53:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/tetangco-says-philippines-may-provide-up-to-500-million-to-imf.html
Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Governor
Amando Tetangco said the  Philippines  may provide the equivalent
of as much as $500 million to the International Monetary Fund’s
New Arrangements to Borrow facility, or NAB. This will be on top
of the country’s contributions to the IMF’s Financial
Transactions Plan, Tetangco said in an e-mail today.  From a borrower, the Philippines is  now a creditor  to the
fund, the central bank said last week. As of December 2011, the
nation had made available to the IMF about $251.5 million, of
which more than half was disbursed to European countries such as
Ireland, Portugal and  Greece .  “The participation in the NAB would be a significant step
in strengthening international cooperation and would demonstrate
the BSP’s strong commitment to help address threats to the
international monetary system. Among the ASEAN countries, the
NAB participants include Malaysia, Thailand and  Singapore .”  On lending to IMF as means to diversify reserves:  “Participation in the FTP and the NAB earns interest,
called remuneration, at the SDR  interest rate , which is
currently 0.15 percent. The SDR interest rate is computed
weekly, based on the weighted average of interest rates of
financial instruments in the SDR basket, which is comprised of
the  U.S. dollar , the euro, Japanese yen and pound sterling.”  “In this respect, therefore, this participation in the
IMF’s lending facilities is a form of diversification of the
reserves.”  “But more than this, while it may provide an alternative
investment instrument, lending to the IMF is recognition of the
strength of our macroeconomic fundamentals (particularly our
strong external liquidity position) and contributes to
international cooperation efforts to help address threats to the
stability of the international monetary system.”  On the Chiang Mai Initiative:  “The Philippines welcomes any opportunity to increase its
contribution commitment to the Chiang Mai Initiative consistent
with its continued support to the initiatives of the ASEAN plus
3 countries to further strengthen regional financial
cooperation.”  “There are, in fact, ongoing discussions to enhance the
effectiveness of the Chiang Mai Initiative in order to further
boost the capacity of the region to safeguard against downside
risks and challenges in the global economy. These initiatives
may include, among others, the increase in the size of the
Chiang Mai Initiative facility which would also involve the
increase in members’ contributions including that of the
Philippines.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  