-- Mets Complete Sale of Minority Stakes in Bid to Pay Down Debt, Wilpon Says
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-02-27T20:45:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/mets-complete-sale-of-minority-stakes-in-bid-to-pay-down-debt-wilpon-says.html
New York Mets owner Fred Wilpon said
the cash-strapped team has completed the sale of seven minority
ownership shares, four of which went to the regional sports
network owned by the team,  Time Warner (TWC)  Cable Inc. and  Comcast (CMCSA) 
Corp.  The Mets are selling 10, $20 million shares, each
representing about 4 percent of the  Major League Baseball 
franchise. Seven of the buyers, all friends of the Wilpon
family, have been approved by baseball. The other would-be
investors are being vetted, said Wilpon, 75, who reiterated his
intent to retain control of the franchise that he bought into in
1980, according to a transcript on ESPN.com. Wilpon spoke to
reporters at the team’s spring-training home in Port St. Lucie,
Florida.  Andrew Fegyveresi, a spokesman for SNY, said network
officials wouldn’t comment. Allen & Co.’s  Steve Greenberg , who
is handling the share sale for the team, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Billionaire hedge-fund manager  Steven Cohen  of SAC Capital
Advisors, who is among the bidders for the  Los Angeles Dodgers ,
is among those investing in the Mets, a person with direct
knowledge of the situation told Bloomberg News on Feb. 2. Wilpon
didn’t identify the investors. Cohen would over time sell his
interest in the Mets if he is chosen to own the Dodgers, the
person said.  Wilpon said a portion of the $200 million generated by the
sales will be used to repay a $25 million loan from Major League
Baseball and a $40 million loan from  Bank of America  Corp.  Madoff Suit  Wilpon and co-owner Saul Katz face a $386 million lawsuit
filed by the trustee representing victims of the Bernard Madoff
scam.  Irving Picard , the trustee, says Wilpon and Katz are
sophisticate investors and should’ve known that Madoff was
operating a Ponzi Scheme. Wilpon and Katz have denied the
assertion.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff threw out most of Picard’s
$1 billion lawsuit against the owners last year, saying he could
pursue only $386 million.  Wilpon and Katz on Feb. 24 asked the judge to dismiss
Picard’s suit. Rakoff said he would rule on the Mets owners’
dismissal request on March 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  