-- G-20 Rebuffs Europe’s Call for Help
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   A l a n   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-02-27T12:28:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/europe-left-to-dig-deeper-after-g-20-rebuffs-call-for-help.html
European leaders shift their focus
this week to bolstering the euro region’s debt-crisis firewall
after the Group of 20 nations rebuffed their call for help.  The decision by G-20 finance ministers to fend off pleas
for assistance pending an increase in the euro-area backstop
puts the onus on  Germany , the biggest national contributor to
bailouts, to overcome its resistance to doing more.  With a parliamentary vote on a second Greek aid package
looming in Berlin today, German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s
government must decide next month whether to back plans to
combine rescue funds and produce a potential firewall of 750
billion euros ($1 trillion). European Union leaders convene for
a summit meeting in Brussels on March 1-2.  Europe “doesn’t really need any outside money,” Jim O’Neill, chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management, said in an
e-mail. “It needs their own policy makers, especially Germany,
to show leadership.”  Finland votes on the same package on Feb. 29 while the
 European Central Bank  is preparing to issue a second round of
unlimited three-year loans to help shore up the region’s banks.  Germany went to the Mexico meetings of finance ministers
and central bankers urging G-20 nations to find fresh money for
the  International Monetary Fund  that could be channeled to
defuse the euro-region crisis now in its third year. IMF chief
 Christine Lagarde , who attended the talks, said she wants to
raise the Washington-based fund’s lending capacity by $500
billion to fend off “further shocks” to the global economy.  Merkel Urges IMF  This week’s EU summit likely won’t reach a decision on
expanding the firewall, putting off a final verdict on the issue
until later in March, European Commission President  Jose Barroso 
said today at the Lisbon Council in Brussels.  “March of course has 31 days,” Barroso said. “During
March this matter is going to be addressed.”  Merkel’s coalition today urged that the IMF “as far as
possible, continues to play a financial role in the program”
for Greece, according to a resolution for the Greek aid vote
obtained by Bloomberg News.  German Interior Minister  Hans-Peter Friedrich  said Greece
would have better chances of overhauling its economy if it left
the euro area, Der Spiegel said today, citing an interview,
adding that this is the first time a German Cabinet member has
suggested a Greek exit. Germany’s  Bild , the country’s biggest
selling newspaper, ran a front-page headline today saying
“Stop!” and urged lawmakers to vote against further Greek aid.
With the opposition Social Democrats and Greens backing aid for
 Greece  the measure is likely to win approval.  Stocks, Euro Fall  Stocks and the euro fell. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP) 
retreated 0.8 percent at 12:02 p.m. in  London . The euro was down
0.3 percent at $1.3402 at 1:03 p.m. Frankfurt time.  The G-20 concluded that a European review of its financial
firewall in March is “essential” before any consideration can
be made to boost resources for the IMF, the G-20 said in its
closing statement issued in Mexico City yesterday. Progress will
be assessed in April, when officials gather in  Washington  for
the IMF’s spring meetings.  “Until we see the color of their money, I don’t think you
are going to see any money from the rest of the world,” U.K.
Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne said in an interview
in  Mexico  City.  Pressure on Europe  The U.S. led calls for Europe to step up, with Treasury
Secretary Timothy F. Geithner saying in a Feb. 25 speech in
Mexico that the region needed to make their crisis-fighting
commitments “credible.” The same day, German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  said a deal struck last week for Greece’s 130
billion-euro bailout showed “Europe has done its homework.”  The exchange underscored G-20 divisions as  Japan , Brazil,
Russia and the U.K. joined with the U.S. and Canada in prodding
the euro-area to boost its crisis defenses. The deliberations
left no time for discussion of a successor to World Bank chief
Robert Zoellick, who steps down on Jun 30.  While the German government has yet to show its hand on a
plan to combine the 250 billion euros remaining in the region’s
temporary fund and the 500 billion-euro permanent rescue fund
that is due to come into force in July, Merkel has signaled she
may be open to review the matter at the EU summit in Brussels.  Germany Opposes Funds  Merkel spokesman Steffen Seibert said Feb. 25 there was no
change in the German position that there’s no need to raise the
funding limit, rebutting a report in Germany’s Focus magazine.
Focus had said Merkel’s government was prepared to concede and
allow 250 billion euros in additional funding from the remaining
volume of the EFSF.  As with Germany’s stance on the crisis since it first came
to light in Greece in late 2009, Merkel must take into account
domestic considerations. A total of 62 percent of German voters
said they want lawmakers to reject aid for Greece in today’s
vote, an Emnid poll of 500 people for Bild am Sonntag newspaper
showed yesterday. Thirty-two percent backed the bailout.  EU Economic and Monetary Commissioner  Olli Rehn , asked in
Mexico if he expected a deal on the firewall at this week’s
summit, said he anticipated a result “in the course of March.”
Italy’s central banker, Ignazio Visco, echoed those sentiments.  “The Germans have their own sequencing” and “want Greece
out of the way” before debating the firewall,  Jacques Cailloux 
of Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc., said by phone. “Any hope
there could have been for an agreement on a higher firewall as
early as this week’s summit is fading.”  ECB Liquidity  Even so, the G-20’s stance on additional funds is not as
big a focus for investors as Greece and the ECB’s decision to
offer banks unlimited liquidity for three years, the second such
offering in three months, Cailloux said.  Pressure for a deal in Mexico eased after European bond
markets reacted positively to last week’s agreement to help
Greece avert the euro-area’s first sovereign default.  Italy’s 10-year bonds rose for a seventh week, the longest
run of gains in the euro-era, while Spanish 10-year bonds had
their biggest weekly advance in a month.  Europe ’s  Stoxx 600 (SXXP)  index slipped 0.4 percent last week on
concern that Greece won’t be able to implement the austerity
measures needed for the rescue. The European Commission said the
euro area’s economy will shrink this year.  ‘More Firepower Needed’  “In order to reassure market investors that contagion is
under control, more firepower is needed,”  Andrew Milligan , who
helps oversee about $262 billion as the Edinburgh-based head of
global strategy at Standard Life Investments Ltd., said in an e-
mail. “Pressure is certainly growing on Germany and others to
increase the firewall. I think eventually they will agree,
although it may take another crisis or a difficult period of
negotiation before that happens.”  Euro-area governments have pledged about $200 billion in
new money to the IMF’s lending resources. Geithner said in
Mexico that he won’t go to Congress to seek a U.S. contribution
because “we don’t think that’s necessary or desirable.”  Brazil’s Finance Minister Guido Mantega said after meeting
with his counterparts from Russia, India,  China  and  South Africa 
that the BRICS group of major  emerging markets  will only add
more funding for Europe if the region’s leaders follow
“precisely to the letter” a 2010 agreement to give them a
bigger say in how the IMF is run.  Canadian Finance Minister Jim Flaherty pointed the finger
at Germany for being absent at the helm, saying that it was time
for Europe’s dominant country to “take that leadership role
very seriously and come up with an overall euro-zone plan.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alan Crawford  in Mexico City at 
 acrawford6@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  