-- Europe Could Take Lessons From Mexico’s Tequila Crisis, G-20’s Host Says
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   R o e d e r   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-02-27T02:10:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/europe-could-take-lessons-from-mexico-s-tequila-crisis-g-20-s-host-says.html
European nations, struggling to end
their debt crisis, should look at  Latin America ’s triumph over
decades of financial crashes as a blueprint for resolving their
woes, said officials at a summit of the world’s biggest
economies in Mexico.  Mexican President Felipe Calderon used the two-day summit
of Group of 20 finance officials to urge policy makers to follow
his country’s example and take decisive action to prevent
turmoil in  Europe  from further hurting global economic growth.  Latin America has so far proven resilient to global
volatility after countries including Brazil and Mexico cut
spending over the past two decades. In contrast, European
nations are still trying to halt contagion more than two years
after Greece’s debt crisis emerged. The International Monetary
Fund forecasts Latin American economies will grow 3.6 percent in
2012, three times the expected pace for advanced nations.  Luis Tellez , chief executive officer of Bolsa Mexicana de
Valores SAB, the nation’s stock exchange, said Europe isn’t
acting fast enough to staunch the damage.  “While Europe took years to make decisions, we made
decisions with the U.S. and the IMF in two months,” said
Tellez, who was chief of staff to then-President  Ernesto Zedillo 
during the Tequila crisis that followed devaluation of the peso
in 1994.  Mexico, Latin America’s second-biggest economy, shrank 6.2
percent in 1995, when the government used a $50 billion IMF
bailout to avoid default after floating the peso against the
dollar. A 50 percent devaluation ignited inflation that peaked
at 52 percent and sparked capital outflows across the region.  Mexican Advantages  To be sure, Europe lacks several advantages Mexico had in
reversing its decline.  Greece ’s debt ballooned last year to
about 160 percent of gross domestic product, while Mexico began
its fiscal tightening prior to the Tequila crisis. Struggling
nations like Spain and  Italy  are part of the 17-nation  euro
zone , meaning they can’t boost exports the way Mexico did by
devaluing the currency.  A strong  U.S. economy  also helped drive Mexican growth of
5.5 percent in 1996. Mexico sends 80 percent of its exports to
the U.S. and its growth is tightly linked to that of its
northern neighbor.  ‘Too Timidly’  Still, as occurred in the past in Latin America,
politicians in Europe today are failing to act decisively to
contain growing deficits, said Claudio Loser, a former director
for the Western Hemisphere at the  International Monetary Fund 
from 1994 to 2002.  “The Europeans believe that their experience is unique,
when it’s not,” said Loser in a phone interview yesterday.
“They didn’t see the gravity of the problem in 2008 and 2009,
and then they tried to solve the problem too timidly.”  While Greece on Feb. 25 formally asked investors to
exchange their government debt holdings for new securities in
the biggest sovereign restructuring in history, economists from
Citigroup Inc. to Commerzbank AG say Greece may still default
amid a fifth year of recession.  The European Union’s 130-billion euro debt bailout,
approved last week, will probably fail because it is
“fundamentally poorly designed and poorly implemented,” said
 Guillermo Ortiz , chairman of Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB and a
former governor of Banco de  Mexico .  “The program is a brutal intrusion,” said Ortiz, who
oversaw Mexico’s response to the Tequila Crisis as Finance
Minister under Zedillo. “There’s no light at the end of the
tunnel.”  Stabilizing Expectations  Mexican central bank Governor Agustin Carstens, a former
IMF Deputy Managing Director, also drew on the tough lessons
learned by Latin America since the 1970s to give advice to
Europe.  “First, during financial crises, expectations must be
stabilized as soon as possible,” said Carstens, who worked in
the central bank’s economic research department during the
Tequila crisis. Then, when tensions ease, nations must be
“focused on creating institutional arrangements capable of
preventing and avoiding the reemergence of those crises.”  In the case of Mexico, those arrangements include a law
that caps deficit spending.  Brazil , after it devalued its
currency in 1999, put a ceiling on borrowing at all levels of
government and threatened public officials with jail sentences
if they don’t meet strict spending limits. The so-called fiscal
responsibility law helped lower the country’s debt to its
current 36.5 percent of gross domestic product, compared with 63
percent in 2002.  Chile , the world’s largest copper producer and the region’s
highest-rated borrower, went even further and enacted laws
requiring it to boost savings during periods of fast growth.  Risks for Region  While Latin American economies have so far shown strength,
trade and capital flows to the region could slide if Europe’s
economic situation worsens, Loser said.  Oil prices  that are
rising amid tensions in the  Middle East  are also a concern if
they lead U.S. consumers to curtail purchases of Mexican
manufacturing goods, said Sergio Luna, chief economist at
Citigroup’s Banamex unit in Mexico City.  “We’re all in the same boat, and it doesn’t matter whether
the hole is in first, second or third class,” Calderon told
officials in a dinner at the historic Chapultepec castle Feb.
25. “It’s the same boat and we have to fix it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Roeder in Mexico City at 
 jroeder@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 