-- Ex-Nigerian Delta Governor Pleads Guilty to Money Laundering
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2012-02-27T18:07:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/ex-nigerian-delta-governor-pleads-guilty-to-money-laundering-2-.html
Former Nigerian Delta State Governor
James Ibori pleaded guilty in  London  to stealing millions of
dollars from the West African nation while he was in power.  Ibori, who governed the state for eight years, entered the
guilty pleas to 10 charges including  money laundering  and
conspiracy to defraud today, when his trial was scheduled to
begin. Police estimate he embezzled $250 million to live “a
life of luxury,” the U.K.’s  Department for International
Development  said in a statement.  “Ibori has effectively accepted that he stole the money
while he was governor of the Nigerian state, which he went on to
launder,”  Sasha Wass , a lawyer for the prosecutors, said at the
hearing. He “siphoned off millions from the coffers of the
Nigerian state.”  Ibori was charged in April 2011 by U.K. prosecutors after
he was extradited from Dubai. He was under investigation by the
Metropolitan Police’s Proceeds of Corruption Unit for seven
years, Detective Inspector Paul Whatmore said in the statement.  “We will now be actively seeking the confiscation of all
his stolen assets so they can be repatriated for the benefit of
the people of Delta State,” Whatmore said.  Ibori was first arrested by the Abuja-based Economic and
Financial Crimes Commission,  Nigeria ’s anti-graft agency, in
December 2007 after he left office and was charged with 170
counts of corruption, the statement said. The charges were
dismissed two years later by a Federal High Court in Asaba,
Ibori’s home town.  The case against Ibori by  the EFCC  was “never closed,”
Wilson Uwujaren, a spokesman for the agency, said today in an e-
mail. The EFCC’s appeal of the Asaba court ruling is pending, he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  