-- FBI Fraud Probes Increase as Insider Trading ‘Widespread’
-- B y   S e t h   S t e r n
-- 2012-02-27T18:54:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/fbi-securities-probes-increase-as-insider-trading-widespread-.html
Open FBI investigations into
corporate, securities and commodity fraud increased 8.8 percent
as of Sept. 30, compared to a year earlier, the agency said in a
report.  The  Federal Bureau of Investigation  had 2,572 such cases
open at the end of last fiscal year, according to the report
released today. That’s up from 2,364 on Sept. 30, 2010.  The FBI report included data on financial crime probes
during the last two fiscal years, including investigations
related to the economic downturn that followed the 2008 market
collapse.  There was an increase in  insider trading  probes, which are
a “widespread problem” that has plagued the “fair and orderly
operation” of securities markets, according to the report.  “Insider trading has been a continuous threat to the fair
and orderly operation of the U.S. financial markets and has
robbed the investing public of some degree of trust that markets
operate fairly,” according to the report.  The FBI is making greater use of wiretaps and undercover
operations, which may provide the “best evidence” to prosecute
financial crimes, said Timothy Gallagher, chief of the FBI’s
financial crimes section, at a briefing in  Washington .  Wiretaps Used  “You don’t want to sit in a room with a hundred filing
cabinets,” Gallagher said. “You want to get people on tape
talking about their crimes.”  The FBI used wiretaps or undercover operations in more than
40 corporate, securities and commodity cases in 2011, compared
to less than 20 in 2008.  The FBI released a surveillance video in the case of Yonni
Sebbag, who pleaded guilty to selling confidential Walt Disney
Co. earnings information obtained by his girlfriend, a company
employee. Sebbag was sentenced in January, 2011 to 27 months in
prison.  Sebbag was shown asking two people whether they were with
the FBI or Securities and Exchange Commission. One of them, an
undercover FBI agent, said he was with the Central Intelligence
Agency, eliciting laughs from Sebbag.  The number of cases involving falsified financial
information “remains relatively stable,” according to the
report.  Mortgage Cases Decline  The number of pending mortgage fraud cases declined 14
percent to 2,691 in 2011 from the previous fiscal year. Fraud
targeting distressed homeowners has displaced loan originations
as the biggest source of fraud in many FBI field offices, the
report said.  The FBI also had 2,690 pending health care fraud
investigations at the end of fiscal 2011, up from 2,573 in 2010.  The FBI also released a public service announcement
featuring actor  Michael Douglas  reprising his role from the 1987
movie, “ Wall Street .”  “The movie was fiction but the problem is real,” Douglas
said in the 57-second ad, in which he asks the public to report
insider trading and other securities crime to their local FBI
field office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  