-- ‘Impaired’ Mortgage Market Holding Back Growth, Duke Tells Senate Panel
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2012-02-27T23:16:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/fed-s-duke-says-impaired-mortgage-market-holding-back-growth.html
Federal Reserve  Governor Elizabeth Duke said slow improvement in housing and mortgage markets has
impeded the benefit from record-low interest rates to U.S.
economic growth.  “The failure of the housing market to respond to lower
interest rates as vigorously as it has in the past indicates
that factors other than financial conditions may be restraining
improvement in mortgage credit and housing market conditions and
thus impeding the economic recovery,” Duke said in prepared
testimony, obtained by Bloomberg News, for a Senate Banking
Committee hearing tomorrow.  U.S. unemployment is persisting above 8 percent even after
the Fed has held the main  interest rate  close to zero for more
than three years and purchased $2.3 trillion in bonds.  Duke, in her remarks, drew from a Fed study on the U.S.
housing market for Congress last month. In a cover letter to
that study, Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said that “restoring
the health of the housing market is a necessary part of a
broader strategy for economic recovery.”  The Fed chairman said policies that would help resolve the
slumping housing market could include programs to ease the
conversion of foreclosed properties to rental properties.
Avoiding foreclosure through “a broad menu” of loan
modifications could also help minimize foreclosures, he said.  “The problems in the housing market are a cause of the
downturn as well as a consequence of it,” Duke said, adding
“the housing market remains a significant drag on the  U.S.
economy .”  Sparked Recession  More Americans than forecast signed contracts to buy
previously owned homes in January, indicating the industry that
sparked the last recession is improving. The index of pending
home resales climbed 2 percent last month, the National
Association of Realtors said today.  Purchases of new homes in the U.S. exceeded forecasts in
January after climbing a month earlier to a one-year high, more
evidence the housing market is stabilizing. Sales were 321,000
at an annual pace, according to a Commerce Department report
last week, beating the median estimate of 77 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News who called for 315,000.  Confidence among U.S. homebuilders rose in February to the
highest level since May 2007 as sales and buyer traffic
improved, according to the National Association of Home
Builders/Wells Fargo sentiment gauge.  “The Federal Reserve will continue to use its policy tools
to support the economic recovery and carry out its dual mandate
to foster maximum employment in the context of  price
stability ,” Duke said.  “In its supervisory capacity, the Federal Reserve will
continue to encourage lenders to find ways to maintain prudent
lending standards while serving creditworthy borrowers,” she
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  