-- Fed Economists Say Taylor Rule Shows Rates Should Vary by Region
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-02-27T21:45:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/fed-economists-say-taylor-rule-shows-rates-should-vary-by-region.html
A rule designed to help central
bankers determine whether to change the main  interest rate 
indicates that borrowing costs should vary across U.S. regions,
the Federal Reserve Bank of  San Francisco  said.  “The same kinds of tensions over monetary policy that are
found in a monetary union of many separate countries, such as
the euro area, can appear in a single diverse country, such as
the United States,” Israel Malkin and Fernanda Nechio at the
San Francisco Fed wrote in a report released today. “These
divergent regional Taylor rule policy rates stem from
differences in  unemployment  and inflation rates across
regions.”  Developed by Stanford University professor  John Taylor , the
Taylor rule is designed to determine the optimal interest rate
based on inflation and output. The formula predicted at the end
of 2011 policy rates ranging from 0.35 percent in the West to 3
percent in the Midwest, the report said.  The Fed has held the  federal funds rate  at zero to 0.25
percent since December 2008.  The divergence among four U.S. regions wasn’t as great as
the variation between peripheral and core nations within the
euro area. The Taylor rule would recommend a rate of minus 2
percent among peripheral countries and 5 percent among core
nations in 2011, according to the regional bank economists.  “The relatively greater regional balance in the  United
States  can be attributed to higher labor mobility, which permits
greater responsiveness to unemployment,” Malkin and Nechio
said. “By contrast, inside the euro area, cross-country  labor
movement  is still very limited.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in San Francisco at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Chris Wellisz
at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  