-- FHA to Increase Cost of Up-Front Mortgage Premiums for New 30-Year Loans
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-02-28T17:48:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/fha-to-boost-cost-of-up-front-mortgage-insurance-premiums-75-basis-points.html
The  Federal Housing Administration 
will increase the cost of up-front mortgage insurance premiums
by 75 basis points as part of efforts to rebuild the agency’s
insurance fund.  The increase will apply only to new 30-year, single-family
FHA loans and won’t affect the cost of streamlined refinancings,
FHA Acting Commissioner Carol Galante said yesterday in a call
with reporters. The refinancing program allows FHA borrowers in
good standing to qualify for a new, lower-rate FHA loan with
minimal paperwork.  The higher premium will add about $5 per month to the cost
of a typical $150,000 FHA loan and increase the agency’s revenue
by about $1 billion a year, Galante said. The increase will take
effect April 1.  The increase in the up-front premium will be in addition to
other premium increases announced earlier this month as part of
the agency’s 2013 budget, Galante said.  “We have determined that it is appropriate to increase
mortgage insurance premiums in order to help protect our capital
reserves and to continue encouraging the return of private
capital to the housing market,” Galante said in a press release
announcing the changes.  Analysts have anticipated an increase in FHA premiums since
at least November, when an audit reported that agency reserves
had fallen to a record low of $2.6 billion. The FHA’s capital
ratio, which measures its ability to withstand losses, was 0.24
percent in the year ended Sept. 30, the third straight year it
has failed to meet the legal minimum of 2 percent.  Fund Dwindles  Republican lawmakers have voiced concern about the
dwindling insurance fund and whether the agency would have to
draw on the U.S. Treasury Department to remain solvent. An Obama
administration budget plan sent to Congress on Feb. 13 projected
that the FHA could require as much as $688 million.  “My main question is, is the FHA broke? Because that is
the concern,” Representative Shelley Moore Capito, a House
Financial Services subcommittee chairwoman from  West Virginia ,
asked Galante today during a hearing on the agency’s budget.  Galante said the premium increases, as well as a legal
settlement on foreclosure practices that includes a $1 billion
payment from  Bank of America Corp ., “will more than fill that
gap.”  Galante, in remarks to reporters yesterday, also didn’t
rule out future rate increases.  Being ‘Vigilant’  “If the economy changes, if something else happens, we
have to be vigilant here,” she said. “I don’t want to be
overly optimistic.”  Earlier this month, President  Barack Obama  said he would
ask Congress to approve funding for a plan that would make it
easier for borrowers to refinance into lower  interest rates  even
if their property value has fallen to less than the size of
their mortgage. The proposal would allow those homeowners to
finance into FHA-guaranteed loans and would be paid for by a tax
on financial companies.  The agency could announce a change to streamlined
refinancings as soon as this week, said  Brian Sullivan , an FHA
spokesman.  Because the FHA backs many first-time and lower-income
borrowers, the premium increases could have a negative effect on
the housing market, particularly on homebuilders, according to
 Jaret Seiberg , senior policy analyst at Guggenheim Securities’
Washington Research Group.  ‘Negative’ for Housing  “We believe this is a negative for housing as it will make
it that much more expensive for first-time homebuyers to enter
the market,” Seiberg said in a note to clients.  Starting April 1, the up-front premium will cost 1.75
percent of the loan amount. Increases in up-front premiums are
generally easier for borrowers to bear because they can be
amortized over the life of the mortgage.  Annual premiums on those larger loans up to $729,750 will
rise by 35 basis points, a move announced as part of the FHA
budget. Annual premiums on loans up to $625,500 will increase by
10 basis points.  The FHA charges lenders and borrowers a fee in exchange for
a guarantee that the mortgages it backs will be paid.  The agency has grown rapidly since the 2008 subprime
lending collapse drove private lenders out of the market. The
FHA now insures more than a third of home purchases. Since 2008
the FHA has paid $37 billion in claims related to defaulted
mortgages.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  