-- FHFA Will Sell Foreclosed Homes to Investors for Rentals
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-02-27T22:00:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/fhfa-to-begin-selling-foreclosed-homes-to-investors-for-rentals.html
The  Federal Housing Finance Agency 
will begin inviting bids from investors to buy packages of
foreclosed properties to be offered as rentals.  The agency today said it will send  detailed information  to
investors who qualify to participate in the bulk-sales pilot
program. About 2,500 foreclosure homes will be marketed in
Atlanta,  Chicago ,  Las Vegas ,  Los Angeles , Phoenix and parts of
 Florida , according to a statement posted by the agency on its
 website  today.  The program is limited to properties owned by Washington-
based Fannie Mae, which sells and guarantees home loans. The
subprime lending collapse left the company with more than
122,000 foreclosed homes, also known as real-estate-owned or
REO, when loans that it guaranteed failed.  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and its
smaller rival, Freddie Mac, were taken under government
conservatorship in 2008 amid mounting losses. Freddie Mac will
not participate in the pilot programs.  Under the pilot program, the first large-scale bulk sales
effort by FHFA, investors will agree to be equity partners with
Fannie Mae.  “This is another important milestone in our initiative
designed to reduce taxpayer losses, stabilize neighborhoods and
home values, shift to more private management of properties, and
reduce the supply of REO properties in the marketplace,” FHFA
Acting Director Edward J. DeMarco said in a written statement.  Qualified Investors  The agency announced its intent to commence the program and
invited investors to apply on Feb. 1.  Credit Suisse (CSGN)  is the
financial adviser on the sale.  To participate, investors must show that they have the
experience and financial capacity to purchase and manage the
properties, the agency said. Once they qualify, they’ll receive
detailed information about the properties. To bid on the homes,
qualified investors must post a security deposit and sign a
confidentiality agreement to gain access to detailed
information, according to the news release.  “It’s a good first step,” Oliver Chang, a Morgan Stanley
analyst who has advocated for bulk sales of foreclosures as
rentals, said in a telephone interview from  San Francisco  today.
“We think the backlog of distressed homes is the biggest drag
on a recovery.”  85 Percent Occupied  The portfolio is comprised of 2,854 housing units in 2,490
homes, of which 85 percent are currently occupied by renters.
The announcement doesn’t explain several important parts of the
program, Chang said, including if the property will be sold in
geographic or property-type portfolios; if there will be
financing; how the management will work; or what, if any, stake
 Fannie Mae  will retain.  One of the qualified investors is Waypoint Real Estate
Group, an Oakland,  California  company that owns more than 1,000
single-family rentals in that state. The properties were
acquired through distressed sales since 2009, including more
than 100 purchased in January, after Waypoint announced a $250
million commitment from GI Partners, an investment fund based in
 Menlo Park , California.  The Fannie Mae bulk sale is an “opportunity to be able to
buy a collection at scale in geographic markets,” said Gary Beasley, managing director of Waypoint.  Waypoint met with Fannie Mae and FHFA officials in January
to discuss the offering, Beasley said. At the time, the idea was
that Fannie Mae would sell to private investors and not retain a
stake, he said. He also said he hasn’t seen any indication that
Fannie Mae will offer financing.  Financing A Question  He has seen proposals circulated for comment by  Freddie Mac (FMCC) 
that would offer financing similar to what’s available for
multifamily properties, with lending based in part on the cash
flow of rental income rather than the value of the collateral,
Beasley said.  “Now nobody is making those loans for single-family homes
in the private sector,” he said.  Freddie Mac will “evaluate the pilot with our conservator
and make a decision after that,”  Brad German , a spokesman for
the McLean, Virginia-based mortgage company, said in a telephone
interview.  Today, California Attorney General  Kamala Harris  asked
DeMarco to suspend some foreclosures on Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac loans.  In a letter to DeMarco, Harris requested a suspension of
foreclosure sales in California for the more than 60 percent of
loans owned or guaranteed by Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac .  Harris wants the sales halted until “your agency has
completed a thorough, transparent analysis of whether principal
reduction is in the best interests of struggling homeowners as
well as taxpayers,” according to the Feb. 24 letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  