-- ‘The Artist’ Wins Top Oscar Honors in Bow to Silent Films
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-02-27T11:45:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/five-oscars-awarded-to-the-artist-mark-a-record-haul-for-a-french-movie.html
The five Oscars awarded to “The
Artist,” a black-and-white tribute to the silent-picture era,
marks a record for a French film as it beat out bigger-budget
movies with more famous stars.  The mostly silent film, judged the best picture, won  Michel
Hazanavicius  the award for best director.  Jean Dujardin  was
honored as best actor for playing George Valentin, an aging film
star unable to cut it in the talkies, making the 39-year-old
the first French actor to win the award.  The movie “seduced the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and
Sciences with its ingenuity and grace,” French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  said in a statement. The awards are a tribute to
the “extraordinary vitality” of the country’s film industry.  While French movies such as “Indochine” and “Preparez
Vos Mouchoirs” have won in the best-foreign-film category, this
is the first time one has won the overall award. The Artist,
which cost about $15 million to make, beat out more expensive
films with bigger stars in the best picture category such as
“Hugo,” Martin Scorsese’s first 3-D movie, “The
Descendants,” starring  George Clooney , “The Help” from
DreamWorks Studios and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  and Woody Allen’s
“Midnight in Paris.”  Dujardin beat Clooney,  Brad Pitt , who was nominated for his
role in “Moneyball” and  Gary Oldman  for “Tinker Tailor
Soldier Spy.”  The Artist, which focuses on an actor whose career is
threatened by the advent of talking pictures and the affection
of a young dancer working toward her big break, won three Golden
Globe awards last month. Dujardin won the best-actor trophy at
last year’s  Cannes Film Festival . The film was distributed by
Weinstein Co.  Dujardin  “I discovered that silent film is almost an advantage,”
Dujardin was quoted as saying by  The Internet Movie Database 
website. “You just have to think of the feeling for it to show.
No lines to pollute it. It doesn’t take much - a gaze, an
eyelash flutter - for the emotion to be vivid.”  Dujardin is in some ways an unlikely artist to bring home
the first French best-actor trophy, which has eluded the likes
of Gerard Depardieu.  Born in the suburban town of Rueil-Malmaison outside Paris,
he did his first one-man show in 1995 and became known in  France 
after starring as “Loulou” in the television series “Un Gars,
Une Fille” about the everyday life of a young middle-class
couple, according to  the IMDB  website.  He also starred in the 2005 comedy “Brice de Nice” about
a rich 30-year-old wanna-be surfer on the French Riviera waiting
for the perfect wave to come on the ever-calm  Mediterranean Sea .
Brice’s yellow hair and T-shirts gained cult status in France as
did his axe-like gesture symbolizing a put-down.  Courting Controversy  Dujardin’s upcoming film “Les Infideles,” scheduled to
open Feb. 29, has already created controversy in France after a
series of promotional posters were pulled by regulators for
being sexist and designed to shock. In one Dujardin, dressed in
a suit and tie, stands between a woman’s spread legs underneath
the caption “I’m going into a meeting.”  Meanwhile, as in past years at the Oscars, academy voters
shunned the year’s top-grossing films in their best-picture
nominations, focusing on lower-budget or less-seen movies.
“Hugo,” which tied with “The Artist” with five awards, was
the costliest, with a budget estimated at $170 million by the
Internet Movie Database.  Meryl Streep  won best actress for playing  Margaret Thatcher 
in “The  Iron Lady .”  Allen was honored for best original
screenplay for “Midnight in Paris,” about a writer who goes
back in time to meet Ernest Hemingway and  Pablo Picasso .  The Artist also won Oscars for best costume design and best
original score.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 Tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net  