-- For Dividend Income, Grab Your Passport
-- B y   C a r l a   F r i e d
-- 2012-02-27T22:35:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/for-dividend-income-grab-your-passport.html
     Income-starved investors have been showing plenty of love
lately for exchange-traded funds that focus on U.S. dividend
stocks. According to Bloomberg data, three of the 10
exchange-traded funds (ETFs) with the strongest 2011
inflows--a combined $8.7 billion--focus on U.S. dividend
stocks. With an average yield of 2.8 percent, it’s easy to see
the attraction. A 10-year Treasury yields 2.0 percent these
days.  If you’re diving for dividends only stateside, you’re
missing out on plenty, says Jeremy Schwartz, director of
research for the WisdomTree family of ETFs. Of $1 trillion in
dividend payments made last year among the 4,000 global stocks
tracked by WisdomTree, the U.S. accounted for just 25 percent
of the total. The 19 international dividend ETFs tracked by
Bloomberg have an average yield of just under 4 percent.  “International dividend stocks are an interesting place
for a yield investor to be,” says Alec Young, global equity
strategist at S&P Capital IQ. He notes that the combination of
the  Federal Reserve ’s continued suppression of  interest rates 
in the U.S. and stronger growth in some international regions
(think: emerging markets) makes dividend investing abroad
compelling for income seekers.  Here are some issues to consider if you want to tilt your
portfolio toward the $750 billion in dividends being paid
outside the U.S:  Check Your Funds. You may have more dividend exposure in
existing holdings than you realize. The $6.6 billion Vanguard
FTSE All-World ex-U.S. ETF (0.22 percent expense ratio), for
example, has a 3.1 percent yield without specifically trawling
for dividend payers.  Todd Rosenbluth , ETF analyst for S&P
IQ, notes that the ETF rates an “overweight” based on S&P IQ’s
analysis of the relative value of the underlying issues in the
portfolio. Nearly half the portfolio is invested in European
companies and another 40 percent is in  Asia . About 20 percent
is invested in emerging markets.  If the Euro mess has you worrying about dividend
stability among banks, you can find an ETF that strips them
out. The WisdomTree International Dividend ex-Financials ETF
(4.7 percent yield, 0.58 percent expense ratio) steers clear
of the sector.  High Yield, Higher Volatility. Three of the largest
international dividend ETFs are the SPDR S&P International
Dividend (6.6 percent yield, 0.45 percent expense
ratio), IShares Dow Jones International Select Dividend (5.0
percent yield, o.50 expense ratio) and PowerShares
International Dividend Achievers (3.1 percent yield, 0.50
percent expense ratio). All three seek out the
highest-yielding stocks within their chosen universe of
dividend payers. Keep in mind that high yields can mean higher
volatility. A struggling company with a low stock price will
likely have a higher yield, since to get the yield you divide
the annual cash payout by the stock price.  In the tumultuous third quarter of last year, the SPDR
S&P International Dividend portfolio slid 23 percent, vs. a 19
percent decline for the MSCI EAFE index. Long-term investors
have nonetheless fared well: The ETF’s 24 percent annualized
gain over the past three years outpaces the 19 percent gain
for the EAFE index. Tom Lydon of ETFTrends notes that the
PowerShares ETF does provide some quality control because it
only invests in stocks that have managed to increase their
dividend for the past five years.  Consider Targeted Exposure. Your generic international
dividend fund is likely to have a good shot of  emerging
markets  exposure--all the ETFs mentioned above, save the one
from Powershares, have about 19 percent of the portfolio in
emerging markets. If you want to add a bigger scoop of
emerging markets, Patricia Oey, who covers international ETFs
at Morningstar, says focusing on dividend payers can be a
risk-dampening way to fulfill your emerging markets
allocation. “Paying a dividend signals better corporate
governance,” she says. Schwartz of WisdomTree says average
dividend growth in emerging markets was 13.6 percent over the
past five years, compared to 5.5 percent in the U.S.  Over the past three years, the $3.2 billion WisdomTree
Emerging Markets Equity Income ETF (3.9 percent yield, 0.63
expense ratio) was 18 percent less volatile than a benchmark
index of emerging market stocks. In 2008 the portfolio of
about 300 stocks declined 35 percent, vs. the 43 percent
plunge for the benchmark index. And over the past three
years, its 32 percent annualized gain bests the 26 percent
average annualized gain for emerging market ETFs tracked by
Morningstar.  Focus on Cash Dividends Paid, Not Just Yield. Oey prefers
portfolios that weight holdings based on the size of the
actual annual cash dividend paid, rather than just the highest
current yield. WisdomTree follows the dividend-weighted
approach with its 10 international dividend ETFs. “That gives
you a slightly higher quality portfolio with a value tilt,”
says Oey.
 