-- Hungary Bond Yields Rise to Four-Week High on IMF Bailout Delays
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-02-27T16:15:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/forint-heads-for-2-week-low-as-bonds-drop-on-hungary-aid-concern.html
Hungary ’s government bonds dropped
to the lowest in four weeks and the forint weakened on concern
talks on a bailout from the European Union and  International
Monetary Fund  will face delays.  The yield on benchmark 10-year bonds fell 10 basis points,
or 0.10 percentage point, to 8.955 percent, the highest since
Jan 31. The currency depreciated as much as 0.6 percent and
traded 0.2 percent weaker at 291.8 per euro by 4:31 p.m. in
Budapest.  Hungary didn’t receive any indication of dates in
preliminary meetings preparing bailout negotiations, central
bank President Andras Simor said in an interview with news
website Origo published late yesterday. A European Commission
plan to cut Hungary’s development subsidies is “credit
negative” and “complicates” talks on an IMF-led loan, Moody’s
Investors Service said in an e-mailed report today.  “The ‘pre-talks’ and then the actual talks could drag on
for quite some time,” Martin Blum, Vienna-based co-head of
asset management at Ithuba Capital, wrote in an e-mailed
response to questions from Bloomberg today. “Hungarian assets
are not attractive at current levels.”  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  is trying to revive bailout
talks with the EU and the IMF, which he requested in November
after the forint fell to a record against the euro and as rating
companies, including Moody’s, cut Hungary’s sovereign credit
grade to junk. Talks broke down in December after the EU and the
IMF said a new law may undermine central bank independence.  “Risks of negotiations dragging on longer than expected
are skewed to the downside,” Mai Doan, a London-based economist
at Bank of America Corp., wrote in a research report today. “We
remain cautious for now.”  The commission, the EU’s executive arm, proposed on Feb. 22
to suspend 495 million euros ($665 million) in development
subsidies to press Hungary to narrow its  budget deficit .  The cost of insuring against default on Hungary’s debt with
credit-default swaps rose six basis points to 518, according to
data provider CMA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  