-- Ohio Fracking Foes Push Water Safety, Republicans Tout Jobs
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-02-28T18:11:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/fracking-opponents-clash-with-republicans-in-ohio-urge-u-s-ban.html
House Republicans  went to eastern
Ohio touting hydraulic fracturing to add U.S. jobs and cut fuel
costs. Instead, lawmakers met skeptical residents, highlighting
the divide over environmental concerns about fracking.  While Oklahoma City-based  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) , the
second-largest U.S. natural-gas producer, and  Hess Corp. (HES)  of  New
York  seek well permits, some Ohio residents are demanding a ban
until fracking is better researched and regulated.  “Shale drilling and the disposal of its waste products are
an imminent threat to my livelihood,” Christine Hughes, owner
of the Village Bakery and Catalyst Cafe in  Athens , Ohio, said at
the hearing yesterday. “No one has done a study to find out the
impact of devastating this local food economy.”  Fracking in Ohio, which sits on a portion of the nation’s
biggest shale formation, called Marcellus, is pitting residents
against drilling companies over the concerns of environmental
safety and job creation. The state is studying 11 temblors last
year near Youngstown.  Hughes’s complaints were made to a House Natural Resources
subcommittee hearing in Steubenville, located 40 miles (64
kilometers) west of Pittsburgh. The hearing included officials
of the state and energy industry, who said standards have been
introduced to ensure fracking is done safely.  U.S. Representative  Bill Johnson , a Republican representing
counties along the border with  Pennsylvania  and  West Virginia ,
said at the hearing that fracking in Ohio may help create
200,000 jobs.  Rock Blasting  In fracking, companies blast shale with water, sand and
chemicals thousands of feet underground to release trapped gas.
The technique led to a record output of natural gas and pushed
down prices of the fuel used for heating and power generation.
It also triggered complaints about polluted drinking water.  Contamination of a water well in Bainbridge Township, Ohio,
in 2007, cited by residents in their protests, was caused by
poor well design, not fracking, Tom Stewart, executive vice
president of Ohio Oil and Gas Association, said today in an
interview at the hearing.  Ohio  has strengthened well-design requirements to avoid
similar accidents, he said.  The value of production from Ohio’s portion of the shale
formation will increase to $9.6 billion in 2014, support 65,680
jobs and add $4.9 billion to the state’s economic output, the
Ohio Shale Coalition said today in releasing a study by
researchers at three state colleges.  ‘Very Conservative’  The estimate doesn’t account for “downstream” benefits in
industries using oil and gas for operations, Ned Hill, dean of
the Levin College of Urban Affairs at Cleveland State University
and a member of the study team, said during a news conference in
Columbus. “We believe that this is a very, very responsible and
very conservative modeling effort,” he said.  The drilling boom spurred more permits for disposal wells
in Ohio during the past two years than during the previous
decade combined. The volume injected was on a near-record pace
last year, according to the Department of Natural Resources, and
more than half was from out of state. That included 92.6 percent
of the water sent to a Youngstown well closed last year after 11
nearby earthquakes.  The Ohio Natural Resources Department is reviewing data
from the earthquakes, near an injection well used for disposing
fracking wastewater. No quakes had been recorded there before.  ‘Stop This Madness’  “It’s time to stop this madness,” said Susie
Beiersdorfer, a geologist from Youngstown. “When people ask
where they can live that they will be safe -- you’ve got to find
a place where there isn’t any shale underneath.”  Beiersdorfer joined about a dozen state residents at the
hearing urging a ban on the practice at least until the
Environmental Protection Agency completes its study on fracking,
which is by 2014.  Ohio has the expertise, budget and staff to properly
oversee the natural-gas industry and prevent accidents, and
responds in 24 hours to all citizen complains, Richard Simmers,
chief of the division of oil and gas resources management at the
Ohio Department of Natural Resources, said during the hearing.  The EPA and the Interior Department, which plans its own
rules on fracking-well design, need to “stay out of”
regulating fracking, Johnson said in an interview after the
hearing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  