-- France Telecom Shows Orange-Branded Handset With Intel Chip
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-02-27T21:38:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/france-telecom-preps-orange-branded-smartphone-with-intel-chip.html
France Telecom SA (FTE) ’s Orange unit will
begin selling a smartphone based on an  Intel Corp. (INTC)  processor
this year, helping the chipmaker in its decade-long attempt to
break into the mobile-device market.  The phone will be showcased this week at the Mobile World
Congress in Barcelona, and go on sale in the summer in France
and the U.K., the companies said. The Orange-branded device is
designed by Intel and runs on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software.  With the French Telecom deal, Intel is building on an
announcement in January that  Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. (MMI)  and
 Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  will start using its processors in smartphones
this year. France Telecom, that nation’s largest phone company,
said it wants a high performing phone under its Orange brand to
encourage more use of mobile Internet services.  “We are very happy about the way it came out,” Patrick Remy, vice president of devices for France Telecom’s Orange
business, said in an interview. “We really wanted to bring in
this high-performance, high-speed element.”  Remy said the phone will be offered at a price that appeals
to those who can afford entry-level phone plans, helping the
Paris-based company target the 50 percent of its customers who
don’t use a smartphone. Pricing and the name of the device will
be announced when it goes on sale, he said.  Other Partnerships  In a presentation by Chief Executive Officer  Paul Otellini 
today at the mobile-industry conference, Intel also said China’s
 ZTE Corp. (763)  will begin selling phones and tablet computers based
on the U.S. company’s processors. The first Intel-based
smartphone from ZTE will come to market in the second half of
the year. In India, Lava International Ltd. will also begin
using Intel products to make smartphones for what Otellini
described as the fastest-growing large market for the devices.  In another partnership, Intel announced that  Visa Inc. (V)  has
certified Intel’s reference design -- the basis of its new
mobile customers’ products -- to work with Visa’s phone-based
transaction systems. The two companies will begin a multiyear
accord, Visa President John Partridge said.  Smartphone Shift  Intel  rose  23 percent in the past 12 months of  New York 
trading, outpacing a 3 percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index. France Telecom  dropped  27 percent as the European
government-debt crisis contributed to declining earnings.  France Telecom slipped less than 1 percent today to 11.72
euros at on the Paris exchange. Intel rose 0.7 percent to $26.89
at the close in New York.  Orange is aiming to  increase  the portion of phones it sells
that carry its brand. ZTE, Huawei Technologies Co.,  Alcatel-
Lucent (ALU)  and  Gigabyte Technology Co. (2376)  build devices for the company
that are sold under the Orange name. The goal is to have those
phones comprise 20 percent of the total in 2012, up from 15
percent last year.  The phone company faces declining profit in Europe, where
revenues are stalling amid competition. Selling a self-branded
phone may help Orange limit the subsidies it has to pay to
market  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and other smartphones to customers at
cheaper prices.  Orange, which also markets a multimedia tablet of its own
brand, would consider extending its partnership with Intel into
other products, Remy said.  ‘Big Deal’  The market for mobile-phone chips will rise 40 percent to
$29.9 billion by 2015, according to Mountain View, California-
based  Linley Group . Handset chips are outpacing the personal-
computer processor industry, where  Santa Clara , California-based
Intel controls more than 80 percent of sales, according to Cave
Creek, Arizona-based Mercury Research.  The new Orange handset is based on an Intel smartphone
reference design built around a version of its Atom processor.
The device will carry the “Intel Inside” label. Orange, the
first mobile operator to use Intel chips for phones, is getting
an exclusive, according to the chipmaker. Intel has previously
announced deals with  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  that
didn’t result in phones going on sale.  “It’s a really big deal for us,” said Mike Bell, vice
president and general manager of Intel’s Mobile and
Communications Group. “We certainly don’t plan for this to be a
one-off.”  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , the largest maker of communications chips
that run phones, is fighting  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ,  Texas
Instruments Inc. (TXN)  and  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  for leadership of the market
for processors that run programs on the phones. There are no
phones now on sale that use Intel applications processors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  