-- G-20 Finance Chiefs Joint Statement After Mexico Meeting (Text)
-- B y
-- 2012-02-27T01:35:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/g-20-finance-chiefs-joint-statement-after-mexico-meeting-text-.html
Following is a reformatted version
of a joint statement by Group of 20 finance ministers and
central bank governors after their gathering in Mexico City.
Mexican officials posted the communique today on their website
for the year’s G-20 events.  1. We, the G-20 Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors,
met to address ongoing economic and financial challenges and to
agree on a way forward to fulfill the mandates given to us by
our Leaders.  2. Substantial policy actions have taken place since our last
meeting, and recent economic developments point to the
continuation of a modest global recovery and an easing in global
financial market stress. We welcome the important progress made
by  Europe  in recent months to strengthen their fiscal positions,
adopt measures to reduce financial stress, build stronger
institutions, implement growth enhancing structural reforms and
to put  Greece  on a sustainable path. We also welcome the market
improvement associated with the actions undertaken by the ECB.
Nevertheless, growth expectations for 2012 are moderate and
downside risks continue to be high. The international economic
environment has continued to be characterized by an uneven
performance, with weak growth in advanced economies and a
stronger, albeit slowing, expansion in  emerging markets .
Structural problems, insufficient global rebalancing, a
persistent development gap and high levels of public and private
indebtedness and uncertainty continue weighing on medium-term
global growth prospects. While volatility in international
financial markets has declined, it generally remains high and we
are committed to further reduce downside risks. We are alert to
the risks of higher  oil prices  and welcome the commitment by
producing countries to continue to ensure adequate supply. With
unemployment still too high in many countries, we are firmly
committed to supporting growth and job creation.  3. The Cannes Action Plan for growth and jobs established
significant commitments toward achieving our goal of strong,
sustainable and balanced growth. We are making progress in
implementing these commitments, which remain fully relevant. We
agreed today to enhance monitoring and accountability to ensure
that our commitments are achieved, including on fiscal,
financial, structural, monetary and exchange rate, trade and
development policies as mandated by our Leaders in Cannes. To
update our policy actions towards our common goals, we further
agreed to develop a Los Cabos Action Plan. Recognizing that
employment and social inclusion are at the heart of our actions,
we look forward to receive the report by international
organizations on how the G-20 framework can contribute to  job
creation . We will review our progress when we meet in April.  4. G-20 members have been actively engaged in taking the steps
needed to safeguard the global financial system and to avoid
adverse scenarios. At Cannes, our Leaders asked us to review the
adequacy of IMF resources. This review is particularly important
against the backdrop of continued downside risks. Euro area
countries will reassess the strength of their support facilities
in March. This will provide an essential input in our ongoing
consideration to mobilize resources to the IMF.  5. We are reviewing options, as requested by Leaders, to ensure
resources for the IMF could be mobilized in a timely manner. We
reaffirmed our commitment that the IMF should remain a quota-
based institution and agreed that a feasible way to increase IMF
resources in the short-run is through bilateral borrowing and
note purchase agreements with a broad range of IMF members.
These resources will be available for the whole membership of
the IMF, and not earmarked for any particular region. Adequate
risk mitigation features and conditionality would apply, as
approved by the IMF Board. Progress on this strategy will be
reviewed at the next Ministerial meeting in April. Other options
mentioned by Leaders in Cannes such as SDRs are under review.  6. We will continue working towards the reform of the quota and
governance of the IMF, in line with the commitments made in
Seoul and Cannes. To this end, the G-20 members reaffirmed their
commitment to implement in full the 2010 Governance and Quota
Reform by the agreed date of the 2012 IMF/ World Bank  Annual
Meeting, and to a comprehensive review of the quota formula to
better reflect economic weights by January 2013 and the
completion of the next general review of quotas by January 2014.
Also, the G-20 will contribute to the ongoing process to
strengthen the surveillance framework of the IMF, providing its
input into considering proposals for a new surveillance decision
that includes more effective integration of bilateral and
multilateral surveillance.  7. In order to avoid new systemic risks, we reaffirm our
commitment to common global standards by pursuing the financial
regulatory reform agenda according to our agreed timetable in an
internationally consistent and non-discriminatory manner. We
will monitor its full and timely implementation in all
jurisdictions through the FSB Coordination Framework for
Implementation Monitoring. This agenda includes  Basel II , II.5
and III, the reforms on OTC derivatives markets, the policy
measures to address systemically important financial
institutions, including the Key Attributes for Effective
Resolution Regimes, and the principles and standards for sound
compensation practices. We encourage the work that is underway
on systemic financial market infrastructures, including
safeguards to promote central clearing, on strengthening the
oversight and regulation of shadow banking activities and on the
global governance framework for the legal entity identifier. We
welcome the FSB progress report on reducing reliance on external
credit ratings and encourage further progress by national
authorities and standard setting bodies in this area. We also
welcome the establishment of the Working Group on FSB Capacity,
Resources and Governance and look forward to its recommendations
for placing the FSB on an enduring organizational footing, with
legal personality and greater financial autonomy, while
maintaining strong links with the BIS. We have tasked the FSB to
coordinate, with the IMF and World Bank, a study to identify the
extent to which the agreed regulatory reforms may have
unintended consequences for EMDEs.  8. As an important complement of the G-20 financial regulation
agenda, we agreed to follow through on the five recommendations
of the 2011 Global Partnership for Financial Inclusion report,
endorsed in Cannes, and take the financial inclusion agenda
forward towards concrete results. We also agreed towork on three
areas to foster financial inclusion. First, by sharing the
experiences of G-20 and non-G-20 countries under the “G-20
Financial Inclusion Peer Learning Program”, and developing an
implementation framework for country commitments for financial
inclusion. Second, by recognizing the importance and relevance
of the work that the OECD and the International Network on
Financial Education (INFE), and the World Bank have been doing
on financial education as well as the development of the High
Level Principles on National Strategies of Financial Education
by the Los Cabos Summit. Third, advancing the financial consumer
protection agenda by developing effective approaches to support
implementation of the High Level Principles endorsed in Cannes.  9. We look forward to a report to our Leaders by the Global
Forum on Transparency and Exchange of Information on progress
made and on a new set of reviews. We call upon all countries to
join the Global Forum on transparency and to sign on the
Multilateral Convention on Mutual Assistance. We call for an
interim report and update by the OECD on necessary steps to
improve comprehensive information exchange, including automatic
exchange of information and, together with the FATF, on steps
taken to prevent the misuse of corporate vehicles and improve
interagency cooperation in the fight against illicit activities.
We welcome the adoption of the revised FATF recommendations on
combating  money laundering  and the financing of terrorism. We
also welcome the ongoing work by the FSB on adherence to
supervisory and regulatory information exchange and cooperation
standards.  10. We agree to build on previous work by the G-20 and to draw
inputs from the international organizations to produce a report
on the effects of commodity price volatility on economic growth.
The report should assess policy options that countries could
consider that would reduce excessive commodity price volatility
or otherwise mitigate the effects on growth and on the wellbeing
of vulnerable sections of the population, or seize opportunities
for economic growth that commodity markets present. We look
forward to IOSCO’s report on the implementation of its
recommendations on commodity derivatives markets by our November
meeting. We reaffirm our commitments to improve JODI-Oil
database and work on applying the same principles to JODI-Gas,
to facilitate energy market producer and consumer dialogue, to
improve transparency on gas and coal markets, to improve the
functioning and oversight of oil price reporting agencies, and
to rationalize and phase out over the medium term inefficient
fossil fuel subsidies, while providing targeted support for the
poorest and report on progress made.  11. Recognizing the importance of “green growth” we ask the OECD,
with the World Bank and the UN, to prepare a report that
provides options for G-20 countries on inserting green growth
and sustainable development policies into structural reform
agendas, tailored to specific country conditions and level of
development. We will contribute to the preparation of the report
by voluntarily informing on our actions to integrate green
growth and sustainable development into structural reform
agendas. We will continue to work on climate finance and report
to our Leaders in June.  12. We recognize the value of Disaster Risk Management (DRM)
tools and strategies to better prevent disasters, protect
populations and assets, and financially manage their economic
impacts. We also acknowledge the need to expand its use. To that
end, we have asked the World Bank to prepare a compilation of
country experiences and the OECD to recommend a framework that
countries may use for the implementation of DRM strategies.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at +81-3-3201-7553 or  canstey@bloomberg.net 
