-- Gehry Banishes Off-Broadway’s Dreariness With Signature Center
-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 2012-02-27T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/gehry-banishes-off-broadway-s-dreariness-with-signature-center.html
Frank Gehry  has built one of New
York’s best new off-Broadway theaters, the Alice Griffin Jewel
Box, as a scaled-down opera house.  It’s one of the three spacious yet intimate theaters Gehry
designed for the  Pershing Square Signature Center , a 70,000-
square-foot complex tucked into the base of a behemoth
residential tower west of Times Square.  Among the three, the Griffin especially offers a respite
from Broadway’s preference for overamplified blare and Vegas
stage tricks. Witness its production of Athol Fugard’s “Blood
Knot,” the sort of work that often ends up in a basement space
with folding chairs and actors dodging water pipes.  At the Griffin, where the 199 seats arc in a cozy
horseshoe, you could appreciate the two actors’ every whisper
and facial expression from any part of the house. Yet there’s
plenty of room for the actors to roam.  Related Companies, the building’s developer, made room for
a full fly tower. It’s tempting to think of a musical or
intimate opera in this room.  James Houghton founded the Signature Theatre in 1991, in a
tiny 79-seat studio that he shared with calligraphy classes.
Dedicating himself to the work of living playwrights, he has
devoted seasons to Paula Vogel, Tony Kushner and Horton Foote,
among others.  Gehry’s Roots  Gehry, 82, returns to the roots of his practice, conjuring
cheerfully informal sculptured spaces in faceted planes of
humble plywood. His firm worked with the  New York  architect  H3
Hardy Collaboration .  He and Houghton first began discussing a venue that would
rise on the site of the World Trade Center downtown. Years of
delay and costs spiraling to $700 million put an end to that
dream. Working within 70,000 square feet, the project came in at
$66 million.  A stairway makes an angular pirouette as it brings patrons
up from the street to an airy lobby with a ceiling of suspended
overlapping plywood planes and ample room to mingle.
Playwrights’ giant painted likenesses preside genially from high
walls.  Such simple theatrical gestures avoid the ubiquitous tired
industrial look of off-Broadway that makes theatergoing seem
dutiful rather than exciting.  Going from one theater to three allows Houghton and
executive director Erika Mallin to expand the resident
playwright program to include five-year partnerships. A
fundraising campaign led by actor  Edward Norton  keeps ticket
prices at $25.  ‘Hurt Village’  I stepped into the Romulus Linney Courtyard Theatre, which
looked like a candy-colored construction site. For Katori Hall’s
“Hurt Village,” set in a doomed public-housing project, the
set decorators created artful disarray inspired by the look of
the theater before it was finished.  It is a high-ceilinged black box with a flat floor and
seating tiers that can be configured in several ways, changing
the audience’s relationship to the action. For Hall’s play,
patrons sit on two sides facing the actors in the middle.  Overlapping plywood panels, suggesting a dislocated jigsaw
puzzle, cover the side and back walls of the 299-seat End Stage
theater. The architectural panels are stained brown near the
stage, then fade to a natural red as they go back, blurring the
boundary between stage and audience.  A sleek living-room set for  Edward Albee ’s “The Lady from
Dubuque” suggests a chilly smugness about to be shattered.  With extraordinary acting and writing offered nightly on
tiny stages all over New York, I wish they could all have rooms
equal to the Signature’s.  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of Bloomberg News. He is the author of “The
Agile City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in New York at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  http://web.me.com/jscanlonrussell   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 