-- German Stocks Decline; Volkswagen, Daimler, Deutsche Lufthansa Retreat
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-02-27T16:57:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/german-stocks-decline-volkswagen-daimler-deutsche-lufthansa-retreat.html
Most  German stocks  declined, erasing
last week’s advance as the Group of 20 nations rejected the euro
area’s call to increase International Monetary Fund resources.  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and rival automakers dropped on a report that
 China ’s government plans to stop buying foreign cars.  Deutsche
Lufthansa AG (LHA) , Europe’s second-biggest airline, slipped after
canceling flights.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  decreased 14.83, or 0.2 percent, to 6,849.60
at the close in Frankfurt. The index has still gained 16 percent
so far this year as euro-area leaders took measures to contain
the region’s debt crisis and as U.S. economic data exceeded
estimates. The broader HDAX Index lost 0.3 percent.  “All of the good news is known and now we’re starting to
see negative economic and political news,” said Yves Maillot,
the head of investments at Robeco Gestions in Paris, who helps
oversee $6.8 billion. “In  Europe , there is opposition to the
aid package. There is an ensemble of elements that makes the
market hard to handle.”  G-20 officials told the euro area’s political leaders to
provide more financial firepower before they would consider
lending outside support, putting the funding onus on Germany,
already the biggest national contributor to the bailouts.  Germany went to the Mexico meetings of finance ministers
and central bankers urging G-20 nations to find additional money
for the IMF that could be channeled to the euro area.  IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde , who attended the
talks, said she wants to increase the fund’s lending capacity by
$500 billion so that it can fend off “further shocks” to the
global economy.  German Vote  Germany ’s lower house of parliament approved a second euro
region Greek bailout package worth 130 billion euros ($174
billion). The Bundestag voted 496 in favor of the measure; 90
voted against, while 5 abstained in Berlin today.  Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government must decide whether
to back plans at a March 1-2 European Union summit to combine
rescue funds and produce a potential firewall of 750 billion
euros.  Before today’s vote, Merkel said there’s no guarantee that
 Greece ’s second bailout will work as she urged lawmakers to
approve the rescue while pushing back against an increase in
euro firewall funds.  Automakers Fall  Volkswagen’s (VOW)  preferred shares lost 0.7 percent to 138.35
euros. China’s government plans to stop buying cars from
Volkswagen’s Audi and other foreign brands, threatening to lock
them out of an estimated $13 billion segment of the world’s
biggest vehicle market.  All 412 models approved for purchase by state agencies this
year will be Chinese brands, according to a proposal disclosed
by the Ministry of Industry and  Information Technology  last
week. The preliminary list is open for public consultation until
March 9, according to the ministry.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the world’s largest maker of
 luxury vehicles , retreated 1.8 percent to 69.04 euros.  Daimler
AG (DAI) , the third-biggest maker of luxury cars, declined 2.9 percent
to 46.09 euros.  Porsche SE’s preferred shares gained 3.1 percent to 50.07
euros after people familiar with Volkswagen’s plan to buy the
rest of the sportscar maker’s automotive business said the deal
is almost done.  Lufthansa Declines  Lufthansa (LHA)  slid 2.4 percent to 10.17 euros, its lowest price
in more than a month. The airline canceled 140 of today’s
flights as Frankfurt Airport’s ground controllers resumed  strike
action  following the failure of talks over pay and the
outsourcing of contracts.  KUKA AG (KU2) , which manufactures production equipment, sank 2.7
percent to 16.90 euros. The stock was cut to  “hold” (KU2)  from
“buy” at Berenberg Bank Schweiz AG.  Merck KGaA (MRK) , a maker of drugs and chemicals, retreated 2.6
percent to 77.43 euros. Kepler Capital Markets SA and Equinet
Bank AG both cut the shares to “reduce” from “hold.”  Wirecard AG (WDI) , which offers Internet payment and processing
services, gained 3.4 percent to 14.77 euros. Barclays Plc
forecast a three-year earnings-per-share compound annual growth
rate close to 20 percent and reiterated its “overweight”
recommendation on the stock.  Aixtron SE, which makes equipment for the semiconductor
industry, slid 3.6 percent to 12.26 euros after Deutsche Bank AG
reduced its 2012 earnings before interest and taxes forecast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  