-- Bild Newspaper Calls On German Lawmakers to Reject Greek Bailout Package
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-02-27T11:23:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/germany-s-bild-newspaper-urges-lawmakers-to-reject-greek-bailout-package.html
Germany ’s best-selling Bild
newspaper called on lawmakers  to reject  the Greek bailout
package, placing pressure on legislators as they vote today on
whether to approve the measures amid growing public discontent.  Exhorting parliament members to “Stop!” in a front-page
headline, the  Axel Springer AG (SPR) -owned newspaper capitalized on
public distaste over the 130 billion-euro ($174 billion) rescue
package, the second in two years. Bild yesterday reported that
62 percent of Germans want lawmakers to vote down the package,
versus 33 percent who approve, according to a poll.  “Today is once again payday in the German Bundestag,”
Bild wrote on its front page, referring to Berlin’s lower house
of parliament. “Don’t go down this false path,” it said.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  will probably win a majority for
the Greek package because it’s backed by the opposition Social
Democrats and Greens. The funds are part of efforts by European
leaders seeking to stave off a collapse of Greece’s economy and
win time to resolve the region’s debt crisis now in its third
year. Merkel is due to address the Bundestag at 3 p.m. local
time.  Merkel’s Christian Democratic-led bloc and its Free
Democratic Party coalition partner have a 20-seat majority in
the 620-seat Bundestag. Support should be ensured with the
backing of opposition SPD and Green lawmakers, who together have
222 seats in the assembly.  Wolfgang Bosbach , a lawmaker in Merkel’s  Christian
Democratic Union , said last week the chancellor would win a
majority in her coalition, even though he planned to vote
against the bill.  ‘Buying Time’  “I don’t doubt that we’re buying time, but we’re doing
more to add to the problem rather than making it better,”
Bosbach said in an interview on Feb. 23. “Until now, none of
our expectations have been fulfilled.”  That view was amplified by Bild, which cited 10 economists,
including Hans-Werner Sinn, head of the Munich-based  Ifo
Institute , speaking out against further aid.  Interior Minister  Hans-Peter Friedrich  became the first
German Cabinet member to raise the prospect of a Greek departure
from the euro area. Friedrich told  Der Spiegel  in an interview
that while  Greece  shouldn’t be expelled from the monetary union,
it would have better chances outside the area.  While depictions of German policy makers in Nazi uniforms
have appeared in Greek newspapers, Bild, often a barometer of
German public sentiment, has had a series of front-page
headlines decrying rescue efforts for Greece. A headline last
November read: “Take the euro away from the Greeks!”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  