-- Germany Faces State Calls to Adjust Solar Subsidy Reduction Plan
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-02-27T14:38:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/germany-faces-state-calls-to-adjust-solar-subsidy-reduction-plan.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
government is facing calls from the opposition and a state
premier from her own party to amend plans to reduce solar energy
subsidies amid mounting concern that the cuts may drive domestic
companies out of business.  Reiner Haseloff, the state premier of Saxony-Anhalt and a
member of Merkel’s  Christian Democrats , said the government’s
proposal to lower subsidies by a record as early as March 9
threatens domestic solar companies. His call was backed by the
opposition  Green Party , which said in a statement today that it
asked the Bundestag, the lower house of Parliament, to schedule
a debate over the cuts that “threaten entire regions.”  “We need to urgently intervene politically so that what is
planned won’t happen,” Haseloff said in a  video message . He
urged state leaders from Brandenburg, Saxony, Thuringia and
Bavaria who have backed solar energy in the past to join Saxony-
Anhalt in seeking to change “deadlines and feed-in tariffs, and
protect ongoing projects.”  Merkel wants to reduce by half annual solar installations
after incentives for the industry pushed capacity past
government targets even as she proceeds with plans to encourage
renewable energy to replace nuclear power stations that close by
2022.  Companies including  Solarworld AG (SWV) , the country’s largest
solar panel maker, have protested a plan to lower subsidies by
as much as 29 percent from March 9 and to subsequently scale
these back each month, starting in May.  Solar ‘Compromise’  “I think the government will have to weaken some of the
cuts on the massive protests from the industry and opposition
politicians,” Sebastian Zank, an analyst at Silvia Quandt
Research in  London , said today by phone. “There will have to be
a compromise.”  The cuts are deeper than the 15 percent reduction ordered
on Jan. 1 and may also hurt manufactures such as Conergy AG and
 Q-Cells SE (QCE) , whose shares have fallen 67 percent and 41 percent
this year, respectively. Merkel’s Cabinet of ministers is
expected to vote on the proposals in its next meeting on Feb.
29.  European countries including the U.K.,  Italy  and  France 
have accelerated cuts for solar subsidies in the past year to
adapt to falling product prices and limit runaway growth. Solar
panel prices fell 46 percent last year after Asian manufacturers
led by Suntech Power Holdings Co. boosted production.  Environment Minister Norbert Roettgen said the proposals
are meant to rein in costs linked to new installations. “We
want photovoltaic energy, but it has to grow at a reasonable
level,” he said on Feb. 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  