-- Gillard Clears Legacy of 2010 Unease in Australia Labor Leadership Victory
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-02-28T06:34:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/gillard-clears-legacy-of-2010-unease-in-australia-labor-leadership-victory.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s re-election as leader of the ruling  Labor party  may
defuse public unease over how she came to power, giving greater
scope to build voter support ahead of elections due next year.  Gillard’s 71-to-31 victory over  Kevin Rudd  in a party vote
put a stamp on her position after the June 2010 uncontested race
that followed Rudd’s ouster by Labor colleagues. Avoiding a
public explanation of Rudd’s shortcomings last time was “an
error, and it made it very difficult for the Australian public
to understand what happened,” she said after yesterday’s win.  The next opportunities to galvanize the party come with the
prime minister’s plans for a cabinet reshuffle and the
government’s annual budget, due in May. Gillard sought to
underscore differences with opposition chief Tony Abbott
yesterday, pledging to implement an unprecedented levy on  carbon
emissions  and pursuing an overhaul of health insurance.  “There’s no doubt about it -- Julia Gillard has now twice
convincingly defeated Kevin Rudd,” said  Malcolm Mackerras , a
political analyst at the Australian Catholic University in
Canberra. “There’s a real contest between Gillard and Abbott
now, and while I would still say Abbott is more likely to win,
it is a real contest.”  A poll released yesterday showed while Labor has narrowed a
gap with Abbott’s Liberal-National coalition, it remains behind.
The shortfall shrank by 4 percentage points from earlier this
month to 10 percentage points in the Newspoll survey. The
government’s 35 percent support was the highest in almost a
year.  Dollar Slips  The Australian currency rose as much as 0.2 percent to
$1.0784, the highest since Feb. 20, before trading at $1.078 at
5:03 p.m. in Sydney. The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index, which
retreated 0.9 percent yesterday, closed 0.1 percent lower.
Yields on 10-year  government bonds  declined 6 basis points, or
0.06 percentage point, to 3.98 percent, Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices showed.  With Rudd sidelined, Gillard, 50, undertakes her second
reshuffle of ministers in three months, with Rudd’s former post
of foreign minister needing a permanent replacement. The prime
minister, a former labor attorney, gave no indication she’ll
take retribution on supporters of Rudd, a Chinese-speaking
former diplomat who headed the government 2007-2010.  Resources Minister Martin Ferguson, Infrastructure and
Transport Minister Anthony Albanese, Immigration Minister  Chris
Bowen  and Manufacturing Minister  Kim Carr  had indicated before
yesterday’s vote that they intended to back Rudd.  Gillard yesterday said at a news conference that decisions
will be made “in coming days,” and that “my focus will be on
having a team based on merit and the ability to take the fight
up on behalf of Labor to our conservative opponents.”  Media Focus  The caucus vote was the culmination of months of tension
within the party that escalated when Gillard, in an interview
with the Australian Broadcasting Corp. this month, declined to
specify whether she knew her staff was preparing, two weeks
before Rudd’s 2010 overthrow, a victory speech that she
subsequently delivered.  Local media’s continued focus on the 2010 drama was also
evidenced in September, when Gillard said she was “not going
anywhere” in the wake of News Ltd. newspapers reporting that
senior government figures they didn’t identify urged her to
quit.  Rudd’s downfall came amid declining poll ratings in the
aftermath of proposing a 40 percent tax on “super profits” of
resource projects in  Australia  that some in his own party
opposed, and after he shelved a plan for a carbon-trading
system.  ‘Humiliate’ Rudd  Attorney General  Nicola Roxon , a Gillard supporter, said
last week that Labor colleagues at the time desisted from
detailing Rudd’s shortcomings out of a desire not to
“humiliate” him. “In the long run we would have done better
to discuss those issues at the time,” she said.  Abbott, 54, a volunteer lifeguard and former amateur boxer
who once studied for the priesthood, yesterday kept up his
pressure for an election. The last one, in August 2010, was the
closest since 1940, and left neither of the main groups with a
majority. Gillard, the first female prime minister, assembled a
coalition with independent lawmakers and the  Green party .  “The only way that we can get real change in this country
is with an election,” Abbott said at a press conference.  Abbott yesterday called on the independents who support the
government to indicate they would back a no-confidence motion,
which if successful could force an early election. His coalition
has pledged to scrap the carbon-emission plan, and a tax on
mining that Gillard won passage of in the lower house, after she
brought BHP Billiton Ltd., Rio Tinto Group and other  iron-ore 
and coal producers into negotiations.  Abbott Question Marks  The opposition leader has failed to sell his own candidacy
for government leadership to the public, with the Newspoll
showing 57 percent of voters were dissatisfied with his
performance. Gillard still trails Abbott by 36 percent to 38
percent as preferred prime minister. The poll of 1,152 people
had a margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points.  “There are question marks over  Tony Abbott  as leader,”
said  Andrew Hughes , who conducts political-marketing research at
Australian National University in Canberra. “How much further
ahead would the coalition be if they had a popular leader?”  Meantime, Rudd’s pledge to support Gillard through the next
election failed to convince all observers. Haydon Manning, an
associate professor in the Department of Politics and Public
Policy at Flinders University in Adelaide, said “I can’t see
him sitting quietly on the backbench. He’ll try to keep himself
in the front of the minds of the Australian voters.”  Unfinished Agenda  The prime minister’s unfinished agenda includes submitting
the mining tax for final approval to the Senate, where the Green
party holds the balance of power, and assembling a national
disability-insurance program. The administration plans
legislation for the rollout of a A$36 billion ($38 billion)
government-owned high speed Internet network.  Also on the list: measures to strengthen the domestic
shipping industry through tax incentives for Australian-
registered vessels, parliamentary documents show. Parliament
goes on a six-week hiatus from March 22.  As the new Cabinet prepares its budget, pressure may come
from companies hurt by exchange-rate gains. The currency has
risen 45 percent against the dollar in the past five years,
propelled by a mining boom predicted to last decades as the
urbanization of hundreds of millions of people in  China  and
 India  drives demand for iron ore, liquefied natural gas and
coal.  Bold Government  BlueScope Steel Ltd., the country’s largest steel producer,
in August shuttered its export division. Toyota Motor Corp. and
General Motors Co. have cut jobs in Australia this year, citing
the currency’s strength. Alcoa Inc. is reviewing the future of
an aluminum smelter.  “Resisting the ‘siren song’ from struggling non-mining
sectors of the economy seeking assistance would be a challenge
for even the most popular government,” said James McIntyre, a
senior economist in Sydney at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia .  Another challenge will be maintaining the cohesion of an
administration lacking a majority.  “Given the extraordinary difficulties placed on the
minority government in negotiating legislation through
parliament, it’s been an effective government and a fairly
courageous one,” said Norman Abjorensen, a political analyst at
 Australian National University  in Canberra. The leadership
speculation hurt her ability to get her message through, he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  