-- Gillard Defeats Rudd in Australian Leadership Ballot
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-02-27T03:06:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/gillard-defeats-rudd-in-australia-labor-ballot.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  defeated predecessor  Kevin Rudd  in a leadership ballot,
leaving her to unite the ruling  Labor party  and revive its
lagging poll ratings before elections due in 2013.  Gillard won 71 votes to Rudd’s 31 in today’s ballot of
party lawmakers, Labor official Chris Hayes said. Rudd, who
resigned as foreign minister last week as he sought to reclaim
the nation’s top job, said he accepted the result and would
fully support the prime minister.  After weeks of political infighting, Gillard, 50, needs to
heal the party as her government aims to implement unprecedented
taxes on mining profits and carbon emissions that the Liberal-
National opposition says it would scrap. The nation’s first
female prime minister must also hold together a minority
government that relies on the backing of independent and Green
party lawmakers, while trying to narrow the opposition’s 10
point lead in the latest opinion poll.  “Rudd’s leadership ambitions are now all over,” said
 Andrew Hughes , who conducts research in political marketing at
the  Australian National University  in Canberra. “The doubts are
over within the party -- now she has to work on winning over the
voters, who still seem to have plenty of doubts.”  Australian Dollar  The Australian dollar traded at $1.0676 at 1:56 p.m. in
Sydney from $1.0681 immediately before the announcement. Ten-
year government bonds yields were at 4.04 percent, five basis
points below last week’s close. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index
fell 0.7 percent at 1:58 p.m.  “This political drama is over,” Gillard told reporters in
Canberra after the vote, and said the party would unite to fight
the next election. “I will take Labor to that election and I am
confident we can win.”  Rudd, 54, congratulated Gillard on her “strong”
performance in the ballot and said it was time the party’s
“wounds were healed.”  “I accept fully the verdict of the caucus,” said Rudd,
adding he intends to remain a Labor lawmaker through to the next
election and beyond. “I dedicate myself to working fully for
her re-election as prime minister of  Australia  and I will do so
with my absolute ability dedicated to that task.”  Gillard assembled a minority government after the closest
election in seven decades in August 2010. Any collapse in that
arrangement risks triggering another national vote before 2013
2013 that opinion surveys indicate the conservatives would win.  The Labor party’s primary vote of 35 percent trails
opposition leader  Tony Abbott ’s coalition by 10 percentage
points, according to a Newspoll published in the Australian
today. The survey of 1,152 people conducted Feb. 23-26 had a
margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points.  No-Confidence Vote  Abbott, 54, a volunteer lifeguard who once studied for the
priesthood, said today the ballot win was a “stay of
execution” for Gillard. He hasn’t ruled out calling a no-
confidence vote among lawmakers in the lower house of parliament
that could trigger an early election if successful.  One of Gillard’s first tasks will be to consider whether
her ministerial lineup needs its second overhaul in three
months. She said Trade Minister Craig Emerson would act as
foreign minister for the time being and said any other Cabinet
changes would be announced in coming days.  Gillard declined to say whether she would sideline
colleagues who declared they would vote against her in the
ballot, such as Resources Minister Martin Ferguson and  Kim Carr ,
minister for manufacturing.  Second Challenge  Tensions have simmered within the party since Gillard
toppled Rudd in a June 2010 party-room coup amid complaints
about the autocratic style of his 2007-2010 prime ministership
and concern over his slumping poll ratings.  Rudd has promised not to mount a second challenge to
Gillard, whose efforts to boost Labor’s poll ratings may be
hampered by an economy that recorded its worst annual job growth
in 19 years in 2011.  While the biggest mining boom in a century is helping the
economy sustain a two-decade long expansion, a currency that has
gained 23 percent since she took office in June 2010 is hurting
manufacturing.  BlueScope Steel Ltd. (BSL) , the country’s largest steel producer,
in August closed its export division.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and
General Motors Co. have cut jobs in Australia this year, citing
the currency’s strength, while  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  is reviewing the
future of an aluminum smelter.  ‘Slow Lane’  “A big chunk of the Labor voting base is in the slow lane
of Australia’s two-speed economy,” said  Shane Oliver , Sydney-
based head of investment strategy at AMP Capital Investors Ltd.,
which has $100 billion under management. “Australia has to make
the adjustment related to the strength in the mining sector, and
trying to resist that is futile, but it’s difficult balancing
act for the government.”  The job market has shown signs of revival this year as
employers added the most workers in 14 months in January and the
 unemployment rate  unexpectedly declined to 5.1 percent, compared
with the 7.9 percent average for advanced economies last year.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia kept its benchmark  interest
rate  at 4.25 percent on Feb. 7, the highest among major
developed nations, after lowering borrowing costs by a quarter
percentage point twice late last year.  The central bank is likely to cut rates once more as risks
to global growth remain, said Paul Bloxham, chief economist for
HSBC Holdings Plc in Sydney and a former RBA official who
predicts the economy will then accelerate next year. “The
challenge for the government is that the next election is likely
to occur in 2013 and it’s quite possible we’ll be in an
environment where interest rates are rising.”  Mining Tax  As parliament resumes in Canberra today, Gillard will be
looking to add to her record of legislative success and
implement taxes on  carbon emissions  and resources profits as the
government strives to return the budget to surplus by 2012-13.  Under a law coming into effect on July 1, the government
will charge about 500 polluters A$23 a ton for discharges until
the set price gives way to a cap-and-trade system in 2015. A 30
percent tax on  iron ore  and coal profits is forecast to raise
A$7.7 billion in the first two years. The mining tax bill is
expected to be approved in the upper house where her government
has the support of Greens, who hold the balance of power.  “There’s a real contest between Gillard and Abbott now,”
said  Malcolm Mackerras , a political analyst at the Australian
Catholic University in Canberra. “While I would still say
Abbott is more likely to win, it is a real contest.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  