-- Golden Agri Profit Declines 36% on Lower Prices, Output
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2012-02-27T12:35:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/golden-agri-profit-falls-36-on-lower-prices-production.html
Golden Agri-Resources Ltd. (GGR) , the
world’s second-largest oil-palm planter, said fourth-quarter
profit fell 36 percent because of lower prices, output and
plantation value.  Net income fell to $747.8 million in the three months ended
Dec. 31 from $1.17 billion a year earlier, the Singapore-based
company said today in a statement. That beat the $131.6 million
 average estimate of three analysts  in a survey compiled by
Bloomberg.  Golden Agri, the largest grower of palm fruit in  Indonesia ,
posted lower profit as the global economic slowdown depressed
demand for and prices of edible oils. Earnings were also eroded
because the company booked a lower fair-value gain on its
assets, compared with the same period last year.  Higher fertilizer costs and export taxes also contributed
to the lower quarterly performance, the company said.  Golden Agri plans to expand plantations by 30,000 hectares
this year, the company said in a presentation. It aims to expand
its vegetable-oil refining and soybean-crushing capacities in
 China  this year.  Sales rose to $1.3 billion from $1.19 billion a year
earlier. Output of palm products fell 2 percent and crude  palm
oil  prices dropped 8 percent in the quarter, compared with same
period earlier, the company said.  Golden Agri posted a  record fourth-quarter profit  in 2010
on surging prices for palm oil and a fair-value asset gain of
$1.37 billion. It booked a lower gain of $903 million in the
fourth quarter this year.  Importers from China delayed shipments for the period
October to December because of low demand and domestic prices,
according to the website of the China National Grain & Oils
Information Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in  Hong Kong  at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  