-- Goodman Fielder Surges After Saying Wilmar Seeking Stake
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-02-28T07:04:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/goodman-fielder-shares-surge-after-saying-wilmar-seeking-to-buy-10-stake.html
Wilmar International Ltd. (WIL) , the
world’s largest palm oil trader, bought a 10.1 percent stake in
 Goodman Fielder Ltd. (GFF)  and is studying whether to acquire more
shares in  Australia ’s biggest baking company.  Wilmar paid A$115 million ($124 million) for the stake in
 Goodman Fielder , which has a market value of A$1.3 billion, the
Singapore-based company said today in a statement. “Wilmar is
currently assessing whether to increase its shareholding.”  Buying the stake in Goodman Fielder, which has local rights
for Crisco oils and Newman’s Own salad dressings, increases
Wilmar’s exposure to Australia after paying A$1.75 billion for
the nation’s biggest sugar company, Sucrogen Ltd. Goodman
Fielder shares, which hit a record low of 39.5 cents on Jan. 6,
had their largest one-day gain since their listing, jumping 33
percent to 69 cents.  “At this price, we think Goodman remains substantially
undervalued,” David Herro, Chief Investment Officer at Chicago-
based Harris Associates LP, said by e-mail. Harris is Sydney-
based Goodman’s second-largest shareholder with an 8 percent
stake, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The bid is “opportunistic”, Goodman Fielder spokesman Ian Greenshields said by telephone from Auckland. “Value lies well
north of 60 cents,” he said.  The stake cost about 58 cents a share, based on the 2
billion shares Goodman has  on issue , according to Bloomberg
calculations. Wilmar rose 0.4 percent to S$5.09 in Singapore
trading at 2:57 p.m. local time.  Largest Transaction  Wilmar, which already held a stake of less than 5 percent
in the company, had been in talks with Goodman Fielder over the
Australian company’s plans to sell off its Integro specialist
ingredients and New Zealand-based milling businesses,
Greenshields said.  A takeover would be the largest transaction in Asia’s food
industry since  Nestle SA (NESN)  last year bought 60 percent of Chinese
snack and candy maker  Hsu Fu Chi International Ltd. (HFCI)  for S$2.07
billion ($1.7 billion), according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Food company takeovers worth more than $1 billion on
average valued the target’s debt and equity at 10.7 times the
previous year’s earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization, according to Bloomberg data. Goodman Fielder,
whose brands also include Helga’s and Wonder White bakery, is
trading at 6.63 times estimated full-year EBITDA.  Soaring prices of commodity ingredients such as grains and
oils, combined with weak consumer demand in its home market,
contributed to a 77 percent decline in Goodman Fielder’s first-
half profit. The company plans to save A$100 million in costs by
the end of 2015, mostly through cutting jobs.  China Cooking  The Sucrogen business as well as Goodman’s baking, dairy,
and oils brands “are complementary to Wilmar’s consumer pack
business” in  Asia , Wilmar said in the regulatory statement.  Wilmar, whose third-quarter profit gained 24 percent,
became the world’s eighth-largest sugar producer after buying
Sucrogen in fiscal 2011 in the company’s biggest acquisition. It
is diversifying to rely less on  China ’s cooking oil market,
where it has a 50 percent share. Wilmar, which sold S$350
million of bonds last month, would need Australian government
approval to buy more than 15 percent of Goodman Fielder,  “Wilmar definitely has the war chest,” Nomura Holdings
Inc. analysts Tanuj Shori and Vishnu Reddy said today in a note,
adding they didn’t expect many near-term cost benefits of any
takeover. “This acquisition, if it happens, would be a small
positive, which would give the company access to new, but
matured markets.”  Wilmar has S$5.8 billion of bond and loan facilities
maturing by the end of 2019, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The company is currently in talks with a group of
banks led by DBS Group Holdings Ltd. about extending a $614
million revolving credit facility for another 12 months, a
person familiar with the matter said separately.  Goodman Fielder’s  shares  had slumped 56 percent in the year
before today, compared with a 12 percent decline in the
benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  