-- Rhone Valley’s Hidden Gems, Drinkable French Wines
-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 2012-02-27T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/grab-rhone-valley-s-hidden-gems-good-french-wines-for-9-john-mariani.html
I can’t recall the last time I took
so much pleasure tasting an array of wines from a single region
as I did recently pairing bottles from the  Rhone Valley  in
 France  with dinners at home.  As difficult to understand as any wine region in  Europe ,
the Cotes du Rhone offers wines with a hearty spiciness and rich
in tannins and acid. That makes them enjoyable without thinking
too much about their exact provenance.  Bordeaux is relatively easy to know because its better
wines are made at individual chateaux; Burgundy is tougher
because so many vineyards have multiple owners and merchants
with their own labels.  But becoming familiar with Cotes du Rhone, with its
northern and southern region (which alone plants 23 grape
varieties), and names like Cote Rotie, Condrieu, Crozes
Hermitage, Gigondas, Chateauneuf-du-Pape, Beaumes-de-Venise and
many others, can be a lifetime study.  And there’s not much help out there. Robert M. Parker,
Jr.’s “Wines of the Rhone Valley” ( Simon & Schuster , $30) has
not been updated in 15 years; and John Livingston-Learmonth has
not followed up his monumental 720-page “The Wines of the
Northern Rhone” (University of California Press, $65) of 2005
with a companion volume on its southern counterpart.  Local Heroes  Not until the 1980s did Cotes du Rhone begin to develop
anything close to the reputation of the more illustrious
Bordeaux and Burgundy.  Starting in the 1970s, forward-looking merchants like  E.
Guigal  (controversial for introducing new oak to the aging),
Jaboulet, Chapoutier and Delas, modernized the estates, while
winemakers like Gerard Chave, famous for his Hermitage, became
local heroes for their rigorous commitment to better Rhone
wines.  Red wines of the north are dominated by syrah while those
in the south are usually a blend of local grapes, mostly
grenache, syrah, mourvedre, and cinsault. They also tend to have
slightly higher alcohol levels than other French wines.  The wines I chose for my sampling were not random, though a
January sale prompted me to try some I was unfamiliar with. All
but one was from the 2009 vintage, a warm, and drought-stricken
year that tended to make for higher alcohol levels. I avoided
any wines above 14.5 percent. I also tried one 2007, an
excellent vintage, to see how it was coming along.  Jupiter’s Rings  The 2007 Les Halos de Jupiter Vacqueyras par Philippe
Cambie ($31), from the south, was very powerful, still dense in
tannins, with a big bouquet and plenty of grenache fruit (about
85 percent), made more enticing by its blending with syrah. I’d
hang onto this for another two or three years.  Domaine de la Janasse 2009 Cotes du Rhone ($20) had
enormous charm, a joyous nose and plenty of fruit balanced by
easy acids, with just 50 percent grenache, making this a fine
red wine for just about any meat dish but not with seafood.
Janasse is best known for his Chateauneuf-du-Pape, but this
lesser offering, using just a little new oak, is a real bargain.  Domaine La Milliere Chateauneuf-du-Pape 2009 ($50) has
plenty of spice, from anise to cinnamon, in a dark intensity
that comes from being made from vieille vignes (old vines). It
can certainly age well but it’s a beauty right now, with the
fire of 14 percent alcohol. It’s worth every penny.  Pig Farms  Alain Graillot Crozes Hermitage 2009 ($28) is typical of
its northern appellation, a Syrah-dominated wine with well-knit
elements of fruit, bold but softened tannins and an excellent
edge of acid that makes it so good with food.  Its 13 percent alcohol shows you don’t have to go high to
have heft. Graillot left a corporate career to buy a vineyard in
pig farm land, whose excess of nitrogen was no virtue. Careful
upgrading drew praise for his first vintage, 1985, and his
reputation has steadily grown.  Chateau Cambis 2009 Cotes du Rhone Villages ($9) is that
very rare thing, a beauty of a French wine with little pedigree
that sells for under ten bucks. It’s got all the grenache fruit
it needs, along with body and backbone. And it’s ready to drink
right now and for the next couple of years. This is one of the
best buys out there.  Alain Jaume & Fils Les Valats Rasteau 2009 ($22) is from
vineyards around the tiny, picturesque southern village of
Rasteau. Made from 90 percent grenache, this 14.5 percent
alcohol red is pretty one-dimensional, without much of a nose,
though the wine went well with a rare porterhouse steak.  ( John Mariani  writes on wine for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 