-- Greece Cut to Selective Default by S&P
-- B y   G r e g   C h a n g
-- 2012-02-27T22:29:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/greece-cut-to-selective-default-by-s-p.html
Greece ’s credit ratings were cut to
“Selective Default” by  Standard & Poor’s  after it negotiated
the biggest sovereign debt restructuring in history.  S&P dropped Greece’s rating from CC, two levels above
default, after the government added clauses to its debt designed
to mop up investors unwilling to take part in the exchange, the
New York-based company said in a statement today.  The downgrade follows a reduction last week by  Fitch
Ratings  to C, while Moody’s Investors Service has said it will
cut the nation to its lowest rating. Greece published the formal
offer document last week for its agreement to exchange bonds for
new securities, with investors taking a haircut of 53.5 percent.
The restructuring uses so-called collective action clauses to
discourage holdouts, the use of which would trigger credit-
default swap insurance contracts on the nation’s debt, according
to the rules of the International Swaps & Derivatives
Association.  “Everyone knew there was going to be some kind of swap,”
said Ira Jersey, an interest-rate strategist at Credit Suisse
Group AG in  New York . “I suspect that it will be pretty much
shrugged off and it’s in the market.”  Debt Restructuring  Greece negotiated the biggest debt restructuring in history
as it seeks to reduce national debt to 120 percent of gross
domestic product by 2020, from 160 percent last year, and to
meet the terms of a 130 billion-euro ($170 billion)
international bailout. An agreed debt swap, known as private-
sector involvement, or PSI, will slice 100 billion euros off
more than 200 billion euros of privately held debt if all
investors participate.  S&P’s decision to downgrade Greece and the list of PSI
eligible securities to D, was “pre-announced and all its
consequences have been anticipated, planned for and addressed”
by the European Council and the Eurogroup, the Greek Finance
Ministry said in an e-mailed statement today.  The downgrade has “no impact in the Greek banking sector
as its liquidity effect has been address by the Bank of Greece
and consequently by the EFSF,” the Ministry said in the
statement.  The Greek sovereign rating is expected to be upgraded from
SD once the private sector swap on Greek sovereign debt is
completed, the Ministry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Chang at   gchang1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  