-- Grosvenor Plans to Raise $492 Million to Invest in Japanese Real Estate
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 2012-02-27T01:16:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/grosvenor-to-raise-492-million-to-invest-in-japanese-offices-apartments.html
Grosvenor Group Ltd. , the real
estate firm owned by the family trust of Britain’s Duke of
Westminster, plans to raise 40 billion yen ($492 million) for a
fund to invest in Japanese properties as the market recovers.  Grosvenor, with about $17 billion in assets, plans to
invest in office buildings and apartments in the greater Tokyo
area, said Ken Nakajima, Tokyo-based managing director at
Grosvenor Fund Management  Japan  Ltd. The new fund will finance
about half of the assets with loans, a ratio that will allow it
to buy as much as 100 billion yen of properties, he said.  Investors have started to look at Japan again as a recovery
is emerging in the real estate market. Tokyo was ranked the
first in real estate transactions in the past 12 months with $28
billion, followed by  Shanghai  and  Singapore , according to data
compiled from New York-based Real Capital Analytics Inc.  “Investors have started to show interests,” said Ken
Nakajima, managing director at Grosvenor. “Japan remains
attractive with its stability among its Asian counter parts.”  Shanghai, the financial center of  China  where January home
prices fell for four straight months, said last week it’s
maintaining the city’s housing curbs. Singapore, where fourth-
quarter housing values posted the smallest gain in 2 1/2 years,
introduced new taxes in December aimed at foreign buyers.  In Japan, the number of sites where land values were
unchanged or increased in the last three months outnumbered
spots that fell for the first time in 3 1/2 years, helped by
recovering demand around the Tokyo Bay area, according a land
ministry survey on 150 locations released this month.  Nakajima declined to elaborate on how much return the fund
will generate as that has not been finalized. London-based
Grosvenor plans to start buying properties as early as September
for the fund, which will have an investment period of five to
seven years, he said.  The Duke of Westminster, whose name is Gerald Grosvenor,
has a net worth of $13 billion, according to  Forbes magazine .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 Kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  