-- Michelin Crowns Three-Star Restaurant in France as Japan Extends Its Lead
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-02-27T10:38:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/michelin-crowns-three-star-restaurant-in-france-as-japan-extends-its-lead.html
Michelin (ML)  today awarded a third star
to one more restaurant in France, taking the total to 26 in the
home of the guide, which drops further behind Japan for top-
rated establishments.  The new accolade goes to  Flocons de Sel , housed in a chalet
in the mountains of Megeve, in the Rhone-Alpes region of
southeastern France. Chef Emmanuel Renaut is known for modern
seasonal dishes such as a mille-feuille made with vegetables.  “With an expanding array of culinary trends and a constant
focus on ingredients, high standards of cooking and renovated
interiors, the French restaurant industry is being revitalized
and transformed,” Michelin said today in an e-mailed release.  Ten more restaurants were awarded a second star, taking the
total to 83, and 58 gained their first, making 485. The 26
three-star total compares with 32 in  Japan : 17 in the Tokyo
region and 15 in the west of that country. Japan took the lead
last year, when it had 26 three stars, versus 25 in France.  Flocons de Sel “has become an indispensable destination
for lovers of mountain scenery and fine cuisine,” Michelin
said.  The new two stars in France include two in Paris: Sur
Mesure par Thierry Marx, in the Mandarin Oriental hotel; and
 L’Abeille , in the Shangri-La, under chef Philippe Labbe.  Also in Paris, single stars go to Kei, Sola, La Truffiere,
Le Diane, Le 39V, Le Lumiere, Cobea, Le Quinzieme-Cyril Lignac,
Akrame, Shang Palace, and Les Tablettes de JL Nomicos. British
chef  Gordon Ramsay  retains two stars for his restaurant in
Versailles.  Le Jardin des Sens, in Montpelier, and La Madeleine, in
Sens, drop to one star from two. Among venues losing their
single stars, six are in Paris: Fogon, Jacques Cagna, Sensing,
L’Angle du Faubourg, Le Passiflore and La Table du Baltimore.  Exceptional Cuisine  Three stars mean exceptional cuisine, worth a special
journey; two stars are for excellent cooking, worth a detour;
one star denotes a very good restaurant in its category.  Various criteria are used for stars: food quality,
preparation and flavors; the chef’s personality as revealed
through the cuisine; value for money; and consistency over time
and across the menu.  Seven restaurants in  New York  hold three Michelin stars:
Chef’s Table at Brooklyn Fare, Daniel, Eleven Madison Park,  Jean
Georges , Le Bernardin, Masa and Per Se. The total for the U.S.
is 10, with the French Laundry and Restaurant at Meadowood
recognized in the San Francisco guide and Alinea in  Chicago .  The total number of three-star restaurants for the whole of
the U.K. is four: Fat Duck, Waterside Inn, Gordon Ramsay and
 Alain Ducasse .  Clermont-Ferrand, France-based Michelin is the world’s
second-biggest tiremaker, after Bridgestone Corp. The company
published its first guide in August 1900, distributed free of
charge (until 1920) and intended for chauffeurs. France is the
last of the 2012 national guides to be published.  The guide goes on sale on March 1.  Here are  France ’s three-star restaurants, with the town
followed by the establishment’s name:  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in  London  at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 