-- Microsoft Rolling Out Windows Phone to 23 More Countries
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-02-27T18:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/microsoft-rolling-out-windows-phone-software-to-23-new-countries.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  plans to bring its
Windows Phone software to 23 new countries and put the operating
system on less expensive smartphones, part of an effort to win
back market share lost to  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   Microsoft will kick off the expansion by opening mobile-
application stores in China, Thailand, Venezuela and 20 other
nations by the end of the month, with phones arriving around the
same time, said Terry Myerson, who oversees the company’s
Windows Phone business. That will bring the total number of
markets Microsoft serves to 63, letting it target 60 percent
more buyers, he said.  The company aims to close ranks on Apple, the No. 2
provider of mobile-phone software, and set up a showdown with
Google’s market-leading Android operating system. While research
firm IDC has predicted that Microsoft will leapfrog Apple by
2015, moving up in the ranks won’t be easy, Myerson said.  “I wish all I had to do is press a button and say, ‘Make
it happen,’” he said. “We’ve got some great strategies to get
there, but it’s not a gimme. We’re a challenger in a market
against two established competitors.”  Google and Apple aren’t as entrenched in emerging markets,
which provides an opportunity for Microsoft, said Al Hilwa, an
analyst at Framingham, Massachusetts-based IDC. Global
smartphone sales will top 1 billion units in 2015, with  China  as
the biggest single market, the research firm estimates.  Fleeting Chance  Still, Microsoft will have to move quickly in developing
economies, where cheaper Android phones are gaining a foothold,
Hilwa said.  “That opportunity may be fleeting in that we are seeing a
lot of Android phones come down to the low end,” he said.
“They need more phones, more carriers, more prices, more
languages.”  Microsoft also released a test version of its first Skype
video-calling application for Windows Phone today at the Mobile
World Congress show in Barcelona,  Spain . The company plans to
have a final version available in April.  Rather than make phones itself, Microsoft supplies its
software to  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and other handset manufacturers. Those
partners are working on phones with Microsoft’s latest operating
system and showed off new models today at the Barcelona
conference. The company added app stores in  Argentina ,
 Indonesia ,  Malaysia ,  Peru  and the  Philippines  earlier this month
to help support the phones.  Nokia Model  Nokia announced plans today to sell a Windows Phone priced
at 189 euros ($254) in the second quarter running on the new
software. That’s 30 percent less expensive than Nokia’s current
cheapest Windows Phone.  Microsoft has adapted Windows Phone software so that it
requires half as much memory and runs the cheaper 7X27A chip
from  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  That should help manufacturers cut their
costs by about 30 percent to 40 percent, Myerson said. New
Windows Phones could cost as little as $100 to $200 to make.  In the U.S., those savings are unlikely to be passed along
to consumers, Myerson said. In  emerging markets , though, the
changes should lead to cheaper phone prices.  “For Windows to be relevant and exciting to consumers in
these countries, we need to be at the price points they buy
consumer electronics at,” he said.  Phones based on the new software and cheaper hardware are
slower for certain uses, Myerson said. A small number of apps
also aren’t yet running on the new products, though Microsoft is
working to fix that, he said.  Not in Love?  The effort is particularly important in China, where many
phones cost about $100 to $150 to make, Myerson said. The
country is poised to pass the U.S. as the biggest smartphone
market this year, with Android ranking as the most popular
software, according to  IDC .  “What Microsoft is counting on is there are a lot of
Android users, but there aren’t a lot of Android lovers,” said
 Michael Gartenberg , an analyst at Stamford, Connecticut-based
Gartner Inc. “They think they can convert those people.”  Microsoft also is working to persuade more carriers to
offer prepaid Windows Phones -- an approach that’s popular in
emerging markets. Myerson plans to discuss that topic this week
with  America Movil SAB (AMX) , the biggest mobile-phone carrier in the
Americas.  For now, the new software won’t work on handsets that cost
less than $100 to make. Still, Microsoft might be able to
address that segment someday, Myerson said.  “We want to maintain a consistent level of quality,” he
said. “In the fullness of time, price points come down.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at   dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  