-- High Court Won’t Hear Inmate’s Evidence of Innocence
-- B y   B o b   D r u m m o n d
-- 2012-02-27T18:38:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/high-court-won-t-hear-inmate-s-evidence-of-innocence-correct-.html
(Corrects dates in seventh-eighth paragraphs.)  The  U.S. Supreme Court (1000L)  today refused
to consider stopping the execution of Larry Ray Swearingen, a
 Texas  death row inmate who says newly uncovered evidence proves
his innocence.  Swearingen’s lawyers had asked the  high court  to decide for
the first time whether executing an innocent person constitutes
cruel and unusual punishment under the Constitution.  Lower federal courts declined to intervene in Swearingen’s
case in part because, as the law now stands, even uncontested
scientific proof of innocence isn’t a valid reason for a federal
judge to stop an execution.  Texas Attorney General  Greg Abbott , who opposed
Swearingen’s request for a Supreme Court hearing, said
Swearingen’s new scientific testimony doesn’t outweigh a
“mountain” of other evidence “that Swearingen is guilty of
capital murder.”  Federal courts also don’t need to intervene because Texas’s
justice system provides methods for review of innocence claims,
the state attorney general’s brief said. A state court has said
it will consider Swearingen’s claims, Abbott said. Swearingen
also could get a pardon or commutation from Texas Governor  Rick Perry .  ‘Brooding Omnipresence’  Questions about the constitutionality of executing an
innocent person are a “brooding omnipresence” in federal law
that have “been left unanswered for too long,” Judge Jacques Wiener wrote in a 2009 ruling on Swearingen at the New Orleans-
based 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. Swearingen’s appeal
“might be the very case” for the Supreme Court “to recognize
actual innocence as a ground for federal habeas relief,” Wiener
wrote.  Swearingen was sentenced to die for the murder of 19-year-
old Melissa Trotter, a college student who disappeared on Dec.
8, 1998, and was missing for 25 days before her body was
discovered in Sam Houston National Forest, north of Houston.  Swearingen, who knew Trotter and was seen with her on the
day she disappeared, was considered a suspect early in the
police investigation. He was arrested Dec. 11, 1998, on
unrelated warrants and has been in jail ever since.  Swearingen’s lawyers say forensic specialists -- including
the medical examiner who testified for the prosecution -- have
looked at evidence that wasn’t considered at Swearingen’s trial
and now agree that Trotter’s body was placed in the forest no
earlier than Dec. 18, 1998, a week after Swearingen’s arrest.  Medical Examiner  More than that, Swearingen’s lawyers say medical examiners
who looked at tissue samples say Trotter’s internal organs were
in a condition suggesting that she was killed no more than
several days before her body was found.  The Innocence Network, an umbrella group of more than 60
organizations that helps prisoners uncover favorable evidence,
said in a friend-of-the-court brief that Swearingen has “an
airtight alibi -- he was in jail when the victim was murdered.”  Imposing the death penalty on someone who isn’t guilty of a
capital crime, Swearingen’s lawyers said, would violate the
Eighth Amendment’s ban on cruel and unusual punishment and the
14th Amendment’s due process protections.  Texas authorities said strands of Trotter’s hair were found
in Swearingen’s truck, and fibers matching Swearingen’s jacket,
bedroom carpet and truck upholstery were found on Trotter’s
clothing. Cleaning Swearingen’s trailer after Trotter’s body was
discovered, the suspect’s landlord found part of a torn pair of
pantyhose that, prosecutors said, matched hosiery used to
strangle the victim.  Rights Violations  Swearingen’s case involves rules for habeas corpus
petitions, which let federal judges intervene in criminal cases
if there is reason to believe an inmate’s rights have been
violated.  In a 1993  Supreme Court  decision, seven justices said they
at least presumed, for argument’s sake, that the Constitution
prohibits putting innocent people to death. The high court,
however, has never turned that hypothetical discussion into a
concrete rule of law.  The court ruled in 1993’s Herrera v. Collins decision that
new evidence, by itself, says nothing about whether a
defendant’s rights were respected during an earlier
investigation and trial. An inmate needs additional evidence of
a separate constitutional violation to warrant a federal court’s
involvement, the high court ruled.  ‘Errors of Fact’  “Federal habeas courts do not sit to correct errors of
fact, but to ensure that individuals are not imprisoned in
violation of the Constitution,” then-Chief Justice William Rehnquist wrote for a 6-3 majority. “Claims of actual innocence
based on newly discovered evidence have never been held to state
a ground for federal habeas relief absent an independent
constitutional violation occurring in the underlying state
criminal proceeding.”  Rehnquist acknowledged the stakes would be keenest in death
penalty cases.  “We may assume, for the sake of argument,” he wrote,
“that in a capital case a truly persuasive demonstration of
‘actual innocence’ made after trial would render the execution
of a defendant unconstitutional, and warrant federal habeas
relief if there were no state avenue open to process such a
claim.”  Even then, the court said, the standard for assessing new
evidence would “be extraordinarily high.”  ‘Extraordinary’ Case  In Swearingen’s Supreme Court brief, his lawyers called the
appeal an “extraordinary” case “in which the evidence of the
petitioner’s innocence is so compelling that his execution would
violate the Constitution.”  A federal judge who reviewed the new evidence declined to
stop Swearingen’s execution, in part citing legal precedent that
claims of innocence alone don’t warrant habeas corpus relief.  The district court also said Swearingen, who had previously
sought federal court review of his conviction, couldn’t meet
strict legal standards permitting a second habeas corpus review
because the newly presented evidence, such as tissue samples,
existed at the time of his earlier appeal and could have been
discovered before his first appeal with sufficient effort.  The case is Swearingen v. Thaler, 11-233.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Drummond in Washington at 
 bdrummond@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  