-- Millions to Strike in India as Union Backing Singh Joins Protest
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2012-02-27T08:15:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/millions-to-strike-in-india-as-union-backing-singh-joins-protest.html
Millions of Indian government
employees in banks, telephone and transport services will strike
tomorrow to protest rising prices and proposed sales of stakes
in state-run companies that they say will lead to job losses.  The one-day stoppage has been called by 11 trade unions
from across the political spectrum, including the  Indian
National Trade Union Congress  that’s affiliated to Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s ruling Congress party.  The strike will be the biggest ever “show of unity by all
trade unions,” said Gurudas Dasgupta, general secretary of the
 All India Trade Union Congress , which is associated with
communist political parties. The walkout against the
government’s “anti-worker and neoliberal policies” will cover
“all sectors except the railways,” Dasgupta said.  Singh’s government, also roiled by street protests over
graft, has faced at least five earlier nationwide strikes since
returning to power in May 2009. The administration is bidding to
raise money from state companies after a 25 percent slump in the
benchmark Sensitive Index in 2011 undermined efforts to sell
stakes. The government has met only 3 percent of an $8.1 billion
target for asset sales in the year to end March.  “The strike is to put pressure on the government to
concede to the demands of workers,” said  G. Sanjeeva Reddy ,
president of the Indian National Trade Union Congress. Finance
Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  will present the annual budget on
March 16.  Job Security  Inflation (INFINFY)  stayed above 9 percent for the first 11 months of
last year, before easing to 6.55 percent in January.  Previous strikes have protested increases in the prices of
fuels and called for the rollback of now-stalled plans to allow
foreign retail chains such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  to set up
supermarkets in  India .  Labor Minister Mallikarjun Kharge said Feb. 24 that the
government had taken measures to curb rising prices and improve
the lives of lower paid employees. The unions are also demanding
adherence to laws on  job security  and extending social security
schemes to daily-wage workers.  The All India Bank Employees Association and All India Bank
Officers Association said in a joint statement that their
members will support tomorrow’s strike.  Oil Minister S. Jaipal Reddy said Feb. 15 that the
government will auction a stake valued at $2.4 billion in  Oil &
Natural Gas (ONGC)  Corp. as it seeks to cut the  budget deficit . Meghna
Patel, a fixed-income analyst at Mumbai-based brokerage Emkay
Global Financial Services Ltd., said the shortfall may widen to
as much as 5.5 percent of gross domestic product in the year
ending March 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  