-- Impala to Rehire 87% of Fired Workers at World’s Largest Platinum Mine
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-02-27T09:23:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/impala-to-rehire-87-of-fired-workers-at-world-s-largest-platinum-mine.html
Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP)  said
it will rehire 15,000 of 17,200 workers it dismissed after an
illegal strike that has halted output at its Rustenburg mine,
the world’s biggest producer of the metal, for almost a month.  “We will have fewer employees, but I don’t think we are
going to turn anyone away,” Group Executive for People Johan Theron said by phone from Johannesburg today. “Some people have
been guilty of misconduct and those we will not take back. A
number of people who didn’t want to get caught up in the
violence took their exit medicals, and we don’t expect some of
them to come back.” The situation at the mine was “calm”
today though production hadn’t resumed, he added.  The Rustenburg mine has been shut for four weeks, costing
the company about 3,000 ounces of platinum a day. Rock-drill
operators went on an  illegal strike  in January after they didn’t
get a pay increase awarded to miners. The majority of workers
didn’t report for duty on Jan. 30, halting the mine and
prompting the company to fire 17,200 workers.  Four have been killed so far and more than 54 injured in
violence related to the strike at the operation, northwest of
Johannesburg. Police dispersed miners gathering to protest last
week by firing on crowds with rubber bullets. Shops were looted
and roads blocked with burning tires.  Intimidation Hurdle  Impala will re-employ the dismissed workers under their
former terms and conditions if they apply by Feb. 29, the
company said Feb. 25. The workers won’t be paid for the days on
which they were on strike, it said.  Intimidation is the only hurdle stopping fired workers
returning to their jobs, National Union of Mineworkers General
Secretary Frans Baleni told reporters in Johannesburg today.  The local union structures were informed in a “casual
manner” by Impala that it is planning to retain workers and
salary adjustments will be made, but “no details were
provided,” he said. “It’s a norm that such matters would have
been discussed with the national office,” Baleni said.  RMB Morgan Stanley reduced its recommendation on Impala to
“equal-weight” from “overweight,” analyst Simon Kendall said
in an e-mailed note today.  “Impala is planning to rehire only 15,000 due to reduced
operational capacity, and the cost will be severe,” Kendall
wrote. “For the second fiscal half of 2012, we estimate about
190,000 ounces of platinum lost, or 46 percent of the second
half of 2012.”  Impala shares  retreated 2.7 percent, the biggest drop in
the FTSE/JSE Africa Top 40 Index of the biggest companies, to
163.07 rand by 10:58 a.m. in Johannesburg, taking its decline
since Jan. 20, when the rock-drill operators’ strike started, to
8.4 percent. Platinum fell for a third day, losing 0.7 percent
to $1,700.50 an ounce.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  