-- India Goes Its Own Way on Iran’s Nuclear Program: Pankaj Mishra
-- B y   P a n k a j   M i s h r a
-- 2012-02-27T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/india-goes-its-own-way-on-iran-s-nuclear-program-pankaj-mishra.html
India , the Wall Street Journal
claimed  recently , is the Iranian mullahs’ “last best friend” for
continuing to buy  oil  from, and trade with, Iran. Questioning
why Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  “hasn’t already curtailed
dealings with the Islamic Republic,” the Journal wondered if it
has to do with the Indian fear of “pushy Westerners.” Accusing
India of carrying some “mental baggage from the days of the Non-
Aligned Movement,” the paper castigated the country for having
failed to grow out of its “adolescent neurosis.”  Certainly, American policy- and opinion-makers are right to
wonder why the Bush administration’s generous 2005 gift of a
civil nuclear agreement to India -- gratefully accepted by
Singh, who told a departing  George W. Bush  in 2008 that the
“people of India love you deeply " -- has not made India a more
eager enabler of the U.S. strategy to prevent Iran from
acquiring nuclear weapons.  Still, some fact-checking seems in order: Iran under its
Islamic regime joined the Non-Aligned Movement when the movement
was almost defunct, and when India itself was beginning to move
toward a stronger relationship with the U.S. and Israel.  Pushy Westerners  In any case, India, now with  almost 200 million  restless
Muslims, didn’t welcome an  Islamic Revolution  on its doorstep --
as recently as 2010, Iran’s supreme leader,  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei , alarmed and angered many Indians by listing India-
ruled Kashmir as among the  Muslim countries  awaiting
“liberation.”  As for the pushy Westerners, lately they have gotten their
way in India more often than not. India, as the Journal admits,
voted against Iran in the  International Atomic Energy Agency  in
2005. During a Cabinet reshuffle in 2006, Singh ejected his
energy minister, Mani Shankar Aiyar, who was an outspoken
advocate of a  gas pipeline  to Iran, and replaced him with Murli Deora, a pro-American businessman-cum-politician from Mumbai.  American pressure was widely suspected to be behind this
move. Confirmation came last year in the form of a U.S.
diplomatic  cable  released by Wikileaks. It shows the U.S.
ambassador to India in a self-congratulatory mood over the
“undeniable pro-American tilt of the Cabinet shuffle,” whose net
effect was “likely to be excellent for US goals in India (and
 Iran ).”  During the parliamentary uproar caused by the cable, even
Jaswant Singh, the former foreign minister who together with
Strobe Talbott crafted the new U.S.-Indian strategic
partnership, was  moved  to wonder if Indian policy was now
drafted in the U.S.  So why is India now refusing to augment American pressure
tactics on Iran? One clear answer is that Iran is India’s
second-biggest oil supplier. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. asserts
that a $10 increase in India’s oil price would probably  shave 
0.2 percentage point from India’s gross-domestic-product growth
-- a setback India can ill afford as it looks at already reduced
targets for this year. Given the blow it may inflict on the
economy, war in the  Middle East  looms over Indian horizons as a
terrible prospect.  There are also less tangible reasons for India’s reluctance
to join another “coalition of the willing” against a Muslim
country. Relations between India and  Israel  have developed fast
since the countries established full diplomatic relations in
1992; Israel is India’s second-biggest arms supplier and a close
adviser on security issues. But India’s links with Iran are much
older, grounded in a shared religion and history.  The Persian Connection  Shiites from Persia once ruled large parts of India. The
Safavid Empire represented the apex of cultural sophistication
for the Mughal dynasty that held sway for centuries. Persian was
the language of administration in large parts of India and
remained so late into the British colonial era. (My own
grandfather read Persian more easily than Hindi.) India’s anti-
colonial leaders, “Mahatma” Gandhi and  Jawaharlal Nehru , in
turn, were heroes for a whole generation of Iranian
intellectuals and activists fighting against foreign domination
of their country.  That history of political and cultural partnership might
seem very remote today. But it doesn’t lack for recent examples.
India and Iran worked together to back the Northern Alliance,
specifically Ahmed Shah Massoud, against the Taliban in the
1990s.  India switched to supporting the U.S. after the Sept. 11
attacks, hoping to extend its influence within  Afghanistan  under
a U.S. security umbrella. But that policy, predicated on a long
U.S. commitment to Afghanistan and opposition to the Taliban,
now lies in tatters as the U.S. prepares to withdraw its troops
from the country.  Afghanistan, for better or worse, will again have regional
arbiters. Trying to regain its influence there, India would, of
course, find Iran a safer interlocutor and partner than
 Pakistan . Could India turn its unavoidable proximity to Iran
into a diplomatic advantage? A recent contributor to a hawkish
Indian website  proposed  that India bring about a “grand
rapprochement” between the U.S. and Iran since the latter’s
nuclearization is now inevitable.  This is not as absurd as it may seem to laptop bombers
itching to bring Iran into their sights. Few things are more
desirable than a nuclear-free South  Asia  and Middle East. But
whether we like it or not, this worthy ideal has to reckon with
the enduring appeal of Asian nationalism -- especially, the
widespread sentiment that still upholds nuclear capability as
the gold standard of scientific achievement and national
strength.  Responding to India’s nuclear tests in 1974, Pakistan Prime
Minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto famously vowed that his country
would achieve parity with its rival even if it had to eat grass
for 1,000 years. Bhutto provoked U.S. hostility for refusing to
stop his nuclear program. But his executioner, Muhammad Zia-ul- Haq, though lavishly subsidized by the U.S., also never took his
eyes off this national goal.  Rite of Passage  Support for Iran’s nuclear program also cuts across the
country’s great political divisions today. Indeed, the Green
Movement leader, Mir Hossein Mousavi, has been known to attack
 Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  on the nuclear issue -- for, believe it or
not, “betraying” Iranian interests to the West.  There is no doubt that, short of a catastrophic war that
turns much of the Middle East into a wasteland, Iran’s nuclear
program, which was started by the Shah, will be completed --
either by the present regime in Tehran, or the one that replaces
it.  If many Indians feel this to be inevitable, it is because
India itself defied intense international pressure to build its
nuclear capacity. India refused to sign the Nuclear
Nonproliferation and Comprehensive Nuclear-Test Ban treaties,
insisting that they discriminated against countries that had not
achieved nuclear status before 1968. As late as 2005, when the
 Bush administration  decided to change tack and seek a strong
strategic partner in Asia, the U.S. kept up sanctions imposed on
India after the latter’s nuclear tests in 1998.  In at least one evolutionary narrative of international
relations developed during the  Cold War , countries attain
adulthood when, after outgrowing adolescent neuroses, they align
their interests with U.S. objectives. The example of India (and
its attitude toward Iran) points at a newer and more widespread
model of individuation: one in which nation states reach
maturity when they grow aware of their own needs and interests,
and define their foreign policies through the interplay of
geopolitical imperatives, domestic politics, regional histories,
and national pride.  To ignore this dawning reality of the multipolar world is
to risk regressing beyond adolescent neuroses; it is to lapse
into child-like narcissism.  ( Pankaj Mishra , whose new book, “From the Ruins of Empire:
The Revolt Against the West and the Remaking of Asia,” will be
published in August, is a Bloomberg View columnist, based in
 London  and Mashobra, India. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Pankaj Mishra at  pmashobra@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net  