-- India Top Court to Hear Petition Against Vedanta-Cairn Deal
-- B y   P r a t a p   P a t n a i k
-- 2012-02-27T12:37:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/india-top-court-to-hear-petition-against-vedanta-cairn-deal.html
India’s top court will hear on March
2 a suit that seeks to declare  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED) ’s  $8.67
billion (CAIR)  acquisition of oil explorer Cairn India Ltd. illegal.  The petition, filed in the Supreme Court today by lawyer
Prashant Bhushan on behalf of Bangalore resident Arun Kumar
Agrawal, wants the court to order state-run  Oil & Natural Gas
Corp. (ONGC)  to buy controlling stake in Cairn India. The suit also
asked the court to order an investigation into why ONGC didn’t
buy the shares.  Cairn India said in an e-mail it has no comments to offer
at this stage. ONGC, India’s biggest energy exploration company,
said in September its decision not to make a competing bid for
Cairn India was based on legal and commercial considerations.  Vedanta, controlled by billionaire Anil Agarwal, is a
metals and mining company with no previous experience in oil and
gas projects. It completed the purchase of Cairn  India , operator
of the nation’s biggest onshore oil deposit, in December after
the government approved the deal in June.  Cairn India, previously a unit of U.K. explorer Cairn
Energy Plc, fell 0.9 percent to 377.95 rupees at close in
Mumbai. ONGC declined 1.2 percent to 281.05 rupees. The
benchmark Sensitive Index dropped 2.7 percent.  Cairn India agreed to make royalty payments recoverable
from oil sales. ONGC, Cairn India’s partner, owns 30 percent of
the deposit in Rajasthan state and paid royalty for the entire
output.  Vedanta, based in London, said Feb. 25 the group’s 58.9
percent holding in Cairn India will be transferred to Sesa
Sterlite, a company that will be formed by combining units  Sesa
Goa Ltd. (SESA)  and Sterlite Industries (India) Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratap Patnaik in  New Delhi  at 
 ppatnaik2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  