-- Indian Lenders Slump as Moody’s Warns on Ratings: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2012-02-27T11:48:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/indian-lenders-slump-as-moody-s-warns-on-ratings-mumbai-mover.html
Indian lenders fell for a fourth day
after Moody’s Investors Service said today that bank ratings
will remain under pressure because of rising bad loans.  State Bank of India , nation’s largest, declined 3.8 percent,
and  Axis Bank (AXSB)  Ltd. plunged 5.8 percent at close in Mumbai. The
BSE India  Bankex Index (BANKEX) , a gauge for 14 local lenders, dropped 4
percent, the most in five months.  Financial difficulties faced by corporate borrowers in
telecommunications, power and airline industries will continue
to weigh on asset quality and the ratings of banks, Moody’s said
in an e-mailed statement today. The nation’s  Supreme Court  last
month ordered the cancellation of 122 phone licenses tainted by
corruption allegations, adding to the lenders’ problems, Moody’s
said.  “The banks most at risk of a downgrade are those that
feature insufficient earnings and capital buffers to withstand
their combined exposures to troubled borrowers,” according to
the credit assessor’s statement.  Moody’s downgraded the outlook for  India ’s banking system
in November to “negative,” citing concern that a domestic
slowdown and a surge in borrowing costs may increase bad loans.
India’s economy may expand 7 percent in the fiscal year through
March 31, according to a survey compiled by the central bank in
January. That’s lower than an October estimate of 7.6 percent.  The stocks fell on Dec. 22 on speculation fresh credit to
help revive  Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR) , an Indian carrier
struggling with $1.3 billion of debt, will erode profitability.  “Banks will have to grapple with rising bad loans till
there’s a sustainable turn in the economic cycle,” said Darpin Shah, a banking analyst at Almondz Capital Markets Pvt. in
Mumbai. “Any further downgrades by rating agencies will push up
the borrowing costs of these banks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anto Antony in  New Delhi  at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Russell Ward at   rward16@bloomberg.net  