-- Volcker Rule Makes Traders Look Beyond Wall Street, Hintz Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C l a r k
-- 2012-02-27T20:40:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/hintz-says-volcker-rule-makes-wall-street-way-point-tom-keene.html
Wall Street  is being replaced by
 hedge funds  as the place where aspiring traders hope to end
their careers because of new federal rules, said Brad Hintz, an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  Financial firms have said that the so-called Volcker rule,
which bars banks from proprietary trading, may also limit
trading profits, once a prime source of Wall Street revenue and
bankers’ pay. The restriction will also force some professionals
to change career paths, Hintz said.  “If you are a proprietary trader or have aspirations to be
one, you learn Wall Street and then you move elsewhere,” Hintz
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance
Midday” with  Tom Keene . “What was at one point the final job
has now turned into a way point on the way to the next level.”  The rule, named for former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , was included in the Dodd-Frank Act to restrict risky
trading at banks that operate with federal guarantees. The
regulation goes into effect in July.  Wall Street firms are curbing bonuses and changing
compensation formulas to limit expenses as they grapple with
lower revenue. Some are giving less cash and more stock, and
others are deferring a greater percentage of total pay.  The incentive for risk-taking is unlikely to change, Hintz
said. Managing directors at most firms receive about 40 percent
of the total bonus pool and generally have short tenures in such
senior positions, Hintz said.  “They know they will only be up to bat for a short time,”
he said. “There is a tendency to want to swing for the
fences.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Clark in New York at 
 pclark48@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 