-- Lira Weakens Second Day on Rising Mideast Tension, Oil Concern
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-02-27T16:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/lira-weakens-past-1-77-a-dollar-heads-for-lowest-in-february.html
The lira weakened for a second day
against the dollar and bond yields climbed the most in eight
weeks on concern rising tensions between  Iran  and  Israel  will
further lift  oil prices , hurting the global economy.  The Turkish currency depreciated as much as 0.5 percent
before paring its loss to 0.1 percent at 1.7686 as of 5:14 p.m.
in Istanbul, heading for the lowest level in two weeks.  Yields (BENCH) 
on two-year benchmark debt rose for a third day, up 16 basis
points, or 0.16 percentage point, to 9.34 percent, the highest
since Jan. 2.  “The only reason is regional political risks, especially
Israel-Iran tensions and the resultant high oil prices” driving
the lira and bonds lower, Yarkin Cebeci, an economist at
JPMorgan Chase Bank in Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments.  The lira retreated after Iran stopped sales to French and
British buyers to preempt a European Union embargo.  Turkey 
depends on imports for almost all of its energy requirements,
paying $54 billion last year, 22 percent of its total import
bill, the Ankara-based statistics office shows. Middle Eastern
countries bought one-fifth of total Turkish exports in 2011,
according to the statistics office  website .  Oil advanced 11 percent this year on concern that
escalating tensions in the  Middle East  will disrupt supply as
the EU agreed Jan. 23 to ban crude imports from Iran. Iran has
threatened to shut the  Strait of Hormuz , a transit route for a
fifth of the world’s oil, in response to an embargo.  The Turkish currency lost 18 percent in the biggest decline
worldwide and yields soared 390 basis points last year as
investors sold lira assets on concern a record high current-
account deficit will hurt the nation’s financial stability.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  