-- Italian Business Confidence Unexpectedly Declines to Two-Year Low: Economy
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-02-27T11:10:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/italy-business-confidence-falls-to-two-year-low-as-recession-hits-country.html
Italian business confidence
unexpectedly fell to a two-year low in February after the
economy entered its fourth recession since 2001 under the weight
of austerity measures to fight the sovereign debt crisis.  The manufacturing-sentiment  index  fell to 91.5, the lowest
since November 2009, from 92.1 in January, Rome-based national
statistics institute Istat said today. Economists had predicted
a gain to 92.3, according to the median of 16 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Prime Minister  Mario Monti  is implementing a 20 billion-
euro ($26.9 billion) package of spending cuts and tax increases
to eliminate the  budget deficit  and reduce the nation’s 1.9
trillion-euro debt. Those measures are weighing on growth, with
the European Commission forecasting on Feb. 23 that the Italian
economy will contract 1.3 percent this year.  “There is the recognition that we are in a recessionary
phase of the economic cycle,” said  Silvio Peruzzo , an economist
at Royal Bank of  Scotland  in London. “While in Germany and in
some other countries the manufacturing sector has shown
improvement, in  Italy  for the past few months we have seen the
trend deteriorating.”  The euro weakened today, falling 0.4 percent to $1.3400 as
of 10:50 a.m. in London. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  declined 0.8
percent to 262.61, while Italy’s benchmark FTSE MIB Index shed
1.5 percent.  Plant Closings  Fiat SpA (F) , the country’s biggest manufacturer, may shut two
of its five domestic car factories if it can’t produce
competitively in Italy and export vehicles to the U.S. since the
outlook for its European business is bleak, Chief Executive
Officer  Sergio Marchionne  told newspaper  Corriere della Sera 
last week. The company closed its Sicilian plant at the end of
last year as it seeks to cut costs and improve productivity
after losing 500 million euros in  Europe  in 2011.  Monti’s efforts to tame the deficit and additional measures
his government has passed to spur economic growth are helping to
boost optimism among investors in Italy. The country’s 10-year
bonds rose for a seventh week through Feb. 24. The yield fell 2
basis points today to 5.462 percent, narrowing the difference
with similar maturity German debt to 358 basis points.  Those gains are helping bring down borrowing costs. The
Treasury today sold the maximum target of 12.25 billion euros of
six-month and 295-day bills to more than cover 8.75 billion
euros of short-term debt maturing on Feb. 29. It sold the six-
month bills at 1.202 percent, the lowest paid since September
2010.  Asia Sentiment  In  Asia , there are signs of improving sentiment. South
Korean  manufacturers’ confidence  on the prospects for March rose
to a five-month high, increasing to 84 from 81, a  Bank of Korea 
index showed in  Seoul  today. Sentiment also improved at other
businesses, the report said. Data last week showed  consumer
confidence  at a three-month high.  A U.S. index of pending home sales probably rose 1 percent
in January from the previous month, boosting signs of
stabilization in the nation’s housing market, economists predict
before a report from the National Association of Realtors today.
The Federal Reserve Bank of  Dallas  may say its index of
 manufacturing activity  rose to 15.5 this month from 15.3 in
January, a separate survey showed.  G-20 Meeting  In Europe, leaders shift their focus this week to
bolstering the euro region’s debt-crisis firewall after the
Group of 20 nations rebuffed their call for help.  The decision by G-20 finance ministers to fend off pleas
for assistance pending an increase in the euro-area backstop
puts the onus on  Germany , the biggest national contributor to
bailouts, to overcome its resistance to doing more.  With a parliamentary vote on a second Greek aid package
looming in Berlin today, German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s
government must now decide whether to back plans at a March 1-2
European Union summit to combine rescue funds and produce a
potential firewall of 750 billion euros.  Meanwhile, the  European Central Bank  will offer financial
institutions another batch of three-year loans tomorrow in an
effort to get credit flowing through the euro-area economy.  Banks will seek 470 billion euros ($633 billion) in a
second round of unlimited three-year funds to be allotted on
Feb. 29, approaching the 489 billion-euro take-up at the first
such operation in December, according to the median estimate of
28 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Data today showed growth in loans to households and
companies in the 17-nation euro area accelerated in January.
Loans to the private sector grew 1.1 percent from a year
earlier after gaining an annual 1 percent in December, the ECB
said.  “While it is early days and monthly data tend to be
extremely volatile, today’s numbers for January do point to an
easing of credit conditions,” said Jens Sondergaard, an
economist at Nomura International Plc in  London . “That is good
news for the euro area and should give the ECB confidence that
its liquidity injections are working as intended.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Milan at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  