-- JPMorgan Would Be Worth One-Third More If Bank Were Broken Up, Mayo Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-02-27T16:47:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/jpmorgan-would-be-worth-more-if-split-up-mayo.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the largest
U.S. bank by assets, should consider breaking up and selling
businesses because its parts are worth one-third more than its
market value, according to Mike Mayo, an analyst at CLSA Ltd.  While JPMorgan’s stock has outperformed its  peers , the New
York-based company has trailed the leading firms in its
individual businesses, Mayo wrote in a note e-mailed today.
JPMorgan  executives  must make the case at tomorrow’s investor
conference for why the firm shouldn’t be broken up, he wrote.  “At what point does the conglomerate discount become so
great that it encourages the company to take action?” Mayo
wrote. “The stock seems undervalued, but the question is how
and when this value gets realized?”  Bank stocks including JPMorgan underperformed the broad
market over the past eight years, according to Mayo. Even after
this year’s 15 percent gain, the stock is worth about 2 percent
less than at the end of 2004. Mayo asked whether the firm run by
Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  should sell its asset-
management and processing units, which accounted for 18 percent
of 2011 revenue, and use proceeds for share buybacks.  “Eight years is a long time to wait for a higher share
price when the five top executives at JPM from 2004-2010
received over $600 million in compensation,” Mayo wrote.  Joe Evangelisti , a JPMorgan spokesman, declined to comment
on the report. The stock gained 6 cents to $38.34 at 11:32 a.m.
in New York.  JPMorgan’s  net income  climbed 9 percent to $19 billion last
year as  credit quality  improved. Revenue dropped 5 percent to
$97.2 billion, the lowest since 2008.  “If JPM is best-of-breed and it still underperforms,
perhaps the breed is not so good or the company needs to better
explain the synergies whose benefits are missing from the share
price,” Mayo wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  