-- JPMorgan, BofA Strain for Qualified Staff to Clear Foreclosures
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-02-28T13:44:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/jpmorgan-bofa-struggle-for-qualified-staff-to-clear-foreclosure-backlogs.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Bank of
America Corp.  told regulators they were straining last year to
hire and keep enough qualified people who could clear a backlog
of foreclosure complaints.  JPMorgan, the largest U.S. bank by assets, vowed to expand
training after its review found that the mortgage-servicing unit
“struggled to absorb rapid staffing growth and, in many cases,
hired representatives with little or no home lending industry
experience.” Bank of America, ranked second, said compliance
operations were understaffed as of midyear 2011 and that some
people lacked the skills or stature needed to do their jobs.  The assessments, released yesterday by the  Federal Reserve ,
were contained in action plans submitted after U.S. banks were
ordered last April to clean up  foreclosures  and mortgage
servicing. The order followed a deluge of borrower complaints
about lost paperwork, broken promises and missed deadlines that
cost some of them their homes. The accord compels the 14 largest
servicers to repay homeowners for any losses tied to the errors.  The documents describe how firms will strengthen
communications with borrowers, limit certain foreclosures and
bolster compliance programs, the Fed said in a statement.  “Examiners found unsafe and unsound processes and
practices in residential mortgage loan servicing and foreclosure
processing at a number of supervised institutions” during
reviews from November 2010 to January 2011, the Fed said. The
central bank will “closely follow” implementation of the plans
to ensure deficiencies are fixed, it said.  JPMorgan’s Plan  In documents dated Dec. 8, New York-based  JPMorgan (JPM)  said
lack of training contributed to high error rates. The bank
started a new training program for its default underwriting
staff, and after 2,900 employees attended an average of 8 hours
of instruction, the average score on a test improved to 92.2
percent from 81.7 percent.  Lauren Francis, a JPMorgan spokeswoman, didn’t comment. A
slide show scheduled to be presented to investors today said the
bank’s “modification and refinance programs continue to be
expanded” and that servicing practices have been “largely
remediated.”  Bank of America, which had been the biggest U.S. home
lender and largest mortgage servicer during the boom years, said
in a response dated July 12 that the company was improving
oversight and that it would “make every effort” to ensure
operations were properly staffed, managed and supervised. “We
appreciate fully the seriousness of the issues we face,” the
bank said.  Straining Resources  Risk units in home loan and legacy asset servicing business
were “straining existing resources,” according to the Bank of
America’s documents, portions of which were redacted. The lender
“faces a particularly significant challenge in fielding a team
whose members have the requisite knowledge and stature to
perform risk-management oversight effectively.”  The company planned to increase  risk professionals  by more
than 30 percent to 236 by the end of 2011, and by more than 40
percent in compliance to 308 people. Some compliance staff still
acted in a “partnership” or “consultative” role and required
training to ensure their independence, according to the report.  Rick Simon , a spokesman for the  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based company, said he couldn’t immediately comment. Chief
Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  is seeking to limit
additional costs from faulty loans and foreclosures after the
2008 takeover of Countrywide Financial Corp. helped saddle the
bank with about $42 billion in expenses.  Wells Fargo  Wells Fargo & Co., (WFC)  the biggest U.S. home lender, is looking
to hire a new chief compliance officer, according to its action-
plan documents. The hiring must be completed before the company
can conduct more analysis of its staffing and compliance
functions, according to the documents, which didn’t give a
deadline. One passage in the files relating to the executive was
redacted.  Wells Fargo is also looking to fill an open position for an
executive in charge of managing the risk associated with hiring
third-party vendors, according to the documents. The bank said
it is creating a “central unit” to oversee outside firms
conducting work for the company and that a new policy for hiring
and managing those companies was expected to be completed by the
end of January.  More Hiring  Tim Marrinan, Wells Fargo’s chief compliance officer,
stepped down from the role at the end of December and plans to
retire from the company at the end of March, according to Ancel
Martinez, a company spokesman. The search for his replacement
continues, Martinez said.  Citigroup, the third-biggest U.S. bank by assets, has
filled 880 additional full-time positions “to strengthen the
operating model,” said  Sean Kevelighan , a spokesman for the New
York-based firm. He declined to comment on how many of the
positions were filled by new employees. The lender also added
several senior managers, including a chief customer officer.  “We are committed to working with our regulators to
further strengthen our foreclosure processing programs and
meeting the consent order requirements,” Kevelighan said. The
company identified and undertook changes to its foreclosure
processes in 2009, which included “significantly reinforcing
the size and training of our staff,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 