-- KKR Founders Kravis, Roberts Made $94 Million Each Last Year
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-02-27T23:15:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/kkr-s-kravis-roberts-made-94-million-each-in-2011-gain-of-around-30-.html
Henry Kravis  and George Roberts, co-
founders and co-chief executive officers of  KKR & Co. (KKR) , received
$94 million each in pay and cash dividends in 2011, about 30
percent more than a year earlier, even as profit fell.  Kravis and Roberts, who are cousins and both 68 years old,
earned about $29.9 million in compensation and $64.2 million
each in cash dividends from their ownership of KKR stock. They
both received a $300,000 salary and $29.3 million in carried
interest, or their share of deal profits, New York-based KKR
said today in a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  KKR isn’t required by the New York Stock Exchange, where
its shares are listed, to have a compensation committee because
the firm is considered a limited partnership. As a result,
executive compensation is left in the hands of Kravis and
Roberts, who serve as co-chairmen of the board of directors.  “It sounds ludicrous on the face of it,” said  David
Walker , a Boston University School of Law professor who studies
executive compensation. “The problem I’ve always had with this,
and it’s bothered me since they went public, is: What is to keep
the founders from simply taking everything out?”  At the same time, “these are the people we think of as
KKR,” Walker added. “Without them, the company would be worth
nothing, some would say.”  Profit Fell  KKR said this month that profit for 2011 dropped 65 percent
to $750.9 million as investment income declined. Market
volatility slowed gains at the firm’s funds, which increased 4
percent during the year, compared with 33 percent in 2010. Fee-
related earnings rose as the firm deployed more capital from its
private equity funds, investors added new money and transaction
fees climbed at the capital markets unit.  The income of private equity executives and its taxation
has come under public scrutiny this year as U.S. lawmakers are
considering proposals to eliminate tax breaks that benefit some
of the richest Americans.  Mitt Romney , the former Bain Capital
LLC CEO endorsed by Blackstone Group CEO  Stephen Schwarzman ,
said last month his effective  tax rate  is close to 15 percent,
less than half the top rate on ordinary income.  The income for KKR’s co-CEOs compares with $72.1 million
last year, which included $20.1 million in compensation and $52
million in dividends. The two own about 86 million shares each.  KKR dropped 1.2 percent to close at $14.58 in New York
trading. The firm’s shares have  fallen  15 percent in the last
year.  Carlyle Group  Carlyle Group , the Washington-based private equity firm
seeking to go public, said in a filing last month that its three
founders received a combined $413 million last year.  William Conway ,  Daniel D’Aniello  and  David Rubenstein  each earned a
$275,000 salary, a $3.55 million bonus and $134 million in
distributions.  Carlyle said in its registration filing that it also
doesn’t plan to create a compensation committee as the founders
“have historically made all final determinations regarding
executive officer compensation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  