-- Krugman Says Greece Running Out of Alternatives to Quitting Euro Currrency
-- B y   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 2012-02-28T10:43:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/krugman-says-greece-running-out-of-alternatives-to-euro-exit.html
Nobel-prize winning economist  Paul Krugman  said  Greece  is “close” to having to leave the 17-
member currency region as austerity measures imposed on the
nation hamper its economic recovery.  “If I were running a peripheral country I would say that
you cannot leave” the euro region, Krugman, a professor at
 Princeton University , said in Lisbon late yesterday. While it
would be “extremely disruptive,” Greece is “very close to
running out of alternatives,” he said.  Germany’s parliament approved a second Greek aid package in
Berlin yesterday, part of a plan agreed earlier this month to
stem the debt crisis. Still, finance officials from the Group of
20 nations meeting in  Mexico  over the weekend rebuffed pleas for
additional funding through the  International Monetary Fund ,
saying the region first needs to boost its own resources.
European leaders are scheduled to meet in Brussels March 1-2.  Greece’s credit ratings were cut to “Selective Default”
by Standard & Poor’s yesterday. S&P dropped Greece’s rating from
CC, two levels above default, after the government added clauses
to its debt designed to mop up investors unwilling to take part
in a bond exchange, according to the statement.  The downgrade follows a reduction last week by  Fitch
Ratings  to C, while Moody’s Investors Service has said it will
cut the nation to its lowest rating.  Greek Bailout  Greece negotiated the biggest debt restructuring in history
as it seeks to reduce national debt to 120 percent of gross
domestic product by 2020 from 160 percent last year, and to meet
the terms of a 130 billion-euro ($170 billion) international
bailout. An agreed debt swap, known as private-sector
involvement, will slice 100 billion euros off more than 200
billion euros of privately held debt if all investors
participate.  Krugman also said that  Portugal , which along with Ireland
and Greece has received an international bailout, is not at the
same stage as Greece and “with luck it never will be.” Still,
it’s “hard to believe” the country will return to bond markets
in 2013, he said.  It’s a “highly implausible proposition,” Krugman said.
“What will have happened in 19 months? The major events that
will certainly have happened are a European recession and an
outright undisguised Greek default and possibly a Greek exit
from the euro. And none of these are going to make it easier for
Portugal.”  ‘Extreme Risk’  Krugman said that euro membership has turned out to be
“unfortunate,” exposing peripheral economies to “extreme risk
with no easy way out.” The Nobel-prize laureate said tougher
budget cuts won’t help these countries as “some austerity is
necessary but calls for ever more austerity are very
disruptive.”  “It may be that in the end, there might come a decision
that the euro was a mistake,” Krugman said. “That’s going to
be difficult for anyone to acknowledge” and should come in a
time of crisis for  Europe  but it’s a “very real possibility.”  Asked about Chinese aid for Europe, Krugman said that it’s
not needed as the resources to solve the debt turmoil are “all
here in Europe.” U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner 
said in a Feb. 25 speech in Mexico that the region needs to make
its crisis-fighting commitments “credible.”  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said yesterday that there’s
“no need now for a debate on increasing the capacity” of the
euro-area’s temporary and permanent bailout funds, citing lower
bond yields for Italy and  Spain .  She said euro leaders will discuss this week moving up
capital payments for the permanent fund, the European Stability
Mechanism, and that  Germany  is willing to pay in 11 billion
euros this year if other countries speed up payments as well.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  