-- Naira Strengthens on Slower Dollar Demand, Month-End Sales
-- B y   E m e l e   O n u
-- 2012-02-27T16:57:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/naira-strengthens-on-subdued-dollar-demand-month-end-sales.html
The naira gained as  oil companies 
began month-end dollar sales to fund local operations and after
weak demand for the U.S. currency in central bank auctions.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest oil producer appreciated
0.2 percent to 157.5 per dollar as of 5:39 p.m. in Lagos, the
commercial capital.  “The naira is expected to appreciate this week,
particularly on the interbank market, as oil firms sell U.S.
dollars as part of their month-end processes,” Celeste Fauconnier and Nema Ramkhelawan-Bhana, Africa analysts at Rand
Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, wrote in an e-mailed note today.
“Dollar demand at the twice-weekly foreign currency auctions
was rather subdued last week, falling well short of the amount
offered by the central bank.”  The  Central Bank of Nigeria  offers dollars at auctions on
Mondays and Wednesdays and through interbank trading to maintain
exchange-rate stability. The oil industry is the second major
source of dollar supply in the country.  Nigeria   sold  $138.7 million at a foreign-currency auction
today, less than $150 million it put on offer, the Abuja-based
Central Bank of Nigeria said in an e-mailed statement. The
marginal rate, which is also used as the prevailing exchange
rate, was 155.90 naira, unchanged from the previous offering on
Feb. 22, it said.  Fuel imports have been a large source of pressure on
Nigeria’s foreign-currency market and demand for foreign
currency to fund fuel imports has eased, central bank Deputy
Governor Tunde Lemo told a committee probing oil subsidy
payments on Feb. 7.  Ghana ’s cedi strengthened for the second day by 0.3 percent
to 1.6996 per dollar, as of 4:41 p.m. in Accra, the nation’s
capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emele Onu in Lagos at 
 eonu1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  