-- Nation-Building in Your Bond Portfolio
-- B y   L e w i s   B r a h a m
-- 2012-02-27T22:36:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/nation-building-in-your-bond-portfolio.html
     Maybe it wasn’t enough for speculators to gamble on
whether the Italian  bond market  would escape economic
Armageddon. They needed to leverage their bets, too. How else
to explain the March 2011 introduction of the PowerShares DB
3x Italian Treasury Bond Futures exchange-traded note? It
promises to triple the monthly return of the bonds for a
nation some analysts think is teetering on the brink of
collapse. So far, so good: The fund is up 41.5
percent, year-to-date, more than any other bond fund--and most
equity ones, too.  The PowerShares product is one of 15
new, single-country, foreign-bond exchange-traded products
launched in the past 12 months. “The two big trends in ETFs
and ETNs over the last couple of years have been targeted
foreign exposure--to get access to single countries--and the
move toward fixed income,” says Martin Kremenstein, chief
investment officer of Deutsche Bank’s db-X Group, which issued
and manages the ETNs for PowerShares. “We’re marrying those
two trends.” PowerShares offers eight different foreign-bond
ETNs for Germany,  Japan  and  Italy , half of which are
leveraged. Its Japan ETN allows investors to make a leveraged
bet against Japanese bonds, tripling the inverse of their
returns.  Tactical Precision  Not every ETF is so high-risk. In November of last
year, Pimco introduced three unlevered ETFs tracking
German, Australian and Canadian government bond indexes.
Economically, these countries may seem to be models of
stability, compared to the U.S. “Many domestic investors have
heightened concerns about swelling U.S. debt levels, slow
economic growth and a weakening dollar and are seeking
opportunities to diversify outside the U.S.,” says  David
Fisher , who manages the new index ETFs. “With the  U.S. economy 
now representing a much smaller share of global gross domestic
product, it currently makes sense to invest in countries with
relatively healthy economic fundamentals and robust growth
trajectories, such as Australia, Canada and  Germany .”  Financial advisers who want to allocate bond portfolios
among nations with more tactical precision have stoked demand
for these ETFs. “When you take a really broad-based approach
to an international bond ETF, you’re overweighting those
countries that have most mismanaged their finances,” says
Tyler Mordy, research director of HAHN Investment Stewards &
Co., a Toronto-based financial advisory firm that specializes
in ETFs.  That’s because most bond indexes are
market-capitalization weighted, which means the countries that
have issued the most debt--and are thus the most
over-leveraged--have the largest weightings in ETFs that track
those indexes. “So we favor single-country bond ETFs or, at
the least, regionally focused ones like an Asian
local-sovereign-debt bond ETF,” Mordy says.  China Bets  Of the new country ETFs, Mordy is most interested in the
Chinese bond funds, such as the Market Vectors Renminbi Bond
ETF. He thinks the Renminbi currency is undervalued and that
the ETF’s yield to maturity of about 3 percent, on top of the
potential for currency appreciation, will lead to good
returns. “China doesn’t have Western-style capitalism, where
currencies are free-floating,” he says. “The government is
managing its Renminbi appreciation with an explicit target of
five to seven percent a year. So we think the case for
investing in that currency is really strong.”  Still, given the credit and interest-rate risks of
investing in a volatile emerging market, Mordy wouldn’t
allocate more than five percent of the portfolios he manages
to this fund.  Different Animals  There are some important structural differences between
foreign-bond ETFs and foreign-bond ETNs. ETNs are actually
bonds; in PowerShares's case, they are issued by Deutsche
Bank. So if Deutsche Bank were to go bankrupt, you could lose
your investment.  The new foreign ETNs, though bonds themselves, don’t
actually invest in bonds. They track bond futures in their
chosen countries. As a result, they don’t pay out any
interest; the interest gets added to the value of the ETN’s
share price. This has significant advantages because
shareholders won’t owe any taxes on a bond ETN until they sell
it. If they hold it for over a year, they get taxed at the
long-term  capital gains  rate of 15 percent.  Investors should keep a close eye on the tax treatment of
ETNs, which can get tricky. For tax purposes, ETNs are treated
as prepaid contracts. In 2007, the IRS ruled against embedded
income gains on currency ETNs being treated exclusively as
capital gains while investors in competing currency ETFs had
to pay income taxes. The same dynamic could play out with bond
ETNs and ETFs.  By contrast, some bond ETFs, such as Pimco’s, invest in
actual bonds and pay interest, which is taxed as income at a
maximum rate of 35 percent. On the positive side, there is no
credit risk to the ETF structure.  In the case of that leveraged Italian-bond ETN, it will
likely be the best bond investment of 2012--or the worst. “A
default of Italian debt, which is the fourth-largest bond
market in the world, would set the stage for the financial
Armageddon we saw in 2008,” says Gibson Smith, co-manager of
the Janus Global Bond Fund. “I don’t think the
politicians, the financial regulators and the leaders of the
global economy are going to allow that to happen.”  Currently, 10-year Italian  government bonds  yield about
5.4 percent, down from a November 2011 peak of 7.4 percent.
(Bond prices move inversely to their yields.) U.S. 10-year
Treasury bonds yield 2.o percent. That's a big gap, but
“leverage cuts both ways on the upside and the downside,”
notes Mordy. “We don’t employ leverage for our clients.” For
investors, rather than speculators, an urge for something
Italian may be best satisfied with a nice Brunello.
 