-- Newer Hedge Funds Got $12.4 Billion in Deposits Since 2009, Citigroup Says
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2012-02-27T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/newer-hedge-funds-got-12-4-billion-in-deposits-since-2009-citigroup-says.html
Newly started hedge funds received
$12.4 billion in deposits from 2009 through 2011 from investors
that believe many managers perform best during their early
years, according to a  Citigroup Inc. (C)  report.  Funds within their first year of existence received the
allocations from 78 global investors during the three years,
according to a Citi Prime Finance report being released today.
Citigroup surveyed 90 global investors with $368 billion in
assets, including funds of funds, family offices, private banks
and endowments, according to Sandy Kaul, head of U.S. operations
for the New York-based company’s business advisory practice.  “Performance in early years tends to be better,” Kaul
said in a telephone interview. “Investors are looking to lock
in the capacity with who they think are going to be the next
stars.”  The top quartile of small hedge funds, or those with less
than $100 million of assets, generated average annual returns of
99 percent from 2001 through 2010, according to an April study
published by London-based  Barclays Capital . Mid-size firms
managing $100 million to $500 million rose 71 percent and the
biggest funds gained 60 percent.  The opposite also proved true, with the worst-performing
small funds losing 39 percent a year, Barclays said. Big hedge
fund laggards had average losses of 28 percent.  Weighing the rewards against the risks of new managers,
investors averaged two allocations each to early-stage funds in
2011. Startup managers had to attend as many as 100 meetings in
order to win between two to four investments, according to the
report. Investors made about five allocations each to new funds
in the three-year period.  ‘Tough Numbers’  “Those are tough numbers,” Kaul said. “You need to
really present yourself and position yourself in terms of how
you compare to established managers.”  Twenty-seven percent of investors surveyed said they had
programs currently in place to invest in new hedge funds, while
73 percent said they didn’t but would consider meeting with and
allocating to early-stage managers, according to the report.  To attract capital, hedge fund startups often agreed to
lower the fees they charge investors. The traditional 2 percent
of assets and 20 percent of profits declined to 1.5 percent and
15 percent, respectively. Clients gave an average of $16 million
to each new fund initially, compared with $37.7 million per
established manager, Citigroup said.  Long-Short Favored  Investors chose newer funds with an average of $193 million
in assets and favored equity  long-short (BBHFLSEQ)  among strategies,
according to the report. Long-short managers can bet on the
prices of stocks to rise or fall. Event-driven funds, or those
that aim to profit from events such as mergers, and
multistrategy funds were also popular, Citigroup said.  An investment team’s previous experience, track record and
operations were the most important criteria investors considered
in making day one or early-stage allocations.  U.S. investors were the most active allocators to new hedge
funds and gave almost three times the amount of money given by
clients in  Europe , the  Middle East  and  Africa  and almost eight
times those from Asia Pacific financiers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  