-- News Corp. to Pay U.K. Singer Charlotte Church $951,000 Over Phone Hacking
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-02-27T18:07:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/news-corp-to-pay-951-000-to-u-k-pop-star-church-over-phone-hacking.html
News Corp. (NWSA)  agreed to pay 600,000
pounds ($950,000) to Charlotte Church, the U.K. pop star, and
admitted its News of the World tabloid hacked her mobile-phone
messages for “many years,” starting when she was 16 years old.  At a court hearing today in London, News Corp. lawyers said
the company regularly harassed Church’s family, put them under
surveillance, hacked the phone of her father and acquired
details of her mother’s “complex medical history” and suicide
attempt to write scoops about the Welsh singer, now 26.  “I would have learned nothing more from an actual trial,
since it is clear that no one from News International was
prepared to take the stand to explain their actions,” Church
said in a statement about the company’s U.K. publishing unit.
“In my opinion, they are not truly sorry, only sorry that they
got caught.”  One of about 70 victims to sue News International, Church
settled last week, days before the first civil trial over the
scandal was to begin. The deal comes after a person familiar
with the matter, who isn’t authorized to speak about the case,
said Church’s agent in  Los Angeles  and publicist in  New York 
have been identified as the first potential American victims of
the tabloid’s hacking.  Medical Information  Church, a mother of two, told an inquiry into media ethics
that News Corp.’s Sun daily tabloid may have hacked her phone to
report her pregnancy in 2007 before she’d told her friends and
family. While that claim wasn’t part of her case, the company
said today it had obtained the singer’s private medical
information through phone-hacking and didn’t elaborate.  Church and her parents, James and Maria, sued in December
after the  Metropolitan Police  showed them evidence the News of
the World’s ex-private investigator,  Glenn Mulcaire , who was
jailed for phone hacking, had intercepted their phone messages
as recently as 2006 to write stories about them.  Church, who sang at  Rupert Murdoch ’s wedding in 1999, when
she was 13, had sought special damages in the case due to the
distress the stories caused her mother. The News of the World in
2005 reported Church’s father was having an affair and used
cocaine, and that her mother tried to kill herself as a result.  “The trial wasn’t going to be about phone hacking,”
Church said last week in an interview at her home near Cardiff,
Wales. “They were going to do everything they could to weaken
us, especially my mom. That’s obviously where it was going and I
didn’t want to see them go through it again.”  Mental State  The settlement came after the company won a judge’s
permission to examine Maria Church’s mental state during a
trial, potentially to reduce damages. By the time the deal was
reached, the singer’s mother had already submitted to a medical
exam at News Corp.’s request, Church said.  News Corp. “has an immense amount of power,” Church said.
“I know how difficult it was for my mom and she did an amazing
job.”  News Corp. said today it had harassed Church’s mother in
the past and coerced her into giving an interview about her
attempted suicide. The company wouldn’t have been as forthcoming
at a trial, the singer said.  News International was “prepared to go to any lengths to
prevent me exposing their behavior,” Church said her statement
today. The company sought to turn the case “into an
interrogation of my mother’s medical condition, forcing her to
re-live the enormous personal distress they caused.”  Potential Victims  News Corp., which shuttered the News of the World in July
in an attempt to contain public anger, still faces more claims.
The police have identified 829 potential victims and News Corp.
is facing 14 new phone-hacking cases, company lawyer  Hugh Tomlinson  said at the hearing today.  Cherie Blair , the wife of
former Prime Minister  Tony Blair , sued the New York-based
company last week. The company published the first Sunday
edition of the Sun yesterday.  At a separate judicial inquiry into press ethics today, the
police officer in charge of criminal probes into phone hacking,
computer hacking and bribes at News Corp.’s U.K. titles, said
there was a culture of corrupt payments at the Sun. Ten of the
tabloid’s journalists have been arrested in the bribery probe.  “The journalists had a network upon which to call at
various strategic places across public life,” Metropolitan
Police Service Deputy Assistant Commissioner Sue Akers told the
inquiry in  London . Payments may have been made to soldiers,
Ministry of Defense officials and other public servants, as well
as police officers, she said.  ‘Of the Past’  Murdoch said in a statement that the practices described by
Akers were “of the past, and no longer exist at the Sun.”  Church was the last victim whose case was ready for trial
after dozens of other celebrities and lawmakers settled. Actor Jude Law accepted 130,000 pounds to drop his claim last month
and sports agent Sky Andrew, one of the first to sue, agreed
earlier this month to settle for 75,000 pounds. The company has
paid more than $15 million to settle such cases.  “I hope people don’t feel let down -- I know a lot of
people wanted me to go to trial,” said Church, who turned her
dining room into an “investigative headquarters” during the
case. “We’ve put so much effort and energy and money into the
case -- it has taken over my life.”  Judge Geoffrey Vos said he would set another deadline for
new phone-hacking victims to come forward and that a trial could
take place a year from now, if they don’t settle. News
International is making “superhuman efforts” to settle the
cases, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  