-- NHL’s Nashville Predators Get Andrei Kostitsyn From Montreal at Deadline
-- B y   M i k e   B u t e a u
-- 2012-02-28T05:15:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/nhl-s-nashville-predators-get-andrei-kostitsyn-from-montreal-at-deadline.html
Thirty-two players changed clubs in
16 trades in the hours leading up to yesterday’s  National Hockey
League  trading deadline.  The Nashville Predators added scoring and bulk by acquiring
right wing Andrei Kostitsyn from  Montreal  and 6-foot-5, 212-
pound center Paul Gaustad from Buffalo.  The Tampa Bay Lightning, who are six points out of a
playoff spot in the Eastern Conference, revamped their defense
with three trades, adding defensemen Mike Commodore from  Detroit ,
Keith Aulie from Toronto and Brian Lee from Ottawa.  “Defensemen are hard to find,” Lightning General Manager
Steve Yzerman told reporters. “We’re looking for young guys,
and for guys whose contracts are appropriate. We’re obviously
trying to find good players, and good players that don’t make a
lot of money. And that’s not an easy thing to do.”  In exchange,  Tampa Bay  sent a seventh-round draft pick in
2013 to Detroit for Commodore, forward Carter Ashton to Toronto
for Aulie and defenseman Matt Gilroy to Ottawa for Lee.  The Predators sent the Canadiens a second-round draft pick
in 2013 for Kostitsyn, who will be reunited in Nashville with
his brother, Sergei. The Predators also returned a 2013 fifth-
round pick they received from Montreal as part of a swap that
brought defenseman Hal Gill to Nashville on Feb. 17.  Andrei Kostitsyn had 12 goals and 12 assists in 53 games
with Montreal this season, his seventh in the NHL. He will join
the Predators in time for today’s game in Carolina, the team
said in a news release announcing the trade. The Kostitsyn
brothers previously played three seasons together with Montreal
from 2007-2010.  For Gaustad, who ranks 10th in the NHL with a 56.8 percent
faceoff win percentage, the Sabres received a 2012 first-round
pick. Gaustad has seven goals and 10 assists in 56 games with
Buffalo along with 70 penalty minutes, including four fights.  Canucks Get Pahlsson  The  Vancouver Canucks  obtained center Samuel Pahlsson from
the Columbus Blue Jackets for defenseman Taylor Ellington and
two 2012 fourth-round draft picks. The Blue Jackets are in last
place in the NHL with an 18-37-7 record.  In other trades, the New Jersey Devils acquired veteran
defenseman Marek Zidlicky from the Minnesota Wild for three
players and two draft picks, and the  New York Rangers  added 6-
foot-8, 270-pound defenseman John Scott from  Chicago  for a 2012
fifth-round pick. Scott has one goal, four assists and 231
penalty minutes in 140 career NHL games with Minnesota and
Chicago.  The  Boston  Bruins were involved in two trades, adding
forward Brian Rolston and defenseman Mike Mottau from the New
York Islanders for minor-leaguers Yannick Riendeau and
defenseman Marc Cantin, and defenseman Greg Zanon from  Minnesota 
for forward Steve Kampfer, who had played 10 games with Boston
this season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta  at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  