-- No Company Follows Apple’s Expanded China Factory Audits: Tech
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 2012-02-27T00:11:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/no-company-follows-apple-allowing-expanded-china-audits-amid-abuses-tech.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s rivals aren’t rushing
to emulate the iPhone maker’s decision to subject supplier
factories to audits by a labor group. Instead, they’re sticking
to internal checks that may leave room for violations -- and
negative public relations fallout.  Apple said on Feb. 14 the Fair Labor Association had
started independent audits amid criticism of conditions at its
 plants  in  China . Companies including  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  Dell Inc. (DELL) ,
Hewlett-Packard Co. and Samsung Electronics Co. rely on their
own evaluations, based in part on guidelines from the Electronic
Industry Citizenship Coalition, which they say are sufficient to
prevent abuses.  Though Apple’s decision to join FLA may not root out all
instances of labor abuse, the EICC’s  member  companies may open
themselves to even harsher criticism. While the EICC sets
standards for ethics, worker safety and labor practices, it
doesn’t require members to disclose findings and it lacks
enforcement powers. The result is a disjointed system of self-
imposed regulations that fail to hold companies accountable when
abuses arise, according to labor advocates and technology
executives.  “They are absolutely toothless,” said Tom Fallon, chief
executive officer of  Infinera Corp. (INFN) , a Sunnyvale, California-
based maker of telecommunications equipment that hasn’t joined
the EICC because Fallon says the group isn’t effective. “I
don’t think they do meaningful work.”  Wendy Dittmer, a spokeswoman for EICC, said she doesn’t
know of any instance of a factory losing business, permanently
or temporarily, for failing to live up to the group’s code of
conduct. The  EICC  doesn’t require companies to share those
details about their relations with business partners, she said.  Foxconn  Technology companies are under scrutiny for working
conditions at  Foxconn Technology Group (2354)  and other manufacturers’
Chinese plants, where the world’s best-selling gadgets are
assembled. Workers making Apple products log 11 hours of work a
day, six days a week, while production speeds are so high that
workers aren’t able to rest while making iPads, according to New
York-based  China Labor Watch . Employees have been exposed to
dangerous aluminum dust, the group said. Foxconn installed
safety nets and hired counselors and psychologists in response
to multiple suicides in 2010.  Apple’s FLA Membership  Amid the criticism, including a  New York  Times
investigation highlighting Foxconn’s labor conditions, Apple
opened factories to the FLA, a Washington-based nonprofit
organization, and said that the group would inspect plants owned
by three of its largest manufacturing partners. Apple in January
also listed its suppliers for the first time. The company has
disclosed instances of rights violations in an annual progress
report since 2006, though it has never specified where or at
which suppliers the violations occurred.  Foxconn also said on Feb. 18 that it was raising wages to
$290 a month, double the level of three years ago.  No other technology company has sought membership in the
FLA, said CEO Auret van Heerden. Founded in 1999 to address
working conditions in the apparel industry, most of the group’s
34  member companies  come from that business, including Nike Inc.
and Adidas AG.  Unlike the EICC, FLA member companies must agree to
disclose their suppliers and to submit to unannounced visits
from the FLA or third-party auditors. The FLA also posts results
of all audits on its website.  The  67-member  EICC, a Washington-based trade group founded
in 2004, doesn’t require companies to stop using suppliers or
manufacturers regardless of their record on treatment of
workers. It dictates only that “members commit to continuous
improvement,” said Dittmer, the group’s spokeswoman. Cupertino,
California-based Apple also is a member of the EICC.  Internal Audits  When it comes to ensuring factories’ ability to reliably
make a quality product, most companies in the EICC insist that
all factories earn certifications to ensure a plant can reliably
deliver high-quality products.  The  EICC  doesn’t require any such certification regarding
the treatment of workers. Member companies may choose an EICC-
sanctioned outside auditor, usually paid by the company. Yet,
companies aren’t required to make the results of their audits
public or share them with the EICC. Each company owns the
results of its audits, Dittmer said.  A drawback to both the FLA’s and EICC’s approach is
inspections often don’t include suppliers further down the
supply chain, said Mike Fawkes, a former supply-chain executive
at  Hewlett-Packard. (HPQ)  A handheld product like the iPhone has
 hundreds  of parts, many of them made by small companies in
China.  Defining ‘High-Risk’  Even the FLA only requires companies to audit about 5
percent of companies in their supply chains, down from 30
percent when the organization was created, said Heather White,
who founded workplace-auditing firm Verite in 1995 and is now a
fellow at Harvard’s Edmond J. Safra Center for Ethics.  Until recently, the EICC hadn’t required member companies
to audit a specific percentage of its suppliers, the EICC’s
Dittmer said. In 2010, the EICC members voted to create a
compliance program to include a requirement that members audit
some percentage of “high risk” factories owned by the company
or important suppliers. The board voted on Feb. 17 on what
number of high-risk suppliers would need to be inspected, though
it hasn’t released the result. She says the definition of high-
risk is up to each company.  Need for ‘Vision’  The technology industry’s inconsistent approach illustrates
the need for a more comprehensive strategy to prevent excessive
overtime, poor pay and dangerous chemical exposure, said Scott
Nova, executive director of Worker Rights Consortium, a group
that investigates factory conditions.  “We don’t see that kind of vision,” said Nova, who is
based in  Washington . “We see it with technological innovation,
with design and marketing, but we don’t see it when it comes to
human rights.”  The EICC was formed when large U.S. technology companies
sought to create an industry code of conduct. Almost all of them
had outsourced most of their production in the previous decade,
and had watched as Nike and other apparel makers came under
criticism for child-labor violations and other workplace issues.  “None of us wanted to get Nike’d,” said Fawkes, the
former executive at Hewlett-Packard, the world’s largest maker
of personal computers.  Getting Started  Fawkes said the founding members of the EICC, including
Dell and  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , sincerely wanted
to improve working conditions at their suppliers. The companies
debated whether to let members satisfy the code of conduct as
they saw fit, or to implement a more explicit certification
process. In the end, they went with the less rigorous approach.  “We felt we had to get something started, because this was
going to be a long journey,” said Fawkes, who is now a venture
capitalist at  VantagePoint Capital Partners . “These supply
chains are 10 levels deep, and we intuitively knew that the
lower you got, the worse the conditions got.”  Some executives said it’s unfair to demonize Western
technology companies, which outsourced production to  Asia  to
deal with competitive pressure to keep prices low, since
workplace norms are so different in China. In addition, many
workers in China were young people from the countryside who
wanted to make as much money as quickly as they could, said
Michael Marks, former CEO of  Flextronics International Ltd. (FLEX) , the
world’s largest contract manufacturer before Foxconn’s rise a
decade ago.  “Most Chinese workers at that point in time wanted as much
overtime as they could get,” he said. “If we tried to limit
them to 50 hours, we’d get complaints.”  Microsoft, Dell, Samsung  Companies that are part of the EICC defend their practices
even if they don’t plan to partner with FLA. Microsoft, whose
Xbox game system is assembled by Foxconn, said it has a code of
conduct that suppliers are required to meet, including factory
inspections, or they risk losing contracts.  Dell, the third-largest maker of personal computers, has
employees inspect suppliers’ operations, including Foxconn’s,
said  David Frink , a spokesman. “It’s an ongoing process,” he
said. “We’re encouraged by the progress.”  Samsung, the world’s biggest smartphone maker last year,
said it has a “limited” relationship with Foxconn. The company
doesn’t have any current plans to partner with the Fair Labor
Association and will continue to monitor production on its own.  ‘Clear Requirements’  “All Samsung Electronics supplier agreements contain clear
requirements for labor and workplace standards that are
consistent with industry best practices and fully compliant with
local laws and regulations,” said SungIn Cho, a Samsung
spokeswoman.  Shelby Watts, a spokeswoman for Hewlett-Packard, said the
company “takes seriously the challenge of raising social and
environmental responsibility standards in its supply chain.”  Hewlett-Packard “engages regularly with its contract
manufacturers, industry peers and non-governmental organizations
to establish and implement continual improvements in overall
working conditions in electronics manufacturing worldwide,” she
said.  In the company’s 2010 corporate responsibility report it
said it found child-labor violations at 1 percent to 10 percent
of its audited sites, and excessive working hours at more than
half. The  Palo Alto , California-based company didn’t provide
more specifics about the violations.  ‘Hands-On’ Assessment  Companies that aren’t members of EICC also have internal
inspections under way.  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the world’s second-largest
maker of mobile phones, said it works with aid organization
 Oxfam  and the  International Metalworkers Federation  to ensure
proper conditions. Nokia said it tours factories, interviews
workers and managers, and reviews documents to assess many
aspects of labor practices.  “To be truly responsible in this area, you have to be very
hands-on,” Nokia said in a statement.  Even before Apple joined the FLA, conditions at its
factories were better than others in the technology industry,
said Yuan Fan, a researcher at China Labor Watch.  “We see more improvement in Apple’s supply chain,” Yuan
said. “The other companies that we talk with don’t have so many
improvements. They are mainly focused on building a relationship
with the labor groups as PR.”  Customer Demands  Rival technology companies may follow Apple in partnering
with the FLA if customers begin to see Apple as having higher
standards, said Jerry Kim, a management professor at  Columbia
Business School  in New York.  “It will boil down to whether customers demand it,” said
Kim, who researches management strategies and how companies deal
with regulation. “There’s always an incentive to have the worst
labor practices so long as customers don’t know. If Apple and
the FLA can elevate this to a level where customers are
demanding to see that certification, then competitors will have
no choice but to join.”  And audits and factory inspections can only go so far. If
technology companies are serious about improving conditions,
they need to accept lower  profit margins  and slower production
times, Worker Rights Consortium’s Nova said.  “As long as the company is not willing to demand change
from suppliers, and adjust prices and delivery deadlines to
implement that change, we’re not going to see it,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Burrows in San Francisco at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  