-- Nokia Offers Cheaper Windows Phone to Nip Android Expansion
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-02-27T10:18:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/nokia-offers-cheaper-windows-smartphone-to-nip-android-expansion.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the world’s third-largest
smartphone maker by shipments, will sell a Windows Phone priced
at 189 euros ($254) in the second quarter to capture first-time
users against similar devices powered by Google Inc.’s Android.  The Lumia 610 will be 30 percent less expensive than
Nokia’s current cheapest smartphone running Microsoft’s Corp.’s
Windows platform. The device will be targeted at young people to
hook them to the company’s new platform. Nokia also announced a
high-resolution camera phone as it returned to the  Mobile World
Congress  in Barcelona,  Europe ’s biggest wireless show, with its
first product introduction in three years.  Nokia Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop won good reviews
for the first two Lumia phones using the Microsoft platform,
which sold “well over 1 million” units, he said Jan. 26.
Nokia’s shares have fallen about 10 percent since it unveiled
those handsets Oct. 26 as consumers continued to bypass Windows
Phones in favor of Android handsets costing as little as $100
and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone, which broadened its range with
discounted older devices.  “Nokia has come back with a vengeance,” Elop said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television today. “We’re absolutely
mobbed today because of the range of product and services” the
company is showing at the Mobile World Congress.  Bigger Ecosystem  Microsoft has adapted Windows Phone software so that it
requires half as much memory and runs the cheaper 7X27A chip
from Qualcomm Inc. That should help manufacturers cut their
costs.  “The new Nokia Lumia 610 is the perfect introduction of
Windows to a younger audience,” said Jo Harlow, Nokia’s
smartphones chief. “We are now able to cover a range of needs
and a range of price points.”  The price of the Lumia 610 “makes it very competitive with
the low-end Android devices,” said  Carolina Milanesi , a
research vice president at Gartner Inc. The handset will be
attractive to operators as it will require very little subsidy,
she said. “You build momentum, you build volume and then you
build interest in the ecosystem.”  The Lumia will run on the updated version of Microsoft’s
software, Windows Phone 7.5, known as Mango, which will be based
on cheaper hardware, according to the announcement.  “Nokia is starting to deliver on Elop’s promise to bring
down the price points and enlarge the Windows Phone ecosystem,”
said Martin Garner, a London-based analyst at CCS Insight.
“It’s still too early to proclaim success, the volumes are not
there, but he is executing and doing it at the right sort of
speed.”  Emerging Markets  The manufacturer also said that its high-end Lumia 900
device, which will first go on sale in the U.S. with operator
AT&T Inc., won’t be made available on any other fourth-
generation network except in  Canada . The handset, which will be
sold in the second quarter and costs 480 euros, will run on a
form of third-generation technology called HSPA+.  Nokia, based in Espoo,  Finland , also introduced three
phones for its Asha line, sold primarily in emerging markets.
The company got about 46 percent of its sales last year from
these handsets and other low-end phones, which lag behind
smartphones in processing speed and applications such as video
calling and corporate e-mail. The company’s new camera-phone,
the 808 Pure View, will have a 41 megapixel sensor, alongside
optics jointly developed with Carl Zeiss AG.  Smartphone Growth  “We are demonstrating the actions necessary to improve the
fortunes of Nokia, very deliberately recognizing challenges,
changing strategy and then executing very aggressively against
that,” Elop said. “That’s the path you’ll see us continue to
execute day in and day out.”  Smartphone sales may grow 39 percent this year from 472
million units, according to researcher Gartner. Android and the
iPhone together accounted for  almost three quarters  of
smartphone sales last quarter, while Nokia’s share was 12
percent, Gartner said. A billion people may use smartphones by
2016, Forrester Research said in a  report  this month.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  said it plans to bring its Windows Phone
software to 23 new countries and put the operating system on
less expensive smartphones. Microsoft will kick off the
expansion by opening mobile-application stores in  China ,
 Thailand ,  Venezuela  and the 20 other nations by the end of the
month, with phones arriving around the same time. That will
bring the total number of markets Microsoft serves to 63,
letting it target 60 percent more buyers.  Value Drop  Nokia has lost more than 60 billion euros in market value
since Apple introduced the iPhone in 2007, including a 14
percent drop on Feb. 14, 2011, the day Elop announced that Nokia
would embrace Windows Phone and taper off its 10-year-old
Symbian product line.  “Investor confidence will be built as we execute our
strategy,” Elop said.  Nokia will need the U.S. market for brand credibility and
 emerging markets  for volume. It’s preparing to sell the Lumia
900 handset with AT&T while the Lumia 710 is in shops including
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. Nokia will offer Lumias in China and  Latin
America  by July, Elop said Jan. 26. Last year its handset
revenues  fell  in all regions except the Middle East and  Africa 
and Latin America. The Lumia 710 costs 270 euros.  The company introduced the Communicator, one of the first
handsets to surf the Internet, in 1996. Its N8 Symbian
smartphone, introduced in 2010, had a 12-megapixel camera.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Browning in Barcelona via 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Barcelona via 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  