-- Nokia Agrees With Voddler on Movie Access Deal for Mobile Phones
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2012-02-27T07:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/nokia-agrees-with-voddler-on-movie-access-deal-for-mobile-phones.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  signed a deal to become
the sole smartphone partner of Voddler Group AB, a Swedish
online film service that plans to expand throughout  Europe  this
year, plugging a gap in the handset maker’s service offerings.  Voddler’s movie and television streaming service, which
includes a social watching element, will be a standard
application on Nokia Lumia phones shipped to the region by the
end of this year, Voddler Chief Executive Officer Marcus
Baecklund said in an interview in advance of the Mobile World
Congress in Barcelona,  Spain . Nokia owns about 15 percent of
Voddler through its venture arm.  Voddler , based in Stockholm, is among companies banking on
the Internet soon becoming the dominant distribution mechanism
for movies and TV shows after first release. Faster broadband
networks, which came first to the Nordic region, are finally
making a broader rollout practical, Baecklund said. The Nokia
deal will save Voddler 100 million euros ($134 million) in
advertising spending and speed up expansion, he said.  “Nokia will do the marketing part and I can build my brand
and take 100 percent of the revenues,” Baecklund said. “It’s
obvious they need to have a really good app.” Voddler plans to
expand outside Europe with Espoo, Finland-based Nokia next year,
he said.  Expansion Strategy  Voddler has 1.3 million subscribers in Scandinavia, where
it will introduce the Lumia app first. Spain will follow in
April.  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , the U.S. competitor which started service
in January in the U.K. and Ireland, has shelved plans to expand
further in Europe as it works through a cash shortage.  Nokia, whose  mobile phones  appear as props in movies such
as “ Slumdog Millionaire ,” has struggled to build a video
library to counter  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iTunes. Nokia held discussions
with studios as it started the Ovi Store app outlet in 2009, but
never announced a movie service.  Development of the Voddler-Nokia tie-up began in the last
few months of 2011, Baecklund said. It was overseen at Nokia by
Bryan Biniak, who ran TV-data startup  Jacked Inc.  before joining
the phonemaker in 2010.  Voddler’s expansion across Europe will intensify
competition with  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s Lovefilm.com DVD rental and
video-streaming service, which now has more than  2 million 
subscribers in Scandinavia, the U.K. and  Germany , as well as
with  Modern Times Group AB (MTGB) ’s Viaplay and services from cable and
phone companies.  Sharing Versus Centralization  Voddler says its technology, which combines central
distribution and copy protection with peer-to-peer sharing to
speed up streaming, offers higher quality than competitors’
centralized systems. Movies are available through pay-per-view
streaming, though most of the catalog is offered free and
supported by advertising. Viewing can be paused and continued
across different platforms, including connected televisions and
computers.  “The mobile device is an excellent device for remote
control, planning and scheduling, but you prefer to watch on a
big screen if you can,” Baecklund said. The Movie Night
function will let users invite friends to a viewing, and those
who aren’t physically present can watch the movie and chat on
Lumia phones, PCs or televisions, he said.  Voddler is also readying Movie Night for existing apps for
Nokia’s Symbian and MeeGo smartphones, he said.  “The endgame for us is the living room, and we are doing
anything we can to widen the user base that will use the living
room,” Baecklund said.  Market Growth  The subscription-TV market in Europe,  Africa  and the  Middle
East , including pay-TV, video-on-demand, mobile and video-
streaming services as well as license fees, will expand 24
percent to $95 billion in the next four years, according to
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. Internet-streamed videos are
forecast to be the fastest growing segment.  Voddler has deals with most big Hollywood studios, though
not yet with  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Twentieth Century Fox, and with the
British Broadcasting Corp. as well as local producers in
Scandinavia. Its 5,000 titles from about 45 content partners
include “Bridesmaids,” “Crazy Stupid Love,” the Harry Potter
films and episodes of the “Big Bang Theory” TV series.  Studios are becoming more liberal about licensing as they
find their release window and regional restrictions ineffective
against illegal free download services, Baecklund said.  “The pirates get all the titles first and legal services
like us have to wait,” Baecklund said. “And the longer we
wait, the more revenue gets lost on piracy because everyone has
already watched online.”  Partnerships  Voddler is holding partnership discussions with Spanish
operators and  Western Digital Corp. (WDC) , which makes connected
entertainment boxes for TVs. It already works with Telenor ASA’s
Bredbandsbolaget fixed-broadband unit and  Hutchison Whampoa
Ltd. (13) ’s 3 Scandinavia wireless brand in Sweden, as well as with
Finland’s  Elisa Oyj. (ELI1V)   Elisa, Eqvitec Partners Oy, and Munich- and San Jose-based
private equity investors Cipio Partners GmbH have also put money
into Voddler. Investments so far have amounted to 25 million
euros and the Swedish company will spend another 25 million
euros to expand, Baecklund said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  