-- Nomura Reeling From Lehman Hangover as Shibata Vows No Retreat
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B a k e r   a n d   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2012-02-28T12:43:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/nomura-reeling-from-lehman-hangover-as-shibata-vows-no-retreat.html
At 8 a.m. on Jan. 10, Takumi Shibata, chief operating officer of  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , walked
into the firm’s  London  boardroom overlooking the River Thames to
try to salvage the 2008 acquisition of the European and Asian
units of bankrupt  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)   Shibata, who had flown in from  Tokyo , assembled senior
executives at Nomura’s wholesale business, which includes
investment banking and sales and trading, Bloomberg Markets
magazine reports in its April issue.  The unit’s head,  Jesse Bhattal , Shibata’s handpicked deputy
and putative successor, was on videoconference from Singapore
with news: He was stepping down. Before the meeting, Shibata had
told Bhattal’s lieutenant, Tarun Jotwani, the former Lehman
trader running global markets from London, that his position was
being eliminated, according to three people familiar with the
situation who asked not to be identified because the company
hasn’t made the information public.  The departure of the top two former Lehman executives was
the culmination of a clash with Nomura’s old guard over
competing visions for the future of  Japan ’s largest brokerage,
the people say. Bhattal argued for an aggressive approach to
businesses that weren’t generating high returns. His bosses in
Tokyo wanted to stay the course to build an international
investment-banking franchise.  The dispute emerged as the wholesale division suffered $1.1
billion in pretax losses in the six months ended on Sept. 30.
While the unit recovered late last year, Nomura Holdings had a
10.5 billion yen ($140 million)  net loss  for the nine months
through the end of 2011.  Fourth Foray  For the 86-year-old firm, which is making its fourth
attempt to emerge on the global financial stage, things aren’t
going well: Since the Lehman deal, its  shares  have fallen about
70 percent, reaching a 37-year low on Nov. 24. The stock today
fell as much as 2.7 percent before closing at 383 yen, erasing
earlier losses to end the day up 1.3 percent.  To steer Nomura toward profitability, Bhattal, 55, wanted
big cuts in equities, investment banking and the firm’s U.S.
business -- as much as $1.6 billion, the people say. At the same
time, he saw opportunities to buy assets being unloaded by
European banks to meet tougher capital rules. Executives in
Tokyo balked, saying it would be a retreat from the firm’s
international ambitions and could erode capital reserves.  After Bhattal said goodbye during the January conference
call, Shibata spent 10 minutes explaining that Nomura’s strategy
of becoming a global player wouldn’t change and that he would
take over the wholesale business, a job he had given to Bhattal
less than a year before.  “Nomura remains committed to being a global, Asia-based
investment bank,” Shibata, 59, says he told the group.  Jotwani and Bhattal declined to comment for this story.  Opera-Loving Lifer  The firm’s future now rests largely in the hands of
Shibata, an opera-loving Nomura lifer with a degree from Harvard
Business School. If he fails to rescue the deal he championed,
the Lehman acquisition will go down as yet another doomed
attempt to compete with the top firms of Wall Street and London.  Nomura has had big ambitions for decades. It expanded
abroad in the 1980s, only to retreat to Tokyo as Japan’s economy
faltered. Attempts in the mid-1990s and mid-2000s foundered as
well. Calling the acquisition of Lehman’s international units a
“once-in-a-generation opportunity,” Nomura Group Chief
Executive Officer Kenichi Watanabe and Shibata scooped up
Lehman’s European operations for just $2 and the Asian franchise
for $225 million in what was supposed to be a game-changing bid
to compete head-on with Wall Street banks weakened by the
financial crisis.  ‘Inability to Implement’  Once the world’s biggest securities firm with a market
value of $76 billion in 1987, Nomura has a  market value  of $18.2
billion, one-third that of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   “The firm’s ambition has been to be the Japanese Morgan
Stanley or Goldman Sachs -- a major global player,” says
William Overholt, chief regional strategist at Nomura in  Hong
Kong  until 2001 and now a senior fellow at Harvard University’s
Kennedy School of Government. “It has suffered from an
inability to implement its strategy.”  Now, after taking on 8,000 Lehman employees and building
its U.S. presence from scratch, Nomura is tinkering with its
strategy rather than embarking on a radical shift. It scaled
back commodities trading, real-estate securities and prime
brokerage services for hedge funds. It’s considering reducing
Eastern European currencies trading and investment banking in
Russia. On Nov. 1, the firm announced it would triple the cost
cuts announced in July to $1.2 billion. By the end of December,
it had cut 764 jobs out of 35,700 worldwide.  Too Little  It may be too little, too late, says Ichiro Takamatsu, a
fund manager who helps oversee $2 billion at Tokyo-based Bayview
Asset Management Co.  “The speed of the cost cuts has failed to catch up with
the changes in the market,” says Takamatsu, who formerly held
Nomura shares. “Either Watanabe or Shibata should resign to
take responsibility for the failure.”  The cuts didn’t satisfy Moody’s Investors Service, which
said on Nov. 9 it would review whether to lower Nomura’s credit
rating to one level above junk or worse. The firm said at the
time that it was “disappointed” with the decision because a
cost-cutting program was under way.  Moody’s on Feb. 16 said that Nomura’s possible downgrade
would be no more than one level, and that the review period was
being extended.  Shares of Nomura are down 26 percent in the past 12 months,
compared with a 8.5 percent drop for the Nikkei 225 Stock
Average. They have gained 53 percent since the Jan. 10
management shake-up. Nomura on Feb. 1 reported an unexpected
17.8 billion-yen profit for the quarter ended on Dec. 31.  ‘Survive the Storm’  While  Europe ’s prospects look bleak for the next two to
three years, Nomura isn’t retreating, Shibata says during an
interview at Zurich Airport in January after attending the World
Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. The firm remains committed
to equities and investment banking, including the U.S. business.  “We need to make sure we survive the storm, but we have no
intention of going into hibernation,” he says. “We cut out the
fat without much of a strategic change.”  Shibata, dressed in khakis, a blue blazer and a red tie
with a blue-boat pattern, says he expects to remain CEO of the
wholesale business for one to three years and hopes to find his
replacement from within Nomura’s ranks.  “We are still going for dominance in Japan, no question,”
he says. “Outside of Japan, we will focus on a narrower range
of activities, but where we are active, we want to be very
deep.”  Nomura Rankings  Nomura’s grip on Japan remains strong. It ranked No. 1
there in underwriting equities and advising on mergers and
acquisitions last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Globally, Nomura has struggled to break into the top tier.
Last year in Europe, it ranked 13th in underwriting equities and
15th in advising on mergers. It was No. 24 in underwriting
equity offerings in Asia outside of Japan. In the U.S., Nomura
ranks a distant 22nd in advising on mergers. The firm is No. 11
in Bloomberg Markets’ annual ranking of the best-paid investment
banks by total fees.  Shibata says Nomura will build on areas of strength, such
as helping financial firms raise capital and advising natural
resource companies. It’s one of five advisers to Xstrata Plc in
its $37 billion takeover by Glencore International Plc.  When Lehman went bust, Shibata was banking on an opening in
the market for a broker-dealer such as Nomura. With Bear Stearns
Cos. acquired by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and other banks hobbled by
government bailouts, he figured Nomura could make headway.  “I was wrong,” Shibata says. “I thought in 2008 we were
going to a world where European banks would go back to being
commercial banks. If they were to receive taxpayers’ money,
taxpayers would demand the money be used for transactions in
that country.”  Slimmed-Down World  Shibata isn’t the only one now trying to steer an
investment bank through the newly slimmed-down financial world,
in which capital requirements are rising, trading volumes have
collapsed and banks are deleveraging. European sovereign-debt
woes and capital constraints imposed by regulators following the
financial crisis are making it harder to generate returns.  Financial firms worldwide announced more than 230,000 job
cuts last year as they tried to trim costs, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  In Japan, Nomura’s rivals are faring worse.  Daiwa
Securities Group Inc. (8601)  lost 50.4 billion yen in the nine months
to Dec. 31, while  Mizuho Securities Co. (8411)  lost 63.4 billion yen in
the same period.  Ahead of Rivals  After raising $9 billion in two share offerings in 2009,
Nomura is ahead of rivals in meeting new capital rules that take
effect starting in 2015. It has a Tier 1 capital ratio of 12.9
percent of risk-weighted assets, more than the 8.5 percent
required under Basel III rules adopted by the Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision. Bhattal’s plan to use that capital to buy
risk-weighted assets met with opposition.  “We don’t feel now is the right time to reduce that
cushion,” says  David Benson , a Briton who is Nomura’s vice
chairman and who worked at the firm for about a decade until
2007 before rejoining post-Lehman. “Instinctively, as a trader
I’d like to be on the other side of the banks in their
deleveraging, but we need to be smart with our capital.”  Shibata and Watanabe, 59, worried that focusing on fixed
income would undermine their goal of building a global client-
based franchise, people familiar with the strategy clash say.
Reducing the equities division also would strike a blow to
Nomura’s heritage as Japan’s dominant broker and might look like
a retreat after buying Lehman.  Savile Row Suits  Many Nomura bankers had expected Bhattal, an Indian-born
Rhodes Scholar with a taste for Savile Row suits, to leave the
firm after he moved from Hong Kong to Singapore last summer. One
banker close to Bhattal says he didn’t see eye to eye with the
board and became frustrated that he couldn’t set strategy.  The announcement that Jotwani also was going came as more
of a shock, the people familiar with the departures say. His
fixed-income unit accounted for 47 percent of the wholesale
division’s revenue of 396.7 billion yen in the nine months ended
on Dec. 31, making it one of the more profitable areas of the
firm’s investment-banking push.  Outside Japan, the Lehman deal amounted to a reverse
takeover, with “gaijin,” or foreigners, running most of the
businesses. To integrate, Nomura embarked on a Lehman
deprogramming campaign. When senior executives uttered the “L”
word during meetings in London, they had to toss a 5-pound note
into a box, people familiar with the rule say.  Transformative Deal  The Lehman acquisition was transformative. Within three
months, Nomura’s trading volumes had swelled 10-fold. The
franchise was sizable: In 2007, Lehman made $1.3 billion in
pretax profit in Asia and $2.1 billion in Europe and the  Middle
East  -- more than half of its total profit before taxes.  The deal helped Nomura strengthen its hold on Japan’s
financial markets. The firm has the largest share of stocks
traded on the  Tokyo Stock Exchange , accounting for 14 percent of
volume, up from about 7 percent before the Lehman purchase.  It also enabled Nomura to win fees from Japanese companies
doing deals overseas, Shibata says. Nomura’s market share in
advising Japanese firms making acquisitions abroad increased to
25 percent in 2011 from about 10 percent in 2007, Bloomberg data
show. While the largest share of Nomura’s revenue now comes from
wholesale banking, the firm  earns  more from retail brokerage
services and asset management in Japan.  Wholesale banking generated 38 percent of the company’s 1
trillion yen of revenue in the nine months ended on Dec. 31
compared with 25 percent from retail. Losses at the wholesale
unit totaled 50.1 billion yen, erasing retail’s pretax profit of
42.8 billion yen during the same period. Nomura had to rely on
its private-equity sale of restaurant chain Skylark Co. for
about 128 billion yen to report profit increase in the three
months ended Dec. 31.  No Turning Back  Two years ago, with markets recovering from the financial
crisis, the wholesale division looked like a gold mine. It
earned 175.2 billion yen before taxes in the year ended on March
31, 2010 -- more than retail.  That’s when Nomura, having lost out on Lehman’s U.S.
operation to  Barclays Plc (BARC) , decided to crack Wall Street. It
embarked on a hiring spree, boosting head count in the U.S. to
2,500 from about 1,000 in 2009.  There’s no plan to turn back now, especially with signs of
a modest U.S. recovery. Late last year, Nomura signed a 20-year
lease for 20 floors at Worldwide Plaza in midtown Manhattan.  “It’s simplistic to say they can’t be overseas, but they
can’t be in all markets,” says Paul Heaton, who manages a
Japanese portfolio at London-based Pyrford International Ltd.,
which invests $3.5 billion globally. “They’ll have to rethink
the extent of the global presence they want.”  Baseball, Economics  The firm has had international ambitions since it was
founded by  Tokushichi Nomura  II in 1925. Two years later, it
became the first Japanese securities house to open a branch in
 New York , which it shut in 1936 in the run-up to World War II.
The family lost control afterward, and since then, Nomura’s
fortunes largely have tracked the ups and downs of the Nikkei
index.  While the company has been a magnet for Japan’s best and
brightest, Shibata wasn’t a typical trainee-broker. Born in the
Japanese port city of Yokohama, he’s the son of a merchant
seaman who survived several attacks during World War II. He
learned English playing baseball with an American neighbor and
joined Nomura in 1976 after getting a degree in economics at
Keio University. He was offered a job in the international
department, a position he says he declined because he wanted to
work as a broker cold-calling clients to understand the
business.  Samurai Bonds  In 1981, before the Japanese bull market took off, Nomura
sent Shibata to  Harvard Business School , where he completed a
Master of Business Administration. His class included future
executives such as Rob Kapito, president and one of the founders
of  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , and Paul Edgerley, managing director at
Boston-based private-equity firm Bain Capital LLC.  After returning to Tokyo, Shibata rose through Nomura’s
ranks. He ran the American desk of the international finance
department -- handling Samurai and euroyen bonds and non-
Japanese equity issues -- and then moved to London as head of
debt and equity syndication before leading investment banking.  To gain a presence on Wall Street in the 1980s, Nomura
lured top bond traders with the excitement of working for the
world’s largest securities firm and selling U.S. Treasuries to
hungry Japanese investors. The 1987 stock market crash and the
1989 bursting of the Japanese bubble led Nomura to scale back
its ambitions. In 1990, its stock fell almost 50 percent.  Hiring Hands  The firm tried another overseas foray, hiring  Guy Hands 
from Goldman Sachs in London to make Nomura a private-equity
giant and Ethan Penner, a pioneer of U.S. commercial-mortgage-
backed securities, in New York. Nomura later exited both
businesses.  “Net-net, the firm made a decent return on its capital
from these niches,” Nomura’s Benson says. “What it didn’t do
was build a sustainable investment-banking culture.”  In the mid-2000s, Nomura expanded in the U.S. again, this
time building a $5.5 billion residential-mortgage-securities
portfolio. Nomura began liquidating it in 2007, earlier than
rivals and before the worst of the subprime crisis hit. The firm
reported $2.4 billion in credit losses and writedowns by
mid-2008, modest compared with other Wall Street banks.  Guaranteed Bonuses  It was in a relatively healthy position when Lehman
collapsed in September of that year. Even with the bargain price
tag, the cost of the Lehman acquisition was high. Nomura
guaranteed multimillion-dollar bonuses for top bankers for two
years, locking in pre-crisis compensation.  When the last of the two-year bonuses was paid in 2010, at
least a dozen Lehman rainmakers walked out, including Christian Meissner, deputy head of global investment banking who’s now in
charge of investment banking at Bank of America Corp.  In March 2010, Shibata handed the keys to Bhattal, naming
him president and chief operating officer of a newly created
wholesale division joining investment banking with fixed income
and equities. Bhattal, a 15-year Lehman veteran, had been CEO of
the U.S. firm’s Asian business since 2000.  “Bhattal was one of the most highly regarded guys at
Lehman,” says Lawrence McDonald, a former Lehman trader and
author of “A Colossal Failure of Common Sense” (Crown
Business, 2009), a book about the firm’s collapse. “Some
executives were lightweight. He was heavyweight.”  Bhattal Takes Charge  In his first year as president, Bhattal brought order to
the fragmented house of Nomura. He created an executive
committee that met weekly to review costs, revenue and
positions. He and Shibata agreed on a hiring freeze. It looked
like the right call as markets weakened.  In April 2011, Shibata promoted Bhattal to CEO of the
division, a job Shibata had been doing himself. Nomura gave
Jotwani a new role as head of global markets, merging equities
and fixed income. Shibata says he was looking to Bhattal to
replace him and at Jotwani to succeed Bhattal.  By the end of July, with the European debt crisis
intensifying, Nomura announced it would trim $400 million in
costs from the wholesale unit. In September, Shibata and Bhattal
agreed that another round of cuts was needed, with Bhattal
pushing for deeper reductions.  He didn’t get his way. With their strategic differences
growing, Shibata and Bhattal met in Tokyo in mid-December and
agreed to part ways.  ‘Too Many Things’  Now that Bhattal and Jotwani are out, the only Lehman
alumni left running global businesses are  William Vereker , 45,
who runs investment banking from London, and 46-year-old Benoit Savoret, global head of equities in London. In January, Nomura
named Steve Ashley, 44, a former Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc trader, as head of fixed income to replace Jotwani.  A leaner Nomura means more-modest ambitions.  “We were trying to do too many things, with too many
clients, in too many places too much of the time,” says
Vereker, a Briton who joined Lehman in 2005 from  Morgan Stanley. (MS) 
“No firm can be all things to all people, especially when
you’re building a business.”  Harvard’s Overholt wonders whether history is repeating
itself.  “They’ve been on a three-year cycle in London, New York
and Hong Kong,” he says. “They put in a huge amount of money,
and the first year there’s a celebration about how successful
they’re going to be. The second year it’s OK, and the third year
they crash.”  With 4,100 staff in Europe, most of them in a new 81,800-
square-meter (880,000-square-foot) glass building in London
overlooking St. Paul’s Cathedral, Nomura executives aren’t
packing their bags and heading back to Tokyo. This time, Nomura
may be too big to contemplate failure.  Editors: Sheridan Prasso, Robert Friedman  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Baker in London at 
 stebaker@bloomberg.net ;
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at 
 mserrill@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  