-- Warner Urges Companies to Lend Expertise to Strapped Nonprofits
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-02-28T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/nonprofits-often-need-skills-over-cash-virginia-s-warner-says.html
The recession and its aftermath have
pinched the budgets of nonprofits even as demand for their
services has grown, and businesses can help fill the gap and
shore up public trust in the industry by donating workers’
expertise, Virginia Senator  Mark Warner  said.  “Rather than just giving an organization some money, how
do you actually help build their capacity?” the 57-year-old
Democrat said yesterday in an interview. “It’s great if a
corporation lets off all their folks for a day to paint or build
a house. It’s better if the corporation can lend specific
expertise to the nonprofit,” such as bookkeeping.  Warner is the honorary chairman of A Billion + Change, a
national campaign founded in 2008 to match nonprofits with so-
called skills-based volunteer services. The campaign has
attracted 78 companies pledging $1.6 billion worth of volunteer
hours, Warner told an audience at the New York headquarters of
 Morgan Stanley (MS) , one of the project’s partners.  The campaign helps companies donate their expertise in the
discipline in which they’ve excelled. For example, workers at
 United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) , the world’s largest package-delivery
company, provide logistics and transportation technology
assistance to disaster relief organizations preparing for
hurricane seasons, said Ken Sternad, president of the company’s
philanthropic arm.  $2 Billion Goal  Other participating companies include  American Express Co. (AXP) ,
 Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) ,  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) ,  General Electric
Co. (GE) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  The goal is to get
500 companies to pledge $2 billion in hours over the next 12
months, Warner said.  “It’s a win for businesses because we know that employees
are really interested in giving back, so it’s a way to retain
employees, and it’s a win for the non-profits because they get
the benefit of really talented individuals,” Robert Velasco,
acting chief executive officer of the Corporation for National
and Community Service, said in an interview. The federal agency
began the program in 2008.  “It’s also a win for the community because, when the non-
profits are stronger, they’re actually able to really strengthen
the impact they’re able to provide for the most vulnerable in
the community,” he said.  Social justice philanthropic organizations, some of the
sector’s most vulnerable, have been “disproportionately
impacted by the global financial crisis and their recovery
remains in jeopardy,” according to a November  study  by the
Foundation Center, which collects philanthropy data. Grants may
not reach 2008 levels until after 2015, the report said.  In July, Warner became honorary chairman of the campaign,
which is managed by Points of Light, an Atlanta-based nonprofit.
A former governor of  Virginia (STOVA1) , he got his start in the skills-
based philanthropy world by creating a health-care public-
private partnership in the early 1990s after founding the
precursor to wireless phone company Nextel Communications Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esmé E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  