-- Nuclear Energy Group Sues Over Uranium Mining Ban in Arizona
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-02-27T22:56:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/nuclear-energy-group-sues-to-end-u-s-uranium-mining-ban-near-grand-canyon.html
The  Nuclear Energy Institute  and the
National Mining Association said they sued the U.S. to reverse a
ban on new uranium mining on federal land around the Grand
Canyon in Arizona.  The two organizations, representing mining and nuclear
power companies, today asked a federal court in Arizona to
reverse a U.S. Interior Department ban, announced Jan. 9, on new
hard-rock mining claims on about 1 million acres (405,000
hectares) of land, according to an e-mailed statement. The
lawsuit couldn’t be independently confirmed from court records.  Richard Myers, vice president for policy development with
the nuclear power group, said in the statement that the proposed
land withdrawal was designed to protect against circumstances
that no longer exist. The land involved isn’t within the Grand
Canyon or the buffer zone protecting the national park,
according to the statement.  “Contrary to the assertions by the administration, today’s
environmental laws ensure that ore extraction and production at
uranium mines have minimal environmental impact on the
surrounding land, water and wildlife,” Myers said.  Arizona Strip  The uranium resources in the so-called  Arizona  Strip
represent about 40 percent of U.S. reserves and some of the
highest grade uranium located in the U.S., according to the
group’s statement.  Adam Fetcher, a spokesman for the Interior Department,
declined to comment on the suit.  U.S. Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  said when he signed the
20-year ban on Jan. 9 that it was part of an effort to safeguard
the $3.5 billion spent by visitors to the national park each
year.  “Tourism, leisure are very much a part of job creation of
the  United States ,” Salazar said at the time. “The jobs
associated to the Grand Canyon are not jobs that can be exported
anywhere, those are truly American jobs.”  The ban will prevent new uranium and other hard-rock mining
near Grand Canyon National Park, which was visited by
4.5 million people in 2010. Previously approved mining and new
projects on claims and sites with existing rights will be
allowed, potentially leading to development of as many as 11
uranium mines, the Interior Department said last month.  The 20-year ban on new mining claims was based on an
environmental impact study prepared by the Bureau of Land
Management, which estimated that as many as 30 uranium mines
would be developed without the ban, according to the Interior
Department.  Large stretches of very remote desert land, including an
area tourists pass through on their way to the popular North
Rim, were put off limits.  The case is National Mining Association v. Salazar, U.S.
District Court, District of Arizona.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  