-- NYSE’s Niederauer Sees South America, Asia as Growth Engines
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2012-02-27T22:47:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/nyse-s-niederauer-sees-south-america-asia-as-growth-engines.html
More of NYSE Euronext’s growth will
come from  Asia  and  South America  than  Europe , where its takeover
by Deutsche Boerse AG was blocked by regulators, according to
Chief Executive Officer  Duncan Niederauer .  “I just don’t think I can count on them for a lot of
growth in the near-term,” Niederauer said in a television
interview today on CNBC, referring to the company Europe
operations. As volume in  equity derivatives  and short-term
interest rate futures have dropped in Europe, NYSE Euronext will
focus on increasing business in Asia and South America and by
marketing its technology expertise, he said.  Profit at NYSE Euronext  climbed  19 percent in 2011 from the
prior year and is projected by analysts on average to increase
5.6 percent this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Sales rose 2.7 percent last year and are forecast to slide 13
percent in 2012, the data show. Revenue from the derivatives
business gained 25 percent, while it rose 11 percent in
technology and information services.  Investors (NYX) ’ lack of confidence in the European economy due
to the debt crisis has had a “muting effect” on business,
according to Niederauer.  “I love being exposed to those businesses, but we have to
be realistic,” he said. This year is “going to be ‘steady as
she goes’ at best.”  NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Boerse had planned to merge and
create the world’s largest exchange operator. The European
Commission blocked the transaction on Feb. 1. A completed deal
with Deutsche Boerse would have allowed NYSE Euronext to
“scale” its derivatives business into asset classes the
company is currently less exposed to, Niederauer said. Deutsche
Boerse’s takeover would put more than 90 percent of the European
exchange-traded  derivatives market  in the hands of one company.  “I’m glad we tried,” Niederauer said of the failed merger
bid in the interview today. “We quickly shift gears.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 