-- Obama Tells Governors Education Key to Future U.S. Growth
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-02-27T20:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/obama-tells-governors-that-education-is-vital-to-ensuring-economic-growth.html
President  Barack Obama  urged the
nation’s governors to avoid cutting resources for public
 education  as they look for ways to trim budgets, saying future
U.S. economic growth depends on a skilled workforce.  Addressing the National Governors Association at the White
House, Obama said today that both parties must get “past the
old dogmas” about education to keep the U.S. competitive.  “Too many states are making cuts to education that I
believe are simply too big,” Obama told the association, which
is holding its annual conference in  Washington . “We don’t have
to choose between resources and reform; we need resources and
reform.”  The White House released a report showing that 41 of the 50
states reduced spending for colleges, universities and community
colleges, with  New Hampshire (BEESNH)  making the deepest cut at 41
percent, followed by  Arizona  for a 25 percent cut and  Wisconsin 
at a 21 percent reduction.  Rhode Island (BEESRI)  was one of nine states
to increase spending, up 13 percent, according to a study by
Grapevine Annual Compilation on State Fiscal Support for Higher
Education.  A majority of states, 28, also reduced funding for
elementary and secondary education, the administration said,
citing a report by the Center on Budget Policy and Priorities,
based in Washington.  Budget Priorities  “Nothing more clearly signals what you value as a state as
the decisions you make about where to invest,” Obama told
governors. “Budgets are about choices, so today I’m calling on
you to choose to invest more in teachers, invest more in
education, and invest more in our children and their future.”  He also urged governors to follow the lead of 21 states
that require students to remain in high school until they
graduate or turn 18.  As the recovery is gaining steam and U.S. manufacturers are
adding jobs, Obama said states must ensure that all their
residents have the skills and education they need to keep the
country competitive.  Over the weekend, Republican presidential candidate  Rick Santorum  called Obama a “snob” because “he wants everybody in
America to go to college.”  Education Debate  “I think because there are a lot of people in this country
that have no desire or no aspiration to go to college because
they have a different set of skills and desires and dreams that
don’t include college,” Santorum, a former senator from
 Pennsylvania  said on ABC’s “This Week” program yesterday. He
also said colleges force a “political-correct left doctrine”
on students.  Without making reference to Santorum, Obama told the
governors that “I have to make a point here.”  He said he wasn’t referring only to a four-year degree when
talking about higher education. Obama said his call includes
community college training for  manufacturing  jobs that
increasingly require more than a high school education.  “We all want Americans getting those jobs of the future,”
he said.  The association’s meeting is being held against a backdrop
of election-year politics focused on the economy. The  jobless
rate  has fallen in 46 of the 50 states in December compared with
a year ago, Labor Department figures show. Only in  Illinois (USUSILL) ,
 Hawaii (USUSHA) ,  North Carolina (USUSNC)  and  Mississippi (USUSMISS)  have rates worsened in
the past year.  The accelerating recovery has improved fiscal outlooks for
states. For the past four years, U.S. states struggled to close
more than $500 billion of budget shortfalls caused by the
longest recession since the 1930s.  “I get a sense that most governors are feeling a little
bit better,” Governor Dave Heineman, the Nebraska Republican
who is chairman of the  National Governors Association , said as
he opened the group’s meeting Feb. 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  