-- Oi to Resume Investments as Holders Approve Restructuring
-- B y   T a í s   F u o c o
-- 2012-02-27T19:41:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/oi-group-shareholders-approve-restructuring-plan-1-.html
Tele Norte Leste Participacoes SA (TNLP3) 
plans to resume investments and establish a new dividend policy
after shareholders today approved a plan to simplify the
structure of  Brazil ’s second-largest telecommunications company
by revenue.  Telemar Norte Leste SA,  Brasil Telecom SA (BRTO4)  and Tele Norte
Leste shareholders submitted their votes in separate meetings
this morning in a fourth attempt to alter the structure of the
group, which operates under the Oi brand. Minority shareholders
had vetoed the three previous proposals.  Brazil’s securities regulator, known as CVM, this time
rejected all 10 complaints registered by minority investors and
allowed controlling shareholders to vote.  “It is positive for the group, as it simplifies the
structure,”  Fator SA Corretora de Valores analyst Jacqueline Lison, said in a telephone interview. “Now the company can
focus on the operational performance.” Fator has a “maintain”
recommendation on Tele Norte Leste and Telemar Norte Leste
shares.  The company, which will be called Oi SA after the
restructuring, will announce its new investment plan and its new
dividend policy on April 17, at the Oi Investors Day, Chief
Executive Officer Francisco Valim said in a conference call with
journalists today.  As a result of the restructuring, the three public
companies, which currently have seven classes of shares, will be
replaced by a single company with two types of shares, traded on
the BM&FBovespa SA exchange in  Sao Paulo  and the New York Stock
Exchange.  Oi expects the restructuring to generate 100 million reais
($58.6 million) of savings per year, Chief Financial Officer
Alex Zornig said in the call.  Telemar Norte Leste SA (TMAR5) ’s shares fell 1.1 percent to 41.72
reais at trading in Sao Paulo, while  Tele Norte Leste
Participacoes SA (TNLP4)  rose 2 percent to 18.02 reais. Brasil Telecom
SA rose 2.7 percent to 11.27 reais.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tais Fuoco in Sao Paulo at 
 tfuoco1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at   hmarinho@bloomberg.net ; 