-- Oil-Tanker Returns Slide for Third Day as Ship Surplus Persists
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2012-02-27T17:29:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/oil-tanker-returns-slide-for-third-day-as-ship-surplus-persists.html
Returns for the largest  oil tankers 
hauling Middle East crude to  Asia  fell for a third session as a
surplus of ships persisted and fuel prices rose.  Daily income  for very large crude carriers on the benchmark
Saudi Arabia-to-Japan route slid 1.6 percent to $13,929,
according to figures from the London-based Baltic Exchange
today. That pared the gain from the start of the year to 13
percent. Each VLCC can hold 2 million barrels of oil.  The number of ships available to load cargoes in the
 Persian Gulf  over the next four weeks was unchanged, according
to Kevin Sy, a Singapore-based freight-derivatives broker at
Marex Spectron Group.  Fuel (BUNKI380)  prices, vessel owners’ main expense,
are at the highest level since at least October 2008, figures
collected by Bloomberg from 25 ports worldwide show.  “Despite more action at the end of the week, there were
also more ships added to the 4-week list, hence the unchanged
count,” Sy said in a report. There are 22 tankers available
until March 10 and 37 more until March 20, it showed.  The exchange’s assessments of shipowners’ earnings don’t
reflect  speed  cuts aimed at reducing fuel costs. Owners can curb
those expenses, boosting returns, by slowing ships on return
journeys after unloading cargoes. Fuel prices rose for an eighth
session in a row today to $728.34 a metric ton.  Hire costs  for VLCCs on the benchmark voyage gained 0.5
percent to 53.41 industry-standard Worldscale points, according
to the exchange. That was the biggest advance since Feb. 16, the
data showed.  Worldscale points are a percentage of a nominal rate, or
flat rate, for more than 320,000 specific routes. Flat rates for
every voyage, quoted in U.S. dollars a ton, are revised annually
by the Worldscale Association in London to reflect changing fuel
costs, port tariffs and exchange rates.  The Baltic Dirty Tanker Index, a broader measure of oil-
shipping costs that includes vessels smaller than VLCCs,
declined 0.3 percent to 796, the lowest level since Feb. 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in  London  at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  