-- Oil Drops a Second Day on Concern Prices Near 9-Month High May Curb Demand
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-02-28T08:02:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/oil-drops-a-second-day-in-new-york-after-ending-seven-day-winning-streak.html
Oil dropped for a second day in  New
York  on speculation rising U.S. stockpiles signal easing fuel
demand as crude trades near the highest price in nine months.  West Texas Intermediate futures slid as much as 0.7 percent
after falling for the first time in eight days yesterday. U.S.
supplies probably rose 1.1 million barrels last week, a
Bloomberg News survey showed before a report from the Energy
Department tomorrow. Consumer demand for oil may deteriorate
after prices for London-traded  Brent crude  breached a record
high in euros and pounds, according to Morgan Stanley.  “U.S. demand is particularly weak,”  Michael McCarthy , a
chief market strategist at CMC Markets Asia Pacific Pty, said by
telephone today from Sydney. “West Texas and Brent contracts
hit technical levels and so we saw some pullback. There’s also
concerns broadly in the market that  oil prices  at these levels
will lead to demand destruction.”  Oil for April delivery fell as much 72 cents to $107.84 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
and was at $108.46 a barrel at 4 p.m. Singapore time. The
contract yesterday slid 1.1 percent to $108.56, snapping the
longest winning streak since January 2010. Prices rose 6.3
percent last week to the highest since May 3 and are up 12
percent in the past year.  Brent oil for April settlement declined 32 cents, or 0.3
percent, to $123.85 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark contract’s  premium  to
New York-traded West Texas Intermediate was at $15.39. It
reached a record of $27.88 on Oct. 14.  Relative Strength  New York crude has fallen since Feb. 24, when the 14-day
relative strength index for front-month contracts climbed to
76.9, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A reading above
70 indicates futures have risen too quickly and further gains
probably aren’t sustainable. Today’s 14-day RSI was at about 70.  Brent, the benchmark for more than half the world’s crude,
is also approaching an all-time high in Indian rupees and
Brazilian reals. There may be no demand growth for oil this year
as prices at current levels curb use in economies that are
already slowing,  Hussein Allidina , head of commodities research
at Morgan Stanley in New York, said in a telephone interview
yesterday.  U.S. crude inventories probably rose for a fifth week in
six and climbed to the highest level in five months in the
period ended Feb. 24, according to the median of eight analyst
estimates in the Bloomberg News survey. Gasoline stockpiles
probably increased  250,000 barrels  while distillate supplies, a
category that includes diesel and heating oil, may have declined
500,000 barrels, the survey showed.  The industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  will
release its inventory data today. The API collects stockpile
information on a voluntary basis from operators of refineries,
bulk terminals and pipelines. The government requires that
reports be filed with the DOE for its weekly survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  