-- Molycorp Directors, Majority Shareholders Sued Over Stock ‘Price Bubble’
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-02-27T17:44:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/molycorp-directors-majority-shareholders-sued-over-stock-price-bubble-.html
Molycorp Inc. (MCP) ’s board was sued on
the company’s behalf over claims that it misled investors about
the rare-earth market, creating a “price bubble” for the
shares.  Molycorp’s directors and its controlling shareholders
Resource Capital Funds and Pegasus Capital Advisors devised a
scheme to temporarily inflate the stock’s value and then profit
by dumping more than $1 billion of their personal holdings into
the market in February, March and June of last year, according
to the complaint. The lawsuit, which was made public today, was
filed by Arizona resident Ira Gaines, a trustee of Paradise Wire
& Cable Defined Benefit Plan.  Directors falsely implied that  Greenwood Village , Colorado-
based Molycorp could meet increasing worldwide demand of
critical rare earth elements, Gaines said in the complaint.
Directors also omitted that mining experts predict the light
rare earth elements the company may be able to produce this year
will be in oversupply in the next several years, fetching lower
prices, according to the complaint.  Company insiders, including current board members and a
controlling group of shareholders, netted $1.6 billion in
secondary offerings, months before concerns arose about declines
in rare-earth prices and delays in construction at the company’s
Mountain Pass mine, Gaines said in the complaint.  13 Percent Stake  The share sales and the company’s subsequent agreement to
sell a 13 percent stake to  Molibdenos & Metales SA (MOLYMET)  has diluted
legacy shareholders, Gaines said. He is seeking to recover
damages on behalf of the company for breach of fiduciary duty,
corporate waste and unjust enrichment, according to the
complaint.  Jim Sims, a spokesman for Molycorp, declined to comment
immediately when reached by phone.  Ross Bhappu, a partner for Denver-based Resource Capital
and Molycorp’s chairman, didn’t immediately return a phone call
seeking comment on the lawsuit. Officials at Pegasus didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  The case is Gaines v. Mark A. Smith, CA7282, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  