-- Olympus Nominates New Board With Chairman Linked to Creditor
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-02-27T08:17:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/olympus-nominates-new-board-after-cover-up.html
Olympus Corp. (7733)  proposed an 11-member
board to replace President Shuichi Takayama and other  directors 
following the Japanese camera maker’s admission of a 13-year
cover-up of investment losses.  Hiroyuki Sasa, 56, head of marketing at the medical systems
unit that is now Olympus’s biggest earner, was nominated as
president, the Tokyo-based company said in a statement today.
Shareholders will vote in April on the nominees, who include
Yasuyuki Kimoto, a former executive at main creditor  Sumitomo
Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) , as chairman.  Overseas investors including Southeastern Asset Management
Inc. and Harris Associates LP have criticized the role of
current executives in proposing a new board, saying there needs
to be a clean sweep of management to restore confidence. An
outside panel in December reported a culture of “yes men” at
Olympus that failed to stop senior executives funneling money
through offshore vehicles to hide the losses.  “A new management drawn from internal officials and a
former banker wouldn’t look likely to ring significant changes
at Olympus,” Yoshikazu Higurashi, an  analyst  at Deutsche Bank
AG in Tokyo, said before the announcement.  Shareholders are scheduled to vote on the new board April
20. While  Memphis , Tennessee-based Southeastern, with a reported
 holding  of 5.1 percent of Olympus stock, and Chicago-based
Harris, which holds about 4 percent according to filings, may
oppose the proposed board, no alternative candidates have
emerged as yet.  Criminal Probe  Former Olympus Chief Executive Officer  Michael Woodford 
dropped his plan to put forward a new slate of candidates and
fight for control of the company in a proxy battle. Woodford’s
public questioning of past acquisitions after he was fired in
October forced Olympus to admit to a $1.7 billion accounting
fraud, prompted a criminal probe of the company and led to the
dismissal of senior management implicated in the cover-up.  Olympus slid 3.3 percent today to 1,373 yen, narrowing its
gain this year to 36 percent. The stock has  plunged  45 percent
since the Oct. 14 dismissal of Woodford, its first non-Japanese
president.  Hideaki Fujizuka, a former executive at Mitsubishi UFJ
Financial group Inc.’s banking unit, another creditor of
Olympus, was nominated as a director.  The proposed board comprises three Olympus officials: Sasa,
nominated as president, Shigeo Hayashi, president of the
company’s unit in Nagano prefecture and Yasuo Takeuchi, a
manager at the corporate center. That compares with eight
internal directors at the current 11-member board.  Outside Directors  Former bankers Kimoto and Fujizuka were nominated to be
internal directors.  Olympus is also inviting six outside directors including
 Asahi Kasei Corp. (3407)  adviser Shiro Hiruta, 70, former chairman of
 Kao Corp. (4452) , Takuya Goto, 71, a former Merrill Lynch banker Hikari Imai, and former president for Louis Vuitton Japan, Kiyotaka Fujii.  President Takayama and all other board members offered
today to step down as of April 20, according to the statement.  The camera maker and world’s biggest endoscope manufacturer
is facing shareholder lawsuits and may be subject to further
criminal investigation after admitting to covering up investment
losses from the 1990s. The company restated past securities
reports and took a $1.3 billion reduction in net assets in
December.  Three former executives at Olympus including ex-chairman
Tsuyoshi Kikukawa, and four others were arrested Feb. 16 for
suspected violation of  Japan ’s Financial Instruments and
Exchange Act.  Offices Raided  Olympus’s Tokyo headquarters and its affiliated offices
were raided in December by prosecutors after the company said
Kikukawa and two others colluded to hide the investment losses.  Olympus sued 19 current and former executives, including
current President Takayama and five corporate auditors, in
January over their roles in concealing losses. The company
formed panels to reform management and nominate a new board.  Founded in 1919 as a microscope and thermometer business,
Olympus produced its first camera in 1936 and a predecessor to
the modern-day endoscope in 1950, according to its  website .
Olympus now controls 75 percent of the global market for
endoscopes, instruments doctors use to look inside the body’s
cavities to help detect disease.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in  Tokyo  at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  