-- Hong Kong’s Tang, Leung Vow to Boost Land Supply in City in Leader Race
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-02-27T02:47:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/hong-kong-s-tang-leung-vow-to-boost-land-supply-in-city-in-leader-race.html
Henry Tang  and Leung Chun-ying, the
front-runners in the race to be  Hong Kong ’s next leader,
promised to ease a housing shortage by increasing land supply
near mainland  China  should they get elected.  The two men, who between them have secured nomination from
more than half of the 1,200-member election committee, will also
consider reclaiming land at the city’s Victoria harbor,
according to replies to questions posed to them by the  South
China Morning Post  published today.  “Large areas in the New Territories are under-developed,”
Leung, 57, wrote, adding that he would set up a committee to
assess housing demand, prepare a list of land for sale and
restart reclamations.  Property prices  have surged 66 percent since the start of
2009 because of inadequate land sales by the government, low
 interest rates  and investment demand from China. Tang and Leng
have won nominations from the chairmen at Hong Kong’s four
biggest developers by market value, who are on the election
committee that will pick the city’s next leader on March 25.  Tang, a former chief secretary, has 378 nominations from
the committee, which comprise of executives, professionals and
lawmakers. Leung, a former government adviser, has got 293
nominations, according to papers filed by the candidates.  Basement Headlines  The election campaign in the past two weeks has been
dominated by public calls for Tang to quit after he admitted
knowledge of a basement built illegally by his wife. Photographs
of the property’s swimming pool show skylights in the bottom
that let light into the basement, which is twice the size of
more than 90 percent of private homes in the city, according to
government data.  The 209-square-meter (2,250-square-foot) basement contained
a wine cellar, gym, and movie theater, according to newspapers
including  Apple Daily  and South China Morning Post.  Albert Ho, a lawmaker who has secured 183 nominations,
advocated a relaxation on the height of buildings and land usage
for new development, and reusing industrial buildings to ease a
housing shortage, according to his reply to the newspaper.
Regina Ip, the city’s former security chief who wants to enter the
contest, suggested asking China to grant Hong Kong more land.  The four candidates were also asked their views on
schooling, pollution, the use of Hong Kong’s fiscal reserves and
their plan to advance universal suffrage. China has pledged that
this will be the last time Hong Kong picks its leader by
committee, with a move toward universal suffrage by 2017.  Leung and Ho said the city should adopt guidelines by the
 World Health Organization  on pollution standards, which Tang
objected to. Leung, Tang and Ho advocated using some of the
city’s fiscal reserves to provide more social services and
investments and narrow its wealth gap. Ip said Hong Kong should
set up a sovereign wealth fund.  Tang is backed by  Li Ka-shing , the chairman of Cheung Kong
Holdings Ltd.,  Thomas Kwok , co-chairman of Sun Hung Kai
Properties Ltd. and Lee Shau Kee, chairman of Henderson
Land Development Co.  Among Leung’s supporters is Hang Lung
Properties Ltd. Chairman Ronnie Chan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  