-- Monsanto Wins Dismissal of Organic Growers’ Gene-Patent Suit
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-02-27T21:52:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/monsanto-wins-dismissal-of-organic-growers-gene-patent-suit.html
Monsanto Co. (MON) , the world’s largest
seed company, won the dismissal of a lawsuit by growers of
organic crops seeking to have its patents for genetically
altered seeds invalidated.  U.S. District Judge Naomi Reice Buchwald in  Manhattan  threw
out the organic growers’ lawsuit in a ruling dated Feb. 24,
saying it represented no controversy and that she had no
jurisdiction over the suit.  Organic farmers, seed companies and food safety groups sued
St. Louis-based Monsanto in March 2011 seeking court protection
against possible lawsuits by the company for patent infringement
if genetically modified crops were mistakenly found among their
yields.  “There is no evidence that plaintiffs are infringing
defendants’ patents, nor have plaintiffs suggested when, if
ever, such infringement will occur,” Buchwald wrote in her
opinion.  The growers, claiming that Monsanto “aggressively
asserted” its patent claims against hundreds of U.S. farmers,
sought a ruling from Buchwald that the patents for genetically
engineered seeds are invalid because they are “injurious.”  They claimed transgenic seeds might contaminate their
crops and that they don’t want to have to fight Monsanto patent
claims should that occur. The company has pursued “baseless
litigation to intimidate farmers and restrict competition with
its transgenic seed,” according to the growers’ complaint.  ‘Gravely Disappointing’  “Her decision to deny farmers the right to seek legal
protection from one of the world’s foremost patent bullies is
gravely disappointing,” Daniel Ravicher, a lawyer for the
plaintiffs, said in an e-mail. “Her belief that farmers are
acting unreasonable when they stop growing certain crops to
avoid being sued by Monsanto for patent infringement should
their crops become contaminated maligns the intelligence and
integrity of those farmers.”  Ravicher said the plaintiffs will appeal.  “The ruling makes it clear that there was neither a
history of behavior nor a reasonable likelihood that Monsanto
would pursue patent infringement matters against farmers who
have no interest in using the company’s patented seed
products,” David Snively, Monsanto’s general counsel, said in a
statement.  Monsanto makes transgenic seeds by introducing the genetic
code of one species into the DNA of another. Its transgenic seed
for soybeans, called  Roundup Ready , prevents the plants from
being killed by an herbicide that it also sells.  30 Million Acres  The company said in January that it expects to have its
transgenic soybean product in 27 million to 30 million acres
this fiscal year, an increase of more than 10 million acres from
the previous year. Sales from seeds and genomics rose 13 percent
to $8.58 billion in the fiscal year that ended in August,
Monsanto reported in October.  The growers and seed companies contended that the
transgenic seeds may damage the value of organic crops, trigger
the evolution of herbicide-resistant superweeds and cost farmers
their organic certification if traces of genetically modified
crops are found in their yields. They also cited studies
purportedly showing that transgenic seeds may harm human health.  Monsanto said its transgenics reduce costs, cut soil
erosion and conserve soil moisture in dry climates. It also said
it has committed not to take legal action against farmers whose
crops may have “inadvertent traces” of transgenic seeds.  ‘Win for Farmers’  “This decision is a win for all farmers as it underscores
that agricultural practices such as ag biotechnology, organic
and conventional systems do and will continue to coexist in the
agricultural marketplace,” Snively said in the statement.  The lawsuit was brought by 36 agricultural and food safety
organizations, 14 seed businesses and 33 farms and farmers
across the U.S., according to an amended complaint filed in
June. They include the  Cornucopia Institute , Fedco Seeds Inc.,
Mendocino Organic Network and the Maine Organic Farmers and
Gardeners Association.  Monsanto fell 68 cents to $78.84 at 4:15 p.m. in  New York 
Stock Exchange  composite trading . The shares have risen
13 percent this year.  The case is Organic Seed Growers & Trade Association v.
Monsanto Co., 11-02163, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York
at   djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 