-- Los Angeles Dodgers Send Bidders to Baseball Owner Committee for Approval
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-02-27T18:20:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/los-angeles-dodgers-send-bidders-to-baseball-owner-committee-for-approval.html
The  Los Angeles Dodgers  finished
reviewing a second round of offers for the professional baseball
team and submitted the remaining bidders to Major League
Baseball officials for approval.  The team’s financial adviser, Blackstone Advisory Partners
LP, notified the suitors who made the cut that their Feb. 23
offers will be sent to the MLB Ownership Committee.  Owner  Frank McCourt  agreed to sell the bankrupt team after
winning concessions from MLB that included advanced approval of
potential buyers and the appointment of a retired federal judge
to mediate disputes about the sale.  The team “is pleased with the momentum that continues to
be generated in the sales process and is confident that the
sales process will maximize the value of the debtors’ estate,”
the Dodgers said today in an e-mailed statement. The team has
not made public any of the bidders’ names.  The Dodgers may sell for $1 billion or more, the team said
in a court filing last year. The sale is required to be
completed by the end of April.  The process approved by the judge overseeing the team’s
bankruptcy, reduces the influence baseball Commissioner  Bud Selig  can wield over the sale by requiring mediation for
disputes and by requiring pre-approval for bidders.  Under a normal sale process, a team owner finds a potential
purchaser, and afterward asks MLB to approve the buyer, the
price and the terms. Details governing the approval are normally
kept secret, even from the buyer.  With the Dodgers, MLB will, for the first time, let bidders
know some details about how it will approve or reject them,
according to court documents.  The case is In re Los Angeles Dodgers LLC, 11-12010,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  