-- Osborne Won’t Borrow to Finance U.K. Budget
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-02-27T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/osborne-says-extra-borrowing-won-t-finance-u-k-budget-tax-cuts.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said he won’t borrow money to fund tax cuts or increase
spending in the 2012 budget, paving the way for increased
political tension among members of the coalition government.  Figures showing the U.K. budget deficit may be less than
expected have prompted calls from Liberal Democrat coalition
partners for an increase in the threshold at which workers start
paying income tax, while lawmakers in Osborne’s own  Conservative
Party  want tax cuts on fuel, according to press reports. Osborne
said any giveaways in the March 21 budget will be offset by
higher taxes or spending cuts in other areas.  “I have a deficit plan and I am intending to stick to
it,” Osborne said in an interview in Mexico City. “If there
were to be any additional spending commitments or tax cuts they
would have to be paid for. We would have to find countervailing
measures to pay for them. I don’t think I am going to go in for
deficit-financed tax reductions or spending increases.”  Osborne said this month he will stick to budget cuts that
will see more than 700,000 public-sector jobs axed in the
tightest fiscal squeeze since World War II. He said he’ll
continue with plans to erase the bulk of a  budget deficit  that
equals 9 percent of gross domestic product by 2017, after
Moody’s Investors Service said Feb. 14 that Britain may lose its
Aaa credit rating.  The budget  deficit  for the first 10 months of the fiscal
year was 93.5 billion pounds compared with a 109.1 billion
deficit a year earlier, government figures for January showed
last week. That would give Osborne leeway to cut taxes or
increase public spending without breaching his 127 billion-pound
deficit target for 2012, according to  Chris Williamson , an
economist at Markit in  London .  Reduced Pension Relief  Osborne is considering proposals to reduce higher earners’
tax relief on pensions in order to help fund a plan to raise the
country’s income-tax threshold to 10,000 pounds ($15,714), the
Financial Times reported on Feb. 14, citing an unidentified
person close to the chancellor. The Independent said yesterday
that Osborne may increase that threshold to 9,000 pounds by the
fiscal year starting April 2013 from 7,475 in the current year,
costing the Treasury 4.6 billion pounds.  Osborne and Prime Minister  David Cameron  have been
discussing the plans with Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  and
Treasury Chief Secretary  Danny Alexander , the FT said. The
current system offers tax relief on money paid into pension
plans to a maximum of 50,000 pounds.  Fuel Taxes  Meanwhile, the FT said Feb. 25 Osborne will rule out any
further fuel tax cuts in next month’s budget after providing
more than 4 billion pounds of support, according to unidentified
aides.  Osborne rejected comments from former Defence Secretary
 Liam Fox  who said the Liberal Democrats were having a
disproportionately large say in policy relative to the amount of
seats they have in parliament.  “We have a coalition, we have a coalition agreement,”
Osborne said. “We are implementing the coalition agreement and
that is the basis upon which this government is formed and that
is the basis upon which the people in the cabinet operate.”  A neutral budget will do little to fend off attacks from
the opposition  Labour Party , which wants to see a larger deficit
used to fund a tax cut. The Moody’s warning triggered an attack
from Labour, which said the pace of budget cuts is hurting
confidence in an economy struggling to avoid a second recession
in three years. Osborne says his approach has helped to maintain
the top debt rating -- a keystone of government policy -- pushed
gilt yields lower and given room for the central bank to loosen
monetary policy.  Giving and Taking  “People will be on the lookout for the Chancellor giving
with one hand and taking away with the other,” Rachel Reeves, a
Labour Party lawmaker who speaks on Treasury affairs, said in an
e-mailed statement from her office. “Labour is calling for
substantial and fair tax cuts.”  Moody’s said Osborne needs to stick to his plan to maintain
investor confidence. Even then, the U.K. will be vulnerable to
shocks given the limited room for a policy response.  Moody’s warning, which carries a one-in-three chance of an
outright downgrade, comes less than three months after the debt
crisis led Osborne’s fiscal watchdog to cut its growth forecasts
and predict the budget deficit through March 2016 will be 112
billion pounds ($178 billion) higher than it previously thought.  The National Institute of Economic and Social Research
forecasts the U.K. economy will shrink 0.1 percent this year and
grow 2.3 percent in 2013, compared with projections in October
for growth of 0.8 percent and 2.6 percent.  Separately, Osborne said a plan to provide cheap loans for
small companies -- which he has described as “credit easing” -
- will go ahead by the budget even though some banks including
HSBC Holdings Plc may not sign up to the program.  “I am pretty happy with the way it is coming together and
with the participation, and obviously it has an additional
benefit to banks who have a higher funding cost,” he said.
“There is going to be a broad participation and, ultimately,
it’s up to individual banks whether they take part or not. I
can’t force anyone to take part.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in Mexico City at  gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  