-- OSX Said to Plan as Much as $500 Million of Secured Bonds
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-02-27T21:53:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/osx-said-to-plan-as-much-as-500-million-of-secured-bonds-2-.html
OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3) , the oil-platform
builder controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista , plans to sell as
much as $500 million in three-year secured bonds next month, two
people familiar with the deal said.  OSX expects to pay a coupon of 8.5 percent to 9.5 percent,
the people said, declining to be named because the deal isn’t
public yet. Proceeds will be used to finance the construction of
Rio de Janeiro-based OSX’s third floating oil-production
platform, they said.  The bond sale follows the start of oil output at Batista’s
 OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3)  in January. OSX delivered
its first unit to OGX last year and plans to supply at least a
further $4.1 billion worth of equipment before the end of 2013,
according to data on its website.  OSX will probably find enough buyers for the issuance since
there aren’t many bonds with this short-term maturity profile
and investors are looking for Brazilian high-yield securities,
Leonardo Kestelman, managing director at Dinosaur Securities
Inc. in  Sao Paulo , said in an interview today.  “OSX has a captive market as many investors outside  Brazil 
believe in Batista’s projects,” said Kestelman, who manages
$800 million of emerging-market debt.  OSX hired Oslo-based Pareto Securities ASA as global
coordinator for the sale. DNB ASA, Norway’s biggest bank, will
help manage the deal, the people said. The road show for the
bond sale will start on Feb. 29 and the book-building process
will last 10 to 15 days, one of the people said.  An official at OSX, who asked not to be named citing
company policy, declined to comment.  OSX  fell  3.2 percent to 15.51 reais at the close in Sao
Paulo today. The stock has declined 22 percent in the past 12
months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  