-- Motorola Solutions Buys $1.17 Billion of Stock From Icahn
-- B y   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g
-- 2012-02-27T21:18:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/motorola-solutions-buys-1-2-billion-of-stock-from-icahn-as-intrieri-quits.html
Motorola Solutions Inc. (MSI) , which split
in two a year ago following pressure from  Carl Icahn , bought
$1.17 billion of its stock from the billionaire investor and
said his representative on the board is stepping down.  The repurchase, representing about 7 percent of shares
outstanding, is part of a $3 billion buyback program,
Schaumburg, Illinois-based Motorola Solutions said today in a
statement. Vincent J. Intrieri, a director of Icahn Enterprises
G.P. Inc., has agreed to resign from the board.  Icahn pushed Motorola to spin off its mobile-phone unit
after four years of agitating for change. Motorola Solutions had
gained 24 percent since the Jan. 4, 2011 separation before
today, outperforming the 7.5 percent gain in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index. The spun-off business, Motorola Mobility
Holdings Inc., is being bought by Google Inc. for $12.5 billion.  The accelerated repurchasing by Motorola Solutions
“represents a huge vote of confidence by management,”  Peter Misek , an analyst at Jefferies & Co. who recommends buying the
shares, said in a note to investors.  Motorola Solutions purchased 23.7 million of its common
stock at $49.15 a share from Icahn and some of his affiliates.
As of Jan. 1, Icahn Associates Corp. owned 38.3 million shares
of Motorola Solutions, the largest stockholder in the company,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. With 14.6 million
shares left, Icahn’s stake was cut to about 4.6 percent,
according to the data.  Shares (MSI)  of the maker of radio equipment for emergency
workers and scanning devices for retailers rose 1.5 percent to
$50.15 at the close in New York.  Misek said today’s transaction, coupled with potential
federal grant money from the payroll tax extension legislation,
may increase his 2013 earnings estimate to $3.99 a share from
$3.69.  Icahn built his reputation as a corporate raider in the
1980s targeting companies such as Phillips Petroleum Co., Texaco
Inc. and Trans World Airlines Inc. He recently sparred with
management at Time Warner Inc. and Clorox Co. He often spends
years holding stocks as he waits for investments to pay off.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Perlberg in  New York  at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  