-- Houlihan Lokey Hires Winningham to Expand Corporate Finance Team
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2012-02-27T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/houlihan-lokey-hires-winningham-to-expand-corporate-finance-team.html
Houlihan Lokey , a closely held
investment bank, hired Stephen Winningham from Lloyds Banking
Group Plc as it plans to expand the corporate finance team in
Europe.  Winningham joined the firm’s London office as co-head of
European Corporate Finance, reporting to Scott Adelson and
Robert Hotz, global co-heads of the business, New York-based
Hotz said in a telephone interview. Winningham will work
alongside Brian McKay to expand Houlihan’s merger and
acquisition activities as well as financing advisory business.  Last month the Los Angeles-based firm hired Steven Tishman
from Rothschild Inc. to head its global mergers and acquisitions
group in  New York . Houlihan Lokey, founded 40 years ago, is
expanding outside of the U.S. to meet growing demand for its
advisory services relating to acquisitions and financial
restructurings, Hotz said.  “Our goal is to have over 100 professionals in  Europe  in
the near term, with a significant increase in the corporate
finance team,” Hotz said. “We are also planning to establish a
new office in  Madrid  to meet growing demand for our services,
including in particular debt restructuring advisory.”  The firm currently has about 75 bankers in Europe,
according to Hotz. Winningham was most recently head of major
corporates at Lloyds Banking Group, managing coverage of U.K.
and U.S. investment-grade companies. Before that, he headed
Lloyds’ financial institutions business  Companies worldwide have announced $141.5 billion of cross-
border acquisitions this year, led by the merger between
Glencore International Plc, the world’s largest publicly traded
commodities supplier, and Xstrata Plc. That’s the highest since
2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  European Expansion  Houlihan Lokey also plans additional hires in Europe to
increase its coverage in areas such as energy, business
services, consumer food and retail, and industrial-related
sectors, according to Hotz.  “The firm’s revenue from outside of the U.S. has grown
more rapidly than revenues from our core U.S. market over the
last decade, and we expect this trend to continue, with Europe
accounting for a significant portion of the increase,” Hotz
said.  The firm recently enhanced its financial institutions
coverage in Europe by hiring Oliver d’Oelsnitz from WestLB AG as
a managing director to advise financial institutions on asset
valuation, regulatory risk management and balance sheet
management.  “Europe is undergoing significant change and financial
institutions realize they need to pursue additional approaches
to strengthening their balance sheets, including potentially
monetizing certain of their assets,” Hotz said.  Banking Focus  Houlihan Lokey is a financial adviser to the official
committee of unsecured creditors of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. It also acted as a strategic adviser last year to the Bank
of Ireland. In January, Marfin Popular Bank Pcl, the second-
largest lender in Cyprus, said it hired JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Houlihan Lokey to help it raise capital.  Europe’s lenders have pledged to cut more than 950 billion
euros ($1.3 trillion) of assets over the next two years to
reduce the capital they’d otherwise need to hold against them.  Almost all of the money the  European Central Bank  lent to
banks in the euro area ends up on deposit at the Frankfurt-based
central bank. Lenders increased overnight deposits at the ECB to
476 billion euros on Feb. 23, compared with 93.4 billion euros
at the beginning of 2011, ECB data show.  “The amount of cash banks are parking at ECB has jumped
and that shows banks continue to be highly risk-adverse and
remain concerned about the future of the euro and the impact of
the new regulations on the financial system,” said Sandy
Purcell in London, head of Houlihan’s International Financial
Advisory Services business. “Corporate lending is proceeding at
a very slow pace and this trend is likely to continue until the
uncertainties are resolved.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in  London  at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  