-- Pending U.S. Home Resales Show Housing Market Regaining Footing: Economy
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-02-27T16:39:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/pending-sales-of-existing-homes-in-u-s-increase-a-more-than-estimated-2-.html
More Americans than forecast signed
contracts to buy previously owned homes in January, indicating
the industry that sparked the last recession is improving.  The  index  of pending home resales climbed 2 percent after a
1.9 percent decrease the prior month that was smaller than
previously estimated, the National Association of Realtors said
today in Washington. The  median  forecast of 44 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 1 percent advance.  Buyers are returning to the real estate market on the heels
of faster job gains for three straight months, falling  home
prices  and record-low borrowing costs. At the same time,
foreclosures are weighing on property values and construction,
slowing the housing recovery.  “Housing demand has bottomed, and we should see some
gradual improvement in sales,” said Yelena Shulyatyeva, an
economist at BNP Paribas in New York, who projected a 2 percent
gain in pending sales. “The dark side of the story is still the
oversupply and the expected pickup in foreclosures. That’s what
policy makers really need to think about.”  Pending sales were projected to rise after an initially
reported 3.5 percent drop in December, according to the
Bloomberg survey. January estimates ranged from a decrease of
1.7 percent to an increase of 3.3 percent. Compared with a year
earlier, January pending home sales climbed 10.3 percent.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.2 percent to
1,368.03 at 11:34 a.m. in  New York . The yield on the benchmark
10-year Treasury note declined to 1.93 percent from 1.98 percent
late on Feb. 24.  Leading Indicator  Pending home sales are considered a leading indicator
because they track contract signings. Purchases of existing
homes are tabulated when a contract closes, typically a month or
two later, and made up more than 90 percent of the housing
market last year.  Still, lower appraisals and rejected mortgage applications
due to stricter lending standards have resulted in more
breakdowns of deals. In January, 33 percent of Realtors said
they experienced contract failures, up from 9 percent who said
so 12 months earlier, according to the association.  Elsewhere, Italian business confidence unexpectedly fell to
a two-year low in February after the economy entered its fourth
recession since 2001 under the weight of austerity measures to
fight the sovereign debt crisis.  The manufacturing-sentiment index fell to 91.5, the lowest
since November 2009, from 92.1 in January, Rome-based national
statistics institute Istat said today.  South Korea  In  Asia , there are signs of improving sentiment. South
Korean manufacturers’ confidence on the prospects for March rose
to a five-month high, increasing to 84 from 81, a  Bank of Korea 
index showed in  Seoul  today. Sentiment also improved at other
businesses, the report said. Data last week showed  consumer
confidence  at a three-month high.  Existing-home (ETSLTOTL)  sales rose to a 4.57 million annual rate in
January, the group reported last week. While it was the best
showing since May 2010, distressed properties made up the
largest portion of all purchases since April. The median price
fell 2 percent from January 2011.  Two of four regions saw an increase in pending home sales,
today’s report showed. That included a 7.6 percent gain in the
Northeast and a 7.7 percent increase in the South. Pending
purchases dropped in the West and Midwest.  Builders such as  Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL)  and D.R. Horton Inc.
are benefiting from job growth as well as cheaper properties and
record-low  mortgage rates .  Toll ‘Optimistic’  “We’re optimistic,” Doug Yearley, chief executive officer
at Horsham, Pennsylvania-based Toll Brothers, said in a Feb. 22
interview with Bloomberg Television. “We have orders that are
up significantly. We’re seeing deposits up, we’re seeing traffic
up.”  The Realtors group’s measure of whether households earning
the median income are able to buy a median-priced property at
current  interest rates  reached record levels in the final three
months of 2011, recent data showed.  Borrowing costs are also staying low. The average rate on a
 30-year fixed loan  was little changed at 4.09 percent in the
week ended Feb. 17, from 4.08 percent the prior week, according
to the  Mortgage Bankers Association . It averaged 4.05 percent
the week of Feb. 3, its lowest reading in records dating back to
1990.  Labor Market  Faster hiring and reduced job cuts may provide a further
incentive to home purchases. The  unemployment rate  in January
declined to 8.3 percent, the lowest since February 2009, while
the economy generated 243,000 jobs, the most in nine months,
Labor Department data showed on Feb. 3.  New-home purchases declined 0.9 percent in January to a
321,000 annual rate from a 324,000 pace in December that was
stronger than previously reported, the Commerce Department said
on Feb. 24. The median price fell 9.6 percent from the same
month last year.  John C. Williams, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of
 San Francisco , said last week the housing “bust” is weighing
on the economy and monetary stimulus is warranted to boost
growth.  “Housing is a major factor in the deep downturn and
sluggish recovery we’ve experienced in recent years,” Williams
said in a speech in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  