-- Peugeot May Sell 7% Stake to GM in Alliance
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   J a c k i e   S i m m o n s ,   J e f f   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2012-02-28T12:49:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/peugeot-is-said-to-plan-sale-of-7-stake-to-gm-under-development-alliance.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  may announce as
soon as this week plans to sell a stake of about 7 percent in
the French carmaker to  General Motors Co. (GM)  as part of a
development alliance, people familiar with the matter said.  The deal would involve a standstill agreement by which GM
would not take a greater holding in the Paris-based carmaker
without permission, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the talks are private. Peugeot may offer
additional shares through a rights issue as part of the
transaction, the people said.  A GM-Peugeot alliance may include developing engines and
building vehicles together in the region, a person familiar said
last week. GM, the world’s largest carmaker, is looking for ways
to turn around its unprofitable Opel brand, while Peugeot is
seeking to stem a growing debt load. Peugeot and  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  began cooperating on engines for the German
carmaker’s Mini brand in 2002, expanding the partnership with a
100 million-euro hybrid joint venture last year.  “They want to demonstrate that the partnership is a close
one, not simply on individual projects such as those Peugeot has
with BMW, which might one day separate,” said  Juergen Pieper , a
Frankfurt-based analyst at Bankhaus Metzler, who recommends
selling Peugeot stock. “Peugeot’s dream partner, BMW, clearly
wasn’t interested, which is why they have gone to GM. It is an
alliance of necessity.”  Shares Surge  Peugeot  surged  as much as 1.47 euros, or 9.6 percent, to
16.78 euros and was up 5.6 percent to 16.16 euros as of 1:46
p.m. in Paris trading. The stock was the biggest gainer on the
benchmark CAC 40 index and the broader SBF120 index. The shares
have gained 33 percent this year, valuing the French carmaker at
3.78 billion euros ($5.1 billion). GM climbed 39 cents, or 1.5
percent, to $26.46 in  New York  trading yesterday.  Peugeot’s 2011 sales in  Europe  plunged 8.8 percent to 1.68
million vehicles, while GM’s dropped 1.9 percent to 1.17
million. The prospects for a turnaround aren’t improving with
auto demand in the region poised to drop for the fifth straight
year in 2012 as the sovereign debt crisis unsettles consumers.  No final agreement has been reached on the GM-Peugeot
alliance and the size of the stake could change, the people said
late yesterday.  Klaus-Peter Martin, a GM spokesman, declined to comment
yesterday when contacted by Bloomberg News. Jonathan Goodman, a
Peugeot spokesman, also declined to comment.  Political Meddling  Peugeot Chief Executive Officer Philippe Varin said this
month that the company was willing to investigate partnerships
as long as they were in line with the group’s strategy, which
includes expansion outside Europe, and contributes synergies
while maintaining Peugeot’s independence.  Political interference and strong unions have hampered both
companies from shutting factories and laying off workers to rein
in costs. PSA is projected to use just 62 percent of its
European capacity this year, compared with 74 percent at Opel,
according to LMC Automotive in Oxford,  England .  Carmakers risk losses when they use less than 90 percent of
their capacity, according to  Ferdinand Dudenhoeffer , director of
the Center for Automotive Research at the  University of
Duisburg-Essen .  “If the Peugeot-GM hypothetical tie up becomes a reality,
I sincerely hope it deals with the overcapacity issue,” Fiat SpA
CEO  Sergio Marchionne , who estimates excess European auto
capacity at 20 percent, said today in Brussels. “It’s essential
that the European situation will be addressed, whether I address
it or other people address it, I don’t particularly care.”  European Losses  Peugeot, Europe’s second-biggest automaker after Volkswagen
AG, announced plans Feb. 15 to sell 1.5 billion euros in assets
to reduce debt, which widened to 3.4 billion euros as profit and
sales fell.  GM, which this month posted a record annual net income of
$9.19 billion for 2011, is planning more cost cuts for its
unprofitable European unit after the last turnaround plan failed
to end losses there.  The automaker’s Europe business, including the Opel brand,
lost $747 million last year before taxes and interest. While
that’s an improvement from $1.95 billion lost in 2010, GM had
planned to break even in the region until November, when it
pulled back the forecast as the European outlook worsened.  Peugeot, whose origins date back to the early 19th century
laminated steel- and toolmaker Peugeot-Frères et Jacques
Maillard-Salins, is still 30 percent owned by the Peugeot
family, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company’s current chairman, Thierry Peugeot, is the
great-grandson of Eugene, who jointly led the company with his
cousin Armand when it produced its first automobile in 1891.
Thierry is joined on the board by relatives Roland, Robert and
Jean-Philippe Peugeot, and Marie-Helene Roncoroni.  Selling Property  Blackrock Inc. last year became the second-largest investor
with 5 percent, according to a regulatory filing.  Peugeot, whose carmaking division missed a target of
breaking even in 2011, said Feb. 15 it will sell property as
well as a holding in the Gefco trucking unit that has yet to be
determined. The disposals include the Citer vehicle-rental unit
that Peugeot sold to Enterprise Holdings Inc. on Feb. 1 for 440
million euros.  “The history of collaborations in the  auto industry  that
involve equity -- or even if they don’t involve equity -- is
miserable,”  Maryann Keller , a principal of a self-named
consulting firm in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a telephone
interview. “What in the world do you get by buying a tiny stake
of a French company where you could never lay anybody off or
close a factory?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in  London  at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
 Jacqueline Simmons  in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in  Frankfurt  at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at +49-30-70010-6232 or
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  