-- Philippine Peso Drops to One-Month Low on Rate-Cut Speculation
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2012-02-27T08:29:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/philippine-peso-drops-to-one-month-low-on-rate-cut-speculation.html
The Philippine peso fell to a one-
month low on speculation  Europe ’s lingering debt crisis may
prompt the central bank to cut  interest rates  this week to
support growth. Bonds declined.  The currency weakened for a third day after the Group of 20
nations rebuffed Germany-led calls for more aid, telling Europe
to do more to fight the crisis. Crude oil for April delivery
traded at $108.91 a barrel in  New York  and has risen 11 percent
this month.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas  still has scope to
support growth as inflation will remain within target even as
fuel prices rise, Governor Amando Tetangco said on Feb. 22.  “There remains uncertainty on the details, the execution
of resolving the Europe crisis and that’s affecting currencies
including the peso,” said Ricky Cebrero, head of treasury at
 Philippine National Bank  in  Manila . “The central bank will
probably cut the benchmark rate by a quarter point again at this
week’s meeting and then pause given the volatile oil prices.”  The peso closed 0.4 percent lower at 42.978 per dollar,
according to Tullett Prebon Plc. It touched 43.110, the weakest
level since Jan. 25. The yield on the 8 percent July 2031 peso
bond rose 10 basis points, or 0.10 percentage point, to 5.73
percent, data from Tradition Financial Services show.  Bangko Sentral (PPCBON)  cut its overnight borrowing rate to 4.25
percent from 4.5 percent on Jan. 19, the first reduction in more
than two years. The next policy meeting will be on March 1.
Eight of 13  economists predict  the central bank will reduce the
rate to 4 percent, with four expecting it will be left unchanged.
One forecast a half-a-percentage-point cut.  “Our assessment is, under specific stressed oil price
levels, inflation would be elevated but the full-year inflation
average would be within target,” Tetangco said in an e-mail
last week. The central bank did “some scenario building” on
the impact of  oil prices  that it will review at the March 1
policy meeting, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  