-- Pilots Would Need More Experience Under U.S. Proposal
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2012-02-27T22:28:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/pilots-would-need-more-experience-under-proposal.html
(Corrects hours under current rules in seventh paragraph.)  The U.S. government proposed
increasing the required amount of experience and training for
airline pilots to address issues that arose in a fatal crash
three years ago.  Co-pilots would need close to the same qualifications as
captains, with at least three times more flight hours than under
current rules, the  Federal Aviation Administration  said today in
the proposal made public in the Federal Register.  All pilots would have to undergo revamped training designed
to prepare them for hazards that have led to accidents, such as
bad weather or high-altitude maneuvering. The public has 60 days
to comment on the proposal.  “This proposed rule reflects our commitment to the safety
of the traveling public by making sure our pilots are the most
qualified and best trained in the world,” U.S. Transportation
Secretary Ray Lahood said in a written statement.  The proposed changes result from the Feb. 12, 2009, crash
of a regional turboprop plane operated by  Pinnacle Airlines
Corp. (PNCL) ’s Colgan unit that was blamed on pilot errors. The crash,
near Buffalo,  New York , killed all 49 people aboard and one man
on the ground.  Congress in 2010 ordered the FAA to update its requirements
for airline pilots to better prepare them for flying in
difficult conditions, such as icing or an unforeseen emergency.
The  National Transportation Safety Board , which investigates
accidents, issued similar recommendations.  Compromise Over Hours  A co-pilot must have at least 250 hours at the controls
before flying for a U.S. airline under the current rules. The
proposal would require that co-pilots obtain the same license as
captains, known as an Airline Transport Pilot certificate. It
requires at least 1,500 hours experience and specific training
and testing on the aircraft model they fly.  Reflecting a compromise sought by airlines, the proposal
would allow co-pilots to fly with fewer than 1,500 hours when
they have received other education. Pilots who have flown for
the military would need 750 hours, according to the statement.
Those with a college degree in qualified aviation programs would
need 1,000.  Pilots with fewer than 1,500 hours would be prohibited from
becoming captains, according to the release.  An advisory committee made up of representatives of the
airlines, pilot unions and family members of people killed in
the Buffalo crash couldn’t agree in 2010 on the number of hours
flight crews needed.  Families Object  Families of the Buffalo victims and the Coalition of
Airline Pilots Associations, which represents independent pilot
unions at  United Parcel Service (UPS)  Inc. and  Southwest Airlines (LUV)  Co.,
said co-pilots should be required to have 1,500 hours of flight
experience.  Families of the Buffalo victims are “very pleased” with
the proposal, Scott Maurer, whose daughter Lorin, 30, was aboard
the flight, said in a phone interview.  While it didn’t require 1,500 hours of experience for all
pilots as Maurer and others had sought, the proposal added most
of what they wanted, he said.  Industry representatives and the  Air Line Pilots
Association  union, which represents 53,000 pilots in the U.S.
and  Canada , said that flight time by itself was a poor measure
of a pilots’ skills, according to the group’s report. They said
advanced training on aviation issues at a university could be
more valuable than total hours.  The captain on the Colgan flight,  Marvin Renslow ,
overreacted to a cockpit warning and pulled the plane into a
steep climb, which prompted it to gyrate out of control,
according to the NTSB. Renslow had failed several tests of his
piloting skill, the investigation found. Both pilots had more
than 1,500 hours experience.  Congress following the accident ordered the FAA to make
several safety improvements. In response to one of those
mandates, the agency issued rules on Dec. 21 requiring passenger
airline pilots to get more rest.  Congress also ordered the agency to make broader changes in
pilot training and to establish a mentoring program for new
pilots. The FAA hasn’t issued rules in those areas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  