-- Pirates Threaten Ship in Closest Ever Incident to Oil-Rich Hormuz Strait
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2012-02-27T13:49:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/pirates-threaten-container-ship-in-closest-ever-incident-to-hormuz-strait.html
Pirates threatened a ship at the
north end of the  Strait of Hormuz  in the nearest-ever attack to
the waterway, which handles 20 percent of the globally traded
oil, according to the International Maritime Bureau.  Armed private guards aboard the  container  vessel fired
warning shots to deter pirates chasing the ship in three boats
at the northern-most area of the  Gulf of Oman , according to the
bureau’s piracy reporting centre.  The pirate activity, reported on Feb. 25, “is a sign of
concern if they are moving so deep into the Gulf and the Strait
of Hormuz,” Cyrus Mody, a London-based manager at the centre
said today by phone.  The ship identified in the report was the nearest to the
Strait of Hormuz, according to a list of attacks published by
the IMB over the past three years.  The European Union didn’t count the event as an attack
because there was no exchange of gunfire, Timo Lange, press
officer with the Northwood, U.K.-based  EU Naval Force , said
today. EU Navfor declined to name the vessel in line with
military policy.  Iran has threatened to block shipments through the strait
as Western leaders ratcheted up sanctions in an effort to get
the country to halt its nuclear program.  About 35 percent of all crude shipped by sea and a third of
the world’s liquefied natural gas passes through the strait
which connects the  Persian Gulf  with the Gulf of Oman. About 17
million barrels a day transits the Hormuz according to the U.S.
Energy Department, while 70 percent of the U.K’s imports of LNG
come through the strait, according to a Jan. 6 report from
Deutsche Bank AG.  Gulf of Oman  The IMB reported two attacks in the Gulf of Oman this year.
There were 37 attacks in the Gulf of Aden, 160 off Somali waters
and one attack reported off Oman’s coastline in 2011, according
to its annual report.  The IMB didn’t name the threatened container vessel in line
with policy, disclosing only its capacity, of 18,830 deadweight
tons.  There are about 3,500 Somali pirates attacking vessels in
the  Gulf of Aden  and  Indian Ocean , the  United Nations  said on
Feb 16. Attacks rose to a record 237 in 2011, with ransoms worth
$160 million paid to release 31 hijacked vessels, according to a
One Earth Future Foundation report released this month.  Piracy cost the shipping industry and governments $6.9
billion last year, including $2.7 billion in extra fuel to speed
up through the area and $1.27 billion on military operations,
according to the foundation.  Pirates Threaten Container Ship in Closest Ever Attack to Hormuz  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  