-- PTT Exploration Faces ‘High’ Competition for Cove, CEO Says
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j   a n d   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-02-27T07:11:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/ptt-exploration-faces-high-competition-for-cove-ceo-says-1-.html
PTT Exploration & Production Pcl (PTTEP) 
expects to face stiff competition from international rivals to
acquire U.K.-listed  Cove Energy Plc (COV)  after it trumped a bid for
the African explorer by  Royal Dutch Shell Plc. (RDSA)   “The competition is quite high and we are doing our
best,” Chief Executive Officer Anon Sirisaengtaksin said in a
telephone interview today. “Our offer is based on plenty of
studies, including surface evaluation and due diligence, which
showed that Cove’s assets are world class and have high
potential for discovering a large amount of gas.”  Thailand’s only listed oil and gas explorer on Feb. 24
offered 1.1 billion pounds ($1.7 billion) for Cove. The Bangkok-
based company’s proposal of 220 pence for each share was 13
percent more than Shell’s bid. PTT Exploration’s shares fell.  Cove holds 8.5 percent of a block off Mozambique where
 Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  has found as much as 30 trillion cubic
feet of gas. That would be enough to justify production of
liquefied natural gas to supply Asian markets. Cove said in a
separate Feb. 24 statement the sale process for the company will
continue and it reserves the right to reject any approach.  “We think Shell is the Mozambique government’s preferred
bidder and will likely raise its offer to 240 pence” a share,
said Stuart Joyner, an analyst at Investec Securities in  London .  Share Performance  PTT Exploration fell as much as 1.4 percent to 182.5 baht
and traded at 184 baht as of 12:30 p.m. in Bangkok. Cove surged
21 percent to 235 pence in London Feb. 24, indicating investors
are betting on further bids.  On Feb. 22, Shell bid $1.6 billion to buy Cove to gain a
foothold in  Mozambique . Jon French, a London-based spokesman for
Shell, declined to comment Feb. 24 when asked whether the
company would be prepared to raise its offer.  PTT Exploration’s bid values Cove at $4.6 per barrel of oil
equivalent of resource and “is already hot in my view,” said
 Jason Kenney , an analyst at Banco Santander SA in Edinburgh.
“I’d be surprised if a Western oil major would pay above this
level as it looks expensive. Never say never though.”  East Africa’s fields offer a fresh source of gas supply for
 Asia , where China and  India  are the world’s fastest-growing
major economies.  Eni SpA (ENI)  of  Italy ,  BG Group Plc (BG/)  of the U.K. and
Statoil ASA of  Norway  also discovered natural gas off Mozambique
and Tanzania. Statoil’s Executive Vice President for Exploration
Tim Dodson last week declined to say whether Norway’s largest
oil company would be interested in joining the race for Cove.  Cove has been working with  Total SA (FP)  and BG to explore off
the coast of  Kenya . Last year, it joined  Cairn Energy Plc (CNE)  to bid
for exploration licenses off Lebanon.  Standard Chartered Bank is advising Cove, which put itself
up for sale last month. UBS AG is advising PTT Exploration.  The transaction depends on approval from the Mozambique
government. The Thai government supports PTT Exploration’s bid.  PTT Exploration has adequate  cash flow  and can raise funds
to finance the acquisition, Anon said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net ;
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  