-- TransCanada to Construct Cushing to U.S. Gulf Coast Crude-Oil Pipeline
-- B y   M i k e   L e e   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-02-27T21:19:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/transcanada-to-construct-cushing-to-u-s-gulf-coast-stand-alone-pipeline.html
TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  will proceed with
building a $2.3 billion segment of its Keystone XL oil pipeline
from  Oklahoma  to the Texas coast so that it isn’t delayed by
U.S. approval for the rest of the line.  The company, based in Calgary, expects the segment to begin
carrying crude from the Cushing, Oklahoma, storage hub to
refineries on the U.S. Gulf Coast as soon as mid-year 2013,
according to a statement today. TransCanada is separating the
Cushing line from its application to President  Barack Obama  for
approval of a Keystone expansion that will bring crude into the
U.S. from Canada’s oil sands.  “We remain committed to building this overall project in a
timely and efficient manner and to meet demand of shippers,”
said TransCanada Chief Executive Officer Russ Girling in an
interview today. Shippers are making multi billion dollar
commitments spanning decades and “they haven’t wavered from
Keystone,” he said.  As originally envisioned, Keystone XL would have carried as
much as 830,000 barrels of oil a day from  Alberta ,  Canada , and
the Bakken Shale formation in  North Dakota  and  Montana  along a
1,661-mile (2,673-kilometer) path to Texas refineries. The full
$7.6 billion Keystone pipeline needed a permit from the State
Department because it crossed the U.S.-Canada border.  Obama’s Keystone Rejection  Obama rejected Keystone XL in January based on concerns the
pipeline might pollute drinking water resources in  Nebraska .
Obama said a Congressional deadline left him too little time to
consider the revised route through Nebraska that the company
accepted in November.  As a stand-alone project, the Cushing segment will not need
approval from the State Department. The pipeline will help
relieve oversupplies that have accumulated in the U.S. Midwest
because of a lack of pipeline capacity to carry the oil to
refineries on the coast.  Cushing is the delivery point for crude oil traded on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange . A lack of pipeline capacity
between Cushing and the  Gulf Coast , where most refineries are
located, has caused U.S. oil to trade at a discount to imports.  Obama’s administration supports TransCanada’s plan to build
the Oklahoma-to-Texas segment separately.  “Moving oil from the Midwest to the world-class, state-of-
the-art refineries on the Gulf Coast will modernize our
infrastructure, create jobs, and encourage American energy
production,” White House Press Secretary  Jay Carney  said in a
statement today.  ‘Near Future’  TransCanada will apply for a permit “in the near future”
to build the section from the U.S.-Canada border to Steele City,
Nebraska, according to the statement. The company may alter the
route in Nebraska, the company said in the statement.  Proceeding with the  Cushing (CLCO1)  section of the line will allow
TransCanada to realize income from the pipeline before the full
project is built, said Steven Paget, an analyst with FirstEnergy
Capital Corp. in Calgary.  “The Gulf Coast Project will transport growing supplies of
U.S. crude oil to meet refinery demand in  Texas ,” Girling said
in the statement. “Gulf Coast refineries can then access lower-
cost domestic production and avoid paying a premium to foreign
oil producers.”  Environmental groups remain opposed to all sections of the
pipeline because of concerns about the potential environmental
impact of tar-like bitumen known as oil-sands crude.  ‘National Interest’  “Whether in pieces or as a whole, the Keystone XL tar
sands pipeline is not in the national interest,” Susan Casey- Lefkowitz, director of international programs for the New York-
based National Resources Defense Council, wrote in a comment
published on the environmental organization’s website. “Raw
tar-sands oil going from the Midwest to the Gulf for refining
means serious pipeline safety issues for landowners.”  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  and  Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD)  are
preparing to reverse the Seaway pipeline between Cushing and
Houston, which will also help alleviate the glut at Cushing.
Seaway will be able to carry 150,000 barrels by June 1, and will
be expanded to 400,000 barrels by early 2013, the companies have
said.  FirstEnergy’s Paget said there’s room for both pipelines,
since oil production is growing in the U.S. Also, the full
Keystone pipeline will eventually bring much more oil to
Cushing, he said.  “The Seaway line’s contracts are independent of
Keystone,” said Paget, who rates TransCanada’s shares“market
perform” and owns none. “I’m not saying both lines will be
full.”  TransCanada rose 0.9 percent to C$42.39 today in Toronto.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  