-- Sugar May Tumble Below 20 Cents on Surplus, F.O. Licht Says
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2012-02-28T09:46:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/raw-sugar-may-tumble-below-20-cents-on-surplus-f-o-licht-says.html
Raw sugar may drop to less than 20
cents a pound by year-end as global supply exceeds demand for a
second season in 2012-2013, according to F.O. Licht GmbH, which
said that lower prices may spur restocking by importers. The
commodity dropped for the first time in nine days in  New York .  The surplus may counter support that sugar gets from higher
oil prices, according to Christoph Berg, managing director at
the Ratzeburg, Germany-based researcher who’s covered the market
since 1994. Sugar, which hasn’t traded below 20 cents since
September 2010, snapped the best run since November of that year.  Lower prices would cut expenses for users such as soft-
drinks maker  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , which has also predicted global
surpluses, while helping to extend a decline in  world food costs .
Sugar may trade between 20 cents and 25 cents on rising supply
in the Northern Hemisphere and prospects for a good 2012-2013
crop in  Brazil , HSBC Holdings Plc said in a report on Feb. 17.  “We currently see a fair price, possibly some weakness in
the second half,” Berg said in a phone interview before an
industry conference that began in Bangkok today. “We’re talking
more about sugar prices falling to 20 cents, possibly below.”  Raw sugar on ICE Futures U.S. lost 27 percent in 2011, the
biggest drop in a decade, as traders sold the commodity on
anticipation of a second surplus after three shortages. The May-
delivery contract declined as much as 0.7 percent to 25.36 cents
today, dropping from the highest level in more than three months.
The price was at 25.50 cents at 9:43 a.m. in  London .  Olam’s Outlook  Supply may top demand by as much as 7 million tons in 2012-
2013 as Brazil’s crop recovers and output in Thailand and China
climbs, John Stansfield, senior analyst at  Olam International
Ltd. (OLAM) ’s UK unit, said at the conference and in an interview. This
season’s surplus is estimated at 9 million tons, he said today.  “Having surpluses for two consecutive years puts pressure
on prices,” said Stansfield, who’s worked in the industry since
1994. The level of 20 cents would offer strong potential support,
and lower prices would increase consumption, he said.  The surplus may be smaller than the 5.8 million tons this
season,  Stefan Uhlenbrock , senior commodity analyst at F.O.
Licht, said in an interview. The company is compiling data on
the 2012-2013 balance, and declined to provide precise estimates.  While a rally in oil may help to lift sugar in the near
term, the surplus will contain any rise, F.O Licht’s Berg said.
Higher crude  oil prices  can trigger increased production of
ethanol from cane, curbing the production of raw sugar.  Crude oil in New York has gained 9.8 percent this year on
prospects for higher demand as the global economy recovers, and
on concern that supplies from  Iran  may be disrupted. The April-
delivery contract was little changed at $108.51 a barrel.  Brazilian Crop  Output in the biggest sugar producer Brazil may gain next
season on weather conditions and a recovery in cane yields,
Uhlenbrock said. The harvest in number-two grower  India  is
headed for a downturn as millers may be unable to make cane
payments to farmers for this year’s crop, he said.  Demand growth this season may recover to a normal rate of
2.4 percent after three years of stagnant growth as prices have
declined to affordable levels, said Uhlenbrock. That will spur
demand, especially from China, Pakistan and  Africa , he said.  Thailand , the second-largest exporter, is among countries
forecasting higher output. The cane crop may be a record this
season and reach a fresh peak next year as plantings expand, the
Office of the Cane & Sugar Board said yesterday. Exports may be
7.9 million tons in calendar 2012, Secretary-General Prasert Tapaneeyangkul said. That’s 18 percent more than last year.  Global food costs have declined 9.9 percent since reaching
an all-time high in February 2011, according to a 55-item gauge
compiled by the Food & Agriculture Agency, the Rome-based United
Nations group.  The sugar market is set for a “big surplus and lower
prices,” Jacob Robbins, managing director of global sweeteners
at Coca-Cola, said earlier this month. The Atlanta-based company
is the world’s largest maker of soft drinks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  