-- Treasuries Rise After Group of 20, Pushing 10-Year Yields to One-Week Low
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-02-27T22:22:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/treasuries-advance-as-asian-stocks-fall-before-fed-purchases-u-s-debt.html
Treasuries rose, pushing 10-year
note yields to the lowest level in more than a week, after Group
of 20 nations rebuffed German-led calls for financial support to
contain  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis.  Thirty-year bonds advanced for a fourth straight day as
investors sought the relative safety of U.S. debt even as
 Germany ’s lower house of parliament approved a second euro-
region Greek bailout package worth 130 billion euros ($174
billion). The  Federal Reserve  bought $5 billion of Treasury
notes under its program to keep borrowing costs low.  “We’re seeing little sellers in the market today,” said
Jason Rogan, director of U.S. government trading at Guggenheim
Partners LLC, a New York-based brokerage for institutional
investors. “Whenever you think the market will go to higher
yields, something new comes out of Europe.”  Yields on 10-year notes slid five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 1.93 percent at 5:12 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2 percent
securities maturing in February 2022 rose 14/32, or $4.38 per
$1,000 face amount, to 100 21/32.  The 10-year yields touched 1.91 percent, the lowest level
since Feb. 16, dropping below the 50-day moving average for the
first time since that date. The yields have traded as low as
1.79 percent and as high as 2.09 percent this year. Yields on
30-year bonds decreased five basis points to 3.05 percent.  Yield Levels  The next technical level for 10-year note yields should be
1.90 percent to 1.91 percent and then 1.83 percent, said  Chris Ahrens , head interest-rate strategist in  Stamford ,  Connecticut 
at UBS AG, one of the 21 primary dealers that trade directly
with the Fed.  “The bulls are in control in a thinly traded session,”
Ahrens said. “There’s no supply on the schedule until March.
There’s no first-tier economic data.”  In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns to forecast changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index.  The next round of Treasury note and bond supply will be on
three consecutive days beginning March 12, when the government
will sell three-, 10- and 30-year debt. The U.S. will announce
the amounts on March 8. The Treasury sold $99 billion in two-,
five- and seven-year securities last week.  Volume (ICPTVOL)  in the Treasury market has remained below the one-
year average of $275 billion. About $204 billion of Treasuries
changed hands as of 5:01 p.m. through ICAP Plc, the world’s
largest interdealer broker.  Maturity Issues  The difference between the yields on two- and 10-year
notes, charted on the yield curve, dropped today to 1.64
percentage points, the lowest on a closing basis since Feb. 2.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE index, which measures
price swings based on options, fell on Feb. 24 to 77.1,
approaching the lowest level since July 2007. The five-year
average is 112.  G-20 finance ministers and central bank governors said in a
statement issued yesterday after a meeting over the weekend in
Mexico City that consideration of more funding for the
 International Monetary Fund  depends on Europe’s reassessing its
financial backstop against the region’s debt crisis.  “There was some disappointment out of the G-20,” said
 Ian Lyngen , a government bond strategist at CRT Capital Group
LLC in Stamford, Connecticut. “The market holds bullish
potential because we have more buybacks than sales.”  German Vote  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s government pushed through
the measure to stave off a collapse of the  Greek economy  today
amid signs of growing resistance and as one of her Cabinet
ministers said  Greece  should leave the single currency. Euro
leaders will now shift their focus on whether to bolster the
region’s rescue funds as they prepare for a summit in Brussels
on March 1-2.  The Greece bailout agreement has failed to restore
confidence in credit markets, where traders are paying nine
times more to insure European  government bonds  than they are for
Treasuries. While  European stocks  are off to their best start
since 1998, the relative cost of credit-default swaps has risen
to a record, according to CMA.  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe index of default
swaps linked to 15 nations from  Finland  to  Italy  increased nine
basis points in February to 348, up 34 percent since July,
indicating a rising perception of risk. It reached an all-time
high of 385 on Nov. 25. The cost of insuring  U.S. debt  dropped
by more than 40 percent in that period. The ratio between the
two rose to a record 9.81 to 1 on Feb. 23.  S&P Downgrade  Greece had its long-term sovereign credit ratings cut to
selective default from CC by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services,
which cited an action by Greece’s government regarding its
sovereign debt that began a “distressed debt restructuring.”  The downgrade was “pre-announced and all its consequences
have been anticipated, planned for and addressed” by the
European Council and euro area officials, the Greek Finance
Ministry said in an e-mailed statement today.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will give his semi-annual
monetary policy report to House lawmakers on Feb. 29 and the
following day to senators.  “There’s a presumption he’s going to continue to discuss
the situation in a dovish light,” said Ahrens of UBS. The
discussion “favors a move to lower yields.”  ‘Plant the Seeds’  Bernanke may use the speeches to “plant the seeds” for
additional bond buying,  Ward McCarthy  and Thomas Simons, New
York-based economists at the primary dealer Jefferies Group
Inc., wrote in a report on Feb. 24. The Fed will focus its
purchases on mortgage-backed securities, acquiring $500 billion
to $650 billion of them to support the U.S. housing market, the
report said. The central bank will probably also buy long-term
Treasuries, it said.  The Fed is replacing $400 billion of shorter-maturity
Treasuries in its holdings with longer-term debt to cap
borrowing costs under a program it plans to conclude in June. It
bought Treasuries today maturing from May 2018 to February 2020.  The number of Americans signing contracts to buy previously
owned homes rose in January more than forecast.  An index of pending home resales climbed 2 percent after a
1.9 percent decrease in the prior month that was smaller than
previously estimated, the National Association of Realtors said
today in  Washington . The median forecast of 44 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 1 percent rise.  U.S. 10-year yields will rise to 2.49 percent by the end of
this year, according to the average forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey, with the most recent estimates given heavier weighting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  