-- Rehn Says Europe Must Take Preventive Approach in Crisis Fight
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-02-27T00:44:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/rehn-says-europe-must-take-preventive-approach-in-crisis-fight.html
Europe  needs to take a preventive
approach in tackling its sovereign debt crisis and must increase
its defenses to restore investor confidence, European Union
Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said.  With “financial firewalls, it is much better to take a
preventive approach,” Rehn told reporters after a meeting of
finance officials from the 20 biggest economies in Mexico City
today. “Prevention is always better than correction. As we have
a large enough financial firewall, we are much more convincingly
able to contain market turbulence that might occur.”  European leaders will conclude whether the region’s
permanent rescue fund should be increased “in the course of
March,” German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said
yesterday. That’s an “essential” prerequisite for any decision
to increase funds for the  International Monetary Fund , G-20
officials said in a statement.  “I’m confident that we will come to a positive
conclusion,” Rehn said. “There is a convergence in the views
of the G-20 that there is an urgency to reassess global
firewalls.”  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said he’s
“encouraged” by Europe’s progress in containing its debt
crisis. The G-20, at a “successful working meeting,” set a
“clear goal” of deciding on global firewalls by the IMF’s
spring meeting in Washington in April, ECB Executive Board
member Joerg Asmussen told reporters.  “Over the last 48 hours I sensed a more positive
atmosphere among our partners,” Rehn said. “Our actions are
recognized as appropriate and effective.”  Market pressures are easing “particularly for the so-
called vulnerable countries Italy and  Spain ,” Rehn said. At the
same time, Ireland is “on track” in implementing its reform
package and “can expect to return to the markets next year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Mexico City at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Mexico City at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  