-- Roche Extends $44.50-a-Share Hostile Takeover Bid for Illumina to March 23
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2012-02-27T21:16:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/roche-extends-44-50-a-share-hostile-takeover-bid-for-illumina-to-march-23.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG)  said its $5.7
billion hostile offer for  Illumina Inc. (ILMN)  is attractive because
the maker of gene-mapping tools faces increasing competition
that makes the U.S. company’s growth prospects less certain.  Prices for gene-sequencing machines are under pressure and
governments are cutting funding for Illumina’s academic
customers, so sales may not expand as quickly as the San Diego-
based company has forecast, Roche said in a presentation to
Illumina investors that it filed today with the Securities and
Exchange Commission. Roche also today extended the $44.50 a
share offer until 6 p.m. New York time on March 23 after failing
to win over Illumina shareholders.  The Basel, Switzerland-based drugmaker is wooing the
stockholders after Illumina rebuffed its approaches. The stock
has traded above the offer price since Roche announced the
proposed acquisition Jan. 25, signaling investors expect a
higher bid. Willingness to wait follows a pattern Roche Chairman
Franz Humer and Chief Executive Officer Severin Schwan used in
previous hostile bids for Ventana Medical Systems Inc. and
Genentech Inc.  “They’ve shown previously that they’re quite patient,”
Karl Heinz Koch, a Zurich-based analyst for Helvea SA, said by
phone today. “In the case of Ventana, they extended the bid
several times. I have little doubt they will eventually
increase, but of course they don’t want to jump the gun.”  ‘Opportunistic’ Offer  Illumina rejected the offer, which had been set to expire
at midnight New York time Feb. 24, as “grossly inadequate” and
“blatantly opportunistic.” At the time of the offer,
Illumina’s stock had fallen 46 percent in the previous 12
months.  Still, new products announced in the past two months from
Oxford Nanopore Technologies Ltd. and  Life Technologies Corp. (LIFE) 
may hurt Illumina, Roche said in today’s filing, citing analyst
reports. Illumina is also more optimistic about its own business
than analysts are, Roche said.  Illumina shareholders tendered about 102,165 of the 122.3
million shares outstanding, Roche said.  “An extremely low number of shares have been tendered,
consistent with our view -- and that of our stockholders -- that
Roche’s offer does not reflect Illumina’s unique leadership
position, business performance and future prospects,” Illumina
said in a statement today.  Diagnostic Products  Buying Illumina would expand Roche’s  diagnostic products ,
potentially allowing the company, the world’s biggest maker of
cancer drugs, to better target its medicines to individual
patients. Illumina will introduce a machine capable of scanning
a person’s complete DNA within a day by the end of this year,
the company said Jan. 10.  Illumina gained less than 1 percent to $51.40 at the close
in  New York . The shares have lost 26 percent in the past 12
months.  Illumina bolstered its takeover defenses after Roche’s
offer. The company put in place a so-called poison-pill,
granting investors the right to buy shares at half price, which
would dilute Roche’s stake in Illumina. The company also
outlined a “golden parachute” compensation plan for its
executives if they lose their jobs within two years of an
acquisition.  Besides soliciting shares directly from stockholders, Roche
plans to nominate six candidates for election to Illumina’s
board at the company’s annual meeting this year.  Purchasing Slowdown  The shares plunged 32 percent on Oct. 7 after the company
said there had been an “unprecedented slowdown” in purchasing
by customers. Illumina sells sequencing equipment to research
laboratories, which have cut spending because they’re not sure
of the level of government funding they’ll receive.  Roche’s bid fails to recognize the growth potential from
the company’s 60 percent share of the next-generation genetic
sequencing market, Illumina said.  In June 2007, Roche offered $75 a share for Ventana, which
agreed to sell in January 2008 after Roche raised the bid 19
percent to $89.50. In March 2009, the Swiss drugmaker bought the
44 percent of  Genentech  it didn’t already own for $46.8 billion.
Roche proposed $89 a share in July 2008, and then began a
hostile tender offer at the reduced price of $86.50. The company
then raised the bid twice, to $95 a share, to win support from
Genentech’s board.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  