-- Romney Works Turn-Out to Avoid Embarrassing Defeat in Michigan
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-02-27T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/romney-works-turn-out-to-avoid-embarrassing-defeat-to-santorum-in-michigan.html
Mitt Romney’s Michigan campaign
headquarters in a suburban Detroit office building isn’t much
bigger than a two-car garage. Fewer than a dozen volunteers and
staff members milled about the cramped office late last week
dialing potential voters on cell phones.  The headquarters didn’t  open  until Feb. 18, just 10 days
before the state’s primary election and well after opponent  Rick Santorum  surged in polls and it became clear Romney would need a
serious campaign machine to prevent an embarrassing upset in his
native state.  After a woman at a Romney event in Kalamazoo complained
that she’d received nine telephone calls either pitching him or
critical of Santorum, the candidate quickly responded.  “I’m disappointed that you received nine calls,” the
former Massachusetts governor and private equity executive said.
“You should have received a lot more by now.”  Turning out voters will be critical for both men, with
polls showing a close race in  Michigan (BEESMI) , while Romney leads in
 Arizona (BEESAZ) . Both states will hold primaries on Feb. 28.  A Romney loss in Michigan, where he spent his boyhood and
where his father,  George Romney , served as a popular three-term
governor and was an automobile company chief executive, would
undermine his claims to front-runner status in a path to the
Republican Party’s 2012 presidential nomination.  Super Tuesday Momentum  This week’s primaries will provide momentum heading into
the so-called Super Tuesday on March 6, when 11 states will hold
contests. More than 400 of the 1,144 delegates needed to win the
nomination will be at stake then.  “They all have had a good presence here, but obviously
Romney more so than the others,” said Bobby Schostak, the
Michigan party chairman. “He’s got relationships with folks on
both sides of the state.”  As modest as Romney’s Michigan campaign infrastructure is,
it’s still more robust than Santorum’s: Campaign workers at 
Santorum's events have been less aggressive in trying to collect
names, phone numbers and e-mail addresses, a practice that helps
build databases used to cajole voters to go their polling places.  Steve Mitchell , an East Lansing-based polling expert, said
he expects Santorum to rely on fellow Catholics, evangelical
churches and organizations that oppose abortion rights to help
drive his turnout.  Santorum also has sought to appeal to voters identifying
with his working-class heritage. Romney made a pitch yesterday
with a quick detour to Daytona International Speedway in
 Florida . He veered off script, however, when asked by a reporter
whether he follows the auto-racing circuit.  “Not as closely as some of the most ardent fans,” he
replied, according to the  Associated Press . “But I have some
great friends who are NASCAR team owners.”  Time in Michigan  Romney, 64, has spent more time in Michigan than any of the
candidates in recent years, Schostak said, adding that Santorum
set up his organization in the past few weeks and has no state
offices.  One unknown is how many Democrats and independent voters
will cast ballots in Michigan’s open primary. Members of the
 United Auto Workers  have said they plan to vote for Santorum or
Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas  to extend the primary fight and
prevent Romney from winning the state.  Supporters and Surrogates  A Michigan loss would be humbling for Romney in part
because he’s secured the endorsements and campaign networks of
top Republicans in the state, from Governor  Rick Snyder  on down.  Michigan Attorney General Bill Schuette, Romney’s state
campaign chairman, downplayed the fact that the state
headquarters wasn’t opened until 10 days before the primary.  “We manage our resources carefully,” he said. “You spend
money when it’s wise to spend money.”  The campaign also has dispatched a number of surrogates to
hold events, including  Tim Pawlenty , an ice-hockey-playing
former governor of nearby  Minnesota , as well as Romney’s wife,
Ann, a  Michigan  native. Real estate mogul  Donald Trump  also
campaigned for Romney via automated phone calls to Michigan
voters in which he attacked Santorum for being a “career
politician” who “doesn’t know about producing jobs.”  North Country  The most fertile areas for Santorum, 53, are the state’s
western and northern sections, where the party is more dominated
by Christian evangelicals and an anti-government culture.
Yesterday Santorum visited the sparsely populated Upper
Peninsula, where Romney hasn’t been in recent days.  The area is home to the state’s 1st Congressional District,
where gun rights are important to many voters. The 30 delegates
at stake are apportioned by congressional district.  Romney’s greatest strength is in the suburbs around
 Detroit , an area where he grew up that is home to much of the
state’s wealth and many of its corporate executives.  Michigan also has a significant presence of  Tea Party 
activists who often support less government and lower taxes.
Santorum has been able to generate crowds by using local Tea
Party groups, although Romney also has enjoyed warm welcomes at
Tea Party gatherings during the past week.  The state’s Tea Party movement has been fueled in part by
an economy hurt by the loss of manufacturing jobs. Conditions in
the state are improving. It has seen  unemployment  decline from a
peak of 14.1 percent in August 2009 to 9.3 percent in December,
the latest month for which numbers are available. The national
jobless rate was 8.3 percent in January.  Differing Candidate Appeals  Romney and Santorum held events within three miles (4.8
kilometers) of each other yesterday in Traverse City. The
gatherings contrasted in style and organization.  Santorum rallied voters at a concert venue with an
impassioned address on the separation of church and state.  Recalling a 1960 speech on the importance of keeping
religion out of public life by former President  John F. Kennedy ,
a fellow Catholic, Santorum said during an ABC News interview
that such sentiment makes him want to “throw up.”  “Why? Because he said this, ’I believe in an America where
the separation between church and state is absolute,’” Santorum
said. “That is  France , not America,” he said to applause of a
crowd of more than 700 in Michigan.  Romney, speaking to several hundred voters at the Park
Place hotel hours later, focused on the economy, assailing
President Barack Obama for raising government debt and failing
to restart the struggling economy.  “This is a president who’s out of ideas and he’s out of
excuses and 2012 he’ll be out of office,” he said.  Outside Groups  As Romney focuses on turn-out, a political action committee
backing him, Restore Our Future, is helping on television.
Spending in Michigan on commercials by Romney’s campaign and
Restore Our Future has outpaced expenditures on behalf of
Santorum by a ratio of about 3-to-2, according to data from New
York-based Kantar Media’s CMAG, a company that tracks
advertising.  The Romney campaign and Restore Our Future spent $2.29
million to air ads 4,341 times on Michigan broadcast television
stations through Feb. 23, CMAG reported. Santorum and the Red
White and Blue Fund, a super-PAC supporting him, spent $1.49
million to air ads 3,721 times. The two super-PACs paid for
4,678 of the 8,062 ads, or 58 percent.  Mailed Attacks  Terri Lynn Land, a former Michigan secretary of state who
isn’t publicly backing a candidate, said she received in one day
three mailed fliers attacking Santorum from Restore Our Future.
Romney’s strongest backers won’t abandon him, she said.  “Romney raised $1.6 million in this state,” she said.
“That’s a lot of people who wrote checks.”  Santorum had raised $42,365 in Michigan through January,
according to an  analysis  by the Center for Responsive politics
in  Washington .  Mitchell said the candidate with more money typically wins
the ground game and the election. Money can buy automated phone
calls,  text messages  to voters and mailings, he said. “You’ve
got more resources to get people out to vote,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John McCormick  in Livonia, Michigan at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Traverse City, Michigan at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  