-- Romney’s Retail Jobs Offer More Low Wages Than Middle Income
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-02-27T05:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/romney-record-on-retail-job-growth-shows-more-low-wages-than-middle-income.html
Mitt Romney  says the U.S. can be
“the best place in the world to be middle class again” and
points to his hand in founding companies such as  Staples Inc. (SPLS) 
and The Sports Authority Inc. to show he can create jobs to get
people there.  While these retailers provide salaried positions, including
store manager, that offer a path to the middle class, the
majority are hourly jobs that don’t. Sales associates at the two
chains make less than $9 an hour on average, according to survey
data from Glassdoor.com. At that rate, which is common in the
industry, someone working 40 hours a week would earn below the
 poverty line  of $19,090 for a family of three.  “Some people in those companies in management do fine,”
said Stephanie Luce, who studies low-wage labor issues as an
associate professor at the  City University  of New York’s Murphy
Institute. However, “the way to make a living wage is to get
into a management position, and there are very few of those.”  According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, more than 60
percent of workers in office supply and sporting goods stores
are salespeople or cashiers, who are generally paid even less.  While Romney, a former private equity executive, has pegged
his bid for the Republican presidential nomination on aiding the
middle class, the bulk of the retail jobs he touts underscore
the widening income gap that can hold workers back from 
reaching that status.  Fastest Growing  Retail sales positions are among the  fastest-growing  and
lowest-paid jobs in the U.S., according to the BLS, and are
often replacing better-paying manufacturing jobs. The average
compensation, including benefits, across all retail jobs, from
chief executive officer to clerk, is $17.15 an hour, the bureau
says, compared with $32.95 an hour for manufacturing.  Because in some cases the big retailers forced smaller mom-
and-pop stores out of business, it’s unclear how much they have
ultimately contributed to higher employment.  Staples, based in Framingham,  Massachusetts , and  Sports
Authority (TSA)  of Englewood,  Colorado , pay sales associates almost $3
an hour below the retail industry average of $11.92, excluding
benefits. They aren’t alone among so-called big-box retailers.
Sales associates at  Office Depot Inc. (ODP) ,  Dick’s Sporting Goods
Inc. (DKS)  and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  are also paid an average of less
than $9 an hour, according to Glassdoor, an employment website
that has collected salary information on 150,000 companies.  That’s less than the hourly pay for filing clerks, $12.88;
street vendors, $13.13; electrical manufacturing, $15.56; and
the average wage for  all workers  of $21.35 an hour, according to
the BLS.  Benefits Package  Staples offers its workers access to medical coverage, a
401k  retirement plan  with a company match program, discounted
stock purchases and tuition reimbursement. The chain declined to
confirm if part-time employees have access to those benefits.
Closely held Sports Authority declined to offer any details on
its benefits.  One publication, Corporate Responsibility Magazine, ranked
Staples 55th in its list of top  100 companies  in the Russell
1000 Index, with high marks for employee relations. The group
measures companies across seven categories based on public
disclosures.  Romney’s experience at Bain creating jobs at companies like
Staples gives him the skills “to focus on  job creation  and turn
around our nation’s faltering economy,” Andrea Saul, a
spokeswoman for the onetime Massachusetts governor, said in an
e-mail.  Owen Davis, a spokesman for Staples, and Liz Brady, a
spokeswoman for  Sports Authority , declined to comment.  Attacked on Record  When rivals for the Republican nomination for president
started attacking Romney for cutting employment at the companies
controlled by  Bain Capital  LLC while he was CEO, he defended
himself by saying he helped create more than 100,000 jobs. He
counted the combined current employment of both companies after
Bain was part of the initial investment group at the chains in
the 1980s and he served on both boards.  How much Romney was involved at the companies and what
level of credit he should get for current employment figures --
90,000 at Staples and 15,000 and Sports Authority -- is a matter
of debate.  Bain didn’t discover the entrepreneurs who came up with the
ideas for the chains, wasn’t their first investor, and ended its
stake in the companies well before they grew into the national
retailers they are today. Romney did return to the Sports
Authority board for about four years in the 1990s and served as
a director at Staples through 2001.  Kmart Purchase  Kmart bought Sports Authority in 1990, less than three
years after it was founded. It had eight stores at the time of
the deal and now has more than 450. Kmart spun it off into a
public company in 1994 and then it merged with Gart Sports Co.
in 2003.  Staples had its initial public offering in 1989, about four
years after it began. It had fewer than 30 locations at its IPO
and now has more than 2,000 as the largest U.S. office-supply
chain.  Romney has also frequently cited  Domino’s Pizza Inc. (DPZ) , and
to a lesser extent mentioned childcare chain  Bright Horizons
Family Solutions LLC (BFAM) , as companies where he helped create jobs.
Romney didn’t serve on the board of either company.  Bain bought the pizza-delivery chain in September 1998 when
it had more than 6,000 locations. Romney left Bain in February
1999 to serve as CEO of the 2002 Winter Olympics in  Salt Lake
City . Domino’s went public in 2004 and now has more than 9,000
locations.  Bright Horizons  Bright Horizons was founded in 1986, and Bain Capital was
one of the first investors. The company went public in 1997. It
then merged with Corporate Family Solutions in 1998, almost
doubling the size of the company to 8,600 employees.  Bain Capital bought Bright Horizons for $1.3 billion in
2008. It now has about 15,000 full-time U.S. workers with 85
percent being preschool teachers, according to spokeswoman Ilene
Serpa. The average annual pay for an entry-level teacher is
about $30,000. Employees have access to medical coverage, 401k
matching funds and tuition reimbursement, she said. The average
preschool teacher in the U.S. earns $25,530 a year, according to
the BLS.  Romney’s role in the founding of Staples and Sports
Authority was one of a senior adviser, according to people who
helped found the companies. While he wasn’t involved on a daily
basis, he did more than write a check, they said.  “Mitt was very helpful in making it all come together,”
said Paul Korian, who served as Staples original head of
merchandise. “He absolutely helped create jobs.”  Building Consensus  As head of Bain Capital, Romney offered advice as a board
member of the companies on pursuing growth and building
consensus on decisions. He also helped recruit retail executives
and investors.  “He doesn’t get emotionally involved,” said Scott Meadow,
who served as lead investor on the Sports Authority deal for
William Blair & Co. and is now a professor at the University of
Chicago Booth School of Business. “He’s able to convey ideas in
a very succinct and precise manner that is persuasive.”  Such was the case in 1987 as a group of venture capitalists
and retail executives trying to create a sporting goods chain
had come to an impasse over what to call it. Some liked Jack’s,
after CEO Jack Smith, while others preferred All Sports.  As they debated, Meadow said, someone from the ad agency
the company hired happened to visit  New York  and caught a
glimpse of a sign for the  Port Authority , inspiring the idea for
The Sports Authority. Still divided, the group deferred to
Romney to break the stalemate. He chose the new name and
convinced everyone to support it.  ‘More Than Money’  “He brought something more than money to the table,” said
Roy Cohen, the original head of merchandising for Sports
Authority and another participant in the meeting where the name
was debated. “He’s probably one of the three or four most
intellectual people I’ve dealt with across the conference
table,” said Cohen, a self-described liberal Democrat. “Was
Mitt responsible for the success at the Sports Authority?
Certainly, but not by himself.”  By helping start Staples and Sports Authority, Romney also
had a part in ushering in the era of big-box chains that
transformed the retail landscape in the U.S. from one of
regional chains and independent stores to one dominated by
national companies. Known as category killers, the formula of
low prices and high sales volume generated by the larger stores
put smaller competitors out of business.  Helping Small Businesses  Big boxes did bring down prices for consumers, and in the
case of Staples lowered the costs of office supplies for
thousands of small businesses. The growth of big-box chains has
also improved retail jobs, according to Kathryn Shaw, a
professor of economics at the Stanford Graduate School of
Business who has studied the subject.  Large retailers offer entry-level workers better pay, more
promotion opportunities and better benefits, Shaw said. She
pointed to Census Bureau data that showed a worker with only a
high school education was paid an average of about 20 percent
more at a large retailer than a small one.  “We see the spread of modern retail as being advantageous
for some,” Shaw said. “With the dwindling of manufacturing
jobs, many people are finding these jobs to be their career job,
and those who do get promoted into these positions can make
reasonably well-paid income.”  While creating employment by taking share from other
companies is a successful business strategy, it might not be the
best example for managing the  U.S. economy , said Heidi Shierholz, a labor-market economist at the Washington-based
 Economic Policy Institute , which supports policies to help
lower- and middle-income workers.  “A business person can be considered to be doing great
work if no net jobs are created, and they grow at the expense of
another business that falls off,” Shierholz said. “What a
president needs to think about when creating jobs is very
different than what a business person needs to think about.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clark Hoyt at 
 choyt2@bloomberg.net  