-- Putin Assassination Plot Foiled as Two Militants Are Arrested in Ukraine
-- B y   P a u l   A b e l s k y   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2012-02-27T17:57:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/russia-ukraine-foil-assassination-attempt-against-putin-ria-novosti-says.html
Russian and Ukrainian security
services foiled a plot to assassinate  Vladimir Putin , who faces
a presidential election in less than a week, said his spokesman,
Dmitry Peskov.  Two militants were detained in Ukraine for planning to
murder the premier in Moscow after the March 4 presidential
ballot, Russia’s state-run Channel One television  said  today. It
would be “inappropriate” to link the release of information
about the plot to the election, Peskov said by phone today.  Putin, 59, is seeking a return to the Kremlin amid the
biggest challenge to his 12-year rule after fraud allegations at
parliamentary polls in December sparked the largest mass
demonstrations against the government since the 1990s. Thousands
of protesters wearing white ribbons yesterday joined hands in a
bid to encircle central Moscow, including the Kremlin. Three
polls published last week show Putin winning more than 50
percent, the level needed to avoid a runoff.  “Everything is being done to assure Putin’s victory,”
said Gennady Gudkov, a lawmaker for the opposition Just  Russia 
party and a deputy head of the lower house of parliament’s
security committee. “That’s why information is being dumped so
that everyone forgets about mass protest rallies, allowing at
the same time to pick up a few points on people’s sympathy.”  Threats ‘Exist Always’  While threats to the head of state “exist always, every
day,” the timing of the announcement days before the vote is
“odd,” said Gudkov, who is also a former officer at the
Federal Security Service, or FSB, the main successor to the
Soviet-era KGB.  One of the men was arrested last month in Odessa on
Ukraine’s Black Sea coast after arriving there from the  United
Arab Emirates  via  Turkey , Channel One said, adding that the
suspects were acting on the orders of Doku Umarov, a Chechen
rebel leader who has claimed responsibility for orchestrating
terror attacks in Russia before.  Ukraine’s state security service alerted Russia on Jan. 6
after an explosion in a residential building in Odessa two days
earlier led them to uncover the plot, the station said. One of
the would-be assassins was killed and another injured in the
blast, it added.  Suicide Bomber, Landmine  After the blast, Ukraine began an investigation and
“arrested a few people,” First Deputy Prime Minister Valery Khoroshkovskyi, who was head of Ukraine’s security service in
January, said today in an interview in Brussels.  “When they started to give us some details we started to
think about different possible developments,” he said. “And
you can see how it finished.”  Channel One aired a video of one of the men confessing to
planning the attack during an interrogation with unidentified
agents. The second man described the plan to a reporter from the
station. They planned to use a suicide bomber or landmine to
kill Putin, according to the report.  One of the would-be assassins studied economics in  London ,
where he also “mastered the use of explosives” and met exiled
Russian militants, the state-run RIA Novosti news service
reported, citing an interview with him on Russian state
television that was broadcast in the country’s  Far East .  Earlier Plots  The plan to kill Putin was the seventh against the Russian
leader since he came to power in 2000, all of which were blamed
on Chechen militants or al-Qaeda operatives, RIA reported today.
The first plot was announced in February 2000, a month before
Putin was elected president.  Peskov dismissed reports of an attempt on Putin’s life in
2000 as “unconfirmed rumors.”  Putin, as prime minister under then-President  Boris Yeltsin , sent ground troops into Chechnya in 1999 to quell an
uprising by militants seeking to establish an independent
Islamic state in the mainly Muslim Northern Caucasus.  The timing of today’s announcement may boost Putin’s
popularity, said Mikhail Vinogradov, head of the St. Petersburg
Politics Foundation research group in Putin’s hometown.  “To uncover this kind of information a week before the
vote is the ultimate way to mobilize apolitical voters who
haven’t decided whom to vote for,” Vinogradov said by phone.  Putin will probably win the election in the first round
with 60.3 percent of the vote, the Moscow-based Public Opinion
Foundation said today on its website.  The FSB declined to comment on the assassination plot and
nobody authorized to speak to the media at Ukraine’s state
security service, known as the SBU, could be reached by phone in
Kiev.  The SBU confirmed that it worked jointly with Russian
counterparts to thwart the plot, Interfax  reported .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Abelsky in Moscow at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  