-- Tilbury Power Plant in U.K. Ablaze as Biomass Catches Fire
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2012-02-27T17:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/rwe-s-tilbury-power-plant-ablaze-in-essex-as-wood-pellet-stockpiles-burn.html
RWE AG (RWE) ’s Tilbury power station in
southeast  England ,  Europe ’s largest biomass plant, was ablaze
after a fire broke out in the facility’s wood-pellet stockpiles.  “We’ve not had an incident like this before because this
is the first time we’ve converted a power plant to run fully on
biomass,” Kevin McCullogh, chief operating officer at Npower,
RWE’s U.K. unit, said in an interview at Tilbury, about 30 miles
(48 kilometers) east of  London .  As many as 120 firefighters were sent to the site after the
incident at 7:45 a.m. London time, Kelly Brown, a company
spokeswoman in Worcester, said today in an e-mailed statement.
Battling the blaze is to be “a protracted incident” as the
local fire brigade covers the burning wood with high-expansion
foam, it said in an update on its website at 2:48 p.m.  The power station has three wood-pellet burning units and
can produce as much as 750 megawatts of electricity. The U.K. is
encouraging utilities to burn biomass as a way of curbing
carbon-dioxide emissions and reducing reliance on fossil fuels.
The fire follows a blaze at a 100,000 cubic-meter wood-pellet
storage facility at the Port of Tyne in the north of England in
October.  “It doesn’t have to mean catastrophe for the industry,”
said Isabel Boira-Segarra, a partner at EC Harris Group Ltd., an
adviser to the  energy industry . “Once we find out what
happened, we can find out how to mitigate the risk.”  Spontaneous Combustion  RWE, Europe’s biggest emitter of  greenhouse gases , ceased
power output at the station from March to December to convert it
to burn wood pellets instead of coal. It has been generating
electricity since then as part of testing.  “If biomass is stored in large volumes, with little
aeration, it is very likely to catch fire as it can get very
hot,” Claire Curry, a bioenergy analyst at Bloomberg New Energy
Finance, said in an e-mailed response to questions. “Normally
biomass plants will pass streams of cool air through the biomass
to avoid fires happening.”  The biomass fire at Port of Tyne last year was caused by
spontaneous combustion, JournalLive.co.uk  reported  at the time.  Tackling the blaze is made more difficult because the fire
is high in the main building,  David Johnson , chief fire officer
incident commander, said in a separate interview close to the
site. There were no injuries reported and all the station’s
employees were accounted for, according to the  website .  “The fire involves 4,000 to 6,000 tons of biomass high up
in the power-station building,” Johnson said. “Once we have
covered the fire in a blanket of foam, the idea is that the fire
will burn itself out.”  ‘No Explosions’  Power for the next working day rose 2.2 percent to 46.15
pounds ($73.18) a megawatt-hour, according to broker data
compiled by Bloomberg. The Tilbury station’s capacity is equal
to about 1.7 percent of the amount of electricity generated at
all U.K. plants at 4:30 p.m., according to National Grid data on
Bloomberg.  “There were no explosions,” Mick Nicholls, manager at The
World’s End pub, overlooking the power station, said in an
interview. “We saw the flames this morning; they were billowing
out.”  The fire may increase the cost of Renewable Obligation
Certificates, or ROCs, according to Brian Potskowski, an analyst
at Bloomberg New Energy Finance. The Department for Energy and
 Climate Change  proposed on Oct. 31 creating a new subsidy to
award power stations that convert to using biomass.  Biomass Target  The power station won’t receive tradable ROCs while it’s
idle so the halt may be “bullish for ROC prices,” Potskowski
said in an e-mailed comment.  The U.K. is seeking to get 15 percent of its energy from
renewable sources by 2020. The Department of Energy and Climate
Change estimates as much as half of that may be generated from
biomass, which includes municipal waste, wood chips and straw.  Burning of wood and wood waste for energy in the U.K. rose
8 percent to 648,000 tons of oil equivalent in 2010 from 598,000
tons in 2009, according to the most recent  statistics  from the
Department of Energy and Climate Change.  “We’ve been dealing with combustible materials in power
plants for decades, be that coal, gas or oil,” McCullough said.
“We hope that the majority of the damage will be superficial.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  