-- Samsung Aims to Double Mobile Sales
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-02-27T06:47:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/samsung-aims-to-double-mobile-sales.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s
second-largest handset maker, said it aims to double sales of
smartphones and tablet computers this year with a wider range of
Galaxy-branded devices, intensifying competition with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   Samsung, which shipped about 97 million smartphones last
year, plans to introduce a successor to the Galaxy S II in the
first half of the year and other models later, the company said
in an e-mailed statement today. Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung
didn’t disclose data for tablet sales and the 2012 target.  Samsung, locked up in global patent lawsuits with Apple
over mobile technology and design, sold a record 300 million
handsets including basic models in 2011, helped by the
popularity of its Galaxy products that run  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android
software. The company expects to sell about 380 million handsets
this year, including all types, J.K. Shin, head of the mobile
business, told reporters in Barcelona yesterday.  “The target shows the confidence Samsung has,” Koo Ja Woo, a Seoul-based analyst at Kyobo Securities Co., said by
telephone. “I’m not sure when the next iPhone will come out,
but Samsung will keep introducing flagship models to keep pace.
Also, low-end smartphones will be a new volume area.”  Samsung fell 0.8 percent to 1,171,000 won in Seoul trading
today. The shares have gained 11 percent this year, compared
with a 29 percent increase for Apple.  Global sales of the Galaxy S II reached 20 million in about
10 months since it went on sale, about seven months faster than
shipments of its predecessor, Samsung said last week. Tablet
sales may double to about 10 million units this year, Koo said.  At the  Mobile World Congress  show starting in Barcelona
today, Samsung will unveil what it says will be the world’s
thinnest smartphone, the Galaxy Beam. The phone can also be used
as a video projector, the company said in a separate statement
today. Samsung will also show two models of the Galaxy Tab 2
with 7-inch and 10.1-inch displays.  The company has sold about 2 million units of the Galaxy
Note equipped with a 5.3-inch screen and a stylus since sales
began in October, Samsung said today. The company expects to
sell another 8 million units of the model by the end of this
year and plans to introduce more pen-equipped products with
different screen sizes, Samsung said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  