-- Samsonite Expects European Travel Market to ‘Go Back Slightly’
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-02-27T16:42:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/samsonite-expects-european-travel-market-to-go-back-slightly-.html
Samsonite International SA (1910) , the
world’s largest maker of branded luggage, expects the European
travel market to retreat in the first six months of the year and
then begin to recover.  “Maybe in the first half it will go back slightly but I
think in the second half of this year and next year, things will
get better,” Chairman Tim Parker said in an interview in London
yesterday. “I’m not pessimistic about  Europe  and I think we’re
probably over the worst in terms of the credit crunch.”  Samsonite will consider “more moderated” price increases
in 2012 after boosting charges by 4 percent to 5 percent last
year to help cover higher labor and commodity costs, Parker
said.  Spain  and  Italy  have “flat” sales and are the biggest
challenges in Europe for the Massachusetts-based maker of
suitcases, backpacks and duffle bags, he said.  “ Germany , the Netherlands, Scandinavia are actually doing
really quite well,” the 56-year-old Oxford-educated executive
said. “ France  and the U.K. are flat-lining and Italy and Spain
are slightly more challenged,” he said.  Asia (1910)  overtook Europe as Samsonite’s largest market “by a
slither” in the first half of last year, and the region has the
highest revenue growth rate at 40 percent to 50 percent, Parker
said.  The retailer, which sells the B-Lite suitcase for 159 euros
($213),  listed  on the Hong Kong exchange last year, and the
shares have advanced 7.5 percent since then to HK$13.98, though
they remain below the initial public offering price of HK$14.50.  Asian Stores  Samsonite opened 250 points of sale in  Asia  in the first
half with majority concession spaces inside malls and shopping
centers, along with standalone outlets and franchise dealers.
Higher prices, innovations in reducing weight such as Cosmolite
plastic laminate bags, changes to airline luggage rules, and
increasing tourism in Asia are driving growth, said Parker, who
is also chief executive officer of the company.  Samsonite remains interested in acquisitions and isn’t in
discussions with anyone, including Tumi Holdings Inc., Parker
said. A Samsonite executive described the South Plainfield, New
Jersey-based bagmaker as a “natural fit” last month.  “We wouldn’t aim to raise any new equity, but the company
has significant  debt capacity ” for purchases, Parker said. The
retailer, with about 50 factories in Asia and sales to more than
100 countries is a “formidable distribution machine” he said.
The company would be interested in brands that can piggyback on
its existing distribution, Parker added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  