-- Santorum Plan to Spur Workers by Cutting Aid Seen as Wrong Cure
-- B y   D a v i d   J .   L y n c h
-- 2012-02-27T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/santorum-s-plan-to-spur-workers-by-cutting-jobless-aid-seen-as-wrong-cure.html
Rick Santorum  has a remedy for the
U.S. jobs crisis: Make it harder to be unemployed.  Generous government benefits, including as many as 99 weeks
of unemployment insurance, explain why some companies are having
trouble finding workers even with an 8.3 percent jobless rate,
according to the Republican presidential contender.  “When you have 99 weeks of unemployment benefits and you
have a variety of other social safety net programs, people can
make choices that they otherwise wouldn’t make,” the former
U.S. senator from  Pennsylvania  said on Feb. 16 in Detroit.  Economists say that while extended benefits may reduce
incentives to work, Santorum is overstating the impact on the
unemployment rate. And his proposed fix -- capping federal
social spending and turning programs over to the states --
isn’t appropriate in such a weak economy, they say.  “My research does not offer any support for” Santorum’s
argument, said Jesse Rothstein, of the  University of California 
at Berkeley, who wrote the most recent study on the effect of
extended benefits for the unemployed.  Santorum cites a historical precedent: To rein in federal
spending and spur economic growth, benefits for the jobless,
poor and hungry should be overhauled along the lines of the 1996
welfare-reform act. That bipartisan effort replaced a New Deal
social program, which even many Democrats regarded as flawed,
with less-costly benefits that were limited in duration and
required applicants to work.  Going After Programs  “We will go after all of the means-tested entitlement
programs --  Medicaid (USBOMDCA) ,  food stamps , all of those programs -- and
do what we did with welfare,” Santorum said during a Feb. 22
Republican presidential debate.  Rothstein’s study, released in  October  2011, concluded that
the average national jobless rate of  9 percent  in early 2011
would have been just 0.1 to 0.5 percentage point lower if
benefits hadn’t been extended.  Much of that effect reflects decisions by long-term
unemployed workers to continue searching for jobs to retain
their eligibility for benefits, Rothstein, a former chief
economist for the U.S. Department of Labor, says.  It’s the Economy  Some analysts also question the wisdom of applying the
welfare-overhaul model to other social programs in today’s
economy. The initial success of the 1996 welfare reform act in
boosting employment and reducing poverty, especially among
single mothers, came when the economy was growing more than 4
percent a year on average. It has expanded at less than half
that pace since the recession ended in June 2009.  Among families headed by single mothers, 31.6 percent were
poor in 2010, the same percentage as in 1997, according to the
Census Bureau. And, in July 1997, the month welfare reform took
effect, the  unemployment rate  was 4.9 percent.  “It really is about the economy and about having very few
jobs available,” said LaDonna Pavetti, vice president for
family income support policy at the nonpartisan Center for
Budget and Policy Priorities in  Washington .  Hogan Gidley and Alice Stewart, representatives of the
Santorum campaign, didn’t respond to e-mails seeking comment.  The Republican presidential spotlight tomorrow reaches
 Michigan , where the near collapse of the automobile industry
after the 2008 credit crunch drove unemployment to a  peak of
14.1 percent  in 2009, compared with a low of 3.3 percent in
2000. The state’s 9.3 percent rate in December is still a
percentage point above the national figure.  Jobs Aren’t There  John Bierbusse, executive director of Michigan Works!, a
nonprofit workforce-development agency, disputes the idea that
ample benefits are allowing the unemployed to be overly choosy.
 Michigan (BEESMI) ’s average weekly benefit was $296 in 2010, an amount
that on an annual basis would provide a family of four an income
equal to two-thirds of the federal poverty standard.  “If the jobs were there, people would flood back into the
labor market,” said Bierbusse.  Nationally, a 2010 study by two economists at the Federal
Reserve Bank of  San Francisco  concluded that extended benefits
were responsible for 0.4 percentage points of the 5.5-
percentage-point increase in the jobless rate over the three
years ending in the fall of 2009.  The almost 10 percent jobless rate at the end of 2009 would
have been 9.6 percent if benefits had been capped at 26 weeks,
the  study found . And the typical spell of joblessness would have
been about 10 days shorter.  Timing the Benefits  “Extended  unemployment insurance  benefits have not been
important factors in the increase in the duration of
unemployment or in the elevated unemployment rate,” wrote
economists Rob Valletta and Katherine Kuang.  Earlier studies, extrapolating from recessions in the 1970s
and 1980s, found larger effects. Factories then often timed
temporary layoffs so workers were recalled as their unemployment
benefits ran out. That made it appear that the workers had
intensified their job searches because their weekly payments
were running out.  During recessions, lawmakers typically provide federal
benefits for workers who exhaust their 26 weeks of state aid.
With 5.5 million workers having been unemployed for more than
six months, Congress agreed on Feb. 17 to extend benefits
through the end of this year. The current 99-week maximum is the
longest that  unemployment benefits  have lasted.  The latest $30 billion extension gradually reduces
eligibility periods. By year’s end, most states would cap
benefits at 63 weeks while some high-unemployment states would
provide an additional 10 weeks of help.  Shortage of Jobs  The nation’s 12.8 million unemployed outnumber available
job openings by almost 4-to-1, according to the Labor
Department.  Still, James Sherk, an analyst at the  Heritage Foundation ,
said lengthy aid programs only encourage the long-term
unemployed to delay confronting the reality that they need to
relocate or change industries to find work.  “GM’s got about 40,000 hourly unionized workers; they’re
never going back to 100,000,” he said. “The jobs don’t exist
to re-employ all the workers that lost them.”  Santorum says that with the baby boom generation beginning
to retire, the country can’t afford “this explosion of
benefits.” Enabling people to remain unemployed for an extended
period only erodes their skills, he says, so extended aid should
be coupled with required job training.  Block Grants  He and other Republicans want to turn food stamps,  Medicaid (USBOMDCA) 
and other benefits into block grants. That means the aid would
no longer be granted as entitlements to the poor. Instead, the
federal government would set time limits and work requirements
while providing states a flat amount and flexibility over
spending.  The welfare overhaul also aimed to reduce poverty and
promote work by replacing the Aid to Families with Dependent
Children entitlement with block grants to states. Individual
benefits were capped, usually with a maximum of five years, and
recipients were required to work after an initial period.  Santorum has likened the mid-1990s challenge of cutting
welfare rolls to the current situation with the Supplemental
Nutrition Assistance Program. More than 46 million Americans
receive benefits under the so-called food-stamp program, up from
27 million before the recession began in December 2007. The
average monthly benefit per person is $134.  “We cut the welfare rolls by 50 percent,” Santorum said
in his speech to the  Detroit  Economic Club. “We did that at a
time when welfare rolls were the highest level ever, just like
food stamps are at the highest level ever.”  Inevitable Reductions  Reductions in federal social programs are inevitable amid
trillion-dollar annual budget deficits, said Ron Haskins, a
former Republican congressional aide who worked on the welfare
overhaul. Requiring food-stamp recipients to show they are
looking for work, which welfare reform mandated, would reduce
the number of recipients, he said.  After welfare was revamped, the  poverty rate  fell from 13.7
percent in 1996 to 11.3 percent in 2000. Amid the recession, the
economy in recent years surrendered many of those gains.  “When it was a very strong economy in the late-’90s,
welfare reform worked very well,” said Pamela Loprest, director
of the Urban Institute’s Income and Benefits Policy Center.
“Individuals found jobs. Employment for single mothers went up.
Now, these people aren’t able to work. They’re just poorer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David J. Lynch in Washington at 
 dlynch27@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 