-- Santorum Says Romney ‘Uniquely Unqualified’ to Tackle Obama
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-02-27T23:02:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/santorum-romney-uniquely-unqualified-to-confront-obama.html
Rick Santorum  pressed his case today
that the  Republican Party  would hurt its chances in November’s
election if it nominates  Mitt Romney  because he has taken too
many positions similar to those of President  Barack Obama .  “We have an opportunity in this race to make this about
Barack Obama and his failed policies,” Santorum told a business
group in Livonia, Michigan. “We need a candidate who can make
that point, who can make it on the big issues of the day --
energy, jobs and manufacturing, limited government -- important
issues like health care and its effect on the economy.”  On the eve of primaries in Michigan and  Arizona , Santorum
charged that Romney’s support of health-care legislation as
governor of  Massachusetts  would damage the party’s standing
because it is similar to the federal law Obama pushed through
Congress.  “Why would we give this issue away?” Santorum asked. “It
is the biggest issue in this race. It’s about taking control of
your economic lives.” Calling Romney “uniquely unqualified”
to make the case against Obama, he said the party would be
foolish to pick someone who “did Obamacare-lite.”  ‘Washington Insider’  Andrea Saul, a Romney spokeswoman, responded in a statement
by saying Santorum is a “Washington insider who is lashing out
at Mitt Romney because his campaign is floundering.”  She noted that Santorum endorsed Romney’s failed 2008
presidential bid because of his “conservative” record. “Now,
Rick’s changed his tune,” she said. “This sounds like another
case of Rick Santorum abandoning his principles for his own
political advantage.”  As the campaign in Michigan evolved over the last two
weeks, Romney’s camp spotlighted Santorum’s career in Congress
after polls showed the former Pennsylvania senator ahead. A
Romney loss in Michigan, where he spent his boyhood and where
his father,  George Romney , served three terms as governor and
was an automobile company chief executive, would undermine his
claim of front-runner status in the Republican presidential
nomination race.  Delegate Allocation  Polls now show a close contest in  Michigan (BEESMI) , while Romney
leads in  Arizona (BEESAZ) . Michigan will award 30 delegates based on how
the candidates do in each of the state’s congressional
districts, while the winner in Arizona will get all 29 delegates
there. That’s one reason Santorum has concentrated on Michigan,
and it might mean that the overall vote-total winner in the
state won’t necessarily collect the most convention delegates.  Neither of the two other Republican presidential contenders
-- former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  and U.S.
Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas  -- has competed aggressively in
Michigan, concentrating instead on states voting next month.
Gingrich’s efforts appear set to get a boost --  Sheldon Adelson ,
chairman of the Las Vegas Sands Corp., is giving a fresh
infusion of cash to a group supporting Gingrich, according to a
person close to the organization who wasn’t authorized to
publicly discuss its finances.  The undisclosed amount of money will fund pro-Gingrich
television ads to run in seven states that hold contests in
early March, the person said.  The PAC, Winning Our Future, had $2.4 million as February
started, according to Federal Election Commission reports.
Almost all of its $11 million in donations in January came from
Adelson and his wife, Miriam, each of whom gave $5 million, and
Texas billionaire Harold Simmons, who donated $500,000. Data
compiled by Bloomberg show that Adelson is among the top 20
wealthiest people in the world.  Changing Subject  As Romney wrapped up his Michigan campaigning, he sought to
change the subject of the campaign debate following several days
where Santorum highlighted social issues such as abortion,
religion and  birth control .  “It’s time for him to really focus on the economy,”
Romney said today in Rockford, Michigan.  Asked about that comment following his Livonia appearance,
Santorum responded: “Tell him to watch my speech.”  At a stop in Albion, Romney pointed to the government-
related work Santorum and Gingrich, another Republican
presidential candidate, did after leaving Congress.  “They worked for companies, for lobbying firms in
 Washington ,” Romney said. “They worked as elected officials in
Washington. That’s what they know. I spent 25 years working
business. That’s what I know.”  Super Tuesday Momentum  Tomorrow’s primaries will determine who has the momentum
heading into so-called Super Tuesday on March 6, when 11 states
will hold contests. More than 400 of the 1,144 delegates needed
to win the nomination will be at stake then.  In one of those March 6 states --  Ohio  -- Santorum holds a
lead over Romney among likely Republican voters, 36 percent to
29 percent, according to a  poll  by Hamden, Connecticut-based
 Quinnipiac University . The survey was taken Feb. 23-26 and has a
margin of error of plus or minus 3.4 percentage points.  One unknown in  Michigan  is how many Democrats and
independents will cast ballots in the open primary. Some members
of the  United Auto Workers  have said they plan to vote for
Santorum or Paul in a bid to extend the primary fight and
prevent Romney from winning the state.  Romney, a former private equity executive, has made
economic issues his campaign’s focus and has tried to use that
experience to distinguish himself from his Republican rivals.
Santorum’s focus on religion has diverted attention away from
Romney’s economic message, forcing him to tackle issues he tends
to be less comfortable discussing.  ‘Nice Guy’  Romney, 64, today contrasted his business experience with
Santorum’s background in Congress, casting his rival as a
creature of Washington with little private-sector experience.  “I’ve spent 25 years in business. I understand why jobs go
why they come,” Romney said. “Senator Santorum is a nice guy,
but he’s never had a job in the private sector.”  Santorum continued to talk about the importance of religion
in U.S. society.  “We hear so much about separation of church and state,”
he said. “I’m for separation of church and state. The state has
no business” telling churches what to do.  Santorum, 53, told reporters after his speech that he is
pleased with his place in the race.  “We’re doing remarkably well for being as outspent as we
are,” he said. “We feel very, very good about the reaction
we’re getting as we travel around the state of Michigan, getting
good crowds and obviously people are reacting well to our
message.”  Ad Spending  Spending in Michigan on television commercials by Romney’s
campaign and a political action committee backing him has
outpaced expenditures on behalf of Santorum by a ratio of about
3-to-2, according to data from New York-based Kantar Media’s
CMAG, a company that tracks advertising.  The Romney campaign and Restore Our Future spent $2.85
million to air ads 5,544 times on Michigan broadcast television
stations through yesterday, CMAG reported. Santorum and the Red
White and Blue Fund, a PAC supporting him, spent $1.94 million
to air ads 4,749 times.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John McCormick  in Livonia, Michigan at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Albion, Michigan at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  