-- Saudi Billionaire to Invest $3.4 Billion in Ethiopia Over Next Five Years
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2012-02-27T11:46:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/saudi-billionaire-to-invest-3-4-billion-in-ethiopia-over-next-five-years.html
Derba Group, an amalgam of three
Ethiopian companies owned by Saudi billionaire Mohammed al- Amoudi, said it plans to invest 59 billion birr ($3.4 billion)
in seven industrial projects over the next five years.  The company, formed last month, has already invested 12
billion birr of a planned 71 billion birr in agriculture and
cement in the Horn of Africa country, Chief Executive Officer
Haile Assegide said today by phone from Derba Midroc Cement
Plc’s plant near Chancho, about 70 kilometers (44 miles)
northwest of  Addis Ababa , the capital.  “The balance will be invested in the next five-year
period,” said Haile. Derba’s cement, steel, agriculture and
transport operations may generate annual revenue of 41 billion
birr and create more than 370,000 jobs, he said.  Ethiopian-born al-Amoudi is ranked by Forbes magazine as
the world’s 63rd-richest person and was worth $12.3 billion in
March. The 66-year-old is close to the Saudi royal family and
his construction company, Midroc, built the $30 billion
underground oil storage facility in the kingdom in the late
1980s, according to the magazine.  Al-Amoudi’s Saudi Star Agricultural Development Plc, which
is primarily growing rice to export to  Saudi Arabia , has leased
10,000 hectares (24,711 acres) of land in  Ethiopia ’s western
Gambella region where it plans to build two rice mill factories,
Haile said. The company is also in the “process of leasing an
additional 290,000 hectares,” he said, without providing further
details.  Foreign Currency  Investment in Saudi Star is projected to be 52 billion birr,
of which 3.5 billion has already been spent on agricultural
machinery, construction and consulting, according to Haile, a
former works and urban development minister. Annual foreign
currency earnings from crops, which will also include sugar beet
and cereals, may reach 17.3 billion birr, he said.  Derba Midroc Cement , Ethiopia’s largest producer of the
building material, was inaugurated by Prime Minister Meles Zenawi this month. The factory will make Ethiopia “self-
sufficient” in cement, according to Haile.  The five other projects targeted for investment are Derba
Transport, Maya PP Bag, Derba Lime and Chemicals, Toussa Steel
Mill and Dashen Cement, he said. The government will earn more
than 6 billion birr a year from “value-added tax alone” from the
seven projects, said Haile.  The group’s other interests include gold mining, trading,
construction and cable-manufacturing operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Davison  in Addis Ababa via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 