-- Schumer’s Wall Street Backers Targeted as His Party Preaches Tax Fairness
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2012-02-27T15:03:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/schumer-s-wall-street-backers-targeted-as-his-party-preaches-tax-fairness.html
The  Democratic Party ’s tax-fairness
campaign theme pits Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, among the
chief architects of that message, against some of his most
influential constituents and top campaign donors.  Democrats are renewing their bid to end the carried
interest tax break for private-equity managers after Republican
presidential candidate Mitt Romney’s 2010 return, released last
month, showed he used it to help limit his effective tax rate to
13.9 percent. The line of attack may be uncomfortable for
Schumer as Wall Street leaders have been top contributors to his
re-election and fundraising efforts, said  Rogan Kersh , a public
policy professor and lobbying expert at New York University.  “If Schumer were a rookie or somebody not experienced in
this kind of politics you’d think this might be his undoing,”
Kersh said. “It’s awkward for Schumer.” Even so, Kersh said,
“he knows how to play this game. He’s been doing it for
years.”  Schumer, the U.S. Senate’s third-ranking Democrat, is a
leading voice for his party heading into the November election,
pledging to “focus like a laser on the middle class.” A third-
term senator, he serves on the Finance Committee, which has
authority over  tax policy . Schumer shepherds his party’s
messaging on a range of issues including economic stimulus and
election themes that square off with the Republican Party.  Chief Contributor  The securities and investment industry, through its
employees, has been the chief contributor to Schumer’s re-
election efforts, directing $2.7 million to his campaigns from
2007 to 2012, according to the Center for Responsive Politics in
Washington, which tracks campaign spending. The industries are
concentrated in New York.  During that period, hedge-fund sponsor Paulson and Co. was
the second-largest contributor to Schumer with $137,300. The
biggest was Paul, Weiss, Rifkind and Garrison LLP with $145,550;
New York-based Blackstone Group LP came in eighth, with $68,000
in contributions.  Schumer declined, through his spokesman,  Brian Fallon , to
be interviewed on the tax treatment of carried interest.  In 2008, when Schumer was head of the Democratic Senatorial
Campaign Committee, he raised $14.8 million from securities and
investment firms for his party’s candidates, according to the
center.  Wall Street Focus  “He has been, if not the senator from  Wall Street , at
least a senior New York senator who pays close attention to the
finance industry,” Kersh said.  The debate is over so-called carried interest, the profits-
based compensation that private-equity managers, real estate
investors and members of oil and gas partnerships often receive.
They get a portion of their clients’ earnings as investment
income if the underlying earnings are treated that way.  Managers receive management fees and carried interest,
which often is a 20 percent share of the profits earned by the
fund. The management fees are taxed as ordinary income, with a
top rate of 35 percent, while carried interest is generally
considered a capital gain taxed at a top rate of 15 percent.  President  Barack Obama  and congressional Democrats have
called carried interest compensation for work, which they say
should be viewed like wages for tax purposes and taxed at
ordinary income rates of up to 35 percent.  In 2010, $7.4 million of Romney’s $21.6 million in income
was in the form of carried interest, his campaign said. It was
taxed at the capital gains rate.  Discouraging Investment  Republicans say changing the tax treatment of carried
interest would discourage investment, while Democrats cite
Romney as a symbol of preferential treatment, and unfairness, in
the U.S. tax code.  During a Feb. 1 news conference, Senator  Al Franken  cited
donations to Romney from  New York  hedge-fund managers  Robert Mercer , co-chief executive officer of Renaissance Technologies,
and  Julian Robertson , founder of Tiger Management LLC, as
examples of the influence of money in politics. They each
donated $1 million to Restore Our Future, a so-called super-
political action committee dedicated to electing Romney, in the
past six months, according to Federal Election Commission data.  Schumer stood silently to Franken’s right as the Minnesota
Democrat called the contributions a “bargain” for financiers
who expect Romney to protect their preferential tax treatment.  Schumer, when asked later about his position on the issue,
said he has long supported taxing carried interest as ordinary
income. “I’ve taken that position for years,” he said. “I
have voted for raising it to 35 percent. It’s the right thing to
do.”  Schumer has balanced the donors’ interests against the
politics of his party, sometimes warning against a tax increase
while never directly opposing one during congressional votes.  ‘Complicates Things’  “It complicates things for him in that the Republican
nominee has taken such advantage of this provision,” said Greg Valliere, chief political strategist at the Potomac Research
Group in  Washington . “It’s always been an area Schumer has
shied away from.”  Schumer’s efforts to support his upper-income constituents
were on display during a recent congressional hearing. He
implored U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  to support
capping deductions and extending the 2001 and 2003 income tax
cuts for U.S. households earning more than $1 million instead of
the $250,000 Obama has proposed. “Why don’t we all move to the
nice $1 million,” he said during a Feb. 14 meeting of the
Senate Finance Committee.  New York Interests  In July 2007, before the collapse of U.S. financial
institutions, Schumer said changing the tax treatment of carried
interest could compromise U.S. competitiveness.  The U.S. “shouldn’t do anything” to “make it easier for
capital and ideas to flow to  London  or anywhere else,” Schumer
said at a Finance Committee hearing. “I will fight as hard as I
can to protect the interests of New York, and ensure that it
remains the pre-eminent financial center in the world.”  The senator has long supported raising the  tax rate  for
carried interest as long as other industries besides private
equity are treated the same way, said Jeff Hamond, Schumer’s
former economic policy director.  “He felt like they shouldn’t be picking just on New
York,” Hamond said in an interview.  Schumer has said the increased tax on carried interest
should also be applied to partnerships in the oil and gas
industry.  Lobbying Deluge  NYU’s Kersh said that broadening the industries on this
issue would cause a lobbying deluge and kill prospects for
carried-interest legislation. “You just spread the field of
battle and that tends to make the issue go away,” he said.  Growing income inequality and the view among some Democrats
and executives that the middle class is shrinking have changed
the politics of the carried interest issue, said John Mercurio,
a New York Democratic political strategist who has worked on a
number of congressional and presidential campaigns.  “The problem is that extreme, that he really needs to be
doing this,” he said. “A lot of progressive liberal people,
not just  Warren Buffett  and  Bill Gates , but rank-and-file rich
people also feel it’s important,” said Mercurio, whose clients
also receive contributions from private equity managers.  An October 2011 Congressional Budget Office study found
income for the top-earning 1 percent of U.S. households rose 275
percent over the past three decades. For the 60 percent of
households in the middle of the income scale, growth in average
after-tax  household income  was just less than 40 percent.  Between 2005 and 2007, the after-tax income received by the
20 percent of the population with the highest income exceeded
the after-tax income of the remaining 80 percent, the CBO found.  Democratic Legislation  Democrats have repeatedly tried to pass legislation to tax
carried interest at ordinary income rates.  Obama’s 2013 budget proposal would raise $13 billion over a
decade by taxing the income of hedge-fund managers and private
equity partners at ordinary income rates. Obama also wants to
impose a 30 percent minimum tax for individuals with annual
incomes of at least $1 million, a rule named after billionaire
investor Warren Buffett, who originated the idea.  Representative  Sander Levin , a Michigan Democrat, on Feb.
14 introduced a measure to raise taxes on carried interest,
similar to a measure he proposed in 2007.  During a Jan. 25 news conference, Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid  cited Romney’s tax records as the impetus for
addressing carried interest. “That pretty well indicates why
it’s become an emergency,” the Nevada Democrat said.  Earlier at the same event, Schumer outlined his party’s tax
priorities, making no mention of carried interest. He cited
eliminating some corporate tax breaks, letting the 2001 and 2003
tax cuts for upper-income earners lapse and creating tax
incentives for companies that add jobs in the U.S.  “When Republicans say  tax reform , it’s often code words
for simply reducing taxes on the wealthy,” Schumer said. “It’s
a priority for us to act on some kind of Romney -- I mean,
Buffett -- rule.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  