-- SEC’s Ex-Top Lawyer to Repay $556,000 in Madoff Ponzi Funds
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-02-27T23:02:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/sec-s-ex-top-lawyer-said-to-pay-556-000-to-settle-madoff-claims.html
The family of David M. Becker, the
former top lawyer for the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, agreed to pay $556,017 to settle claims over
inherited money that was linked to  Bernard Madoff ’s Ponzi
scheme.  The payment is equal to the entire amount of profits that
Becker and his brothers inherited from a Madoff account held by
their mother, who died in 2004, according to a  statement  today
by Amanda Remus, a spokeswoman for Irving H. Picard, the trustee
liquidating Madoff’s firm.  Picard, in a November 2010 lawsuit filed in  bankruptcy
court  in  New York , had originally claimed that the Beckers
received $1.5 million in fictitious profits.  Becker, who left the SEC in 2011 to return to private legal
practice, faced criticism last year after Picard’s lawsuit was
made public, suggesting he may have had a personal financial
interest in policies he worked on at the SEC related to how
Madoff customers should be compensated.  William Baker III, Becker’s attorney, said in an e-mailed
statement today that Becker made full disclosure of his mother’s
account while he was at the SEC and followed the agency’s ethics
procedures.  The SEC’s inspector general called for the  Justice
Department  to investigate whether Becker violated ethics laws.
Federal prosecutors declined to open a case.  ‘Unaware’ of Account  Becker “was unaware of his mother’s account until long
after it was liquidated and he always expected that he would
return any fictitious profits that he unknowingly received,”
Baker said. “Mr. Becker has done everything possible, both at
the SEC and in his private affairs, to assist the victims of the
Madoff fraud.”  In the statement today, Remus said the trustee believes
that this settlement represents the best possible outcome for
Madoff customers. The agreement is subject to court approval and
a hearing on the matter is currently scheduled for April 3.  Becker, 64, worked as a clerk for former U.S. Supreme Court
Justice Stanley Reed after graduating from Columbia University
School of Law, where he was editor-in-chief of the law review.
He was the SEC’s general counsel from 1999 to 2002 before
rejoining the agency in 2009 to be Schapiro’s top lawyer.  Becker is now a partner in the Washington office of the
Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton law firm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  