-- Senior Seeks Acquisition, Plans Chinese Truck Parts Venture
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-02-27T14:06:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/senior-ready-to-spend-100-million-on-aerospace-acquisition.html
Senior Plc (SNR) , a British maker of air
ducts and structural parts for passenger jets, is seeking to
spend $50 million to $100 million on an acquisition to expand
its commercial-aerospace division.  Any target would have to have an operating margin of 12
percent to 15 percent, Chief Executive Officer Mark Rollins said
today in an interview. Senior isn’t currently in any
discussions, he said.  “We continue to look for the perfect acquisition if we can
find it, with opportunities more likely in large commercial
aerospace,” the CEO said by phone.  Senior  generated 25 percent of its 640.7 million pounds
($1 billion) in sales last year from providing parts for large
commercial planes built by  Boeing Co. (BA)  and Airbus SA. That
proportion should swell to 31 percent in 2012 amid aircraft-
production rampups and two acquisitions last year that added a
combined 70 million pounds in revenue, the CEO said.  The company, based in Rickmansworth, near  London , reported
today a 21 percent increase in adjusted earnings per share in
2011. Aerospace has helped offset weaker demand for its
automotive parts in  Europe , and Senior is responding by pursuing
growth in  China ’s truck parts market, including a joint venture
to be announced in the first half of this year, Rollins said.  A320 Revenue Boost  Senior is confident about the market for large commercial
planes for the next few years, with 40 percent more planes built
annually by 2014, Rollins said. It has contracts to supply all
major commercial models. Boeing Co.’s single-aisle 737 program
brings in the most in revenue, at $241 million last year, while
the Airbus A320 single aisle plane brought in $117 million,
Rollins said.  Senior recently won a contract to provide parts for the
geared turbofan engine that United Technologies Corp.’s Pratt &
Whitney will be offering as one of two possible engines for the
A320neo, Rollins said. That will boost the revenue it gets per
A320 by 50 percent once deliveries of the new version begin in
late 2015, he said.  Senior also makes fuel-distribution systems and exhaust-gas
recycling equipment for the car and truck markets. Its main
automotive market is in Europe, where sales were down 4 percent
in 2011 and will probably drop another 3 percent to 4 percent in
2012, he said.  The company’s trucks business is focused in  North America ,
where sales rose 34 percent last year and should “remain
strong,” he said. Its biggest customer there is  Cummins Inc. (CMI) ,
which makes  diesel engines .  Rollins said while Senior doesn’t yet operate in the
Chinese trucks market, Cummins has asked it to begin supplying
parts in that market. The CEO declined to name its Chinese
partner participating in the planned joint venture.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  