-- Shekel Drops to Lowest Since January Amid Iran Threat, Economy
-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 2012-02-27T13:36:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/shekel-drops-to-lowest-since-january-amid-iran-threat-economy.html
The shekel fell to the lowest level
in more than a month as demand for riskier assets waned amid
mounting concern over  Iran’s nuclear program  and the impact of
 Europe ’s debt crisis on the local economy.  The shekel weakened 0.8 percent to 3.8038 a dollar at 2:31
p.m. in Tel Aviv. The currency earlier lost as much as 1.1
percent to 3.8131, the lowest intraday level since Jan. 18. The
IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s  Dollar Index (DXY) , which tracks the
U.S. currency against those of six major trading partners
including the euro and yen, gained for the first time in three
days, advancing 0.3 percent.  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said yesterday a
“central subject for discussion” during his meetings with U.S.
President  Barack Obama  and Canadian Prime Minister Stephen
Harper later this week will be  Iran ’s possible pursuit of
nuclear weapons. Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  raised
concern last week about growth in Europe, one of his country’s
biggest export markets. Exports make up about 40 percent of the
Israeli economy.  “The mounting threat of Iran and concern about the impact
of the debt crisis on local economic growth is pushing investors
out of the shekel on a flight to safer assets,” Rony Gitlin,
head of spot trading at Bank Leumi Le-Israel Ltd. in Tel Aviv,
said by telephone.  Nonresidents’ share of total trade  in spot and forward
transactions, options and swaps declined in January to 37.6
percent from 39 percent in December.  Policy Meeting  European leaders will shift their focus this week from a
Greek bailout to the prospect of bolstering the region’s
firewall against debt-crisis contagion as they ready for their
latest summit. As the  European Central Bank  prepares a second
round of cash lending to help shore up the region’s banks,
policy makers are focused on preventing a Greek collapse in
order to take advantage of signs of an improved global economy.  The Bank of  Israel ’s monetary committee, led byFischer,
may leave the benchmark lending rate unchanged at 2.5 percent,
according to all of 24 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg. The
bank announces its decision at 5:30 p.m. today.  One-year
interest rate swaps , an indicator of investor expectations for
rates over the period, fell one basis point to 2.46 percent.  Debt Sale  The  Finance Ministry  sold 1.55 billion shekels ($407
million) of debt at an auction today, bringing the total this
month to 6 billion shekels. Investors submitted bids for 3.9
times the 300 million shekels of the benchmark bonds offered
compared with 4.6 times at last week’s sale. The government also
sold 250 million shekels of the 3.5 percent notes due August
2014.  “Investors did not rush to buy the benchmark bonds at the
auction amid expectations that rates will remain on hold
today,” said Oren Ossad, a bond trader at Excellence Nessuah
Investment House Ltd. in  Ramat Gan , Israel.  The yield on the benchmark 5.5 percent bonds due January
2022 rose two basis points to 4.67 percent, the highest since
Dec. 14. The one-year break-even rate, the yield difference
between the inflation-linked bond and fixed-rate government
bonds of similar maturity, rose 10 basis points to 268, implying
an average annual inflation rate of 2.68 percent.  The Ministry of Finance cut its forecast for economic
expansion this year to 3.2 percent from 4 percent, Finance
Minister Yuval Steinitz said on Jan. 18. The central bank in
December lowered its prediction to 2.8 percent from September’s
estimate of 3.2 percent.  The  Tel-Bond 40 (TEL-B40)  index of corporate bonds declined for a
fourth day, falling 0.1 percent to 262.86.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in  Tel Aviv  at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  