-- Singh Crowding Out Companies Pushes Rates to 11-Month High: India Credit
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2012-02-27T05:10:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/singh-crowding-out-companies-pushes-rates-to-11-month-high-india-credit.html
Indian companies are paying the
highest borrowing costs in 11 months as the government’s record
debt sales drain cash from the banking system.  Three-month commercial paper  yields  surged 90 basis points
this year to 10.73 percent, while similar rates in  China (CNMPA025)  slid 77
basis points and were unchanged in the  U.S. (DCPB090D) , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Lenders in  Asia ’s third-biggest economy
borrowed 1.3 trillion rupees ($26.5 billion) on average every
day from the  Reserve Bank of India  this quarter to meet fund
shortages, more than twice the maximum of 600 billion rupees
favored by the central bank.  A two-month rally in the nation’s benchmark  bonds  has
slowed after Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s administration
boosted its borrowing program for the fiscal year to a level
that is 23 percent higher than planned. Money-market rates will
trend higher until policy makers cut borrowing costs, according
to Peerless Mutual Fund and Federal Bank Ltd.  “The surge in commercial-paper rates is a result of the
government crowding out the debt market following the increase
in its borrowing program,” Krishnamurthy Harihar, a Mumbai-
based treasurer at FirstRand Ltd., a unit of  South Africa ’s
second-largest banking group, said in an interview on Feb. 24.
“The rate is likely to be sticky until the RBI injects
liquidity by reducing banks’ reserve requirements.”  Borrowing Program  Mumbai-based  Housing Development Finance Corp. (HDFC) , the
nation’s largest mortgage lender, sold three-month commercial
paper on Feb. 22 at 10.55 percent, 135 basis points higher than
in July when it raised similar-maturity debt. Apollo Tyres Ltd.,
based in Gurgaon near  New Delhi , borrowed for 90 days at 10.95
percent on Feb. 17, about 68 basis points, or 0.68 percentage
point, higher than what it paid a month earlier, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The cash crunch worsened after the  finance ministry  revised
its borrowing plan for the 12 months through March on Dec. 30.
The government said that day it was pushing up its borrowing
target to 5.1 trillion rupees, compared with the 4.17 trillion
rupees it had outlined before the start of the fiscal year. The
federal administration’s revenue in the nine months ended
December fell 14 percent from a year earlier to 4.8 trillion
rupees, official data showed last month.  Cash Shortages  Banks  sought  1.3 trillion rupees on average per day from
the  Reserve Bank  in 2012, about 8 percent higher than in
December, according to data from the monetary authority. The
call money  rate , at which banks borrow from one another, was
8.95 percent today. The rate has more than doubled from last
year’s low of 3.5 percent touched on June 30.  India’s lenders, traditionally the biggest buyers of
government bonds, are selling sovereign  securities  to boost
their cash. Banks sold 29.70 billion rupees more notes than they
bought in January, reducing their holdings for a second straight
month, according to Reserve Bank data.  The yield on the nation’s 10-year bonds has climbed from a
nine-month low of 8.13 percent touched on Feb. 2. The yield on
the benchmark 8.79 percent securities due November 2021 was
little changed at 8.23 percent today, the highest level since
Feb. 9. The  spread  between those notes and similar-maturity  U.S.
Treasuries  has widened to 624 basis points from last year’s low
of 438 basis points.  India’s benchmark  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  of  shares  fell 2 percent
last week, the most since the five-day period ended Dec. 16, as
higher borrowing costs contributed to weaker-than-forecast
earnings. Fourteen out of 30, or 47 percent, of companies in the
benchmark Sensitive Index of shares reported net income for the
three months through December that trailed analyst estimates,
compared with 40 percent in the quarter earlier.  Reserve Requirements  “The higher funding costs are bound to have an impact on
companies’ earnings,” Ganti N. Murthy, the Mumbai-based head of
fixed income at Peerless Mutual Fund that oversees the
equivalent of $892 million, said in an interview on Feb. 23.
“Tight cash conditions are also diminishing their growth
prospects and in turn the growth of the economy.”  The central  bank  is buying  government bonds  from the market
to temper the increase in yields. The Reserve Bank bought 118.4
billion rupees of notes on Feb. 24, taking its purchases since
the start of November to 1.02 trillion rupees. It also cut the
amount of deposits lenders need to set aside as reserves by 50
basis points to 5.5 percent, the first reduction since 2009, to
free up funds in the financial system.  Rupee’s Advance  “Short-term rates should come down as the Reserve Bank
will continue to inject liquidity through a combination of open-
market operations and reductions in the cash-reserve ratio,”
Mahendra Jajoo, the head of fixed income in Mumbai at Pramerica
Asset Managers, a unit of  Newark , New Jersey-based Prudential
Financial Inc. that oversees $425 million, said in an interview
on Feb. 23. “From here on, money-market rates should stabilize
and ease gradually.”  Jajoo predicts the central bank will reduce the cash-
reserve ratio by 50 basis points at its next policy review on
March 15.  Speculation that the Reserve Bank will loosen monetary
policy is slowing the rupee’s gains. The currency fell 0.1
percent to 49.01 per dollar today, paring its advance for
February to 0.6 percent. The rupee strengthened 7.3 percent last
month, the most since at least 1973.  Companies’ higher funding costs are pushing up the bond
risk of the nation’s borrowers. The average cost of credit-
default swaps on eight local issuers of debt has climbed 116
basis points from a year ago to 339 basis points, according to
CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted
by dealers in privately negotiated markets. The swaps pay face
value in exchange for the underlying debt should a company fail
to adhere to its agreements.  Growth Forecast  The increase in sovereign yields is crimping the return on
 India ’s bonds. Dollar-based investors earned 5.4 percent on the
nation’s securities in the past year, trailing the advance in
eight of 11 debt markets tracked by HSBC Holdings Plc.  The Reserve Bank will cut reserve  requirements  by 50 basis
points next month to ensure that companies have enough funds
needed to support growth in the economy, according to Federal
Bank. Gross domestic product rose 6.3 percent in the three
months through December, the least since the quarter ended March
2009, according to the median estimate of economists in a
Bloomberg survey before government data due on Feb. 29.  “Persistently tight cash conditions have pushed up money-
market rates and are aggravating a slowdown in the economy,”
 Roy Paul , a Mumbai-based deputy general manager of treasury at
Federal Bank, said in an interview on Feb. 24.  To contact the reporters on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  