-- South African Economy Probably Expanded at Faster Pace in Fourth Quarter
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-02-27T12:44:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/south-african-economy-probably-expanded-at-faster-pace-in-fourth-quarter.html
South Africa ’s economy, the largest
on the continent, probably grew at a faster pace in the fourth
quarter as manufacturing rebounded and consumers benefited from
low borrowing costs.  Growth in  gross domestic product  accelerated to an
annualized 3.1 percent from 1.4 percent rate in the third
quarter, according to the median estimate of 14 economists
polled by Bloomberg. Statistics South Africa is scheduled to
publish the data at 11:30 a.m. in Pretoria tomorrow.  Manufacturing (SFPMNSAY) , which makes up 15 percent of the economy,
probably grew for the first time since the first quarter of 2011
as the central bank kept its benchmark interest rate at the
lowest level in more than three decades. Growth is still less
than half the 7 percent expansion the government estimates it
needs to create 5 million new jobs by 2020.  “It is still very messy and erratic,” Dennis Dykes, chief
economist at Johannesburg-based  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED) , said in a
telephone interview. “We aren’t very optimistic about it being
maintained because the underlying factors remain on the negative
side.”  The  Reserve Bank ,  International Monetary Fund  and National
Treasury cut their forecasts for economic growth this year as
the debt crisis worsened in  Europe , cutting demand from a region
that buys about a third of South African manufactured exports.
GDP will expand 2.7 percent this year, down from a previous
estimate of 3.4 percent, Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said in
his budget speech on Feb. 22.  Unemployment Rate  The rand dropped 0.5 percent to 7.6377 per dollar by 2:15
p.m. in Johannesburg today. The currency has strengthened 6
percent this year. The yield on the benchmark rand bond due in
2015 rose two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 6.68
percent.  South Africa is targeting economic growth of 7 percent to
meet a pledge to reduce the  jobless rate  to 14 percent by 2020
from 23.9 percent currently, the highest of 61 nations tracked
by Bloomberg.  The Reserve Bank has kept its  repurchase rate  at 5.5
percent since November 2010 to help support the economy and keep
price pressures in check. Inflation accelerated to 6.3 percent
in January, exceeding the central bank’s target of 3 percent to
6 percent for a third month.  Consumer spending , which makes up two-thirds of expenditure
in the economy, is benefiting from rising wages, low  interest
rates  and an increase in credit, Gina Schoeman, an economist at
 Absa Group Ltd. (ASA) , said in a telephone interview.  “The demand-led sectors are pulling this economy along,”
Schoeman said. “Dynamics in the consumer sector in the last two
years have been very robust.”  Retail sales  rose 8.7 percent in December from a year ago,
compared with 7.2 percent in the previous month, the statistics
office said on Feb. 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  