-- South Korea Delays Bill Challenging Top-Emitter Ranking: Energy
-- B y   S a n g i m   H a n
-- 2012-02-27T13:24:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/south-korea-set-to-vote-on-last-hurdle-for-emissions-trading.html
South Korea delayed approving a cap-
and-trade system to cut  carbon emissions , setting back efforts
to regulate factories and power plants in the fastest-growing
producer of  greenhouse gases  among industrial democracies.  The National Assembly’s Legislative and Judiciary Committee
put off the vote for at least a month, chairman Woo Yoon Keun
told lawmakers today. The bill to establish the third cap-and-
trade system in  Asia  by 2015 will probably be taken up again in
April when the assembly reconvenes, he said.  The surprise postponement was made even after Asia’s
fourth-largest economy offered concessions earlier this month,
agreeing to push back the program’s start by two years to 2015
as the largest companies said it will hurt competitiveness.
That’s the same year chosen as a deadline for signing a global
agreement on emissions by the nearly 200 nations holding climate
talks in December. The accord would take effect as late as 2020.  “There’s a long way to go until the emission trading
system will be settled in the country,” Chung Suh Yong, a
professor at Korea University in  Seoul , said before the delay.  The plan, which got stuck in a logjam of bills today, has
been backed by ruling and opposition parties in a committee vote
on Feb. 8. The ruling Saenuri Party has a majority of 174 seats
in parliament, indicating the legislation will pass its final
hurdle even without opposition support.  Too Many Details  Lawmakers were concerned the carbon bill left too many
details to be resolved after its passage, Shin Jiho, a member of
ruling party, said at today’s hearing.  “While a bill should provide clear guidelines, the
emissions bill is leaving a considerably large portion of those
guidelines” to be determined by government enforcement, he
said. Legislators’ questions prompted Woo to suggest delaying
the vote.  South Korea  is the world’s eighth-largest carbon emitter
based on 2009 figures from the  International Energy Agency . The
country’s greenhouse-gas emissions jumped to about 640 million
metric tons in 2011 from 350 million metric tons in 1990, making
it the fastest-growing emissions source among 34 nations in the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, Bloomberg
New Energy Finance said in Feb. 9 report.  Australia  voted last year to start a cap-and-trade system
in 2015.  New Zealand  already started  emissions trading  in 2009,
and the European Union has operated the world’s biggest
emissions market since 2005.  Voluntary Target  South Korea set a target in November 2009 to cut emissions
by 30 percent from forecast levels by the end of the decade. The
country announced this voluntary target at the United Nations
climate summit in Copenhagen in December 2009.  South Korea imposed reduction goals in October 2011 on 458
polluters starting this year. They range from factories,
buildings and livestock farms that produce at least 25,000 tons
of carbon dioxide a year.  The Federation of Korean Industries and the Korea Chamber
of Commerce & Industry, the nation’s top two business lobbies,
asked the government to delay introducing the plan, saying it
will increase costs and make industry less competitive against
countries that don’t impose charges on emissions.  Kim Tae Yoon, head of the Strategic Industries Team of the
 Federation of Korean Industries , which has 500 members, said
companies will assess whether to invest in reducing carbons or
buy permits on the market.  Slowing the Pace  “The government doesn’t want to shock industries with the
scheme,” Moon Young Seok, vice president of state-run  Korea
Energy Economics Institute , said in an interview before today’s
delay was announced. “It is taking a step forward as planned,
but abating the pace.”  The government is already providing tax and financial
incentives to encourage companies to cut their discharges,
including a supplementary payment, or feed-in tariff, for
renewable energy generated from 2002 until 2011.  These tariffs were replaced with a 2 percent renewable
portfolio standard, starting this year. The country’s 14 power
generators and other energy producers are required to derive a
fixed quota of their energy output from renewable sources,
including solar and wind. The mandatory cap will be raised to 10
percent by 2022.  The Korean government may give companies more than 95
percent of their permits for free for three to six years,
according to the bill. The government has yet to announce any
rules governing compliance, such as how many so called
international offsets would be allowed in the program.  Business as Usual  South Korea would emit 742 million tons in 2020 assuming it
has no program to cut emissions, Andrea Du Rietz, a London-based
analyst at New Energy Finance, said in the note on Feb. 9.  The country would need to cut its 2020 emissions to 520
million tons to meet a 30 percent reduction target, generating
demand for abatement of 775 million metric tons over six years,
Reitz said. Those reductions could come from lower emissions
inside South Korea or spending on offsets, whereby richer
nations wins credits for funding pollution abatement in poorer
countries, Rietz said.  Certified Emission Reductions for December delivery in the
UN’s Clean Development Mechanism rose 0.8 percent to 5.08 euros
($6.81) today on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London . The
credits are down 56 percent from a year ago on concern that the
market is oversupplied.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangim Han in Seoul at 
 sihan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  