-- Rajoy Faces Tougher Budget Task This Year After Spain’s 2011 Deficit Miss
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-02-28T17:58:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/spain-misses-2011-budget-target-by-wider-than-estimated-margin.html
Spain  expects the European Union to
review its budget-deficit target before the presentation of its
2012 spending plan this week, as last year’s slippage hampers
efforts to tackle the euro area’s fourth-biggest shortfall.  “It is expected that once Brussels has knowledge of the
data, it will give the corresponding indication in the coming
days, and that the government will include it in the spending
limit on Friday,” Deputy Minister for Public Administration
Antonio Barreda said during an interview with Radio Cinco in
Madrid today.  Spain will present its spending plan for 2012 on March 2
and is counting on the EU to review its deficit goal of 4.4
percent of gross domestic product in 2012 as it struggles to
rein in overspending amid its second recession since 2009.  Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro yesterday said the
nation’s overall budget deficit came in at 8.5 percent of GDP in
2011, overshooting the government’s previous estimate of about 8
percent and an EU target of 6 percent. Unemployment rose to an
EU record of 23 percent.  “We are going to promote budget stability as soon as
possible with a credible path,” Montoro said. “We are in a
recession and that must be recognized, which means implementing
a budget policy that will lift us out of this recession.”  Unchanged goals would oblige Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s
government, in power since December, to add 25 billion euros
($34 billion) of cuts to a 15 billion-euro package announced on
Dec. 30, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  Assessing Sustainability  The EU is waiting for information from Spain on last year’s
slippage and this year’s budget, EU Economic and Monetary
Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  told lawmakers today at the
European Parliament in Brussels. “We can then assess whether
Spain is taking effective action to ensure structural
sustainability of public finances,” Rehn said.  EU members must respect the 27-nation bloc’s rules on
budget deficits, Olivier Bailly, a spokesman for the EU, told
reporters separately today in Brussels. “We are not talking
about giving more flexibility to any member states when it comes
to fulfilling commitments.”  Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said he’ll explain
Spain’s budget policy and 2011 deficit during the next meeting
of euro-region finance ministers in Brussels on March 1.  “Starting from there, with the commission’s own revision
of growth forecasts, all European countries will start a review
of their stability programs,” de Guindos told reporters in
 Madrid  today. Spain will step up its budget adjustment measures
this year as it remains committed to reducing its deficit, de
Guindos said.  The yield on Spain’s 10-year benchmark bond was little
changed at 5.04 percent and the gap with similar German
maturities widened to 324 basis points from 317 basis points
earlier today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  