-- Sprint to Raise $2 Billion Debt, May Use to Fund Clearwire
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-02-27T23:01:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/sprint-to-raise-2-billion-in-debt-may-use-to-fund-clearwire.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , the third-
largest U.S. wireless operator, said it plans to sell $2 billion
in notes to help pay for refinancing, network upgrades and
possible funding for its wireless partner  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)   Sprint will sell notes due in 2017 and 2020 through a
private placement, according to a statement today. The sale, to
be completed March 1, includes five-year notes at 9.13 percent
and eight-year debt, which will be guaranteed by Sprint units,
at 7 percent, the  Overland Park , Kansas-based company said later
in a separate statement included in a regulatory filing.  Sprint raised $4 billion through a debt offering in
November to help with network spending and financing for
Clearwire. The return trip to  capital markets  shows Sprint is
raising cash to cover the growing costs of upgrading its
wireless network to higher-speed technology and selling mobile
devices that require subsidies, such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone.
Sprint, which has lost money for the last five years, is
struggling to compete against larger rivals AT&T Inc. and
 Verizon Wireless .  MetroPCS Abandoned  The move comes after Sprint’s board voted down a possible
acquisition of the smaller  MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS) , a
person familiar with the plan said last week. The board decided
the stock and cash transaction, which may have cost as much as
$8 billion including debt, would have been too expensive given
the current level of Sprint’s stock price.  Sprint rose  3.2 percent to $2.55 at the close in New York.
The stock has dropped 41 percent in the past 12 months.  The carrier has a four-year $15.5 billion commitment to pay
Apple for the iPhone and in its annual report filed today,
Sprint says it has $29.5 billion in additional payment
commitments though 2017.  Sprint is  graded  B1 with a “negative” outlook by Moody’s
Investors Service and an equivalent B+, also with a “negative”
outlook by  Standard & Poor’s , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The last time Sprint sold eight-year notes was in August
2009, when it issued $1.3 billion of 8.375 percent securities
due in August 2017, Bloomberg data show. The debt was assigned a
Ba2 from Moody’s at the time.  Today’s eight-year debt is expected to have a Ba3 grade and
BB- from S&P, said the person with knowledge of the offering.
The five-year debt, which is not guaranteed, is expected to be
rated B3 by Moody’s and B+ by S&P, the person said.  The securities due August 2017 traded at 98.3 cents on the
dollar to yield 8.78 percent as of 1:01 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  