-- SriLankan Air Plans Asia Expansion as European Tourism Slows
-- B y   A n u s h a   O n d a a t j i e
-- 2012-02-27T10:38:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/srilankan-air-plans-asia-expansion-as-european-tourism-slows.html
SriLankan Airlines Ltd., seeking a
return to profit in two years, plans to focus expansion on Asian
routes as European travelers pare spending on vacations.  “We are taking a cautious approach in  Europe  and an
aggressive one in  Asia ,” Chief Marketing Officer G.T. Jeyaseelan said in a Feb. 23 interview in Colombo. The strategy
is driven by “economic reality,” he said.  The state-owned carrier plans to boost services to cities
including Tokyo, Beijing and  Shanghai  as  China ’s economic growth
helps spur travel demand across the region. By contrast, the
airline may reduce its 12 weekly London flights in off-peak
seasons as a sovereign debt crisis and slower growth deter
Europeans from taking long-distance holidays.  “European tourism growth is slowing down,” Jeyaseelan
said. Arrivals from the U.K., the biggest source of visitors to
 Sri Lanka (SLTRARR)  after  India , were little changed last year at 106,082,
according to the  Sri Lanka  Tourism Development Authority. Visits
from East Asia, including China and  Japan , surged 41 percent to
96,194. Indian  tourism numbers  rose 35 percent to 171,374.  The airline intends to boost more of its  Asian services  to
daily frequencies to make them more cost effective and to help
support the government’s drive to turn Sri Lanka into an
aviation hub, Jeyaseelan said. A step this year will be
increasing Tokyo flights to five a week from four.  Global Alliances  SriLankan will also cooperate with other airlines to expand
its international reach, possibly including joining a global
alliance. The carrier is assessing the three groups and
possibilities, Jeyaseelan said. There are no plans to invest in
other carriers, he said.  Sri Lanka, a tear-shaped island off the coast of India, has
benefited from a pickup in tourism following the end of a 26-
year-long civil war in 2009. The growth has prompted hotel
operators including  Shangri-La Asia Ltd. (69)  and Starwood Hotels &
Resorts Worldwide Inc. to begin building properties on the
island.  Infrastructure and tourism are the key drivers of Sri
Lanka’s growth, according to the Asian Development Bank, which
expects economic expansion of about 8 percent in the “medium
term.”  SriLankan will add an Airbus SAS A320 and an A330 by mid-
year, increasing its fleet to 21, Jeyaseelan said. The carrier
has no plans to sell shares in itself or in any of its units, he
said.  The carrier still expects to make a profit in the year
ending March 2014, even as fuel prices rise, Jeyaseelan said.
The airline has begun a turnaround plan including closing some
overseas offices and working to reduce fuel usage in a bid to
return to profit. It pared losses to 202.3 million rupees ($1.7
million) in the year ended March 31, from 6.03 billion rupees a
year earlier, helped by rising tourism and one-time gains.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anusha Ondaatjie in  Colombo  at 
 anushao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  