-- Stanford Defense Rests Without Calling Financier to Testify
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-02-28T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/stanford-finance-records-culled-by-u-s-incomplete-witness-says.html
R. Allen Stanford opted not to take
the witness stand at his criminal fraud trial in Houston before
his lawyers rested their defense.  Prosecutors said they had no rebuttal witnesses, so U.S.
District Judge David Hittner in Houston yesterday told the jury
to return to the courtroom tomorrow. Lawyers will have two hours
each for closing arguments and instructions to the jury will
take an hour, the judge said.  “The case is over,” Hittner told the jury. Opening
statements were delivered Jan. 24.  Prosecutors have accused Stanford of running a $7 billion
investment fraud and misleading investors about the nature and
oversight of certificates of deposit issued by his Antigua-based
Stanford International Bank Ltd.  Stanford, 61, has maintained his organization had
sufficient holdings to repay investors and was in the midst of
consolidating its disparate entities when he and the bank were
sued by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in February
2009 and their assets seized.  Defense lawyers have also said Stanford’s former finance
chief, James M. Davis, was responsible for day-to-day
operations.  Davis in 2009 pleaded guilty to three felony charges and
testified for the prosecution at the trial, saying he knew
Stanford was committing fraud and didn’t stop it.  Fraud Examiner  The last defense witness was a certified fraud examiner,
 Leonard H. Lyons , who told the court that neither he nor
prosecutors had a complete set of Stanford business records
necessary for making a complete assessment of the companies’
financial condition when the SEC sued.  Lyons, who said he is a former Resolution Trust Co.
investigations chief, testified that the federal government
evidence shared with the defense didn’t include records from
Stanford’s non-U.S. businesses.  He told defense lawyer Robert Scardino he would have needed
that information as an expert to draw a conclusion about the
financial well-being of Stanford’s enterprise. Lyons said the
U.S. government records lacked documentation from Stanford
businesses in Antigua,  Mexico ,  Peru  and  Venezuela .  He also disputed the accuracy of government charts
displayed to jurors that appeared to show the Stanford
organization sustaining mounting losses from 2003 through 2008,
contending they failed to reflect the value of intangible
assets.  ‘Poof’  “Companies have value, they just don’t go away -- poof,”
Lyons said.  The witness, who works for the accounting and auditing firm
Marcum Group, also said he hadn’t had sufficient time to review
all 15,000 boxes of corporate records obtained by the
receivership appointed in the SEC enforcement action.  On cross-examination, he quarreled with prosecutor William
Stellmach, who challenged Lyons’s claim that Stanford had
publicly disclosed more than $2 billion in loans he had taken
from his Antiguan bank.  Lyons said he believed the money was reinvested by Stanford
in other businesses he owned. He also said the lack of complete
corporate records meant neither he nor the government could
fully trace Stanford funds.  The witness also said he was unaware a prior trial witness
had testified that he lost almost $2 million invested with
Stanford that he had unsuccessfully tried to withdraw before the
businesses were seized by the U.S.  Billing Rate  Lyons told the prosecutor that he billed $375 an hour and
said he had logged 1,200 to 1,400 hours on the Stanford case.  He told a defense lawyer that it was his opinion the
government’s case is based on conclusions and speculations.  Outside the courtroom, Stanford’s mother, Sammie, said she
had advised her son to use his own judgment in deciding whether
to take the witness stand.  “I’ve been going through this for three years,” she said.
“It’s never easy.”  The case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-00342, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Houston at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  