-- State Street Investigated by New York, U.S. on Foreign Exchange
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-02-27T18:52:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/state-street-investigated-by-new-york-u-s-attorney-on-foreign-exchange.html
New York ’s attorney general and the
U.S. Attorney’s Office in  Manhattan  are probing foreign exchange
services at  State Street Corp. (STT)  almost five months after suing
 Bank of New York Mellon Corp (BK)  over the same issue.  The two offices “have made inquiries to us about our
indirect foreign exchange execution methods,” the Boston-based
company said today in a filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission. State Street, the third-largest custody bank, has
already been sued by California and Arkansas claiming the
company overcharged public pension funds for some foreign
exchange transactions.  New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  and the U.S.
Attorney’s Office in Manhattan each filed suit in October
against BNY Mellon, the world’s largest custody bank, accusing
the company of defrauding public pension funds of $2 billion
over 10 years. The New York bank also faces suits from Virginia
and  Florida .  Both banks deny wrongdoing and have said they will fight
the suits.  “State Street continues to cooperate with inquiries
regarding our indirect foreign exchange services and will
vigorously defend the litigation that has been commenced against
us,” Carolyn Cichon, a spokeswoman, said today in a telephone
interview.  State Street said in today’s filing it expects the
plaintiffs may seek to recover all or a portion of the company’s
revenue from indirect foreign exchange services, which totaled
$331 million in 2011 and was as high as $462 million in 2008.  “We cannot predict the outcome of any pending proceedings
or whether a court, in the event of an adverse resolution, would
consider our revenue to be the appropriate measure of damages,”
the company said in the filing.  All the cases center on the pricing of small transactions
handled automatically by the custody banks on behalf of pension
funds, a service known as indirect foreign exchange or standing
instruction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  