-- Steady Corn Prices After USDA Forecast Is Bullish, Gartman Says
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2012-02-27T17:39:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/steady-corn-prices-after-usda-forecast-is-bullish-gartman-says.html
Corn futures that held steady last
week after the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  forecast record
domestic production may signal price gains, according to
economist  Dennis Gartman .  Prices gained 0.2 percent on Feb. 24, when the USDA
forecast corn output at 14.27 billion bushels and planting may
total 94 million acres, the highest since 1944. The grain was up
0.3 percent today at $6.4575 a bushel by 11:21 a.m. in  Chicago 
and is little changed this year.  “Those are egregiously bearish numbers,” Gartman wrote
today in his daily Gartman Letter. “Corn futures have held
quite well following that bearish news and as we are wont to
say, a market that shall not fall on bearish news is not
bearish.”  Farm income last year totaled $98.1 billion, the USDA said.
Income is expected to fall to $91.7 billion this year, it said
on Feb. 13. Farmers have built “enormous” amounts of storage
for crops and with the second-highest income on record last year
can afford to hold supplies and wait for prices to rise, said
Gartman, who wrote that he’s “quietly turning bullish.”  “Simply put, it would be possible for America’s farmers to
store nearly all of this year’s corn crop on farm, which of
course won’t happen given that on-farm storage is split between
corn, soybean hard and soft-red winter wheat, sorghum, et al,”
he said. “The pressure to sell grain is falling and their
ability to sit tight and await higher prices is rising.”  U.S. Feedlots  U.S. feedlots bought 2.2 percent less cattle in January,
USDA data show. The U.S. cattle inventory was the smallest since
1952 as of Jan. 1 after ranchers shrank herds as a drought in
the south and southwest scorched pastures. In 2011, the total
number of calves born fell 1.1 percent to 35.31 million from a
year earlier, the lowest since 1950, according to the USDA.  A 45-cent tax credit for each gallon of ethanol made from
the grain blended into gasoline expired on Dec. 31. That may
reduce demand for corn used to make ethanol, Gartman said.  “That would lead one to believe that feed demand shall
fall this year, and so too ethanol demand now that the support
program there is ended,” Gartman said. “Nonetheless, corn is
holding firmly and we are much impressed by that fact. We think
everyone should be.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Deane  at 
 Jdeane3@bloomberg.net . 