-- Sterlite Industries, Sesa Goa Drop on Vedanta Debt Concern: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2012-02-27T11:46:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/sterlite-industries-sesa-goa-drop-on-vedanta-debt-concern-mumbai-mover.html
Sterlite Industries (India) Ltd. (STLT)  and
 Sesa Goa Ltd. (SESA) , which agreed to combine, dropped in Mumbai
trading on concern their finances may be weakened by the debt
they are taking on from parent company  Vedanta Resources Plc. (VED)   Sesa,  India ’s largest iron-ore exporter, slumped 10.1
percent to 203.85 rupees, the most in more than two years, at
the close of trading in Mumbai. Sterlite, the nation’s largest
copper producer, fell 2.5 percent to 115.70 rupees. The key BSE
India  Sensitive Index (SENSES)  fell 2.7 percent. London-listed Vedanta
rose as much as 4.3 percent to 1,564 pence, the highest intraday
level since Aug. 4, and traded at 1,519 pence as of 11:32 a.m.
local time.  Investors will get three Sesa shares for five shares of
Sterlite and Sesa Sterlite, the new company, will absorb $5.9
billion of Vedanta’s debt as part of the merger agreement.
Moody’s Investors Service on Jan. 12 cut Vedanta’s bond rating
and maintained a negative outlook following the company’s $8.67
billion acquisition of Cairn India Ltd. in December, which
pushed the total debt of the group to $9.65 billion.  “There’s only one clear winner -- parent Vedanta -- as it
gets free of the debt it took to buy Cairn India and fund the
spending for unit Vedanta Aluminium,” said  Niraj Shah , an
analyst at Fortune Equity Brokers India Ltd. in Mumbai. “The
merger is negative for Sesa and even for Sterlite.”  Sesa will absorb Sterlite in an all-share deal, London-
based Vedanta, controlled by billionaire Anil Agarwal, said in a
Feb. 25 statement. Vedanta will transfer for a token $1 its 38.8
percent holding in Cairn India to Sesa Sterlite, which will hold
58.9 percent of Cairn India.  Aluminum, Cairn India  Vedanta Aluminium Ltd., the Indian aluminum unit in which
Vedanta owns a 70.5 percent stake, and Madras Aluminium Co. will
also be consolidated into the new company, according to the
statement. The transfer of Cairn India shares won’t be
conditional on the merger of Sesa, Sterlite, Vedanta Aluminium
and Madras Aluminium, according to the statement.  Vedanta’s debt  will fall 61 percent to $3.8 billion and the
debt-service cost will be reduced by $300 million for the year
ending March 31, 2013, the company said in a presentation after
announcing the merger. Cairn India’s debt, which bears an annual
interest cost of 5.2 percent, will continue to be guaranteed by
Vedanta, Group Chief Financial Officer Tarun Jain said Feb. 25
at a media conference in Mumbai.  Sesa Sterlite will have a net debt of $7.5 billion and an
average interest cost of 8 percent, Jain said.  Capital spending 
will be $6 billion in the next three years, he said.  The merged entity, in which Vedanta will hold a 58.3
percent stake, will help save $200 million annually, Navin Agarwal said on the conference call. The merger will probably be
completed this year, he said.  “Sesa Sterlite will be one of the largest global
diversified natural resources majors,” Chairman  Anil Agarwal 
said Feb. 25 in the e-mailed statement. “This transaction is a
natural evolution, leading to simplification of the group’s
structure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  