-- Stocks in Switzerland Retreat to a Two-Week Low; UBS, Credit Suisse Fall
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-02-27T16:45:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/stocks-in-switzerland-retreat-for-second-day-banks-fall.html
Swiss stocks  dropped to a two-week
low after the Group of 20 nations rebuffed calls from Europe to
boost the International Monetary Fund’s resources to fight the
region’s debt crisis.  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the country’s largest
lenders, slid at least 0.9 percent.  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the world’s
biggest operator of offshore drilling rigs, climbed 4.6 percent
after fourth-quarter sales beat analyst estimates.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI) , a measure of Switzerland’s biggest
and most actively traded companies, retreated 0.7 percent to
6,143.92 at the close in Zurich, its lowest level since Feb. 10.
The gauge has still advanced 3.5 percent this year as the
 European Central Bank  increased lending to banks and U.S.
economic reports topped forecasts. The broader Swiss Performance
Index added less than 0.1 percent today.  “Doubt is weighing on equity markets,” said John Plassard, director at Louis Capital Markets SA in Geneva.
“Investors know  Germany  has always shown resistance to a higher
firewall and that causes some tension.”  The SMI dropped last week on investor concern about
Greece’s ability to implement austerity measures needed for a
second rescue package.  G-20 officials told the euro area’s political leaders to
come up with more money before they consider lending outside
support. They put the onus on Germany, already the biggest
national contributor to the bailouts, to deepen rescue efforts.  German Vote  As the German Parliament approved a second Greek aid
package today, Chancellor Angela Merkel’s government must now
decide whether to back plans at a March 1-2 European Union
summit to combine the rescue funds and create a total capacity
of 750 billion euros ($1 trillion).  The world economy is “not out of the danger zone” amid
fragile financial systems, high public and private debt and
rising oil prices, International Monetary Fund Managing Director
 Christine Lagarde  said this weekend.  UBS and Credit Suisse fell 1 percent to 12.75 Swiss francs
and 0.9 percent to 24.70 francs, respectively.  Swiss Life
Holding AG (SLHN)  slipped 0.7 percent to 101.10 francs.  Logitech International SA (LOGN) , the world’s biggest maker of
computer mice, slumped 3.9 percent to 7.71 francs as a gauge of
European technology companies was among the worst companies of
the 19 industry groups in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Transocean added 4.6 percent to 48 francs as fourth-quarter
revenue rose 8 percent to $2.4 billion, topping the average
analyst estimate of $2.3 billion. The company also said it won
$1.4 billion in new contracts for the period Oct. 17 to Feb. 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  