-- Suspended AIJ Lured Nagano Pension Fund With Nomura Pedigree, 7% Returns
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2012-02-28T02:47:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/suspended-aij-lured-nagano-pension-fund-with-nomura-pedigree-7-returns.html
A Japanese pension fund said it
invested with  AIJ Investment Advisors Co. , whose business has
been suspended by regulators, because it was run by a former
 Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  manager and offered 7 percent returns.  “We believed in such high returns as we were assured that
the business is being led by a former Nomura branch manager,”
Toshiro Katsuno, a board member of  Koshinetsu Printers
Association Pension Fund , said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “People become blind in front of such a big name.”  Katsuno said the association manages about 10 billion yen
($123 million) in pension assets for 3,000 print workers in
Nagano, central Japan. It began investing with AIJ in 2005 and
still has “a significant portion” of assets with the firm, he
said, declining to specify how much. Kazuhiko Asakawa, president
of Tokyo-based AIJ, used to work at Nomura,  Japan ’s biggest
securities company.  The  Financial Services Agency  on Feb. 24 ordered AIJ, which
had 185.3 billion yen of client money as of March, to stop
business for a month as the regulator investigates possible
losses at its  hedge funds . That has led to the biggest probe in
the history of Japan’s fund industry, as the FSA examines 263
asset managers nationwide.  Nikkei Options  AIJ told investors one of its funds returned 241 percent
since it started in May 2002 by mainly trading Nikkei 225
options, according to a newsletter obtained by Bloomberg News.  “This is fraud and should be a criminal case,” Katsuno
said. To seek information, he visited AIJ and its brokerage, ITM
Securities Co., which are located in the same building in
Tokyo’s Nihonbashi district, on Feb. 24 when the FSA announced
the suspension. He said he was unable to meet with Asakawa.  Neither AIJ, Asakawa nor ITM have been accused of
wrongdoing.  Asakawa went to Nagano in June 2010, along with ITM
Securities founder Hideaki Nishimura, and made a presentation to
executives of the pension fund including Katsuno to explain the
performance of AIJ’s funds. The association invested in three of
them, including one called AIM Millennium, Katsuno said.  Asakawa isn’t the only former Nomura employee at the  fund
manager . Shimpei Matsuki, chief investment officer at AIJ, was
one of three ex-Nomura executives who received suspended
sentences in 1999 for paying off a corporate extortionist who
threatened to disrupt the brokerage’s 1995 shareholder meeting.  Left Nomura  “The AIJ persons quoted in the media reports as ex-Nomura
left Nomura more than a decade ago,” Keiko Sugai, a spokeswoman
for the Tokyo-based bank, said in an interview. “Nomura did not
participate in the wrongdoings reported by the media.”  Calls to AIJ reached an automated recording that didn’t
take messages. Asakawa couldn’t be reached for comment. Yasuo
Tsuneyoshi, a manager at ITM Securities, declined to comment.  Japanese regulators will begin their nationwide probe of
asset management firms tomorrow, Financial Services Minister
 Shozaburo Jimi  said at a news conference in Tokyo today. Any
action against AIJ depends on the outcome of the investigation
being pursued by the Securities and Exchange Surveillance
Commission, the financial watchdog under the FSA, Jimi said.  Some 539,650 subscribers to AIJ’s funds may be affected by
possible losses, according to a statement by the labor ministry.  AIJ’s AIM Millennium fund returned 3.9 percent in the six
months through September 2011, according to the four-page
October 2011 newsletter in Japanese. That compares with an 11
percent decline in the  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  and 12 percent
retreat in the broader Topix Index.  “We found him to be a confident and breezy talker,”
Katsuno said of Asakawa, referring to his visit to Nagano almost
two years ago. “We want the regulators and authorities to
investigate fully and take appropriate measures.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in  Tokyo  at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  