-- Rock-Heating for Oil Pits Shell Against Environmentalists
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-02-27T20:42:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/sweating-rocks-for-oil-pits-shell-against-u-s-environmentalists.html
A proposal to tap the world’s
largest oil-shale deposits in the western U.S. by heating rocks
until petroleum sweats out has become the latest election-year
conflict over energy policy.  Companies including  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDS/A) ,
an Estonia utility called Eesti Energia AS, and a joint venture
of Genie Energy Ltd. and  France ’s  Total SA (FP) , are seeking to tap
into as much as 4.29 trillion barrels of oil. Much of it is on
lands controlled by the federal government in  Colorado ,  Wyoming 
and Utah.  “We’re not asking for any special treatment,” Rikki
Hrenko, chief executive officer of Eesti Energia’s U.S. unit,
 Enefit American Oil , said in an interview. “We’re asking to be
able to proceed as any other industrial development would.”  The U.S.  Bureau of Land Management  this month proposed
reducing access for research and development of  oil shale  in the
region by three quarters, to 461,965 acres, to protect water
supplies. That prompted the Republican-led House on Feb. 16 to
pass legislation that would require the agency to conduct at
least five commercial lease sales in the oil-shale region by the
end of 2015.  Senator  Orrin Hatch , a Utah Republican, offered similar
language as an amendment to the Senate transportation bill on
Feb. 17.  Prices Rise  The dispute joins a growing number of conflicts centered on
 energy policy  as the price of oil and gasoline have both risen
and become issues in the presidential campaign. President  Barack Obama  last month rejected an application to build a pipeline
connecting Canadian  oil sands  with refineries on the U.S. Gulf
Coast, which prompted efforts in Congress to override the
decision.  The administration says it wants to ensure oil-shale
production, like fracking for natural gas, poses limited risk to
water resources.  “Because there are still many unanswered questions about
the technology, water use, and impacts of potential commercial-
scale oil shale development, we are proposing a prudent and
orderly approach,”  Bob Abbey , the director of the Bureau of
Land Management, said in an e-mail on Feb. 24. “If oil shale is
to be viable on a commercial scale, we must take a common-sense
approach that encourages research and development first.”  Oil Rally  Republicans are pushing higher production to help lower
gasoline prices, create jobs and add revenue to the  U.S.
Treasury  from royalties.  A rally in oil and gasoline prices may boost oil-shale
producers. Eesti Energia said its oil production in  Estonia  is
profitable when oil trades at $60 a barrel, and would be “a
little higher” in the U.S. Crude averaged $96.77 on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange  in the past 12 months.  The average price for regular gasoline, at a record for
this time of the year, spurred Obama to reiterate support for
all energy sources, including oil, natural gas, solar, wind and
biofuels.  Eesti Energia, which hired Washington-based lobbying firm
 Allen D. Freemyer Esq PC  after buying leases in Utah in 2011,
increased spending on lobbying about 50 percent to $30,000 in
the fourth quarter, according to Senate records.  Oil shale doesn’t contain oil but kerogen -- a low-energy
solid that must be heated before it turns into oil and bleeds
from the rock.  Estonian Electricity  Eesti Energia, a state-owned company in Estonia, developed
technology that heats rock to about 900 degrees Fahrenheit (480
degrees Celsius), or almost five times the boiling point of
water, to extract the oil. The Tallinn-based power-plant owner
provides the Baltic nation with most of its electricity by
crushing and heating oil shale to generate power.  Eesti Energia, which holds federal leases, plans to start
producing 25,000 barrels a day in 2020 using leases with private
landowners in  Utah . The company will mine the rock, crush it and
then extract oil using high heat. The Estonian company’s
investment may reach $5 billion, Hrenko said.  American Shale Oil LLC  is a venture of Genie Energy and
Total. It plans a pilot program this year on 150 acres of leased
federal lands, spending as much as $25 million over two or three
years in a region that may contain 10 billion barrels of oil,
according to William Ulrey, a  Newark ,  New Jersey , spokesman for
the project. The extraction technique, which heats the rock
while still in the ground, may be at commercial production rates
in five years at earliest, he said.  Production may reach about 100,000 barrels a day during
commercial operations, according to a Web-based presentation.  Deterring Investment  The Bureau of Land Management’s reduction of acreage
available for research and development is hurting further
expansion, because the industry still needs a lot of testing to
reduce the environmental impact of the production, Ulrey said.  “These changes deter needed investment in oil-shale
technologies, and ultimately undermine the effort to gain
American energy independence,” he said.  As the production plans are so far into the future, the
 Natural Resources Defense Council  called it a “nonexistent
industry” with a “19th century technology.”  “Oil shale seems to be a really bad bet for the energy
future,” Bobby McEnaney, a council land-policy analyst, said in
an interview. “ We already know that other energy sources out
there are cheaper, quicker and viable, such as wind.”  The bill passed by the House is H.R. 3408.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  