-- Syrian Forces Shell Towns in North After Assad Says Voters Back Referendum
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k   a n d   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2012-02-28T16:15:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/syrian-forces-shell-towns-in-north-after-assad-says-voters-back-referendum.html
Syrian forces bombarded cities where
opposition is concentrated as President Bashar al-Assad issued a
decree enacting a constitution that he says will introduce
political pluralism after almost a year of violence.  Assad, facing international pressure to end his crackdown
on dissent, is seeking to affirm his mandate as  Syria ’s leader
following a Feb. 26 referendum. The European Union, which
dismissed the vote’s validity, decided yesterday to tighten
sanctions. The official Syrian Arab News Agency said 89 percent
of voters backed the charter, which promises democratic
elections while limiting presidents to two seven-year terms.  “Assad can’t save the regime with such for-show-only steps
because the protests absolutely won’t stop,” Oytun Orhan, an
analyst at the Center for Middle Eastern Strategic Studies in
Ankara, said by telephone today. “The Assad regime has no other
chance than suppressing the demonstrations by force because it
no longer has any legitimacy among the masses.”  Shelling of the central city of Homs has continued since
the beginning of the month and the army has intermittently
attacked provinces including Idlib in the north, according to
reports by television channels including  Al Arabiya  and  Al
Jazeera . Syrian forces killed 60 people today, and yesterday’s
death toll was 138, Al Arabiya said.  ‘Must’ Change  Syria “must” change and the country won’t stabilize
otherwise, Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki told the Saudi
Okaz newspaper in an interview e-mailed by his office.  “A national unity government must be formed, freedoms must
be given, an impartial election under United Nations and Arab
supervision must be held and a national council should be
elected to approve the constitution,” said Maliki, whose
government abstained from the Arab League vote in November to
impose sanctions against Assad.  Tunisia is ready to grant Assad and his family asylum “if
this proposal will contribute to stop the bloodshed and end the
killing of Syrians,” a spokesman for the north African nation’s
presidency, Adnen Mnasser, said today in an e-mailed statement.  At least 68 corpses of people who sought to flee the
fighting in the Baba Amr district have been recovered, according
to the Observatory for Human Rights in Syria. About 8,500 people
have died in Assad’s crackdown against the protests that began
last March, the Arab Organization for Human Rights says.  ‘Rapidly Deteriorating’  “My office has received disturbing reports of a rapidly
deteriorating human-rights and humanitarian situation,” UN High
Commissioner for Human Rights Navi Pillay told the UN’s Human
Rights Council in Geneva today. “Syrian military and security
forces have launched massive campaigns of arrest, arbitrarily
detaining thousands of protesters, as well as activists and
others suspected of anti-government activities.”  Pillay  called on  Assad to cooperate with the international
community, provide “unhindered” access to Syria and release
all political and arbitrary detainees. Referring Syria to the
 International Criminal Court  to stop the violence “will be a
step in the right direction,” she said.  Faisal Khabbaz Hamwi, Syria’s ambassador to the UN, left
the Geneva meeting after making a speech in which he said the
session was aimed at attacking his country under the pretext of
humanitarian needs.  Teams from the Syrian Red Crescent were able to enter Baba
Amr yesterday, although their efforts to evacuate western
journalists failed, Al Arabiya reported, citing a person it
didn’t identify.  Journalists Escape  British journalist Paul Conroy escaped to Lebanon with the
help of the opposition Free Syrian Army, according to the Local
Coordination Committees of Syria. Edith Bouvier, the French
journalist injured in Homs last week, was also evacuated to
Lebanon, Al Arabiya reported, citing French President  Nicolas Sarkozy .  The EU said it will introduce new measures to pressure
Assad’s regime that include freezing the central bank’s assets,
banning precious-metals trading with the country and prohibiting
cargo-only flights. The sanctions build on an oil embargo
approved in September. French President Nicolas Sarkozy, who is
campaigning for re-election, said  France  would press Russia and
 China  to drop their opposition to UN sanctions against Syria.  Venezuelan Oil  Countering the EU measures,  Venezuela ’s Oil Minister  Rafael Ramirez  said yesterday that his country will continue providing
fuel to Syria, which he described as “a country under siege.”
State-run Petroleos de Venezuela SA sent two cargoes of diesel
to Syria and “shipments will continue as they are needed,”
Ramirez said.  Syria’s army has intensified attacks since a resolution
supported by the  Arab League  aimed at installing a transitional
government, to be followed by elections, was vetoed at the UN
Security Council by Russia and China on Feb. 4.  Saudi Arabia  and Qatar endorse arming the Syrian
opposition, raising the prospect of a widening conflict after
the “Friends of Syria” group met in Tunis on Feb. 24 to
pressure Assad to step down.  More than 60 soldiers defected near Idlib today, the Local
Coordination Committees said on its Facebook Inc. page. Army
troops raided a neighborhood in the coastal city of Latakia in
search of seven defectors from the navy, Al Arabiya reported.  The opposition Free Syrian Army has 40,000 members, some of
whom fled Assad’s forces, such as former Colonel Riad al-As’ad,
who formed the group after entering a refugee camp in  Turkey .
Assad blames the unrest on “armed terrorist” groups.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net ;
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  