-- U.K. Government Close to Opening 1 Billion Pound CCS Competition
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-02-27T18:00:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/u-k-government-close-to-opening-1-billion-pound-ccs-competition.html
The U.K. government is almost ready
to open a contest for 1 billion pounds ($1.6 billion) in funds
that would back carbon capture and storage technology, Energy
Minister  Charles Hendry  said at a conference in London today.  “The U.K. government is taking forward a carbon capture
and storage delivery program with 1 billion pounds of capital
funding to support a portfolio of commercially focused
projects,” Hendry said. He aims for the projects to be
commercially deployed in the 2020s.  The government is touting the technology as key to meeting
European Union clean energy goals because it sequesters
emissions from fossil fuels, allowing coal- and gas-fired plants
to keep providing a baseload of electricity along with
intermittent sources such as wind and solar.  The  International Energy Agency  says 3,400 plants using CCS
technology are needed by 2050 in order to meet the goal of
cutting global  carbon emissions  in half.  The scope of the new CCS program is still being developed
and will be announced in the “very near future,” Hendry said.
The government is making final adjustments to criteria detailing
the program in the coming weeks.  Decisions Due  Decisions on which projects to support will follow in the
next six to nine months, aligning U.K. policies with funds from
the European Commission, he said.  The program will be “more comprehensive and more all-
embracing” than the government’s support for  Iberdrola SA (IBE) ’s
carbon capture and storage project at Longannet in  Scotland ,
which collapsed in October because of the costs associated with
the age of the plant.  “Our vision is for a new world-leading U.K. CCS industry
in the 2020s, an industry that can compete on costs with other
low carbon technologies,” he said. Hendry also said the
government expects to invest about 125 million pounds in CCS
research and development programs by 2015.  The U.K. Department of Energy and Climate Change  published 
details in the Official Journal of the European Union on Feb. 24
of its “carbon capture and storage commercialization program.”
It outlined contracts available for a CCS project including
research and development, gas storage, operation of a power
plant and engineering work.  “The contract or contracts collectively shall contribute
to demonstrating the viability on a commercial scale of  carbon
capture  and storage technology,” DECC said in the notice. The
document said DECC aims for projects to start demonstrating CCS
by 2016 to 2020. Interested groups have to register by April 13.  The notice is not the official start of the process, a
spokesman at DECC said today by phone. It notifies interested
parties that the selection process will start soon.  The 1 billion pounds of funding won’t be enough to support
four full-scale CCS projects the government has said it wants,
though it could help more than one, Hendry said during the
conference. The government is hoping to gain support from other
investors and has had expressions of interest from overseas
sovereign wealth funds, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in  London  at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  