-- U.K. to Halt Banking Tax-Avoidance Schemes, Treasury Says
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 2012-02-27T22:36:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/u-k-acts-to-halt-banking-tax-avoidance-schemes-treasury-says.html
The U.K. government acted to stop
the use of two “aggressive”  tax-avoidance  schemes disclosed by
a bank, ensuring the payment of more than 500 million pounds
($790 million) in tax, the Treasury said.  The schemes were designed to work around laws introduced in
the past to block similar attempts at tax avoidance, the
Treasury in London said in an e-mailed  statement  today. It
didn’t identify the bank.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  is the lender, the Financial Times reported
today, citing people familiar with the case. Barclays doesn’t
agree that the amount at stake is as much as 500 million pounds,
according to the people, the newspaper reported. Barclays
declined to comment, the Financial Times said. Leigh Bruce, a
spokesman for the bank in London, didn’t respond to a message
left after normal business hours by Bloomberg News.  The Treasury said the first plan sought to ensure that the
commercial profit to a bank from a buyback of its own debt was
not subject to  corporation tax . The government will bring in
legislation that will also act retrospectively to block use of
the scheme. The second involved authorized investment funds and
aimed to convert non-taxable income into an amount carrying a
tax credit in an attempt to secure repayment of tax that wasn’t
paid, the department said.  “The government wants to ensure that the tax system is
fair for all and we will not allow those who seek to benefit
from this aggressive avoidance to get an unfair advantage,”
Treasury minister David Gauke said in the statement. “We do not
take today’s action lightly, but the potential tax loss from
this scheme and the history of previous abuse in this area mean
that this is a circumstance where the decision to change the law
with full retrospective effect is justified.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eddie Buckle in  London  at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  