-- U.S. Starts Military Drills With S. Korea as North Warns of Confrontation
-- B y   R o s e   K i m
-- 2012-02-27T03:32:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/u-s-starts-military-drills-with-s-korea-as-north-warns-of-confrontation.html
The U.S. and South  Korea  began
annual military drills over the objections of  North Korea , which
called the exercises a violation of its sovereignty that could
lead to confrontation.  “The war drills are an unpardonable infringement upon the
sovereignty and dignity” of North Korea, the official Korean
Central News Agency said today in an editorial. “The army and
people of the DPRK are fully ready to fight a war,” the
editorial said, referring to the country’s official name, the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.  The comments came two days after new North Korean leader
Kim Jong Un ordered his military, the world’s fourth-biggest, to
“make a powerful retaliatory strike” if the country’s
territory is violated. The “Key Resolve” exercises that began
today include 2,100 American personnel and will last until March
9, U.S. military spokesman Kim Yong Kyu said by phone.  South Korea  held live-fire naval drills in disputed waters
on Feb. 20 and temporarily evacuated residents from nearby
islands after North Korean warnings raised concerns of a repeat
of an attack on a South Korean island in 2010 that killed four
people. Kim’s regime has dismissed overtures from South Korean
President  Lee Myung Bak  for bilateral dialogue.  U.S.-North Korea talks in Beijing last week yielded “a
little bit of progress,” according to U.S. special
representative  Glyn Davies . The meeting was the first of its
kind since Kim Jong Un became head of the totalitarian, nuclear-
armed state following the death of his father,  Kim Jong Il .
North Korea backed out of six-nation talks aimed at getting it
to abandon its nuclear weapons program in 2009.  Rocket Launchers  North Korea upgraded its long-range multiple rocket
launchers and deployed some of them, Yonhap News said today,
citing an unidentified South Korean government official. The
country may unveil the launchers during a military parade on
April 15, the 100th birthday of North Korea’s founder,  Kim Il
Sung , the report said.  The United Nations Command Military Armistice Commission
notified North Korea about the specifics of the drill on Jan.
27, according to an e-mailed statement from the U.S. forces in
Korea.  The two Koreas remain technically at war after their
1950-1953 conflict ended without a peace treaty.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rose Kim in Seoul at 
 rkim76@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  