-- U.S. Water Systems Face Credit Stress on Repair Needs, Supply, S&P Says
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-02-27T18:13:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/u-s-water-systems-face-credit-stress-on-repair-needs-supply-s-p-says.html
U.S. public-water systems, about 85
percent-owned by municipalities, face credit risks as costs rise
from a failure to invest in infrastructure and as demand
outpaces supply,  Standard & Poor’s  said.  Water systems will need to spend about $335 billion over
the next two decades to comply with regulations, more than
double a 2002 estimate, according to the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency, S&P said in a report released today. The U.S.
has 52,873 community systems, according to the EPA, S&P said.  “Many municipalities have not initiated financing for the
upkeep of their facilities because of deteriorating balance
sheets and burgeoning deficits,” Aneesh Prabhu and Manish Consul, New York-based S&P analysts, said in the report.  “Given the currently low  interest rates , we think
deferring such spending is a lost opportunity,” said the
analysts, who characterized water systems as “cash cows” for
municipalities.  Yields on 20-year general-obligation municipal bonds
touched 3.6 percent the week ended Jan. 19, according to a  Bond
Buyer index , the lowest since 1967.  Water systems facing the most imbalance between supply and
demand are in the Colorado River region,  California ,  Nevada  and
 Texas (STOTX1) , which had a record drought last year, S&P said.  Scarcity forces utilities to seek more expensive sources,
such as desalination and wastewater reuse, the analysts said.
That means higher prices so revenue covers costs, they said.  “Evidence is mounting that water stress is increasing,”
the analysts wrote. “Water prices in the U.S. will inevitably
have to rise.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  