-- U.S. Governors Have Few Answers as Cities Face Bankruptcy Risk
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-02-27T05:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/u-s-governors-have-few-answers-as-cities-teeter-on-brink-of-bankruptcy.html
U.S. governors of states where
municipalities filed for bankruptcy say there was little they
could have done, even as cities such as  Stockton (3654MF) ,  California ,
crack under continuing fiscal pressures.  Stockton, a Central Valley agricultural center with a
population of 292,000, this week may take the first steps toward
becoming the most populous U.S. city to file for bankruptcy, and
will consider defaulting on $2 million of debt payments,
officials have said.  California (STOCA1)  Governor  Jerry Brown  said
yesterday he wasn’t prepared to discuss the situation.  “I want to see what exactly there is,” Brown said in an
interview at the National Governors Association meeting in
Washington. “They’ve started a process, and that process will
continue to proceed, and hopefully the city and the creditors
will find some reasonable accommodation.”  While an improving U.S. economy is helping boost revenue
for states, cities face declining aid and a drop in the
property-tax take since the housing crash. Cities under fiscal
stress are trying to avoid bankruptcy and bolster their
finances, including Pontiac,  Michigan , which abolished its
police and  Cleveland , which demolished thousands of condemned
structures to preserve property values. Such actions aren’t
always sufficient.  Unlucky Number  The nation had 13 municipal bankruptcies last year,  James Spiotto , head of the bankruptcy practice at the Chicago-based
law firm Chapman & Cutler, said in a telephone interview. They
included a record $4.1 billion filing by Jefferson County,
 Alabama (STOAL1) , as well as Boise County,  Idaho (STOID1) ;  Central Falls ,  Rhode
Island (STORI1) ; and Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania (STOPA1) , an effort later thrown out
of court. The others were special-purpose districts and public-
benefit corporations.  Jefferson County filed in November in a case tied to a
botched sewer-system refinancing. County, state officials, a
court-appointed receiver and bondholders failed to implement an
agreement to cut debt, increase rates and have the  Alabama 
Legislature bolster county finances.  Governor Robert Bentley, a Republican, yesterday declined
to discuss the case, and said he encouraged the county not to
file. Alabama, he said, can do little for the county that
encompasses Birmingham, whose 212,000 residents make it the
state’s largest city and economic engine.  Gave His All  “We did everything we could do,” Bentley said. “They’re
going to have to come up with a local solution, and they’re
working on that.”  County officials have said they can’t escape bankruptcy
without restoring or replacing a wage tax that a court stuck
down. Under Alabama custom, such a measure needs unanimous
approval from state lawmakers that represent a municipality.
Such a bill died in June, blocked by a Republican senator.  Rhode Island  Governor Lincoln Chafee, an independent, said
he’s concerned about the impact of the bankruptcy of Central
Falls, and identified five other municipalities in distress:
Providence, East Providence, Woonsocket, West Warwick and
Pawtucket.  “It’s a real crisis in Rhode Island,” he said in an
interview at the association meeting, which ends today.  Central Falls (1058MF) , the state’s smallest city, with about 19,000
residents, entered bankruptcy in August after property values
plummeted and it was overwhelmed by pension liabilities.  Chafee blamed the recession and previous administration for
cutting state aid and “leaving cities and towns to fend for
themselves.” Whether those cities join Central Falls depends on
the Legislature’s adopting changes to local pension plans,
including allowing the suspension of cost-of-living adjustments
for retirees, he said.  Eaten Alive  Harrisburg (9661MF) , a city of about 49,500 that is  Pennsylvania ’s
capital, is in receivership after being driven into insolvency
last year by financing an overhaul and expansion of a municipal
incinerator that doesn’t generate enough revenue to cover its
debt. Governor Tom Corbett said he hopes that by next year,
“we’d be on a good course to get Harrisburg back where they
need to be.”  Corbett, a Republican, said in an interview that he doesn’t
expect the state to intervene in any municipality this year,
though states and local governments must control pensions.  They must “get those costs in line so that we aren’t
spending a huge portion of our general fund revenues -- and each
municipality the same thing -- just taking care of the past
obligations,” he said.  Michigan (STOMI1) ’s first-term Republican Governor  Rick Snyder 
sought a law last year expanding the powers of emergency
managers over city finances. Snyder said he hopes not to use it
in  Detroit (9845MFUS) , where he appointed a review team in December.  Lousy Experiences  “We want to work collaboratively in partnership with our
local jurisdictions,” he said. “Bankruptcy would not be a
positive experience in any regard. The track record’s not good
for municipalities in particular.”  While 2011’s bankruptcies were “extreme cases,” cities
face pressures from a somnolent national economy and have few
places left to cut, Naomi Richman, managing director of public
finance at Moody’s Investors Service, said in a telephone
interview. The ratings company’s outlook for U.S. local
governments remains negative in 2012 for the fourth straight
year, it said in a Feb. 1 report.  Municipalities that file for bankruptcy pay a high price in
the cost and delays of litigation, and the example of Vallejo,
California, which emerged from bankruptcy last year with a
skeletal workforce, should be a motivator, Spiotto said.  “It cries out to everyone, the municipal elected
officials, the workers and their unions, and the taxpayers, to
find a way of reasoning together,” Spiotto said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in  Washington  at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  