-- U.S. High Court Permits Suit on Investing Racketeering Profit
-- B y   B o b   D r u m m o n d
-- 2012-02-27T15:04:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/u-s-high-court-permits-suit-on-investing-racketeering-profit.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  allowed a New
York City steel products retailer to proceed with a federal
racketeering lawsuit claiming that a competitor gained an
illegal advantage by investing criminal proceeds in a business.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, which has fought to restrict
the use of a federal racketeering laws in corporate conflicts,
had urged justices to block that sort of claim. Letting the case
proceed “would enable competitors who do not succeed in the
marketplace to harass their rivals” via the courtroom, the
Washington-based business organization said in a brief.  Ideal Steel Supply Corp. filed suit under the Racketeer
Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act alleging that a rival
company, National Steel Supply Inc., used money from a tax-fraud
scheme to open a competing store that damaged its business. The
justices today declined to hear an appeal by National seeking to
block the lawsuit.  The racketeering law, known as RICO, permits lawsuits
seeking triple damages associated with conspiracies involving a
pattern of criminal activity. Originally targeted at organized
crime, the law’s penalties have made it a weapon in more garden-
variety business disputes.  The New York-based 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals said
Ideal can proceed to trial with a claim that closely held
National. illegally boosted its business and profit for years by
failing to collect sales tax from customers who paid with cash
at a store in Queens. National used the ill-gotten gains to
start a store in the Bronx, where closely held Ideal previously
had a local monopoly on its niche-market products, according to
the lawsuit.  The Supreme Court, without comment, declined today to
consider Nation’s appeal of that ruling.  Family Feud  The case continues a long-running family feud: the Brancato
and Anza families who own Ideal and National are in-laws and
cousins in addition to being business rivals.  The suit, filed in 2002, has already reached the nation’s
highest court once before.  In 2006, the  high court  ruled that Ideal couldn’t sue on
the grounds that it lost profits because National, by illegally
failing to collect sales taxes, was able to attract customers by
undercutting its competitor’s prices. The court said there are
many reasons why customers may shop at one store over another
and, in order to sue under RICO, a company must show a more
direct, or “proximate,” connection between alleged fraud and
damage to its business.  Return Trip  On its return trip, the case involved a different legal
justification, using language in the statute allowing claims
about investments made with racketeering proceeds.  Ideal says that, although the firms had competing stores in
Queens, it was the only company selling its steel products in
the Bronx until 2000, when National opened shop in that borough.
Without illegal profit from untaxed cash sales in Queens, Ideal
says National wouldn’t have been able to start the competing
location.  “National used crime proceeds to create a new Bronx
business siphoning sales from Ideal, its sole rival,” Ideal
said in its high court brief.  National said the appeals court’s ruling “provides a road
map” for harassment suits “by inefficient businesses against
their more successful competitors” and misuses the RICO law as
a weapon to discourage competition that benefits consumers.  The case is Anza v. Ideal Steel Supply Corp., 11-659.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Drummond in Washington at 
 bdrummond@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  