-- U.S. Agribusiness Optimism Up From November in Industry Survey
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-02-27T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/u-s-agribusiness-optimism-up-from-november-in-industry-survey.html
U.S. agricultural businesses are
more optimistic about their economic situation than in November,
according to a survey-based index produced by industry
researcher and publisher  DTN/The Progressive Farmer .  Farmers, veterinarians and sellers of seed, chemicals, feed
and machinery gave their economic circumstances an index score
of 111.1 as of mid-February, up from 100.2 in November, DTN said
today in a statement. The result was down from 113.2 a year
earlier. Eighty-seven percent of respondents expected their
profitability a year from now to be little changed or better,
while 13 percent expect it to be worse.  Farm profits will fall 6.5 percent to $91.7 billion this
year from last year’s record, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture 
said Feb. 13 in a report. Still, agribusinesses don’t expect a
crash in the farm economy even as income growth slows, said
Katie Micik, an analyst at DTN, a unit of Madrid-based  Telvent
GIT SA. (TLVT)   Years of record and near-record profits mean farmers may be
more willing to invest in machinery and inputs, Micik said.
“You’ve got money to buy a tractor, or you have more to pay for
fertilizer,” she said. Unlike the November survey, conducted
shortly after MF Global Holdings Ltd. declared bankruptcy Oct.
31 and left farmers nationwide with missing investment money
that may never be recovered, producers now are focused on
getting crops in the ground, she said.  “Pre-planting, everyone is hopeful,” she said.  The report is based on a survey of 100 agribusiness
professionals conducted Jan. 30-Feb. 3, before planting begins
in Farm-Belt states. The company conducts its surveys  three
times  a year: before planting and then before and after the
harvest. A benchmark sentiment of 100 was established in the
initial survey in August 2010.  A record corn crop in 2012 may boost U.S. inventories that
shrank to a 16-year low in the past year, the USDA said last
week. Farmers in 2012 will receive $5 a bushel for the grain,
down 19 percent from last year, while wheat prices will slide 14
percent and soybeans may drop 1.7 percent, the USDA said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  