-- S&P 500 Advances on Better-Than-Estimated Housing Report
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-02-27T22:17:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/u-s-stock-futures-drop-as-g20-snubs-euro-area-funds-call.html
The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  rose
to an almost four-year high, rebounding from earlier losses, on
better-than-estimated housing data as financial shares rallied.  A measure of  banks  advanced the most in the  S&P 500  among
24 industries, rallying 1.9 percent.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
climbed 2 percent after CLSA Ltd. analyst Mike Mayo said it
should consider breaking up and selling businesses.  Lennar Corp. (LEN) 
and  D.R. Horton Inc. (DHI)  rallied more than 1.8 percent to pace gains
in homebuilders.  Micron (MU)  Technology Inc., the largest U.S. maker
of computer-memory chips, surged 7.7 percent after Japan-based
 rival  Elpida Memory Inc. filed for bankruptcy.  The S&P 500 gained 0.1 percent to 1,367.59 at 4 p.m. New
York time, erasing a drop of 0.8 percent. The Dow Jones
Industrial Average lost 1.44 points, or less than 0.1 percent,
to 12,981.51. The gauge turned lower at the close of trading
after failing to hold above  13,000 (INDU)  for the third session in the
past week. The Dow last closed above that level in May 2008.  “The market has been very discomforting for the bears,”
 Michael Holland , chairman and founder of New York-based Holland
& Co., said in a telephone interview. His firm oversees more
than $4 billion. “The economy is healing. That’s causing the
market to have some resilience.”  The S&P 500 is on pace for a third month of gains, the
 longest streak  in a year, amid better-than-estimated economic
and corporate reports. It has risen 4.2 percent this month. The
index trades at about 14.1 times reported earnings, compared
with the average since 1954 of 16.4 times, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Economic Data  Stocks rose today as more Americans than forecast signed
contracts to buy previously owned homes in January, indicating
the industry that sparked the last recession is improving.
Benchmark gauges rebounded from earlier losses, which were
triggered by concern about  Europe ’s debt crisis after the Group
of 20 nations rebuffed euro area call for help.  “We’re nowhere near the bottom of the European debt
crisis,”  Keith Wirtz , who oversees $14.6 billion as chief
investment officer for Fifth Third Asset Management in
Cincinnati, said in a telephone interview. “I keep hoping that
the European influence will ebb. The problem is still there.
We’ll need to get used to volatility.”  Six out of 10 groups in the S&P 500 rose today as
financial, consumer discretionary and technology companies had
the biggest gains. The  Morgan Stanley (MS)  Cyclical Index of
companies most-dependent on the economy added 0.6 percent.  The  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  rallied 1.3 percent as 22 of its 24
stocks advanced.  JPMorgan Climbs  JPMorgan Chase jumped 2 percent, the most in the Dow, to
$39.06. Its parts are worth one-third more than its market
value, according to CLSA’s Mayo. While JPMorgan’s stock has
outperformed its  peers , the New York-based company has trailed
the leading firms in its individual businesses, Mayo wrote in a
note e-mailed today.  “At what point does the conglomerate discount become so
great that it encourages the company to take action?” Mayo
wrote. “The stock seems undervalued, but the question is how
and when this value gets realized?”  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  climbed 2 percent to $8.04. The
lender and a group of investors that reached an $8.5 billion
mortgage-bond settlement with the bank won their bid to remove
the case from a federal judge and return it to state court. The
 U.S. Court of Appeals  in  Manhattan  overturned a lower court
ruling and granted a request by Bank of America and the investor
group to remand the case to New York state court, where it was
first filed, according to a decision today.  A measure of  homebuilders  in S&P indexes rallied 1.5
percent. Lennar added 2.5 percent to $22.94.  D.R. Horton  gained
1.9 percent to $14.24.  Lowe’s Results  Lowe’s Cos. rose 0.7 percent to $27.34. The second-largest
U.S. home-improvement retailer reported fourth-quarter  profit 
that exceeded analysts’ estimates after warmer weather
encouraged outdoor projects.  Whirlpool Corp. (WHR)  advanced 6.7 percent to $76.10. The world’s
largest appliance maker will beat analysts’ estimates for 2012
earnings as profit recovers, Cleveland Research said in a note
after meeting with the management.  Micron surged 7.7 percent to $8.56. Elpida, the last
Japanese maker of dynamic random access memory, or DRAM, chips
filed for bankruptcy after semiconductor prices plunged and it
failed to win a second government bailout. While there’s too
much capacity in the DRAM market, Micron could acquire some of
Elpida’s facilities and convert them to produce Nand flash, the
chips used in mobile phones and tablets,  Kevin Cassidy , a Stifel
Nicolaus & Co. analyst, said.  Disney, Dendreon  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  added 0.8 percent to $41.64. The largest
U.S. entertainment company by market value was raised to
“conviction buy” from “neutral” at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
which expects accelerating ad growth at ESPN.  Dendreon Corp. (DNDN)  tumbled 21 percent, the most since Nov. 3,
to $11.81. The maker of the prostate-cancer drug Provenge
reported earnings that missed analyst estimates.  A gauge of U.S. equity volatility is likely to be
“contained” below its historical average for the next four
months, according to MKM Partners LLC, reducing the potential
yields that structured product issuers can offer.  The VIX, as the  Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility
Index (VIX)  is known, will generally hold between 15 to 20 until mid-
June, said Jim Strugger, a derivatives strategist for MKM in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut . The VIX measures the cost of using
options as protection from losses in the S&P 500.  “We believe the volatility cycle is close to shifting into
its sweet spot that will last a couple of months and be
characterized by a steady move higher for U.S. equities,”
Strugger said in a note today to clients. He based his estimate
of the “sweet spot,” which represents a cyclical low in the
level of volatility, on historical data from periods that had
comparable price swings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  