-- U.S. Considers ‘Women’s Empowerment’ in Aid, Agency Says
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-02-27T20:09:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/u-s-considers-women-s-empowerment-in-aid-choices-agency-says.html
An index on women’s empowerment in
agriculture will help to evaluate the performance of aid
initiatives and shape how future programs are designed,
according to the  U.S. Agency for International Development.   The Women’s Empowerment in Agriculture Index will track
their involvement in farming decisions and income, as well as
leadership in their communities, the agency said today. By
understanding women’s roles in farming, aid programs can be more
effectively designed and administered, said Tjada McKenna,
deputy development coordinator for the U.S. government’s Feed
the Future initiative.  “It will help us see what our results have been and more
effectively do programming going forward,” McKenna said during
a conference call with reporters to discuss the index developed
by the agency, the  International Food Policy Research Institute 
and Oxford University.  The index will be applied to all programs in Feed the
Future, under which President  Barack Obama  pledged $3.5 billion
in the next three years to help developing nations improve
agricultural capacity. The U.S. funding is intended to generate
$18.5 billion in additional donations to improve agricultural
infrastructure.  World food  prices fell 5.8 percent last year after reaching
a record in February 2011, according to United Nations data.
Global costs increased 1.9 percent in January.  The index was developed through pilot programs in
Bangladesh, Guatemala and  Uganda  and also includes household
surveys of both genders that help determine the relative
equality between women and men. Money and education, two
traditional proxy measures of women’s empowerment, are not
necessarily the best indicators, according to research.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in  Washington  at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net . 