-- U.S. House Bill Shouldn’t ‘Emasculate’ Transit, LaHood Says
-- B y   L i s a   C a r u s o
-- 2012-02-27T15:12:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/u-s-house-bill-shouldn-t-emasculate-transit-lahood-says-1-.html
The Republican-controlled  House of
Representatives  shouldn’t pass a transportation proposal that
would end dedicated funding from gasoline-tax revenue for mass
transit, U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said.  The House “cannot pass a bill that emasculates transit,”
LaHood said today in Washington at a conference of state
transportation officials.  House Republican leaders said last week they would rewrite
the transportation committee’s five-year, $260 billion spending
bill in the face of opposition from within the party. They are
considering shortening its time frame, cutting expenditures and
dropping a proposal to stop dedicating a portion of gasoline
taxes to mass-transit projects.  LaHood wouldn’t comment on the proposal to cut
transportation funding. He urged Congress to pass President
 Barack Obama ’s fiscal year 2013 transportation budget, which
proposes spending $476 billion during six years for surface
transportation, and an immediate $50 billion this year.  “Give them a little direction,” LaHood urged members of
the  American Association of State Highway and Transportation
Officials , a Washington-based group that represents state
departments of transportation. “Be bold.”  Authorization for the current surface transportation law
expires March 31. The last multiyear spending bill ran through
2009 and has since operated on a series of short-term
extensions.  ‘Past as Prologue’  “I’m going to use past as prologue,” LaHood, a former
Republican representative from  Illinois , told reporters
following his remarks. “I don’t see Congress passing a bill
before this one runs out.”  The Senate is debating a two-year, $109 billion measure
that has bogged down over some senators’ push to offer unrelated
amendments. LaHood reiterated his support for the Senate bill,
which was passed out of the Environment and Public Works
Committee last November by a unanimous vote.  LaHood said he’d prefer that Congress produce a bill of
five to six years. He reserved judgment on the Senate’s two-year
plan and on House Republican leaders’ idea to shorten their
five-year measure.  “Let’s see what the Senate does,” LaHood said, adding
that “a transportation bill will be the biggest jobs bill
Congress could pass.”  The House bill is H.R. 7. The Senate bill is S. 1813.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Caruso in  Washington  at 
 lcaruso7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  