-- UBS Macro Strategies Team to Start Hedge Fund as Banks Exit Prop Trading
-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 2012-02-27T06:40:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/ubs-macro-team-to-start-hedge-fund-as-banks-exit-prop-trading.html
UBS AG (UBSN) ’s only team of traders with a
global mandate to make bets on macroeconomic trends is leaving
the bank to form a hedge fund, said Gerard Satur, the head of
macro strategic trading who will lead the fund.  The Sydney-based firm, MST Capital, is in talks with
cornerstone investors, said Satur, who remains a UBS employee
until next month. The new macro fund will target annual returns
of 10 percent to 15 percent, he said in an interview in Sydney
today, declining to name potential investors.  Zurich-based UBS is among global investment banks
jettisoning proprietary trading desks as regulators impose
limits on risk taking in the wake of the worst financial crisis
since the 1930s. MST Capital’s team of UBS bankers includes
former Morgan Stanley proprietary trader Jeremy Hooper and
Matthew Mulcahy, who previously worked for Pacific Investment
Management Co.  “We’re spinning out of the best investment bank in
 Australia ,” Satur, 38, said in an interview in UBS’s Sydney
office. “We have a very experienced investment team across all
asset classes.”  The fund led by Satur began trading for UBS in July 2011.
It generated a return through January of 7 percent, according to
the Australian Financial Review’s Street Talk column, which
first reported the spinoff today. The  S&P/ASX 200 index  tumbled
7.5 percent in that period.  MST Capital is entering an Australian hedge fund industry
battered by investor withdrawals and lackluster returns since
the 2008 global financial crisis.  Macro Outperforms  Satur and his team of traders are due to leave UBS in mid-
March and will establish their own offices. He said there is
likely to be an on-going relationship with UBS.  Jenny Warat, a spokeswoman for UBS in Sydney, declined to
comment on the hedge fund move.  The Eurekahedge  Macro Hedge Fund Index (EHFI253)  declined 1.4 percent
last year, outperforming the broader  Eurekahedge Hedge Fund
Index (EHFI251) ’s 4.1 percent decline, according to the Singapore-based
data provider. Macro funds trade stocks, bonds, currencies and
commodities based on managers’ analysis of fundamental, economic
and political factors.  “We’re offering a global macro product, with an Asia bias,
which we think can perform well in all market environments,”
said Mark Levinson, a former managing director at Goldman Sachs
Australia Pty Ltd., who joined MST Capital as its head of
 investor relations .  UBS, which is cutting risk-taking at the investment bank to
focus on  wealth management , told investors in November that it
was evaluating options for its equities prop trading unit. The
bank has to close its proprietary trading operations in the U.S.
because of the so-called Volker rule, while elsewhere it doesn’t
fit with UBS’s strategy even though it’s a “very good
profitable business for us,” Chief Financial Officer Tom Naratil said in an interview Feb. 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  