-- Muddy Waters Loses Support in Market on Latest Calls
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2012-02-27T22:11:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/muddy-waters-losing-support-in-market-as-latest-calls-prove-inconclusive.html
Carson Block, the short seller and
analyst who sparked a 74 percent drop in  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) 
shares when he said the company misstated its business, is
finding it harder to attract believers to his latest research.  The 35-year-old lawyer who founded Muddy Waters LLC gained
credibility in June when he told investors that Sino-Forest
overstated its timber holdings. Block’s reports on Chinese
companies shook investors in the world’s fastest-growing major
economy and helped erase more than $5 billion of market value.
The calls caused losses for  John Paulson , the billionaire who
got rich betting against subprime mortgages, and former American
International Group Inc. Chief Executive Officer Maurice “Hank” Greenberg.  His latest opinions aren’t getting the same reaction. While
 Focus Media Holding Ltd. (FMCN)  sank 39 percent when Muddy Waters said
Nov. 21 that the Shanghai-based digital advertiser exaggerated
its network, the stock has rebounded 52 percent.  Spreadtrum
Communications Inc. (SPRD) , a chipmaker in Shanghai, traded at $15.67
in New York, from $12.49 on June 28, when Block questioned its
 revenue . Focus Media and Spreadtrum say the firm’s assertions
lack merit.  “Carson pointed at a lot of things, but what seems to be
lacking is a present-day smoking gun,” said Eric M. Jackson,
founder and managing member of Ironfire Capital, a Naples,
Florida-based hedge fund that invests in Chinese stocks. “It’s
a tougher job.”  Reverse Merger  Block said on June 2 that Sino-Forest, a timber plantation
operator based in  Hong Kong  and Missassauga, Ontario, claimed to
own land that didn’t show up in government records. Sino-Forest,
one of more than 300 Chinese companies listed in  North America ,
lost C$3.3 billion ($3.3 billion) of market value after the
report was released and hasn’t traded since August.  The company said on Feb. 1 that a committee of directors
may not be able to disprove some statements as the information
may not exist or be retrievable. Paulson, 56, sold his stake
following Block’s report and booked a loss of C$106 million.  The Securities and Exchange Commission  cautioned  investors
in June about buying stakes in so-called reverse mergers, a
process that involves buying a publicly traded shell company,
saying they may be prone to “fraud and other abuses.” The
 Bloomberg Chinese Reverse Mergers Index (CHINARTO) , which tracks stock of
73 such companies, has lost more than half its value over the
past two years.  Face of Short Selling  Block, who founded a self-storage company in Shanghai after
moving there in 2005 with a law degree, started  Muddy Waters  in
2010. He became the face of the short-selling wave against
Chinese companies after his research led regulators to suspend
trading in four of his first five targets, including Sino-
Forest.  Hong Kong-based  China MediaExpress Holdings Inc. (CCME) , which
counted Greenberg’s C.V. Starr & Co. as a top shareholder, was
suspended after Block said in February 2011 that the company was
inflating profit. MediaExpress said the assertion lacked merit.
Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Ltd., a global accounting firm,
resigned as auditor six weeks after Block’s report.  Muddy Waters, which says readers of its research should
assume it has a short position, is having less success
persuading investors to bet against his targets amid a new  bull
market  in global equities.  While  Focus Media  slid to $15.43 from $25.50 when Block
said the company was being run “solely for the benefit of
insiders,” it has rebounded to $23.42. Muddy Waters said Focus
Media has fewer television screens in its ad network and that it
may have overpaid for takeovers to mask losses.  Counting Screens  Market surveys conducted by Ipsos SA, a Paris-based polling
company, and its unit Synovate in more than 100 cities showed
that the number of LCD screens and poster frames reported by the
Chinese company was more than 99 percent accurate, Focus Media
said. While some of the company’s acquisitions haven’t been
successful, assertions of fraud are “without foundation,”
Focus Media said on Nov. 22.  Focus Media is “a legitimate business” and Block failed
to provide new information on its acquisitions because the deals
are publicly disclosed, said David Semple, director of
international equity at the Van Eck Emerging Markets Fund in  New
York , which oversees $35 billion, including Focus Media shares.  “You are looking at the stuff in the past and people knew
about it,” said Semple. “Why bring it up now? They didn’t even
bother to check with the company to find it out.”  Spreadtrum is up 21 percent since June 27, the day before
Muddy Waters said it was betting that the stock would fall in an
open letter to management.  Regulatory Scrutiny  The shares are rebounding at a time when Chinese stocks
trading in the U.S. are attracting more interest from investors
and regulators.  A gauge  of Chinese and Hong Kong stocks listed
in the U.S. lost 53 percent since its January 2011 peak after
short sellers said companies including Sino-Forest were
manipulating their financial information, embezzling money and
lying about factories and customers.  “Unfortunately, there are still China frauds out there and
these companies are willing to do almost anything to continue
perpetrating that fraud,” Block said in an e-mailed statement.  Block “really opened a new chapter in exposing frauds,”
said Sahm Adrangi, founder of New York-based hedge fund
Kerrisdale Capital Management LLC, which is shorting Focus
Media. “People just weren’t putting forward the resources to
analyze these companies top to bottom as Carson did.”  Short Returns  Adrangi’s $75 million fund returned almost 200 percent last
year by betting against Chinese companies, according to data
compiled by Fairfield, Iowa-based BarclayHedge, which tracks
fund performance.  Focus Media, with a  market value  of $3.3 billion, is the
largest among the eight Chinese firms Block has targeted since
June 2010 after Sino-Forest, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Spreadtrum has a market capitalization of $756
million.  Unlike Sino-Forest and China MediaExpress, which were
listed on exchanges in North America through reverse mergers,
Focus Media and Spreadtrum sold stock via initial public
offerings.  The decline of reverse mergers is limiting the profit on
short positions and it’s more challenging to prove
transgressions by bigger companies, said Kevin Carter, co-
founder and chief executive officer at Walnut Creek, California-
based Baochuan Capital Management LLC.  ‘Real and Substantive’  “To find something that is real and substantive and leads
to the permanent demise of the business, those things are very
hard to do,” said Carter, who holds shares of Focus Media.
“They don’t have any more chances.”  Jing Lu, an investor-relations officer at Focus Media in
 Shanghai , didn’t return two e-mails and phone calls. Spreadtrum
declined to comment on its share performance, said an official
who asked not to be identified according to company policy.  The Chinese companies are protecting their stocks by buying
shares and paying dividends.  Spreadtrum declared a 9.5-cent  dividend  on Dec. 23 and said
that month that it will buy back as much as $50 million of its
American depositary receipts.  Focus Media said last month that it will use as much as 55
percent of its net income in the previous fiscal year to pay
dividends or buy back shares. Chief Executive Officer Jason Jiang and Hong Kong-listed Fosun International Ltd., Focus
Media’s two largest shareholders, bought $21 million of ADRs on
Nov. 22. The company responded to each of Muddy Waters’ five
reports, rebutting the short-seller’s claims point by point.  CEO Commitment  “When the CEO shows a commitment to the company by buying
a significant amount of shares, that sends a sense of confidence
to investors,” said Kevin Pollack, a  fund manager  at Paragon
Capital LP in New York, which invests in U.S.-traded Chinese
stocks.  Block said on June 28 that he sees “a high risk of
material misstatements” in Spreadtrum’s financial reporting,
citing a six-fold surge in inventory in 2010. Block also
questioned why then Chief Executive Officer Ping Wu and Chief
Financial Officer Richard Wei left the company months before it
reported 137 percent revenue growth in the third quarter of 2009
over the previous quarter. Sales increased 230 percent in 2010
from a year earlier.  Turned Around  Spreadtrum’s CEO Leo Li told investors during a conference
call on June 29 that the inventory increase was due to the
introduction of new products. Li said in an interview the same
day that the company had neither customers nor a sales pipeline
under the previous management. Spreadtrum turned around after
developing new products once he became president in November
2008, Li said.  Analysts are rallying behind the companies. Six of eight
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg since December have a “buy”
rating for Focus Media.  Concerns over the allegations made in Block’s reports are
overblown,  Catherine Leung , an analyst at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., said in a Feb. 1 report, setting a “target” of $43 for
the shares.  Ten of 13  analysts have recommended buying Spreadtrum since
December. Analysts at RBC  Capital Markets  and Dundee Securities,
who had championed Sino-Forest’s stock before Block’s
allegations, suspended their coverage within a month of Muddy
Waters’ report.  Ironfire’s Jackson says Block has helped weed out
questionable Chinese companies listed in North America and
tempered overly bullish investor sentiment. The chances of a
repeat are limited because share prices are already depressed
and the bigger companies have more resources to fight back,
Jackson said.  “Easy money has been made,” Jackson said. “It’s going to
be a harder job for him if he wants to continue to short these
Chinese companies.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  