-- Ukraine to Wait for Eurobond Window as $1 Billion March Debt Payment Safe
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 2012-02-28T12:57:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/ukraine-considering-dollar-bond-offering-amid-russian-loan-negotiations.html
Ukraine can wait until market
conditions are right for a planned sale of dollar-denominated
bonds as it has sufficient funds to cover debt payments, First
Deputy Prime Minister Valery Khoroshkovskyi said yesterday.  “We will wait for a window,” Khoroshkovskyi, who was
appointed last week, said in an interview in Brussels. “We
repaid $1 billion of debts in February. We have to repay
approximately the same amount in March and even if we do not
issue Eurobonds we will pay it easily.”  Ukraine is also in talks to borrow cash from Russian banks
and plans to refinance a $2 billion loan from  VTB Group (VTBR)  that
matures in June, said Khoroshkovskyi, who served previously as
finance minister.  President  Viktor Yanukovych  appointed Khoroshkovskyi Feb.
22, part of Cabinet changes before parliamentary elections in
October. The Finance Ministry picked  JP Morgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Russian’s VTB Capital and Troika Dialog,
which is controlled by  OAO Sberbank (SBER) , to lead manage a potential
Eurobond sale, according to a Feb. 3 statement.  Ukraine’s 6.25 percent government bonds due to 2016 rose as
of 1 p.m. in Kiev, pushing yields down to 8.332 percent from
8.578 percent yesterday. The hryvnia strengthened to 7.9923 per
dollar from 7.9978 on Feb. 24.  Hryvnia Is ‘Stable’  Ukraine’s hryvnia will remain stable as “we do not have
any difficulties now which may” push the currency down,
Khoroshkovskyi said. “It is stable and it is a good position
for the economy and a good indicator for business,” he said.  The government plans to borrow 12.15 billion hryvnia ($1.5
billion) abroad in March, the  Finance Ministry  said Feb. 9.  Ukraine will only proceed with a Eurobond sale if market
conditions are “favorable,” Halyna Pakhachuk, head of the
Finance Ministry’s financial-policy and government-debt
management department, said Feb. 16.  There are “good” signs that the government can refinance
its VTB loan, which was granted by  Russia ’s second-biggest bank
in June 2010 for six months and carries an interest rate of 6.7
percent, Khoroshkovskyi said. Ukraine agreed on its first six-
month extension in December 2010 and had an option to prolong it
two more times, according to the accord.  ‘Skeptical on Loan’  “I’m skeptical on a loan from Russian banks,” Alexander Valchyshen, head of research at Investment Capital Ukraine in
Kiev, said yesterday by e-mail. “A much more logical way is
tapping the Eurobond market if there’s a chance.”  Khoroshkovskyi, 43, served as finance minister from Jan.
18. He had previously been in charge of the Ukraine’s security
service. He replaced Andriy Klyuev, who was named as secretary
of the National Defense and Security Council.  Khoroshkovskyi will lead talks with the  International
Monetary Fund  on a $15.6 billion loan program that’s been frozen
since last March as well as negotiations to strengthen ties with
the European Union. Before it resumes disbursements, the IMF has
demanded the government raise utility tariffs for households to
trim the state’s budget gap.  Ukraine will raise prices “when we can,” Khoroshkovskyi
said. “Now is not a very good period. We remember in previous
times that when you move prices up, people cannot pay them.”  Democratic Principles  IMF  financing for Ukraine will depend on the country’s
adherence to democratic principles, Philip H. Gordon, the U.S.
assistant secretary of state, said in a televised  interview  with
Ukrainian channel TVi on Feb. 12.  Khoroshkovskyi said he asked IMF officials about Gordon’s
remarks and was told the lender only looks at the economic
situation. Ukraine is at odds with IMF recommendations to adopt
a flexible  exchange rate .  The EU delayed indefinitely the signing of an association
agreement, planned for December, because of the imprisonment of
the opposition leader  Yulia Tymoshenko .  Ukrainian authorities moved 51-year-old Tymoshenko to a
penal colony in the Kharkiv region in eastern Ukraine on Dec.
30, a week after a court upheld her seven-year prison term for
signing a gas contract with Russia in 2009. A verdict last year
that found Tymoshenko had abused her authority by signing the
agreement when she was premier drew condemnation from the EU and
the U.S. as well as Russia.  ‘Purely Legal’  “If we’re talking about the political point of view, then
everything is possible,” Khoroshkovskyi said of the former
prime minister’s release. “If we speaking from a purely legal
point of view, and this is one on which the judiciary system is
based, there’s no such a possibility today.”  Ukraine is changing its legislation on criminal
proceedings, Khoroshkovskyi said. Provisions on which Tymoshenko
was sentenced are not to be revised, he said, adding that it
“remains to be seen what will be the final decision by the
legislative body.”  A court in  Kiev  sentenced Tymoshenko’s ally and former
Interior Minister Yuriy Lutsenko yesterday to four years in
prison for abuse of power, saying he spent too much state budget
money on celebrating Day of Police and illegally granted an
apartment to his driver.  “We are disappointed with the verdict against Lutsenko,
which signals the continuation of trials in Ukraine which do not
respect international standards as regards fair, transparent and
independent legal process,” EU Enlargement Commissioner Stefan Fule said in yesterday’s statement. The EU will continue to
monitor the cases of Tymoshenko and Lutsenko, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net 
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alessandro Vitelli at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net 
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  