-- Hungary Likely to Hold Rate After Forint Surge
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-02-28T09:04:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/hungary-likely-to-hold-rate-after-forint-surge.html
Hungary’s central bank will probably
keep borrowing costs unchanged for a second month as a surge in
the forint and lower credit risk reduce pressure on policy
makers even as talks over a bailout remain stalled.  The  Magyar Nemzeti Bank  will leave the  two-week deposit
rate  at 7 percent, the European Union’s highest benchmark rate,
according to all 22 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The
decision will be announced at 2 p.m. in Budapest.  Hungary should maintain borrowing costs until agreeing on
an  International Monetary Fund -led loan, which may allow lower
rates, policy makers Ferenc Gerhardt and Gyorgy Kocziszky said
Feb. 15. The central bank unexpectedly held rates last month as
four first-year members of its rate-setting board, including
Gerhardt and Kocziszky, outvoted President  Andras Simor  and his
two deputies, who sought a third successive half-point increase.  “Rates are expected to remain unchanged as long as the
country’s risk assessment doesn’t deteriorate significantly,”
economists at Intesa Sanpaolo SpA’s CIB Bank Zrt. in Budapest,
including Sandor Jobbagy, wrote Feb. 24 by e-mail. “Cautious
monetary easing may be on the agenda in the latter part of the
year.”  The forint has risen 8.5 percent this year against the
euro, the most among currencies tracked by Bloomberg, after
Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  pledged Jan. 5 to come to a
“quick” agreement with the IMF and the EU on a loan. It fell
16 percent in the second half of last year, the most in the
world. The forint rose 0.4 percent to 289.84 per euro at 9:27
a.m. in Budapest.  Bailout Talks  The cost of insuring Hungarian government debt against non-
payment using credit-default swaps fell to 517.5 basis points
yesterday from a record 735 points on Jan. 5, before Orban’s
pledge, according to data provider CMA. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  Forward-rate agreements, used to bet on three-month
interest costs in one month, fell 7 basis points to 7.405
percent. The Budapest Interbank Offered Rate traded at 7.38
percent at yesterday’s close.  Orban is trying to revive talks for a bailout, which he
sought in November after the forint fell to a record low against
the euro and the country’s sovereign-credit rating was cut to
junk. Talks broke down the following month after the EU and the
IMF said draft legislation threatened central bank independence.  ‘In the Air’  Hungary  can’t start talks on an international loan until
the government meets preconditions, including addressing
concerns on monetary policy, the judiciary and the data-
protection agency. The EU has no deadline or timeline to assess
Hungary’s Feb. 17 response on the infringement procedures, a
European Commission spokesman told reporters on Feb. 21.  “It’s in the air” that Hungary’s judicial reform may
become a European court case, Deputy Prime Minister Tibor Navracsics told M1 state television today, casting doubt over
Orban’s pledge to resolve disagreements quickly in order to move
on to the negotiation phase.  “Sentiment towards Hungary has generally improved over the
past few weeks, but there are still many risks ahead,”  Benoit Anne , head of emerging-market strategy at Societe Generale SA,
said in an e-mail today. “In particular, we fear that market
participants may be overly optimistic about the chances of the
authorities securing an IMF program fairly quickly, given the
outstanding that need to be addressed.”  Inflation Accelerates  The  inflation rate  rose to 5.5 percent in January, the
highest since April 2010, from 4.1 percent in December. The
Monetary Council doesn’t need to react to a one-time jump in the
inflation rate, Gerhardt and Kocziszky said.  A “sustained higher inflation path” would justify a rate
increase, central bank Vice President Ferenc Karvalits said Feb.
17. Policy makers target an inflation rate of 3 percent.  “We believe further confirmation about securing an IMF
deal and additional fiscal austerity measures for 2013 may be
needed to improve the inflation outlook and contribute to
further narrowing in risk premiums, which may provide arguments
for the Monetary Council to initiate a gradual rate-cutting
cycle,”  Eszter Gargyan , a Budapest-based economist at Citigroup
Inc., said in a report today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  