-- Universal Music Group Rivals, Customers Quizzed by EU on EMI Bid
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-02-28T12:29:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/universal-music-group-rivals-customers-quizzed-by-eu-on-emi-bid.html
Rivals and customers of  Vivendi SA’s (VIV) 
 Universal Music Group  were asked by European Union regulators
whether the company’s acquisition of EMI Group’s recorded music
business would allow it to increase prices.  Regulators in Brussels asked whether  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iTunes,
the largest online music store, and others could prevent record
labels from coordinating prices, according to a document seen by
Bloomberg News. Regulators also asked whether online music
retailers could succeed without songs from EMI, including the
Beatles and Amy Winehouse, and Universal, which represents Lady Gaga and Rihanna.  Universal last week sought European Commission approval to
buy EMI’s recorded music operations, which develop artists and
profit from recorded songs. Universal agreed to buy EMI’s
recorded music business last year for 1.2 billion pounds ($1.9
billion).  “Please explain whether, in your view, after the
acquisition of EMI, Universal would have the ability to raise
the price for its recorded music” for music bought online or
offline, the EU asked in the questionnaire. The deadline for
replies was Feb. 24.  “These questionnaires are a normal part of the process and
we are comfortable that we can satisfy any concerns that might
be raised,” Universal said in a statement.  Dylan Jones , a spokesman for London-based EMI, declined to
comment. The European Commission declined to comment.  Sony-Led Group  Citigroup Inc. agreed to sell EMI Group’s recorded music
and publishing businesses in separate transactions for a
combined $4.1 billion. The EU set an initial deadline of March
23 to rule on the Universal deal. A  Sony Corp (6758) .-led group
yesterday sought EU approval to purchase EMI’s music publishing
operation in a separate deal valued at $2.2 billion. Regulators
set an April 2 deadline to examine that purchase.  Impala, a group of independent music companies,  said  this
month that it expects an “outright no” from regulators to the
Universal deal because it would increase prices. The group
challenged the EU’s 2004 approval for Sony and Bertelsmann AG to
create the Sony BMG record label at the EU courts, forcing a
reexamination by regulators. The deal was eventually approved in
2007.  Universal’s holdings account for 27 percent of the recorded
music market, while EMI represents 9.7 percent, according to
Sanford C. Bernstein analyst  Claudio Aspesi .  The questionnaire, with more than 100 questions, also
sought information on whether the shift to online services had
reduced business costs that previously hampered smaller record
labels.  Facebook Substitute  The antitrust agency asked if artists could use online
services such as Facebook as a substitute for  record companies 
in promoting and distributing their music.  It also asked if it was likely Vivendi would use its
ownership of Universal and EMI to bolster its French mobile
telephone unit, broadband Internet business, online music
service or its games division  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI) , which
makes the “Call of Duty” video game.  Warner Music  Group, an unsuccessful bidder for EMI,
believes the Universal/EMI deal “would significantly impair the
competitiveness of the recorded music and music publishing
markets,” Chief Executive Officer Steve Cooper said this month.
Warner will lobby against the sale in the U.S. and  Europe ,
retiring Chairman Edgar Bronfman Jr. said last month.  Will Tanous, a spokesman for New York-based Warner Music,
declined to comment on the questionnaire. Warner Music has 12
percent of the recorded music market.  The breakup of EMI, owner of Abbey Road Studios, ended a
nine-month struggle over the future of the 114-year-old music
company.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  last year seized London-based EMI from
investor  Guy Hands , who lost almost a third of his firm’s 5.4
billion-euro ($7.25 billion) buyout fund on the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 