-- Rupert Murdoch’s U.K. Sun Had ‘Culture’ of Corrupt Payments to Officials
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-02-27T17:13:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/murdoch-s-sun-tabloid-had-culture-of-corrupt-payments-to-public-officials.html
News Corp.’s Sun newspaper had a
“culture” of corrupt payments to public officials and paid one
source more than 80,000 pounds ($127,000), the police officer in
charge of probes into bribery and phone hacking said.  “The journalists had a network upon which to call at
various strategic places across public life,” Metropolitan
Police Service Deputy Assistant Commissioner Sue Akers told a
judicial inquiry into media ethics in London today. “There
appears to have been a culture of illegal payments and
facilitating ways of hiding those payments.”  Akers testified the day after News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  attempted to move on from the phone-hacking scandal by
publishing a Sunday edition of the Sun to replace the shuttered
News of the World tabloid. Ten Sun journalists have been
arrested in the investigation into corrupt payments to police
officers and other public officials.  Akers said one journalist on the paper had claimed 150,000
pounds in cash “to pay to his sources, a number of whom were
public officials.” Such payments had been authorized at “a
very senior level.”  Murdoch said that the practices described by Akers were
“of the past and no longer exist at the Sun.”  ‘Right Path’  “As I’ve made very clear, we have vowed to do everything
we can to get to the bottom of prior wrongdoings in order to set
us on the right path for the future,” Murdoch said in an e-
mailed statement.  Robert Jay, a lawyer for the inquiry, said the public
feared the relationship between the police and  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K.
newspapers was “at best inappropriately close, and if not
actually corrupt was very close to it.”  Akers said the investigation had been able to link the
payments to specific stories, which were generally “salacious
gossip, rather than anything that could be regarded as in the
public interest.” Payments may have been made to soldiers,
Ministry of Defense officials and other public servants, as well
as police officers, Akers said.  Some journalists on the Sun have criticized the police and
judicial probes, with columnist Trevor Kavanagh writing an
article in the newspaper suggesting press freedom was under
threat. Murdoch traveled to London to calm staff fears and start
the Sun on Sunday. The first edition of the newspaper sold 3
million copies.  ‘Pie and a Pint’  “We’re not talking about journalists buying a copper a pie
and a pint,” Neil Garnham, a lawyer representing  London ’s
Metropolitan Police, told the inquiry.  Earlier, Jay said that the former chief executive officer
of News Corp.’s U.K. publishing unit, Rebekah Brooks, was given
a briefing on the state of a police investigation into phone-
hacking at the News of the World tabloid in 2006 while the probe
was continuing.  Brooks was editor of The Sun at the time. Afterwards she
spoke to Tom Crone, the News of the World’s lawyer, who sent
 Andy Coulson , the News of the World’s editor, an e-mail
summarizing what she was told, Jay said.  The briefing included information that the police had
identified more than 100 phone-hacking victims, and were
confident they would be able to convict the News of the World
reporter,  Clive Goodman , and private investigator,  Glenn Mulcaire , whom they had already arrested. It also revealed
they’d identified more than 1 million pounds of payments from
News Corp. to Mulcaire.  IPCC Probe  The Independent Police Complaints Commission said Feb. 24
that it had begun investigating a senior officer in relation to
“an allegation of inappropriate disclosure of information” to
a News Corp. executive.  Until early 2011, the company insisted phone hacking had
been limited to Goodman and Mulcaire. Brooks and Coulson have
both been arrested in the police probe into hacking. No one has
been charged.  Coulson, who resigned from the News of the World in 2007
after Goodman and Mulcaire had pleaded guilty, later worked for
Conservative Party leader  David Cameron , who was then in
opposition. He moved into government when Cameron became prime
minister in 2010 and stepped down at the start of 2011.  Former Deputy Prime Minister  John Prescott  criticized the
initial police investigation, saying police informed him that
they had no evidence his voice mails were accessed. Prescott
settled a phone-hacking suit last month against News Corp. for
40,000 pounds.  “I thought the most important thing was the role of the
police,” Prescott told the inquiry today, referring a judicial
review he instigated. “That’s why I pursued them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 