-- Using ETFs to Reduce Volatility
-- B y   L e w i s   B r a h a m
-- 2012-02-27T22:38:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/using-etfs-to-reduce-volatility.html
     As a financial adviser in  California ’s Bay Area, Jim Koch
has a lot of tech industry clients with portfolios that make
him nervous. “Most of them want to invest in tech stocks, so
their portfolios have way more risk than they realize,” says
the Alamo (Calif.)-based founder of Koch Capital. Investing in
what you know can leave your livelihood and portfolio balance
riding on just one volatile industry, he adds. That’s why when
PowerShares launched its S&P 500 Low Volatility
exchange-traded fund last May, he called it “a gift from the
financial-innovation gods.”  The PowerShares ETF is one of a slew of new funds from
companies, including IShares, Russell Investments and
EGShares, that seek to reduce downside risk by investing in
stocks with low volatility. They’ve attracted a great deal of
interest from advisers such as Koch seeking to smooth out
clients’ returns. The PowerShares ETF has over $1 billion in
assets, which gives it a key liquidity advantage over its much
smaller rivals. More assets means more trading, which can mean
a better price for buyers and sellers. The fund has an expense
ratio of 0.25% and a dividend yield just over 3 percent.  Risk-Return Puzzle  On the surface, these ETFs seem to achieve their goal.
 Standard & Poor’s  back-tested the performance of its  S&P 500 
Low Volatility Index, which the PowerShares ETF tracks, to
Jan. 1, 1991, and found that it was 24 percent less volatile
than the S&P 500 and delivered a 9.6 percent annualized return
through 2011. That beat the S&P 500’s 7.6 percent return.  That's not the way things are supposed to work in the
investment world, where low risk is equated with low return.  The reason for that effect may be that money managers
overpay for risky stocks, according to researchers at the
Erasmus School of Economics in Rotterdam. Their 2007
study, “The Volatility Effect: Lower Risk without Lower
Return,” suggests managers may do that because the stocks
perform well in strong bull markets and draw money into their
funds--even if the stocks do terribly in bear markets.
Meanwhile, low volatility stocks tend to be boring
steady-eddies that are often ignored and are thus underpriced.
That leads to their subsequent outperformance.  Managing Expectations  Still, the developers of the new volatility indexes are
leery of promising too much. “I wouldn’t recommend anyone
engage in this strategy because the [back-tested] returns have
been higher in the past,” says Craig Lazzara, senior director
at S&P Indices. He says investors should expect both less
downside in bear markets and less upside in bulls. “In a year
where the market is doing really badly, it’s highly likely
you’ll be down much less,” he says. “You’ll get sufficient
participation on the upside but a reduced amount.”  Investors scared to be in stocks may use the ETFs to inch
back into the market. Doug Sandler, an adviser at RiverFront
Investment Group in Richmond, Va., is putting up to 10 percent
of his conservative clients’ portfolios into the PowerShares
ETF in place of bonds. “In the period we’re in now, the
marginal dollars going into stocks are coming from bond
investors,” he says. “That investor doesn’t care about beating
the S&P 500. He cares about keeping his risks down.”  Concentrated Risk  Lagging in bull markets isn’t the only risk. A more
dangerous one could be sector concentration. Some 31 percent
of the PowerShares ETF is in utility stocks and another 29
percent is in consumer staple stocks such as Kellogg.
Commodity price swings or changes in federal regulations or
 interest rates  could affect utilities, which are often
compared to bonds because of their high dividend yields.  The S&P low vol index has a natural control mechanism to
deal with concentration risk, says Lazarra. If a sector
becomes more volatile its stocks will be replaced with less
volatile ones from other sectors. The index ranks stocks in
the S&P 500 by their volatility levels over the past year and
holds the hundred with the lowest, rebalancing once a quarter.
So if something terrible happens to a sector in the space of
three months, its weighting will drop. The downside to this is
that you might miss out on a rebound in stocks.  Can the index react quickly enough to avoid damage from a
sudden shock to a sector? Financial adviser Lee Munson of
Portfolio LLC in  Albuquerque  has avoided the PowerShares
ETF, in part because of what he observed in  Japan  last year.
“Sector concentration killed low vol Japanese strategies last
year when utilities blew up during the nuclear meltdown,” he
says.  Those seeking more diversification could explore the
IShares MSCI USA Minimum Volatility Index Fund. It tracks a
low-volatility benchmark created by MSCI that's designed so
sector weightings don’t vary from the overall market’s
weighting by more than five percent. It has 8.4 percent in
utilities.  The Russell 1000 Low Volatility ETF takes a different
tack. It allows for sector concentration, but ranks stocks by
their three-month volatilities and rebalances its portfolio
every month. The downside of the strategy is that it increases
the turnover of portfolio holdings, which means higher trading
costs. To keep costs down, Russell has put in trading
restrictions so that turnover can't exceed 12 percent in any
month.
 