-- Vietnam’s February Trade Balance Swings to Deficit From Surplus
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-27T03:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/vietnam-s-february-trade-balance-swings-to-deficit-from-surplus.html
Vietnam ’s trade balance swung to a
deficit in February, reviving pressure on the currency to weaken
after recent gains.  The shortfall this month was $800 million, compared with a
revised $172 million surplus in January, according to
preliminary figures released by the General Statistics Office in
Hanoi today. For the first two months of the year, the deficit
totaled $628 million. The statistics agency hasn’t reported a
monthly  trade gap  exceeding the $1 billion mark since September.  Vietnam devalued the dong by about 7 percent a year ago as
a persistent trade deficit and soaring prices hurt confidence in
the nation’s economy. The currency has strengthened by about 1
percent this year after the government took steps to slow credit
growth and  Asia ’s fastest  inflation .  “As the year wears on, I expect production activity to
improve, imported inputs to increase, and bigger monthly trade
deficits,” Alan Pham, the Ho Chi Minh City-based chief
economist at VinaCapital Group, said before the report.  The deficit narrowed last year to about $9.5 billion from
$12.6 billion in 2010, based on preliminary data in December.
The shortfall must reduce further to enable the central bank to
ease  monetary policy  without “serious  currency depreciation ,”
according to UBS AG, which estimates the trade gap may halve
this year from 2011.  The government’s efforts to damp demand for imported goods
have helped “relieve pressure” on the dong, Trinh D Nguyen, a
Hong Kong-based economist at HSBC Holdings Plc., said in a
report before today’s release.  Dong Appreciation  Still, weaker external demand and expectations of slower
expansion will lead to a deceleration in export and import
growth this year, Nguyen said. Vietnam was the largest seller of
textiles and apparel to the U.S. in 2011 after  China , according
to data from the U.S. International Trade Commission.  The Vietnamese dong has climbed to 20,830 per  U.S. dollar 
after losing more than 7 percent of its value against the
American currency last year. Central bank Governor Nguyen Van Binh said last month the currency will gradually depreciate 2
percent to 3 percent this year.  Exports rose to $8.2 billion in February from $7.095
billion in January. For the first two months of the year,
 exports  gained 24.8 percent from a year earlier to $15.295
billion.  Imports climbed to $9 billion in February from $6.923
billion in January. For the first two months,  purchases from
abroad  advanced 11.8 percent to $15.923 billion.  --Jason Folkmanis in  Ho Chi Minh City . Editors: Rina Chandran,
Stephanie Phang  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  