-- Vodafone Snubbed by Competitors on $40 Billion Network Costs
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-02-27T16:33:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/vodafone-ceo-unsuccessfully-offered-to-co-invest-in-networks.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  Chief Executive
Officer Vittorio Colao asked rival European phone operators to
share the 30 billion euros ($40 billion) in investments needed
for faster networks as regulators balk at consolidation.  “As Vodafone we have offered to co-invest in these
networks, we have offered it to the most important European
players,” Colao said in Barcelona at the  Mobile World Congress 
today. “So far, we have not succeeded in convincing them that
this is a good idea but we are keen on doing it.”  The need to build new networks for video and gaming
services and the unraveling of takeovers and mergers in the past
two months, including a sale of  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile
USA and a combination of Vodafone’s Greek assets with a rival,
shows the need for European carriers to find other ways to boost
profitability. Colao said the solution is to compete on an open,
shared infrastructure.  “If times are tough and there is not enough money, we
should probably go into a co-investment situation and have open
co-invested infrastructure,” he said. The industry will need to
invest about 30 billion euros for new networks based on long-
term evolution technology that allows much faster data
downloads, he said.  Resistance  Vodafone, the world’s largest mobile-phone operator, also
operates fixed-line networks in three of its largest European
markets,  Italy ,  Spain  and  Germany . “There is still a resistance
to the concept of open networks, not in mobile but in fixed
networks,” Colao said, referring to these three countries.  If other major European operators are not willing to team
up with Vodafone in order to protect their dominance in their
home markets, Colao may need to form alliances with smaller
local operators.  In Italy, Vodafone and local operators  FastWeb SpA (FWB)  and Wind
Telecomunicazioni SpA said in May 2010 they would invest 2.5
billion euros in a network to serve about 10 million people in
Italy’s 15 largest cities within five years. Telecom Italia,
Italy’s biggest phone company, decided to focus on the
development of its own network.  This month, Vodafone abandoned an attempt to merge its
Greek unit with rival Wind Hellas after facing European Union
regulatory opposition. A successful merger would have allowed
Vodafone to reduce costs and better compete in the country with
Hellenic Telecommunications Organization SA, or OTE, which is
controlled by Deutsche Telekom.  Greece Deal  “The country will not support three full networks,” Colao
said today. Vodafone said Feb. 9 it is in talks with Wind Hellas
about sharing networks in  Greece  after it called off the
proposed merger.  After years of sliding prices for wireless service in
 Europe , operators now have a shot at halting that trend by
getting customers hooked on faster mobile technology. Handset
manufacturers such as  ZTE Corp. (000063)  use the Mobile World Congress in
Barcelona to show devices capable of handling using the LTE
technology rolled out in the U.S. about a year ago, starting
with Germany, Europe’s biggest wireless market.  LTE offers higher up- and download speeds and latency, or
response time, that’s three times quicker on average than
previous technology. Vodafone, which will be first to the German
market on March 1 with  HTC Corp.’s (2489)  Velocity LTE smartphone,
plans to add 10 euros and extra data volume to its top two
tariffs.  When European operators, including  Deutsche Telekom (DTE)  and
Vodafone, spent about 50 billion euros on licenses in 2000 for
LTE predecessor UMTS, profits were years away as the networks
weren’t opened to the public until 2004 and high-bandwidth
applications weren’t widely consumed. This time, phone companies
are hoping to recoup their investments much sooner.  German operators, including  Royal KPN NV’s (KPN)  E-Plus division,
poured almost 4.4 billion euros into mobile-phone frequencies in
2010, with some spectrum converted from analogue television use.  Vodafone was little changed in London trading at 4:21 p.m.
The shares have dropped 4 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in Barcelona via 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  