-- Volkswagen Said to Be Poised to Buy Remaining Porsche Stake
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l ,   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 2012-02-27T16:59:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/volkswagen-said-to-be-close-to-agreement-on-buying-remaining-porsche-stake.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW3) ,  Europe ’s largest
carmaker, is closing in on a deal to purchase the remaining 50.1
percent stake in Porsche SE’s automotive business that it does
not already own, people familiar with the matter said.  Approval from German tax authorities is one of the hurdles
to an agreement, which VW and  Porsche (PAH3)  are still negotiating, the
people said, declining to be identified discussing private
talks. VW may announce the plan within the next two weeks, the
people said.  VW (VOW3)  is considering setting up an umbrella company to
purchase the stake, according to one of the people.  VW has considered alternatives to a 2009 agreement, which
called for a full merger by the end of 2011, after lawsuits
against Porsche in the U.S. and  Germany  complicated the
company’s valuation. VW’s main alternative to the original
merger agreement has been to exercise options to acquire the
remaining stake in Porsche’s automaking business for 3.9 billion
euros ($5.2 billion), leaving Porsche as the holding company for
the 50.7 percent of  Volkswagen’s (VOW3)  common stock that it owns.  The plan currently under consideration would allow VW to
fully integrate  Porsche (PAH3) ’s carmaking business, of which it
already owns 49.9 percent, while leaving the listed Porsche
holding company to take legal responsibility for the outcome of
the lawsuits. VW’s supervisory board met today and discussed the
possible agreement, one of the people said.  Shares Rise  “For VW, this would be a good deal,” said  Arndt Ellinghorst , a London-based Credit Suisse analyst, who has an
“outperform” rating on both carmakers. “Integrating the
operating business would help them work closer together. For
Porsche shareholders, they still have the legal risk.”  Porsche  rose  1.52 euros, or 3.1 percent, to 50.07 euros in
Frankfurt trading today. The stock has gained 21 percent this
year, valuing the sports-car maker at 15.3 billion euros.
Wolfsburg, Germany-based VW fell 0.7 percent to 138.35 euros.  “VW is working on creating an integrated automobile
company with Porsche under commercially sensible conditions and
as quickly as possible,” said Marco Dalan, a VW spokesman,
declining further comment. Wolfgang Glabus, a Porsche spokesman
in Stuttgart, said the company is continuing to work toward an
agreement.  Exercising Options  VW cannot exercise the options until Nov. 15, 2012, when
they would trigger a tax bill of an estimated 1 billion euros,
overwhelming potential savings from the deal. The taxes would
shrink to zero if the carmaker waits until the second half of
2014 before exercising the options, it has said.  The world’s second-largest carmaker after General Motors
Co. will avoid having to pay the taxes if it completes the
purchase before 2014 by setting up the holding company to
temporarily take control of the stake, German magazine  Der
Spiegel  reported last month, citing unidentified VW managers.  Volkswagen has said that the combination with  Porsche (PAH3)  will
boost profitability and save 700 million euros. VW, whose main
luxury brands include Audi, Lamborghini and Bugatti, makes more
vehicles in a week than  Porsche (PAH3)  does in a year.  The two companies had sought a full-blown merger since
2009, when Porsche failed in a hostile attempt to take over VW,
the sports-car maker’s biggest supplier. Porsche racked up more
than 10 billion euros of debt as it purchased the majority of
VW’s common shares.  Working Closely  The two companies have worked closely with one another
since the attempted takeover of VW.  Martin Winterkorn  serves as
the chief executive officer for VW and Porsche, while Hans Dieter Poetsch is the chief financial officer for both.  Winterkorn is seeking to integrate Porsche’s lucrative
manufacturing operation, which builds the 911 sports car and
Cayenne sport-utility vehicle, into VW to bolster his goal of
surpassing GM. The VW group, which also owns the Skoda and Seat
brands, delivered a record 8.27 million vehicles last year.  Short sellers of VW stock sued Porsche in the U.S.,
claiming it secretly piled up VW shares and later caused the
investors to lose more than $1 billion. Claimants in Germany
have also sought damages, while prosecutors in Stuttgart, where
Porsche is based, are investigating suspicions that the sports-
car maker didn’t adequately inform investors about its plan to
take control of VW. Porsche has repeatedly denied all
allegations of wrongdoing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in  Frankfurt  at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in  London  at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
 Jacqueline Simmons  at +33-1-5365-5055 or  jackiem@bloomberg.net . 