-- Vulcan, Martin Marietta to Face Off in Trial
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2012-02-27T05:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/vulcan-martin-marietta-to-face-off-in-trial.html
Vulcan Materials Co. (VMC)  and hostile
suitor  Martin Marietta Materials Inc. (MLM)  face off in Delaware 
Chancery Court tomorrow in a trial over a $4.7 billion 
takeover that would create the world’s largest producer of 
sand, gravel and crushed stone.  The court’s chief judge, Leo Strine Jr., must decide
whether a 2010 agreement between the companies prohibits Martin
Marietta from offering to buy Vulcan’s public shares and
soliciting votes for five nominees for its board, according to
court papers. Strine also has to say whether the agreement
limits litigation to courts in Delaware. Martin Marietta filed
the case, asking the court to declare that it hasn’t violated
any agreement with Vulcan.  Martin Marietta, based in Raleigh,  North Carolina , offered
on Dec. 12 to exchange half a share for each share of Vulcan and
pay a quarterly dividend equal to 20 cents a Vulcan share to
partly restore the dividend cut to 1 cent last year.  Vulcan Chairman Don James has said Martin Marietta is
trying to take advantage of a construction recession to buy
Vulcan with a “very low-ball” offer. Vulcan has been saddled
with debt and losses after it paid $4.2 billion for Florida Rock
Industries Inc. in 2007 just before the industry slumped.  Vulcan, based in Birmingham,  Alabama , posted net losses in
the past two years and is forecast to lose $48 million this
year, according to Bloomberg data.  Martin Marietta  has reported
profits since at least 1992, and earnings this year are forecast
to be $114 million.  Martin Marietta CEO Ward Nye and James began merger talks
in April 2010 and reached the point of studying transaction
structures and proposing names for the combined company, Martin
Marietta said in a filing to the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  End of Talks  James told the Vulcan board July 8 that the merger
negotiations had ceased, according to a company filing. The
discussions broke down over the amount of cost savings and who
would run the combined company, according to the Martin Marietta
filing.  Vulcan called the hostile offer illegal, claiming that
Martin Marietta obtained “highly sensitive, material, nonpublic
and confidential information” under two agreements, according
to a Dec. 22 statement in which the company formally rejected
the bid.  Martin Marietta said in a Dec. 22 statement there are no
significant regulatory or legal obstacles to completing the
transaction.  Martin Marietta has proposed candidates for five Vulcan
board seats to be filled at the annual shareholders meeting in
May, not enough to control the 11-member board. Vulcan pledged
to sell assets for as much as $500 million to reduce debt and
cut costs by $155 million to rally shareholder support.  Martin Marietta  “An injunction barring Martin Marietta’s exchange offer
and proposal could prevent Vulcan’s stockholders from directly
considering their merits,” a lawyer for Martin Marietta, Robert S. Saunders, wrote in its complaint.  Collins J. Seitz Jr., a lawyer representing Vulcan,
contends in court papers that Martin Marietta’s bid constitutes
an unlawful scheme to seize control of the company.  “Martin Marietta’s conduct constitutes not only breaches
of express contractual obligations, but it offends basic
principles of business ethics and fair dealing as well,” Seitz
wrote.  The  Delaware  lawsuit is one of at least four being pursued
in three states over the deal.  In a case filed Dec. 27 in federal court in Birmingham, KBC
Asset Management NV, with more than 44,000 Vulcan shares,
contends the offer is a good one in light of poor recent company
performance. KBC asked a judge to order meaningful negotiations.  Multiple Cases  Vulcan sued in the same Alabama court Dec. 19 asking a
judge to block the takeover. Martin Marietta also sued Vulcan
Dec. 12 in Superior Court in Trenton,  New Jersey , with
allegations similar to those in Delaware. trading  Martin Marietta fell 14 cents to $87.73 Feb. 24 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading, valuing the deal at about
$43.87 per share. Vulcan fell 23 cents to $46.17.  The case is Martin Marietta Materials v. Vulcan Materials,
CA7102, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Black  in  Dallas 
at   tblack@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 