-- Watson Says FDA Rejects Progesterone Preterm Birth Gel for Ineffectiveness
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-02-27T21:10:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/watson-says-fda-rejects-progesterone-preterm-birth-gel-for-ineffectiveness.html
Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI) , the
second-biggest U.S. generic-drug maker, failed to win approval
for its progesterone gel to prevent preterm birth.  The  Food and Drug Administration  asked for more information
about the gel to prevent early births in women with short
cervixes, the company said today. Watson failed last month to
win the backing of an advisory panel that said studies didn’t
adequately prove the gel was effective.  An FDA staff report released ahead of the panel determined
the treatment from Parsippany, New Jersey-based Watson didn’t
work in the  U.S. population . The gel is sold in the U.S. as
Crinone as part of an infertility treatment. Management had
suggested peak sales in preterm birth prevention may reach as
high as $275 million,  Michael Tong , a senior analyst with  Wells
Fargo & Co . in New York, said in a note to clients Jan. 17.  The complete response letter from the FDA said the effect
of the gel in reducing preterm birth “did not meet the level of
statistical significance generally expected to support the
approval of the product in the U.S. market from a single
trial,” according to the statement from Watson.  Watson developed the gel in partnership with  Columbia
Laboratories Inc. (CBRX)  The Livingston, New Jersey-based company
transferred full rights and regulatory responsibility on Feb. 10
to Watson, according to a statement from the companies. Mylan
Inc., based in Canonsburg,  Pennsylvania , is the biggest U.S.
maker of generic drugs.  Columbia Labs fell 6.9 percent to 68 cents at 4 p.m. in  New
York . Watson fell less than one percent, or 23 cents, to $57.94.  Viable Path  Watson plans to work with the FDA and has requested a
meeting with regulators to determine if a viable path to
approval exists. The agency said additional clinical work would
be required, according to the statement.  In a clinical trial, 16.8 percent of U.S. patients using
Watson’s gel experienced preterm birth before 33 weeks of
pregnancy compared with 19.2 percent using placebo, not a
statistically significant difference, FDA staff said.  A global study found a statistically significant reduction
in preterm birth compared with placebo of 8.9 percent versus
15.2 percent, according to a report from Columbia Labs. The
study, the third of three phases usually required for regulatory
approval, involved 465 women, including six who dropped out, in
10 countries, Columbia Labs and Watson said.  Preterm birth  affects 10 percent to 12 percent of
pregnancies in the U.S., according to Columbia Labs. A baby born
before 37 weeks is considered preterm. Columbia Labs, in
agreement with the FDA, sought to determine whether the gel
worked before 33 weeks.  The safety of the gel was similar to a placebo, according
to the FDA staff report. There were no maternal deaths in either
the group using the gel or the placebo and the rates of fetal,
neonatal and infant deaths were similar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in  Washington  at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 