-- Self-Interest Spurs Society’s ‘Elite’ to Lie, Cheat on Tasks, Study Finds
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-02-28T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/wealthier-people-more-likely-than-poorer-to-lie-or-cheat-researchers-find.html
Are society’s most noble actors
found within society’s nobility?  That question spurred  Paul Piff , a Ph.D. candidate in
psychology at the  University of California , Berkeley, to explore
whether higher social class is linked to higher ideals, he said
in a telephone interview.  The answer Piff found after conducting seven different
experiments is: no. The pursuit of self-interest is a
“fundamental motive among society’s elite, and the increased
want associated with greater wealth and status can promote
wrongdoing,” Piff and his colleagues wrote yesterday in the
 Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences .  The “upper class,” as defined by the study, were more
likely to break the law while driving, take candy from children,
lie in negotiation, cheat to raise their odds of winning a prize 
and endorse unethical behavior at work, the research found. The 
solution, Piff said, is to find a way to increase empathy among 
wealthier people.  “It’s not that the rich are innately bad, but as you rise
in the ranks -- whether as a person or a nonhuman primate -- you
become more self-focused,” Piff said. “You can change that by
reminding upper-class people of the needs of others. That may
not be their default, but have them do it is sufficient to
increase their patterns of altruistic behavior.”  That theory will be the basis of his next study. Piff is
curious to know how to change patterns of greed and selfishness
when they emerge.  Ethics Courses  Previous research has shown that students who take
economics classes are more likely to describe greed as good.
Pairing ethics courses with economics may be beneficial, Piff
said.  “It might be as simple as not only stressing individual
performance, but the value of cooperation and improving the
welfare of others,” he said. “That goes a long way.”  In the research reported yesterday, the experiments suggest
at least some wealthier people “perceive greed as positive and
beneficial,” probably as a result of education, personal
independence and the resources they have to deal with
potentially negative consequences, the authors wrote.  While the tests measured only “minor infractions,” that
factor made the results “even more surprising,” Piff said.  One experiment invited 195 adults recruited using 
Craigslist  to play a game in which a computer “rolled dice”
for a chance to win a $50 gift certificate. The numbers each
participant rolled were the same; anyone self-reporting a total
higher than 12 was lying about their score. Those in wealthier
groups were found to be more likely to fib, Piff said.  Risks of Cheating  “A $50 prize is a measly sum to people who make $250,000 a
year,” he said in a telephone interview. “So why are they more
inclined to cheat? For a person with lower socioeconomic status,
that $50 would get you more, and the risks are small.”  Poorer participants may be less likely to cheat because
they must rely more on their community to get by, and thus are
more likely adhere to community standards, Piff said. By
comparison, “upper-class individuals are more self-focused,
they privilege themselves over others, and they engage in self-
interested patterns of behavior,” he said.  In the traffic tests, about one-third of drivers in higher-
status cars cut off other drivers at an intersection watched by
the researchers, about double those in less costly cars.
Additionally, almost half of the more expensive cars didn’t
yield when a pedestrian entered the crosswalk while all of the
lowest-status cars let the pedestrian cross. These experiments
involved 426 vehicles.  Employment Test  Another test asked 108 adults found through  Amazon.com
Inc.’s (AMZN)  work-recruiting website  Mechanical Turk  to assume the
role of an employer negotiating a salary with someone seeking
long-term employment. They were told several things about the
job, including that it would soon be eliminated.  Upper-class
individuals were more likely not to mention to the job-seeker
the temporary nature of the position, the research found.  “Support for free-market capitalism will collapse if those
who do well don’t do good,” said  Arthur Caplan , director of the
Center for Bioethics at the  University of Pennsylvania .
“Rapacious, intolerant, nonempathetic capitalism that says lie,
cheat, steal, it’s only the bottom line that matters -- aside
from being morally repugnant, it’s got a dim future.”  Study Design Criticized  Meredith McGinley , an assistant professor at Chatham
University in Pittsburgh who wasn’t involved in the study, was
critical of how some of the experiments were designed.  The car test complicates the results because having a
flashy car doesn’t necessarily mean the driver is wealthy, said
McGinley, who studies positive social behavior. In the
experiment involving candy, the participants were told they
could have it even though children were waiting for it. They may
have felt they were doing nothing wrong, she said.  In the candy test, 129 undergraduates were manipulated to
view themselves as wealthy or poor. They were then presented
with a jar of individually wrapped candy, which researchers said
would go to children in a nearby lab, though the participants
could take some if they wanted. The undergraduates believing
themselves to be upper income took more than those believing
themselves to be low income, the study found.  Erik Gordon , a business professor at the  University of
Michigan  in  Ann Arbor , wasn’t surprised by the results, he said.  Greed ‘on Upswing’  “Greed has been on the upswing for 20 years,” Gordon said
in a telephone interview. “Wealth or power that comes with high
socioeconomic status means you are indeed enabled to ignore
other people and might think that rules that apply to other
people don’t apply to you.”  Gordon, though, thinks the research has its limits. It
isn’t as much about wealth, he said, as it is about greed, a
behavior that can be changed.  The very wealthy, who “tend to drive 8-year-old cars” and
“don’t wear logos,” may offer a very different profile, he
said, suggesting that the group targeted by Piff’s experiments
with cars are more likely the “nouveau riche.”  To be sure, Piff and his colleagues said there are
exceptions to the associations they found, pointing to  Warren
Buffett , chairman and chief executive officer of Berkshire
Hathaway Inc., who has pledged the majority of his holdings to
the  Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation  and other charities.  Less wealthy individuals also can behave badly, they wrote,
noting the relationship between poverty and violent crime in
previous research.  The study urged further research to determine the
“boundaries” of bad behavior spurred by greed.  Adam Smith , the
18th century author of “The Wealth of Nations,” may provide an
example, as his first book, “The Theory of Moral Sentiments,”
was about ethics.  “A long time ago, you couldn’t leave the university
without having a course in ethics,” Caplan said. “One of the
things college should do is provide you with the moral framework
to operate in a capitalist society. When people ask about the
value of philosophy, I point them there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  