-- Wells Fargo Sells Majority Stake in Overland Advisors Hedge Fund
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2012-02-27T05:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/wells-fargo-sells-majority-stake-in-overland-advisors-hedge-fund.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the largest U.S.
lender by market value, agreed to sell a majority interest in
Overland Advisors LLC to speed the hedge fund’s independence.  The stake will be sold to a new company controlled by Gordy Holterman, Overland’s chief executive officer, and Derek Dunn,
the chief investment officer, Overland said in a Feb. 22 memo
sent to investors and obtained by Bloomberg News. The San
Francisco-based bank will keep a minority interest in the $2.2
billion fund, according to the memo. Terms weren’t disclosed.  Wells Fargo created Overland in January 2010 when it
decided to segregate from the bank a proprietary-trading group
that had managed about $4.3 billion of the company’s capital.
The sale is intended to simplify the ownership structure and
make it easier to attract outside investors, said Laura Fay, a
Wells Fargo spokeswoman.  “The change in ownership is not driven by regulatory
changes or requirements,” Fay said in a phone interview. “It
is simply a realignment of ownership interests that is
consistent with industry standards and client expectations.”  Wells Fargo, responding to rules that seek to curb risk-
taking by banks, is gradually drawing down its  capital  by not
replacing assets when they mature, and has said it expects to
complete the process in 2014. The company has more than $1.6
billion invested in Overland, most of it in a separate account,
while outside investors own about $520 million, according to a
person familiar with the investments who requested anonymity
because the details are private.  Relative Value Fund  Overland, which manages Cayman Islands-based Overland
Relative Value Fund Ltd., is seeking consent for the transaction
from a majority of unaffiliated investors, according to the
memo. Overland said it expects the transaction to be completed
on or about April 1.  The Relative Value Fund gained about 3.6 percent in 2011,
net of a 2 percent management fee and a 20 percent performance
fee, Overland said in a fourth-quarter report to investors. The
fund is up about 3 percent year-to-date, the person said.  Overland is part of Wells Fargo’s Asset Management Group,
which oversees $450 billion and is run by Michael Niedermeyer.
The firm employs about 16 people in the investment team and 27
total, according to a separate report.  The so-called Volcker rule, a provision of the Dodd-Frank
Act that limits risk-taking, would prohibit banks from investing
more than 3 percent of  Tier 1 capital  in  hedge funds  or private-
equity funds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  New York  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 