-- With Gas Tax on Empty U.S. Must Find New Way to Fund Roads: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-02-27T00:00:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/with-gas-tax-on-empty-u-s-must-find-new-way-to-fund-roads-view.html
In 2005, Congress passed a
legislative monstrosity popularly known as the  transportation
bill  that funded  Alaska ’s infamous “ Bridge to Nowhere .”  The bridge was never built, and now the law itself may
finally expire -- after having been extended several times -- at
the end of next month.  Washington  is now arguing over several bad new ways to pay
for transportation infrastructure in the U.S. But despite their
deficiencies, recent proposals from the White House, the Senate
and the House offer a few ideas worth considering as part of a
more ambitious funding bill down the road, when a looming
election isn’t inducing timidity and self-delusion.  Most glaringly, what all three proposals lack is a
realistic or long-term source of funding. The White House  hopes  
to pay for its six-year, $476 billion plan by “ramping down
overseas military operations.” The Senate’s two-year, $109
billion bipartisan measure would invoke such exotic revenue
sources as raiding the Leaking Underground Storage Tank  Trust
Fund , also known as the  LUST Trust Fund , and taxing imported
Malaysian cars.  The five-year, $260 billion plan that  House Republicans  put
forward, meanwhile, envisioned collecting revenue from currently
nonexistent domestic drilling projects and ending guaranteed
funding for mass transit. (That plan -- which Transportation
Secretary Ray LaHood, a Republican,  called  “the worst
transportation bill I’ve ever seen during 35 years of public
service” -- was so egregiously political and unfeasible that
House Republicans now intend to rewrite it.)  Trust Fund Insolvency  The reason everyone is resorting to such sophistry is that
the  Highway Trust Fund , which gets the bulk of its revenue from
a federal excise tax on gasoline of 18.4 cents per gallon, is
nearly bankrupt. Because the tax isn’t adjusted for inflation,
and has been pegged at the same rate since 1993, it has covered
less and less of U.S. transportation spending. The  Congressional
Budget Office  says the trust fund could be insolvent as soon as
October.  Why not just increase the gas tax? Plenty of wise people
have advocated doing just that. The  Simpson-Bowles fiscal-reform
commission  recommended an immediate increase of 15 cents per
gallon. Republican Senators Mike Enzi and  Tom Coburn  have
sensibly suggested indexing the tax to inflation.  Increasing the tax modestly in the short term might make
sense to keep the trust fund solvent. But ultimately the federal
gas tax is an insufficient mechanism. As cars grow more fuel
efficient -- and as the federal government, across a range of
agencies and departments, encourages new sources of energy and
more conservation -- the revenue the tax will produce is certain
to diminish. Not to mention that any action that would increase
gas prices is a political nonstarter: The Obama administration
and numerous Republicans have already  ruled it out .  Finding a sustainable new funding source, then, will take a
combination of creative approaches. The first is technological.
One promising future replacement for the gas tax is a “ vehicle
miles-traveled fee ,” which would use satellite tracking or a
variety of other methods to charge drivers by mileage,
regardless of the fuel they use. The technology required for
widespread use of such a system is years away, and protecting
privacy while monitoring driving habits will be a challenge. But
the concept -- placing the funding burden directly on those who
use the roads -- is a smart one.  In the meantime, the U.S. should encourage experimentation
with other user fees that harness technology, from advanced
electronic tolling to congestion pricing.  Private Investment  Second, Congress should seek out more and better  public-
private partnerships  for construction projects. The House,
Senate and White House proposals all substantially increase cash
for something called the Transportation Infrastructure Finance
and Innovation Act (or  TIFIA ), which provides credit assistance
for big projects that include such partnerships. This is exactly
what we need more of: In its 12 years of operation, according to
a Bloomberg Government legislative analysis, TIFIA has used $8.6
billion in federal money to attract more than $33 billion in
investment. This isn’t free money, but it’s a smart way to
spend.  Finally, the nuts and bolts of transportation funding need
to be modernized. The proposals from both chambers have rightly
prioritized cutting red tape to speed construction -- it now
takes 11 years  to complete  the average transportation project --
and the House is correct to emphasize eliminating earmarks. The
White House plan makes an admirable effort at consolidating the
vast transportation bureaucracy.  Many in Congress have suggested giving states more
flexibility in the way they use federal dollars. Because most
innovations in transportation finance will emerge at the state
or local level, Washington should leverage local investment,
offer ideas and incentives for efficiency, and otherwise try to
avoid being meddlesome.  For now, we reluctantly endorse the Senate’s modest two-
year bill, which the White House also supports. We hope it can
set the stage for a creative and ambitious new plan after the
election -- one that has the courage to embrace new technology,
encourage private development and raise revenue that isn’t
imaginary.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 