-- Yen to Fall 10% Versus Dollar on Ichimoku Cloud Breach: Technical Analysis
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-02-27T16:20:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-27/yen-to-fall-10-versus-dollar-on-ichimoku-cloud-breach-technical-analysis.html
The yen may depreciate as much as 10
percent against the dollar if it closes weaker than its 21-month
moving average after ending last week above a dollar-yen cloud
level, according to Barclays Plc.  The Japanese currency, which strengthened 21 percent
against the dollar in 2010 and 2011, may be reversing that trend
as it has depreciated 5.3 percent this month. The yen last week
weakened to 81.20 per dollar, above dollar-yen’s weekly ichimoku
cloud top at 79.97 yen, and a close at the end of the month
weaker than its 21-month moving average at 80.90 may propel the
currency to decline to 88 per dollar, Jay Govender, a technical
strategist at Barclays in  New York , wrote in a note to clients.  “What we are looking for is a confirmation of the bear
trend in yen,” Govender said in a telephone interview. “While
we’ve had some upside traction in terms of dollar-yen, there are
still a lot of things that need to be done.”  The yen rose 1 percent to 80.38 per dollar at 10:35 a.m. in
New York. It has depreciated 8.1 percent this year for the worst
performance among its nine developed-nation counterparts,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.  The Japanese currency also needs to close above a weekly
pound-yen cloud at 131.25 yen, Govender said. The pound fell 1.1
percent to 127.47 yen today.  Cloudy Forecast  Such bullish weekly cloud bases, which the dollar
experienced last week against the yen, have resulted in a
follow-through in the currency’s appreciation for one, two or
more years in the past 10 years, Govender, along with Jordan Kotick, global head of technical strategy at Barclays, wrote in
the note.  Ichimoku charts are used to predict a currency’s direction
by analyzing the midpoints of historical highs and lows. The
conversion line plots the sum of the highest high and lowest low
over the past nine trading days. The baseline is the same
calculation over the past 26 days.  The cloud refers to the area between the first and second
leading span lines on the chart and is used to show an area
where buy orders may be clustered.  In  technical analysis , investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to forecast changes in a
security, commodity, currency or index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  