-- 
‘Break Them Up’ Strategy Behind Spinoff Surge

-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   Z a c h a r y   M i d e r
-- 
2011-08-05T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/-break-them-up-strategy-entices-kraft-amid-surge-in-spinoffs.html
Corporate spinoffs are headed for the
most active year on record as companies including  Kraft Foods
Inc. (KFT)  and AMR Corp. look for avenues to unlock value from units.  Companies announced 145 spinoffs in the first half of 2011,
the most of any half-year period since Bloomberg began tracking
the data more than a decade ago. At least 17 more have been
disclosed since June 30. The tally, which also includes
decisions by  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  and  ITT Corp. (ITT) , exceeds the total
from all of last year and is rising at an annual pace of 274,
setting the stage to eclipse the record of 230 set in 2006.  “It’s a revision of the corporate business model where
companies would grow to balance out their businesses,” said
 Peter Sorrentino , a senior portfolio manager at Huntington Asset
Advisors in Cincinnati, which oversees $14.8 billion. “Today
there’s a market-implied impediment to that. And if you can’t
get paid for the businesses, you break them up.”  The 162 announcements through yesterday come as the market
for mergers and acquisitions remains slow, removing one route
for companies to shed unwanted divisions. Excluding spinoffs,
companies are on pace to announce about $2.5 trillion of
takeovers this year, down from a peak of $3.8 trillion in 2007,
according to Bloomberg data. There were $2.2 trillion last year.  A global rout in equities that has driven the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index to its worst slump since 2009 also is creating
some incentive to act now as well.  “Companies feel more pressure to review their portfolios
in this environment,” Sorrentino said.  Breakup Game  Kraft, the world’s second-biggest food company, said
yesterday it plans to separate its $16 billion North American
grocery unit to give the Northfield, Illinois-based company’s
larger snack-foods business flexibility to acquire or divest
brands and expand in emerging markets. Chief Executive Officer
Irene Rosenfeld said the split is the “next logical step” in
the company’s evolution.  Alexia Howard , an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
in  New York , said the “strategic rationale for such a move is
strong.”  “Given the different investment priorities and growth
trajectories of the two businesses, it makes a lot of sense,”
Howard said yesterday in a note to clients. “It seems as though
everyone is at the breakup game these days,” she said.  Sara Lee, Ralcorp  Sara Lee Corp. (SLE) , the Downers Grove, Illinois-based maker of
Ball Park hot dogs and Douwe Egberts coffee, decided in January
it would split in two after failing to agree to takeover offers
from suitors.  Ralcorp Holdings Inc. (RAH) , the St. Louis-based maker
of Raisin Bran, found itself in a similar position, saying last
month it plans to spin off Post Foods after failing to sell the
unit to rival foodmakers or private-equity firms.  “We wonder if there is any read across here for companies
like”  Campbell Soup Co. (CPB)  or  HJ Heinz Co. (HNZ) , Howard said.  “You could use one business to fund the other, but the
market just isn’t paying for it,” said Sorrentino. “These
companies want to focus resources and management talent on
faster markets and better products.”  Some of the companies choosing to spin off divisions are
doing so under pressure from activist shareholders.  Ralph Whitworth’s Relational Investors LLC pushed for
changes at industrial products maker ITT and defense contractor
 L-3 Communications Holdings Inc. (LLL)  before those companies
announced spinoffs this year. William Ackman’s Pershing Square
Capital Management LP did the same with liquor and sporting-
goods company  Fortune Brands Inc. (FO) , as did Barry Rosenstein’s
Jana Partners LLC with natural-gas pipeline owner  El Paso Corp. (EP) ,
and Dutch mail carrier  TNT NV. (TNT)  Jana is now pushing for a breakup
of textbook publisher McGraw-Hill Cos.  ITT, American Eagle  ITT is well past the midpoint of its three-way split, CEO
Steven Loranger said in a July 29 call to investors and
analysts. The board approved in January plans to spin off the
water and defense businesses so the White Plains, New York-based
company can focus on the industrial segment.  “Spinning the companies out provides more clarity for
investors of what these businesses generate separately,” said
David Rose, a Wedbush Securities Inc. analyst in  Los Angeles .  American Airlines parent  AMR Corp. (AMR)  decided last month to
divest its American Eagle regional carrier through a planned
spinoff. Fort Worth, Texas-based American, the third-biggest
U.S. carrier, aims to reduce the cost of ferrying passengers
from smaller cities to its hub airports. A separation also would
let Eagle grow by bidding to fly for other major airlines.  “With this deal, American has some understanding of where
they are going to be five years from now and Eagle has a chance
of being a stand-alone company,” said Mike Boyd, president of
consultant Boyd Group International Inc. in Evergreen, Colorado.  Largest Spinoff  The largest separation to be completed this year has been
Marathon Oil’s $13.9 billion spinoff of its Findlay, Ohio-based
refining business.  ConocoPhillips (COP)  also announced plans to spin
off its refining units as energy companies seek to recast
themselves as “pure-play” exploration and production companies
as oil prices in New York earlier this year surpassed $100 a
barrel for the first time since 2008.  “Investors that want to have the commodity-price exposure
can own the exploration and production company,” said Brian Youngberg, an analyst at  Edward Jones  in St. Louis. “Those who
want to invest around an economic rebound and an improvement in
refining margins over time can invest in that business without
having the exposure on the other side.”  BP Plc (BP/) , the London-based operator of the Macondo well that
blew last year in the Gulf of Mexico, “screams most loudly in
terms of needing to be broken apart,” said Ted Harper, who
helps oversee about $6.8 billion in assets at Frost Financial
Management in Houston. BP CEO Robert Dudley has said he is
“open to all kinds of ideas” to build shareholder value.  Alcoa’s Potential  Two pipeline companies, El Paso and Williams Cos., are also
planning to spin off exploration and production businesses. El
Paso, owner of the largest U.S. network of interstate gas
pipelines, said May 24 that it plans to spin off that unit by
the end of the year partly to reduce borrowing costs.  At least 50 of the spinoffs announced this year were in
basic materials industries, including  Mondi Plc (MNDI) ,  Europe ’s
largest maker of office paper.  Lloyd O’Carroll, an analyst with Davenport & Co. LLC in
Richmond, Virginia, said Alcoa Inc., the largest U.S. aluminum
producer, would make a good candidate for separation. Alcoa, an
integrated aluminum maker involved in every stage of production,
has dropped 56 percent in New York trading in the past five
years while the Bloomberg World Mining Index has advanced 53
percent.  “It would be a value-creation event to separate the
downstream businesses which have substantial growth in front of
them,” O’Carroll said.  European Action  The majority of the spinoffs, at least 100, are for
companies based outside the U.S., including 20 in western
Europe, according to Bloomberg data.  Rheinmetall AG (RHM) , the
Dusseldorf, Germany-based machine parts and weapons company,
announced July 29 that it was considering spinning off its car-
components unit to focus on the defense industry.  Fiat SpA (F) , the Turin, Italy-based carmaker that controls
Chrysler Group LLC, spun off its industrial division in January
to allow CEO Sergio Marchionne to focus on the integration of
the two carmakers and foster other auto industry alliances. Fiat
also said at the time that different earnings cycles, capital
requirements and returns on capital argued for the separation.  TNT, now named PostNL NV, in May split off the express
service business, the second-largest in Europe, from the mail
delivery division as demand for traditional mail services
declines.  ‘Greater Reward’  Spinoffs may create opportunities for investors hunting for
mispriced securities, said Joel Greenblatt, who runs Gotham
Asset Management LLC in New York and who writes about investing
in spinoffs in his book, “You Can Be a Stock Market Genius:
Uncovering the Secret Hiding Places of Stock Market Profits.”  In a spinoff, in which a company hands each shareholder a
new share in a divested business unit, “no one has an incentive
to tout it or sell it,” Greenblatt said. “Usually they’re ripe
for mispricing when they come out. Some are overpriced and some
are underpriced.”  That risk, however, can pay off.  “A spinoff isn’t a universal panacea for an
underperforming company,” said Huntington’s Sorrentino. “But
the riskier it is, the greater the potential for reward there
will be.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Mider in 東京 at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Romaine Bostick at 
 rbostick@bloomberg.net  