-- 
AIG Slashes Munis by $5 Billion as Benmosche Builds Mortgage Bond Holdings

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 
2011-08-05T13:54:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/aig-slashes-munis-by-5-billion-as-benmosche-builds-mortgage-bond-holdings.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG)  cut
municipal-debt holdings by about $5 billion and added mortgage
bonds as Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  reshapes the
insurer’s $249.4 billion fixed-income portfolio.  The municipal-bond portfolio fell to $39.3 billion on June
30 from $43.8 billion three months earlier, led by declines in
holdings tied to New York and  California , AIG said in a
regulatory filing yesterday. Residential mortgage-backed
securities jumped 21 percent to $31.4 billion.  Benmosche, 67, is seeking to boost annual returns on New
York-based AIG’s portfolio by as much as $700 million as he
attracts private investors to replace the U.S. Treasury
Department’s majority stake. The insurer has said it has less
use for tax-exempt municipal bonds after losses helped it
accumulate deferred tax assets, which may be used to cut
obligations to the government.  “They can sell the bonds and buy another instrument which
yields higher,” said Gary Pollack, who helps oversee $12
billion as head of fixed-income trading at Deutsche Bank AG’s
Private Wealth Management unit in  New York . AIG’s trades are
large enough to alter the balance in fixed-income markets, he
said. “Munis have been suffering from a lack of supply.”  AIG had $4.9 billion of New York municipal bonds on June
30, compared with $5.5 billion on March 31, the filing shows.
Holdings in California dropped by 10 percent to $5.2 billion.  About half of the $661 million in realized gains from bond
sales in the quarter came from reducing munis. Mark Herr, a
spokesman for AIG, declined to comment.  Munis Rally  AIG locked in gains from a market rally, said Howard Cure,
New York-based director of municipal research for Evercore
Wealth Management LLC, which has $2.8 billion in assets.  Muni bonds had their best second quarter since 1992,
returning 4.45 percent, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s Municipal Master Index. The securities outperformed
corporate debt and Treasuries in the period.  AIG’s general-obligation New York holdings are concentrated
in local governments. Governor  Andrew Cuomo ’s budget cut school
aid by $1.3 billion and capped Medicaid, the federal-state
health-insurance program for the poor, at $15.3 billion. Local
governments that would otherwise have relied on property taxes
to bridge those cuts will have trouble raising them because of a
tax cap approved in June, Cure said.  “Local issuers are a little more vulnerable because the
state has balanced its budget on the backs of local
governments,” he said.  California Debt  California, with the lowest credit rating of any state from
Standard & Poor’s, is typically the largest issuer of U.S.
municipal debt. It didn’t sell any general-obligation bonds in
the second quarter as legislators debated solutions for a $26
billion deficit.  “California is a good sale because they haven’t been
issuing a lot of extra bonds, and the state has richened up,”
said Chris Ryon, who co-manages $6.5 billion in municipal bonds
at Thornburg Investment Management in  Santa Fe ,  New Mexico . “It
makes sense to sell that.”  Budget pressures facing states and municipalities are
forcing governments to raise taxes, cut spending and tap reserve
funds, AIG said in the filing. The insurer “does not expect any
significant defaults in its portfolio holdings of municipal
issuers in the foreseeable future.”  Unrealized gains on AIG’s municipal bond portfolio widened
to $1.59 billion from $1.16 billion on March 31. Residential
mortgage-backed securities widened their unrealized loss to $156
million from $142 million on March 31.  Fair Value  The insurer cites fair values for fixed-income securities,
which reflect fluctuations in market prices. The reductions in
the municipal portfolio included “approximately $5 billion in
sales,” according to the filing.  Yields on benchmark 10-year top-rated tax-exempt municipal
debt are at about 2.5 percent, their lowest since November,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  AIG set a goal of boosting annual returns on its portfolio
after the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  rebuffed Benmosche’s
$15.7 billion offer to buy back a pool of mortgage bonds. The
insurer had built up cash at the end of last year to buy the
bonds, part of a pool called Maiden Lane II that was created to
take the assets off AIG’s books after its 2008 bailout. The Fed
began to auction the bonds in April.  Maiden Lane  Benmosche said in May that he had invested about a third of
the cash slated for buying back Maiden Lane II at yields between
8 percent and 9 percent, without specifying asset classes. The
company purchased some of the Maiden Lane II assets after the
Fed decided to auction them, according to the filing.  Residential mortgage-backed securities purchased in the
second quarter had “experienced deterioration in their  credit
quality  since their issuance,” according to the filing. It’s
“probable” that AIG won’t collect all required interest and
principal payments on the bonds, the insurer said.  About 9 percent of AIG’s bond portfolio was rated below
investment grade as of June 30, compared with 7 percent three
months earlier, according to the filing. AIG said that 3 percent
of its portfolio was unrated.  Subprime Securities  Subprime-mortgage securities have declined about 15 percent
to 20 percent this year, JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts said last
month. The Fed’s since-halted sales of the securities once held
by AIG and  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis have helped drive down
the market.  Losses in prior quarter helped the insurer rack up more
than $25 billion in deferred tax assets through Dec. 31. To use
them, the company must generate profits. The insurer posted
second-quarter net income of $1.84 billion yesterday on
investment income from its stake in AIA Group Ltd., the Asian
business it sold last year in an initial public offering as part
of a plan to repay the government.  The insurer declined 19 cents to $26.21 at 9:46 a.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The company has fallen
about 46 percent this year, compared with the 3.9 percent
decline of the  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index.  AIG was first rescued in September 2008 after losses on
housing-market bets by the Financial Products unit. The bailout
was revised at least four times, swelling to $182.3 billion, to
extend more credit and lower the interest charged.  AIG repaid the last $21 billion it owed the New York Fed
and the Treasury converted its preferred stake into 92 percent
of AIG’s common stock in January. That holding was reduced to 77
percent in May when the government and AIG raised $8.7 billion
in a share sale.  -- With assistance from Brook Sutherland and Jody Shenn in New
York. Editors: Dan Reichl, Pete Young  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  