-- 
Alcatel 76% Drop on Lucent Means Breakup Not French: Real M&A

-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-08-05T16:04:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/alcatel-s-76-drop-since-lucent-means-breakup-value-isn-t-french-real-m-a.html
Alcatel-Lucent SA is giving potential
buyers a chance to acquire its earnings for free with patents
that may be worth as much as the company itself.  Alcatel,  France ’s largest supplier of telecommunications
equipment, lost 30 percent of its market value since reporting
sales that fell short of analysts’ estimates last week. The
Paris-based company now sells for 10.5 times estimated profit,
the lowest valuation in more than a decade, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Alcatel, once worth almost $100 billion
at its peak, has plummeted as it lost money every year since
buying Lucent in 2006. It is now valued at $7.8 billion.  Alcatel’s patents alone may be worth twice as much as the
$4.5 billion that Nortel Networks’ licenses sold for in a
bankruptcy auction in June, according to MKM Partners LP, even
as analysts expect Alcatel’s routers and optical fiber products
to drive a 59 percent share gain. While French regulations and
labor laws make takeovers more difficult, valuing the units
separately and accounting for its 18,800 U.S. patents indicates
Alcatel may be worth $20 billion, Evercore Partners Inc. said.  “The patent portfolio is one of the hidden assets of value
that I don’t think investors have paid much attention to,”
Alkesh Shah, an analyst at Evercore in  New York , said in a
telephone interview. Rather than focusing on Alcatel’s money-
losing operations, investors should be “looking at the next
piece, which is a very large patent portfolio that has actual
value that’s being undervalued by the public market,” he said.  ‘Not Impossible’  “Having Alcatel be an important asset to the country may
make a breakup sale difficult, but not impossible,” he said.  Simon Poulter, a spokesman at Alcatel, declined to comment
on rumors or speculation.  Shares of Alcatel, which traces its roots back to the late
19th century, have fallen every day since its earnings
announcement on July 28, when it reported second-quarter sales
of 3.9 billion euros ($5.6 billion), less than analysts’
estimates. The decline in the past week has wiped out more than
2 billion euros in Alcatel’s market value.  The result erased almost all of Alcatel’s gain this year.
The stock had climbed 55 percent. The MSCI World Technology
Hardware & Equipment Index, which includes Alcatel’s biggest
competitors, fell 1.3 percent over the same span.  Alcatel is now valued at 5.5 billion euros, versus 111
billion euros in September 2000. The losses in the past decade
were exacerbated by its $15.3 billion deal for Lucent
Technologies Inc. in December 2006. Alcatel has plummeted 76
percent since completing the takeover as it reported almost 10
billion euros in net losses, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Breakup Value  Today, shares of Alcatel climbed 3.5 percent to 2.46 euros,
snapping a seven-day losing streak.  With analysts anticipating a return to profit this year,
they now project that shares of Alcatel will rise to 3.79 euros
in the next 12 months, from 2.38 euros yesterday. Alcatel
currently trades at 10.5 times its earnings estimate of 0.23
euros a share in 2011, the data show. That’s the lowest since at
least 2000, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  By applying the multiples of its closest rivals to each of
Alcatel’s units and including the patents, Mike Genovese, a
Greenwich, Connecticut-based analyst at MKM Partners, says the
company is worth even more. On a per-share basis, he estimates
that all of Alcatel’s pieces would add up to 6.51 euros a share,
an almost threefold increase from its current price.  That would imply a market capitalization of 15.1 billion
euros, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “There’s a serious discount for being a collection of
different product areas,” MKM Partners’ Genovese said in a
telephone interview. “The sum-of-the-parts valuation argues
that this company is severely undervalued.”  ‘Strategic Options’  Alcatel is already shopping around parts of the company.
Last month, Alcatel said it is exploring “strategic options”
for its so-called enterprise business, which makes office
telephones and related equipment.  It began considering a sale or an initial public offering
of the business that could raise 1.5 billion euros earlier this
year, people familiar with the plans said in April.  Ericsson AB, which is vying with Alcatel to roll out
fourth-generation mobile-phone networks to serve devices such as
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone, examined Alcatel earlier this year as a
potential target following the divestment of the enterprise
business, according to a person familiar with the plan.  Stockholm-based Ericsson has since decided against pursuing
Alcatel after a review, the person said, who wasn’t authorized
to speak publicly. Ola Rembe, a spokesman for Ericsson, declined
to comment on rumors or speculation.  Patent Portfolio  Alcatel’s patent portfolio, which includes technology to
help mobile-phone service providers manage large numbers of
small base stations, could also be worth $9 billion alone,
double what six companies led by Cupertino, California-based
Apple paid for Nortel’s patents, according to MKM Partners.  The bidding contest ended after 19 rounds with a price that
was five times more than the $900 million that  Google Inc. (GOOG)  of
 Mountain View ,  California , agreed before the process began.  Alcatel, which inherited  Bell Labs  from its Lucent deal,
has 14,000 approved patents as well as applications submitted
for an additional 4,800, according to data compiled by MDB
Capital Group, a  Santa Monica , California-based investment bank
specializing in intellectual property.  Of the 139 publicly traded companies with more than 2,000
patents, Alcatel is one of only three or four specializing in
telecommunications that may be willing to sell their licenses,
said Chris Marlett, MDB Capital’s chief executive officer.  ‘Meaty Stuff’  That’s boosted the value of those patents as companies such
as Apple try to buy more exclusive rights to inventions used in
almost every device from the iPhone to Google’s Android-based
handsets and  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM) ’s Blackberry.  “It’s pretty safe to say that there’s some pretty meaty
stuff in there,” Simon Leopold, an analyst at Morgan Keegan &
Co. in New York, said in a telephone interview of Alcatel’s
patents. “A wealth of inventions all came out” of Bell Labs,
he said. Bell Labs, based in Murray Hill,  New Jersey , was
involved with development of the transistor, lasers, solar cells
and satellite and mobile-phone technology.  According to Evercore’s Shah, Alcatel’s patents could push
the value of its U.S.-traded American depositary receipts above
his price estimate of $10 a share. That’s more than three times
higher than its current value.  While breaking up and selling Alcatel’s pieces may be the
fastest way recoup shareholder losses, France’s policies to
protect local industries and jobs make realizing that value less
likely, according to  Michael Yoshikami , chief executive officer
and founder of YCMNet Advisors, which manages $1.1 billion in
Walnut Creek, California.  National Interest  Alcatel “is the type of company that, because of the space
they’re in, could be broken up into separate business units,”
he said in a telephone interview. “It’s probably the only way
to unlock  shareholder value .”  Still, “There’s always a concern when you have essentially
socialist policies around a company,” he said.  President  Nicolas Sarkozy  created France’s  Strategic
Investment Fund  during the financial crisis in 2008 to invest in
companies considered “strategic” by the government from
“foreign predators.” In 2006, France arranged the marriage of
energy companies Gaz de France SA and Suez SA to ward off a bid
for Suez’s Electrabel unit by Italy’s  Enel SpA. (ENEL)   Jasmeet Chadha, a research associate at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in  London , said its low margins and declining
wireless business also make Alcatel less attractive.  Still, Alcatel’s patents may have more value than the
company itself because buyers can use them as a “weapon” to
fend off emerging competitors to the telecommunications industry
such as Apple and Google, said Evercore’s Shah.  “Companies are just now waking up to the value of
intellectual property,” said MDB Capital’s Marlett. “When you
look at Alcatel, they have one of the largest patent portfolios
out there. Alcatel is definitely one of those companies that has
the opportunity to monetize a lot of it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 