-- 
Alere to Make 230 Million-Pound Hostile Bid for Axis-Shield

-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d   a n d   P h i l   S e r a f i n o
-- 
2011-08-05T15:52:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/alere-to-make-230-million-pound-hostile-bid-for-axis-shield-2-.html
Alere Inc. (ALR) , a U.S. maker of medical
diagnostic tests, will press ahead with a 230 million-pound
($374 million) hostile takeover bid for  Axis-Shield Plc (ASD)  after
the Scottish company spurned the offer.  The 460-pence-a-share cash offer is 37 percent higher than
Axis-Shield’s closing price of 335 pence on July 5, the day
before Alere announced that it had proposed a takeover, the
Waltham, Massachusetts-based company said in a statement today.
Axis-Shield, based in Dundee,  Scotland , repeated today that the
offer is too low.  The bid may prompt other prospective bidders to emerge,
said Sebastien Jantet, an analyst with Investec Securities. A
price of 530 pence a share would be fair, while 550 pence would
be a “knockout price,” he wrote in a report to clients today.  “It looks to us like Alere is trying to take advantage of
the current market turbulence to get Axis on the cheap,” said
Jantet, who recommends buying Axis-Shield shares. “We remain of
the view that Alere is a serious acquirer, but think investors
should hold fire until we hear what Axis has to say and we see
if today’s offer flushes out any further interest.”  Axis-Shield rose 8 pence, or 1.8 percent, to 458 pence at
the 4:30 p.m. close of London trading. The stock has risen 68
percent in the past year. Alere fell $1.34, or 5 percent, to
$25.28 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Potential Bidders  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  and  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  are potential
bidders for Axis-Shield, analysts said last month. Both
companies declined to comment.  Alere made a preliminary approach to Axis-Shield on June 7,
the U.S. company said last month. Axis-Shield rejected the
proposal and declined to enter into talks, Alere said then.
Axis-Shield’s stock jumped above the 460-pence offer price when
the offer was announced July 6, as investors anticipated a
higher bid, and stayed there until this week, when stock markets
plummeted.  “The all-cash offer is highly attractive for Axis-Shield
shareholders, representing a compelling value proposition,”
Alere said in today’s statement. Jefferies & Co. is advising
Alere, which plans to pay for the purchase with its existing
cash, the company said.  Axis-Shield supplies instruments and tests used in doctors’
offices, and makes diagnostic kits for  heart disease , diabetes
and other illnesses.  “The offer fundamentally undervalues the company and its
future prospects,” Axis-Shield said in a statement. “The board
has full confidence in the company’s strategy and management to
continue to deliver significant  shareholder value .” The company
said it will make a further announcement “in due course.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh News at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  