-- 
Allen & Overy Sues Nimbus for Legal Fees From Delayed Initial Share Sale

-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 
2011-08-05T03:31:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/allen-overy-sues-nimbus-for-legal-fees-from-delayed-initial-share-sale.html
Allen & Overy  LLP, the U.K.’s third
most profitable  law firm , sued Nimbus Communications Ltd.,
claiming the Indian media company failed to pay some of its
legal fees after delaying its initial public offering.  Nimbus’s lawyer Chandra Mohan said yesterday that the
parties are in negotiations. The London-based law firm is
seeking $226,490 from Nimbus for breach of contract, according
to its lawsuit filed with the  Singapore  High Court in February.  Allen & Overy -- through its former Singapore joint law
venture with Shook Lin & Bok LLP -- was the legal adviser to
Deutsche Equities India Pte and  Edelweiss Capital Ltd. (EDEL)  on the
proposed share sale. Nimbus was required to pay all legal fees
related to the IPO whether it was completed or not by Nov. 30,
2007, according to the lawsuit.  While Mumbai-based Nimbus has paid Allen & Overy $150,000,
an agreed fee cap was voided after the company missed deadlines
to file its draft prospectus to the Indian regulator and
complete the share sale, according to court filings. The law
firm’s fees ranged from $180 an hour for a paralegal to $675 for
a partner.  Nimbus hasn’t filed its response, Mohan said. Ken Aboud,
Allen & Overy’s managing partner in Singapore, declined to
comment on the lawsuit.  At least 95 companies have pending draft offer documents
with  India ’s regulator seeking approval for share sales. Indian
companies have raised about 267 billion rupees ($6 billion) in
domestic share sales this year, less than half the amount they
collected in the same period in 2010.  Nimbus, which posted a loss of 1.4 billion rupees in the
year ended March 31, 2010, plans to sell 22.1 million shares at
an undisclosed price, according to its draft prospectus dated
Sept. 29 last year.  3i Group Plc (III) , U.K.’s largest publicly traded buyout firm,
 Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  and Oman Investment Fund in 2007 agreed to
invest $125 million in Nimbus, which broadcasts cricket and
other sports events in India.  Edelweiss, Macquarie Capital Advisers (India) and  Centrum
Capital Ltd. (CECA)  are listed in the draft prospectus as the lead
managers for Nimbus’s planned listing.  The case is Allen & Overy LLP v Nimbus Communications Ltd.
S101/2011 in the Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  