-- 
Allianz Profit Falls 8.2%, Missing Estimates

-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 
2011-08-05T07:42:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/allianz-profit-falls-8-2-missing-estimates.html
Allianz SE (ALV) ,  Europe ’s biggest insurer,
said second-quarter profit fell 8.2 percent, missing analyst
estimates following writedowns on Greek sovereign bonds.  Net income declined to 1 billion euros ($1.4 billion), the
Munich-based insurer said in a statement today. That compares
with the 1.28 billion-euro average estimate of 10 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Allianz wrote down its Greek debt
holdings by 326 million euros at the end of June.  Allianz, led by Chief Executive Officer Michael Diekmann,
56, reiterated its full-year operating profit forecast of 7.5
billion euros to 8.5 billion euros. The insurer followed  Munich
Re  in writing down Greek  government bonds  to “market values,”
after signing the Institute of International Finance’s rescue
proposal last month.  “It looks like Allianz’s operating business is doing
well,” said  Christian Muschick , a Frankfurt-based analyst with
Silvia Quandt Research. “Compared to Axa’s results, Allianz is
still a few steps ahead because of the better quality of its
investment portfolio.”  Allianz fell as much as 4.5 percent and was down 2.6
percent at 80.70 euros as of 9:39 a.m. in Frankfurt trading,
cutting the firm’s market value to 36.5 billion euros. The 28-
company Bloomberg Europe 500 Insurance Index dropped 2.2
percent.  Greek Writedown  Munich Re, the world’s biggest reinsurer, yesterday said
the Greek debt writedown cut second-quarter profit by 125
million euros.  Axa SA (CS) , Europe’s second-biggest insurer, yesterday booked a
92 million-euro net impairment in the first half on its Greek
sovereign-debt, following BNP Paribas, Societe Generale SA and
Deutsche Bank AG in writing down its holdings. The IIF’s plan
requires investors to take a 21 percent loss on holdings that
mature by 2020.  First-half operating profit at Allianz was 3.96 billion
euros after the second-quarter figure was unchanged at 2.3
billion euros from a year earlier.  “The results are remarkably solid considering the high
level of natural catastrophe events, the uncertainty of the
capital markets, currency fluctuations and, last but not least,
the current impairment of our Greek sovereign bond portfolio,”
Diekmann said in the statement. “I am confident we can achieve
our 2011 operating profit target.”  Combined Ratio  Paris-based Axa yesterday reported that first-half profit
more than quadrupled on gains from asset disposals in  China ,
 Australia  and  New Zealand . Chief Executive Officer Henri de Castries is banking on  Asia  to drive growth. He set a 2015
target in June to reach annual operating profit of more than 6
billion euros compared with 3.88 billion euros last year.  Prudential Plc (PRU) , the U.K.’s biggest insurer by market value,
said today that first-half profit rose 25 percent to 1.06
billion pounds ($1.7 billion) on faster growth at its Asian and
U.S. units.  Allianz’s property and casualty unit, the biggest earnings
contributor, reported a 16 percent increase in second-quarter
operating profit to 1.33 billion euros.  The unit’s spending on claims and other costs as a
percentage of premiums, also known as the combined ratio,
improved to 95 percent from 96.3 percent a year ago. A ratio
above 100 percent means a loss from underwriting.  Net Inflows  Operating profit at the life- and health-insurance division
dropped 18 percent to 679 million euros, reflecting the Greek
sovereign bond impairments, Allianz said.  The company’s asset-management unit, which includes  Newport
Beach , California-based  Pacific Investment Management Co. ,
posted a 2.3 percent gain in operating profit to 528 million
euros. Allianz Global Investors had net inflows of 21.1 billion
euros in the quarter, compared with 22.6 billion euros a year
earlier.  Rival Axa reported 23 billion euros in outflows at its
asset management units in the first half, mostly from
institutional clients withdrawing funds at New York-based
AllianceBernstein.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich Bureau at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  