-- 
Alzheimer’s Research Among Science Efforts at Stake in Debt Deal

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o   a n d   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-08-05T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/alzheimer-s-research-among-science-efforts-at-stake-in-debt-deal.html
Prospective government spending cuts
may slow  Alzheimer’s disease  research, stunt the careers of
young scientists and prevent the U.S. from working with allies 
on alternate energy, scientists and lobbyists say.  If Congress doesn’t approve $1.5 trillion in savings by
Christmas, a broad swath of federal programs will be
automatically slashed, including the  National Institutes of
Health , which funds medical research; the  National Science
Foundation , which pays for basic science; and the  Department of
Energy , which runs national laboratories.  “With the rest of the world putting money into science and
technology, why are we going in the other direction?” asked
Michael Lubell, the director of public affairs for the  American
Physical Society , in a telephone interview. “We talk about  job
creation  for the future, this is job destruction.”  In the deal reached earlier this week that increased the
U.S. debt limit, lawmakers agreed to threaten funding for the
NIH, the Pentagon and hundreds more government agencies with
potentially deep cuts in hopes of forcing themselves to make
difficult decisions on lowering the  budget deficit . The
agreement created a special committee of six Republicans and six
Democrats -- yet to be named -- to come up with the $1.5
trillion in budget savings. If that effort fails to make it
through Congress, automatic cuts totaling $1.2 trillion would
kick in, starting in 2013. Defense spending would be reduced by
9.1 percent while non-defense programs would be targeted for a
7.9 percent cut.  ‘So Unimaginable’  The automatic cuts “were intentionally designed to be so
large, so unimaginable, so irresponsible that Congress would be
incented to approve the select committee recommendations,” said
Senator  Jon Kyl , an Arizona Republican.  A 7.9 percent cut for NIH would be the largest in the
agency’s history, amounting to about a $2.5 billion reduction in
2013. By comparison, the agency was cut $317 million this year.  For the NIH and other agencies whose budgets must be
approved each year by Congress, those cuts would come on top of
reductions lawmakers also agreed to as part of the debt-limit
deal.  “I’m personally worried about the NIH,” said  Patrick
Clemins , a policy and budget director at the  American
Association  for the Advancement of Science. “It’s got a huge
budget, so it’s going to get a lot of attention.”  Scientists Affected  The 325,000 scientists supported by the agency may see
fewer and smaller research grants, said  Ira Loss , an analyst at
Washington Analysis LLC, while companies that make  laboratory
equipment  would likely see demand for their wares diminish.  “It could affect money spent on clinical trials for  cancer
research  and all sorts of other projects the NIH is involved in
trying to make our country healthier,” said Loss, who has
followed the health-care industry for more than 30 years.  New grant proposals likely would be slashed
disproportionately, said  Randy Schekman , a professor of
molecular and cell biology at the  University of California ,
Berkeley. This would prove hard on young scientists, because
limited money tends to go to investigators with a history of
successful testing, he said.  What’s more, the threat of smaller future budgets can
affect research now, said David Pugach, a lobbyist for the
advocacy arm of the  American Cancer Society . Scientists may
decide to save money if they are worried about grants. If
there’s less money to go around, he said, some will likely opt
for more conservative research that is likely to show the
progress often needed to win additional funding.  New Medicines  Public-sector researchers, who get about 70 percent of
their funding from the U.S. government, contributed to the
discovery of as many as 1 in 5 medicines approved by the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration from 1990 to 2007, according to a
study published in February in the  New England Journal of
Medicine.   Investigators into  Alzheimer’s disease  receive funding
through the NIH to study such matters as risk factors for the
illness, how to prevent it and the basic science necessary to
create treatments for a disease with no known cure. New studies
on these fronts may be threatened cuts in NIH funding, and older
studies might not be extended, said Robert Egge, the Alzheimer’s
Association’s vice president for public policy and advocacy.  “We think there are ways to cut costs that compound
problems down the road,” Egge said.  Cost of Care  Without any preventive measures, aggregate payments for
health care for Alzheimer sufferers are projected to increase
from $183 billion in 2011 to $1.1 trillion in 2050, with
Medicare and Medicaid, the government health programs for the
elderly and poor, covering about 70 percent of the cost,
according to a  study  by Egge’s group.  Projects wholly or partly funded by the government that may
be threatened by the automatic-cut mechanism are some of the
next-generation physics projects, according to the American
Physical Society, a nonprofit organization of 48,000 physicists.
These include the  James Webb Space Telescope , the successor to
the Hubble Space Telescope; participation in ITER, an
international collaboration building the world’s largest nuclear
fusion reactor; the  Deep Underground Science and Engineering
Laboratory , which is meant to study the most abundant material
in the universe, dark matter; and the  Facility for Rare Isotope
Beams , meant to help scientists better understand nuclear
astrophysics.  The automatic cuts dangling over Congress’s head are so
large and would affect so many popular programs that many in
Washington doubt they would be sustained. One reason they
wouldn’t take effect until January 2013 is to give lawmakers a
year to reconsider them.  Support for NIH  In that period, the NIH could draw on the bipartisan
support it long has enjoyed in Congress.  A largely Republican-
controlled Congress about doubled the agency’s budget from 1998
to 2003.  The threat of deep cuts to medical research may help
lawmakers forge an agreement that avoids the automatic
reduction, said former Representative  James Walsh , a New York
Republican.  “We all had constituents who have cancer and  heart disease 
and childhood diabetes -- and they are very effective
advocates,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Meszoly at 
 rmeszoly@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the editor responsible for this
Reg Gale in New York at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  