-- 
Amaranth Suit Against JPMorgan Chase Dismissed by Judge

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-08-05T20:19:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/amaranth-suit-against-jpmorgan-chase-dismissed-by-n-y-judge.html
Amaranth Advisors LLC, the
commodities fund that collapsed in 2006, can’t proceed with a
lawsuit claiming  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  executives helped cause
its demise by sabotaging a bailout by Citadel Investment Group
LLC, a judge ruled.  The hedge fund, which lost $2 billion in September 2006 on
natural gas futures and derivatives bets that went awry, can’t
press its claim that JPMorgan officials interfered with its
Citadel deal by casting aspersions on Amaranth’s financial
condition, New York Supreme Court Judge O. Peter Sherwood
concluded.  Amaranth officials can’t prove two JPMorgan executives’
statements were the reason Citadel officials decided to cancel
the bailout effort, Sherwood said in a nine-page ruling today.  “We disagree with the court’s conclusion and plan to
appeal,”  J.B. Heaton , a Chicago-based lawyer for Amaranth, said
in a telephone interview.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a JPMorgan
spokeswoman, didn’t immediately return a call for comment on
Sherwood’s ruling.  Amaranth officials alleged in the 2007 suit that JPMorgan
sought to force it into default on a margin call to obtain
collateral Amaranth had posted with the bank. Amaranth tried to
stave off its collapse by unloading its bets to other hedge
funds, including Citadel and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , according
to court filings.  ‘Not as Solvent’  Fund officials allege Steve Black and  Bill Winters , two
JPMorgan officials warned Citadel offices that “Amaranth is not
as solvent as they are telling you they are,” according to
Sherwood’s decision.  Amaranth executives alleged those statements amounted to
interference with an oral agreement the fund’s officials reached
with Citadel, court filings show.  An appeals court threw out the rest of Amaranth’s claims in
the suit in 2009. The court sent the case back to Sherwood to
consider the so-called “tortuous interference claim.”  Citadel “conducted its own research in connection with the
proposed transaction with the fund and evidence of the
tenuousness of the fund’s financial condition was readily
available,” the judge said in today’s ruling.  The case is Amaranth LLC v. JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
603756/2007, New York state  Supreme Court , New York County
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Karen Freifeld in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  