-- 
Amazon Puts $3 Million Into Campaign to Fight California Tax

-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-08-05T21:45:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/amazon-puts-3-million-into-campaign-to-repeal-california-law.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the world’s largest
online retailer, contributed $3 million last month to an effort
to repeal a California law that requires it to collect sales
taxes on transactions in the state, according to a campaign-
finance filing.  The Seattle-based company was the only donor in the period
ended July 29 to the campaign committee  More Jobs Not Taxes ,
which is gathering signatures for a June 2012 ballot measure
aimed at quashing the tax requirement, the filing shows.  Amazon has fought attempts by  New York ,  Texas ,  Rhode Island 
and  North Carolina  to force it to collect sales taxes on
purchases, saying the moves infringe on the federal government’s
power to regulate commerce among states. The  California 
Assembly’s budget office estimates the state loses $317 million
a year in uncollected sales taxes for online purchases.  “More Jobs Not Taxes is working with our growing coalition
of taxpayer groups, consumers, small businesses and online
companies to fight back against this ill-conceived tax law that
would kill jobs and undermine our economic recovery,” Ned
Wigglesworth, a spokesman for the campaign, said by e-mail in
response to questions from Bloomberg News.  Amazon spokeswoman Mary Osako did’t immediately respond to
a telephone message requesting comment about the campaign
contribution.  The campaign needs almost 505,000 signatures from
California voters by Sept. 27 to qualify for the ballot.  Wal-Mart Opposition  Retailers including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s
largest retailer, oppose the Amazon-led repeal effort, calling
it a campaign to preserve a tax “loophole.” Backers of an
anti-repeal campaign haven’t filed financial reports, according
to the secretary of state’s website.  The state’s tax administrator, the Board of Equalization,
voted July 26 to begin the process of implementing the tax-
collection law. The panel voted 3-2 to hold a series of meetings
around California to discuss how the tax collections would be
carried out.  Amazon rose $1.22, or 0.6 percent, to $202.70 at 4 p.m. New
York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. Wal-Mart rose 75 cents, or
1.5 percent, to $50.85 in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  