-- 
Hamptons Scene: Soros Oysters, Steinways by the Beach, Ping Pong

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-08-06T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/hamptons-scene-annaliese-soros-serves-oysters-marcus-salmon-at-pianofest.html
Sitting on a porch near the Atlantic
Ocean,  Gleb Ivanov  lifted a glass of  Champagne .  “Let’s toast to Rachmaninoff,” the pianist said.  His companions obliged.  All were students participating in this year’s  Pianofest in
the Hamptons , a highly selective summer program for pianists
between the ages of 18 and 30.  During the year, the students pursue their studies at
Juilliard, Eastman School of Music, Oberlin and other schools.
They compete in international competitions and perform with
professional orchestras.  Life in the Hamptons on  Long Island  is less pressured. The
24 students practice at a house in  East Hampton  filled with 8
Steinways (new ones arrive each year). There is one in the
kitchen and another in the billiards room.  The faculty includes  Awadagin Pratt , who played for
President Obama at the White House and teaches at the College
Conservatory of Music at the University of Cincinnati.  Paul Schenly , head of the piano department at the Cleveland
Institute of Music, founded the program and serves as its
director. His job includes introducing the pianists to their
patrons.  Annaliese Soros, a former wife of hedge-fund billionaire
George Soros and Pianofest board member, held a soiree at Little
Tuscany, her home in Southampton. The pianists played ping pong,
filled up on oysters and played a little Rachmaninoff and
Schubert in the living room.  Goldman Sachs  James and Ellen Marcus hosted an event at their East
Hampton home to honor one of Pianofest’s founders, Norman
Pickering. James Marcus, retired from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
serves on Pianofest’s board. Ellen Marcus is on the board of
Young Concert Artists. Last year, they gave $10 million to fund
a vocal arts program at Juilliard. (They also hosted this
talent-free ex-pianist.)  Lunch was salmon cooked by Pianofest’s dean of students and
resident chef, William McNally.  Guests gathered for a tribute to Pickering, who at 95 still
plays the violin “and a little piano.” During his career as an
engineer and entrepreneur, he invented the Pickering phonograph
cartridge and worked on the design of the Boeing 707 and 747
jets.  So what did he want at his party?  “I wish I could hear someone play the piano,” he said.
“Can anyone play one of Chopin’s nocturnes?”  Ivanov of the Rachmaninoff toast stepped forward and
planted himself at the 1896 Steinway. His fingers hit the keys
and he owned the room.  Pianofest’s public concerts are more formal. The students
avoid shorts.  The final concert of this season will be on Monday, Aug. 8
at 4:30 pm at the Avram Theater in Southampton. The private
party afterward will be at the Water Mill home of Linda Chen, a
real-estate broker at the Corcoran Group, and Robert Sculthorpe,
who is retired from  Morgan Stanley. (MS)   (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 