-- 
Mantega Says Slower Growth Leading Global Economy to ‘Danger Zone’

-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 
2011-08-05T18:13:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/mantega-says-slower-global-growth-leading-to-danger-zone-1-.html
Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said slower global recovery is pushing the world economy
into a “danger zone” that could lead investors to a “herd-
like” selloff.  A global slump has erased more than $4.5 trillion from the
value of equities worldwide since July 26. Brazil’s benchmark
stock index was the biggest decliner among the world’s 20
largest markets yesterday. The Bovespa, which entered a  bear
market  July 27, today reversed early declines to rise 0.4
percent to 52,998.92 at 2:02 p.m. New York time.  “When stocks fall this way, it leads to the loss of wealth
and can spark a herd-like process,” Mantega said in an
interview from  Lima . “The key to this crisis is the
disillusionment with the global economy. This has us in a danger
zone.”  Mantega urged leaders of the developed market, such as the
U.S. and  Europe , to take “concrete steps’” to restore investor
trust and shore-up growth in their economies. The U.S. agreement
on the debt ceiling didn’t bring relief to markets, he added.  “These governments became confused on whether to give more
attention to the debt or economic recovery,” Mantega said. “It
wasn’t the right moment to focus on debt issues.”  ‘Moral Authority’  Rich nations in the Group of 20 have no right to criticize
Brazil for taking steps to stem a rally in its currency, Mantega
said. “These countries are the ones causing the currency
problems,” he said. “They don’t have any moral authority to
speak against currency intervention.”  The real rose 0.2 percent to 1.5842 per dollar at 2:08 p.m.
New York time from 1.5879 yesterday. The currency has
appreciated 46 percent since the end of 2008, the most among 25
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  To ease pressure on the real,  Brazil  has tripled a tax on
bond purchases by foreigners and raised levies on borrowing
abroad. Last week, Mantega slapped a tax on bets against the
dollar in the futures market.  Mantega said Brazil’s economy, which grew at the fastest
pace in more than two decades last year, is no longer
“heated.”  An Aug. 2 government report showed that industrial output
plunged 1.6 percent in June from May, the second-biggest drop in
production since 2008.  Object of Envy  Brazil’s internal market is an object of envy by nations
whose economies are not creating jobs and consumer demand
because of the global crisis, President  Dilma Rousseff  said
today at an event in the city of  Salvador . Brazil cannot allow
those nations to “flood the country with all sorts of
imports,” she said.  The Brazilian economy is stronger than it was at the time
of the Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapse in 2008, Rousseff
added. The country has more than 348 billion reais ($220
billion) in international reserves, 60 percent more than in
2008, she said.  Bank of America cut its 2011 growth forecast for  Latin
America ’s biggest economy to 3.6 percent from 4.1 percent,
according to an Aug. 3 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  