-- 
Apes Climb Skyscrapers, Solve Puzzles; Sex-Slave Ring: Movies

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-08-06T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/apes-climb-skyscrapers-solve-puzzles-sex-slaves-in-bosnia-rick-warner.html
The best performance in “ Rise of the
Planet of the Apes ” is by someone never seen on the screen.  Computer-aided acting whiz Andy Serkis plays Caesar, a
chimpanzee who leads a revolt of brainy apes against humans out
to destroy them in Rupert Wyatt’s smart sci-fi thriller. He
portrays Caesar as a thinking, feeling chimp with sparkling
green eyes that convey pain, compassion and sorrow.  The chimp outshines all the humans in “Planet,” including
 James Franco ’s lackluster turn as a scientist who does risky
genetic testing on apes in order to develop a cure for his
dementia-plagued dad (John Lithgow).  Aping primates in movies has come a long way since 1968,
when Charlton Heston co-starred with men in monkey suits in the
original “ Planet of the Apes .”  Today, performance-capture technology allows filmmakers to
create digital characters that realistically reflect an actor’s
movements and facial expressions. And Serkis, who also played
computerized creatures in  Peter Jackson ’s “Lord of the Rings”
trilogy and “King Kong” remake, has mastered the technique.  Though it features rousing scenes of apes swinging from the
Golden Gate Bridge and climbing San Francisco skyscrapers,
“Rise” isn’t just a special-effects triumph. It’s one of the
few modern spinoffs of a classic film that often surpasses the
original.  Sign Language  After his initial ape experiment for an international  drug
company  goes awry, Franco’s scientist secretly tests a new
brain-enhancing virus on Caesar, a baby chimp he raises as his
own.  Caesar quickly demonstrates extraordinary intelligence --he
learns sign language and can solve complicated puzzles -- but as
he grows bigger and stronger, he also becomes dangerously
aggressive. Banished to a primate center where he’s locked in a
cage or cooped up in a plastic jungle, he revolts against an
abusive handler (Tom Felton) and leads his fellow apes to
freedom.  The resulting war ends with a spectacular showdown on the
 Golden Gate  where the apes overturn a bus and use it as a shield
against cops wielding clubs and machine guns.  Like the original, “Rise” ends with a shock that
virtually guarantees a sequel.  “Rise of the Planet of the Apes,” from 20th Century Fox,
is playing across the U.S. Rating: ***1/2  ‘The Whistleblower’  Sex slaves and United Nations peacekeepers don’t belong in
the same sentence.  Yet their connection is horrifyingly visible in “The
Whistleblower,” a true-life thriller about an American
peacekeeper in postwar Bosnia who uncovers a sex-trafficking
operation involving diplomats, police, private contractors and
UN personnel.  Larysa Kondracki’s first feature explores a disturbing
world of filthy rooms, gruesome torture and slimy traffickers
who view their captive young women as cash cows. “ The
Whistleblower ” is a hard movie to watch, both for its subject
matter and its dramatic flaws.  So much attention is paid to the heroics of Kathy Bolkovac
(Rachel Weisz), whose real muckraking inspired the movie, that
the sex-ring victims come across as interchangeable figures with
Russian accents. While that’s probably all they are to their
sadistic bosses, it would have been nice to develop a few of
their stories.  “The Whistleblower,” from Samuel Goldwyn Films, is
playing in New York,  Washington  and  Los Angeles . Rating: **1/2  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in  New York  at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 