-- 
Arctic Sea Ice May Approach Record Low After Biggest July Melt

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-08-05T11:55:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/arctic-sea-ice-may-approach-record-low-after-biggest-july-melt.html
Arctic sea ice, a benchmark for the
earth’s rising temperature, may approach a record low in
September after its biggest July melt since 2007, researchers at
the U.S.  National Snow and Ice Data Center  said.  Ice covered an average of 7.92 million square kilometers
(3.06 million square miles) of ocean last month, 210,000 square
kilometers less than the average for the same period in 2007,
when there was a record melt season, according to the center.
After a recovery toward the end of the month, an all-time low is
“an outside possibility,” said Walt Meier, an NSIDC scientist.  “It will be another low year, very likely one of the five
lowest,” Meier said today in an e-mail. “One year doesn’t say
too much in and of itself, but the long-term downward trend and
the series of very low years is indicative of a thinner ice
cover and warming temperatures.”  The Arctic ice typically melts until September, before
freezing again through March. Scientists at the Boulder,
Colorado-based center say the declining ice pack is a harbinger
of global warming. By 2030, there may “consistently” be
summers where little or no ice remains on the ocean, Meier said.  “Arctic sea-ice decline is perhaps the best evidence
around that something truly unusual is happening to our
climate,” Ted Scambos, another NSIDC scientist, said in an e-
mail. “Historical records and changes in high Arctic coastal
areas that have been icebound for several thousand years
indicate that this is not just ‘a bad decade to be ice,’ but
something outside the normal range of climate.”  Low Point  The lowest ice extent recorded in data dating back to 1979
was the 4.1 million square kilometers posted on Sept. 16, 2007.
This year’s lowest point will probably be 4.3 million to 5.3
million square kilometers, according to Scambos, who said it was
a “personal estimate.”  The latest melt is in part a result of temperatures in May
through July that were 1.5 degrees Celsius (2.7 Fahrenheit) to
2.5 degrees higher than average, according to Scambos. The most
recent daily data, for Aug. 3, show ice covering 6.57 million
square kilometers, putting it back above the equivalent level in
2007, he said.  Antarctic sea ice, which is much more driven by the wind,
is “slightly” below the average for this time of year,
according to Scambos.  When measuring the extent of the ice, researchers at the
center consider a patch of sea to be ice-covered if 15 percent
of each grid-cell on the map that they analyze is ice. That
means winds as well as melt can curb the extent of ice cover. In
the Arctic, winds from the south can force ice northwards and
compress it, which was a “big factor” in 2007, Scambos said.  This year, “it would take a major shift of winds, or
warming, to really break” the record since satellite
measurements were first taken in 1979, Scambos said. Still, the
trend remains downwards because of warmer summers, he said. “As
summers have warmed, old ice has melted, and less and less ice
of more than a few years old has been retained. Old ice is thick
ice, and can survive one warm season.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  