-- 
Harrisburg Incinerator Draws Interest From Third Bidder as Debt Sinks City

-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 
2011-08-05T19:35:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/harrisburg-incinerator-draws-interest-from-third-bidder-as-debt-sinks-city.html
The Harrisburg Authority, whose
incinerator’s debt burden has driven the Pennsylvania capital to
the brink of bankruptcy, got a third expression of interest in
buying or leasing the plant, board member Bill Cluck said today.  The prospective bidder, whom Cluck declined to identify,
joins the  Lancaster County Solid Waste Management Authority  and
a partnership between New York-based  LambdaStar Infrastructure
Partners LP  and  EQT Infrastructure Ltd. , part of a Stockholm-
based private-equity fund, in showing interest in the energy-
producing incinerator.  The Harrisburg Authority’s board sent dozens of
solicitations to potential public and private bidders in the
waste-management industry last month, and responses were due
today, Cluck said by telephone. A third expression of interest
shows the viability of the plant if debt-free, he said.  “We’ll let them kick the tires and look under the hood,”
Cluck said of the latest prospective bidder.  The Lancaster agency has bid $124 million to buy the
incinerator. LambdaStar is offering $140 million for a 99-year
lease, contingent on also getting control of Harrisburg’s
parking facilities. It would pay $215 million for a 75-year
agreement on the parking system or $195 million for 50 years.  State consultants recommended the sale or lease of both
assets to help the city deal with its debt burden, which is five
times its general-fund budget. The state’s capital is expected
to run out of money in September, jeopardizing $3.3 million in
general-obligation bond payments as well as the city’s payroll.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  