-- 
Asahi Is Said to Bid for New Zealand Beverage Producer Independent Liquor

-- B y   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a   a n d   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 
2011-08-05T09:20:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/asahi-is-said-to-bid-for-new-zealand-beverage-producer-independent-liquor.html
Asahi Group Holdings Ltd.,  Japan ’s
largest brewer by volume, is bidding for New Zealand beverage
maker Independent Liquor, according to two people familiar with
the matter.  Asahi submitted its bid last night, said one of the people,
who declined to be identified because the discussions are
private. The bids, which are due next week, may be for a stake
or the whole company, two people familiar with the situation
said yesterday.  A deal may value Independent Liquor, which is owned by
Unitas Capital Pte. and Sydney-based Pacific Equity Partners, at
about $1.2 billion, including debt, one person said yesterday.
Independent Liquor distributes brands including Woodstock
bourbon, Whyte & Mackay scotch, Carlsberg and Tuborg beers as
well as pre-mixed drinks in  New Zealand  and Australia.  Japanese beverage makers including Asahi and Kirin Holdings
Co., Japan’s biggest by market value, are expanding abroad as
the country’s declining and aging population hurts domestic
demand for beer and soft drinks. A strengthening yen, which hit
a postwar record of 76.25 to the dollar in March, also boosts
Japanese companies’ buying power abroad.  Pacific Equity and CCMP Capital Asia, as  Unitas  was then
known, agreed to take control of Independent in 2006 when they
acquired the company from the family of founder Michael Erceg.  Overseas Acquisitions  The offer was worth NZ$1.25 billion ($1 billion), the
Australian Financial Review reported at the time, citing
unidentified people.  Asahi and Suntory Holdings Ltd. may be among those bidding
for Independent Liquor, the Wall Street Journal reported
yesterday, citing people it didn’t identify. Naoko Tsuda, a
spokeswoman for Suntory, said the company isn’t bidding.  Takayuki Tanaka, a spokesman for Asahi, declined to comment
on whether it’s bidding for Independent Liquor.  Asahi, Japan’s biggest beermaker by sales volume, has been
expanding its beverage businesses in  Australia  and New Zealand.
The Tokyo-based drinks producer acquired the Schweppes brand in
Australia in 2009 for A$1.2 billion ($1.3 billion) to give it
the bottling rights to Pepsi and the country’s second-largest
soft drink operation.  Kirin on Aug. 2 paid 3.95 billion reais ($2.5 billion) to
gain a stake in Schincariol Participacoes e Representacoes SA,
 Brazil ’s second-largest beermaker.  Asahi last month agreed to buy the water and juice
businesses of P&N Beverages Australia Pty Ltd. and New Zealand
drink maker  Charlie’s Group Ltd. (CHA)  for $309 million to expand
overseas as sales growth declines at home.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net ;
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  