-- 
U.S. Stocks Rise on Optimism Over European Debt as Treasuries, Dollar Drop

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 
2011-08-05T20:56:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/asian-stocks-extend-global-slump-on-economy-as-kiwi-oil-commodities-drop.html
Treasuries fell, sending two-year
yields up from a record low, and the dollar weakened as
stronger-than-forecast jobs growth eased concern the nation will
slip into a recession. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  swung in
a 416-point range before closing up 0.5 percent.  Two-year note yields rose three basis points to 0.29
percent and the Dollar Index, a gauge of the currency against
six major peers, lost 0.8 percent to 74.499 as of 4:51 p.m. in
New York. The Dow ended with a gain of 60.93 points at 11,444.61
while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.1 percent to an
eight-month low of 1,199.38. It slid 7.2 percent over five days,
its worst weekly drop since November 2008.  Ten and 30-year Treasuries also declined, pushing yields up
from their lowest levels of the year, after the government said
the U.S. unemployment rate fell to 9.1 percent in July as the
nation added 117,000 jobs. Stocks swung between gains and losses
throughout the day as investors watched developments in  Europe ’s
debt crisis and speculation grew that the American government’s
credit rating will be cut.  “The  bond market ’s telling you things are better than
people thought,” Paul Zemsky, the New York-based head of  asset
allocation  for ING Investment Management, said in a telephone
interview today. “Overall it was a pretty good report," he said
of the Labor Department’s jobs data. "It really shows the U.S.
economy’s nowhere near a recession, so that’s all great news.”  Yields Increase  Ten-year Treasury yields surged 16 basis points to 2.57
percent, while rates on 30-year bonds increased 18 basis points
to 3.85 percent. Both reached the lowest levels since last fall
yesterday. Credit-default swaps protecting  U.S. government debt 
for five years rose to 55.39 basis points from 54.88 yesterday,
according to data provider CMA, still down from a two-year high
of 64.37 on July 28.  Stocks slid to their lows of the day today amid speculation
S&P was close to announcing a reduction in the U.S. AAA credit
ranking. S&P spokesman John Piecuch said in an e-mail that the
ratings company won’t comment on speculation about the U.S.
rating. Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings this week
affirmed their AAA U.S. ratings.  ‘More Cautious’  “The fear of a downgrade will be with us for a while,”
Bruce McCain, who helps oversee $22 billion as chief investment
strategist at the private-banking unit of KeyCorp in  Cleveland ,
said in a telephone interview. “It’s time to become more
cautions, not defensive, but cautious.”  A global slump has erased more than $4.5 trillion from the
value of equities worldwide since July 26. The S&P 500 erased
its gain for 2011 this week and is now down about 4.6 percent
for the year after slumping 11 percent since July 22 in its
worst plunge since the  bull market  began in 2009.  Wall Street  has never been more sure that stocks will rally
in 2011, even as lower-than-estimated data on manufacturing and
service industries fueled concern that the nation will slip back
into a recession. Chief strategists at 13 banks from Barclays
Plc to UBS AG see the  S&P 500  surging 17 percent through Dec.
31, according to the average estimate in a Bloomberg survey.
Their projection that the index will reach 1,401 hasn’t budged
in four weeks.  In today’s trading, Bank of America Corp. dropped 7.5
percent and Citigroup Inc. slumped 3.9 percent as Europe’s debt
crisis and losses linked to souring home loans threatened to
undermine industry earnings. Consumer-staples companies, health-
care providers and utilities in the S&P 500, among groups least-
tied to the economy, rose at least 0.8 percent.  Europe Debt Watch  The S&P 500 surged as much as 1.5 percent in the first five
minutes of trading, then the index erased its gain in less than
20 minutes. Stocks recovered from session lows after Reuters
said the ECB is pressuring Italy to make reforms in exchange for
purchasing the nation’s bonds.  Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi , seeking to prevent Italy
from becoming the next victim of Europe’s debt crisis, vowed to
balance the budget and impose austerity faster than planned. The
moves may pave the way for the ECB to lower the nation’s
borrowing costs by buying its bonds in secondary markets. The
ECB yesterday said it would renew its bond-buying program, and
council member  Luc Coene  said today the lender was ready to act
as soon as governments “take steps.”  While yields on Italian and Spanish debt fell today,
borrowing costs have surged since a July 21 European Union
summit approved a new aid plan for  Greece  and measures to aid
other euro-region countries before they need a bailout.  Italian, Spanish Debt  Italian 10-year bond yields are up 76 basis points since
the summit, while Spanish yields have gained 33 basis points.
The difference between the yield on 10-year Italian bonds and
similar German securities reached 416 basis points today, a
record since the adoption of the single currency. The spread
ended the trading day at 374 basis points.  “If we are able to get policy makers working together like
we did coming out of recession, the market is likely to respond
better," Eric Teal, chief investment officer at First Citizens
Bancshares Inc. in Raleigh,  North Carolina , said in a telephone
interview. His firm manages $4 billion. ‘‘We’re nearing some
capitulation levels here. We’re in that transition process.”  European equities erased losses after the U.S. jobs data,
only to resume declines as concern about the American debt
rating spread. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index sank as much as 3.3
percent before closing 1.8 percent lower.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc tumbled 6.9 percent after
posting a wider-than-expected first-half loss. Allianz SE,
Europe’s biggest insurer, lost 4.5 percent after reporting
second-quarter net income that missed analysts’ estimates.  Worst Week Since ‘08  The Stoxx 600 sank 9.9 percent over the past five days in
its worst weekly plunge since November 2008.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell 3 percent today after
joining the S&P 500 in entering a so-called correction
yesterday, falling more than 10 percent from this year’s high.
Benchmark indexes in  Russia ,  China  and  Turkey  fell at least 2
percent today.  The S&P GSCI Index of 24 commodities rose 0.1 percent today
after climbing more than 1 percent and sliding 2.6 percent
during the day. Gold fell for the second straight day, with
December futures dropping 0.4 percent to $1,651.80 an ounce, as
some investors sold to cover losses in other markets.
Silver slumped, capping the biggest weekly drop in three months.  Oil rose for the first time in six days in  New York  and
curbed the biggest weekly plunge in three months. Crude gained
0.3 percent to $86.88 a barrel and tumbled 9.2 percent this
week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  