-- 
State Jobs Shrink as Austerity Calls Collide With Demands for Employment

-- B y   D a v i d   J .   L y n c h   a n d   J e a n n i n e   A v e r s a
-- 
2011-08-06T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/austerity-calls-collide-with-u-s-voters-demands-for-labor-market-growth.html
Calls by U.S. voters for smaller
deficits are clashing with their demands for more jobs.  As governments at all levels face pressure to cut spending,
thousands of public-sector workers are joining the ranks of the
13.9 million unemployed. In July, 37,000 government jobs were
eliminated, marking the ninth straight month of reduction, a
Labor Department report showed yesterday.  Cuts in spending and jobs by state and local governments
are among the impediments to economic growth, along with the
housing slump and tight credit, Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has said. The fiscal drag may get worse as the federal
government starts reducing deficits after the Aug. 2 agreement
to raise the debt limit, said economist  Mark Vitner .  “What we’ve seen with the debt-ceiling deal is just the
pre-game,” said Vitner, senior economist at Wells Fargo
Securities LLC in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina . “We have so many
more cuts to make.”  A Bloomberg National Poll, conducted June 17-20, found
voters choosing jobs over the deficit or federal spending as
their top concern by 42 percent to 30 percent.  Yet 74 percent of Americans support an amendment to balance
the federal budget, according to a CNN poll conducted July 18-20
by ORC International. Every state except  Vermont  is already
obligated to balance its budget, which explains the early resort
to job reductions.  State governments made the deepest reductions in July,
cutting 23,000 positions, most of them stemming from a partial
government shutdown in Minnesota as legislators sought to close
a $5 billion  budget deficit . The federal government expanded
payrolls for the first time in four months, adding 2,000
workers.  Jobless Rate  The loss of 218,000 government jobs in the first seven
months of this year roughly equals the number of private
positions created in June and July. Vitner said public-sector
job cuts have added about half a percentage point to the
unemployment rate, which was 9.1 percent in July.  Companies added 154,000 workers to payrolls last month,
yesterday’s Labor Department report showed. When public-sector
job losses are included, payrolls expanded by 117,000.  Local governments are cutting back as states reduce aid and
slumping property values reduce  tax revenue .  In  Rhode Island , the city of Central Falls sought
 bankruptcy protection  on Aug. 1 because it doesn’t have enough
money to pay for pensions.  City workers in nearby Providence also are feeling the
squeeze. With the city facing a $110 million budget deficit this
year, teachers agreed to forgo raises for a year, working longer
days for no extra pay and letting 80 jobs go unfilled.
Firefighters, threatened with 75 job reductions, also gave up
raises.  No Pay Raise  “It’s taking money directly out of people’s pockets, but
there were no good or easy solutions left,” said Paul Doughty,
president of the firefighters’ union. “We’re looking at five
years without a pay raise,” he said.  In  Minnesota , Michael Lindholt, a maintenance worker at the
state’s Department of Transportation, was out of work for three
weeks from his $21 a hour job when the state was forced to shut
down because of budget shortfalls.  “When you’re out of three weeks of work it hurts,” he
said. “Bills are not getting paid. You prioritize. You’ve got
to pay rent. You’ve got to put food on the table.”  Higher Gear  Wells Fargo predicts 20,000 to 30,000 additional government
job losses a month through the middle of next year, most at the
state and local levels, Vitner said. Then, the budget tightening
at the federal level will swing into higher gear, he said, as a
result of the measure to raise the debt limit signed by
President  Barack Obama  this week.  Federal spending will decline by $42 billion in the fiscal
year starting Oct. 1, 2012, twice the amount during the previous
12 months, according to the  Congressional Budget Office . The
bill calls for deficit reductions totaling $2.1 trillion over a
decade.  Including indirect jobs lost in the rest of the economy,
the toll could approach 1 million jobs, according to Dean Baker,
an economist with the Center for Economic and Policy Research in
Washington, D.C.  John Herrmann, senior fixed-income strategist with State
Street Global Markets in  Boston , said cuts by state and local
governments would help push the  unemployment rate  to 9.4 percent
by year’s end.  Too Slowly  “We are seeing ongoing cuts in the public sector,” he
said before the Labor Department report. “And the private
sector is growing jobs too slowly to absorb those cuts.”  On  Capitol Hill , some lawmakers say that government jobs
are too plentiful. Representative Jason Chaffetz, a Republican
from  Utah , has proposed legislation authorizing the government
to replace only one of every three workers who leave or retire.  Senator Richard Shelby, a Republican from  Alabama , said at
a July 21 hearing that the financial regulation law known as the
Dodd-Frank Act will create unneeded jobs for bureaucrats.  “Dodd-Frank also will add over 4,000 new government jobs,
many of them very well paid,” Shelby said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Lynch at 
 Dlynch27@bloomberg.net ;
Jeannine Aversa in Washington at 
 javersa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  