-- 
Lawmakers Encourage IRS to Forgo Retroactive Airline Taxes

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   L i s a   C a r u s o
-- 
2011-08-05T14:48:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/lawmakers-encourage-irs-not-to-tax-airline-tickets-retroactively.html
The four top tax legislators in
Congress are asking the  Internal Revenue Service  not to
retroactively collect airline taxes on flight tickets purchased
during the recent lapse in the Federal Aviation Administration’s
taxing authority.  “We encourage you to utilize all your discretion and
authority to extend relief for passengers and airlines with
respect to ticket taxes that were not paid or collected because
of the lapse and provide the industry a three-day period of time
to restart processes to collect the taxes,” according to the
letter, dated yesterday.  It was written by the top two members of the Senate Finance
Committee, Democrat  Max Baucus  of Montana and Republican Orrin Hatch of  Utah , and the top two members of the House Ways and
Means Committee, Republican  Dave Camp  and Democrat Sander Levin,
both of  Michigan .  The IRS didn’t respond immediately today to a request for
comment about how it would handle retroactive taxes for tickets
purchased after July 22.  The FAA’s authority to levy the 7.5 percent tax on airline
tickets, as well as other aviation taxes, lapsed July 22. After
that, most airlines raised their fares by the amount of the
taxes without charging the taxes. Had Congress not acted, the
total forgone taxes would have reached an estimated $1.3 billion
by Sept. 7.  Retroactive Taxes  The Senate voted today to end the shutdown, and President
 Barack Obama  is expected to sign the bill into law. The text of
the bill passed by the House July 20 reinstates the taxes as of
July 23. Enactment was delayed because of disagreements between
the House and the Senate.  In the letter, the tax-writing lawmakers told IRS
Commissioner Douglas Shulman that they are concerned about the
effect that retroactive taxes would have on consumers and the
 airline industry .  “Furthermore, we understand that the IRS has limited
resources -- some of which will be required to restart systems
and processes to begin collecting these taxes again going
forward -- and that the retroactive collection of trust fund
taxes would add further strain to those resources,” they wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Caruso in Washington at 
 lcaruso7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  