-- 
Lawmakers’ Aviation Funding Reprieve Leaves Labor Rules Dispute Unsettled

-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 
2011-08-05T19:54:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/lawmakers-give-aviation-a-reprieve-in-spat-that-idled-thousands.html
Several influential lawmakers stood
in the middle of a dispute over small airports, labor rules and
aviation policy that partially shut the agency tasked with
keeping the nation’s skies safe for travelers.  Congressional leaders agreed yesterday to reopen the
 Federal Aviation Administration , declaring a truce in a
legislative dispute that had forced the layoffs of 4,000 agency
employees and idled 70,000 workers on airport construction
projects nationwide. The Senate today approved a short-term
extension of the FAA’s operating authority, and President  Barack Obama  signed it.  “This agreement does not resolve the important differences
that still remain,” Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said in a
statement. “But I believe we should keep Americans working
while Congress settles its differences.”  The Nevada Democrat’s announcement capped a week of
partisan finger-pointing after lawmakers left town with the
short-term funding dispute unresolved. The impasse began July 20
when the House passed  legislation  that extended FAA operations
and also would end $16.6 million in subsidies for 13 rural
airports. The partial shutdown prevented the FAA from collecting
almost $30 million a day in airline taxes.  Representative John Mica, a Florida Republican who is
chairman of the  House Transportation and Infrastructure
Committee , said insertion of that language was intended to gain
leverage in a House-Senate dispute over broader legislation, a
multiyear authorization of FAA operations.  ‘Negotiating Tactic’  “There is no question it’s a negotiating tactic,” Mica
said in an Aug. 3 telephone interview.  The House’s long-term FAA measure would overturn a National
Mediation Board ruling that unions need win only a majority of
those airline or railroad employees voting in a representation
election instead of a majority of all potentially covered
workers.  Republicans argue that the ruling overturns 75 years of
labor policy in the railroad and airline industries. Democrats
say it brings union organizing policy in line with all other
industries, which are governed by the  National Labor Relations
Board .  Rockefeller, chairman of the Senate Commerce Committee,
complained that Republicans were using the small-airport subsidy
issue to press an “anti-worker” agenda at the behest of  Delta
Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , which is resisting a union-organizing campaign
among its flight attendants.  Holding Jobs ‘Hostage’  “The hard-working men and women affected by this standoff
should never have been furloughed in the first place,” Reid
said in a statement after the Senate cleared the bill. “They
were out of work for two weeks because Republicans were holding
their jobs hostage to try and jam through a favor for the CEO of
one airline.”  Obama on Aug. 3 pointed to the lost flight fees and urged
lawmakers to resolve the dispute. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood likened the inclusion of the rural air service cuts to
“hostage” taking.  “The hostage-takers here are not the  House Republicans ,”
 Ohio  Republican Steve LaTourette shot back at a Capitol Hill
news conference yesterday. He blamed senators of both parties.  The dispute over the 21st short-term extension for the
FAA’s operating authority was simmering as lawmakers debated how
to lift the nation’s $14.3 billion debt ceiling.  Disapproval Rating  That debate sent disapproval of Congress to its highest
level on record, according to a New York Times/CBS News survey.
Eighty-two percent disapprove of the way Congress is handling
its job, and more than four out of five people surveyed said the
debate was more about gaining political advantage than doing
what was best for the country, according to the Times.  House Speaker  John Boehner  of Ohio and other Republicans
said Senate Democrats dawdled for two weeks without taking
action on the House-passed FAA extension measure.  “Senate Democratic leaders chose to play politics rather
than pass the House bill,” Boehner said in an Aug. 3 statement.  Rockefeller said the union-organizing issue isn’t germane
to the FAA measure.  That “is not something the FAA discusses” and “doesn’t
belong in a bill” to authorize the agency, he told reporters.
“That’s between a company and union; it’s not anything to do
with the federal government.”  Small Airports  Republican Senator  Orrin Hatch  of  Utah  blocked compromise
legislation offered by Rockefeller and Texas Republican Kay Bailey Hutchison. Rockefeller’s measure “applied to more small
airports than we offered,” Hatch told  CNN .  LaTourette, displaying pictures of Rockefeller and
Republican Senator  Tom Coburn  of  Oklahoma , yesterday said that
the two senators had the ability to resolve the dispute. It was
Coburn who spurned an offer he delivered for Boehner on Aug. 1
to allow for a “clean extension” of the FAA, LaTourette said.  Coburn objected because his own proposal to cut the rural
operating subsidies had already been agreed to by 87 senators as
part of the Senate’s long-term FAA reauthorization legislation.  LaTourette also pinned blame on Rockefeller.  “Senator Reid was willing to bite this bullet and get it
done, and the objections came from someplace else. I am assuming
it was Senator Rockefeller,” he told reporters.  Aid to Morgantown  Rockefeller, at an Aug. 3 news conference, said his
decision to block the House-passed extension didn’t stem from a
desire to protect aid to the Morgantown airport in his home
state of  West Virginia .  “Of course I care about Morgantown,” Rockefeller said.
The House measure would cut aid to “the fastest-growing airport
in the most prosperous part of the state.”  Still, “that isn’t the point,” Rockefeller said.
Resisting Mica’s “leveraging” to force a change in the labor
rules was more important, he said.  In addition to Morgantown, the airport in rural Ely,
 Nevada , in Reid’s home state, could lose funding under the House
measure.  Reid said LaHood gave him assurances “that the rural
communities whose economies rely on air service will be
protected.”  Existing law allows the transportation secretary to grant
waivers from the subsidy cutoff and the secretary will consider
them on a case-by-case basis, according to an administration
official who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly on the matter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at +1-
   jarowle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this
story: Mark
Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  