-- 
Benmosche May Limit AIG Death-Benefit Wagers After $185 Million Impairment

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-08-05T20:07:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/benmosche-may-limit-aig-death-benefit-wagers-after-185-million-impairment.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
the company 77 percent owned by the U.S. Treasury Department,
may limit investments linked to life insurance policies after
booking an impairment on the assets in the second quarter.  “This is not an area that we’re going to be emphasizing
going forward,” Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  said
today on a conference call with analysts. “We’re just thinking
about how to deal with it.”  So-called life settlements at AIG’s Chartis property-
casualty insurance unit had a carrying value of $4 billion as of
June 30, according to a regulatory filing yesterday. The assets
allow investors to buy insurance policies from individuals and
pay the premiums until that person dies. Investors then receive
the death benefits.  Chartis recorded a $185 million impairment after updating
its process for evaluating insured individuals’ health,
according to the filing. The longer a person lives, the less
profitable the arrangement is for the investor. AIG has
“increased scrutiny” of the assets,  Peter Hancock , CEO of
Chartis, said on the call. For the first six months, the
impairment was $254 million.  “I would not expect charges of this magnitude going
forward,” Hancock said. “On the other hand, I would not expect
it to be zero either.”  Chartis held 5,819 life settlement contracts as of June 30,
according to the filing. Mark Herr, a spokesman for AIG, didn’t
immediately return a message seeking comment.  Secondary Market  The secondary market for U.S. life settlements began in the
1980s when the AIDS epidemic led some patients to sell their
insurance policies to pay for treatment. The industry was valued
at $2 billion in 2001 and, once it became regulated, grew to a
maturity value of $35 billion by 2009, according to Conning &
Co., a Hartford, Connecticut-based research firm.  Benmosche, 67, is reshaping New York-based AIG’s investment
portfolio to boost returns as he attracts private investors to
replace the Treasury’s majority stake. The insurer added to
holdings of residential mortgage-backed securities and cut
municipal bonds in its $249.4 billion fixed-income portfolio in
the second quarter.  Net income in the period was $1.84 billion, compared with a
loss of $2.66 billion a year earlier when the bailed-out company
took charges tied to discontinued operations.  AIG dropped $1.30, or 4.9 percent, to $25.10 at 4:01 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the lowest since
March of last year, as operating profit declined at Chartis and
the SunAmerica life business, the company’s largest units. The
stock has declined by almost half this year.  Bailed Out  AIG was first rescued in September 2008 after losses on
housing-market bets by the Financial Products unit. The bailout
was revised at least four times, swelling to $182.3 billion, to
extend more credit and lower the interest charged.  AIG repaid the last $21 billion it owed the New York Fed
and the Treasury converted its preferred stake into common stock
in January. The holding was reduced in May when the government
and AIG raised $8.7 billion in a share sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  