-- Berkshire Reaps $1 Billion Burlington Payout as Freight Shipments Increase
-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-02-27T14:19:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/berkshire-hathaway-to-get-750-million-dividend-from-railroad-this-month.html
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  took a $1
billion distribution from Burlington Northern  Santa Fe  in the
first quarter, matching the highest quarterly payout since
billionaire  Warren Buffett  acquired the railroad in 2010.  The distribution was declared and paid this month,
Burlington Northern said in a filing today. The  Fort Worth ,
Texas-based carrier paid $2.25 billion in its first 13 months of
ownership.  Buffett is reaping the benefits of an economic recovery
that boosted last year’s volumes to the highest since 2008 on
shipments of containerized goods and drilling-related products.
Full-year operating profit rose 18 percent to $5.31 billion,
from a 2010 value computed by adding profit before and after the
acquisition. Carloads climbed more than 3 percent.  “The traffic’s up and the rates are holding,” said Paul Bingham, economics practice leader at consultant CDM Smith in
Arlington, Virginia. Buffett, 81, has “the ability to take some
more out of it than he could take in 2010.”  Fourth-quarter net income advanced 41 percent. Average
revenue per carload rose to $2,003 last year from $1,786 in the
period of 2010 after the Berkshire purchase. The rail carrier
said volumes increased in its consumer and industrial products
segments as demand for container, petroleum, sand and steel
shipments gained.  Tax Benefits  Berkshire spent $26.5 billion in February 2010 to acquire
the 77.5 percent of Burlington Northern it didn’t already own.
After announcing the buyout, Buffett sold stakes that Omaha,
Nebraska-based Berkshire had acquired in rival railroads  Union
Pacific Corp. (UNP)  and  Norfolk Southern Corp. (NSC)   Buffett has said one of the reasons he prefers takeovers to
minority investments is that Berkshire pays no taxes on
dividends it gets from operating businesses, which contrasts
with the treatment of payouts from stocks.  “In effect, the government is our ‘partner’ twice when we
own part of a business through a stock investment, but only once
when we own at least 80 percent,” Buffett wrote in a  letter  to
shareholders in 2001.  Berkshire said fourth-quarter profit fell 30 percent on
smaller gains from Buffett’s portfolio of derivatives. Net
income declined to $3.05 billion, or $1,846 a share, from $4.38
billion, or $2,656, a year earlier, the company said Feb. 25.  Auto, mineral and chemical shipments are fueling gains in
Burlington Northern’s traffic so far this year. That includes
deliveries of fracking sand to and oil out of the northern U.S.
Bakken region.  ‘Exploding Very Healthily’  Oil and gas-field servicing are “exploding very healthily
for them,” Bingham said in a telephone interview. “In the
west, I think the BN disproportionately benefits from that.”  Burlington plans to increase its  capital spending  11
percent to $3.9 billion this year as the railroad adds
container-shipping capacity at a new facility in  Kansas City ,
 Kansas , and improves coal routes.  The dividend paid by Burlington rose to $2 billion in the
first half of last year from $1 billion in the prior six months.  An index of Burlington’s three largest publicly traded U.S.
competitors has climbed  3 percent  this year through last week,
after advancing 10 percent in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Doss in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  