-- 
Berkshire Profit Jumps on Buffett's Goldman Sachs Investment, Derivatives

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-08-06T04:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/berkshire-profit-rises-on-gain-from-goldman.html
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  said second-
quarter profit rose 74 percent on gains from Chairman  Warren Buffett ’s investment in  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and improved
returns from derivatives.  Net income advanced to $3.42 billion, or $2,072 a Class A
share, from $1.97 billion, or $1,195, a year earlier, the Omaha,
Nebraska-based company said yesterday in a statement. Operating
earnings, which exclude some investment results, were $1,640 a
share, beating the $1,624 average estimate of three analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Buffett, who is also chief executive officer, is seeking
deals with the cash he collects from Goldman Sachs and other
firms that turned to Berkshire when traditional sources of
financing dried up in 2008. The $5 billion investment in New
York-based Goldman Sachs paid annual interest of 10 percent.
Repayment of the funds led to an after-tax gain of about $806
million in the second quarter.  “He was pretty smart,” said  Paul Howard , director of
research at Solstice Investment Research in Glastonbury,
 Connecticut . “When you’re willing to go against what the masses
are doing, that’s when you make your money.”  Book value, a measure of assets minus liabilities, rose in
the three months ended June 30 to $163 billion from $160.1
billion on March 31. Cash holdings climbed to $47.9 billion on
June 30 from $41.2 billion at the end of the first quarter.  Credit-Default Swaps  Credit-default swaps, in which Buffett bets on the solvency
of borrowers, gained $142 million after posting a $320 million
loss a year earlier. The loss on equity derivatives narrowed to
$271 million from $1.8 billion in last year’s second quarter.  Berkshire receives coupons of at least 10 percent on more
than $7 billion that Buffett invested in 2008 in General
Electric Co. and Wm. Wrigley Jr. Co. Buffett’s 2009 investment
in Swiss Reinsurance Co., which was repaid in January, gave
Berkshire a 12 percent dividend.  Buffett agreed in March to buy Lubrizol Corp., an engine-
additives maker, for about $9 billion. That deal, following
Berkshire’s $26.5 billion takeover of railroad Burlington
Northern  Santa Fe  last year, positioned the company to benefit
from an expansion in trade inside the U.S. and internationally.
Buffett has said he’ll consider acquisitions outside the U.S.,
and he visited Korea and  India  this year.  Burlington Northern contributed $690 million in net
earnings in the second quarter, compared with $603 million a
year earlier. The railroad said yesterday it will pay a $750
million dividend this month.  Equity Derivatives  Berkshire has declined 11 percent on the New York Stock
Exchange this year. The company faces a sluggish  U.S. economy ,
declining world equity markets and reinsurance claims tied to
 Japan ’s biggest earthquake.  Berkshire said the equity derivatives loss was due to a
weakening in the  U.S. dollar . Buffett uses the contracts to
place long-term bullish bets on stock indexes in the U.S.,
 Europe  and  Asia .  Buffett’s firm spent $3.62 billion on equities and $2.78
billion on fixed-maturity securities in the quarter. He sold
about $200 million of stocks and $488 million of fixed-income
holdings. The stock portfolio rose to $67.6 billion at the end
of the second quarter from $63.2 billion on March 31, as Buffett
speculates the U.S. will avoid slipping into a second recession.  “I see nothing that indicates any kind of a double dip,”
Buffett said in a Bloomberg Television interview last month. “I
would bet very heavily against that.”  Stock Portfolio  Berkshire’s holdings of stocks it labeled “commercial,
industrial and other” jumped 39 percent in six months to $15.5
billion at the end of the second quarter. Buffett hired former
hedge fund manager Todd Combs last year to help him pick stocks.
Berkshire added a stake in MasterCard Inc. in the first quarter,
the only publicly disclosed addition to its U.S. stockholdings
this year. The company hasn’t filed its second-quarter stocks
statement yet.  Berkshire boosted its holdings of foreign  government
securities  8.7 percent in three months to $13.3 billion on June
30, on an amortized cost basis.  Pretax net investment income, which includes stock
dividends, bond coupons and interest payments on investments in
GE and Wrigley fell 6 percent to $1.4 billion at Berkshire’s
insurance operations.  Underwriting  Insurance underwriting profit swung to a pretax loss of $9
million compared with a gain of $716 million a year earlier. The
gain at Geico fell by about half to $159 million on the higher
frequency of claims and an increase in catastrophe costs as the
U.S. was struck by an above-average number of tornadoes.
Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group, which specializes in large
risks, had a loss of $354 million, compared with a gain of $117
million.  Earnings from Berkshire’s MidAmerican Energy Holdings
decreased 7.7 percent to $215 million as profit slumped at
PacifiCorp., a power-producing unit. PacifiCorp. operates in the
U.S. Northwest, a region where increased hydroelectric and wind
generation helped push down electricity prices.  Pretax earnings at Marmon climbed 25 percent to $273
million. The business, purchased from the Pritzker family in
2008, has operations including railroad tank cars and the
production of wire and cable products. Profit at furniture
stores, jewelry shops and the candy business climbed 64 percent
to $46 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  