-- 
Berlusconi Says G-7 Finance Minister May Meet Within Days

-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 
2011-08-05T20:52:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/berlusconi-says-he-agreed-with-france-s-sarkozy-to-hold-early-g-7-meeting.html
Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  called for finance ministers from the Group of Seven
nations to meet in the coming days as they struggle to calm
concerns that the euro-region debt crisis and global economy
will worsen.  “I can anticipate that we may call in a few days for a G-7
meeting of finance minister that may prepare for a G-8 heads of
state meeting,” Berlusconi told reporters in Rome today,
flanked by Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti . The situation
requires “coordinated intervention by various states, above all
by nations that share the euro.”  His spokesman, Paolo Bonaiuti, said after Berlusconi’s
address that the meeting wasn’t certain and that Italy will seek
backing from France, the current G-7 president, to call for
ministers to meet as soon as possible. “Italy views this
possibility favorably,” Bonaiuti said.  European officials are renewing efforts to stamp out the
region’s debt crisis against the backdrop of a slumping global
stock market. While the rout slowed today on optimism that
faster Italian austerity measures will prompt the  European
Central Bank  to prop up the country’s debt, Berlusconi said
leaders are still facing a “very difficult situation. ”  Berlusconi was speaking after a flurry of phone calls
involving him, French President Nicolas Sarkozy, German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero. Merkel will talk later with U.S. President
 Barack Obama .  G-7 finance ministers were previously due to meet Sept. 9-
10 in Marseille, France.  Some economists questioned what such a summit could
achieve.  “The toolkits the G-7 nations have at their disposal are
almost exhausted,” said David Owen, chief European economist at
Jefferies International Ltd in  London . “Interest rates are
still at record lows so there isn’t much there in terms of
stimulus, the fiscal positions are worse and the banks are in
much worse shape as well. The G-7 basically has its hands tied
and it’s a very serious situation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  