-- 
Bernanke Models Prove Faulty as Forecasts Succumb to Change

-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 
2011-08-05T12:50:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/bernanke-models-prove-faulty-as-fed-forecasts-succumb-to-downward-revision.html
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his
Federal Reserve colleagues are preparing to meet next week as
two-year Treasury yields near a record low signal a  U.S. economy 
on the knife’s edge between growth and contraction.  Guiding their assessment of the outlook for the world’s
largest economy will be forecasts contained in the so-called
Teal Book, a confidential staff report with a blue-green cover.
Policy makers’ confidence in those forecasts may be tempered as
the course of the expansion has confounded their expectations.  Of 12 Fed staff forecasts since the beginning of 2010,
seven have been downward revisions to the near-term outlook,
according to minutes of Federal Open Market Committee meetings.
This year, the outlook was raised in January and lowered three
times since as a stream of data on weakness in employment and
 consumer spending  signaled threats to a recovery from the
deepest recession since the Great Depression.  “We haven’t had any historical event that really would
allow us to reliably statistically calibrate an event like the
one we’ve had,” David Stockton, director of the Fed’s Division
of Research and Statistics, who has overseen forecasting for a
decade, said in an interview at the end of June. “There isn’t
going to be a simple story here.”  Uncertainty can cause central bankers to keep their hands
off the levers of monetary policy and wait for more information,
said Antulio Bomfim, senior managing director at Macroeconomic
Advisers LLC in Washington. When risks to growth stack up, as is
the case now, Fed officials have to be mindful of more severe
scenarios rather than just their baseline outlook, he said.  More Sensitive  “When you are less confident about the forecast, you
become more sensitive to the incoming data,” Bomfim said. With
the economy growing at a 1.3 percent annual rate in the second
quarter and 0.4 percent in the first three months, Fed policy
makers are now “tilting toward easing,” said Bomfim, who
worked at the Fed Board’s divisions of Monetary Affairs and
Research and Statistics from 1992 to 2003. “We don’t think they
will announce an easing action next week, but we think easing is
back on the table.”  The FOMC meets for one day on Aug. 9. At their last meeting
in June, Fed officials decided to keep the central bank’s
balance sheet at a record to spur the slowing economy after
completing $600 billion of bond purchases.  ‘All the Options’  In testimony to Congress last month, Bernanke signaled the
central bank has more tools for easing should the economy
weaken. “We have to keep all the options on the table,” he
said.  That testimony was followed by reports on industrial
production, consumer spending and employment that were weaker
than predicted by economists. The data have also called into
question the forecast of Fed governors for a pickup in growth in
the second half of 2011. Central bankers estimated in June the
economy would grow 2.7 percent to 2.9 percent this year and that
the  unemployment rate  would move down to 8.6 to 8.9 percent in
the fourth quarter.  Employers added 117,000 workers to payrolls in July, more
than forecast by economists, and the unemployment rate
unexpectedly fell to 9.1 percent from 9.2 percent in June, a
Labor Department report showed today.  Treasuries dropped after the report, pushing yields higher.
The yield on the two-year note rose to 0.29 percent at 8:49 a.m.
in New York after falling to a record-low 0.25 percent
yesterday.  Poll Findings  The high jobless rate hasn’t helped Bernanke’s standing
with the public. A Bloomberg National Poll conducted June 17-20
showed Bernanke was viewed favorably by 30 percent of those
polled, compared with 26 percent who view him unfavorably; the
remainder were unsure. In September of 2009, Bernanke enjoyed 41
percent approval and 22 percent disapproval.  Fed staff forecasters have been thrown off by unforeseen
shocks that have rammed the economy, such as the threat of a
European default in April 2010 and higher  oil prices  this April.
Alongside such one-time events are more lasting changes in the
way U.S. consumers and companies behave that Fed officials are
still trying to comprehend.  Every six weeks, Stockton and a team of 50 economists
prepare a forecast that on average looks out eight quarters,
while also giving policy makers a “now-cast” about how the
economy is progressing today. They also generate as many as
seven alternative scenarios that describe how the economy might
underperform or outperform the baseline outlook.  ‘Indispensable’ Staffer  Few people outside of the Fed know Stockton, who has headed
the research division since July 2000. He doesn’t give speeches
or write a blog. His name isn’t a buzzword like “Reinhart and
Rogoff,” a frequently used reference to  Carmen Reinhart , an
economist at the Peterson Institute for International Economics
in  Washington , and Harvard University professor  Kenneth Rogoff ,
the authors of a book on financial crises titled “This Time is
Different.”  Yet former Fed Chairman  Alan Greenspan , in his memoir “The
Age of Turbulence,” called Stockton “the indispensable,
behind-the-scenes staffer.”  On Oct. 1, Stockton, 57, will retire from the Fed after 30
years. He will be succeeded by David Wilcox, 52, a  Massachusetts
Institute of Technology  Ph.D. who has worked at the Fed Board
since 2001. He was an assistant secretary for economic policy at
the Treasury from 1997-2001, and an economist at the White House
Council of Economic Advisers from 1994-1995. Wilcox will lead
the Teal Book discussion at the Aug. 9 meeting.  Stockton calls the 2007-2009 period “an unprecedented
financial crisis in the lives of almost every economic agent.”  “That had profound effects on people’s balance sheets, on
their spending, and their impetus to deleverage,” he said in
the interview. “Something beyond transitory factors are at
work.”  Suite of Models  The suite of models used by Fed staff to forecast changes
in consumption and investment rely to some extent on past
relationships between  interest rates , income, and profits. Most
also assume credit will be supplied and demanded at a given
price or interest rate. Without adjustments, they revert to the
mean -- after a period of slump they begin to point upward, in
line with previous recoveries.  All of those tendencies have made the models less trusty
guideposts for what is happening in the current recovery. The
staff has to venture judgments and explore new analyses.  “Something new and different is going on,” said  Allen Sinai , chief global economist at Decision Economics Inc. in  New
York . “Neither monetary nor fiscal policy is giving us the kind
of bang we have traditionally got. The household sector is
simply not spending as it has in the past.”  Consumer Pessimism  Nowhere have historical patterns gone more off the rails
than in labor markets. Forty-four percent of the unemployed
workers in the U.S. now have been without a job for 27 weeks or
more, near the 45.6 percent peak in May 2010, the highest of any
business cycle in the postwar period.  The persistence of high unemployment, a concern Bernanke
has voiced on several occasions, ripples through the economy. A
high jobless rate reinforces low income expectations and can
result in an enduring trend of pessimism that makes consumer
spending difficult to predict.  One of the indicators Fed staff are watching is the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan survey of income expectations.
The majority of consumers surveyed in June expected no income
increase in the year ahead, as they have in every survey for the
past 30 months. That’s a record, according to Richard Curtin,
director of the survey.  Tsunami Impact  Fed staff are also reviewing production schedules and
contacting auto companies to gauge how the resolution of supply
chain disruptions following the Japanese earthquake and tsunami
in March may lead to higher production of cars and trucks.  That could provide a boost to GDP in the second half. Yet
without follow-on purchases, the cycle of investment spending
and hiring won’t engage. Consumer spending, which decelerated to
a 0.1 annual rate in the second quarter from 2.1 percent the
previous three months, signals trouble on that front.  Ordinarily, monetary policy works by making borrowing
cheaper so households and businesses can access credit and keep
their consumption stable through an economic slump. Now, that
channel is less effective.  Banks have raised lending standards, and the private
sector’s expectations about consumption may be shifting to a
lower path, said  Julia Coronado , chief economist for  North
America  for BNP Paribas in New York, who worked for Stockton
from 1997 to 2005.  “This is a standard-of-living shock,” Coronado said.
“What we thought we could afford, and what we leveraged to, is
much more than we can afford at present and in the future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ; 