-- 
Billionaire Batista’s OSX Offers Banks Higher Rates for $850 Million Loan

-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 
2011-08-05T19:43:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/billionaire-batista-s-osx-offers-banks-higher-rates-for-850-million-loan.html
OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3) , the shipbuilding
startup controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista , is offering to
pay banks more than it originally proposed to take out an $850
million loan, four people familiar with the matter said.  OSX agreed to pay as much as 425 basis points, or 4.25
percentage points, more than the London interbank offered rate
for the 12-year credit compared with the maximum 375 basis
points that the company’s banks proposed when they first
contacted lenders in May, said two of the people, who asked not
to be identified because the transaction isn’t public. OSX,
based in Rio de Janeiro, is also increasing guarantees for the
financing, the people said.  Banco Santander SA, ING Groep NV and Itau Unibanco Holding
SA are leading the transaction. OSX Chief Financial Officer
Roberto Monteiro said the three banks committed to lending the
company the full amount of the loan, and other institutions may
participate, according to an e-mailed statement from the
shipbuilding company. The deal will close in September, he said.  “Small adjustments to the conditions that were initially
proposed are absolutely normal, especially given the current
market conditions”, OSX said in the statement.  The loan is structured as project finance to build
floating-production storage and offloading ships.  OSX’s future revenue depends on orders from sister company
OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA, which has yet to produce
any crude. OGX, Batista’s oil driller, can start production at
the end of October, Monteiro said in  Rio de Janeiro  on July 29.  The three-month U.S. dollar Libor rate was about 0.272
percent today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  