-- 
BofA, Citigroup Slide on Concern Economy, European Debt May Hurt Earnings

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-08-05T17:35:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/bofa-citigroup-slide-on-concern-economy-european-debt-may-hurt-earnings.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  led U.S. bank stocks lower as a weak  U.S. economy , Europe’s
debt crisis and losses linked to souring home loans threaten to
undermine financial industry earnings.  Bank of America, the largest U.S. lender by assets, fell
4.8 percent to $8.41 at 1:12 p.m. in New York, the lowest level
since April 2009. New York-based Citigroup dropped 4.4 percent
to $33.27. The  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  of 24 U.S. financial stocks slid
0.4 percent, declining for 10 of the past 11 days, amid concern
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis may spread.  “There’s concern of a U.S. downgrade and how that leads to
a ripple effect in credit markets, which leads to higher
borrowing costs and an economy that’s not expanding," said Peter Kenny, a managing director in institutional sales at Knight
Capital Group Inc. ‘‘There’s also a sense that the European
crisis is becoming more central to the global economy than ever
before."  Matthew Burnell, an analyst at  Wells Fargo & Co ., cut his
recommendation on Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of
America to ‘‘market perform’’ from ‘‘outperform’’ today because
of lower expectations for the U.S. economy. Bank of America said
yesterday that investor demands it repurchase soured mortgages
may cost more than previously forecast.  Citigroup was subpoenaed by the California Attorney
General’s Office as part of an investigation into mortgage
securitization practices, a person familiar with the matter said
after the close of trading yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  