-- 
Bank of America’s ReconTrust Sued by Washington State Over Foreclosures

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   B r a d   B r o b e r g
-- 
2011-08-05T23:05:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/bofa-s-recontrust-unit-sued-by-washington-state-over-foreclosure-practices.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s ReconTrust
unit failed to conduct foreclosures as a neutral third party as
required by law, Washington state Attorney General Rob McKenna
said in a lawsuit.  ReconTrust, which acted as a trustee handling foreclosures,
had a duty to act in good faith to borrowers as well as lenders,
McKenna said today at a press conference announcing the suit.
ReconTrust also concealed or misrepresented the actual owner of
the debt when handling foreclosures, according to the complaint
filed in state court in Seattle.  The lawsuit follows an investigation of Washington
trustees’ foreclosure practices, including faulty documentation.
McKenna said the lawsuit was filed because ReconTrust didn’t
take corrective actions to change its ways.  “They have left us with no choice,” McKenna said. “We
will have the full attention of ReconTrust and its owner, Bank
of America, and they will be more interested in sitting down and
making things right.”  “ReconTrust operates in compliance with applicable state
and federal laws,”  Jumana Bauwens , a spokeswoman for  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based Bank of America, said in an e-mailed
statement.  “ We disagree with the Attorney General’s concerns on this
issue and will vigorously defend the services of ReconTrust
against this challenge,” she said. “We make every effort to
reach out to delinquent customers to offer home retention
options as well as foreclosure avoidance programs.  Foreclosure
is always our last resort.”  Nonjudicial Foreclosures  Washington is a so-called nonjudicial foreclosure state,
where courts don’t review documents and banks hire trustees to
handle home seizures.  ReconTrust processed deeds that contained “material
misrepresentations,” the attorney general said in the lawsuit.
The company also didn’t maintain an office in  Washington , as
required by state law, McKenna said.  Washington law requires trustees to act in good faith for
all parties, McKenna said.  “ReconTrust looks to the bank for direction and orders
about what it’s supposed to do,” McKenna said.  The state is seeking civil penalties of $2,000 a violation
and the complaint alleges thousands of violations, McKenna said.
The lawsuit also is seeking restitution for homeowners who
unfairly lost their properties.  The bank has “added physical locations” in Washington
“through which we provide face-to-face support for distressed
customers,”  Bauwens said. “We host events specifically for
customers who may be at risk of foreclosure in order to review
all possible solutions to keep them in their home.”  The case is Washington v. ReconTrust Co., 11-26867-5,
Superior Court, King County, Washington ( Seattle ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Brad Broberg in Seattle at  bradbroberg@comcast.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  