-- 
Borgia Pope, Son Threw Orgies With Virility Prizes: Lewis Lapham

-- B y   L e w i s   L a p h a m
-- 
2011-08-06T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/borgia-pope-son-threw-bunga-bunga-orgies-with-macho-prizes-lewis-lapham.html
No one had a better understanding of
the papal machinery than Rodrigo Borgia. A cardinal at age 25,
he served in the Roman Curia under five popes, so when Innocent
VIII died, he knew what to do: Four mules packed with bullion
were sent to a crucial cardinal, and in 1492 Borgia duly became
Alexander VI.  (To listen to the podcast, click  here .)  He didn’t let religion interfere with his lavish lifestyle
and love of family. By the time he ascended to the papacy,
Borgia had fathered eight children with three different women,
and he was especially close to those he’d had with long-time
mistress Vanozza Catanei: Giovanni, Cesare, Lucrezia and
Goffredo, showering them with churchly and secular riches.  Cesare, who may have murdered brother Giovanni and slept
with sister Lucrezia, was equally fond of his old man, inviting
him to parties, most memorably the “Banquet of Chestnuts” with
50 naked prostitutes.  After a nice supper, lamp stands with candles were placed
throughout, chestnuts were tossed around the room, and the women
crawled on their hands and knees to find them. The Pope admired
virility, and prizes of fashionable shoes, doublets and hats
were offered to the top performing men.  I spoke with John Julius Norwich, author of “Absolute
Monarchs: A History of the Papacy,” on the following topics:  1. One Biblical Sentence  2. Moral Blackmail  3. Monsters & Mediocrities  4. Alexander VI  5. Current Papacy  To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  ( Lewis Lapham  is the founder of  Lapham’s Quarterly  and the
former editor of Harper’s magazine. He hosts “The World in
Time” interview series for Bloomberg News.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Lewis Lapham in New York at 
 lhl@laphamsquarterly.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 