-- 
Bovespa Plunge Flashes Warning Sign Brazilian Shares May Continue Tumbling

-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 
2011-08-05T20:51:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/bovespa-plunge-flashes-warning-brazil-shares-may-keep-tumbling.html
Brazil ’s benchmark stock index, the
biggest decliner among the world’s 20 largest markets yesterday,
is the most oversold since just after September 2001’s terrorist
attacks, according to an indicator used in technical analysis.  For  Auerbach Grayson  & Co.’s  Richard Ross , a chartered
market technician with 18 years experience, that’s a warning
sign of further declines, not a signal to buy.  “When you get these oversold levels amidst the backdrop of
a bear market it has to be viewed differently than when you get
oversold readings in a  bull market ,” Ross, Auerbach Grayson’s
global technical strategist in New York, said in a telephone
interview. “It almost confirms the sell signal rather than
piques my contrarian instincts.”  The Bovespa’s 14-day relative strength index, or RSI, sank
to 18 yesterday, below the threshold of 30 that indicates fair
value, according to data on technical analysis compiled by
Bloomberg. The last time the RSI was lower was Sept. 14, 2001,
three days after terrorists crashed two airplanes into the World
Trade Center towers in  New York .  The Bovespa, which entered a bear market on July 27 after
plunging 20 percent from its 12-month peak in November, rose 0.3
percent to 52,949.22 today. The gauge yesterday sank 5.7 percent
to its lowest closing price since July 17, 2009 on disappointing
earnings growth and concern the global economy is slumping.
Brazilian stocks have been showing signs of weakness for almost
two years, Ross said.  “An RSI of 18 is a warning signal of just how weak the
market is and how perilous things could be,” he said.  Index Climbs  In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to forecast changes in a
security, commodity, currency or index.  The Bovespa dropped 28 percent from last year’s peak
through yesterday as inflation accelerated to the fastest since
2005 even after the central bank lifted interest rates eight
times in 15 months.  Companies from Vale SA, the world’s largest iron-ore
producer, to Itau Unibanco Holding SA,  Latin America ’s biggest
bank by market value, have reported second-quarter earnings that
missed analysts’ estimates. Itau’s profit was eroded after the
company set aside more cash to cover an increase in bad loans.  HSBC Holdings Plc sees more defaults from consumers and
small businesses during an upcoming “cooldown” of economic
growth in Brazil, Emilson Alonso, the bank’s head for Latin
America, said yesterday.  Slow Growth  Brazil’s retail default rate will be “a little” higher in
the second half of 2011, he told reporters in Mexico City.  “Brazil is going to be a difficult place to make money in
the medium term,”  Michael Shaoul , chairman of Marketfield Asset
Management in New York, said in a phone interview. His
 Marketfield Fund (MFLDX)  climbed 14 percent in 2010, beating 91 percent
of peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “If we are right and Brazil is entering a period of slower
growth, I think corporate profitability may disappoint for a
number of months and quarters,” he said. “I don’t see this as
a period of weeks. This will be a period of disappointments.”  Billionaire Eike Batista’s mining company MMX Mineracao &
Metalicos SA rose 8 percent today after tumbling 16 percent
yesterday while Petroleo Brasileiro SA, the state-controlled  oil
company , extended its decline, falling 2.3 percent to 20.18
reais, its lowest level since December 2008.  Steelmaker Gerdau SA gained 0.9 percent today after sliding
yesterday the most since January 2009 after reporting earnings
that missed estimates.  Bond Auction  The real strengthened to 1.5781 per  U.S. dollar  today.
Yields on Brazilian interest-rate futures contracts due in
January show traders are betting the central bank may cut
 interest rates  this year for the first time since July 2009 on
speculation the global economy is headed to a slowdown.  The Brazilian government failed to sell most of the fixed-
rate bonds it offered at an auction yesterday on reduced demand
for riskier assets.  After yesterday’s decline, the Bovespa traded at 8.6 times
analysts’ earnings estimates, the lowest level since March 2009,
according to weekly data compiled by Bloomberg.  The index rose 1 percent in 2010, its worst-ever
performance relative to MSCI Inc.’s gauge of 21 developing
nations’ stocks, after rallying 83 percent in 2009 as Brazil
recovered from the global financial crisis.  The last time the Bovespa’s RSI was lower, on Sept. 14,
2001, the index surged 31 percent over the following three
months. When the Bovespa’s RSI sank to 23 on May 20, 2010, the
index rose 15 percent over the next three months.  This time, Ross says, the Bovespa is in a position of
weakness rather than strength, having entered a  bear market .  “It’s all about context,” said Ross, who correctly
predicted last year that gold’s rally would continue. “This
selloff is really an extension of a technical erosion that has
been in the process for the past two years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  