-- 
Bovespa Stock Index Advances, Paring Steepest Weekly Decline Since 2008

-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 
2011-08-05T21:28:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/bovespa-index-gains-first-day-in-five-on-brazil-inflation-u-s-jobs-data.html
Brazilian stocks gained, pushing the
Bovespa index higher for the first time this week, on
speculation the  European Central Bank  may buy Italian and
Spanish bonds to halt the spread of the region’s debt crisis.  The benchmark gauge rose 0.3 percent to 52,949.22 at 4:15
p.m. New York time, trimming the week’s loss to 10 percent,
still its worst weekly performance since November 2008. Forty
stocks rose on the index and 22 declined. The real strengthened
0.6 percent to 1.5781 per dollar.  The Bovespa recovered after Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi , seeking to prevent his country from becoming the
next victim of  Europe ’s debt crisis, vowed to balance the budget
and impose austerity faster than planned as investors flee
Italian bonds. The moves may pave the way for the European
Central Bank to try to bring down  Italy ’s borrowing costs by
buying its bonds in secondary markets. Italian 10-year yields
lost 10 basis points, or 0.10 percentage point, and rates on
Spanish debt decreased 22 points.  “Having more liquidity for these bonds would be a good
step to solve the debt crisis there,” said Rodrigo Mello, who
helps manage 250 million reais ($159 million) as partner at Oren
Investimentos in  Rio de Janeiro . “Right now, the Bovespa is
very volatile, though the problems are with a slowdown in the
 U.S. economy  and in Europe with its debt crisis. It’s not an
internal problem with Brazil.”  MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA, the iron-ore miner controlled
by Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista , advanced as crude rose
for the first day in six. Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais
SA, Brazil’s second-biggest steelmaker, gained the most since
December 2008 on speculation rival Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA
is boosting its stake in the company.  July Inflation  The Bovespa earlier rose as much as 2 percent as Brazilian
inflation in July accelerated less than economists expected and
U.S. jobs growth exceeded estimates. The index dropped as much
as 3.1 percent as pessimism about the global economy mounted.  Brazil’s monthly consumer inflation quickened to 0.16
percent in July, the national statistics agency said in Rio de
Janeiro today. Economists forecast consumer prices as measured
by the IPCA index would rise 0.18 percent, according to the
median of 46 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Bank of America cut its 12-month forecast for the Bovespa
index to 75,000 from 83,000 on prospects for lower earnings
growth this year and next amid slower economic expansion in
 Brazil  and developed markets. Brazil’s benchmark stock index
sank 5.7 percent yesterday, making it the biggest decliner among
the world’s 20 largest markets.  MMX Surges  MMX surged 8 percent to 6.60 reais after falling 16 percent
yesterday. Usiminas, as Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais is
known, jumped 10 percent to 22.25 reais. B2W Cia. Global de
Varejo, Brazil’s biggest online retailer and a subsidiary of
Lojas Americanas SA, dropped 2.7 percent to 12.95 reais after
posting a loss in the second quarter compared with a profit a
year earlier. Embraer SA, the world’s fourth-largest planemaker,
fell 2 percent to 9.75 reais, its lowest price in more than a
year.  The Bovespa is the most oversold since just after September
2001’s terrorist attacks on  New York City , according to an
indicator used in technical analysis. The benchmark’s 14-day
relative strength index, or RSI, sank to 18 yesterday, below the
threshold of 30 that indicates fair value, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The last time the RSI was lower was Sept.
14, 2001.  For Auerbach Grayson & Co.’s  Richard Ross , a chartered
market technician with 18 years experience, that’s a warning
sign of further declines, not a signal to buy.  Oversold Levels  “When you get these oversold levels amidst the backdrop of
a  bear market  it has to be viewed differently than when you get
oversold readings in a  bull market ,” Ross, Auerbach Grayson’s
global technical strategist in  New York , said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “It almost confirms the sell signal rather
than piques my contrarian instincts.”  U.S. employers added more jobs than forecast in July as the
 unemployment rate  fell to 9.1 percent and wages rose 0.4
percent. Payrolls rose by 117,000 workers, U.S. Labor Department
data showed today in  Washington , beating the 85,000 median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  S&P spokesman John Piecuch said in an e-mail that the
ratings company wouldn’t comment on speculation the U.S. rating
will be cut. Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings this
week affirmed their AAA ratings on  U.S. government debt .  The Bovespa trades at 8.6 times analysts’ earnings
estimates, the lowest since March 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares to a ratio of 12 for the
Shanghai Composite Index, 6.3 for Russia’s Micex and 14 for
 India ’s Sensex.  Traders moved 8.92 billion reais ($5.66 billion) in stocks
today, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares to a daily
average this year of 6.36 billion reais through Aug. 3,
according to data from the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  