-- 
Brazil Consumer Prices Increase 0.16%, Second-Slowest Pace in 11 Months

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 
2011-08-05T13:38:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/brazil-consumer-inflation-rises-at-0-16-second-slowest-pace-in-11-months.html
Brazil ’s consumer inflation rose at
the second-slowest pace in 11 months, cementing expectations the
central bank will keep rates unchanged at its next meeting.  Consumer prices, as measured by the IPCA index, rose 0.16
percent, compared with a 0.18 percent median forecast from 46
economists surveyed by Bloomberg and a 0.15 percent rise in
June. Inflation quickened to 6.87 percent from a year ago.  Traders reversed their bets yesterday on an interest rate
increase this year as concern the global economic recovery is
faltering spurred a plunge in stock markets around the world.
The benchmark Bovespa index tumbled 5.7 percent. Traders now see
a chance that Brazil’s central bank may even cut rates this
year, interest rate futures contracts show.  “The number came in line with estimates, showing that
there is clearly a more positive inflation outlook,”  Luciano
Rostagno , chief strategist at CM Capital Markets Ltda. in  Sao
Paulo , said in a telephone interview. “It corroborates the
central bank’s view that monthly inflation is staying low and
under control.”  Brazilian central bank President Alexandre Tombini said
yesterday that policy makers are “more comfortable” with
inflation because annual price increases will slow starting in
September. Inflation breached the upper limit of the central
bank’s 2.5 percent to 6.5 percent target range in April.  Six-Year High  The annual inflation rate, which is running at a six-year
high, will peak this month and drop two percentage points by
April, Tombini said in a interview with Brazil’s public
television. Monthly inflation is already “low,” he said.  “What the central bank is saying today is that it is more
comfortable with the developments in inflation,” Tombini told
reporters in Brasilia, after the television interview. “In
2012, it goes back to the 4.5 percent target.” Tombini has
raised rates five times this year, to 12.50 percent.  The yield on interest rate futures contracts maturing in
January 2013 rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to
12.36 percent at 9:17 a.m. New York time. The real strengthened
0.4 percent to 1.5824 per  U.S. dollar .  Central banks in  Switzerland  and  Turkey  unexpectedly
lowered  interest rates  in the past two days, while Brazil’s
benchmark stock index sank to a two-year low yesterday on
concern the  U.S. economy  will relapse into recession. The chance
of a rate cut in  Australia  next month rose to 36 percent from 4
percent on Aug. 1, according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  Core Inflation  Brazil’s core inflation slowed in July from June to a
monthly pace in line with the country’s 4.5 percent inflation
target,  Jankiel Santos , chief economist at Espirito Santo
Investment Bank, said.  The average of the three core inflation measures tracked by
the central bank slowed to 0.37 percent from 0.51 in June,
Santos said in an e-mail.  Industrial production fell 1.6 percent in June, the second-
biggest drop in output since 2008, the statistics agency said on
Aug. 2. The economy will grow 3.96 percent this year, after
expanding 7.5 percent in 2010, the fastest in more than two
decades, according to economists in a central bank survey
published this week.  Tombini said that while he doesn’t expect commodity prices
to drop, slower growth worldwide will prevent these prices from
jumping as they did last year.  Analysts expect Tombini to miss Brazil’s 4.5 percent
inflation target next year, according to a central bank  survey 
published this week. Consumer prices will rise 6.31 percent this
year and 5.30 percent in 2012, according to the median forecast
in a July 29 central bank survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Ragir in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  