-- 
Brazilian Coffee Discount Narrows as Prices Drop, Broker Says

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-08-05T08:39:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/brazilian-coffee-discount-narrows-as-prices-drop-broker-says.html
The discount to obtain coffee from
top producer Brazil narrowed this week as lower prices in  New
York  trading encouraged producers to keep holding back beans,
according to Flavour Coffee.  Fine-cup qualities from the South American country were
offered at 5 cents and 10 cents a pound below ICE Futures U.S.
prices, the broker said in a report yesterday. That compared
with 8 cents to 13 cents last week, cited by Flavour Coffee in a
July 28 report. Arabica beans slid for four weeks before this
week on ICE in New York and yesterday fell the most since June
20, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  “Producers keep on this rigid discipline, avoiding
reducing prices” amid declines in New York, the Rio de Janeiro-
based broker said. The local market remains “very quiet,”
which is “unusual” for this time of the season, it said.  Growers in  Brazil  are delaying sales of this year’s coffee
crop as ICE prices fall, according to Cepea, a University of Sao
Paulo research group.  Farmers in Espirito Santo, the country’s largest robusta-
producing state, have picked 90 percent of the crop and sold
about 30 percent, Cepea said in a report on Aug. 2, citing local
agents. Sales remain between 25 percent and 30 percent in
southern  Minas Gerais , the main arabica-producing state, where
75 percent of the crop has been harvested, it said.  “There is a substantial volume of new crop already
available,” Flavour Coffee said. “Therefore, the pace of the
business should be much higher now in August.”  Arabica for December delivery was little changed at $2.40 a
pound by 9:25 a.m.  London  time on ICE.  Robusta beans from Brazil were offered at a premium of 15
cents a pound to prices on NYSE Liffe in London, Flavour Coffee
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 