-- 
Brazil Defense Minister Resigns as Comments Rattle Rousseff

-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s   a n d   M a r i a   L u i z a   R a b e l l o
-- 
2011-08-05T16:10:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/brazil-defense-minister-resigns-as-comments-rattle-rousseff.html
Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff 
lost the third member of her Cabinet since taking office seven
months ago, as her defense minister was forced to resign after
making comments that angered the president.  Nelson Jobim had served as the civilian head of  Latin
America ´s biggest military since 2007, one of 12 top officials
that Rousseff retained when she took over from her political
mentor and predecessor,  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva . Jobim
resigned after a meeting with Rousseff last night and will be
replaced by Lula’s former foreign minister, Celso Amorim, Social
Communications Minister Helena Chagas told reporters yesterday.  Jobim is a member of the government-aligned Democratic
Movement Party of  Brazil , known as the PMDB, the biggest party
in Rousseff’s coalition, with 80 deputies in the 513-seat lower
house and 20 senators in the 81-seat upper chamber. His exit
won’t strain relations with the PMDB, but the timing amid
deepening concerns about the global economy could cause problems
for Rousseff, said Rafael Cortez, a political analyst at Sao
Paulo-based Tendencias Consultoria.  “The government was trapped in a negative agenda, Dilma
has to deal with global economic instability and at the same
time has to make tough political decisions,” Cortez said in a
telephone interview from  Sao Paulo . “The resignation of a
minister is never a small thing.”  Rousseff’s Rival  Jobim, a former Supreme Court chief justice, stirred
controversy last week after acknowledging that he voted for
Rousseff´s rival,  Jose Serra , in last year´s elections. Pressure
to resign increased yesterday when newspapers reported that he
had criticized two of Rousseff´s closest aides.  Jobim, in an interview published in Revista Piaui magazine
today, said Institutional Relations Minister Ideli Salvatti is
“weak” and that Cabinet Chief Gleisi Hoffmann “doesn’t know
Brasilia.”  The comments angered Rousseff, who decided yesterday that
Jobim would have step down as soon as he returned last night
from a trip to the Amazon rain forest, according to a government
official who could not be named because he isn’t authorized to
discuss the matter publicly.  Jobim earlier yesterday denied that he had criticized
Salvatti, according to an e-mailed  statement . After revealing
that he voted for Serra, Jobim said during an Aug. 1  interview 
on the Roda Viva television program that “everybody knew” he
and Serra are good friends.  Last month, Rousseff forced another Lula holdover,
Transportation Minister Alfredo Nascimento, to resign amid
allegations of kickbacks and overbilling at a ministry whose
budget is the size of  Paraguay ´s $18 billion economy.
Nascimento´s Party of the Republic this week withdrew its
support of the government in the Senate.  Amorim, 69, was foreign minister from 1993 to 1994, under
former President Itamar Franco, and from 2003 to 2010, under
Lula.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carla Simoes in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Luiza Rabello in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  