-- 
Brazil Seeks Recruits for ‘Currency War’ in Lima Meeting of Finance Chiefs

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 
2011-08-05T15:47:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/brazil-seeks-recruits-for-currency-war-in-lima-meeting-of-finance-chiefs.html
South American finance officials,
struggling to stop economic harm from a two-year decline of the
 U.S. dollar , will seek to agree on a coordinated response when
they meet today in Lima.  The meeting comes as Latin America is bracing for another
surge in foreign investment inflows, which have quadrupled since
2003, amid concern that recoveries in the U.S. and  Europe  are
faltering and may force the  Federal Reserve  to begin another
round of asset purchases. Policy makers are concerned a 25
percent rally in Latin American currencies since the end of 2008
is making its exports less competitive and hurting manufacturers
by spurring a surge in cheaper imports.  This is a moment of “stress” in the world, Brazilian
Finance Minister Guido Mantega told reporters in Lima today.
“Emerging countries have to prepare themselves for the possible
consequences. We have to be united to create mechanisms of
protection in response to this situation.”  Finance ministers in  Chile , Peru and Colombia, who haven’t
gone as far as Mantega in restricting foreign investment, may
change if capital controls like Brazil’s taxing of foreigners’
buying of bonds can be applied in a joint way that won’t
frighten investors, said Mauricio Cardenas, a former Colombian
development minister.  ‘Destroying Our Capacity’  “A coordinated effort helps reduce the risk to nations’
reputation among investors while increasing the effectiveness of
controls,” said Cardenas, who is the director of the Latin
America program at the Brookings Institution in  Washington .
“Colombia, Peru and Chile have been reluctant to go in the
direction of Brazil, but they have been watching and if they see
these measures are effective they could follow suit.”  Today’s meeting of finance chiefs from the 12-nation Union
of South American Nations, or Unasur, was organized at the
urging of Colombian President  Juan Manuel Santos . On July 28,
Santos also said that  Latin America  can’t be a “mere
spectator” as the value of the region’s record $700 billion in
reserves is eroded by the decline of the dollar and the euro.  “The appreciation of the majority of our currencies is
destroying our capacity to generate jobs,” said Santos in the
statement. “We are being very negatively affected.”  Developing nations aren’t alone in fighting the dollar’s
decline.  Japan  yesterday injected 10 trillion yen ($126 billion)
to stem an appreciating exchange rate, a day after Switzerland
unexpectedly cut interest rates and pledged to boost the supply
of the franc.  Investment  Mantega, who has accused the U.S., Japan and Europe of
sparking a global “currency war” through the use of near-zero
interest rates, will attend the meeting along with finance
ministers from Argentina,  Colombia  and Uruguay. Mexico’s finance
ministry, which was also invited, declined to comment when asked
whether it was sending any officials.  Investors are flocking to Latin America after the region
grew at its fastest pace in 30 years last year.  The  World Bank  estimates that net private inflows surged to
$203.4 billion last year as the region expanded 6 percent amid
strong demand from  China  for Chile’s copper, Brazil’s iron ore
and Argentina’s soy. In 2003, inflows totaled $57.5 billion, the
Washington-based lender said.  In Brazil, the region’s biggest economy, foreign direct
investment hasn’t let up this year, jumping to a record $69
billion in the 12 months through June.  Countermeasures  To ease pressure on the real, whose 47 percent rally since
the end of 2008 beats all 25 emerging market currencies tracked
by Bloomberg, Brazil has tripled a tax on bond purchases by
foreigners and raised levies on borrowing abroad. Last week,
Mantega slapped a tax on bets against the dollar in the futures
market.  The real’s rally is taking its toll on manufacturers, who
are losing ground to Chinese imports even as domestic demand
remains robust in the wake of the fastest economic growth last
year in two decades. Industrial output fell 1.6 percent in June.
The Sao Paulo Industrial Federation estimates that the country’s
trade gap in manufactured goods will widen to $100 billion this
year from $71 billion in 2010.  While Chile and Colombia have stepped up daily purchases of
dollars this year, and  Peru  did the same last year before
presidential elections cut demand for the sol, none has acted as
aggressively as Brazil to stem inflows.  Active Versus Effective  That’s in part because Brazil’s 5.79 percent real  interest
rate , the second-highest after Croatia among 55 countries
tracked by Bloomberg, is a magnet for investors seeking higher
yields.  “Brazil stands out in being more active but not as being
more effective” in fighting currency gains, said Alberto Ramos,
an economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in  New York . “Chile
and Mexico have been much less activist and they have fared much
better.”  Chile in March slashed spending by $750 million, equal to
0.4 percent of gross domestic product, to take pressure off the
peso, which has rallied 16 percent since the central bank began
raising interest rates in June 2010. Policy makers in January
also announced they’d purchase a record $12 billion this year,
equal to 43 percent of currency reserves.  In Colombia, where the peso has gained 14 percent against
the dollar since the end of 2009, the central bank is buying at
least $20 million a day in the spot market. Peru purchased $9
billion last year, the second-biggest amount ever, and increased
reserve requirements to lift the cost of short-term, overseas
borrowing.  ‘Irresponsible’  “Many of the region’s leaders think the advanced economies
are behaving in an irresponsible way and the side effects are
very negative for  South America ,” said Cardenas.  Concern that the world economy may relapse into a recession
saw global equity markets plunge yesterday, pushing the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index to its worst slump since February 2009, while
the yield on a two-year Treasury note plunged to a record low.  Stock markets in Latin America also tumbled yesterday and
yields on  government bonds  surged.  South American nations need a common strategy to defend
themselves from what’s happening in global markets, Colombia
Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry said.  ‘Difficult Moments’  “We in South America together with Mexico have to act as a
group and have a common strategy for these difficult moments,”
Echeverry said at a meeting of regional officials in  Lima  today.
“We’re in choppy seas.”  Echeverry said he didn’t expect a packet of measures to be
decided at today’s meeting. Unasur has focused on regional
security and strengthening democracy since its creation at
Brazil’s initiative in 2008.  Today’s meeting will be followed in a week by another
gathering, in Buenos Aires, of regional finance ministers and
central bank presidents to create Unasur’s economic and
financial board.  Among the board’s priorities will be to lessen the region’s
dependence on the dollar by increasing trade in local
currencies, Carlos Cozendey, international affairs secretary at
Brazil’s Finance Ministry, said in an interview.  Luis Oscar Herrera, head of research at Chile’s central
bank, said the room for joint action to fight inflows is limited
because not all the countries are as financially integrated as
his own with the rest of the world. While Chilean pension funds
can invest about half of assets offshore, their counterparts in
Brazil, Peru and Colombia face tighter restrictions.  ‘Common Concern’  “Although there may be some points of common concern, the
solutions have to be focused on the situation of each country,”
he said in an interview this week at the Bloomberg office in
Santiago.  Neil Shearing , an emerging-markets economist at  Capital
Economics  in  London , said policies implemented in Brazil to curb
loan growth are needed to prevent asset bubbles that could form
from access to cheap credit from abroad. These so-called macro-
prudential measures aren’t meant to slow currency gains, he
said.  “Targeted capital controls are sensible to keep the more
frothy stuff away,” Shearing said. “But they won’t stop
currencies from appreciating in the long term, unless the fiscal
side is adjusted accordingly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Ragir in Rio de Janeiro at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  