-- 
Brocade Declines Most Since 1999 After Missing Forecasts

-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 
2011-08-05T20:39:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/brocade-falls-most-in-almost-nine-years-after-missing-forecasts.html
Brocade Communications Systems Inc. (BRCD) ,
the maker of switches for data-storage networks, tumbled the
most since its 1999 initial public offering after reporting
preliminary revenue and profit that fell short of its forecasts.  The company expects to post revenue of $500 million to
$505 million and earnings excluding some items of 8 cents to
9 cents for its third quarter that ended July 30, according to a
statement today. Brocade, based in  San Jose ,  California , had
forecast $540 million to $560 million in sales and profit of
10 cents to 11 cents.  Lower-than-expected spending on information technology and
revenue from the federal government contributed to the quarterly
results, Brocade said. “I am disappointed that we were not able
to drive growth across all of our segments and geographies to
meet our original expectations,” Chief Executive Officer
Michael Klayko said in the statement.  Brocade’s performance in both its storage and Ethernet
networking businesses “stands to disenchant investors looking
for sturdier execution and leveraging of a sound technology
portfolio,” Mark Moskowitz, a JP Morgan Securities analyst in
 San Francisco , said in a note to clients.  The third-quarter results “could scare off would-be
acquirers,” said Moskowitz, who cut his rating on Brocade
shares to “neutral” from “overweight.”  The company has been looking for potential buyers with the
assistance of  Frank Quattrone ’s Qatalyst Partners for the past
two years, a person familiar with the matter told Bloomberg News
last month. Dell Inc. passed over Brocade to buy Force10
Networks Inc. in July, according to the person.  Brocade fell $1.37, or 28 percent, to $3.52 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. That was the biggest
daily decline for the shares since the company’s May 1999 IPO.  The company plans to release full third-quarter results on
Aug. 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  