-- 
Brookfield Office Beats Estimates After Commercial-Property Revenue Climbs

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 
2011-08-05T12:41:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/brookfield-office-ffo-drops-after-loan-repayment-in-year-earlier-quarter.html
Brookfield Office Properties Inc.,
owner of  Manhattan ’s World Financial Center, reported funds from
operations that beat analyst estimates after increasing revenue
and adding income from Australian properties acquired last year.  FFO, a gauge of a property company’s ability to generate
cash, was $152 million, or 30 cents a share, in the second
quarter, the New York-based landlord said today in a statement.
Analysts expected 26 cents a share, the average of 14 estimates
in a Bloomberg survey. FFO was $201 million, or 40 cents, a year
earlier, when results included a $53 million gain from the
repayment of a loan bought at a discount.  The company is seeing “steady demand and controlled supply
within our primary markets,” Chief Executive Officer Ric Clark
said in the statement. “We remain optimistic about our
performance over the balance of the year and the next few years
to come.”  Brookfield last year purchased 19 Australian properties,
mostly towers in Sydney, Melbourne and Perth, as part of a plan
to focus on being a global office company. The buildings
contributed $35.5 million to second-quarter net operating
income, according to a supplemental earnings report posted to
the company’s  website.   Revenue Up 30%  Net operating income from commercial properties was $217
million, up almost 21 percent from a year earlier, the company
said. Revenue climbed 30 percent to $399 million.  The companywide occupancy rate was 93.3 percent, down from
95 percent at the end of last year and 94.8 percent a year
earlier, according to the supplemental report.  Brookfield is facing vacancies at the World Financial
Center, an 8 million-square-foot (743,000-square-meter) complex,
as leases expire in the next two years.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) 
plans to renew only about 750,000 square feet of 4.6 million
square feet of leases inherited in the 2009 acquisition of
Merrill Lynch & Co, three people with knowledge of the
discussions said in June. Nomura Holdings Inc., a 521,000-
square-foot Merrill subtenant, is moving to midtown Manhattan.  The “focal point is just trying to understand what the
leasing progress is down at the World Financial Center,”
Anthony Paolone, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said in an
interview yesterday. “That is probably the biggest swing factor
to their story at the moment.”  ‘Draconian Scenario’  Paolone, who has a “neutral” rating on Brookfield’s
shares, said in a July 7 report the company’s annual cash flow
may be reduced by 25 cents to 30 cents a share should it not
fill the space being vacated. That’s a “draconian scenario,”
he wrote.  Brookfield is in “serious discussions” with potential
tenants for about 2 million square feet of  office space ,
President Dennis Friedrich said at a conference in June. The
company also announced a $250 million plan to renovate the
financial center’s retail areas, including a 600-seat dining
terrace overlooking the  Hudson River .  Second-quarter results were announced before the start of
regular U.S. trading. Brookfield fell 94 cents, or 5.2 percent,
to $17.03 yesterday in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. The stock dropped 2.4 percent this year through
yesterday, compared with a 2.3 decline in the 81-member Dow
Jones U.S. Real Estate Index.  Brookfield owns office buildings in the U.S.,  Canada  and
 Australia  in cities including New York,  Boston , Houston and
Toronto. It has interests in 109 properties totaling about 78
million square feet, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in  New York  at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel in New York at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  