-- 
Cancer Researcher Admits to Hiding Assets in Swiss Banks

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-08-05T21:25:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/cancer-researcher-says-he-used-swiss-accounts-to-hide-assets-from-u-s-.html
A  New Jersey  cancer researcher
admitted to hiding millions of dollars from U.S. tax authorities
in accounts at  UBS AG (UBSN)  and other Swiss banks.  Michael Reiss, 60, of Princeton, pleaded guilty today in
 Manhattan  federal court to failing to file reports of foreign
bank accounts in 2008 and 2009. Reiss, who faces as long as five
years in prison at his sentencing in November, was released on a
$200,000 bond.  Reiss had an account at Zurich-based UBS, the largest Swiss
bank, starting in 2000 and transferred the assets in that
account to another Swiss bank in 2002, prosecutors said in a
statement. In 2003, he opened an account at another Swiss bank
in the name of Floranova, a sham foundation created to hide his
ownership of the assets from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service,
prosecutors said. In 2008, the account held $2.59 million.  He will pay a civil penalty of about $1.2 million, his
attorney, Paula Junghans, said. Reiss also agreed to pay at
least $400,000 in taxes, Assistant U.S. Attorney  Daniel Levy 
said.  Reiss, a Dutch national, isn’t a U.S. citizen. He may face
deportation after he’s sentenced, U.S. Magistrate Judge Henry Pitman said. Junghans declined to comment on the case after
today’s proceeding.  Cancer Institute  Reiss is a  professor  at the Cancer Institute of New Jersey
at the University of Medicine & Dentistry of New Jersey’s Robert
Wood Johnson Medical School in  New Brunswick . He researches
cancers of the head, neck, lung and esophagus, according to the
school’s  website .  “At this time it appears the allegations do not involve
university or state monies,” UMDNJ said in a statement. “We
are doing everything we can to determine that that is in fact
the case.”  Prosecutors said Reiss used the services of Beda
Singenberger, a Swiss financial adviser who was charged last
month with conspiring with more than 60 U.S. taxpayers to hide
more than $184 million in offshore accounts.  The Floranova account held assets valued at about $2.6
million as of March 2008, prosecutors said. In November 2008,
Reiss transferred the Floranova assets into another undeclared
account, prosecutors said.  UBS in 2009 paid $780 million to avoid prosecution on
charges that it helped Americans evade taxes and turned over
data on 250 secret accounts. It later handed over information on
4,450 more accounts.  In the past three years, more than two dozen UBS clients
have been charged with tax crimes, as well as several bankers
and financial advisers. The U.S. dropped its criminal case
against UBS in October. Reiss’s plea is the seventh in the
Southern District of  New York  by a U.S. taxpayer who had an
undeclared account at UBS or other Swiss banks.  The case is U.S. v. Reiss, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in  Newark , New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 