-- 
Cargill Turkey Recall Criticized as Officials Say Evidence Weak

-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 
2011-08-05T04:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/cargill-turkey-recall-criticized-as-officials-say-evidence-weak.html
U.S. officials didn’t press Cargill
Inc. to recall turkey potentially tainted by salmonella sooner
because of conflicting, incomplete data, prompting consumer
advocates to call for a more-aggressive approach.  Cargill pulled back almost 36 million pounds of ground
turkey on Aug. 3, in the second-biggest U.S. meat recall, and
halted processing of the product at its Springdale, Arkansas,
plant after being presented with the results of what health
officials described as a lengthy and painstaking investigation.  The probe proceeded slowly because the  pace of infections ,
which began in March, rose gradually, and there wasn’t evidence
of a “cluster” until May, Dr. David Goldman, an administrator
with the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s  Food Safety and
Inspection Service , told reporters yesterday. The government’s
response may have put more people at risk, said Caroline Smith
DeWaal, with the  Center for Science in the Public Interest .  “The failure to issue a public alert earlier or to even
notify the company shows a troubling lack of coordination that
potentially contributed to the size and severity of the
outbreak,” DeWaal, the Washington-based advocacy group’s food-
safety director, said in an e-mailed statement. She called for a
full review of the government’s actions.  The USDA issued a public-health alert on July 29 linking 77
illnesses to ground turkey, without mentioning Cargill.  The antibiotic-resistant Heidelberg strain pf salmonella
linked to the turkey meat has sickened at least 78 people in 26
states and killed one person in  California , according to the
U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  ‘Dissonant’ Information  By late May, the government determined there had been an
outbreak and two routine Food and Drug Administration tests had
found ground turkey with the same salmonella strain that was
sickening people. Other evidence related to the outbreak wasn’t
yet pointing to turkey as a cause, according to Dr. Chris
Braden, director of the CDC’s foodborne-illness division.  “We were finding dissonant types of information that I
think prevented us from acting,” Braden said. “We then had to
go on to collect additional information to bring it all
together.”  It took two more FDA tests in June and July, along with
interviews and food purchase data to persuade investigators that
turkey was behind the outbreak.  By July 21, data on grocery-store purchases from two sick
people were used to connect the meat to the Cargill plant for
the first time. Another traceback had a similar result by July
29, officials said. The USDA then compared information with the
CDC and local health authorities before providing Cargill
management with the results of the investigation on Aug. 3,
Goldman said. After that, the decision to pull the meat came
“within hours,” he said.  More Testing  The outbreak has prompted calls for tighter regulation of
the  food supply  and a more aggressive approach to recalls.
Poultry needs to be checked for salmonella strains before being
released into the food supply, said the  Center for Science in
the Public Interest,  which in May petitioned the government to
require such testing.  The  Consumer Federation of America , a Washington-based
advocacy group, echoed that position.  “If you have the evidence, you have to go to the plant,”
Chris Waldrop, director of the federation’s Food Policy
Institute, said in a telephone interview.  Sally Greenberg of the National Consumers League in
 Washington  said the investigators’ approach is understandable,
given the effects of an improper recall on food sales and
consumer confidence. “I’m not prepared to second-guess the
government,” she said.  Call for Funding  More-aggressive testing would reduce the need for
investigations, she said. “There’s a lot of things that can be
done that would stop this from happening in the first place,”
including greater food-safety funding at the state, local and
national levels, she said.  Closely held Cargill, which is based in Wayzata,  Minnesota ,
is conducting its own investigation, including looking at
whether the salmonella was brought into its Springdale plant by
the turkeys, which came from more than 180 contract growers in
Missouri, Arkansas and  Oklahoma , according to Mike Martin, a
spokesman.  Sections of the plant that produce whole birds, sausage,
drumsticks and bone-in breast meat continue to operate, Martin
said by telephone from Wichita,  Kansas .  “We are monitoring the salmonella counts, and we are not
seeing anything on that side that’s problematic,” Martin said.  The largest U.S. meat recall was in 2008, when
Westland/Hallmark Meat Co. pulled back 143 million pounds of
beef, according to USDA records and a 2010 study by the
 University of Minnesota . Westland/Hallmark had allowed
potentially sick “downer” cattle into the food supply.  The next-largest had been the 35 million pounds of frozen,
ready-to-eat meat products recalled by Thorn Apple Valley Inc.
in 1999 because of concern the meat was contaminated with
listeria, according to the study.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  