-- 
Carrefour Replaces Bouchut With Sivignon as CFO

-- B y   C e l e s t e   P e r r i   a n d   F r a n c o i s   D e   B e a u p u y
-- 
2011-08-05T12:47:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/carrefour-replaces-bouchut-with-sivignon-as-finance-chief-2-.html
Carrefour SA (CA) , the world’s second-
largest retailer, said Pierre-Jean Sivignon will replace Pierre Bouchut as chief financial officer as the company struggles to
turn around its French business.  Sivignon, 54, will take the post starting Sept. 1,
Carrefour said today in a statement. Bouchut will head the
growth markets division, starting in November, replacing Thierry Garnier, who will take on an unspecified role.  Sivignon stepped down as CFO of Royal Philips Electronics
NV earlier this year as a new chief executive officer came
aboard. During his tenure there, the Dutch maker of lighting and
DVD players increased its cash pile by more than a third as of
October. Sivignon had worked to reduce the company’s fixed cost
base by more than 700 million euros ($990 million). He also
previously worked as CFO of car-parts maker Faurecia SA after a
career at Schlumberger Ltd., an oil services company.  “He can bring valuable skills to the board, even though he
has no retailing experience,” said analysts at Espirito Santo
Retail in a note today. “International experience at Philips,
Faurecia and Schlumberger could help to bring fresh thinking.”
The analysts have a “sell” recommendation on the stock, citing
a “struggling” business in western  Europe .  Revamp  Shares of Carrefour, based in Levallois-Perret near Paris,
reversed earlier losses and gained as much as 31 cents, or 1.7
percent, to 18.88 euros today and were up 0.3 percent as of
10:10 a.m. local time, giving the company a market value of 12.6
billion euros.  France ’s CAC 40 Index fell 1 percent.  Under Chief Executive Officer Lars Olofsson, Carrefour is
revamping its biggest stores and introducing lower prices and
more own-label products in a bid to turn around its ailing
domestic business, while scrambling for opportunities to grow in
markets like  Brazil . The company spun off its Dia hard-discount
business last month.  The biggest French retailer on July 13 reported second-
quarter sales that trailed analysts estimates and said first-
half operating profit fell about 23 percent as it lost market
share in France.  Bouchut joined Carrefour in 2009 from  Schneider Electric .  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Francois De Beaupuy at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  