-- 
China Everbright Bank Said to Delay Share Sale on Volatile Global Markets

-- B y   F o x   H u
-- 
2011-08-05T03:16:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/china-everbright-bank-said-to-delay-share-sale-on-volatile-global-markets.html
China  Everbright Bank Co. will delay
a share sale in  Hong Kong  for a second time in less than two
months because of volatile global stock markets, two people with
knowledge of the matter said.  The Beijing-based lender won’t proceed with a plan to start
trading on the city’s exchange on Aug. 18, said the people, who
declined to be identified before an announcement. The people
said no new timetable for the offering has been set.  Everbright Bank, which had considered cutting the size of
the sale in half to about $3 billion, put the offering on hold
as Chinese bank shares slumped to the lowest in more than a year
amid concern that loans made to local governments may turn sour.
Asian stock markets tumbled today, potentially putting planned
offers by companies including Citic Securities Co. at risk.  “There’s weak  market sentiment  and there are concerns
about local government financing vehicles in China, causing
people to avoid Chinese bank stocks,” said Michiya Tomita, a
Hong Kong-based fund manager for Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management
Co., which oversees about $65 billion globally.  China Shipping Nauticgreen Holdings Co.  delayed a $200
million initial public offering in Hong Kong because of volatile
stock markets, two people with knowledge of the matter said
yesterday. The  Hang Seng Finance Index (HSF)  fell 4.1 percent at 10:58
a.m. local time, the biggest drop since November 2009.  Citic Offering  Shanghai-traded shares of Everbright bank fell to 3.14 yuan
today, taking this year’s drop to 21 percent and giving the
company a market value of 127 billion yuan ($20 billion). The
lender had originally aimed to raise about $6 billion from the
sale of 10.5 billion shares, according to a term sheet sent to
investors on June 14.  Citic Securities, China’s biggest brokerage by market value,
plans to raise about $2 billion in a share sale in Hong Kong,
people with knowledge of the matter said in April. The company
fell as much as 3.2 percent in Shanghai trading today, the
biggest intraday loss since June 17.  China International Capital Corp., Morgan Stanley, UBS AG,
BNP Paribas SA, BOC International Holdings Ltd., China
Everbright Ltd., HSBC Holdings Plc,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and
Shenyin Wanguo HK Ltd. are managing Everbright Bank’s offering.  Shen Chunhua, a deputy director of the bank’s Board
Secretary Office in Beijing, didn’t immediately respond to a
phone call seeking comment on the delay.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  