-- 
China No Savior This Time as Stocks Rout Signals Global Economy Weakening

-- B y   P a u l   P a n c k h u r s t
-- 
2011-08-05T05:07:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/china-s-scope-for-supporting-global-growth-limited-as-inflation-reaches-6-.html
China , which led the rebound from
the global recession in 2009, may have limited room to counter
weakening growth in the U.S. and  Europe  as inflation restrains
policy makers from loosening monetary policy.  Consumer prices rose 6.4 percent in July from a year
earlier, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey of 25 economists. That would match June’s increase, the
biggest since 2008. The number is due Aug. 9.  Asian stocks tumbled today in a global rout triggered by
concern that the U.S. economic recovery is petering out and
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis is expanding. While China today
pledged support for the euro, Premier Wen Jiabao’s top priority
is taming inflation, with the State Council announcing extra
measures to rein in  house prices  as recently as July 14.  “It would be very difficult to do any monetary loosening
over the next two months when inflation is elevated and the
 property market  is yet to cool,” said  Sun Mingchun , a Hong
Kong-based economist for Daiwa Securities Capital Markets who
has previously worked for China’s central bank. “You can’t say
that 6.4 percent inflation is okay.”  Oil and zinc led a drop in commodities today.  South Korean officials said they will hold an emergency
meeting Aug. 7 to discuss the global economy and market turmoil,
and Australia’s central bank cut that nation’s 2011 growth
forecast to 2 percent from a previous 3.25 percent estimate.  China’s View  China’s Foreign Minister  Yang Jiechi  said his nation will
support Europe and the euro, in an interview with Polish media
posted on a Chinese government website today. He said that the
risk of the U.S. defaulting on its debt is rising and urged
America’s leaders to be “responsible.’”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slid 3.8 percent as of 12:41
p.m. in  Tokyo , set for its largest weekly decline since October
2008. In China, Jiangxi Copper Co. and Aluminum Corp. of China
Ltd. tumbled.  “We expect markets to remain volatile for some time, with
lots to worry about and many investors and officials on
holiday,”  Standard Chartered  Bank said in a report today.  While consumer-price gains may have peaked in June and
July, inflation is unlikely to fall “significantly” until the
fourth quarter, said  Li Wei , a Shanghai-based economist for
Standard Chartered. Another of the bank’s analysts, Hong Kong-
based  Stephen Green , said that policy is likely “on hold” and
“Beijing will have some space to loosen a little by the end of
the third quarter.”  Fiscal Options  Inflation higher than the benchmark one-year deposit rate
of 3.5 percent may discourage the government from cutting rates.
In the event of a global slump, officials may turn first to
fiscal policy and “we do not expect a rate cut any time soon,”
Hong Kong-based Citigroup Inc. economist Ding Shuang said in an
e-mail today.  Meanwhile, Daiwa analysts said today that “sharp
declines” in growth in investment in infrastructure, property
and manufacturing in June highlight the risk that credit
tightening will trigger a slowdown in an economy that grew 9.5
percent in the second quarter.  Yuan-denominated bonds are delivering a loss as investors
bet inflation will mean higher rates.  Holders of government yuan notes have lost 0.6 percent in
dollar terms this quarter, while Brazilian real bonds returned
2.6 percent, Russian ruble notes 0.5 percent and securities
denominated in Indian rupees 0.8 percent, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co. indexes.  Reserve Requirements  The central bank’s seven-week pause in raising lenders’
reserve requirements is the longest since the latest series of
increases began in November last year. The most recent boost to
 interest rates  was in July.  Australia  & New Zealand Banking Group estimates that China
will account for more than a third of global growth this year.
Liu Li-Gang, the chief China economist at ANZ in Hong Kong, said
today that Chinese officials will monitor financial turbulence
and won’t rush to alter policy.  In the event of any easing, a cut in lenders’ reserve
requirements would be the first move, Liu said.  Officials may be reluctant to allow any surge in lending
after record credit growth in 2009 increased inflation risks,
boosted property prices and raised the threat of a wave of bad
loans. The government last month expanded efforts to curb gains
in residential property prices to smaller cities after limiting
home purchases in Shanghai and Beijing.  At a press briefing yesterday,  Hong Kong  billionaire  Li Ka-shing  expressed confidence that the Chinese economy will
avoid a “hard landing” and the  International Monetary Fund  is
forecasting a 9.6 percent expansion for this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  