-- 
China’s Stocks Slump to 7-Week Low as Economic Concerns Spur Global Rout

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-05T07:59:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/china-s-stock-futures-slump-as-economic-concerns-spur-global-equities-rout.html
China ’s stocks fell, capping the
benchmark index’s worst week since May, as global equities
markets plunged on concern slumping U.S. growth and Europe’s
debt crisis will push the world economy into recession.  Jiangxi Copper Co. and Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd., the
biggest producers of copper and aluminum, tumbled more than 3
percent after aluminum and zinc futures slid by the daily limit
in  Shanghai .  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd. led
declines by lenders on speculation the central bank will keep
tightening monetary polices to tame inflation.  “China’s already-weak stock market can’t find shelter from
the global rout,” said Tu Jun, a strategist at Shanghai
Securities Co. “Negative factors like the European debt crisis
and U.S. growth concerns have accumulated and kept adding to
investors’ pessimism. That has hammered markets worldwide.’”  The Shanghai Composite Index, which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, slumped 57.6 points, or 2.2 percent, to
2,626.42 at the 3 p.m. close, the lowest since June 20. The  CSI
300 Index (SHSZ300)  declined 2.1 percent to 2,897.42.  The Shanghai gauge has fallen 2.8 percent this week on
concern an agreement to raise America’s debt ceiling won’t be
enough to avoid credit ratings downgrades. A report showing
 consumer spending  dropping by the most in almost two years
boosted speculation the world’s biggest economy may slip back
into recession. China is scheduled to release economic data
including the July inflation report on Aug. 9. The CPI probably
stayed at a three-year high of 6.4 percent, according to the
median estimate of 25 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  U.S. Economy  Global stocks had their biggest one-day rout since March
2009 on concern the world economy is weakening. The MSCI All-
Country World Index slid 4.1 percent to 311.60, falling 13
percent from its May 2 high. The Standard & Poor’s 500 tumbled
4.8 percent to an eight-month low in  New York . Benchmark indexes
in  Japan ,  South Korea  and  Hong Kong  fell more than 3 percent,
while  Taiwan ’s Taiex plunged more than 5 percent.  Jiangxi Copper sank 3.6 percent to 34.34 yuan. Aluminum
Corp. of China slid 3.1 percent to 9.94 yuan, the lowest close
since June 2.  China’s exports will likely slow more quickly than expected
because of the global economic slump, with industries such as
shipping, raw materials and real estate facing the biggest
risks, according to Deutsche Bank AG. Even if Chinese demand for
commodities remains constant, a slowdown in U.S. and European
growth will hurt material prices and reduce profitability of
Chinese producers as the two regions account for 40 percent of
global demand for oil and up to 30 percent for metals, Deutsche
Bank said.  Global Slowdown  U.S. employment data are forecast to show the addition of
85,000 jobs last month failed to dent the country’s 9.2 percent
unemployment rate.  Consumer confidence  dropped to the lowest
level in more than two months last week in the Bloomberg
Consumer Comfort Index, boosting concern Chinese exports to the
U.S. will slow.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
the ECB has resumed bond purchases and will offer banks more
cash to stop the region’s debt crisis from engulfing Italy and
 Spain  and hurting the economy. The central bank earlier left the
benchmark rate unchanged at 1.5 percent as economic growth
slows. Japan sold its currency yesterday to stem gains that
threaten the nation’s economic recovery.  ICBC, the world’s largest bank by market value, retreated
1.2 percent to 4.11 yuan, the lowest since Dec. 29.  China
Construction Bank Corp. (939)  slid 2 percent to 4.53 yuan, the lowest
since Sept. 30.  Valuations Plunge  The Shanghai stocks measure trades at 12 times estimated
earnings, the lowest since March 2006. The gauge has slumped 14
percent from this year’s high on April 18 on concern that growth
in the world’s second-biggest economy is slowing as the
government intensifies measures to stem inflation.  China’s central bank has raised  interest rates  five times
and ordered lenders to set aside more cash as deposit reserves
12 times since the start of 2010 to contain price rises, which
quickened to the fastest pace in three years in June. The
central bank may raise rates around Aug. 10, Xinhua08.com,
Xinhua’s financial services website, said Aug. 1, citing its own
research.  China should maintain the strength of monetary policy to
consolidate and enhance achievements from previous measures, the
Financial News said in a commentary on its second page.  It will be difficult to control consumer price increases to
within 5 percent this year, the commentary said. Autumn grain
output and hog supply in the country still face lots of
uncertainties, according to the commentary by an unidentified
writer at the central bank publication. The Financial News is
published by the People’s Bank of China.  China’s stocks may perform better than counterparts
elsewhere in  Asia  should the debt crises in  Europe  and the U.S.
worsen, according to Credit Suisse Group AG, which said the
nation’s loans from the two regions are of “virtual
irrelevance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irene Shen in Shanghai at 
 ishen4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  