-- 
Christie Defends Muslim Pick for New Jersey Judge, Calls Critics ‘Crazies’

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-08-05T18:14:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/christie-defends-muslim-pick-for-new-jersey-judge-calls-critics-crazies-.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  is
defending his pick of a Muslim for a state judgeship, saying
critics of a lawyer who represented suspects after the Sept. 11,
2001, terrorist attacks are “ignorant” and “crazies”.  Sohail Mohammed, 47, was sworn in July 26 as a  Superior
Court  judge in Passaic County. Some political columnists and
bloggers have accused Mohammed of having links to terrorism and
said he’ll be more likely to follow Shariah law, religious
standards based on the Koran, instead of state or federal
statutes.  Christie, a first-term Republican and former U.S. attorney,
told reporters July 26 in  Newark  that he met Mohammed after 9/11
when he represented Muslims detained by the FBI. Mohammed, of
Clifton, “played an integral role” in creating trust between
the Islamic community and  law enforcement , Christie said.  “This Shariah law business is crap,” said Christie, 48.
“It’s just crazy and I’m tired of dealing with the crazies.”  Mohammed is the second Muslim superior court judge in New
Jersey, according to Christie. The first, Hany Mawla, was
nominated by Christie’s predecessor, Democrat  Jon Corzine . He
took the bench on Jan. 27, 2010, in Somerset County.  ‘Raw Emotion’  Mohammed was nominated by Christie in January. That month,
Debbie Schlussel, a columnist for publications including the New
York Post and Jerusalem Post,  wrote : “Chris Christie rewarded
those Muslim mobs who cheered on U.S. soil for the mass murder
of 3,000 Americans with a judgeship.”  Peter Woolley , a professor of political science and
director of the PublicMind Polling institute at Fairleigh
Dickinson University in Madison, said criticism of the Mohammed
appointment has come more from national bloggers than from
within Christie’s home state. “In  New Jersey  it’s almost been
below the radar,” he said.  None of the people Mohammed represented was charged with
crimes of terrorism, and all were released because of his
representation, Christie said. Many people were inappropriately
detained by the FBI after the attacks, and it posed a difficult
time for law enforcement, Christie said.  “A lot of passion has ignited around the 10th anniversary
of Sept. 11,” said  Brigid Harrison , a professor of law and
politics at  Montclair State University . “There’s a bit of
renewed raw emotion on this issue.”  A voice-mail message left at the home for Sohail Mohammed
listed in Clifton wasn’t immediately returned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  