-- 
Citigroup Reports $31.7 Billion Gross Exposure in Five European Countries

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-08-05T21:54:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/citigroup-reports-31-7-billion-gross-exposure-in-five-nations.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
U.S. bank, said it has $31.7 billion of gross funds at risk in
 Greece , Italy, Portugal, Spain and Ireland, including so-called
hedges against potential default.  The firm, which last month estimated its net “exposure”
was $22 billion as of June 30, said the larger figure includes
about $2 billion in posted margin and $7 billion in hedges
against funded commitments. To hedge, it bought credit
protection from financial firms outside the five countries, the
New York-based bank said today in a quarterly report.  Citigroup’s figures today were more detailed than estimates
released July 15. The net amount of funds at risk, now estimated
at $22.7 billion, includes $13.5 billion in so-called funded
exposure. Of that, $6.4 billion stems from credit to financial
institutions, $3.9 billion from corporations and $1.6 billion
from sovereign debt, the bank said.  Citigroup shares have tumbled 20 percent since the
beginning of July amid investor concern that the European debt
crisis may engulf  Italy  and Spain, adding to a faltering U.S.
economy and slowdowns in emerging markets such as Brazil, India
and China. Chief Executive Officer Vikram Pandit and Chief
Financial Officer  John Gerspach  had declined to tell analysts
what the bank’s gross exposure to the five European nations was
on a July 15 conference call.  “Citi currently believes that the risk of loss associated
with these exposures is materially lower than the exposure
levels,” the bank said. “Citigroup continues to actively
monitor its exposures to these, as well as other, countries.”  JPMorgan  Funds at risk also include $9.2 billion in unfunded
exposure, which can include letters of credit to borrowers who
haven’t yet drawn on the money. The agreements are mainly with
international companies based in the five nations and generally
require that certain conditions are met before loans are made,
according to the filing.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the second-biggest U.S. bank, today
disclosed a net exposure to the five countries of about $14
billion, according to a quarterly report. The New York-based
bank, led by CEO  Jamie Dimon , didn’t disclose a gross figure in
the filing.  Joseph Evangelisti , a spokesman for the bank,
declined to comment.  About 62 percent of JPMorgan’s net figure, or $8.7 billion,
is exposure to corporate clients and 26 percent, or $3.6
billion, is tied to sovereign debt, mostly in Spain, according
to the filing. About 12 percent, or $1.7 billion, is exposure to
the banking sector in the five countries.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the biggest U.S. bank, said
yesterday it had a $16.7 billion exposure to the five countries
at the end of June, including loans and leases. This includes
$15.2 billion of “non-sovereign” exposure, according to a
quarterly report. The  Charlotte , North Carolina-based lender
purchased credit-default protection of $1.77 billion as a hedge
against potential losses, according to the filing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 Dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 