-- 
Clean Power Stocks Close to Bottom as Vestas Falls, Impax Says

-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 
2011-08-05T07:09:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/clean-power-stocks-close-to-bottom-as-vestas-falls-impax-says.html
Clean energy stocks are approaching a
floor after European austerity measures and cheap U.S. natural-
gas pushed wind and solar companies lower, Impax Asset
Management Ltd. said.  The industry offers value for investors after the
WilderHill New Energy Index fell 20 percent this year,
investment manager Lee Clements said. Vestas Wind Systems A/S,
the world’s biggest wind turbine maker, this week fell to its
lowest level in more than five years and  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) , the
No. 4 solar cell maker, is down 36 percent this year.  “Unless you believe renewable energy is going absolutely
nowhere, the leading names will do well eventually,” Clements
said in an interview in  London . “We think we’re close to a
bottom.”  Solar power companies have been whiplashed this year as
governments in  Germany  and  Italy  cut subsidies, while
overcapacity in the wind turbine industry pushed Vestas to a
loss in the first three months. Impax expects solar stocks to
rebound in the short term, Clements said.  Impax’s Environmental Markets London-listed investment
trust fell 13.5 percent this year, compared with a 14.4 percent
decline for its peers, according to Bloomberg data. The group’s
Asian Environmental Trust underperformed its peers, falling 23
percent this year compared with a 12.8 percent decline for
similar funds.  ‘Tough Time’  “The Asian Fund did well until November and since then
it’s had a very tough time,” said Impax Managing Director Bruce Jenkyn-Jones.  He said the smaller companies the fund tends to hold were
particularly affected by interest-rate increases in  China  and
 India  and its holdings of LED, or light emitting diode, makers
suffered from overcapacity in the industry.  Impax is focusing its investments on the engineering
companies that will build new power networks and boost the
energy efficiency of factories, Clements said. China and Germany
are building  power lines  to cope with an increase in
unpredictable flows from wind generators while China is aiming
to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from industrial processes.  That industry includes companies like Zurich-based ABB
Ltd., The Cooper Companies Inc. from Pleasanton,  California  and
 France ’s Schneider Electric SA, Clements said, while declining
to say what Impax’s current holdings are.  Biggest Holding  Impax held a $2.8 million stake in Cooper at the end of the
first quarter, according to regulatory filings. Its biggest
holding was a $58.2 million stake in Regal Beloit Corp., based
in Beloit,  Wisconsin , which makes gearboxes and transmission
systems for factories and technology companies.  The 260 million-pound Asian fund, which had as much as 9
percent of its portfolio in solar stocks in the third quarter of
last year, has about 1 percent of its money in solar and isn’t
ready to ramp up its investment in the industry because it’s
difficult to predict if and when stocks will rise, Clements
said. Clements cut the fund’s solar exposure to zero in the
first three months of the year.  “We aren’t going to make a very big play in solar because
it’s a hugely volatile market,” Clements said. “We’re lacking
a clear view of a catalyst” to send stocks higher.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at   bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net  