-- 
Cocoa Butter Seen Steady in Season Through Halloween, Christmas

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a   a n d   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 
2011-08-05T13:09:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/cocoa-butter-seen-steady-in-season-through-halloween-christmas.html
Cocoa butter, used to make chocolate,
will remain below last year’s average in  Europe  and the U.S. as
buying ahead of Halloween and Christmas won’t be enough to lift
prices, Bloomberg surveys showed.  Ratios for European cocoa butter will be 1.08 to 1.3 times
the price of London cocoa until the end of the year, according
to the median in a Bloomberg survey of nine traders and brokers.
The ratio is followed by the industry as an indication of
demand. The average cocoa butter ratio in the Netherlands was
1.4 last year and 1.825 in 2009, according to data on Bloomberg.  “Unless new demand comes with the start of what used to be
the strongest buying period in the year, from September to
November, I don’t think we will see ratios climb above 1.3,”
said Javier Almela, chief purchasing officer at Natra SA in
Valencia,  Spain , which buys almost 40,000 metric tons of cocoa a
year for processing into chocolate used by foodmakers.  Cocoa butter accounts for as much as 20 percent of the
weight of a chocolate bar, according to Commodities Risk
Analysis LC, a cocoa research company based in New York. The
U.S. cocoa butter ratio will be 1.2 to 1.4 times the price of
cocoa on ICE Futures U.S., according to the median of six
analysts and traders in a separate Bloomberg survey. It averaged
1.79 last year, according to data on Bloomberg.  Demand for cocoa butter fell after the global economic
recession in 2008, Marex Spectron Group said in a report on July
6. Chocolate sales in Western Europe fell 6.6 percent to about
$35.7 billion in 2009, according to data from consumer research
company Euromonitor.  Smaller Bars  Butter usage fell as manufacturers cut the size of
chocolate bars, said Steven Haws, founder of Commodities Risk.  “I can’t think of any company that has not reduced the
size of its bars or number of items in package,” he said in an
e-mail. Confectioners are now benefiting from the lower price of
butter, he said. “The chocolate confectionery manufacturers are
happy because an important ingredient will be less expensive,”
Haws wrote. “Other costs remain expensive.”  Global cocoa demand has exceeded production for 10 of the
past 15 years, data from the International Cocoa Organization
showed. A shortage of the beans, alongside volatile milk and
sugar prices, resulted in higher chocolate prices, Euromonitor
said.  “Price increases were met with some resistance from
consumers, and prompted chocolate confectionery manufacturers to
continue reducing the size of their products in order to sustain
retail value gains in chocolate confectionery,” Anastasia
Alieva, an analyst at Euromonitor, wrote in a report in July.  Increased Prices  Hershey, Pennsylvania-based Hershey, which began making
chocolate more than a century ago, increased prices by an
average of 9.7 percent in March. Vevey, Switzerland-based Nestle
SA, the world’s largest food company, is forecasting the
biggest-ever increase in its raw-material bill. Zurich-based
Barry Callebaut AG said June 30 that it expected prices for
cocoa, sugar and milk powder to remain high and volatile.  An increase in grinding capacity in cocoa producing nations
has also contributed to lower cocoa butter ratios.  Indonesia ,
the world’s third largest cocoa producer, aims to produce 43
percent more powder and butter next year to 400,000 tons,
overtaking  Malaysia  as  Asia ’s biggest cocoa processor, Piter
Jasman, chairman of Indonesia’s Cocoa Industry Association,
said at a conference in Bali on July 8.  The country has imposed a 5 percent to 15 percent tax on
cocoa bean exports if New York prices range from $2,000 to more
than $3,500 a ton since April last year in a bid to stimulate
local cocoa processing.  ‘Glut Situation’  “What is creating this glut situation is that demand for
powder is increasing, especially in Asia, and hence grinding
capacities are on the rise,” said Roland Jansen, the chief
executive officer of Altendorf, Switzerland-based Mother Earth
Investments AG, which manages about $40 million.  Grinding capacity is expanding as demand for cocoa powder
is rising, especially in emerging markets, according to the
International Cocoa Organization. Consumption of powder-based
products is usually less sensitive to cocoa prices as they
contain relatively low percentage levels of cocoa, the London-
based ICCO said in its June report.  Cocoa powder is found in products including baked goods,
ice cream and  breakfast cereals , Commodity Risk’s Haws said. It
usually accounts for 3 to 10 percent of the weight of a product,
he said. “Whereas 10 years ago, much less powder was consumed
than butter, today slightly more powder is consumed than
butter,” Haws said.  The increase in consumption of cocoa powder, coupled with a
drop in demand for butter, resulted in powder prices overtaking
cocoa butter, a “rare occurrence” in the last 30 years, Marex
said in the July report.  “We believe that the current unusual relationship between
cocoa butter ratios and cocoa powder prices is likely to
continue until gross domestic product growth in high income,
high chocolate consuming countries recovers to pre-financial
crisis levels.”  To contact the reporter ons this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net ;
Debarati Roy in  New York  at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 