-- 
Coffee Jumps on Brazil Frost Concern; Cotton, Orange Juice Fall

-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 
2011-08-05T19:54:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/coffee-jumps-on-brazil-frost-concern-cotton-orange-juice-fall.html
Coffee futures jumped to the highest
in more than two weeks on concern that cold weather may have
damaged the crop in  Brazil , the world’s biggest producer. Cotton
and orange juice dropped.  An overnight cold spell may have caused frost to develop in
some growing areas in Brazil’s Parana state, possibly hurting
yield potential for next year’s crop, state agricultural analyst
Adriano Nunomura said by telephone.  “There could have been some damage,”  Jack Scoville , a
commodity analyst at Price Futures Group Inc. in Chicago, said
in a telephone interview. “People want to know the extent of
the effect of the frost.”  Arabica coffee for September delivery rose 2.15 cents, or
0.9 percent, to settle at $2.419 a pound at 2 p.m. on ICE
Futures U.S. in New York. Earlier, the price reached $2.512, the
highest since July 19. The most-active contract rose 1 percent
for the week, the first such gain since July 1.  In May, coffee surged to $3.089, the highest in 14 years,
as excessive rainfall hurt crops in Colombia, the second-biggest
grower of arabica beans. Since then, the commodity has fallen as
supply concerns eased.  In  London , robusta-coffee futures for September delivery
climbed $17, or 0.8 percent, to $2,062 a metric ton on NYSE,
rising for the first time in three days.  Arabica is grown mainly in  Latin America  and brewed by
specialty companies including  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  Robusta beans,
used in instant coffee, are harvested mostly in Asia and parts
of Africa.  Cotton, Orange Juice  In New York, cotton futures for December delivery fell 3.34
cents, or 3.2 percent, to $1.0158 a pound on ICE, falling 0.2
percent this week, the eighth decline in nine weeks.  Orange-juice futures for September delivery slumped 8.95
cents, or 4.7 percent, to $1.8115 a pound on ICE, dropping the
most since October. Earlier, the price touched $1.802, the
lowest since June 20.  The commodity declined after Tropical Storm Emily
dissipated in the Atlantic Ocean, easing the threat to groves in
Florida, the biggest producer of oranges after Brazil,  Jimmy Tintle , an analyst at Transworld Futures, said in an interview
from Tampa, Florida.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debarati Roy in  New York  at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  