-- 
Cohen, SAC Should Be Dropped From Fairfax Short-Selling Suit, Lawyer Says

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-08-05T22:25:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/cohen-sac-should-be-dropped-from-fairfax-short-selling-suit-lawyer-says.html
Billionaire  Steven A. Cohen  and his
SAC Capital Advisors LP should be dropped from a lawsuit
accusing it and other hedge funds of conspiring to spread
negative information about  Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. (FFH) , a
lawyer argued in court.  Fairfax, a Toronto-based insurer, sued the hedge funds in
2006, alleging they acted to harm the company because they were
betting its stock price would decline. Fairfax seeks more than
$8 billion in damages.  “We simply didn’t do anything to injure Fairfax,” Martin B. Klotz, a lawyer for Cohen and SAC Capital, told New Jersey
Superior Court Judge Stephan C. Hansbury today in Morristown.
“We did nothing to participate in the enterprise alleged
here.”  Fairfax alleges that the funds coaxed John Gwynn, a former
insurance analyst at Morgan Keegan & Co. in  Memphis ,  Tennessee ,
into giving them his negative Fairfax reports before they were
published. It also says the funds disseminated false information
about the company to the media, the government and ratings
services.  The  hedge funds  named in the suit, including  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based SAC Capital,  James Chanos ’s New York-based
Kynikos Associates LP and  Daniel Loeb ’s New York-based Third
Point LLC, have denied Fairfax’s accusations.  Cohen and SAC Capital asked Hansbury to rule in their favor
without the need of a trial.  Enough Evidence  Michael J. Bowe, a lawyer for Fairfax, said there was
enough evidence in the case to present to a jury.  “Certainly there’s evidence that SAC was part of the group
that was working with John Gwynn,” Bowe said.  Hansbury said he would issue his ruling this month.  In December 2003 and January 2004, when Fairfax alleges SAC
Capital was “shorting” the stock in anticipation of Gwynn’s
first report, it was actually eliminating its short position and
buying the stock, Klotz said.  It held a long Fairfax position for most of 2004 and no
Fairfax position in 2005, when the funds are accused of hiring
an outside analyst, Spiro Contogouris, to spread false Fairfax
information, Klotz said.  Short Trades  SAC Capital didn’t include in its calculations its short
trades in Fairfax unit Odyssey Re Holdings, Bowe said. SAC Capital
also had indirect short sales in Fairfax through its investments
in New York-based Exis Capital Management Inc. and Bridger
Capital Management LLC, he said.  SAC Capital, with $14 billion in assets, didn’t control
what Exis and Bridger invested in, Klotz said.  Exis is a defendant in the case. Bridger isn’t.  In a short sale, an investor sells borrowed shares hoping
to return them later with stock bought at a lower cost,
pocketing the difference.  “The evidence shows that SAC never participated in any
short-selling scheme, never made any defamatory statements about
Fairfax to anyone, never conspired with anyone to injure Fairfax
and had no motive to injure Fairfax,” Cohen and SAC Capital
wrote in court papers.  Bowe said it was inconceivable that Cohen wasn’t part of
other funds’ conversations about attacking Fairfax.  Morgan Keegan, a unit of Birmingham, Alabama-based bank
company  Regions Financial Corp. (RF) , fired Gwynn in 2008 for
disclosing research on Fairfax to selected clients before
publication. He has since died.  Last month, SAC Capital asked Hansbury to disqualify Bowe’s
 New York  law firm, Kasowitz Benson Torres & Friedman LLP, from
representing Fairfax in the case, alleging its investigators
talked with a former defendant who was represented by counsel,
violating ethics rules. Hansbury hasn’t ruled on that request.  Klotz is a partner at Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP in New
York. The firm’s clients include Bloomberg LP, the parent of
Bloomberg News.  The case is Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. v. SAC Capital
Management LLC, L-2032-06, Superior Court of New Jersey, Morris
County (Morristown).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Morristown,  New Jersey , at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 