-- 
Coming Lobbyist Brawl May (Really) Fix Our Taxes: Jonathan Alter

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 
2011-08-05T00:00:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/coming-lobbyist-brawl-may-really-fix-our-taxes-jonathan-alter.html
Lobbyists, of all people, may soon
inadvertently bring us what lobbyists have long fought against -
- a flatter, simpler  tax code  that offers fewer gifts for
special interests. As a bonus, it would also help bring down the
deficit.  To understand why this happy result may be in reach, we
must return to a subject you’re sick of: the much-maligned deal
Congress struck to lift the debt ceiling. That deal set up a
process that might not advantage the forces of extortion in the
same way the old one did.  The new law cuts about $900 billion in discretionary
spending and establishes a 12-person “supercommittee” to find
$1.5 trillion in additional savings over 10 years. At least
they’ll be looking in the right places: tax reform and
entitlement reform. With a mere majority of the 12 required,
they must present a bill to Congress for an up-or-down vote (no
amendments) by Christmas. If the bill fails, the now-famous
triggers will  automatically cut  $1.2 trillion, half from defense
and half from non-defense programs, including Medicare.  The rock-hard assumption in  Washington  this week is that
the supercommittee can’t possibly get anything done. Depressed
Democrats, girding to fight the last war, are certain that
Republicans will gladly take hostages once again rather than
make concessions on the revenue side.  In this scenario, the triggers will be allowed to go off
because the cuts aren’t scheduled to begin until 2013. Both
sides will put off the reckoning until the lame-duck session of
Congress after the 2012 elections. At that point, with the Bush
tax cuts about to expire, Republicans would finally have an
incentive to make a deal.  Sword of Damocles  Maybe the whole thing will go as predicted. But this
pessimistic outlook neglects what will happen when the
 supercommittee , arguably the most powerful joint committee in
the past century, meets for 2 1/2 months this fall. It has the
option to hold public hearings, which were included in part to
make clear the Sword of Damocles hanging over the process.  Lobbyists will face a tough choice: accept either drastic
cuts to programs they care about or an end to loopholes that
benefit their clients. Usually, when it comes to simplifying the
tax code, all the lobbying muscle lines up in united opposition.
This time, a big chunk of special interests will fight in favor
of reform -- because the alternative will be worse.  Both in public and private, the committee will hear from
defense contractors and the Pentagon about the devastating
effects that $600 billion in across-the-board defense cuts would
have on the armed forces and on the communities in all 50 states
that depend on military spending. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta 
 warned in a letter  posted online Wednesday that such cuts “would
do real damage to our security, our troops and their families.”
The delay of a year before the cuts bite would be little
comfort.  Simultaneously, lobbyists for the hospitals and doctors who
would absorb part of the other $600 billion in across-the-board
cuts will crawl all over  Capitol Hill , with the AARP not far
behind. These are among the most powerful lobbyists around.  Entitlements and Taxes  So, with the threat of these cuts looming, the incentive is
actually there for progress on entitlement and tax reform. To
show they aren’t intransigent like Republicans, Democrats on the
supercommittee might agree to some adjustments in the way the
 Consumer Price Index  is calculated. The so-called chained CPI
issue is complicated enough that it could slide through without
being denounced as an unconscionable cut in benefits. It would
save $300 billion over 10 years.  The greater action will probably be on taxes. As much as $1
trillion could be saved by eliminating deductions and credits.
Part of the savings could be used to lower the corporate rate
and other taxes, a crowd-pleaser for Republicans, and part for
deficit reduction.  The Bowles-Simpson  deficit-reduction commission  estimated
that if all tax favors were eliminated, income-tax brackets of
12 percent, 18 percent and 22 percent would yield the same
revenue as today’s code.  Simplify, Simplify  That’s not going to happen. The mortgage-interest deduction
won’t be repealed or even much adjusted in the middle of a
housing meltdown. Nor will the tax break for charity. But the
larger idea of lowering some rates and simplifying the tax code
in exchange for eliminating deductions “is the only  tax reform 
that has legs,” says Maya MacGuineas of the Committee for a
Responsible Federal Budget. “You could get into serious,
significant revenue that way.”  The early omens aren’t good. House Speaker  John Boehner  and
Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  have already said the six
Republican members they will appoint must oppose new  tax
revenue . Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  and House Minority
Leader  Nancy Pelosi  say the same about their six Democratic
appointees and cuts to entitlements.  Real Deal  But there’s more wriggle room than the posturing would
suggest. During negotiations with the White House, Boehner
tentatively agreed to $400 billion in revenue increases by
closing loopholes and ending tax favors. Even House Majority
Leader  Eric Cantor  was willing to accept some loophole-closing
before his theatrical exit from the talks.  On the other side, the White House acknowledged that any
responsible reduction of the deficit must include changes in
Medicare. To the consternation of liberals, President  Barack Obama  was willing to cut hundreds of billions from the program.  Republicans have six seats on the supercommittee but only
one, probably from the House, is expected to be filled by a bona
fide Tea Party member. (We’ll find out by early September who
gets the assignments.) So all it takes to pass a sensible deal
on increasing revenue is one Republican who understands the true
scope of the deficit problem -- and who’s willing to defy the
party’s absolutists.  That would help not only our oft-mentioned grandchildren
but us, too. With a real deal, we might actually be able to do
our taxes without an advanced degree in accounting.  ( Jonathan Alter , the author of “The Defining Moment: FDR’s
Hundred Days and the Triumph of Hope,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 