-- 
Cuba Court Upholds 15-Year Sentence of U.S. Contractor for Alleged Spying

-- B y   E r i c   S a b o
-- 
2011-08-05T20:23:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/cuba-court-upholds-15-year-sentence-of-u-s-contractor-for-alleged-spying.html
Cuba’s  Supreme Court  rejected an
appeal by U.S. contractor Alan Gross to be released from a 15-
year prison sentence for alleged spying.  The court claimed that Gross, who had been arrested in
December 2009 after distributing computer equipment on the
communist island, was part of a U.S. campaign “aimed at
destabilizing the country,” according to a statement published
today on the Cuban government-run website  Cubadebate .  The U.S. State Department deplored the ruling and called on
President  Raul Castro ’s government to release Gross immediately.
Acting spokesperson Mark Toner said in a statement that the U.S.
will continue to use every available diplomatic channel to press
for his release.  The ruling comes as President  Barack Obama  has pledged to
improve relations and loosen travel with Cuba, which has been
under a U.S. trade embargo for almost five decades. While the
court’s decision is “disappointing,” the Cuban government may
still release Gross for humanitarian reasons, said Wayne Smith,
director of the Cuba program at the Washington-based  Center for
International Policy .  “The Cubans can say that he was guilty of what he was
accused of, but they can come out looking good if they release
him ," Smith, who was chief of mission at the U.S. Interest
Section in  Havana  from 1979 to 1982, said in a phone interview.  Health Problems  Gross worked on the Caribbean island for  Development
Alternatives International , a subcontractor for the State
Department’s Agency for International Development. Gross, 62,
loss about 90 pounds in prison and suffers from health problems,
according to his lawyer Peter Kahn.  “Alan Gross has done nothing more than help peaceful
people gain access to the Internet,” DAI’s Chief Executive
Officer, James Boomgard, said in an e-mailed statement after the
ruling.  “We urge that the Cuban government take into account
the medical situation confronting Alan and his family, and
quickly allow him to come home.”  Obama lifted travel restrictions to Cuba established under
former President  George W. Bush , allowing educational and church
groups greater freedom to visit the country and letting higher
education institutions sponsor travel to Cuba in January for
course work. American citizens are also allowed to send as much
as $500 every three months to Cuban citizens who aren’t part of
the Castro administration or members of the Communist Party.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Sabo in Panama City at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  