-- 
DAX Stock Index Falls for Eighth Day, Extending Longest Decline Since 1993

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-08-05T08:18:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/dax-stock-index-falls-for-eighth-day-extending-longest-decline-since-1993.html
Germany ’s benchmark  DAX Index (DAX) 
retreated for an eighth day, its longest declining streak since
April 1993, amid concern that the global economic recovery is
stalling and  Europe  is struggling to contain the debt crisis.  The DAX slumped 2.3 percent to 6,269.05 as of 10:16 a.m. in
 Frankfurt , its lowest level since October. The measure has
retreated 17 percent from this year’s high on May 2 as investors
speculated that Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis would derail the
region’s economic recovery. The decline has left the DAX trading
at 10.1 times the reported earnings of its companies, the lowest
since 2008.  “The economy is deteriorating and tensions in Europe have
increased. We could see a collapse of the European Monetary
Union in the next few months,” said Christian Stocker, a
Munich-based strategist at UniCredit SpA. “Markets hate
uncertainty, and everybody tries to save the money at the
moment.”  U.S. reports this week showed an unexpected drop in
 consumer spending  and slower-than-forecast growth in
manufacturing. Ratings companies said they may downgrade the
debt of the world’s biggest economy even after President  Barack
Obama  signed a measure to increase the government’s debt ceiling
to prevent default.  Yield Spreads Widen  Italian, Spanish and Belgian bonds opened lower today,
driving yields on the securities relative to German bunds to the
highest since before the euro was introduced in 1999.  The VDAX-NEW Index, which measures the cost of using
options as insurance against declines in the DAX, rose to the
highest level in more than a year today. The gauge jumped 8.5
percent to 32.61 as of 10:09 a.m. in Frankfurt in an eighth
consecutive daily gain, the longest rising streak since 2004.  More than half of DAX companies that reported their
quarterly earnings since July 11 have lagged behind estimates,
Bloomberg data show.  “I think analysts will lower their expectations a bit,”
said Christian Schick, head of  portfolio management  at BNP
Paribas Investment Partners in Frankfurt. “We will see earnings
downgrades slowly coming in for 2011 and 2012.”  -- Editors: Tom Lavell, Robert Valpuesta  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  