-- 
Decade of Fiscal Stimulus Yields Nothing but Debt: Caroline Baum

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 
2011-08-05T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/decade-of-fiscal-stimulus-yields-nothing-but-debt-caroline-baum.html
When  George W. Bush  took up residence
in the White House in January 2001, total  U.S. debt  stood at
$5.95 trillion. Last week it was $14.3 trillion, with $2.4
trillion freshly authorized by Congress Tuesday.  Ten years and $8.35 trillion later, what do we have to show
for this decade of deficit spending? A glut of unoccupied homes,
unemployment exceeding 9 percent, a stalled economy and a huge
mountain of debt. Real gross domestic product growth averaged
1.6 percent from the first quarter of 2001 through the second
quarter of 2011.  It doesn’t sound like a very good trade-off. And now
Keynesians are whining about discretionary spending cuts of $21
billion next year? That’s one-half of one percent. And it
qualifies as a “cut” only in the fanciful world of government
accounting.  The  Budget Control Act of 2011  will save $917 billion over
10 years relative to the  Congressional Budget Office ’s baseline.
It leaves the tough work to a bipartisan congressional committee
of 12, to be appointed by the leadership in each house. If this
supercommittee fails to agree on a minimum of $1.2 trillion of
additional savings over 10 years, automatic spending cuts --
evenly divided between defense and nondefense -- will kick in.  Is there any reason to think the same folks who couldn’t
agree on a grand bargain this past month will join hands and
find commonality in the next three, with one month off for
vacation?  Rosy Scenario  Even if the committee agrees on the prescribed savings by
Nov. 23 and Congress enacts them by Dec. 23, as required, laws
passed today aren’t binding on future congresses.  Throw in the fact that revenue and budget forecasts tend to
be overly optimistic, and there’s even less reason to think
Congress has put the U.S. on a sound fiscal path.  In a July 2011  working paper  for the  National Bureau of
Economic Research , Harvard economist  Jeffrey Frankel  identified
a pattern of over-optimism in official forecasts, a bias that
gets bigger in outer years. (Who can forget the CBO’s 2001
estimate of a 10-year, $5.7 trillion  budget surplus ?) A fixed
budget rule, such as the euro area’s Stability and Growth Pact
with its mandated deficit-to-GDP ratios, only exacerbates the
tendency.  “Political leaders meet their target by adjusting their
forecasts rather than by adjusting their policies,” Frankel
writes.  First Installment  The deal hashed out in  Washington  at the eleventh hour this
week does nothing to curb the unsustainable growth of
entitlement spending -- on programs such as Medicare, Medicaid
and Social Security. Medicare outlays have risen 9 percent a
year for the last 30 years in a period of stable demographics,
according to Steven Wieting, U.S. economist at Citigroup Inc.
The automatic  spending cuts  outlined in the budget act would
limit reductions in Medicare expenditures to no more than 2
percent a year.  By the end of 2012 or start of 2013, the federal government
will be back at the trough with a request for additional
borrowing authority. The debt will keep rising, and the ratio of
publicly held  debt to GDP  will increase from 62 percent last
year to as much as 90 percent in 2021, according to some  private
estimates , depending on what Congress does about the expiring
tax cuts, the Medicare “doc fix” and the alternative minimum
tax.  The CBO’s estimate of $2.1 trillion in savings over 10
years is well short of the $4 trillion  Standard & Poor’s  says is
necessary to stabilize the debt and avoid a rating downgrade.  ‘Architectural Change’  No matter. Some prominent Keynesians are advocating more
spending now for an economy that is sputtering. Alas, there is
little appetite in this country, and less in Congress, for more
spending in light of the questionable results. A lost decade
doesn’t seem like a good return on an $8.35 trillion investment.
(For purists, only $6 trillion of the increase was in marketable
debt, the kind of good old deficit spending Keynesians love.)  Maybe it’s time to try something new and different. In 2002
I wrote a column titled, “How About Some  Tax Reform  Along With
Tax Relief?”  How about it? Get rid of the loopholes. Better yet, scrap
the entire  tax code , which would decimate the lobbying industry.
Implement a flat tax or a national  sales tax . The time has come
for what former Treasury Secretary  Paul O’Neill  calls
“architectural change.”  Can the Code  The current tax code is burdensome, inefficient and costly
to administer. O’Neill says it costs the Treasury an estimated
$800 billion annually, divided equally between administrative
costs and uncollected revenue.  Eliminate the corporate and individual income tax, he says,
and replace them with a value-added or  consumption tax , with tax
refundability for lower-income households.  “We should focus the tax system on raising revenue for the
things we as a society need,” O’Neill says.  Of course, what society needs is a matter of opinion.
Without strong economic growth, the options are more limited,
the choices more difficult. Fiscal stimulus can have only a
short-term impact. The government taxes or borrows from Peter to
pay Paul, reflecting a temporary transfer of resources, nothing
more.  What does the nation have to show for chronic short-term
thinking and policies like these? Long-term problems and a
mountain of debt.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 