-- 
Delhaize Retreats Most in Nine Months as U.S. Margins Shrink

-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 
2011-08-05T16:03:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/delhaize-shares-decline-most-in-one-year-as-u-s-margins-shrink.html
Delhaize Group SA (DELB) , the owner of the
Food Lion supermarkets, fell the most in nine months in Brussels
as the grocer’s efforts to revive sales in the U.S., its biggest
profit pool, reduced earnings more than analysts estimated.  Delhaize dropped 3.5 percent to 45.39 euros at the 5:40
p.m. close of trading in Brussels, the biggest decline since
Oct. 14. Second-quarter earnings before interest and tax
declined 7.8 percent to 209 million euros ($296 million) and
rose 0.5 percent when adjusting for a weaker dollar, the
Brussels-based company said today in a statement. That missed
the 221 million-euro average of 14 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Sales at Delhaize’s U.S. stores open at least a year rose
1.6 percent, the first advance in two years. The grocer
remodeled about 200 Food Lion stores in  North Carolina  and
 Tennessee , the first phase of a full brand overhaul that should
be completed by the end of next year. Delhaize, which aims to
fund price cuts and Food Lion store remodelings from cost-
cutting initiatives, said savings were “slower than expected”
in the quarter and forecast its U.S. margin won’t be
“materially” affected in the long term.  “Another set of disappointing results despite very low
comps,” Xavier Le Mene, an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG in
 London  who has an “underperform” recommendation for the stock,
wrote in a note. “The U.S. was the key highlight and well below
expectations in terms of operating profit.”  Food Retailer  The Belgian food retailer’s market value has fallen 18
percent since the start of the year to 4.62 billion euros and
today’s closing value was the lowest since March 2009. The 10-
company Bloomberg Europe Food Retailers Index has lost almost 20
percent so far this year.  Delhaize last week completed the purchase of Delta Maxi
DOO, Serbia’s largest food retailer, for 932.5 million euros
including debt to revive sales growth and decrease the relative
weight of its U.S. operations. Delta Maxi’s markets will expand
5 percent to 7 percent annually in the next four years, at least
twice as fast as Western Europe, according to Delhaize.  The transaction valued the operator of almost 500 stores in
Serbia, Montenegro, Bosnia, Albania and  Bulgaria  at 10.4 times
to 11 times estimated 2011 earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization, Delhaize said in March. That’s
more than twice Delhaize’s own multiple of 3.94 times Ebitda,
based on 2011 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Operating Profit  Delhaize expects Delta Maxi will add to earnings starting
in the current quarter and Chief Executive Officer Pierre- Olivier Beckers reiterated Delhaize’s forecast for an
acceleration in operating profit at identical exchange rates
throughout the year. The 0.5 percent increase in the second
quarter followed a 10.1 percent decline in the preceding three-
month period.  “When we say that we anticipate an acceleration of the
momentum, we’re definitely looking at an improvement on that
figure in the third and fourth quarter,” Beckers told analysts
on a conference call today. “So it’s clearly moving into
positive figures, absolutely.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  