-- 
Dollar Declines Versus Most Peers on Growth in U.S. Payrolls; Euro Climbs

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   J o e   R a g a z z o
-- 
2011-08-05T21:21:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/dollar-falls-as-payrolls-expand-more-than-forecast-damping-refuge-demand.html
The dollar declined against a
majority of its most-traded counterparts as U.S. employers added
more jobs than forecast in July and the  unemployment rate  fell,
damping demand for refuge.  The euro climbed versus the dollar as Italian Prime
Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  said his nation will speed up its
austerity measures, spurring speculation the European Central
Bank will buy its bonds. The yen was up against the greenback a
day after Japan moved to weaken it as stocks fluctuated amid
concern the U.S. could still lose its top  credit rating .  “Any kind of indication that growth is holding up,
especially outside of  Europe , will be very important going
forward,” said  Jens Nordvig , a managing director of currency
research and head of Americas fixed-income research in New York
at Nomura Holdings Inc. “We need to see more data of this
nature in coming weeks to really stabilize sentiment.”  The dollar fell 1.3 percent to $1.4282 per euro at 5 p.m.
in  New York , cutting its gain for the week to 0.8 percent. It
declined 0.6 percent to 78.40 yen after earlier gaining 0.7
percent. The greenback advanced 2.1 percent versus the Japanese
currency for the week, the most since April 1. The euro rose 0.7
percent to 111.97 yen, from 111.16 yesterday.  U.S. payrolls rose by 117,000 workers after a 46,000
increase in June that was more than originally estimated, Labor
Department data showed today in Washington. The median estimate
in a Bloomberg News survey projected a gain of 85,000. The
jobless rate dropped to 9.1 percent, from 9.2 percent.  ‘Some Caution’  “This is a good number,” said  Brian Taylor , chief
currency trader at Manufacturers & Traders Trust Co. in Buffalo,
New York. “There’s still going to be some caution just because
even though the numbers are actually good and U.S.-positive,
there’s still a global issue going on.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index ended the day little
changed after rising 1.5 percent and falling 2.7 percent. It
plunged 4.8 percent yesterday.  “Stocks have been absolutely schizophrenic today, and the
 U.S. dollar  has been moving basically in lock-step with that,”
said John Doyle, a strategist in  Washington  at the currency-
trading firm Tempus Consulting Inc.  Australia ’s dollar fell versus most major peers as risk
appetite ebbed and the nation’s central bank lowered its
forecast for growth. The Aussie fell 0.8 percent to 81.87 yen
and touched 81.42 yen, the lowest since March. It fell 0.2
percent to $1.0443.  More Proof Needed  While the employment data may provide a boost to U.S.
markets, Federal Reserve policy makers, meeting Aug. 9, will
likely need more proof the economy is strengthening before they
alter their views on  interest rates , Nomura’s Nordvig said.  Rate futures signaled traders are pushing back until 2013
expectations for when the Fed raises its target for overnight
loans between banks. It has been zero to 0.25 percent since
December 2008.  U.S. gross domestic product grew at a 1.3 percent pace in
the second quarter, less than forecast, after almost stalling at
the start of the year as consumers retrenched, government data
showed on July 29. President  Barack Obama  signed a bill Aug. 2
that raised the nation’s debt ceiling and lowers federal
spending, fueling concern budget cuts will weigh on the economy.  S&P placed the U.S. on “CreditWatch” on July 14, saying
there was a 50 percent chance its AAA rating would be cut within
90 days even if an agreement were reached by the Aug. 2 debt-cap
deadline. The company said it needs to see “a credible solution
to the rising U.S. government debt  A spokesman for S&P, John Piecuch, said in an e-mail the
company won’t comment on speculation the rating will be cut.
Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings this week affirmed
their AAA ratings on the U.S.  European Debt  European leaders hunted for solutions to the region’s debt
crisis. A divided  European Central Bank  restarted a bond-
purchase program yesterday after a four-month hiatus. It refused
to extend the purchases to  Italy  and  Spain , the two countries at
the center of the current turmoil, sending yields on 10-year
Italian debt to a euro-area record and keeping Spanish yields at
almost a record.  The euro gained today versus most peers amid speculation
“the ECB is now willing to buy the debt of Spain and Italy if
the Italians make financial reforms,” said  Joseph Trevisani ,
chief market analyst at FX Solutions Inc. in Saddle River,  New
Jersey . “It shows you how much concern there really was in the
markets for financial contagion out of Europe,” he said.  Prime Minister Berlusconi said at a news conference in  Rome 
that Italy will seek a balanced budget in 2013, a year earlier
than planned.  Franc Record  The franc touched a record versus the dollar today even
after the Swiss National Bank President Philipp Hildebrand said
policy makers won’t exclude any measures to curb the currency’s
advance. He spoke with Neue Zuercher Zeitung in an interview.
The bank on Aug. 3 lowered its target for the three-month London
interbank offered rate to “as close to zero as possible” to
weaken the currency and protect Switzerland’s economy.  “Hildebrand has thrown down the gauntlet,” said Yra Harris, chief trader and analyst at Praxis Trading in  Chicago .
“Markets are going to push at him until he shows that they have
a real plan for weakening the currency.”  The Swiss currency fell 0.5 percent against the dollar to
76.74 centimes after earlier reaching a record 75.79 centimes.
It was down 1.8 percent to 1.0954 per euro, dropping from a
record 1.0711 reached earlier.  The yen dropped yesterday and the franc gained after  Japan 
sold its currency to stem its rise for the third time after six
years of a hands-off approach that ended in September 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Ragazzo in New York at 
 jragazzo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  