-- 
DST Systems Hires Merrill After Rejecting RDG Capital’s June Buyout Offer

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 
2011-08-05T20:07:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/dst-systems-hires-merrill-lynch-and-skadden-arps-to-review-business.html
DST Systems Inc. (DST) , the software
provider that rejected a June buyout bid from private-equity
firm RDG Capital LLC, said it hired bankers to review its
business.  DST, which is based in  Kansas City ,  Missouri , and provides
information processing and manages data for financial-services
firms and other sectors, has retained Bank of America Merrill
Lynch and Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP to advise its
board, it said in a statement today. Stinson Morrison Hecker LLP
is providing legal advice.  DST has been approached by three other private-equity
companies as it faces pressure to boost its share price, Russell Glass, founder of RDG Capital, said in June. The company, which
previously said it wanted to stay independent, reported second-
quarter earnings that missed analysts’ estimates as financial-
service sales declined 3.3 percent and shareowner accounts
serviced fell.  The company’s stock valuation doesn’t take into account its
portfolio of public and private companies, or its real-estate
investments, said Peter Heckmann, a Prairie Village, Kansas-
based analyst with Avondale Partners LLC.  “The simple fact is that the public market is never going
to give the company credit for these other assets,” said
Heckmann in a telephone interview. DST should “go ahead and
liquidate that $1.1 billion portfolio.”  Original Offer Stands  In today’s statement, DST also said it refused to sell
Glass the company’s stake in  State Street Corp. (STT) , and rejected a
proposal that he and two other people be added to its board.  Glass said today that he welcomes DST’s business review and
that his June offer, “in the $60s” per share, still stands.  “We believe the company has a strong business with
substantial asset value,” Glass said in a telephone interview.
“However it doesn’t benefit from being a publicly traded
company.”  Glass said he plans to contact DST in the coming days.  In a research note today, Heckmann said he believes the
company is worth $62 a share as a public company and $75 in a
buyout.  Nicholas Lamplough, a spokesman for DST at public-relations
firm Joele Frank, Wilkinson Brimmer Katcher, declined to comment
beyond the company’s statement.  Last month, DST reported earnings excluding some items of
$1.05 a share. That missed an average estimate of $1.08 from a
Bloomberg survey of analysts. Net income fell 41 percent to
$55.2 million from the year-earlier period.  Record-Keeping Headwinds  DST faces headwinds as the company’s main business,
providing record keeping and other services to mutual-fund
companies, has shifted to brokerages, said David Koning, an
analyst at Robert W Baird & Co. in  Milwaukee . Koning has an
“outperform” rating on the company’s shares, while Heckmann
rates them “market perform.”  Total revenue declined 5.2 percent to $582.2 million during
the second quarter and financial services operating sales fell
$9.2 million, or 3.3 percent because of “lower shareowner
processing and health-claims processing revenues,” the company
said in its earnings statement. DST said total shareowner
accounts serviced fell 1 million during the three months from
the prior quarter.  DST rose $1.98, or 4.3 percent, to $47.89 at 4:02 p.m. in
 New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
gained 8 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles@bloomberg.net . 