-- 
ECB’S Gonzalez-Paramo Says Spain Has a Lot to Do on Budget

-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 
2011-08-05T22:41:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/ecb-s-gonzalez-paramo-says-spain-has-a-lot-to-do-on-budget.html
European Central Bank Executive Board
member Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo urged  Spain  to step up its
fiscal and labor market reforms as it seeks to withstand
contagion from the region’s fiscal crisis.  “Spain still has a lot to do on the budget front,” said
Gonzalez-Paramo in an interview with Spanish radio Cadena Ser
broadcast yesterday. “Urgent measures also need to be taken to
reform the labor market.”  With stock markets sinking for an eighth day, European
leaders were hunting for solutions to shield Italy and Spain
from market turbulence. The ECB resumed its bond-buying program,
without extending the purchases to those two countries.  Umberto Bossi , leader of Italy’s co-ruling Northern League
party, said the ECB will start buying Italian bonds on Aug. 8,
as part of an exchange for the new economic measures unveiled by
 Italy ’s government yesterday, Ansa newswire reported.  Meanwhile, Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero resumed his vacation in the southern part of the
country, his office said in a text message yesterday evening.  Less than a day after first heading out on vacation,
Zapatero returned to his office on Aug. 3 to remain in close
contact with European leaders as the country’s borrowing costs
approached the 7 percent mark that heralded bailouts of  Greece ,
Portugal and Ireland.  EU Summit  Also yesterday, Zapatero spoke to French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and agreed to implement accords adopted at the European
Union July 21 summit as soon as possible, according to a
statement posted on the Spanish government website.  Zapatero spoke by telephone with Italian Prime Minister
 Silvio Berlusconi  and both agreed that the strong fluctuations
of recent days in sovereign debt markets make little sense.  “Markets want to see promises kept,” said Gonzalez-Paramo,
referring to the July 21 European Union summit which empowered
the rescue fund to buy bonds in the secondary market, offer
precautionary credit lines and lend to recapitalize banks.
Paramo said there are tensions in the market because the
European rescue fund can only act in theory until the changes
are implemented by European governments.  European finance ministers are likely to meet in early
September to speed up the implementation process of the July 21
accords, Spanish Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  said yesterday
to Spanish radio station RNE.  Spanish bonds rallied on speculation that policy makers may
take more action to arrest the crisis. The yield on Spain’s 10-
year bonds tumbled 25 basis points to 6.04 percent at 4:18 p.m.
in  London  yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  