-- 
ECB’s Makuch Accepts Bond Decision, Declines Further Comment

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k
-- 
2011-08-05T10:25:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/ecb-s-makuch-accepts-bond-decision-declines-further-comment.html
European Central Bank council member
Jozef Makuch said he accepts the bank’s decision to re-enter
bond markets while declining to say whether he supports it.  “I expressed my opinion on the bond purchases at the
Governing Council meeting,” Makuch, who heads the central bank
of Slovakia, said in an e-mailed response to questions from
Bloomberg News. “Since there has been an agreement made on the
Governing Council which I accept, I do not see any further
reasons for an additional comment.”  Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann opposed the decision to
resume bond purchases and was not the only dissenter, an
official familiar with the discussions said. ECB President Jean- Claude Trichet said yesterday that while the decision was not
unanimous, it was taken with an “overwhelming majority.” He also
said it’s important that the Governing Council “speak with one
voice when the decision is taken.”  The ECB, which ceased buying bonds four months ago, was
forced back into action yesterday after governments failed to
convince investors that a package of new measures will prevent
the debt crisis from spreading to Italy and  Spain , whose bond
yields have soared to euro-era records.  The ECB bought Portuguese and Irish  government bonds  for
the second straight day today, according to two people with
knowledge of the transactions. The central bank has not
purchased Italian or Spanish debt, suggesting it is reluctant to
put up the funds needed to tame a crisis it says governments are
responsible for fixing.  Makuch said it’s important that “all heads of state or
government of the euro area commit again to adhere strictly to
the agreed fiscal targets, while the reaction needs to be
flexible and fast.”  Asked if the European Financial Stability Facility should
be enlarged, Mukuch said “this is a question for the
representatives of the European Commission and the governments,
so I would recommend to ask them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  