-- 
ECB Said to Buy Bonds of Ireland, Portugal for Second Day to Counter Drop

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 
2011-08-05T15:02:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/ecb-said-to-buy-bonds-of-portugal-ireland-for-second-day-to-counter-drop.html
The  European Central Bank  bought
Portuguese and Irish  government bonds  for the second straight
day, according to two people with knowledge of the transactions.  The ECB bought large sizes of Irish securities, said one of
the people, who declined to be identified because the trades are
confidential. A Frankfurt-based central bank spokesman, who
asked not to be identified, declined to comment.  The yield on the Portuguese 10-year bond fell 21 basis
points to 11.09 percent at 3:20 p.m. in London. The Portuguese
two-year yield slid 159 basis points to 13.22 percent. The Irish
10-year yield slid 32 basis points to 10.08 percent.  “The message the ECB is sending to the market is that the
central bank is willing to help countries that play by the rules
and make efforts,” said  Ciaran O’Hagan , the head of European
interest-rate strategy at Society Generale in Paris. “Ireland
and  Portugal  are pushing ahead with their fiscal consolidation,
and they are being rewarded.”  The ECB, which ceased buying bonds four months ago, was
forced back into action from yesterday after European leaders
failed to convince investors that a package of new measures
agreed to last month will prevent the crisis from spreading.  The extra yield investors demand to hold 10-year Italian
bonds instead of the benchmark German bunds rose to a euro-era
record of 4.16 percentage points today.  The central bank hasn’t bought securities from Italy and
Spain, which according to Bloomberg data have a combined 2.2
trillion euros ($3.1 trillion) worth of outstanding bonds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Jenkins in  London  at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  