-- 
Economist Dennis Gartman Is Cutting Gold Position in Half

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-08-05T10:28:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/economist-dennis-gartman-is-cutting-gold-position-in-half-1-.html
Dennis Gartman , the economist who
correctly forecast 2008’s commodities slump, is cutting his gold
holding by half after prices yesterday reached a record before
closing below the previous day’s low.  Bullion rallied to $1,681.72 an ounce yesterday as turmoil
in financial markets boosted demand for the metal as protection
of wealth. It then closed down 0.9 percent as some investors
sold the metal to cover losses in other markets. Gartman this
week said the gold market has become “more and more crowded,”
as holdings in exchange-traded products climbed to a record.  “The gold market ‘reversed’ yesterday, making new all-time
highs and then closing on its lows and below the lows of the
previous day,” Gartman wrote today in his Virginia-based
Gartman Letter. “In the past this has always marked any number
of various market highs and certainly we do not think that gold
is any different.”  Gold climbed today and headed for a fifth weekly gain as
global equities dropped and commodities erased their gains for
the year on concern the U.S. recovery is faltering. U.S. and
European debt concerns have also pushed the metal priced in
euros and pounds to all-time highs. Gartman owns bullion in
those currencies.  Immediate-delivery gold traded at $1,664.93 by 11:27 a.m.
in  London  and is up 17 percent this year. It’s heading for an
11th straight annual gain, the longest winning streak since at
least 1920. Holdings of the metal in ETPs climbed to 2,182.6
metric tons yesterday, the most ever, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. That’s more than all except four central banks hold.  ’Wise To Liquidate’  “Given the circumstances prevailing in a world that shall
put a premium high upon liquidity we think it is wise to
liquidate our gold holdings,” Gartman said.  Gold’s advance this week lifted its 14-day relative
strength index to above 70, a signal to some analysts who study
technical charts of a potential impending drop.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities plunged
as much as 66 percent in the seven months through February 2009
after Gartman in June 2008 said there would be a “tidal wave”
of selling. The gauge fell as much as 2.6 percent today, wiping
out its 2011 gains, and was last little changed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 