-- 
Elcoteq Stock Falls After Platinum Stake Talks Fail, CEO Resigns

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-08-05T13:30:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/elcoteq-stock-falls-after-platinum-stake-talks-fail-ceo-resigns.html
Elcoteq SE (ELQAV) , a supplier of
manufacturing and repair services to companies such as Nokia Oyj
and Royal Philips Electronics NV, plunged as much as 29 percent
in Helsinki after announcing the end of private equity sale
talks and the resignation of its chief executive officer.  Elcoteq will seek other investors after negotiations with
Platinum Equity stalled on questions about Elcoteq’s future, the
Luxembourg-based company said in a statement. Lenders seeking
repayment have blocked bank accounts and seized customer
payments, Elcoteq said. CEO Jouni Hartikainen resigned today,
the company said in a separate statement.  Elcoteq fell as much as 11 euro cents to 27 cents and
traded at 31 cents as of 4:23 p.m., giving the company a market
value of 10.2 million euros ($14.5 million). The stock has
fallen 58 percent since July 18, when it said lenders led by
Danske Bank A/S were seeking repayments of a 48.5 million-euro
revolving credit facility that was due June 30.  “The future business outlook is very uncertain and the
company is only partially able to control its business
processes,” Elcoteq said today. “According to Mr. Hartikainen,
his ability to manage the company and to objectively safeguard
the benefits of all the company’s shareholders became impossible
due to the recent actions by the revolving credit facility
lenders.”  The company will be run by the board of directors for the
time being with Hartikainen’s support during his notice period,
it said.  Controlled Management  The company expanded by buying electronics factories in
 Europe  and building plants to grow in emerging markets along
with Nokia, the world’s biggest mobile-phone maker by volume. It
acquired Lewisville, Texas-based BroadTech in March to add
services such as repairs.  Elcoteq said today it will “review and reconsider the
prospects of continuing the controlled management process in
Luxembourg” with court-appointed experts.  Controlled management is a form of credit-protection filing
in Luxembourg, according to a  report  on the country’s legal
system by  Deloitte & Touche  on the European Commission’s
 website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  