-- 
Telecom Italia Sees Potential for Consolidation in Country

-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 
2011-08-05T10:22:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/telecom-italia-sees-potential-for-consolidation-in-country.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  Chairman Franco Bernabe said that while he sees “concrete potential” for phone
companies to combine in Italy, the country’s biggest operator is
not in talks with potential targets.  “The Italian domestic market could benefit from
consolidation but it’s too early to say if and how it will
materialize,” Bernabe said in a conference call today. “We’re
not in the process of negotiating anything, but we could be a
consolidator.”  Mergers may help stabilize the mobile and fixed-line
markets in Italy in the long term, Bernabe said.  Telecom Italia may acquire 3 Italia SpA, the local wireless
operator owned by  Li Ka-shing ’s  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) ,  Corriere
Della Sera  reported on Aug. 3. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Bank
of America Merrill Lynch are working on a merger plan without a
formal mandate, the Italian newspaper reported, without saying
how it got the information.  Hutchison Managing Director Canning Fok was asked yesterday
whether Hutchison received an approach from Telecom Italia, and
said: “Many opportunities come to us.” He wouldn’t elaborate.  3 Italia, with about 9.1 million customers, is the largest
business by subscribers within 3 Group, accounting for a third
of the total. Ranked No. 4 in  Italy  by customers, 3 Italia
earned 1 million euros before interest and taxes in the first
six months, compared with a 73 million-euro loss a year earlier,
Hutchison said. Revenue rose 2 percent.  The control of 3 Italia has been a subject of speculation
before. CEO Vincenzo Novari told  Il Sole 24 Ore  in November 2008
that his company and Telecom Italia discussed a merger plan and
dropped it after failing to agree on a price. The companies were
also concerned about antitrust approval, he was quoted as
saying.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  