-- 
Telecom Italia Reports First-Half Loss on $4.5 Billion Goodwill Writedown

-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 
2011-08-05T09:47:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/telecom-italia-reports-first-half-loss-on-4-5-billion-goodwill-writedown.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) , Italy’s biggest
phone company, climbed in Milan trading after reporting that
second-quarter earnings advanced 4.9 percent as revenue rose in
Brazil.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization climbed to 3.05 billion euros ($4.32 billion) from
2.91 billion euros a year earlier, the Milan-based company said
in  presentation slides  on its website today. Revenue advanced
9.7 percent to 7.47 billion euros. Analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg had estimated Ebitda of 3 billion euros on sales of
7.39 billion euros.  “The telecom sector has turned out to be defensive in the
sell-off but Telecom Italia has underperformed and today better-
than-expected earnings at the operational level are helping the
stock,” said Emanuele Vizzini, who manages more than 500
million euros including Telecom Italia stock as chief investment
officer of Investitori SGR in Milan.  Telecom Italia and other former phone monopolies in  Europe ,
such as Spain’s  Telefonica SA (TEF) , are suffering in their home
markets because of weak economies amid sovereign debt concerns.
To spur growth abroad, Telecom Italia’s Brazilian unit  Tim
Participacoes SA (TCSL4)  last month agreed to buy AES Atimus Group to
add network capacity in  Sao Paulo  and  Rio de Janeiro . Chairman
Franco Bernabe said today that Brazil is the “engine of
growth” for the group.  Brazil Growth  Brazilian revenue advanced 19 percent to 1.85 billion euros
in the quarter. Tim rose to joint-second place in Brazil for
market share of mobile-phone customers in June. It said Aug. 2
that second-quarter profit almost tripled after it added mobile-
phone subscribers, or 2.7 million lines. In  Latin America ,
Telecom Italia also controls  Telecom Argentina SA (TECO2) , the country’s
second-largest phone company.  Telecom Italia rose as much as 3.95 euro cents, or 4.9
percent, to 84.2 cents and traded 4.4 percent higher at 11:35
a.m. in Milan, giving the company a market value of 15.8 billion
euros. The stock has declined 13 percent this year, compared
with a 9.1 percent fall in the Bloomberg Europe
Telecommunication Services Index.  “The reason the shares have turned around and are up is
that clean Ebitda,” highlighting an improvement in underlying
trends, Saeed Baradar, a telecommunications sales specialist at
 Societe Generale  in  London , wrote in a note.  Telecom Italia said today domestic sales fell 7 percent to
4.76 billion euros in the three months through June, hurt by a
9.2 percent drop in mobile revenue.  Targets  The company had a first-half loss net loss of 2.01 billion
euros because of a 3.18 billion-euro writedown on goodwill
related to its domestic business.  The writedown was caused by “the deterioration of the
financial markets in terms of trends in  interest rates ,” it
said in the statement. Goodwill stood at  43.9 billion euros  at
the end of 2010. Bernabe said the writedown has no effect on the
debt reduction plan or dividend distribution.  To help revive its flagging performance at home, Telecom
Italia promoted Marco Patuano in April to chief operating
officer and managing director in charge of domestic operations.  “We’re confirming our targets despite the macro
deterioration,” Bernabe said on a conference call today.
“We’re confident to further improve performance in the second
half, year on year.”  The company can “maintain our deleveraging objective and
preserve our dividend policy at the same time,” Bernabe said.  ‘Outstanding Performance’  Telecom Italia repeated today that revenue excluding
currency swings, acquisitions and disposals will be “largely
stable” this year. So-called organic revenue rose 1 percent in
the first half and organic Ebitda dropped 2 percent.  “They can hit their group targets thanks to the
outstanding performance of Tim Brasil,”  Robin Bienenstock , an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in London, said in an e-mail.  Telecom Italia’s adjusted net debt at the end of June rose
to 31.1 billion euros from 30.6 billion euros at the end of
March.  Telefonica and partners Mediobanca SpA, Assicurazioni
Generali SpA and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  own about 22.5 percent of
Telecom Italia through an entity called Telco SpA, according to
Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  