-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Tumble, Currencies Weaken on Global Recession Risk

-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-08-05T22:24:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/emerging-market-stocks-tumble-currencies-weaken-on-global-recession-risk.html
Emerging-market stocks sank for a
fourth day, sending the benchmark index to its largest weekly
rout since May 2010, amid concerns about  Europe ’s debt crisis
and slower growth in the U.S. Currencies fell versus the dollar
this week.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell 3 percent to 1,041.07
at 4:30 p.m. in New York. The gauge entered a so-called
correction yesterday, falling more than 10 percent from this
year’s high.  Argentina ’s Merval Index deepened losses after
dropping the most yesterday among 91 equity benchmarks tracked
by Bloomberg.  Turkey ’s benchmark lost the most since May 2010
with a 5.2 percent slump and  Hungary ’s BUX Index fell 19 percent
from an April peak. Brazil’s Bovespa index added 0.3 percent,
still ending the week with a 10 percent decline, the most since
November 2008.  Russia ’s Micex Index fell 2 percent.  Borrowing costs for Italy and  Spain , the euro zone’s third-
and fourth-largest economies, have surged since an aid plan for
 Greece  and other euro-region nations approved July 21 by the
European Union summit failed to end contagion to more countries.
U.S. payrolls rose by a better-than-forecast 117,000 workers in
July, after a 46,000 increase in June that was more than
originally estimated, the Labor Department reported today. The
data wasn’t enough to buoy global markets.  MSCI’s emerging market index is down 14 percent since the
May 2 high. The drop today has extended this week’s slump to 8.5
percent. The gauge measuring stocks in developed nations has
also lost 8.6 percent over the past five days.  ‘Better Shape’  Templeton Asset Management’s  Mark Mobius  said emerging
economies are in “better shape” than developed nations amid
turmoil roiling global markets.  “We’re looking at equities all the time and equities are
looking better and better with all this turmoil,” Mobius, who
oversees about $50 billion as executive chairman of Templeton’s
emerging markets group, said in a Bloomberg Television interview
today. “The emerging markets are in much better shape than the
developed countries. If you look at the gross domestic product
levels, foreign exchange reserves, emerging markets are in a
very, very sweet spot.”  Relative borrowing costs in dollars for emerging markets
rose for the week amid concern about the global growth outlook.
The extra yield investors demand to own dollar bonds from
emerging-market governments over U.S. Treasuries rose 19 basis
points, or 0.19 percentage point, to 320 this week, according to
JPMorgan’s EMBI Global Index, the largest weekly gain since
January.  Yields Jump  The yield on Argentina’s dollar bonds due in 2038 leaped 46
basis points to 9.38 percent, the highest since September 2010.
The yield on the notes due 2020 sold by Gol Linhas Aereas
Inteligentes SA, Brazil’s second biggest airline, surged 75
basis points this week, while debt from Hypermarcas SA climbed
68 basis points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  All currencies in emerging markets weakened against the
dollar this week, with the South African rand, the Turkish lira
and Hungary’s forint falling more than 3 percent.  Taiwan’s benchmark Taiex Index plummeted 5.6 percent, the
sharpest drop since November 2008 and  South Korea ’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI) 
slid 3.7 percent, the biggest slide since November 2009.  Russia’s benchmark index slipped as much as 4.1 percent,
its sharpest drop since July 1 last year, as oil fell the most
since May this week in New York. OAO Sberbank, the country’s
largest lender, declined 2.7 percent.  Wildebeest  “The market is behaving like a pack of wildebeest and it’s
difficult to predict where they will go,”  Ivan Mazalov ,
director of Prosperity Capital Management, which manages more
than $5 billion of assets in Russia and former Soviet states,
said by phone today. “It’s panic driven, but the world didn’t
change overnight and we see buying opportunities.”  B2W Cia. Global de Varejo,  Brazil ’s biggest online retailer
and a subsidiary of Lojas Americanas SA, dropped 2.7 percent to
12.95 reais after posting a loss in the second quarter compared
with a profit a year earlier. Embraer SA, the world’s fourth-
largest planemaker, fell 2 percent to 9.75 reais, its lowest
price in more than a year.  Grupo Financiero Galicia SA, Argentina’s largest consumer
lender, dropped 2.8 percent after sinking 6.1 percent yesterday.  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of Chinese
companies’ H shares tumbled 3.9 percent. The Shanghai Composite
Index of shares fell 2.2 percent, the most in almost two weeks.  The Malaysian ringgit slid 1.1 percent today and 1.4
percent for the week, the worst performer among currencies
across Asian emerging countries.  South Korea’s won fell 0.5 percent versus the dollar. The
government will strengthen monitoring of capital flows and the
currency, bond and stock markets, the  finance ministry  said
today after an emergency meeting was held to discuss global
economic and financial market conditions.  The Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index of eastern European,
 Middle East  and Africa credit-default swaps climbed to 237 basis
points from 225.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 Lcao4@bloomberg.net 
Jason Webb in  London  at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  