-- 
Enbridge Second-Quarter Profit Rises on Gas-Pipeline Volumes

-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 
2011-08-05T21:02:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/enbridge-second-quarter-profit-rises-on-gas-pipeline-volumes-1-.html
Enbridge Inc. (ENB) , the largest
transporter of Canadian crude to the U.S., reported an 88
percent increase in second-quarter profit as it moved more
natural gas on its pipeline system.  Net income rose to C$259 million ($264 million), or 34
cents a share, from C$138 million, or 18 cents, a year earlier,
the Calgary-based company said in a statement today. Excluding
costs to settle shipper disputes as well as gains and losses
from contracts used to hedge against price and currency
fluctuations, per-share profit was 2 cents more than the average
of 12 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “Liquids pipelines was a little weaker than we were
looking for,”  Lanny Pendill , an analyst with  Edward Jones  in
 St. Louis , said in a telephone interview today. Pendill rates
the company a “buy” and doesn’t own shares. “That was offset
by stronger earnings from gas.”  Enbridge transported an average of 2.68 million barrels of
crude and petroleum liquids a day on its pipelines during the
second quarter, a decline of 9.2 percent from a year earlier.
Gas distribution rose 19 percent to 75 billion cubic feet.  Revenue rose 42 percent to C$4.98 billion in the quarter
from C$3.51 billion a year earlier. Profit climbed in the
quarter due to gains on derivatives contracts and higher
earnings in its gas-distribution and energy-services businesses,
the company said.  Enbridge fell 47 cents, or 1.6 percent, to C$29.72 at 4:17
p.m. on the Toronto Stock Exchange. The shares, which have
gained 5.6 percent this year, have five buy ratings and nine
holds from analysts.  Expanding Monarch  The company is considering expanding its proposed Monarch
oil pipeline with a segment to move crude from North Dakota’s
Bakken formation and  Canada ’s oil sands to the  Gulf Coast , Chief
Executive Officer Patrick Daniel said on an investor conference
call today.  The proposed Monarch North line would use a combination of
existing Enbridge infrastructure and new construction to carry
as much as 300,000 barrels a day from  Chicago  to an oil-storage
hub in Cushing, Oklahoma. It would offer shippers the ability to
deliver oil to  Minnesota , Chicago, Cushing and the Gulf Coast,
Daniel said.  “It’s that flexibility around those delivery options that
really holds the appeal,” he said.  A pipeline with the capability to move crude from Canada’s
oil sands to the Gulf Coast would compete with  TransCanada
Corp. (TRP) ’s $15 billion Keystone line. The company has been waiting
since 2008 for approval on a final leg of that system, known as
Keystone XL, from the U.S. State Department. Enbridge’s plan
wouldn’t require State Department approval because it doesn’t
cross an international border, Daniel said.  Enbridge delivers more than 2.2 million barrels of oil and
liquids a day on average, making it the largest conduit of crude
into the U.S., according to its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tina Davis at 
 tinadavis@bloomberg.net  