-- 
Eskom Ordered to Release BHP Electricity Price Information

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-08-05T12:34:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/eskom-is-told-by-court-to-release-bhp-smelter-power-price-information.html
Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd., the utility
that supplies about 95 percent of South Africa’s electricity,
was ordered by a court to release to a news organization details
of how power sold to  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  was priced.  “It is in the public interest” that the information about
the supplies to BHP aluminum smelters is released to  Naspers
Ltd. (NPN)  unit Media24, Judge Frans Kgomo said in his ruling in
Johannesburg’s South Gauteng High Court today. Eskom won’t,
appeal against the judgment, said spokeswoman Hilary Joffe.  State-owned Eskom in 2009 declined to give information
 Media24  requested under the Public Access Information Act after
the utility posted a record 9.75 billion rand ($1.4 billion)
loss. Discounted power sales to BHP have a “significant
impact” on the reliability and affordability of supplies to the
public, Media24 journalist Jan de Lange said in an affidavit
last year.  BHP’s aluminum smelters in  South Africa  and  Mozambique  are
capable of consuming as much as 2,150 megawatts of Eskom’s
power, equivalent to more than 5 percent of the utility’s
installed capacity.  “It’s only right that this information is in the public
domain,” Ryk van Niekerk, editor of  Sake24 , the business
section of Media24, said in an interview at the court.  Pricing Formula  The ruling requires Eskom to disclose the formula used to
price power sold to BHP’s Hillside and Mozambican smelters, the
parties who signed the contracts, and the period they are valid
for, Van Niekerk said.  BHP, which is a respondent in the case brought by Media24,
has argued that the power price information is commercially
sensitive. BHP will consider today’s ruling “with the view of
determining whether there are grounds for an appeal,” the
Melbourne-based company’s local unit said in an e-mailed
response to questions.  Eskom started a review of the contracts with BHP in 2009,
and two have been renegotiated. The utility has struggled to
fund a 500 billion rand expansion program to end a capacity
shortage that shut most of the country’s mines for five days in
2008.  De Lange and Media24 are the applicants in the case, while
BHP, Eskom, the Hillside smelter, a Mozambican power
distribution company and South  Africa ’s Minister of Justice and
Constitutional Development are the respondents. Naspers, based
in  Cape Town , is Africa’s biggest media company.  The case is number 10/10063.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  