-- 
MetLife Says 30 Jurisdictions Are Auditing Unpaid Benefits

-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-08-05T22:42:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/metlife-says-30-jurisdictions-auditing-firm-on-unpaid-benefits.html
MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life
insurer, said more than 30 U.S. jurisdictions are auditing its
practices in a review of whether the industry is holding
unclaimed funds owed to policyholders, beneficiaries or states.  The audits may lead to more payments to beneficiaries,
administrative penalties or changes in procedures,  New York- 
based MetLife said today in its quarterly filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  “The company is not currently able to estimate the
reasonably possible amount of any such additional payments or
the reasonably possible cost of any such changes in
procedures,” MetLife said. “It is possible that such costs may
be substantial.”  State regulators are intensifying a probe into unpaid
benefits after Florida Insurance Commissioner Kevin McCarty said
in May that insurers may be keeping at least $1 billion in
unclaimed funds. MetLife and No. 2  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU)  are
among nine firms subpoenaed in June as part of New York Attorney
General  Eric Schneiderman ’s probe, a person familiar with the
matter has said.  Prudential Probe  Prudential is being examined on behalf of 33 U.S.
jurisdictions for compliance with unclaimed property laws, the
 Newark , New Jersey-based insurer said today in its quarterly
filing.  Requiring insurers to be more proactive in identifying
unclaimed policies could result in additional payments of death
benefits and the return of abandoned funds to states. It will
also lead to changes in the company’s practices, which will
impact claim payments and reserves, according to the filing.  “It is possible that results of operations or the cash
flow of the company in a particular quarterly or annual period
could be materially affected,” the filing said. “Ultimate
payments in connection with these matters, after consideration
of applicable reserves and rights to indemnification, should not
have a material adverse effect.”  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , the insurer majority
owned by the U.S. Treasury Department, added $100 million to
reserves for death claims at its life insurance unit in the
second quarter, according to a regulatory filing yesterday. The
company has changed its claims process to use information,
including data from the  Social Security Administration , to
determine when insured people die.  “Our practices in that area are currently, and have been,
completely consistent with all the applicable legal requirements
and all of the historical industry standards,” Jay Wintrob,
chief executive officer of the SunAmerica life unit, said today
on a call with analysts.  AIG has received regulators’ inquiries into claims-
settlement practices, the New York-based company said in the
filing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 Bustherland5@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  