-- 
Europe’s Plan Won’t Cut Greek Debt: Allen, Eichengreen and Evans

-- B y   P e t e r   A l l e n ,   B a r r y   E i c h e n g r e e n   a n d   G a r y   E v a n s
-- 
2011-08-05T00:01:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/europe-s-plan-won-t-cut-greek-debt-allen-eichengreen-and-evans.html
Postmortems of last month’s European
Union summit meeting have now turned to why the Greek debt
rescue failed to restore investor confidence in the country’s
finances. Many reasons are advanced: the failure to communicate
clearly; the complexity of the plan; the inability to coordinate
with the  International Monetary Fund .  There’s a simpler explanation: The debt-reduction deal
failed because it didn’t reduce the debt.  Instead,  Greece gets  a reduction in  interest rates  and a
lengthening of maturities on its loan from the European
Financial Stability Facility. But that loan also has been
supersized, and the country has to pay back the additional
official debt.  The government in  Athens  also gets a 20 billion-euro ($28.7
billion) bond-buyback program funded by the EFSF. But again, the
country will have to repay the money used to finance the
buybacks, plus 3.5 percent interest.  All this is modestly helpful because the Greek government
has to pay more than 3.5 percent to fund itself on the market.
The European taxpayer has at least done something to reduce
Greece’s crushing debt load.  But the “contribution” the banks are required to make is a
different story. We are told that the financial institutions
holding Greek  government bonds  will have to write off some of
the debt. We are told by the bankers’ lobby, the  Institute of
International Finance , that the reduction in the net present
value of their bonds is 21 percent.  No Haircut  This number has nothing to do with the amount by which
Greece’s debt will be reduced. What some analysts have
mistakenly been calling a “haircut” is simply the discount
relative to par value at which the new bond options will trade
in the secondary market, assuming a Greek sovereign yield of 9
percent.  To correctly measure the service and reduction of debt,
these must be compared with the 5.02 percent average interest
rate that  Greece  currently pays on its bonds. When this is taken
into account, even the much-touted 20 percent principal
reduction on the discount bond option is much lower on a
present-value basis, because the coupon rates are higher on the
new bond than on the old bonds.  The 30-year discount-bond option, which would swap new debt
for existing obligations at 80 percent of face value, for
example, has a coupon starting at 6 percent, rising to 6.5
percent in year five and 6.8 percent in years 10 through 30.
Greece realizes only 22 basis points of interest savings in the
first five years and will have negative annual interest savings
for the next 25 years.  Small Discount  Even after taking into account that Greece pays back only
80 percent of the original principal in year 30, the present
value of debt falls only 1.78 percent under this option. This is
a far cry from the 20 percent discount applauded by many
analysts. And, to entice bondholder participation, Greece must
borrow an additional 26.10 percent of the original face value to
purchase the zero-coupon bonds’ principal collateral for the
discount security.  In the attached table we use  Institute of International
Finance  assumptions to show how the deal affects Greece’s
finances.  The deal helps to extend Greece’s bond maturities. Yet,
once it is concluded, the present value of the debt tendered
falls by only 6.78 percent, or 9.15 billion euros, even if one
accepts the surely over-optimistic assumption that 90 percent of
bondholders will participate. This is an expensive proposition
given that Greece must purchase 42 billion euros of zero-coupon
bonds to collateralize the principal payments.  Raw Deal  Obviously, this is a raw deal for Greece. It also is a bad
deal for the euro area, whose leaders again failed to contain
the crisis. And it is a bad deal for the European taxpayer, who
will shoulder all the sacrifices, while the banks make none.  How could things have gone so wrong?  One answer is that none of the participants involved -- the
EU, the French and German leaders, the Institute of
International Finance -- knew what they were doing. A 21 percent
reduction in net present value sounds impressive, but it has no
bearing on the amount by which the exchange will reduce Greece’s
debt. No one appreciated that 30-year zero-coupon bonds are much
more expensive in today’s low-interest-rate environment than
they were 20 years ago, in the days of the Brady Plan. No one
understood that the debt exchange effectively increased Greece’s
annual interest payments once the cost on the debt to purchase
the principal collateral was taken into account.  Hit to Lenders  It may be hard to believe that the experts could be so ill-
informed. The only other explanation is that the sole purpose of
the exercise was to mislead. The banks can claim that they are
taking a hit when in reality they can exchange bonds currently
trading at hefty discounts for debt whose market value will be
half in the form of AAA collateral. German parliamentarians can
be told that the private sector was forced to “participate” in
the Greek rescue when in fact, even after rescheduling
maturities, those lenders will still receive a large fraction of
their original interest payments.  This deal should be thrown out. In its place, the EU should
create a real debt exchange with real haircuts for the banks and
a significant reduction in Greece’s debt stock.  The good news is that there will be an opportunity to
change course. Greece’s debt is still unsustainable, and it will
have to be restructured again.  ( Barry Eichengreen  is professor of economics and political
science at the  University of California , Berkeley. Peter Allen
and Gary Evans are economists who worked on the Brady Plan
restructurings of emerging-market debt in the 1990s and served
as financial advisers to the government of  Poland  during its
debt restructuring. The opinions expressed are their own.)  To contact the writers of this article:
Barry Eichengreen at  eichengr@econ.berkeley.edu ;
Peter Allen at  peterallen@vom.com ;
Gary Evans at  gevans33@msn.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at    mberley@bloomberg.net . 