-- 
Europe Struggles to Tame Crisis as Spain, Italy Get Respite in Bond Market

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 
2011-08-05T14:35:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/europe-struggles-to-tame-crisis-as-ecb-bond-buying-fails-to-halt-contagion.html
European leaders hunted for solutions
to the debt crisis, helping  Italy  and Spain gain a respite from
the market turbulence after the resumption of the  European
Central Bank ’s bond-buying program.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy plan to speak by phone later today, their
offices said. The European Commission called for an expansion of
the  European Financial Stability Facility , the 440 billion-euro
($623 billion) rescue fund, earning a rebuke from  Germany .  “It’s important to constantly review if there is a need to
further reinforce the EFSF in terms of its size,” European
Union Economic and Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn said in a
Bloomberg Television interview in Brussels. German Economy
Minister Philipp Roesler rejected taking more measures.  Europe ’s government leaders were back in the spotlight
after a divided ECB restarted its bond-purchase program
yesterday following a four-month hiatus. The central bank
refused to extend the purchases to Italy and Spain, the two
countries at the center of the current turmoil.  “Would the ECB please get serious?”  Holger Schmieding ,
chief economist at Joh. Berenberg Gossler & Co. in  London , said
in an e-mailed note. Limiting the bond-buying to Ireland and
Portugal brings to mind “a fire brigade that responds to a
major emergency but then drives to the wrong place and refuses
to turn around and douse the real fire.”  Merkel-Sarkozy Call  World stock markets have lost more than $4.4 trillion since
July 26 as speculation mounts that the global economy faces a
new recession that would deepen Europe’s debt woes.  Merkel and Sarkozy, the leaders of the euro region’s two
largest economies, plan to address the crisis when they speak
today, a Chancellery aide said. The French leader also planned
to call Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero.  The commission is pressing European governments to quickly
enact a July 21 summit decision to empower the rescue fund to
buy bonds in the secondary market, offer precautionary credit
lines and lend to recapitalize banks.  Rehn called for country-by-country approval of the upgraded
bailout mechanism by early September. Policy makers need to be
“more disciplined” in communicating with markets, he said,
adding that European leaders were surprised by the bond selloff
in the wake of the summit.  “Markets have not reacted as we expected or hoped for to
the measures agreed by euro-area heads of state and
government,” Rehn told reporters. “The spread of bond-market
tensions across the euro area is, however, not justified by
economic and budgetary fundamentals.”  Bonds Rally  Spanish and Italian bonds rallied on speculation that
policy makers may take more action to arrest the crisis. Ten-
year yields dropped 22 basis points to 6.06 percent in  Spain  and
4 basis points to 6.16 percent in Italy.  The euro was up 0.8 percent at $1.4207 at 4:15 p.m. in
Brussels.  Over the opposition of the German central bank, the ECB
bought bonds of Ireland and Portugal yesterday, two countries
drawing on official aid. It did so again today, according to two
people with knowledge of the transactions. The ECB stopped short
of buying Italian bonds, and ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
said Italy has to show it is “ahead of the curve” in taming
its debt.  A clash over the size of the bailout fund flared between
European officials and Germany, the biggest underwriter of aid
packages to Greece, Ireland and  Portugal .  A call by  Jose Barroso , commission president, for a review
of “all elements” including the fund’s size was rejected today
by Germany’s Roesler.  ‘Frantic Ranting’  “A debate like this is not timely,” less than a month
after European leaders agreed to leave its size untouched,
Roesler told  Deutsche Presse-Agentur  in Oslo. His predecessor,
 Rainer Bruederle , now floor leader of Merkel’s Free Democratic
Party coalition partner, dismissed Barroso’s plea as “frantic
ranting,” he told Bild newspaper.  With a “huge amount of work” involved already, calling in
parliament early or “loading new proposals onto us is just not
going to fly,”  Norbert Barthle , budget policy spokesman for
Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc in parliament, said by phone.
“I’m not saying new proposals can’t be discussed at some point,
save one: eurobonds. Any mention of eurobonds from the German
point of view is taboo, damaging, undesired.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  