-- 
Europe Needs More to Quell Debt Crisis, Ireland’s Bruton Says

-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 
2011-08-05T07:52:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/europe-needs-more-to-quell-debt-crisis-ireland-s-bruton-says.html
Europe  may need extra tools to quell
the region’s debt crisis as it threatens to engulf  Spain  and
 Italy , Ireland’s Enterprise Minister Richard Bruton said.  The yield on Spain’s benchmark 10-year bond has risen 86
basis points to 6.34 percent in the past month, while the yield
on 10-year Italian bonds widened to euro-era record 6.4 percent.  “Most people recognize that Europe hasn’t reached an end
in terms of the development of the policy instruments to resolve
the wider economic crisis,” Bruton, 58, said in an interview in
his office in central Dublin on Aug. 3. Europe clearly “needs
to have a coherent fiscal strategy.”  Spanish and Italian benchmark bonds have fallen since the
euro-region leaders’ summit last month failed to convince
investors the debt crisis can be stemmed. European Commission
President Jose Barroso yesterday urged leaders to review “all
elements” including the size of the 440 billion-euro ($623
billion) European Financial Stability Facility and the 500
billion-euro European Stability Mechanism that will replace it
in mid-2013.  “This latest surge of uncertainty comes in something of a
hiatus of Europe having announced the addition of new military
hardware that it is planning to deploy and the deployment,”
Bruton, an Oxford University-trained economist, said. On the
EFSF fund, Bruton said “what the markets are perceiving is that
it is not big enough.”  The Irish government says it’s funded through to the end of
2013 after winning  International Monetary Fund  and European aid
last year.  The yield on 10-year Irish bonds has shrunk 3.74 percentage
points to 10.34 percent since hitting a euro-era record of 14.08
percent on July 18. The  European Central Bank  has been buying
Irish and Portuguese government bonds, according to three people
with knowledge of the transactions yesterday.  Luxury  “We have to some degree the luxury that we don’t have to
worry about what is happening in the bond markets today,” said
Bruton. “We do need to know what they will be like in a number
of years time.”  The Irish government has said it may seek to return to debt
markets in the second half of 2012, as the fiscal deficit
shrinks and the economy returns to growth. Irish gross domestic
product will expand by 0.8 percent this year and 2.1 percent in
2012, the country’s central bank forecast last month.  “We know our salvation is pursuing the agenda we have set
ourselves,” said Bruton, who last year lost a leadership
challenge to now Prime Minister  Enda Kenny . “The seeds of
recovery are beginning to sprout.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  