-- 
European Stocks Post Biggest Weekly Retreat Since November 2008; RBS Drops

-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 
2011-08-05T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/european-stocks-post-biggest-weekly-retreat-since-november-2008-rbs-drops.html
European stocks posted their biggest
weekly loss since November 2008, becoming the first major region
to enter a market correction, as concern escalated that the
U.S.’s economic recovery is stalling.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) 
led banks lower.  Veolia Environnement SA (VIE)  dropped 29 percent on
concern that the world’s largest water company will cut payouts
to shareholders following a first-half loss. Royal Dutch Shell
Plc,  Europe ’s largest oil company, paced losses in energy shares
as  oil prices  retreated.  The Stoxx 600 Europe Index tumbled 9.9 percent to 238.88
this past week, the gauge’s lowest level in 13 months. The
measure has declined 18 percent from this year’s high on Feb. 17
amid mounting speculation that Europe will fail to contain its
sovereign-debt crisis and that the economic recovery is
faltering in the U.S. The index this week extended losses from
this year’s peak to more than 10 percent, a retreat known as a
correction.  Moody’s Investors Service said the outlook for the U.S.
debt grade is negative after President  Barack Obama  on Aug. 2
signed into law a plan to lift the nation’s borrowing limit and
cut spending following months of wrangling between Republican
and Democrat lawmakers. Moody’s and Fitch Ratings affirmed their
AAA credit ratings for the U.S. while warning that downgrades
were possible if politicians fail to implement debt-reduction
measures and the economy weakens.  Spain,  Italy  Debt  “Fears of an extension of the debt crisis to Spain and
Italy have coupled with the U.S.’s own debt problem and, in the
last few days, the additional element of worsening of the
economic statistics,” said Karim Bertoni, who helps oversee $29
billion at Banque SYZ & Co. in Geneva. “If data continues to
slow down, then markets will be weak.”  The  VStoxx Index (V2X) , which measures the cost of protecting
against a decline in shares on the Euro Stoxx 50 Index, surged
42 percent this week to its highest level since June 2010.  National benchmark indexes retreated in all 18 western
European markets. France’s CAC 40 Index slid 11 percent, the
U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index dropped 9.8 percent, while Germany’s DAX
Index declined 13 percent.  A U.S. jobs report on Aug. 5 failed to allay concern that
the global economy is struggling. The report showed that the
 U.S. economy  added 117,000 jobs in July, more than the 85,000
average estimate of 88 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
The  unemployment rate  dropped to 9.1 percent as more Americans
left the  labor force . Economists had forecast a rate of 9.2
percent.  U.S. Manufacturing  Manufacturing in the world’s largest economy expanded in
July at the slowest pace since 2009, according to a report on
Aug. 1. The Institute for Supply Management’s U.S. factory index
fell to 50.9 from 55.3 in June. Economists had projected a drop
to 54.5, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey.
Figures greater than 50 signal expansion.  On Aug. 3, the Institute for Supply Management’s index of
non-manufacturing businesses, which covers about 90 percent of
the U.S. economy, dropped to 52.7 in July from 53.3 in June.
Economists had predicted a reading of 53.5, according to the
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  The  European Central Bank  left  interest rates  unchanged on
Aug. 4 as economic growth slows and the region’s debt crisis
spreads to Italy and  Spain . ECB officials kept the benchmark
rate at 1.5 percent. ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  signaled
at a press conference in  Frankfurt  that the central bank has
resumed bond purchases.  ‘Shocking’ Equity Selloff  The selloff in equities has been “really shocking” and it
shows disappointment among investors that central banks have
decided to intervene in markets rather than ease monetary
policy, said Trevor Greetham, director of  asset allocation  at
Fidelity International in  London .  “There is a slowdown in global growth going on in the
background,” Greetham said on Bloomberg TV on Aug. 5. “The
markets wanted the central banks to ease and what they are
getting is intervention.”  RBS, Britain’s biggest government-controlled bank, lost 21
percent. Intesa, Italy’s second-biggest lender, slid 19 percent.  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA declined 21 percent. France’s second-
largest bank said it may miss its 2012 earnings target after
second-quarter profit fell 31 percent because of a writedown on
Greek government debt.  Veolia, Pandora Tumble  Veolia sank 29 percent. The company said on Aug. 4 that it
swung to a net loss in the first half after writedowns on
operations in Italy, Morocco and the U.S. Veolia announced it
will pull out of at least 37 countries as it accelerates a
restructuring plan to restore profit.  Shell slid 14 percent. BP Plc, the region’s second-largest
oil company, slipped 11 percent. Crude oil for September
delivery tumbled 9.4 percent in  New York  this week. Oil and gas
shares lost 13 percent, for the third-largest decline of the 19
industry groups in the Stoxx 600.  Pandora A/S plunged 67 percent as the Danish maker of charm
bracelets reduced its forecast and replaced its chief executive
officer. The company said on Aug. 2 that CEO Mikkel Vendelin Olesen had left. The company, which sells silver bracelets for
$65 and charms to add to them for $30 each, plans to abandon the
price increases Olesen implemented to combat rising commodity
costs.  Inmarsat Shares Slump  Inmarsat Plc (ISAT) , the biggest provider of satellite services to
the maritime industry, tumbled 25 percent. Inmarsat cut its
projection for its core mobile satellite services business, or
MSS, as “near-term factors will constrain growth for longer
than previously anticipated,” the company said on Aug. 4. MSS
revenue fell 0.3 percent to $361.9 million in the first six
months. The company now expects “broadly flat” MSS revenue in
2011 compared with a previous forecast for growth of 2 percent
to 4 percent.  Basic-resource shares had the second-largest decline in the
Stoxx 600, dropping 15 percent, as the S&P GSCI index of 24
commodities retreated for eight days. BHP Billiton Ltd., the
world’s biggest mining company, slid 14 percent. Eramet SA, a
producer of nickel and manganese, slumped 21 percent.  Rio Tinto Group retreated 16 percent. The world’s second-
largest mining company reported first-half profit on Aug. 4 that
missed analysts’ estimates as costs and currency gains in
Australia and Canada hurt earnings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net . 