-- 
Leveraged-Loan Prices Have Biggest Drop in 15 Months on Weakening Economy

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   I d z e l i s
-- 
2011-08-05T13:49:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/leveraged-loan-prices-have-biggest-drop-in-15-months-on-weakening-economy.html
Leveraged-loan prices dropped this
week in the U.S. by the most since May 2010 amid signs that the
economy is weakening and the debt crisis in  Europe  is
escalating.  The Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 index
plunged 1.8 percent to 92.74 cents on the dollar, the lowest
price since Dec. 28, 2010. The measure, which tracks the 100
largest dollar-denominated first-lien leveraged loans, had its
biggest daily decline yesterday since Jan. 16, 2009.  Dynegy
Inc. (DYN) , the third-largest independent U.S. power producer, sold
$1.3 billion in loans for 98 cents on the dollar this week under
a refinancing to avoid default.  Prices of high-yield, high-risk loans fell amid a global
rout in equities, while yearly returns on the debt fell
yesterday to 0.36 percent, erasing gains since Jan. 3. The
decline comes amid speculation that the  Federal Reserve  will
initiate another stimulus program and as the European Central
Bank resumes bond purchases and makes cash available for banks
in order to stem the region’s debt crisis.  “Investors are nervously watching for the next event,”
said Mike Nitka, managing director and head of loan products for
 Cantor Fitzgerald  & Co. in  New York . “Whether it’s a contagion
from the events in southern Europe or further slowing of U.S.
expansion, folks are trying to figure out the perspective impact
on spreads and liquidity.”  Demand for leveraged loans, a type of high-risk, high-yield
bank debt rated less than Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and
BBB- by S&P, has declined as the cost of borrowing increases.  Higher Spreads  U.S. floating-rate funds, which buy bank loans, had $77
million of outflows during the week ended July 27, compared with
$102.8 million of inflows for the week ending July 20, according
to data from EPFR Global.  The spread over benchmark lending rates on newly issued
term B loans climbed to an average 494.6 basis points as of Aug.
4, the highest since December, according to S&P Leveraged
Commentary & Data. The margin on newly issued term A loans
increased to 428.9, the highest since January.  A so-called term loan B is sold mainly to non-bank lenders
such as collateralized loan obligations, bank loan mutual funds
and  hedge funds . A term loan A is sold mainly to banks.  Dynegy’s deal includes $600 million of term loans for the
Houston-based company’s coal unit and a $1.1 billion loan for
its natural gas unit, each paying 7.75 percentage points more
than the London interbank offered rate, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Stock Slump  Stocks posted their worst slump since February 2009 with
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index tumbling 4.8 percent to 1,200.07
yesterday. Two-year Treasury yields plunged to a record low.  Employers added more jobs than forecast in July, the
jobless rate fell and wages climbed, Labor Department data
showed today in  Washington , easing concern the  U.S. economy  is
grinding to a halt. Stocks rallied and Treasuries fell.  Consumer confidence  in the U.S. declined last week to the
lowest level in more than two months after the economy almost
stalled in the second quarter. President  Barack Obama  on Aug. 2
signed legislation to lift the government’s $14.3 trillion debt
ceiling after lawmakers haggled over a plan to do so or risk a
default by the world’s biggest economy.  “Our government has limited fiscal discipline and an
unlimited desire to debate,” Cantor Fitzgerald’s Nitka said.
“The current resolution, while an effective stop-gap, doesn’t
solve the structural problems.”  Congress voted to raise the debt ceiling by at least $2.1
trillion and slash spending by $2.4 trillion. Anything less than
$4 trillion in cuts could jeopardize the nation’s credit rating,
S&P said in a July 14 statement.  ‘Butterfly Effect’  European Central Bank  President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
yesterday that the ECB is offering euro-area banks as much money
as needed for six months to stem the financial crisis, as
concerns intensify that Italy and  Spain  would follow  Greece  in
seeking a bailout.  “It’s the butterfly effect -- small cracks can eventually
lead to big moves,” Nitka said. “A big move in one asset class
can spill over to another and, in times of high volatility and
stress, you can see typically non-correlated assets start to
move together, usually in the direction that we don’t want them
to go.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Idzelis in New York at 
 cidzelis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  