-- 
Alabama Official Who Took Sewer Bribes Loses Appeal as Bankruptcy Looms

-- B y   D a v i d   B e a s l e y   a n d   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 
2011-08-05T18:42:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/ex-alabama-county-city-official-langford-loses-appeal-in-bribery-case.html
Larry P. Langford, a former
Birmingham,  Alabama , mayor and Jefferson County Commission
president serving a prison term for bribery, lost an appeal of
his convictions.  The decision was posted today by the federal appeals court
in Atlanta.  Langford, 63, is serving a 15-year prison term for taking
bribes in connection with the refinancing of sewer debt when he
headed the county commission. He was removed as mayor when he
was convicted in 2009.  Jurors found Langford solicited cash, loan payoffs and
designer suits from William B. Blount, former head of a
securities firm in Montgomery, Alabama, and Albert LaPierre, a
consultant, in return for bringing Blount into a sewer-system
refinancing.  “The evidence of Langford’s guilt in accepting many bribes
-- including testimony by Blount, corroborated by extensive
documentation, that he paid Langford $240,000 in cash, clothing
and jewelry so that Blount’s investment-banking firm would
receive millions of dollars’ worth of fees from financial
transactions in Jefferson County -- was overwhelming,” the
appeals court said in its opinion.  Michael Rasmussen, an attorney for Langford, declined to
comment on the ruling, saying he hadn’t yet read it.  Blount and LaPierre pleaded guilty and testified against
Langford.  Bond Default  Jefferson County, with its seat in Birmingham, defaulted on
sewer bonds in 2008 after the financial crisis pushed up the
cost of the floating-rate debt and triggered an early repayment
clause it couldn’t afford.  It is negotiating with creditors to avert what would be the
largest municipal bankruptcy in U.S. history.  Criminal activity plagued the construction and financing of
the sewer system.  Four county commissioners, six former county employees,
several contractors and firms that did business with the
county’s environmental services department and two local
investment bankers have been convicted of federal bribery and
conspiracy charges, according to a June report by a court-
appointed receiver managing the system.  Criminality, corruption and incompetence at the county
raised costs and diminished its effectiveness in complying with
a federal consent decree to eliminate discharge of raw sewage
into the Black Warrior and Cahaba River Basins, the receiver
said.  The case is U.S. v. Langford, 7:08-cr-00245, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham). The appeal is
U.S. v. Langford, 10-11076,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the 11th
Circuit (Atlanta).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Beasley in Atlanta
t ;  dbeasley4@yahoo.com ;
Martin Z. Braun in  New York 
at   mbraun6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 