-- 
Ezekiel Emanuel Tapped to Lead Penn Medical Ethics Department

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 
2011-08-05T22:11:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/ezekiel-emanuel-tapped-to-lead-penn-medical-ethics-department.html
Ezekiel Emanuel, the former White
House health-policy adviser who is the older brother of Chicago
Mayor  Rahm Emanuel , agreed to run an ethics department at the
 University of Pennsylvania ’s Perelman School of Medicine.  Emanuel will start Sept. 1 as chair of the newly created
Department of Medical Ethics & Health Policy, the Philadelphia-
based school said today in an e-mailed statement. He was also
named vice provost for global initiatives and the Diane v.S.
Levy and Robert M. Levy University Professor.  “What we want to do is broaden the understanding of
medical ethics to encompass health policy and broaden the
understanding of health policy to encompass institutional and
individual ethics,” Penn President  Amy Gutmann  said in an
interview. “We hope to graduate doctors who have a truly deep
appreciation of the relevance of their work to health-care
policy and vice versa.”  A bioethicist with a medical degree and doctorate in
political philosophy from  Harvard University , Emanuel will draw
from experience working on last year’s overhaul of U.S. health-
care laws, on ethics at the National Institutes of Health and on
First Lady Michelle Obama’s initiative to combat childhood
obesity. He said he wants to use his new job partly to promote
the benefits of the 2010 Patient Protection and Affordable Care
Act that sought to ensure more Americans have health insurance.  “I want to explain to the business community why the
Affordable Care Act is good for them,” Emanuel said in an
interview. “I think health-care reform is critical to the
business community for their goal of realizing cost control and
I don’t think they understand that.”  Clinical Research  Emanuel was special adviser for health policy to the
director of the White House Office of Management and Budget from
February 2009 to January 2011.  Emanuel previously created and chaired the bioethics
department at the NIH’s Clinical Center in Bethesda,  Maryland ,
which acts as a hospital for patients enrolled in research
studies, according to its website. Emanuel studied issues there
such as informed consent and the risks of clinical research, he
said in the interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jonathan Kaufman  at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 