-- 
Family Bank of Kenya Shareholders Approve Stock Listing, Set for October

-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 
2011-08-05T10:47:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/family-bank-of-kenya-shareholders-approve-stock-listing-set-for-october.html
Family Bank Ltd. , a Kenyan lender,
said shareholders approved the listing of the company’s stock on
the nation’s bourse amid plans to expand in the region.  The lender, which has more than one million customers,
plans to start trading its shares on the  Nairobi Stock Exchange 
by October, subject to regulatory approval, Chief Executive
Officer Peter Munyiri told reporters today in Nairobi, the
capital.  The listing “creates an avenue for us to tap into other
sources of capital,” Munyiri said. “We have a robust expansion
plan and we believe the listing will make it much easier for us
to obtain funding.”  The Kenyan bourse, sub-Saharan  Africa ’s worst performer
this year, is targeting five listings this year, Chief Executive
Officer Peter Mwangi said on April 1. CFC Insurance Holding
Ltd., CFC Stanbic Holding Ltd.’s insurance unit, started trading
on April 21, making it Kenya’s first listing in 28 months.
TransCentury Ltd., a Kenyan investor in infrastructure projects,
listed on July 14.  Family Bank plans to open a branch in  South Sudan  next year
and is conducting a feasibility study to expand into a second
country, Munyiri said, without providing detail.  AfricInvest Fund , a Fidelity Capital Partners Ltd. fund
that is based in  Mauritius , bought a stake in the lender,
boosting its capital to 3 billion shillings ($32 million),
Family Chairman Titus Muya said Oct. 19, without providing the
previous level of capital or the size of the fund’s holding in
the bank.  Family Bank, which started in 1984 and has 7,000
shareholders, upgraded its status to a commercial bank from a
building society in May 2007.  British American Investment Co., a Kenyan financial-
services company, will close its initial public offering today.
Deacons Kenya Ltd., a Kenyan clothing retailer, plans to start
trading its shares on the nation’s bourse “early next year,”
Chairman Peter Njoka said on June 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  