-- 
Forest Labs CEO Won’t Be Barred on U.S. Government Contracts, Company Says

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 
2011-08-06T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/forest-labs-says-regulators-considered-u-s-business-ban-on-8-executives.html
Forest Laboratories Inc. (FRX) ’s top
executive won’t be barred from doing business with federal
health-care programs, company officials said.  U.S. Department of Health and Human Services officials
notified New York-based Forest yesterday they had given up
efforts to ban Howard Solomon, the company’s chief executive
officer, from future dealings with the Medicare and Medicaid
programs, Forest officials said in a statement.  “We are gratified by the HHS’s determination that an
exclusion of Mr. Solomon is unwarranted,” Kenneth Goodman, a
company director, said in the statement.  A judge yesterday unsealed court filings showing regulators
considered starting an exclusion effort against eight of the
drugmaker’s executives over illegal sales of one of the
company’s medicines.  Billionaire investor  Carl Icahn , who is backing four
candidates for seats on Forest’s board, sued in state court in
Delaware to have the files made public to provide ammunition for
his proxy fight. Entities controlled by Icahn own about
7 percent of Forest’s shares.  Susan Gordon , an Icahn spokeswoman, said he wasn’t
available for comment on the government’s decision to drop the
exclusion effort against Solomon.  Deliberations Off-Limits  U.S. officials refused to “discuss deliberation of
potential exclusion of specific persons or companies,” Donald
White, an HHS spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  Federal regulators notified Forest in April they had
targeted Solomon, 83, for exclusion. The action follows the
drugmaker’s guilty plea last year to charges it distributed its
thyroid drug Levothroid before the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration approved it.  Forest officials agreed to pay the $313 million to resolve
civil and criminal claims over the unauthorized Levothroid
sales. The company also makes the antidepressant Lexapro and
Alzheimer’s drug Namenda.  Officials of Icahn’s High River LP unit sued in state court
in Wilmington,  Delaware , in June, seeking access to information
about the government’s bid to exclude Solomon.  Forest’s directors were advised at an April meeting the
government sought to exclude Solomon over the illegal sales of
the thyroid drug, the company said in a filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission yesterday.  Guilty Plea  In their statement yesterday, regulators cited the guilty
plea as the basis for their effort to have Solomon excluded. HHS
ended its regulatory action after reviewing information provided
by the company’s lawyers, Forest officials said in a release.
They included a letter from the agency along with the statement.  “Based on a review of the information in our file and
consideration of the information that your attorneys provided to
us, we have decided to close this case,” Peter Clark, an HHS
official, said in the letter. “We anticipate no further action
related to this matter.”  Forest Labs fell $1.08, or 3.1 percent, to $33.72 in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday. The shares have
risen more than 5 percent this year.  The case is High River Limited Partnership v. Forest
Laboratories Inc., CA6614, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  