-- 
Ex-Mariner Energy Director Admits Passing Apache Corp. Merger Tip to Son

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-08-05T18:31:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/former-mariner-energy-director-admits-to-passing-apache-merger-tip-to-son.html
A former  Mariner Energy Inc. (ME)  director
pleaded guilty to passing inside information about the company’s
planned acquisition by  Apache Corp. (APA)  to his son.  H. Clayton Peterson, 65, of Denver, a retired former Arthur
Andersen partner who also serves on the boards of Re/Max
International Inc. and Lone Pine Resources Inc., pleaded guilty
to conspiracy and  securities fraud  today in  Manhattan  federal
court. His son, Drew, 35, a financial adviser from Denver, also
pleaded guilty to the same charges today.  Clayton Peterson, who was appointed to Mariner’s board in
March 2006, said he passed information about the planned
transaction in April 2010 to his son. Drew Peterson said he
bought shares of Mariner stock based on the tip and passed on
the information to another unidentified person who also traded
on it.  “I knew that my actions were wrong and I deeply regret my
conduct,” Clayton Peterson told U.S. District Judge Robert Patterson. “It has ruined my life and my son’s life and I
apologize.”  Apache, the largest U.S. independent oil and natural-gas
producer by market value, on April 15, 2010, announced that it
had agreed to buy Houston-based Mariner Energy for in a deal
valued at the time at $2.7 billion in cash and stock to boost
production and reserves in deep waters off the  Gulf of Mexico .
The purchase was completed on Nov. 10.  SEC Lawsuits  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission today sued
both Petersons in federal court in Manhattan, claiming that Drew
Peterson, his relatives, friends and clients made more than
$5.2 million from trading on the information. Of that amount,
$5 million was made by the portfolio manager of an unidentified
Denver hedge fund.  Both Petersons face as much as 20 years in prison for
securities fraud and five years for conspiracy and were ordered
released on $500,000 personal recognizance bonds.  “Clayton Peterson has accepted responsibility for his
conduct in this matter, which was an aberration from his
otherwise long and distinguished career,” Clayton Peterson’s
attorney, Steven Glaser, said in a statement. “Mr. Peterson
looks forward to putting this chapter of his life behind him.”  According to the SEC, Clayton Peterson took part in a
directors’ conference call on April 7, 2010, in which Apache’s
offer to buy Mariner was discussed.  He then called Drew Peterson, telling him to buy shares of
Mariner stock for his sister, and in the days that followed,
Drew Peterson bought more stock for his sister, for himself and
for other family and friends, according to the SEC. Apache and
Mariner announced the transaction April 15, causing Mariner’s
share price to rise 42 percent, the SEC said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch  in  New York  at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 