-- 
Foster’s Declines Below SABMiller’s Offer Price for First Time Since Bid

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-08-05T07:05:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/foster-s-declines-below-sabmiller-s-offer-price-for-first-time-since-bid.html
Foster’s Group Ltd. (FGL)  fell below
 SABMiller Plc (SAB) ’s takeover offer in Sydney for the first time
since rejecting the A$9.5 billion ($9.9 billion) bid as too low.  The stock fell 4 percent, the most since Aug. 24, 2010, to
A$4.79 at the 4:10 p.m. close of trading. Before today, Foster’s
had not traded below the A$4.90 a share bid from London-based
SABMiller since it rejected the cash offer on June 21.  The Foster’s decline comes as Australian stocks plunged the
most since Jan. 2009 amid concern the global economic recovery
may stall, setting off a worldwide equities rout. The Melbourne-
based company has spurned SABMiller’s attempts to “seek
engagement” since making the bid, instead focusing on
stabilizing its 50 percent share of the domestic beer market
before  reporting  full-year earnings on Aug. 23.  “The market believes that we won’t hear anything from
SABMiller until Foster’s reports, which is probably right,”
said  Theo Maas , who helps manage about $5.4 billion at Arnhem
Investment Management Pty. in Sydney.  Index Drops  Australia ’s benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index fell 4 percent with
only two stocks advancing. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index tumbled 4
percent, set for its largest weekly decline since October 2008.  “It seems like it’s falling in line with market,” said
 Chris Weston , an institutional dealer at IG Markets in Melbourne.  Foster’s Chief Executive Officer  John Pollaers  on July 29
said he wouldn’t rule out talks with SABMiller or other bidders.
Still, he said the A$4.90 offer “was just so far away from
reality, it wasn’t worth engaging.”  Pollaers is concentrating on stemming market-share losses
and cutting production costs to free up cash and boost promotion
of brands. He’s also developing new brews to win back consumers
who switched to sweeter pre-mixed drinks and craft beers.  Australia’s biggest brewer said July 19 it may buy back
shares or boost dividends after winning a dispute with the
Australian Commissioner of Taxation that will see it get about
A$390 million in cash refunds and interest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in  Melbourne  
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net  