-- 
France Telecom Swiss Unit Sale Said to Lure Apax, EQT, Liberty

-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-08-05T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/france-telecom-said-to-get-interest-in-swiss-unit-from-apax-eqt-liberty.html
Apax Partners LLP, EQT Partners and
cable operator  Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA)  are among companies
considering bids for  France Telecom SA (FTE) ’s Swiss unit in a sale
that may fetch 2 billion euros ($2.8 billion), said three people
familiar with the matter.  The sale process probably will begin at the end of this
month, said two of the people, who declined to be identified as
talks are private. The Paris-based company announced plans to
sell the business last month, following the 2010 collapse of a
proposal to merge the unit with a rival.  Chief Executive Officer Stephane Richard is looking to shed
European assets to focus on expanding in the Middle East and
 Africa , where sales are growing at almost 10 times the pace of
some European markets.  France Telecom , which has made
acquisitions in Iraq and Morocco in the past year, last month
disclosed talks to acquire an operator in the Democratic
Republic of the Congo.  Beatrice Mandine, a spokeswoman for France Telecom,
declined to comment. Representatives of London-based private-
equity firm Apax and Liberty Global, controlled by  John Malone ,
also declined to comment. EQT, the private equity firm partly
owned by Sweden’s Wallenberg family, didn’t return a call
seeking comment.  France Telecom, the nation’s largest telephone company,
generated more than 45 billion euros in revenue last year, with
almost half in its home nation. Its shares fell 1.1 percent to
13.46 euros in Paris trading yesterday, bringing the decline to
14 percent since the beginning of the year.  Market Saturation  Market saturation has prompted wireless operators to look
to  developing countries  for growth, with some European nations
boasting more mobile-phone connections than people. About 60
percent of France Telecom’s revenue came from the wireless
business in 2010.  Swiss antitrust regulators last year thwarted the company’s
plan to merge the Swiss unit with competitor Sunrise, then owned
by Denmark’s TDC A/S and later purchased by CVC Capital Partners
Ltd, a British private-equity firm. The deal would have left the
country of about 8 million residents with two mobile operators:
the merged entity and state-backed  Swisscom AG. (SCMN)   France Telecom on July 28 reported a 2.2 percent decline in
first-half profit excluding some items, hurt by increasing costs
in its home market. Sales in Africa and the  Middle East , where
it has operations in countries including Cameroon,  Kenya , and
Tunisia, climbed 7.8 percent, compared with a gain of 0.8
percent in its smaller European markets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  