-- 
Friendly Fires, McQueen, Frogs, BMW Guggenheim Lab: N.Y. Weekend

-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 
2011-08-06T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/friendly-fires-mcqueen-lethal-frogs-bmw-guggenheim-lab-n-y-weekend.html
Spend a romantic evening with Joshua
Bell as he performs Max Bruch’s impassioned First Violin
Concerto.  Part of this year’s Mostly Mozart Festival, the concert
begins with an orchestral dance suite by Bach and ends with
Mozart’s Symphony No. 40. Hot young Spanish conductor Pablo-
Heras-Casado conducts.  Get to  Avery Fisher Hall  by 7 p.m. to hear the Ariel
Quartet play the second of Mozart’s “Haydn” works in a pre-
concert recital.  Lincoln Center , 70 Lincoln Center Plaza. Information: +1-
212-721-6500;  http://mostlymozart.org .  Saturday  Characterized by bulging eyes, a squat body and powerful
legs, the frog has colonized the entire globe, aside from
Antarctica.  Get up close and personal at the  American Museum of Natural
History ’s exhibition, “Frogs: A Chorus of Colors.”  Don’t miss the dazzling poison frogs, whose bright blue,
green, yellow and black colors signal “I’m toxic” to
predators. The gold one, “terribilis,” contains enough poison
to kill 20,000 mice or 10 people, and is likely the most lethal
animal on earth.  While you’re there, check out “Tornado Alley” showing at
the museum’s IMAX theater. Twisters can reach speeds of 300 mph
and stretch more than 2 miles across, so it takes a big screen
to do them justice.  “Frogs” runs through Jan. 8. Central Park West at 79th
St. Information: +1-212-769-5100;  http://www.amnh.org .  Saturday Afternoon  Head down to the BMW Guggenheim Lab, a pop-up space in the
East Village designed to get you thinking about the future of
city life.  Play “Urbanology,” an interactive group game, and see how
your decisions shape the landscape, or collect city noises and
learn to remix them into entertaining audio tracks.  Designed by the Tokyo architecture firm Atelier Bow-Wow,
the Lab will host more than 100 different events on the theme of
“Confronting Comfort.”  Argue over a cup of espresso at the locavore organic cafe,
operated by Brooklyn-based restaurant Roberta’s.  Open 10 a.m. through 10 p.m. at Houston St. and 2nd Ave.
Information:  http://bmwguggenheimlab.org .  Saturday Night  In need of uplift? Ailey II is presenting “Revelations,”
the gorgeous work now celebrating its 50th anniversary.  It’s a journey through pain and elation, told in 3
sections, “Pilgrim of Sorrow,” “Take Me to the Water” and
“Move, Members, Move,” based on Alvin Ailey’s memories of his
Texas childhood during the Great Depression.  Three other dances are on the program, including a new
ballet from Carlos dos Santos.  Doors open at 7 p.m., performance at 8 p.m. Prospect Park
Bandshell, as part of the Celebrate Brooklyn! Festival. Prospect
Park West and 9th St. Information:  http://www.prospectpark.org .  Sunday  Today is your very last chance to see the mega-hit
exhibition “ Alexander McQueen : Savage Beauty” at the
 Metropolitan Museum  of Art.  On view are 100 ensembles and 70 accessories from the late
bad-boy designer’s 19-year career, everything from the notorious
“bumster” pants to the 3-point origami frock coat.  You’ll see for yourself why Lady Gaga is such a big fan of
his fashion.  To accommodate the expected crowds, the museum will stay
open until midnight. Incroyable!  Slip into the little show devoted to Frans Hals for quieter
enjoyment.  His lively paintings are not above a little troublemaking:
“Merrymakers at Shrovetide” depicts two comic actors, Pickled
Herring and John Sausage, surrounded by bawdy allusions to
sexuality.  In the center is the queen for the day: a blond boy in
blingy drag McQueen would have approved.  Hals runs until Oct. 11. Fifth Ave. at 82nd St.
Information: +1-212-535-7710;  http://www.metmuseum.org .  Sunday Afternoon  British dance-funk trio Friendly Fires plays Central Park’s
Summerstage.  Blending a constellation of percussion, fast-moving
melodies and lead singer Ed MacFarlane’s keening vocals, the
group can easily induce euphoric hip-shaking.  Ed will give you a run for your money since he’s known to
leap into the audience and cavort with his fans.  Rumsey Field, Central Park at 3 p.m. Enter at 69th St. and
Fifth Ave. Information: +1-212-360-2777;
 http://www.summerstage.org .  Sunday Evening  “Rent” is back off-Broadway. The musical, a raucous
updating of Puccini’s “La Boheme” by Jonathan Larson, tells
the story of East Village artists and hipsters trying to make it
while coping with the AIDS epidemic.  The original director, Michael Greif, is back at the helm
with a new young cast.  In previews at New World Stages, 240 W. 50th St. for an
Aug. 11 opening. Information:  http://www.siteforrent.com/   (With assistance from Jacob Henkoff. Zinta Lundborg is an
editor for Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News.
The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 