-- 
Gasoline Advances on Jobs Report, European Debt Optimism

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-08-05T20:43:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/gasoline-advances-as-july-u-s-jobs-report-exceeds-estimates.html
Gasoline rose for the first time in
eight days after U.S. payrolls increased more than expected in
July and on optimism that efforts to contain the European debt
crisis will succeed.  Futures gained as the Labor Department reported that
payrolls added 117,000 workers. Gasoline followed Brent crude in
London higher as the  European Central Bank  bought Portuguese and
Irish  government bonds  for the second straight day. Before
today, futures lost 13 percent in seven days on concern the U.S.
and European economies were weakening.  “We were looking for a really dismal jobs report but this
kind of surprised the market, despite the small victory,” said
 Phil Flynn , vice president of research at PFGBest in Chicago.
“But the numbers aren’t nearly strong enough. I don’t think
this correction is over.”  Gasoline for September delivery rose 6.8 cents, or 2.5
percent, to settle at $2.8052 a gallon on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Futures lost 9.9 percent this week, the
largest decline in three months.  Prices are down 19 percent since settling at $3.4648 on
April 29, the highest level this year, putting the commodity in
a so-called correction mode.  “We’re still correcting the bull move and we’ve now
started a new thrust lower,” said  Peter Beutel , president of
trading advisory company Cameron Hanover Inc. in  New Canaan ,
Connecticut.  Unemployment Report  The jobless rate dropped to 9.1 percent while average
hourly earnings climbed 0.4 percent. The  unemployment rate  was
forecast to hold at 9.2 percent, according to the median
estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Futures sank 6.6 percent yesterday as concern that the U.S.
and global economies may tumble back into a recession ignited a
stampede from equities and commodities and a rush to the dollar
as a haven.  The European Central Bank resumed its bond-buying program
after a four-month hiatus. The central bank refused to extend
the purchases to Italy and Spain, the two countries at the
center of the current turmoil.  Futures gained as  Brent crude  oil rose for the first time
in four days, lowering production costs of refiners in Europe
and on the U.S. East Coast that process oil priced versus the
European benchmark. Brent for September delivery rose $2.12, or
2 percent, to $109.37 on the ICE Futures Europe exchange.  “It went up with Brent, hopeful that the ECB was also
going to be buying bonds from Italy and Spain,” said  Andy
Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, fell 0.3
cent to $3.70 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA data.  Heating oil for September delivery advanced 4.78 cents, or
1.7 percent, to settle at $2.9417 a gallon on the exchange. The
front-month contract fell 5 percent this week, the largest
decline in six weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J. Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  