-- 
Spain Paying Less to Borrow Than Italy For First Time In More Than a Year

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-08-05T15:35:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/german-10-year-bunds-advance-11th-day-on-debt-crisis-italian-bonds-slump.html
Spanish borrowing costs fell below
those of  Italy  for the first time since May 2010 on speculation
the Iberian nation’s lighter debt load makes it more able to
withstand contagion from the region’s fiscal crisis.  Spain’s 10-year bonds rallied, with the yield tumbling 25
basis points to 6.04 percent at 4:18 p.m. in London. Ten-year
yields from Italy, which has the region’s biggest bond market,
fell eight basis points to 6.11 percent. Spanish bonds yielded
as much as 81 basis points more than their Italian counterparts
as recently as June 16.  “The focus is very much on Italy at the moment,” said
 Orlando Green , a fixed-income strategist at Credit Agricole
Corporate & Investment Bank in London. “Sentiment has shifted
more toward the overall debt burden of Italy and the idea they
are not going to be able to handle their debt. That’s why you’re
seeing this flip.”  Irish and Portuguese government bonds also advanced after
the  European Central Bank  bought the nations’ debt for the
second straight day. German bonds fell, after surging yesterday
on demand for the safest assets, before French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  holds talks with his German and Spanish counterparts.
European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said the EU’s main bailout mechanism’s lending capacity
should be reinforced.  Reports today showed Italy’s gross domestic product rose
0.3 percent in the second quarter, up from a 0.1 percent pace in
the first three months of the year, while Spain’s GDP expanded
0.2 percent in the second quarter, down from 0.3 percent in the
previous period.  Leaders’ Talks  Italy is forecast to have a debt-to-GDP ratio of 120
percent this year, the second-highest level in the euro region,
compared with 68.1 percent for  Spain , according to a May 13
European Commission forecast.  Italy’s higher debt burden “magnifies the funding cost
increase” as rates paid at bond auctions climb,  Michael Leister , a fixed-income strategist at WestLB AG in London, wrote
in a report yesterday. “Spanish government bonds will continue
to prove to be the better choice than Italian bonds,” he wrote.  Spanish and Italian 10-year bonds recovered today after
yields this week touched the highest since before the euro was
introduced in 1999, hurt by concern policy makers weren’t doing
enough to prevent the crisis from spreading. A resumption of ECB
debt purchases yesterday has still failed to reassure investors
that officials in the region have a solution to the crisis.  Sarkozy, Zapatero, Merkel  Sarkozy was scheduled to talk by telephone with Spanish
Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero and German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  today. Markets haven’t reacted as
European leaders had hoped to a second Greek rescue, agreed on
last month, the EU’s Rehn told reporters in Brussels today. He
said separately that the European Commission will present a
report on the feasibility of euro bonds after September.  Moves today “suggest investors may be a bit more cautious
that they could pull a rabbit out of the hat,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-income strategist at RIA Capital Markets
Ltd. in Edinburgh. “There are some emergency meetings going on
and the market is taking a pause for breath, just in case some
new policy is announced.”  The yield on 10-year German bunds was five basis points
higher at 2.35 percent. It earlier sank eight basis points to
2.23 percent, the lowest since October.  The ECB bought Portuguese and Irish  government bonds  for
the second straight day, according to two people with knowledge
of the transactions.  ECB Purchases  The ECB bought large sizes of Irish securities, said one of
the people, who declined to be identified because the trades are
confidential. A Frankfurt-based central-bank spokesman, who
asked not to be identified, declined to comment. Purchases began
yesterday following an 18-week hiatus.  The yield on Irish two-year notes fell 55 basis points to
13.56 percent and the rate on similar-maturity Portuguese
securities dropped 129 basis points to 13.51 percent.  The rate at which European banks say they see each other
lending in euros for three months fell almost four basis points,
the most since June 20090, to 1.564 percent today, according to
the European Banking Federation. The ECB said yesterday it will
lend banks as much money as they need for six months and extend
its existing liquidity measures through the end of the year.  German bonds handed investors a 4.6 percent return this
year, compared with 6.3 percent for Treasuries, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Italian bonds have lost 5.1
percent, the indexes show. Spanish bonds lost 1.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Dobson in  London  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  