-- 
German Industrial Output Unexpectedly Fell on Construction

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-08-05T10:36:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/german-industrial-output-unexpectedly-fell-in-june-as-construction-slowed.html
German industrial production
unexpectedly decreased in June as construction activity waned
and investment goods output dropped.  Production declined 1.1 percent from May, when it rose a
revised 0.9 percent, the Economy Ministry in Berlin said today.
Economists had forecast a gain of 0.1 percent, the median of 26
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey showed. In the year, output
rose 6.7 percent when adjusted for working days.  German business confidence fell more than economists
forecast in July and investor sentiment dropped to a 2 1/2 year
low as the euro area’s worsening debt crisis clouded growth
prospects. Still, the Bundesbank said on July 18 the outlook
remains “favorable” and Porsche AG, the German sports-car
maker that’s merging with  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , said on Aug. 1 that
first-half operating profit surged 59 percent.  Today’s data “are a negative surprise but no reason to
panic,” said  Mario Gruppe , an economist at NordLB in Hanover,
Germany. “The growth dynamic is slowing but the economy will
certainly continue to expand at a robust pace for the remainder
of the year.”  Europe’s largest economy may grow 3.1 percent this year and
1.8 percent in 2012, the Frankfurt-based Bundesbank predicts.  Production of investment goods decreased 2 percent from May
and output of consumer goods fell 1 percent, today’s report
showed. Construction output slumped 4.5 percent, while basic-
goods production increased 0.3 percent.  ‘Solid Expansion’  Production was “significantly damped” by the number of
holidays in June, the ministry said. “The output trend is still
tilted to the upside,” indicating “solid expansion” in coming
months, it said.  Factory orders unexpectedly rose for a third month in June,
boosted by investment goods such as machinery, the ministry said
yesterday. At the same time, manufacturing growth slowed from
 Europe  to the U.S. and  China  last month, adding to signs that
the global recovery is faltering.  While there are “a number of risks” such as the fiscal
crisis and volatile commodity prices “it’s clear that the
development of the manufacturing industries remains robust,”
 Peter Loescher , chief executive officer at  Siemens AG (SIE) , Europe’s
biggest engineering company, said last month. “Demand for
industrial goods has also most recently increased.”  Aid Package  European leaders on July 21 announced 159 billion euros
($225 billion) of aid for Greece in their latest attempt to stem
a 21-month debt crisis that is threatening to engulf Spain and
Italy. The  European Central Bank , which ceased buying bonds four
months ago, was yesterday forced back into action after
governments failed to convince investors that the package of new
measures will prevent the crisis from spreading.  Italian industrial production also unexpectedly declined in
June as output of  consumer goods  slipped, and Spanish industrial
output dropped after stalling in the previous month. Spain’s
economic growth slowed in the second quarter, adding to the
government’s difficulties as it struggles with soaring borrowing
costs and the euro region’s highest unemployment rate.  “The development of the German economy is by no means
worrisome,” said  Christian Schulz , an economist at Joh.
Berenberg Gossler & Co. in  London . “However, enormous risks
remain, in particular due to the sovereign-debt crisis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Vits in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  