-- 
Goldman Said to Suffer Rebuff in Bid for Medco Advisory Role

-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-08-05T17:48:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/goldman-said-to-suffer-rebuff-in-bid-for-29-billion-medco-advisory-role.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , ranked
second among takeover advisers this year, would be No. 1 if the
bank had its way after a call made to  Medco Health Solutions
Inc. (MHS)  following its $29.1 billion sale to  Express Scripts Inc. (ESRX)   Days after the second-largest takeover this year, Medco
received a request from Goldman Sachs to be credited for helping
to arrange the deal, said four people with knowledge of the
matter, who declined to be identified because the conversation
was private. In the July 21 statement announcing the
transaction,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  were
identified as Medco advisers.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  worked with Express Scripts.  During the discussion between Goldman Sachs and Medco, a
Goldman Sachs banker reminded Medco of the firm’s past work for
the company and Medco’s role as a manager of pharmacy benefits
for some Goldman employees, the people said. Medco considered
the discussion of its business relationships as pressure to put
Goldman Sachs on the deal and was concerned the bank would yank
the benefits contract if it weren’t credited, the people said.  People close to Goldman Sachs said the banker was
highlighting its relationship with Medco, and the firm deserved
recognition for previous work related to the transaction.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, and Lowell Weiner, a spokesman for Franklin Lakes, New
Jersey-based Medco, declined to provide comments.  ‘All’s Fair’  For all of its efforts to persuade Medco to credit Goldman
Sachs as an adviser in the takeover, the firm was unsuccessful,
said the people familiar with the matter. Medco relayed the
decision to  Express Scripts , one of the people said.  Thom Gross, a spokesman for St. Louis-based Express
Scripts, declined to comment.  The campaign to be included as an adviser is typical of the
competition among investment banks in high-stakes takeovers.
Firms sometimes try to get on a deal just before or after an
announcement, and league table rankings are used by bankers to
win new business.  “All’s fair in love and war, and M&A league tables are
war,” said  David Hilder , an analyst at Susquehanna Financial
Group in New York who rates Goldman Sachs shares “positive.”
“I cannot think of any technique I’d be surprised by.”  Medco Relationship  Firms will often agree to provide financing or other
services to get credit on a deal they played almost no role in,
said bankers who declined to be identified. Banks have used
contracts with technology clients to get credit on their deals,
even bringing chief information officers along to meetings,
according to the bankers. Firms have also threatened to pull a
client’s line of credit or end a trading relationship if they
aren’t given credit, they said.  Goldman Sachs has advised Medco on previous deals and
helped underwrite a $1 billion sale of senior notes for the
company in September 2010. Medco, which has lost contracts to
competitors in recent months, negotiates prescription-drug
prices for Goldman Sachs, which has about 35,500 employees. Most
pharmacy-benefits management, or PBM, contracts last two or
three years.  A top spot among M&A advisers is a sign of prestige on  Wall
Street  because it indicates that the bank has the trust of chief
executives and corporate boards.  This year, JPMorgan has advised on deals totaling $343.5
billion, just ahead of Goldman Sachs, which has advised on
$329.7 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Every M&A department has a group of people who do
virtually nothing but try to make sure they get as much league-
table credit as possible.” said Susquehanna’s Hilder.  NYSE Credit  Advisory credit is important because bankers seeking new
business often show clients pitch books that include market-
share rankings. For mergers-and-acquisitions work, the tally
most commonly used in such presentations is a list of banks in
order of the dollar value of transactions on which they have
advised. The ranking by dollar value makes credit for work on
large transactions such as Medco crucial.  Goldman Sachs was absent from the year’s largest deal,  AT&T
Inc. (T) ’s proposed $39 billion purchase of T-Mobile USA Inc. The
bank was one of several to make a last-minute pitch to get
credit for advising  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  on its planned merger with
 Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  this year. NYSE, led by former Goldman Sachs
executive  Duncan Niederauer , used bankers at Perella Weinberg
Partners LP in the negotiations for more than two years, the
exchange operator said in a May regulatory filing.  M&A Fees  Shortly before announcing the accord in February, NYSE
agreed to credit  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA, Goldman Sachs, and Morgan
Stanley with offering additional advice, said people with
knowledge of the matter. Citigroup Inc. was added as an adviser
later on. In the May filing, NYSE said it would pay Perella
Weinberg $27.5 million for advice and didn’t disclose payments
to any other financial advisers.  In quarterly press releases, Goldman Sachs and rivals
typically highlight their position in the league tables even
though the business accounts for a fraction of overall revenue.
Fees from takeover advice contributed $994 million, or 5.2
percent of Goldman Sachs’s $19.2 billion of revenue in the first
half of this year, according to the New York-based firm.  JPMorgan made $1.03 billion in advisory fees during the
same period, or 2 percent of overall revenue, and  Morgan
Stanley (MS) , the No. 3-ranked takeover adviser, took in $918
million, or 5.4 percent of revenue.  Bouncing Back  Goldman Sachs, whose website states its No. 1 business
principle is that “our clients’ interests always come first,”
suffered a reputational blow last year after being accused by
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and a Senate
subcommittee of misleading customers in a 2007 mortgage-linked
investment. The bank paid $550 million in July 2010 to settle
the SEC’s lawsuit, without admitting or denying guilt, and said
it made a mistake in the marketing materials.  Goldman Sachs had declined 25 percent this year through
yesterday in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  The controversy raised questions about whether clients
would do less business with Goldman Sachs. The firm, which held
the top spot among M&A advisers from 2001 through 2008, was in
second place in 2009 and 2010, Bloomberg data show. After the
first quarter of this year, the firm was in third place after
Morgan Stanley and JPMorgan, and Goldman Sachs’s quarterly
earnings press release didn’t mention the bank’s M&A ranking for
the first time in a decade.  Goldman Sachs rebounded in the second quarter and ended
June holding the top spot in global announced takeovers. The
ranking was prominently featured in the second-quarter earnings
release.  When Gary D. Cohn, Goldman Sachs’s president and chief
operating officer, spoke at an investor conference in June, the
analyst who introduced him noted Goldman Sachs had the No. 2
position in announced mergers & acquisitions.  “Before I start, I just want to clarify one thing to make
sure you don’t think we’ve lost our competitive instinct,” Cohn
said, as he began his presentation. “We are No. 1 in M&A. Okay?
I didn’t want that to go unsaid.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 