-- 
Gold Heads for Fifth Weekly Gain on U.S., European Debt, Equity Turmoil

-- B y   P h a m - D u y   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-08-05T15:26:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/gold-heads-for-fifth-weekly-gain-on-u-s-european-debt-equity-turmoil.html
Gold rose in New York, heading for
the fifth straight weekly gain, as investors sought a haven from
financial-market turmoil spurred by budget woes in the U.S. and
 Europe .  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was poised for the biggest
weekly slump since November 2008. Yesterday, gold jumped to a
record $1,684.90 an ounce as global economic concerns and the
sovereign-debt crisis in the U.S. and Europe sent yields on two-
year Treasuries to a record low.  “It’s a volatile period for gold,”  Adam Klopfenstein , a
senior strategist at MF Global Holdings Ltd. in  Chicago , said in
a telephone interview. “Gold is an inverse barometer for
equities and the economy, but investors are buying gold on
breaks because the debt crisis can’t be resolved in one or two
days.”  Gold futures for December delivery gained $3.20, or 0.2
percent, to $1,662.20 at 11:24 a.m. on the Comex in  New York . A
close at that price would leave the most-active contract up 1.9
percent this week. Earlier, the metal fell as much as 0.9
percent.  Gains may be limited as some investors sell the metal to
cover losses in other markets, said  Dennis Gartman , an economist
and the editor of the Suffolk, Virginia-based Gartman Letter. He
recommended that clients cut gold positions by half.  “Given the circumstances prevailing in a world that shall
put a premium high upon liquidity, we think it is wise to
liquidate our gold holdings ahead of everyone else,” Gartman
said in the report. “The highs seen yesterday shall not be
taken out for quite some long while.”  Silver futures for September delivery dropped 60.6 cents,
or 1.5 percent, to $38.825 an ounce on the Comex.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pham-Duy Nguyen in Seattle at 
 pnguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  