-- 
Gold Jumps on Rising Haven Demand With ‘Fear Spreading Across All Markets’

-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 
2011-08-05T07:19:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/gold-jumps-on-rising-haven-demand-with-fear-spreading-across-all-markets-.html
Gold climbed as investors sought a
haven from a rout in financial and commodity markets, which
plunged on concern that global economic growth is stalling as
governments in the U.S. and  Europe  remain constrained by debt.  Bullion for immediate delivery gained as much as 1 percent
to $1,663.65 an ounce, and traded at $1,656.38 at 2:58 p.m. in
Singapore. Gold, which touched a record $1,681.72 yesterday, is
up 1.8 percent this week, set for the longest run of weekly
advances since the five weeks to March 4.  “Gold is supported on many fronts and we remain bullish,”
said Yang Shandan, a trader at Cinda Futures Co. “There’s fear
spreading across all markets,” said Yang, ranked second in a
Futures Daily and Securities Times poll of  China  gold analysts.  Asian stocks extended a global slump before a report today
that economists project will show U.S. employers added 85,000
workers in July, failing to reduce a jobless rate that’s holding
above 9 percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index had its biggest
fall since February 2009 yesterday after reports this week that
showed growth slowed in manufacturing and service industries.  Oil headed for the biggest weekly drop in three months and
copper slid on concern that demand for raw materials may slow.
The U.S. is the world’s largest energy user and the second-
biggest copper consumer. Both copper and crude have dropped this
year, while gold has rallied 16 percent.  December-delivery gold in  New York  gained as much as 0.5
percent to $1,666.60 an ounce, after touching an all-time high
of $1,684.90 yesterday. Holdings in exchange-traded products
climbed for a ninth day yesterday, gaining 4.1 metric tons to a
record 2,182.572 tons, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  European Debt  (For a related story to the European debt, click here. To
read a story on the performance today of currency, bond and
commodity markets, click here.)  “What’s really troubling investors is that given the
fiscal austerity in Europe and the U.S. and the fact that
 interest rates  are already at zero, it’s not clear what steps
governments can do to get us out of this,”  Russ Koesterich , San
Francisco-based global chief investment strategist at the
iShares unit of BlackRock Inc., said told Bloomberg Television.  The European Central Bank yesterday failed to halt a rout
in Italy and  Spain  as bond yields in both countries soared, even
as the ECB resumed bond purchases. A report today may show
German industrial output came close to stalling in June.  “Investors who are looking to China to offset weakness in
the rest of the world will have to re-think their options as
inflation remains elevated, and this can only mean higher gold
prices,” Yang said from Zhejiang.  China Inflation  Consumer prices in China, which led the rebound from the
global recession in 2009, rose 6.4 percent in July from a year
earlier, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey of 25 economists. That would match June’s increase, the
biggest since 2008, and prevent policy makers from loosening
monetary policy to spur growth. The number is due on Aug. 9.  In a separate Bloomberg News survey, 13 of 25 traders,
investors and analysts, or 52 percent, said that gold will rise
next week. Eight predicted lower prices and four were neutral.  Cash silver, which touched a three-month high of $42.23 an
ounce yesterday, climbed as much as 1.4 percent to $39.46. Spot
platinum extended its biggest decline in nine months, dropping 2
percent to $1,688 an ounce. Palladium shed 2 percent to $732.75
an ounce after falling the most since March yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glenys Sim in  Singapore  at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  