-- 
Google+ May Pass Twitter Among U.S. Adults Online

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-08-05T16:16:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/google-may-pass-twitter-with-one-fifth-of-u-s-adults-online.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s new social-networking
service may grow to claim 22 percent of online U.S. adults in a
year, passing Twitter Inc. and LinkedIn Corp. to be the second-
most-used social site after Facebook Inc., a survey found.  Google+ has signed up 13 percent of U.S. adults and will
add 9 percent over the next year, according to the survey from
Bloomberg/YouGov. In the same period, Facebook will lose about 2
percentage points of U.S. adults to keep 69 percent of that
population, while Twitter and LinkedIn continue to grow their
portion of users.  Started in late June, Google+ is growing faster than
Facebook and MySpace Inc. did in their early days. The service,
which lets people connect with and manage groups of friends on a
website, gained about 25 million users worldwide in less than a
month, estimates market researcher  ComScore Inc. (SCOR)  Facebook has
more than 750 million active users.  “Google+ is tracing a path similar to Facebook’s initial
growth -- building excitement in a core group of early
adopters,” said Michael Nardis, head of YouGov investment
products, in a statement about the survey.  Katie Watson, a spokeswoman for  Mountain View , California-
based Google, declined to comment. Jonathan Thaw, a spokesman
for Facebook, and  Matt Graves , a spokesman for Twitter, also
declined to comment.  Bloomberg and London-based market researcher  YouGov Plc (YOU) 
polled 1,003 online U.S. residents 18 and older from July 29 to
Aug. 2 for the survey.  Twitter, LinkedIn Grow  The results showed Twitter will add almost 3 percentage
points of U.S. adults online over the next year to claim 20
percent of the population. LinkedIn will also have signed up 20
percent of those people, after gaining almost 2 percentage
points within the year, the survey found.  Among survey respondents who had signed up for Google+, 45
percent said they read content on the site every day, compared
with Facebook’s 62 percent of users. Twitter has 42 percent of
its users return daily, while LinkedIn has 8 percent.  Google+ usage is likely to take away from the time people
spend on Facebook, the survey found. Some 30 percent of people
who use both services said they plan to reduce the amount of
time they spend on Facebook.  Some 31 percent of Google+ users polled said they have
already abandoned their accounts or not written any posts yet on
the site.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 Dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  