-- 
Google, KLA-Tencor, Bacardi, SocGen: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-08-05T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/google-bacardi-anheuser-busch-socgen-intellectual-property.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , escalating a feud with
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  over patents, said Microsoft’s offer to join a
bid for  Novell Inc. (NOVL) ’s intellectual property would have
eliminated its ability to defend its Android mobile-phone
operating system against legal attacks.  “A joint acquisition of the Novell patents that gave all
parties a license would have eliminated any protection these
patents could offer to Android against attacks from Microsoft
and its bidding partners,” Google Chief Legal Officer David
Drummond said yesterday in an updated blog posting. “Making
sure that we would be unable to assert these patents to defend
Android -- and having us pay for the privilege -- must have
seemed like an ingenious strategy to them. We didn’t fall for
it.”  KLA-Tencor Sued by Nanometrics Over Patents for Chip-Making  KLA-Tencor Corp. (KLAC) , a maker of computer chip fabrication
equipment, was sued in federal court in Delaware by rival
Nanometrics Inc., which accused it of infringing two U.S.
patents for alignment gear and seeks damages after a jury trial.  Milpitas, California-based Nanometrics, with $188 million
in sales last year, contends KLA-Tencor knew of the patents,
awarded in 2006 and 2007, and used the protected technology
anyway.  “Nanometrics has suffered damages” to be determined at a
trial, and KLA-Tencor, also of Milpitas, is “without a
reasonable basis for believing” it doesn’t infringe, according
to the complaint.  In dispute are patents 6,982,793 B1, issued in January
2006; and 7,230,705 B1, issued in June 2007.  KLA-Tencor reported $3.17 billion in sales last fiscal
year.  Meggan Powers, a KLA-Tencor spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately return an e-mail message seeking comment on the
allegations.  The case is  Nanometrics Inc. (NANO)  v. KLA-Tencor Corp., 1:11-cv-
00685, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Pernod Ricard Loses Ruling in Bacardi ‘Havana Club’ Fight  Pernod Ricard SA, the world’s second-biggest liquor maker,
lost an appeals court ruling in its 17-year battle with Bacardi
Ltd. over the right to use the name “Havana Club” on rum in
the U.S. market.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Philadelphia ruled yesterday
that a lower-court correctly ruled that consumers wouldn’t be
confused into thinking Bacardi’s Havana Club rum was made in
Cuba because the label states it was made in  Puerto Rico .  “No reasonable interpretation of the label as a whole
could lead to the conclusion that it is false or misleading,”
U.S. Circuit Judge Kent Jordan said in an opinion that affirms
the 2010 ruling by the U.S. District Court in Wilmington,
 Delaware .  “We’re certainly disappointed with the decision,” David
Bernstein, a lawyer representing Pernod Ricard, said in a
telephone interview. “If there’s any basis for an appeal, we’ll
consider it.”  Pernod has been fighting with  Bacardi  over rights to the
name in the U.S. since 1994, when Bacardi applied for a U.S.
trademark for Havana Club. That application was suspended by the
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office pending the results of
litigation, Bernstein said. Pernod, based in Paris, sells  Havana
Club  throughout the world, except in the U.S.  “Our conclusion in this case says nothing of whether the
words ‘Havana Club’ are eligible for registration as a
trademark,” Jordan said in the opinion yesterday.  Pernod argued in its appeal that U.S. District Judge Sue
Robinson “refused even to consider” the results of a Pernod-
commissioned survey showing that about 20 percent of U.S. rum
consumers were misled or confused by Bacardi’s Havana Rum
bottle.  In yesterday’s opinion, the appeals court said, “Survey
evidence has no helpful part to play on the question of what the
label communicates regarding geographic origin.”  Bacardi, based in Pembroke, Bermuda, argued that the survey
was “fatally flawed” and that the front of its liquor bottle
clearly states “Puerto Rican rum.”  “Bacardi applauds the appellate court’s decision which
reaffirms that Bacardi has accurately portrayed both the
geographic origin and Cuban heritage of our Havana Club rum,”
Patricia Neal, a spokeswoman for Bacardi USA, said in an e-
mailed statement.  Cuban trademarks have importance in anticipation of an end
to the 1963 embargo by the U.S. that blocks most trade between
the countries. Cuban-made rum can’t be legally sold in the U.S.  The Havana Club trademark was first used in the 1930s by
Cuba’s Arechabala family, whose distilling company was
confiscated by Fidel Castro’s revolutionary government. After
the trademark owned by the Arechabalas lapsed, the state-owned
Cubaexport registered it in the U.S. in 1976 and assigned it to
the Pernod joint venture in 1993.  In 1998, Congress passed legislation making trademarks
confiscated by the Cuban government unenforceable in the U.S.
The law has been applied only to the Havana Club mark.  The U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit in
 Washington  upheld that law in March. It said the U.S. Treasury
has the right to refuse to allow a Cuban state-owned group to
renew its U.S. trademark for Havana Club. Pernod sells Havana
Club throughout the world, except in the U.S., under that 1993
venture with Cubaexport.  Bacardi bought rights to the Havana Club name from the
Arechabala family and distills rum in that name in Puerto Rico
using the recipe of Jose Arechabala, court papers state. It has
been available in the U.S. since 2006 only in  Florida .  Pernod turned Cuba-made Havana Club into the world’s
fourth-most-popular brand of standard rum, selling about 3.5
million cases a year, up from 400,000 cases sold in 1993,
according to the research report.  Without access to the U.S. market, Pernod’s Havana Club had
5 percent of the world’s rum sales, according to the report. In
the U.S., Bacardi’s brands led the rum market with about 40
percent of sales, according to court papers.  In  Spain , Bacardi sued Pernod in 1999, claiming it was the
rightful owner of the Havana Club trademark.  Two Spanish courts ruled that the joint venture with Pernod
was the proper owner because the Arechabala family had neglected
its rights, both in allowing its trademark to expire and waiting
too long to challenge ownership. Spain’s  Supreme Court  ruled in
Pernod’s favor in February, saying Bacardi had no claim to the
Havana Club name in that country.  London-based Diageo Plc is the world’s largest distiller.  The appeal is Pernod Ricard USA LLC v. Bacardi USA Inc.,
10-2354, 3rd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (Philadelphia). The
Delaware case is Pernod Ricard USA LLC v. Bacardi USA Inc., 06-
cv-505, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Anheuser-Busch Loses ‘Bud’ Trademark Challenge in Bulgaria  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  lost a trademark battle to the
Czech Republic’s Budejovicky Budvar NP, the Washington Post
 reported .  A city court in Sofia, Bulgaria, rejected Anheuser-Busch’s
attempt to challenge Budvar’s registration of “Bud” as an
indication of geographic origin, the Post reported.  Budvar said Anheuser-Busch then withdrew its appeal of a
court ruling canceling two of its Bulgarian trademarks, “Bud”
and “American Bud,” the Post reported.  The Czech brewer is still seeking cancellation of other
Anheuser-Busch trademarks in Bulgaria, including “Anheuser-
Busch Bud,” the newspaper reported.  USM Denied Trademark Registration for Golden Eagle Head Logo  The University of Southern Mississippi can’t register its
 golden eagle-head image  as a trademark, a trademark appeals
board  ruled  July 29.  The University of  Iowa  had opposed the registration, saying
the image was too much like its  Hawkeyes  mark used in connection
with its sports teams.  The board noted that when the Mississippi school replaced
an elongated eagle head logo with one with a more rounded shape,
the number of vendors selling marked products increased
“dramatically” and items marked with the new logo became best
sellers.  The likelihood that consumers would be confused by the two
logos was increased because both schools’ merchandise is
available on the same websites and through the same brick-and-
mortar stores, including Wal-Mart Stores Inc., the board said.
Both logos are yellow, and both are used with university sports
teams.  The board said that while “the most enthusiastic fans”
would be able to tell the difference between the two schools’
logos, “more casual purchasers” would not.  “In the normal marketing environment, purchasers would not
usually have the luxury of examining marks in such minute
detail” to be able to distinguish between the two, the board
said.  Mambo Calls Off Opposition to ‘Mabo’ Trademark Registration  Australian surfwear company  Mambo  dropped its opposition to
a trademark registration for “Mabo” by the son of native-
rights activities  Eddie Mabo , The Australian newspaper reported.  The company said it will also re-release a shirt with the
“100 percent Mabo” design commemorating the 1992 land-rights
decision for which the elder Mabo had campaigned, according to
the Australian.  Proceeds of the sale of that shirt will go to Malcolm
Mabo’s clothing company, established to promote indigenous
people’s art, the newspaper reported.  Campaigners against Mambo’s opposition used Twitter Inc.’s
short messaging service to get the world out, according to The
Australian.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  U.K.’s Ofcom Looking at Reducing Cost of Infringement Appeals  The cost of processing appeals under the U.K.’s Digital
Economic act could be about 400 British pounds each, according
to a  report  released by the government regulatory authority for
broadcast and telecommunications, known as Ofcom.  This could lead to an annual processing cost of 40 million
pounds ($65 million), according to the report.  The high cost of pursuing these appeals could potentially
provide a barrier to some copyright owners’ participation in the
enforcement process, the report suggested. A “vexatious system
of coordinated appeals” could bring this whole system down, if
a lobby group were to be successful in attempts to persuade
consumers to appeal every single infringement notification made
under the act, according to the Ofcom report.  Ofcom said in the report it’s considering seeking bids from
various entities that already operate adjudication and
arbitration systems as a way of getting what it called
“innovative and cost-focused bids.” Another cost-cutting
possibility might be the removal of the right of appeal
altogether, Ofcom said, noting that this could be “frustrating
for subscribers.”  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Societe Generale (GLE)  Suit Alleging Theft of Secrets Is Dismissed  Societe Generale SA agreed to dismiss a suit in which it
claimed a former foreign-exchange trader misappropriated trade
secrets before leaving the bank.  In a May 17 complaint in  Manhattan  federal court, the bank
sought an order to force the ex-employee, Karma Tenzing, to
return what it claimed was confidential material.  Tenzing “systematically sent to his home and to third
parties confidential SG trade secrets about client trades and
contacts, procedures, personal data, client identities, and
business P&L information,” the bank alleged in the complaint.  Tenzing, described by Societe Generale as a junior
salesman, offered the information to his employer-to-be,  Credit
Agricole SA (ACA) , according to Societe Generale.  Tenzing said in a court filing that he didn’t provide a
person at Credit Agricole “with a customer list as SocGen
alleges.” He provided the names of two friends as references
and “a generic list of mostly hedge funds and banks which trade
widely in the industry,” he said.  “I have no intention of using the materials competitively
and am trying to return them to SocGen,” Tenzing said in the
May 23 filing.  Other documents he was accused of taking weren’t
confidential or he sent home for his own use, he said.  Both sides agreed to dismissal of the suit, according to
court papers filed July 7. The dismissal came after the Paris-
based bank told U.S. District Judge George Daniels May 26 that
the parties had reached “a settlement in principle” and were
completing an agreement.  Settlement terms weren’t disclosed.  Societe Generale is the third-largest French bank by
assets, and Credit Agricole is second. The largest is BNP
Paribas SA.  Mitchell Cohen, Tenzing’s lawyer, didn’t reply to a voice-
mail message yesterday. Andrez Carberry, a lawyer for Societe
Generale reached by telephone Aug. 3, declined to comment on the
dismissal of the suit. Anne-Sophie Gentil, a spokeswoman for
Credit Agricole, didn’t immediately reply to a voice-mail
message yesterday seeking comment on the Societe Generale
allegations.  The case is Societe Generale v. Tenzing, 11-cv-3366, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  Santa Ana Says DoubleLine System Should Be ‘Similar’ to TCW  DoubleLine Capital LP executive Cris Santa Ana testified
that likenesses were to be expected between the firm’s
proprietary system for analyzing mortgage bonds and the approach
used at TCW Group Inc., where he formerly worked.  Santa Ana, an ex-managing director at the mortgage-backed
securities group in the Los Angeles-based unit of Societe
Generale SA, told jurors yesterday in  California  state court
that DoubleLine’s analytical system was designed by some of the
same people who built TCW’s system and went over to DoubleLine
in December 2009.  “They should be similar,” Santa Ana said under
questioning by TCW’s lawyer, John Quinn.  TCW alleges that DoubleLine was set up with proprietary
information and trade secrets stolen by its ex-investment chief,
 Jeffrey Gundlach , along with Santa Ana and two others. The
DoubleLine defendants haven’t denied downloading TCW data,
including client portfolio information, starting in September
2009. They deny having used any of this information when they
started DoubleLine in December of that year, after TCW fired
them. They say TCW terminated them to avoid paying Gundlach’s
group hundreds of millions of dollars in performance fees.  Santa Ana said yesterday that he downloaded TCW data at
Gundlach’s request before they were fired. Co-defendant Jeffrey
Mayberry, another executive who left TCW for DoubleLine,
previously testified that he started downloading TCW
information, including a mortgage-backed securities database and
client portfolio holdings, on Sept. 3, 2009. He said that was
when people in Gundlach’s unit thought TCW Chief Executive
Officer Marc Stern was about to fire Gundlach.  Mayberry said Aug. 2 that he started downloading at the
instruction of Santa Ana, who sat at a workstation next to him
at TCW’s trading desk and used an external hard drive to
download data on a daily basis.  The case is Trust Co. of the West v. Gundlach, BC429385,
California Superior Court, Los Angeles County.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 