-- 
Goolsbee Cites ‘Encouraging News’ in Number of Jobs Created

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-08-05T14:27:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/goolsbee-cites-encouraging-news-in-number-of-jobs-created-1-.html
White House chief economist  Austan Goolsbee  said today’s unemployment report offers “encouraging
news” on job growth and suggests that the U.S. will avoid a
recession.  “All the focus has got to be how do we get the growth rate
up for the second half of the year,” Goolsbee, chairman of the
White House Council of Economic Advisers, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview.  The Labor Department said today that U.S. employers added a
larger-than-expected 117,000 jobs in July, easing concern that
economic growth is about to stall. The  unemployment rate 
unexpectedly fell 0.1 percentage point to 9.1 percent.  “It’s pure relief,”  Mark Zandi , economist for Moody’s
Analytics, said in a telephone interview. “I think it indicates
the economy’s just going to skirt recession.”  Zandi said he sees the economy rebounding to a growth rate
of 3 percent to 4 percent by “the fourth quarter and into next
year.”  Allen Sinai , chief global economist at the research firm
Decision Economics Inc. in  New York , also called the jobless
numbers “a relief.”  Even so, they “don’t suggest a strong rebound in the
second half, and that will prove disappointing to the White
House and the  Federal Reserve ,” Sinai said in a telephone
interview.  ‘Faster Growth’ Needed  Goolsbee, on his last day at the White House before
returning to his teaching position at the University of Chicago,
said in a White House  blog post  that while the “better than
expected report is welcome news, the unemployment rate remains
unacceptably high and faster growth is needed to replace the
jobs lost in the downturn.”  The  U.S. economy  has added 2.4 million jobs in the past 17
months, he told Bloomberg Television.  “Those are not the things that a double-dip recession
looks like,” he said.  To boost the economy, President Barack Obama is pushing
Congress to adopt a package of trade accords with South Korea,
Panama and Colombia, overhaul patent laws to encourage
entrepreneurs and extend the payroll tax cut and unemployment
insurance, among other steps.  “It’s still a call to action,” Goolsbee said. “It still
says we have a long way to go. Let’s do some things that make
people feel better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Leslie Hoffecker at 
 lhoffecker@bloomberg.net  