-- 
Gross Says Bank Fees to Hold Cash ‘Unheard of’: Tom Keene

-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-08-05T16:57:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/gross-says-u-s-banks-charging-fees-to-hold-cash-unheard-of-tom-keene.html
Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
biggest bond mutual fund at Pacific Investment Management Co.,
said Bank of  New York  Mellon Corp.’s decision to charge clients
for large deposits shows how the government’s efforts to revive
the economy are distorting markets and hurting savers.  “The Swiss have done that but in the United States, it’s
supposedly unheard of,” Gross said during a radio interview
today on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with Ken Prewitt and  Tom
Keene . “I’ve earned 0.1 percent on my money-market account for
about two-and-a-half years; it’s what is called financial
repression, where  interest rates  are much lower than
inflation.”  Gross, 67, manager of the $245 billion  Pimco Total Return
Fund (PTTRX) , has said since May that savers have been hurt as the
 Federal Reserve  has kept its rate at zero to 0.25 percent for
three years. The policy, meant to keep market rates low and
encourage borrowing, has also helped the government reduce the
cost of servicing its debt, he said.  “The fact is for the next several years, maybe for the
next decade, financial repression will take place and you will
earn much less than the rate of inflation on your savings
deposits,” Gross said today.  Excess Cash  BNY Mellon said yesterday it will charge clients with more
than $50 million 13 basis points, or 0.13 percentage point, for
“excess amounts” of cash they deposit with the bank. Custody
banks like BNY Mellon have been flooded with cash as the
European debt crisis, the debate over the U.S. debt ceiling and
the stock market selloff prompted institutions to seek the
safety of insured bank accounts.  A global rout in equities drove the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index to its worst slump since February 2009 yesterday, while
two-year Treasury yields plunged to a record low. The  S&P 500 
tumbled 4.8 percent to 1,200.07 yesterday in New York. It has
dropped 11 percent since July 22, the biggest loss over the same
amount of time since March 2009.  Demand for short-term government debt instruments is rising
after the U.S. signaled it won’t increase sales of Treasury
bills even following lawmakers’ agreement to raise the debt
ceiling. One-month Treasury bill rates traded at zero percent
yesterday after earlier falling to negative 0.0102 percent. They
reached 0.1825 percent on July 29, the highest since February
2009.  French Spreads  Gross has more than doubled his investments in non-U.S.
developed countries in his Total Return fund to 13 percent in
June from 6 percent in April, according to data released last
month. The fund had 11 percent of its holdings in emerging
markets. It holds about 9 percent in Treasuries, up from 8
percent in June, he said in a Bloomberg Television interview on
Aug. 2.  Along with the debt issues and slowing growth in the U.S.,
markets are nervous about the sovereign debt crisis still
unfolding in  Europe , Gross said. He cited the widening of bond
spreads in  France  relative to  Germany  over the past week as a
sign of how nervous investors are about the risks in Europe.  “Resolution in Euroland is key, and the primary reason why
the risk markets were so weak over the past week,” he said.
Gross said he favors debt sold by  Canada ,  Australia ,  Brazil  and
 Mexico , sovereigns that have good balance sheets while offering
higher yields.  The debt-ceiling compromise reached by Congress last
weekend won’t make a “significant dent” in U.S. deficits,
Gross said in his monthly investment outlook posted on Newport
Beach, California-based Pimco’s website earlier this week.  ‘Unfathomable’ Debt  “In addition to an existing nearly $10 trillion of
outstanding Treasury debt, the U.S. has a near unfathomable $66
trillion of future liabilities at net present cost,” Gross
wrote in his commentary.  Trillions of dollars in future spending cuts and tax
increases are still necessary to stabilize the U.S. debt ratio
as a percentage of gross domestic product to maintain a AAA
credit rating, Gross wrote. President  Barack Obama  on Aug. 2
signed into law a debt-limit compromise bill that will defer
decisions on the nation’s finances to a bipartisan panel and may
only modestly reduce deficits while slowing economic growth.  The Total Return Fund has returned 5.7 percent in the past
year, beating 61 percent of its peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. This year, the fund has advanced 4.4
percent through Aug. 3, lagging behind 55 percent of rivals. The
firm managed $1.3 trillion in assets as of March 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sree Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  