-- 
ICBC Pays $600 Million for Standard Bank’s Argentina Stakes

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 
2011-08-05T08:58:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/icbc-pays-600-million-for-standard-bank-argentina-stakes-1-.html
Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398) 
Ltd., the world’s most profitable lender, agreed to pay $600
million for some assets controlled by Standard Bank Group Ltd.
in  Argentina  in its biggest takeover in more than three years.  The Chinese bank will pay cash for an 80 percent stake in
Standard Bank Argentina, Standard Investments and Inversora
Diagonal, according to a statement to the  Hong Kong  stock
exchange today. The Beijing-based lender and Standard Bank
London Holdings Plc also plan to jointly invest $100 million in
Standard Bank Argentina after the transaction is completed.  The acquisition extends ICBC’s global expansion to South
America’s second-largest economy, adding to plans announced this
year to open a bank in  Brazil  and buy a U.S. lender. ICBC, which
aims to be the first Chinese lender to operate in Argentina,
would gain 103 branches in a nation whose second-largest trading
partner is the Asian country.  “ICBC’s expansion overseas is in line with the broader
trend of Chinese companies tapping into the international
market,” Grace Wu, head of Hong Kong and China banking research
at Daiwa Capital Markets Hong Kong Ltd., said by telephone today.
“ICBC may have more acquisitions in  Latin America  and Asia.”  Shares of ICBC fell 3.2 percent to HK$5.46 at the close of
Hong Kong trading amid a global equity rout. The stock has lost
almost 6 percent this year.  Selling Assets  The Chinese bank, which acquired a 20 percent stake in
Johannesburg-based  Standard Bank  for about $5.4 billion in March
2008, is the largest shareholder in  Africa ’s biggest lender.
Standard Bank dropped 2 percent to 91.69 rand as of 10:37 a.m.
in Johannesburg.  The sale of the Argentina unit underscores Standard Bank’s
reversal in strategy to focus on the African continent, where it
has operations in 17 countries. The lender sold its stake in
 Russia ’s Troika Dialog investment bank earlier this year and
plans to use the $372 million in proceeds to make acquisitions
in Africa to benefit from increased trade and investment banking
transactions with emerging markets.  ICBC has announced takeovers and investments valued at a
combined $2.1 billion since the beginning of 2008, including
spending $1.4 billion to increase its stake in its Hong Kong
unit about a year ago, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Investment in Americas  The Chinese lender said in January that it agreed to buy an
80 percent stake in Bank of East  Asia  Ltd.’s U.S. operations for
$140 million. The transaction, which would give it a commercial
banking license in the world’s largest economy as well as a
retail banking network, is awaiting regulatory approval.  ICBC’s assets in the Americas have jumped 5.5 times to
$6.59 billion at the end of last year from $1.01 billion a year
earlier, according to its annual report.  Standard Bank Argentina, which has been in operation since
1917, gives ICBC 103 branches in the nation, according to the
statement. ICBC had 16,227 outlets on the Chinese mainland and
203 overseas at the end of last year. The companies expect to
complete the transaction in the first half of next year,
Standard Bank said in a statement.  Expanding into  South America  “is an important component in
the bank’s globalization strategy,” ICBC, which was advised by
Credit Suisse Group AG on the deal, said in its statement today.
Argentina is “one of the key focus markets for the bank’s
phased expansion in South America.”  Argentine Connection  Standard Bank, which has had operations in Argentina for 12
years, took control of Bank of America Corp.’s BankBoston
Argentina unit in its first purchase of a retail bank outside
Africa in April 2007 as it sought to reduce dependence on its
home market. The acquired business, with about $2 billion in
assets and 89 branches, was Argentina’s seventh-largest lender
at that time.  Standard Bank said it will generate about $380 million from
the sale of most of its stake in the bank to ICBC after
accounting for transaction costs and investing $20 million in
the unit. The profit on selling the Argentina assets would be
about $217 million, it said.  The African lender is also keeping a 20 percent stake in
each of the target companies, which it can require ICBC to buy
between the second anniversary of the closing date and the
seventh, according to the statement.  While Standard Bank calls Africa the “core” of its
business, profit before one-time items from the region,
excluding  South Africa , fell 38 percent last year. On Oct. 21,
the lender announced it would cut as many as 2,100 jobs in
 London  and Johannesburg to reduce expenses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  