-- 
ICICI’s Naren Using Stock Selloff to Buy ‘Non-Defensive’ Stocks

-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 
2011-08-05T11:14:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/icici-s-naren-using-stock-selloff-to-buy-non-defensive-stocks.html
Sankaran Naren, chief investment
officer for equities at ICICI Prudential Asset Management Co.,
 India ’s third-largest money manager, comments on the drop in
Indian equities. He spoke in an interview with Bloomberg UTV.
ICICI Prudential manages $17.8 billion in assets.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index retreated 2.2
percent to 17,305.87 at the 3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai.  On the global sell off:  “The fear is global and people have deferred purchases of
risk assets for non-risk assets. From an India perspective, the
kind of fall we’ve seen in commodities in the last one or two
weeks is very beneficial because inflation as a worry will be
smaller. It is an opportunity for India to start outperforming
because we never had a problem from the point of view of growth.
Investors should consider investing in equities.”  On oil prices:  “The drop in oil price is a powerful benefit for India,
which has not been factored in this market fall.”  Oil fell to the lowest in eight months in  New York , set for
the biggest weekly loss since May. Futures dropped as much as
4.3 percent to $82.87 a barrel after slumping 5.8 percent
yesterday. India depends on imports to meet almost 80 percent of
energy demand. A 10 percent increase in crude costs may add as
much as 2 percentage points to wholesale-price inflation as
input costs rise, the central bank said in a report on May 2.  On investment strategy:  “We’re using the current fall to reduce cash across all
our funds. This is the time to look for more aggressive sectors
and not defensive sectors. The defensive sectors are priced very
high and other sectors are cheap.  ‘‘We would choose companies which have good balance sheet.
We’re not in favor of high-leveraged companies, given the high
interest-rate scenario.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  