-- 
Midwest Gasoline Premium Strengthens on Fire at Memphis Refinery

-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 
2011-08-05T18:12:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/midwest-gasoline-premium-strengthens-on-fire-at-memphis-refinery.html
Gasoline in the Midwest strengthened
for the first time in four days after  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) ’s
Memphis refinery caught fire, forcing all the main production
units to be closed.  The fire started in a heater associated with an 80,000-
barrel-a-day crude unit at the refinery, said Bill Day, a
spokesman at Valero’s headquarters in  San Antonio . The plant’s
capacity is 195,000 barrels a day, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The discount for conventional, 87-octane gasoline in the
Midwest, or Group 3, market, narrowed 0.75 cent to 4.25 cents a
gallon versus futures traded on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange
at 12:51 p.m. New York time, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Prompt delivery rose 4.21 cents to $2.73 a gallon.  “That’s the really big news on products today,”  Andy
Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston, said in
a telephone interview.  PBF Energy Partners LP told environmental regulators that
it will cut processing rates on a fluid catalytic cracker at the
Toledo, Ohio, plant beginning Aug. 15 for maintenance. Work at
the 175,000-barrel-a-day refinery may last as long as four days,
the Parsippany, New Jersey-based company said in a filing.  The discount for conventional, 87-octane gasoline in the
Gulf Coast narrowed 0.65 cent to 9.6 cents a gallon over futures
at 1:45 p.m. in New York on speculation that supplies will be
moved to the Midwest.  Total Petrochemicals USA Inc. also reported emissions at
its Port Arthur, Texas, refinery after a compressor associated
with a coker unit shut yesterday. The “compressor was put back
in service as quickly as possible,” the company, a unit of
French  oil company  Total SA, said in the filing with state
regulators.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets in New York at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 