-- 
Tiger Woods Seven Shots Back at Bridgestone, Scott Shares Lead With Three

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-08-06T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/tiger-woods-six-shots-off-scott-s-lead-as-2nd-round-of-bridgestone-begins.html
Tiger Woods  is seven shots back
entering weekend play at the  Bridgestone Invitational , where his
former caddie is helping Australian  Adam Scott  share the lead
with three Americans.  Woods, making his return to the golf tour following an
almost four-month layoff caused by knee and Achilles tendon
injuries, shot 1-over-par 71 yesterday at Firestone Country Club
in Akron,  Ohio , in a second round that included four birdies,
three bogeys and a double-bogey. He’s at 1 under overall, tied
for 36th place.  Scott, who now employs Woods’s former caddie,  Steve Williams , bogeyed his final hole yesterday to finish even for
the day and to remain at 8 under. He’s tied for the lead with
 Ryan Moore , Keegan Bradley and  Rickie Fowler , who shot a 6-under
64 in the second round.  If Fowler, 22, can win the $8.5 million tournament, he
would be the youngest person ever to win a World Golf
Championships event. The youngest so far is Woods, who was 23
when he won the Bridgestone Invitational in 1999.  After beginning the second round with a par on the 10th
hole, Woods, a 14-time major tournament winner, missed a birdie
chance on the 11th when his eight-foot putt failed to drop.
After bogeys on the par-4 14th and par-3 15th, Woods made a
brief move up the leaderboard with birdies on the next two
holes. He then went through a stretch of a bogey, birdie,
double-bogey and birdie on Nos. 4-7, and finished the day with
consecutive pars.  “I didn’t putt as well as I did yesterday, and
consequently I just never got the round going,” Woods told
reporters. “It was just not very good.”  New Caddie  Scott is playing in his fourth tournament with Williams as
his caddie and said the partnership has helped revitalize his
career. Scott has three wins on the U.S.  PGA Tour  since winning
the 2006 Tour Championship and struggled with his putting before
switching to a broomstick-length putter this year.  “I had a tough couple years and was very frustrated on the
golf course,” Scott told reporters after the second round. “To
have that fresh face come on with his confidence and belief in
my ability, absolutely, it’s another little jolt that inspires
you to work a little harder.”  Scott said the duo doesn’t discuss Woods while working
together.  “I’m not too interested in where Tiger’s game is at,
honestly,” Scott said. “I’ve got enough on my plate worrying
about my own game. I don’t think I’m going to get any inside
scoop that’s going to really make a difference to me.”  Martin Laird of Scotland, Jason Day of  Australia  and Robert Karlsson of  Sweden  are tied for fifth at 7 under, one shot ahead
of Sweden’s Fredrik Jacobson and American Brandt Snedeker.  Phil Mickelson  shot a 3-over 73 yesterday and is at even par for the
tournament.  New Distance  For the second straight day, Woods said his biggest issue
with his game is learning to control how far he hits his irons
because his swing speed has changed since he began working with
coach  Sean Foley .  “I’m hitting the ball so much farther,” he said after
yesterday’s round. “I’m hitting the ball numbers I’ve never hit
before. I’m swinging better so I’ve got to get used to the
numbers.”  Woods’s last competitive round before this week was May 12,
when he pulled out of the  Players Championship  after nine holes.
The former No. 1-ranked player dropped to 28th in the  Official
World Golf Ranking  during his absence from the U.S. PGA Tour.  He is playing with childhood friend Bryon Bell as his
caddie after firing Williams last month.  A year ago, Woods finished next to last at Firestone after
shooting 18 over par, his worst 72-hole score as a professional.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta  at
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 