-- 
Indian Stocks May Recover Before Other Markets, Choksey Says

-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 
2011-08-05T08:45:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/indian-stocks-may-recover-before-other-markets-choksey-says.html
Deven Choksey, managing director at
Mumbai-based K.R. Choksey Shares & Securities Pvt., which has
$125 million in assets, comments on the drop in Indian stocks.
He spoke in an interview with Bloomberg UTV.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index plunged 478.47
points, or 2.7 percent, to 17,214.71 at 2:13 p.m. in Mumbai.  On the global selloff:  “ India  has already given up about 20 percent in the last
seven to eight months. We’ve corrected ahead of other markets.
Developed markets are correcting because of problems they are
facing in those parts of the world. We could see a panic fall, a
capitulation, in global financial markets.  ‘‘Our valuations have turned attractive. Infrastructure
stocks are available at less than book; banking shares are close
to their book value. There’s a possibility of our markets
bouncing back earlier compared to others.”  Sensex companies trade at 14 times estimated earnings, down
from 21.5 times in March 2010, last year’s high.  On fall in commodity prices:  “The fall in crude oil and metal prices is a blessing in
disguise for us.”  Oil fell to the lowest in eight months in  New York , set for
the biggest weekly loss since May. Futures dropped as much as
4.3 percent to $82.87 a barrel after slumping 5.8 percent
yesterday. India depends on imports to meet almost 80 percent of
energy demand. A 10 percent increase in crude costs may add as
much as 2 percentage points to wholesale-price inflation as
input costs rise, the central bank said in a report on May 2.  On  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) ’s shares:  “Reliance is missing on positive newsflow. If we start to
get positive news then Reliance would be the first opportunity
to buy, but unfortunately we are not getting it. Let the panic
bottom take place, and then one can enter this stock.”  On top picks from Nifty companies:  “We would look at state-run banks. We would look at  State
Bank of India (SBIN)  as a contra-buy after their results.”  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , the country’s second-biggest lender, and
 Axis Bank Ltd. (AXSB) , the fourth-largest lender by market value, are
other lenders he favors.  On top mid-cap picks:  “Among midcaps, I am convinced about infrastructure. It is
available at a discount. Asset-ownership is something I am
looking for. I would be very comfortable with Mundra Port &
Special Economic Zone Ltd. I would buy it at every fall.”  Mundra Port, India’s largest non-state cargo terminal, was
little changed at 138.1 rupees at 1:39 p.m. local time. It has
fallen 10 percent in the past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  