-- 
Indonesia May Top Japan in Wheat Purchases

-- B y   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i   a n d   Y o g a   R u s m a n a
-- 
2011-08-05T03:13:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/indonesia-may-surpass-japan-as-asia-s-top-wheat-buyer-on-demand.html
Indonesia , the world’s fourth-most
populous nation, may boost wheat and flour imports 10 percent
this year as surging sales of instant noodles and cookies stoke
demand, according to an industry group.  Overseas purchases of wheat may gain to 5.06 million metric
tons from 4.6 million tons last year, while flour imports may
climb to 838,766 tons from 762,515 tons, Ratna Sari Loppies,
executive director at the Indonesian Flour Mills Association,
said in an interview yesterday.  Increased shipments may help Indonesia to dislodge  Japan  as
 Asia ’s biggest wheat buyer, while benefiting exporters from
 Australia . The increase may also help to stem a 9.7 percent drop
in Chicago prices this year, bolstering global food costs.  “We see an increase in consumption of basically everything
in Indonesia, not only noodles,” said Wellian Wiranto, a
Singapore-based economist at HSBC Holdings Plc. “Rice will
always be the staple food for Indonesians but as the income is
increasing, people are looking for a variety of food by
consuming noodles, bakery and other products.”  Southeast Asia ’s biggest economy expanded 6.49 percent in
the last quarter, according to data released today, and the
nation may be one step away from its first investment-grade
 credit rating  in more than a decade as President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono targets average growth of as much as 6.6 percent.  ‘Beneficial News’  “Any news that the Indonesians are boosting their
consumption and, importantly, their imports of wheat, is a
beneficial news story to Australia,” said  Luke Mathews , a
commodity strategist at the  Commonwealth Bank of Australia . The
Asian country is Australia’s biggest destination for wheat
exports, accounting for about 20 percent of shipments, he said.  Indonesia’s per capita income more than doubled to 27
million rupiah ($3,175) last year from 10.64 million rupiah in
2004, according to data from the  Central Bureau of Statistics .  “Instant noodle is very cheap in Indonesia, where we can
still buy a pack of noodle for less than 1,000 rupiah,” Loppies
said by phone from Jakarta. The biscuit industry is expanding to
meet rising local demand and for exports, she said.  The average price of a pack of instant noodles in Indonesia
was 1,496 rupiah as of Aug. 3, 6 percent higher than at the
start of the year, according to data from the trade ministry.
That compares with 7,418 rupiah per kilogram of medium-grade
rice, the most consumed staple, the ministry said.  Rising Rupiah  Indonesia’s central bank has refrained from raising
borrowing costs for five meetings to support  consumer spending ,
relying on a rising rupiah to curb price gains. With inflation
easing for a sixth straight month in July,  Bank Indonesia  will
keep its benchmark rate unchanged at 6.75 percent on Aug. 9,
according to a Bloomberg survey of 16 economists.  Wheat for December delivery dropped as much as 2 percent to
$7.1075 per bushel in  Chicago  today as commodities slid on
concern that the global economic recovery may be stalling. Corn,
soybeans, palm oil, base metals and crude also declined.  Wheat consumption in Indonesia was estimated at about 2.28
million tons in the six months through June, Franciscus Welirang,
a director at PT Indofood Sukses Makmur, who’s also chairman of
the flour mills association, said July 26. The country is the
biggest wheat buyer in Asia after Japan.  Japan may buy 5.11 million tons of wheat for food in the
year from April 1 compared with 5.39 million tons a year earlier,
the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries said in
March. Indonesia’s wheat imports may gain to 6.3 million tons in
the year from July 1, compared with an estimated 5.9 million
last season, a unit of the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said
in a  report  in April.  “Some of this predicted growth is because several new
wheat millers and multinational food manufacturers have begun
production and are driving demand,” according to USDA’s Foreign
Agricultural Service.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  