-- 
Indonesia’s Economy Expands 6.49% as Central Bank Avoids Raising Key Rate

-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   W i d y a   U t a m i
-- 
2011-08-05T02:26:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/indonesia-s-economy-expands-6-49-as-central-bank-avoids-raising-key-rate.html
Indonesia ’s economy grew more than 6
percent for a third straight quarter as the central bank’s
avoidance of interest-rate increases supported consumption.  Gross domestic product expanded 6.49 percent in the three
months through June from a year earlier, the  Central Bureau of
Statistics  said in Jakarta today. That compares with the revised
6.47 percent gain in the previous quarter. The median estimate
of 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a growth
rate of 6.5 percent.  The central bank has refrained from raising borrowing costs
for five meetings to support  consumer spending  in the world’s
fourth-most populous nation, relying on a rising rupiah to curb
price gains.  Europe ’s debt crisis and slowing U.S. expansion
have affected Indonesia less than neighbors including Malaysia
and  Singapore  because the nation relies less on exports.  “Most listed companies reported net profit gains last
quarter because the central bank tried to keep interest rates
stable,” David Sumual, an economist at PT Bank Central Asia in
Jakarta, said before the release. “It creates more demand as
well as makes investors more confident.”  The rupiah has climbed more than 5 percent against the
dollar this year, the second-biggest appreciation among major
Southeast Asian currencies, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The benchmark Jakarta Composite stock index has
jumped 11 percent, the biggest increase in Asia after Mongolia.  Global Stocks Rout  Asian stocks fell today, extending a global equities rout
after reports on manufacturing, spending and services this week
showed the  U.S. economy  is slowing. The  European Central Bank 
was forced to resume bond purchases yesterday to tame the
sovereign debt crisis and  Japan  intervened in its currency to
prevent a rising yen from hurting exports.  Indonesia’s central bank will keep its benchmark rate
unchanged at 6.75 percent on Aug. 9, all 16 economists said in a
Bloomberg News survey. Consumer prices rose 4.61 percent last
month from a year earlier, easing from a 5.54 percent pace in
June.  Bank Indonesia  predicts inflation will be 4 percent to 6
percent this year.  President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono’s government has held
off from removing fuel subsidies this year and is importing rice
to cool domestic prices as the world’s most populous Muslim
nation observes the fasting month of Ramadan. Southeast  Asia ’s
largest economy relies on consumption more than some of its
neighbors, making it less vulnerable to swings in global demand.  Indonesian Consumption  The $707 billion economy, the eighth-largest among emerging
markets, has expanded twice as fast as global output since 2008
amid buoyant Chinese demand for energy exports and a boom in
consumer spending that boosted earnings at companies from
Jakarta-based PT Indofood Sukses Makmur to PT Gudang Garam, a
Kediri-based cigarette maker.  The central bank forecasts GDP expansion of as much as 6.8
percent this year, after a 6.1 percent pace in 2010. In contrast,
growth has slowed in economies from Singapore to  Taiwan  as
demand from Europe and the U.S. for Asian exports eases.  Indonesia is one step away from its first investment-grade
 credit rating  in more than a decade as Yudhoyono targets growth
of as much as 6.6 percent on average through the remainder of
his term ending in 2014. He plans to double spending on roads,
ports and airports to $140 billion by then after inadequate
infrastructure hampered growth.  Foreign direct investment increased 21.1 percent to 43.1
trillion rupiah ($5 billion) in the second quarter from a year
earlier, according to the Investment Coordinating Board. Total
 investment  rose 22.1 percent last quarter.  Indonesia’s commercial loans this year will probably
surpass the central bank’s estimate as low  interest rates  help
drive demand, PT Bank Central Asia, the nation’s largest lender,
said last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Widya Utami in Jakarta at 
 wutami@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  