-- 
Intesa Posts 26% Drop in Second-Quarter Profit After Greek Debt Writedown

-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 
2011-08-05T14:50:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/intesa-second-quarter-profit-falls-26-to-1-05-billion-meeting-estimates.html
Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ,  Italy ’s second-
biggest bank, said second-quarter profit fell 26 percent after
gains from an asset sale last year weren’t repeated and it wrote
down the value of Greek government debt.  Net income declined to 741 million euros ($1 billion) from
more than 1 billion euros a year earlier, according to a
statement. That compares with the 737 million-euro average
estimate of 17 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. A 648 million-
euro one-time gain from the sale of Intesa’s depositary bank
boosted profit a year ago.  Intesa, the Italian lender that showed the strongest
results in the European stress tests, is cutting jobs and
reducing costs to strengthen its finances. The bank, led by
Chief Executive Officer  Corrado Passera , sold 5 billion euros of
stock in June to boost capital.  Intesa joined  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and Assicurazioni Generali SpA
in writing down Greek debt after agreeing to the international
rescue plan last month. The bank wrote down 25 million euros of
Greek  government bonds  maturing by 2020. Intesa held 559 million
euros of Greek bonds at the end of June.  Shares of the bank rose as much as 8 percent, and were up
6.8 percent at 1.31 euros at 4:40 p.m. in Milan, giving the
company a market value of 21.4 billion euros. The Bloomberg
 Europe  500 Insurance Index, which was down 0.5 percent today,
has dropped 30 percent in the past six months, compared with
Intesa’s 44 percent decline.  Passera said on a conference call that the bank’s targets
in its 2011-2013 business plan are achievable. “We are
reporting solid results today despite the difficult market
conditions.”  Provisions  Loan-loss provisions in the quarter declined to 777 million
euros from 794 million euros. The lender said that its core Tier
1 ratio, a key measure of financial health, rose to 10.2 percent
as of June 30 from 8.2 percent at the end of March. Net interest
income declined 3 percent to 2.36 billion euros in the quarter,
while net trading swung to a profit of 543 million euros.  The bank based in Milan expects to post “higher revenue,
lower operating costs and lower cost of credit,” the lender
said in the statement. Intesa’s “liquid assets” were about 80
billion euros at the end of June.  Second-quarter results at the bank also include gains from
the sale of 96 branches, stakes in Findomestic and Prada SpA,
and 132 million euros of writedowns of the value of the stake
held in Telco, the main investor of Telecom Italia SpA.  Intesa has already refinanced 83 percent of its bonds
maturing this year, Passera said. “We could even do without the
wholesale market for the rest of the year and for 2012, even
though this is not our intention,” he said.  The lender reduced its trading activities in the last few
months and didn’t make any third-part bond placements because of
the volatility of markets and investor concerns about the debt
crisis in Europe.  Loss of Confidence  Passera said Italy’s fundamentals remain strong. “There
are measures required to stimulate economic growth but the
Italian economy contains all the elements to deliver
satisfactory growth over the medium term,” he said.  Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  is struggling to convince
investors that Italy won’t become the next victim of Europe’s
sovereign crisis as Italian bond yields surge. Parliament last
month passed a 48 billion-euro austerity package to shield the
country from the turmoil and balance the budget by 2014.  Intesa’s shares, which have lost a third of their value
this year, are being hurt by a lack of confidence in Italy,
Passera said. The CEO and General Managers Gaetano Micciche and
Marco Morelli each bought today 500,000 of shares “as a sign of
confidence in the bank.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  