-- 
Invesco’s Surplice Mulls Machinery Stocks After Slump Overdone

-- B y   S a b i n e   P i r o n e
-- 
2011-08-05T08:33:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/invesco-s-surplice-mulls-machinery-stocks-after-slump-overdone.html
John Surplice, who manages  Invesco
Ltd. (IVZ) ’s $1.1 billion Pan-European Equity Fund, said the drop in
industrial stocks to the lowest levels since April 2009 is
providing investment opportunities in capital goods companies.  A lot of industrial products have had unrealistic
expectations for margins in light of the recent economic
indicators, said Surplice, who declined to discuss individual
stocks. Investors in capital goods companies often target
companies like mining-drill maker  Sandvik AB. (SAND)  Surplice’s
holdings includes Swiss drugmaker  Novartis AG (NOVN) , filings show.  “The ongoing correction in capital goods should throw up
some opportunities over the next months,” Surplice, a former
chartered accountant at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, said in a
phone interview from Henley, England on Aug. 3.  Since July 11, makers of industrial goods in the Stoxx
 Europe  600 index that have reported earnings accounted for the
biggest number of disappointments, with 26 of 50 companies
lagging behind analysts’ projections, Bloomberg data show.
European services and manufacturing growth weakened in July to
the slowest pace in almost two years, adding to signs the euro
region’s recovery is losing momentum.  Europe’s export-led recovery is faltering as leaders
struggle to contain the region’s worsening debt crisis as global
demand weakens. U.K., Australian and Russian manufacturing
contracted last month, while  China ’s output growth slowed.  Being Picky  Surplice, who joined Invesco in 1995, says that it’s still
possible for an investor to outperform the market by being
choosy.  “You have to look at the single stock,” said Surplice.
The economics graduate from Edinburgh University buys companies
primarily on their own prospects, with their main indicators
being the valuation and discounted outlook. “A lot of capital
goods is still risky and the risk reward not favorable.”  The fund holds 70 stocks, with the biggest investment being
Novartis, according to an Invesco filing on June 30. Surplice’s
791.6 million-euro ($1.1 billion) fund has beaten 75 percent of
its peers on a year-to-date basis, according to Bloomberg data.  Surplice has already invested in industrial companies that
benefit from the later stages of economic growth. Bilfinger
Berger AG is well positioned to benefit from demand for
specialized repairs, maintenance and the modernization of
industrial plants, the  fund manager  said.  Surplice also invested in  Rentokil Initial Plc (RTO) , the world’s
largest pest-control company, and  G4S Plc (GFS) , the world’s largest
publicly traded provider of security services.  Risk Reward  Industrial stocks are the second biggest sector of
Surplice’s fund after financial-related stocks as of June 30,
with an exposure of 21.6 percent. Geographically, the 20-year-
old fund had its biggest weighting in the U.K. with 31.6
percent, followed by the Netherlands, France, Germany and
Switzerland.  “This business is all about finding the most attractive
risk reward,” Surplice said, adding that companies in the
commercial and professional services sector will perform better
as we progress through to the later stages of the economic
cycle.  In civil aerospace, valuations fail to reflect the
improving financial dynamics that increased air traffic will
deliver in terms of new aircraft deliveries and spare parts,
which are high margin activities, according to Surplice.  Safran SA (SAF)  is among aerospace companies that have reported
higher first-half profit, buoyed by a recovery in global
aviation. The company, with  General Electric Co. (GE) , builds engines
for  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s 737 and Airbus SA’s A320, and is counting on
surging demand for a new engine that improves fuel efficiency.
Safran, Europe’s second-largest maker of aircraft motors, will
benefit from an improvement in hedge rates and operating
leverage, as well as the consolidation of some acquisitions,
which will boost earnings per share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabine Pirone in  London  at 
 spirone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  