-- 
Estate Executors Must Decide 2010 Tax by Nov. 15, IRS Says

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 
2011-08-05T22:03:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/irs-provides-guidance-to-executors-on-skipping-2010-estate-tax.html
The  Internal Revenue Service  is
giving executors of estates of people who died in 2010 until
Nov. 15 to opt out of the estate tax.  The federal estate tax was not in effect for most of 2010.
When Congress extended the tax retroactively in December, it
gave executors of estates of people who died that year a choice.
They could decide to skip the estate tax or pay the tax with a
$5 million per-person exemption and a 35 percent top rate, the
same as in 2011.  Some estates may fare better by paying the estate tax
because the assets, such as stocks, will pass to heirs with
stepped-up basis, which means they carry the value they had at
the time of death.  Those whose executors don’t pay the estate tax pass on
assets under a version of carryover basis, which is effectively
the initial price paid for the asset by the person who died. If
the heirs sell assets, they would owe capital gains taxes,
currently 15 percent on most assets, on the difference between
the sale price and the basis.  Before today’s announcement, estate lawyers weren’t sure
when they would need to file the returns.  “We thought they’d give us the form and then we’d have 90
days to fill it out,” said John Olivieri, a partner in the
private clients group in the New York office of White & Case
LLP. “Now, they’re giving us the due date without giving us the
form.”  In  the statement  released today in  Washington , the IRS said
it would make the forms and instructions for 2010 returns
available “early this fall.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net 
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  