-- 
IRS Won’t Impose Retroactive Ticket Tax on Airlines, Fliers

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   L i s a   C a r u s o
-- 
2011-08-05T19:35:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/irs-says-it-won-t-impose-retroactive-taxes-on-airlines-fliers.html
The  Internal Revenue Service  won’t
collect retroactive taxes for airline tickets purchased during a
lapse in the government’s taxing authority, agency spokesman
Frank Keith said.  President  Barack Obama  signed legislation today that ends a
partial shutdown of the  Federal Aviation Administration  and
reinstates the taxes retroactively to July 23, the day after
they expired. Most airlines had raised fares by the amount of
the taxes and didn’t charge the levy. The airlines weren’t
authorized to collect the tax, and going back and getting the
money now would be tough, Keith said.  “Administratively, it would be very difficult to collect
those taxes,” he said today in a telephone interview.  The levies, including a 7.5 percent fare tax on domestic
flights, generate about $28.6 million a day for the U.S.
government. The IRS decision means that the airlines will be
able to keep the revenue they generated by raising fares.  The airlines, including  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV) ,  Delta Air
Lines Inc. (DAL)  and  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC) , must begin collecting the
taxes by 12:01 a.m. Aug. 8, Keith said in a statement.  ‘Orderly Restart’  “The IRS intends to provide guidance to the airlines which
will allow for an orderly restart of the collection of ticket
taxes,” the statement said.  Because the law makes the taxes retroactive to July 23, no
taxpayers who flew during the shutdown and purchased their
airline tickets before that will be owed refunds, Keith said.
Before Congress broke an impasse over extending the taxes, the
IRS asked airlines to refund the tax payments to fliers.  The four top tax legislators in Congress had written to the
IRS, asking the agency not to retroactively collect the taxes.  “We encourage you to utilize all your discretion and
authority to extend relief for passengers and airlines with
respect to ticket taxes that were not paid or collected because
of the lapse and provide the industry a three-day period of time
to restart processes to collect the taxes,” they said in the
letter, dated yesterday.  The letter was written by the top two members of the Senate
Finance Committee, Democrat  Max Baucus  of Montana and Republican
 Orrin Hatch  of  Utah , and the top two members of the House Ways
and Means Committee, Republican  Dave Camp  and Democrat Sander Levin, both of  Michigan .  Tax Collection  The FAA’s authority to levy the 7.5 percent tax, as well as
other aviation taxes, lapsed on July 22. Had Congress not acted,
the total forgone taxes would have reached $1.3 billion by Sept.
7, when Congress is scheduled to return from its summer recess.  The Senate voted today to end the shutdown and reinstate
the FAA’s taxing authority through Sept. 16. That action
followed the House’s July 20 passage of the bill, which
reinstates the taxes as of July 23. Enactment of the legislation
was delayed because of disagreements between the House and
Senate over issues unrelated to the taxes.  In the letter, the tax-writing lawmakers told IRS
Commissioner Douglas Shulman that they are concerned about the
effect retroactive taxes would have on consumers and the  airline
industry .  “Furthermore, we understand that the IRS has limited
resources -- some of which will be required to restart systems
and processes to begin collecting these taxes again going
forward -- and that the retroactive collection of trust fund
taxes would add further strain to those resources,” they wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net 
Lisa Caruso in Washington at 
 lcaruso7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  