-- 
Italy to Eliminate Deficit in 2013 on With Faster Austerity Plan

-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 
2011-08-05T23:53:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/italy-to-eliminate-deficit-in-2013-on-with-faster-austerity-plan.html
Italy  plans to accelerate its
austerity and balance the budget ahead of schedule, Prime
Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  said, seeking to prevent the country
from becoming the next victim of Europe’s debt crisis as
investors flee Italian bonds.  The moves may pave the way for the  European Central Bank  to
try to bring down Italy’s borrowing costs by buying its bonds in
secondary markets. The European Central Bank said Aug. 4 it
would renew its bond-buying program.  “We are facing a very difficult situation in financial
markets that requires a coordinated intervention by various
states, above all the nations that share the euro,” Berlusconi
said.  Italy will adopt a balanced-budget amendment, liberalize
its labor market, and consider asset sales, Berlusconi and
Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti  said in a joint press
conference in  Rome  yesterday.  While yields on Italian and Spanish debt fell yesterday,
borrowing costs have surged since a July 21 European Union
summit approved a new aid plan for Greece and measures to aid
other euro-region countries before they need a bailout. The plan
failed to end contagion from Europe’s debt crisis to the euro
zone’s third- and fourth-largest economies.  Umberto Bossi , leader of Italy’s co-ruling Northern League
party, said the ECB will start buying Italian bonds on Aug. 8,
as part of an exchange for the new economic measures unveiled by
Italy’s government yesterday, Ansa newswire reported.  Record Yield  Italian 10-year bond yields are up 76 basis points since
the summit, while Spanish yields have gained 33 basis points.
The difference between the yield on 10-year Italian bonds and
similar German securities reached 416 basis points yesterday, a
record since the adoption of the single currency. The spread
ended the trading day at 374 basis points.  Berlusconi said he discussed with French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  the possibility of holding a meeting of Group of Seven
finance ministers within days.  A day after saying Italians shouldn’t be scared by the
slump in the nation’s stocks and bonds, Berlusconi announced the
new measures. To help with the plan to balance the budget in
2013, a year earlier than planned, the government will speed the
elimination of tax loopholes and deductions worth 25 billion
euros ($36 billion), originally set for 2013-2014.  Budget Balancing  “The budget balancing rule is merely a device to impose on
Italy pretty large and painful primary surpluses for many years
to come,” said Vladimir Pillonca, an economist at Societe
Generale SA in  London . “The temptation to dilute this mechanism
could increase in bad times, which is why it is important that
it’s embedded in the constitution for this rule to yield a
concrete credibility and fiscal benefit.”  Spanish borrowing costs are below those of Italy for the
first time since May 2010 on speculation Italy’s higher debt
load makes it less able to withstand contagion from the region’s
fiscal crisis. While Italy’s budget deficit of 4.6 percent of
gross domestic product last year was about half that of  Spain ’s,
the country’s debt at almost 120 percent of GDP, was twice
Spain’s level and second in the EU only to  Greece .  Total borrowing has remained above 100 percent of GDP since
1990 and investors have pushed the nation’s bond yields up on
concern that anemic growth will make it difficult to bring down
the debt level. The Italian economy lagged behind the euro-
region average every year for more than a decade. The economy
expanded 0.3 percent in the second quarter, the national
statistics office said yesterday, up from 0.1 percent in the
first three months when the euro region grew 0.8 percent.  Bond Slump  The slump in bonds has already translated into higher
borrowing costs and the Treasury priced 10-year bonds to yield
5.77 percent at the last auction on July 28, the highest in more
than 11 years. Italy still needs to sell about 80 billion euros
of bonds this year, UniCredit SpA estimates.  World stock markets have lost more than $4.4 trillion since
July 26 as speculation mounts that the global economy faces a
new recession that would deepen  Europe ’s debt woes. The Euro
Stock 600 Index fell 9.9 percent this week, its worst week since
November 2008. Italian banks, the biggest holder of the
government’s debts were among the biggest decliner. UniCredit
SpA, the biggest bank, shed 17 percent since July 26 and Banca
Intesa SpA lost almost 22 percent.  Tremonti spoke yesterday with U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy Geithner .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  