-- 
Gupta, UBS, Wells Fargo, BNY Mellon, SocGen in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-08-05T12:32:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/mizuho-rubicon-conocophillips-lehman-socgen-in-court-news.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission agreed to drop an administrative action against
former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. director Rajat Gupta, and he
pledged to dismiss a lawsuit claiming the regulatory proceeding
violated his constitutional rights.  “Mr. Gupta is very pleased that as a result of his lawsuit
the SEC has dismissed its administrative proceeding and he will
no longer be singled out for disparate treatment,”  Gary
Naftalis , his lawyer, said in a statement. “Mr. Gupta’s lawsuit
against the SEC has achieved all of the relief he sought.”  The SEC started an administrative proceeding in Washington
March 1, claiming Gupta passed inside information to Galleon
Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam about Goldman Sachs and
 Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , where Gupta was also on the board.  According to an agreement filed yesterday in federal court
in Manhattan, the SEC will file any future complaint against
Gupta in that court, where it would be heard by U.S. District
Judge Jed Rakoff.  “The staff is fully committed to the case and will proceed
as appropriate,” John Nester, an SEC spokesman, said in an e-
mail.  In the administrative proceeding, the SEC claimed Gupta
gave Rajaratnam information about Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s $5
billion investment in Goldman Sachs. The agency also alleges
Gupta told Rajaratnam about quarterly earnings of Goldman Sachs
and Procter & Gamble.  Gupta sued in the Manhattan court March 18, claiming the
agency violated his rights by pursuing an administrative action
rather than a lawsuit in federal court, where Gupta would have
more procedural protections, including the right to have the
case considered by a jury and the use of federal rules of
evidence.  The SEC administrative proceeding is In the Matter of Rajat
K. Gupta, 3-14279, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
(Washington). The court case is Gupta v. SEC, 11-cv-01900, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  New Suits  Ex-UBS Banker Helped Hide $215 Million From IRS, U.S. Says  Ex- UBS AG (UBS)  banker Gian Gisler was charged with conspiring to
help at least 38 U.S. clients use Swiss banks to hide more than
$215 million from the Internal Revenue Service.  Gisler, 45, aided clients using sham entities to hide
assets in undeclared accounts, including one valued at $43.3
million, another worth $42.7 million and a third with $19.7
million, according to an indictment in federal court in
Manhattan.  “From the mid-1990s through at least 2010, Gisler
allegedly conspired with various U.S. taxpayers and others to
ensure that his clients could hide their Swiss bank accounts and
the income they generated from the IRS,” according to a
statement by U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara.  Gisler worked at UBS from the mid-1990s until 2008, when a
U.S. probe of the bank intensified. UBS, the largest Swiss bank,
was charged in 2009 with helping Americans evade taxes. The bank
avoided prosecution by paying $780 million, admitting it helped
Americans evade taxes and turning over data on 250 secret
accounts. It later handed over data on another 4,450 accounts.  After 2008, Gisler worked at a Swiss asset-management firm,
helping to move accounts of his U.S. clients from UBS to other
Swiss banks, according to the indictment.  In mid-2009, that firm began to stop helping U.S. taxpayers
keep accounts hidden from the IRS, “which again made it, as a
practical matter, impossible for Gisler to conduct his usual
business of assisting U.S. taxpayers in maintaining undeclared
accounts,” according to the indictment.  He then joined a second asset-management firm, transferring
his client accounts to help keep those assets undeclared,
according to the indictment.  The case is U.S. v. Gisler, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Wells Fargo Sued by Borrowers Over Reverse-Mortgage Policies  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  is ignoring federal rules on reverse
mortgages and forcing homes into foreclosure instead of giving
heirs a chance to buy them, according to a lawsuit.  Estates and surviving spouses have the right to purchase
properties at 95 percent of appraised value after the death of a
borrower who took out a federally-insured reverse mortgage,
lawyers for a California man said in the complaint filed Aug. 3
in federal court in  San Francisco .  Wells Fargo hasn’t been notifying heirs of this right and
has been starting foreclosures if demands aren’t met for
repayment of the full mortgage balance, according to the
complaint filed by the son of a California homeowner. The
plaintiff, Robert Chandler, also sued the Federal National
Mortgage Association, or Fannie Mae.  “Wells Fargo’s actions are not just wrong, they are
economically irrational,” Michael Ng, Chandler’s attorney, said
yesterday in a statement. “Even though elderly borrowers paid
for insurance that protects the bank against the downturn in the
housing market, Wells Fargo insists on evicting family members
from homes that will go unsold and unoccupied.”  The lawsuit, brought as a class action by Chandler on
behalf of himself and other heirs, seeks a court order stopping
foreclosures and evictions in affected homes and damages for
breach of contract.  Wells Fargo is “reviewing” the complaint and “will
reserve comment,” Vickee Adams, a spokeswoman for the San
Francisco-based company, said yesterday.  The case is Chandler v. Wells Fargo & Co., 11-cv-03831,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (San
Francisco).  Ex-Mizuho Investment Banker Charged With Insider Trading  Thomas Ammann, a former investment banker at Mizuho
International Plc, and two women were charged with insider
trading in shares of  OCE NV (OCE)  prior to the Dutch printing-
equipment maker being acquired.  Ammann, 38, and Jessica Mang, a 28-year-old London
chiropractor, were charged last week. Christina Weckwerth, a 42-
year-old student in Germany, was charged this morning at a
London court, the U.K. Financial Services Authority said.  A German national living in London, Ammann faces three
counts of insider dealing, Weckwerth two counts and Mang one
count. Ammann and Weckwerth were also charged with money
laundering, and the ex-banker faces two counts of encouraging
insider dealing.  The charges relate to trading in OCE shares between
February and November 2009, the FSA said. Tokyo-based imaging
company Canon Inc. agreed to buy OCE in a 730 million-euro
($1.04 billion) deal in November 2009. Mizuho acted as the
financial adviser to Canon on the acquisition, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Mizuho said in a statement the FSA hasn’t alleged any
wrongdoing by the bank and no actions are being taken against
it. “The transactions to which the charges relate were executed
by the individual in his personal capacity and were not done
through, or processed by, Mizuho International,” the bank said.  The trio were released on bail and are scheduled to appear
again before a London judge on Aug. 23. Ammann’s lawyer, Shaul
Brazil, and Mang’s lawyer, Romana Khan, both declined to
comment. A lawyer for Weckwerth at  Addleshaw Goddard LLP 
couldn’t immediately be reached.  For more, click here.  Rubicon Sues Ex-Managers for Trying to Start New Firm  Rubicon Fund Management LLP said it sued two former money
managers, saying they conspired to start a new firm while one of
them was still working at the London-based hedge fund.  Timothy Attias and Santiago Alarco violated their
responsibility to the company and partnership contracts, Rubicon
said in a statement released yesterday. The suit, which was
filed in London, seeks damages and an order delaying the start
up of their new fund, the statement said.  “The allegations are completely and utterly baseless, and
they will be proven as such,” Attias said in an interview
yesterday. A phone number for Alarco couldn’t be located.  Attias and Alarco co-managed Rubicon’s Global Fund, a so-
called macro hedge fund that trades currencies,  interest rates 
and bonds to try to take advantage of broad economic trends.
Attias quit in January and Alarco left in April. Rubicon’s
assets under management declined by about 81 percent to $288
million from $1.6 billion at the end of 2010, according to two
people with knowledge of the situation who declined to be named
because the numbers aren’t publicly disclosed.  Attias is now a director at SATA Asset Management Ltd.,
according to a certificate of incorporation filed with the
U.K.’s Companies House on June 9. Alarco’s name doesn’t appear
on the SATA filing.  Catherine Cripps, who previously worked this year at
Zurich-based GAM Holding AG, is also listed as a SATA director.
Cripps is also a defendant, Rubicon said. A spokeswoman for GAM,
which has been an investor in Rubicon, declined to provide
contact details for Cripps.  Attias, is “starting the process” of opening an
investment company, Attias said. The firm isn’t managing any
money and doesn’t have any offices, he said.  For more, click here.  ConocoPhillips (COP)  Investor Says Pay Plan Forgoes Tax Deductions  ConocoPhillips, the third-largest U.S. oil company, was
sued by an investor who claimed its executive compensation plan
doesn’t comply with tax regulations that allow for deductions.  The plan, which sets maximum pay limits for executives at
$400 million a year in stock and cash, doesn’t let the company
take a tax deduction for compensation greater than $1 million,
according to the complaint filed Aug. 2 in federal court in
Wilmington, Delaware, by Robert Freedman, who said he has held
shares in the company since December.  “The board’s payment of compensation that is not tax
deductible constitutes waste,” Freedman said in the complaint.  The U.S. Internal Revenue Code imposes the $1 million
threshold for company chief executives and the four highest paid
officers, with exemptions for performance-based pay, according
to the complaint. Houston-based Conoco’s performance goals are
too vague and don’t adhere standards set by the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission to qualify, according to the complaint.  Company directors misled investors about the plan in a
proxy statement that failed to make proper disclosures before a
shareholder vote in May, Freedman alleges. The plan was approved
by about 59 percent of the votes cast, according to the
complaint.  Freedman is seeking a court order barring awards and
payments under the plan as well as unspecified damages on behalf
of the company.  “We do not comment on litigation,” said Aftab Ahmed, a
ConocoPhillips spokesman, in an e-mailed message.  The case is Freedman v. Mulva, 11-00686, U.S. District
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  BNY Mellon Accused of Violating Law in Trustee Role  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  was accused by New York’s
attorney general of violated state law in its role representing
investors in mortgage securities created by  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) ’s Countrywide Financial unit.  BNY Mellon should pay penalties and restitution to
investors, Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  said yesterday in
a court filing involving Bank of America’s proposed $8.5 billion
mortgage-bond settlement. Schneiderman, who said he has
“potential claims” against Bank of America, called the
settlement unfair to investors and asked a judge to reject it.  “The proposed cash payment is far less than the massive
losses investors have faced and will continue to face,”
Schneiderman said in the filing in state court in Manhattan.  Under the proposed deal, which requires court approval,
Bank of America would pay $8.5 billion to resolve claims from
investors who wanted the Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank to
buy back loans that were packaged into bonds. The agreement was
reached with 22 institutional investors and BNY Mellon, which
acts as the trustee for the mortgage-securitization trusts.  BNY Mellon’s conduct as trustee violated the state’s Martin
Act by misleading investors, Schneiderman said in court papers
filed yesterday.  Schneiderman claims New York-based BNY Mellon was aware of
“loan documentation deficiencies,” such as Countrywide’s
improper assignments and transfers of notes needed for
foreclosures, and that knowledge triggered a “heightened duty”
to bondholders, he said.  “The allegations by the New York Attorney General are
outrageous, baseless, unsupported by fact and law and we will
fight them if necessary in court,” Ron Gruendl, a BNY Mellon
spokesman, said in an e-mail.  “We are confident that we have fulfilled in all respects
our responsibilities as trustee,” Gruendl said. “The AG’s
action is misguided and fails to comprehend the role of the
trustee and the benefit the settlement would provide to
investors.”  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for Bank of America, declined
to comment.  The case is In the matter of Bank of New York Mellon,
651786/2011, New York State Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  Lehman, Hong Kong Liquidators Resolve $20 Billion of Claims  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  said it settled $20 billion
of intercompany claims with liquidators for Lehman Hong Kong and
won the affiliate’s support for its liquidation plan.  Details of the agreement, which is subject to court
approval in the U.S. and Hong Kong, weren’t provided in Lehman’s
statement Aug. 2.  Edward Middleton, a partner at KPMG China and one of the
Hong Kong liquidators, said that the settlement will benefit
creditors by speeding liquidations.  A final reconciliation of claims related to derivatives
positions should be reached within 60 days, he said Aug. 3.  Lehman is gathering support for a $65 billion liquidation
plan. It said last month that creditors holding more than $100
billion in claims signed their support for the company’s latest
payout plan, which allots more money to a group including
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and less to bondholders including
Paulson & Co.  The compromise reached, after contentious battles with
creditors, by Lehman Chief Executive Officer Bryan Marsal and
negotiators including lawyer Lori Fife of Weil Gotshal & Manges
LLP, Lehman’s bankruptcy law firm, ends the threat of
“protracted litigation” over the plan, Lehman said in a
statement in July.  Lehman aims to confirm its plan by year end and start
distributing a “significant” amount of its $21 billion in
available cash shortly after, Fife said.  Kimberly Macleod, a spokeswoman for New York-based Lehman,
didn’t immediately return an e-mail seeking comment after
regular business hours yesterday.  Lehman’s eight Hong Kong units have about $24 billion of
assets and claims totaling more than $36 billion on their books,
Middleton said Aug. 3. That included about 2,500 listed equity
investments and more than 2,700 derivative trades when KPMG took
over in September 2008, he said.  Lehman filed for bankruptcy in 2008 with assets of $639
billion.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here. For the latest trial
and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  MGA Wins $225 Million in Punitive Damages, Fees Against Mattel  MGA Entertainment Inc., maker of Bratz dolls, won $225
million in punitive damages, attorney fees and costs from  Mattel
Inc. (MAT) , bringing the total award in the trial over the doll’s
origins to $310 million.  U.S. District Judge David Carter in Santa Ana, California,
yesterday awarded MGA $85 million in punitive damages and $2.5
million in fees and costs for its trade-secret theft claims
against Mattel. The judge separately awarded MGA about $137
million in fees and costs for having to defend against Mattel’s
copyright-infringement claims.  “Mattel asserted a copyright claim that was stunning in
scope and unreasonable in relief it requested,” Carter said.
“The claim imperiled free expression, competition, and the only
serious competitor Mattel had faced in the fashion doll market
in nearly 50 years.”  The jury in April agreed with closely held MGA that Mattel
stole its trade secrets when company employees got into MGA’s
showrooms at toy fairs using phony business cards. The jurors
awarded MGA $3.4 million for each of the 26 instances in which
they found that Mattel had misappropriated a trade secret.
Carter yesterday reduced the jury award to $85 million.  The jury rejected a claim that MGA stole Mattel’s trade
secrets in 2000 when it made an agreement with  Carter Bryant , a
toy designer. Mattel said Bryant was working for it when he came
up with the idea for the Bratz dolls and made the first
sketches. The jury also rejected claims that the pouty
multiethnic dolls, which MGA started selling in 2001, violated
Mattel’s copyright.  “This is a step in the right direction to right the wrongs
of Mattel’s criminal acts towards MGA,”  Isaac Larian , MGA’s
chief executive officer, said in an e-mailed statement. “We
will now pursue our antitrust case against Mattel and its CEO
Bob Eckert in order to get fully compensated for the damages
Mattel has caused MGA, MGA’s employees and the Bratz brand.”  In a separate ruling yesterday, Carter denied Mattel’s
request for a new trial or for a ruling that the evidence
presented didn’t support the jury’s trade-secret
misappropriation verdict.  MGA, based in Van Nuys, California, said in a May 6 fee
request that Barbie-doll maker Mattel set out to destroy most of
the value of its business and succeeded.  Mattel, based in El Segundo, California, asked the judge to
reject the request for legal costs, saying its copyright-
infringement claims were “objectively reasonable.”  Lisa Marie Bongiovanni, a Mattel spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately return a call to her office yesterday.  The case is Bryant v. Mattel, 04-09049, U.S. District
Court, Central District of California (Santa Ana).  For more, click here.  Societe Generale (GLE)  Suit Alleging Theft of Secrets Is Dismissed  Societe Generale SA agreed to dismiss a suit in which it
claimed a former foreign-exchange trader misappropriated trade
secrets before leaving the bank.  In a May 17 complaint in Manhattan federal court, the bank
sought an order to force the ex-employee, Karma Tenzing, to
return what it claimed was confidential material.  Tenzing “systematically sent to his home and to third
parties confidential SG trade secrets about client trades and
contacts, procedures, personal data, client identities, and
business P&L information,” the bank alleged in the complaint.  Tenzing, described by Societe Generale as a junior
salesman, offered the information to his employer-to-be,  Credit
Agricole SA (ACA) , according to Societe Generale.  Tenzing said in a court filing that he didn’t provide a
person at Credit Agricole “with a customer list as SocGen
alleges.” He provided the names of two friends as references
and “a generic list of mostly hedge funds and banks which trade
widely in the industry,” he said.  “I have no intention of using the materials competitively
and am trying to return them to SocGen,” Tenzing said in the
May 23 filing.  Other documents he was accused of taking weren’t
confidential or he sent home for his own use, he said.  Both sides agreed to dismissal of the suit, according to
court papers filed July 7. The dismissal came after the Paris-
based bank told U.S. District Judge George Daniels May 26 that
the parties had reached “a settlement in principle” and were
completing an agreement.  Settlement terms weren’t disclosed.  Mitchell Cohen, Tenzing’s lawyer, didn’t reply to a voice-
mail message yesterday. Andrez Carberry, a lawyer for Societe
Generale reached by telephone yesterday, declined to comment on
the dismissal of the suit. Anne-Sophie Gentil, a spokeswoman for
Credit Agricole, didn’t immediately reply to a voice-mail
message yesterday seeking comment on the Societe Generale
allegations.  The case is  Societe Generale v. Tenzing, 11-cv-3366, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  VeriFone Cleared to Buy Hypercom in Settlement With U.S.  VeriFone Systems Inc. (PAY)  reached a settlement with the U.S.
Justice Department that will let it acquire rival  Hypercom Corp. 
on the condition it sells Hypercom’s U.S. point-of-sale terminal
business.  An agreement with the Justice Department filed yesterday
 specifies  that private equity firm  Gores Group LLC  will buy the
terminals business. The U.S. sued to block the $485 million deal
on concerns that combining VeriFone and Hypercom would hinder
competition in the market for the retail checkout terminals, the
Justice Department said in an e-mailed  statement .  The proposed divestment “ensures that competition will
remain in point-of-sale terminals markets,”  Christine Varney ,
head of the Justice Department’s Antitrust Division, said in the
statement. The sale “will create an independent and significant
competitor in the United States, both right now and into the
future,” she said.  Businesses use point-of-sale terminals to accept electronic
payments such as credit and debit cards.  VeriFone , based in San
Jose, California, is the second-largest maker of electronic-
payment equipment. Hypercom, based in Scottsdale, Arizona, is
No. 3, according to a Justice Department filing made with the
settlement.  Together, the two companies control more than 60 percent of
the U.S. market for terminals used by the largest retailers,
according to the Justice Department. Ingenico SA, based in
France, is the biggest maker of card-payment terminals.  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Ex-Wall Street Lawyer Pleads Guilty to Federal Tax Charges  John J. O’Brien, a former lawyer at Sullivan & Cromwell LLP
specializing in corporate mergers and acquisitions, pleaded
guilty to charges he failed to pay income taxes.  O’Brien, 48, of Caroga Lake in the foothills of New York’s
Adirondack Mountains, was charged in a misdemeanor criminal
information Aug. 3 in federal court in Manhattan. He entered his
plea yesterday before U.S. Magistrate Judge Henry Pitman and was
released on a $100,000 personal recognizance bond with a week to
secure a co-signer.  O’Brien earned about $10.8 million in partnership income
for the tax years 2001 to 2008 and failed to file a federal tax
return for each of those years, the government said. He used the
unreported income to pay for personal expenses, including the
purchase of a weekend home, funding of a rare-books business,
Hudson Street Books, and international travel, prosecutors said.  “John O’Brien went to work every day at a prestigious law
firm where he advised clients on how to comply with the law at
the same time that he was knowingly breaking it,” Manhattan
U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said in a statement. “He thumbed
his nose at the IRS to fund an even more lavish lifestyle than
his generous income permitted.”  O’Brien, a 1992 graduate of New York University Law School,
made more than $3 million in capital contributions to the rare-
books business from 2004 to 2008 instead of paying income tax
liabilities that totaled more than $2.5 million, prosecutors
said.  O’Brien was charged with two counts of willful failure to
file U.S. individual income tax returns and two counts of
willful failure to pay tax. He pleaded guilty to all four and
faces as much as one year in prison on each count at sentencing,
which is scheduled for Nov. 16 before Pitman.  O’Brien agreed to pay no less than $2.8 million in
restitution, representing the full amount of taxes and interest
due to the Internal Revenue Service for the tax years 2001 to
2008, prosecutors said in a plea agreement. He has paid about
$800,000 to the IRS, said his attorney, Russell Neufeld, during
yesterday’s hearing.  Neufeld declined to comment after the hearing. Karen Braun,
a spokeswoman for Sullivan & Cromwell, declined to comment on
the charges before yesterday’s plea.  The case is U.S. vs. O’Brien, 11-cr-0652, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  