-- 
Japan May Have Spent Record Amount in Intervention to Rein In Stronger Yen

-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   S a b u r o   F u n a b i k i
-- 
2011-08-05T15:22:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/japan-weakening-yen-may-have-cost-record-amount-as-more-intervention-looms.html
Japan  may have spent a record amount
intervening to stem the yen’s gains on Aug. 4, based on
projection of deposits held by financial institutions at the
Bank of Japan.  The central bank estimated that deposits climbed to a total
32.3 trillion yen ($412 billion), it said in a statement
released yesterday in Tokyo. The figure suggests that the
government sold about 4.5 trillion yen, a record, to prevent the
currency from strengthening to a post-World War II high,
according to Yuichi Takahashi, market economist at Totan
Research Co., a money-market brokerage in Tokyo.  Japan followed  Switzerland  in seeking to stem appreciating
exchange rates this week, selling the yen and pledging to inject
10 trillion yen in liquidity. Japanese Finance Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda  said yesterday he will continue to watch the
market, as the currency rebounded from its post-intervention
low.  The latest yen sales may herald “an extended period of
interventions,” David Rea, Japan economist at Capital Economics
Ltd., said from  London  yesterday. “The intervention hasn’t
really made a great deal of difference in the value of the yen
because of the underlying factors -- fundamentally risk aversion
and safe haven demand.”  The yen was at 78.65 per dollar as of 1:24 p.m. yesterday
in London, after falling to as low as 80.24 on Aug. 4. It traded
as strong as 76.30 on Aug. 1, nearing the postwar high of 76.25
reached in March after the earthquake and tsunami.  Masaaki Kanno, chief economist at JPMorgan Securities Japan
Co., also said in a report yesterday that an intervention amount
of about 4.56 trillion yen would be a “good guess,” based on
looking at deposits at the  Bank of Japan .  In its prior record intervention, Japan sold 2.125 trillion
yen on Sept. 15, 2010.  ‘Disorderly Movements’  “We intervened to restrain speculative and disorderly
movements -- it wasn’t targeted at a level,” Noda told
reporters in Tokyo yesterday, adding that officials will
continue to take “appropriate” measures when necessary. “We
must closely watch the currency market, but with the big drops
in the Dow, I’d like to closely monitor the stock market today
as well.”  The move was a surprise because it preceded yesterday’s
U.S. unemployment report, next week’s  Federal Reserve  policy
meeting and  Standard & Poor’s  decision whether to cut the AAA
American sovereign-debt grade -- all of which pose risks for the
 currency market , Masafumi Yamamoto, chief currency strategist in
Tokyo at  Barclays Capital , wrote in a note. The timing
“suggests that the MOF intends to take action repeatedly,” he
wrote.  Corporate leaders advocated a sustained effort to halt the
yen’s gains, which threaten to undermine exporters’ earnings and
force manufacturers to move factory jobs abroad.  ‘Damaging Effect’  “The current exchange rate is at a level that has an
extremely damaging effect on the Japanese economy -- I welcome
today’s intervention, but the resulting exchange rate won’t be
at an acceptable level post-intervention,” Mitsubishi Motors
Corp. President Osamu Masuko said in an e-mailed response to
questions on Aug. 4. “The yen will continue to be strong, and
we ask for appropriate measures to be taken quickly.”  Nissan Motor Co.’s chief operating officer, Toshiyuki Shiga, said yesterday he wants to see additional efforts toward
“stabilizing” the yen.  The Bank of Japan added 10 trillion yen of monetary
stimulus measures this week, including a 5 trillion yen
expansion of an asset-purchase fund that’s mainly government
debt, and a similar widening of a program aimed at encouraging
banks to lend.  Restoring Growth  Japan’s immediate challenge is restoring growth after the
March 11 disaster that left more than 20,000 people dead or
missing, shuttered factories and devastated towns in the
northeast.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  and opposition lawmakers have yet
to forge a path toward passage of a bill to rebuild after the
March 11 disaster caused 16.9 trillion yen of damage.  Kan has implemented two supplementary budgets totaling 6
trillion yen to contend with spending needs including emergency
housing for the displaced. A third package may come in at 10
trillion yen, ruling party officials have said.  Opposition lawmakers have demanded that Kan resign before
considering the reconstruction bill, blaming him for showing
insufficient leadership after the quake. Kan has declined to
specify a departure date.  The government is postponing the compiling of next year’s
budget by a month to focus on rebuilding efforts, Noda told
reporters in  Tokyo  yesterday. The  finance ministry  usually
accepts spending requests from other agencies in August.  Economists are counting on the reconstruction to turn the
economy around in the second half of the year. Gross domestic
product contracted at a 2.6 percent annual pace in the second
quarter, a government report may show Aug. 15, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net ;
Saburo Funabiki in Tokyo at 
 sfunabiki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net 
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  