-- 
Japan Promotes Shipyard Mergers on Chinese, Korean Competition

-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 
2011-08-05T02:34:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/japan-promotes-shipyard-mergers-to-cope-with-chinese-korean-competition.html
Japan , dethroned as the world’s
biggest shipbuilding nation over the past decade, is promoting
mergers among local shipyards to help compete with China and
 South Korea .  The Maritime Bureau, which oversees the industry, is
surveying companies to help find potential combinations,
Director-General Norifumi Idee said yesterday in an interview in
Tokyo. He declined to name any possible tie-ups.  “Japanese yards need to invest in research and
development,” he said. “By merging operations, it will be
easier to do that.”  Japanese yards need to grow in size and develop new
technologies as they have lost market share to larger
shipbuilders overseas, he said. China has become the world’s
biggest shipbuilding nation, a title previously held for decades
by Japan, on the back of  government investment  and low wages.  The stronger yen has also prompted merger talks among
Japanese shipbuilders, as the currency makes their vessels more
expensive. Most Japanese-made ships are sold in dollars.  JFE
Holdings Inc. (5411) , Japan’s second-largest steelmaker, and  IHI Corp. (7013) 
are holding talks on combining their shipbuilding operations.
The deal could be expanded to include other yards, Shinjiro Mishima, head of JFE’s shipyard unit, said in March.  Japanese shipyards are investing fuel-saving technologies
to lure customers.  Imabari Shipbuilding Co. , the country’s
largest shipyard, for instance, has developed a hybrid fin that
is attached behind a ship’s propeller and helps channel the flow
of water to the rudder. That cuts fuel use by as much as 6
percent.  Japanese shipyards had a backlog of 71.3 million deadweight
tons of orders as of May 1, compared with 143.4 million for
South Korea and 184.7 million for  China , according to shipbroker
Clarkson Plc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Cooper in 東京 at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  