-- 
Japan Detains Two Chinese Ship Captains in Move That May Rekindle Tensions

-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 
2011-08-05T11:51:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/japan-detains-two-chinese-ship-captains-in-move-that-may-rekindle-tensions.html
Japan ’s coast guard said it arrested
two Chinese sea captains for operating in an exclusive economic
zone on the coast of Ishikawa prefecture without permission.  The coast guard is now inspecting the shipping vessels, the
authority said today in a faxed statement to Bloomberg News,
without giving further details.  China ’s ships have flared up tensions with both Japan and
the Philippines over the last year. Today’s arrests come a year
after the detention of a Chinese fishing trawler in the  East
China Sea  erupted into a political standoff between the two
nations, triggering a change in Japan’s defense strategy.  China claims most of the  South China Sea  and says any
attempt to drill or fish in the waters is a violation of its
sovereignty. Chinese vessels in May sliced cables of a survey
ship doing work for  Vietnam , the second such incident in a month.
In March, Chinese ships chased away a vessel working for U.K.-
based Forum Energy Plc off the Philippines.  The Philippines Foreign Affairs Secretary Albert del
Rosario said in a speech today that China’s South China Sea
claims “potentially threaten freedom of navigation.”  Japan expressed mounting concern over China’s expanding
naval reach this week, saying in the government’s annual defense
report that it expects the rising maritime power’s ships to
become commonplace near its waters. The nation has shifted its
defense focus to China from Russia and said it would deploy
troops to its southwestern islands, moving personnel and tanks
from northern areas.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor on this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net ; 