-- 
Japan Blackout Risk Eases on Cooler Weather

-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 
2011-08-05T04:09:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/japan-blackout-risk-eases-as-cooler-weather-reduces-power-demand.html
Japan’s cities and industries may be
saved from power blackouts this summer as energy-saving measures
combined with cooler-than-expected temperatures reduce
electricity demand.  Companies including  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and Panasonic Corp.
were bracing for power cuts this summer because of nuclear plant
closures following the disaster at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s
Fukushima plant. Industries in parts of Japan were ordered to
cut consumption by 15 percent starting July 1 to help cope with
expected shortages, while households were asked to regulate use
of air conditioners.  Instead, cooler weather has helped utilities cope with
demand even as generating capacity fell when the government
postponed the restart of nuclear reactors unaffected by the
March 11 earthquake and tsunami that hit Fukushima, said Yuji Nishiyama, a Tokyo-based analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG.  “Right now, utilities are able to supply enough
electricity,” Nishiyama said by phone yesterday. “However, a
single problem at a 1,000-megawatt thermal plant may easily
reduce the margin and, given that risk, the government is
unlikely to lift the power savings measures.”  Thirty-eight of  Japan ’s 54 atomic reactors remain offline
after the magnitude-9 earthquake triggered the worst nuclear
crisis since Chernobyl. Mandatory maintenance every 13 months
would also mean that just 13 may be operating this month,
according to data from the  Japan Nuclear Technology Institute .  Temperature Drop  Tokyo Electric, Japan’s largest utility known as Tepco,
says power cuts may be necessary if peak demand reaches 97
percent of its daily capacity. Since energy-saving started on
July 1, the highest percentage of capacity reached was 88.3
percent on July 11, according to data from the company. The peak
forecast temperature that day was 32 degrees Celsius, according
to  Weathernews Inc. (4825)   Temperatures dropped over the latter part of the month as
the jet stream pushed colder high pressure from the north into
eastern Japan, resulting in lower-than-average readings in the
capital, Hajime Takayama, a forecaster at the  Japan
Meteorological Agency , said in a phone interview yesterday.  The average temperature in Otemachi, Tokyo’s financial
district, was 25.1 degrees Celsius (77.2 degrees Fahrenheit)
over the last 10 days of July, 1.9 degrees lower than the 30-
year average, Takayama said.  Tepco forecast peak demand to reach 55,000 megawatts
through the month of August compared with a forecast capacity of
56,100 megawatts at the end of the month, the company said in a
statement on July 29. The forecast takes into account plans to
idle two reactors with a total capacity of 2,456 megawatts at
its Kashiwazaki-Kariwa nuclear plant, located about 215
kilometers (134 miles) west of the crippled Fukushima station.  Precautions  Some Japanese manufacturers have taken measures to prevent
energy shortages disrupting production.  Carmakers including Toyota, Honda Motor Co. and Nissan
Motor Co. are closing their domestic plants on Thursdays and
Fridays and operating during weekends from July to September,
the Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association said.  Panasonic Corp. (6752) , Japan’s largest maker of home appliances,
is adding power generators at five factories and offices in
areas supplied by either Tepco or Tohoku Electric, Machiko
Miyai, a director in charge of environmental affairs, told
reporters on June 30. Some of the company’s domestic offices are
shifting operation hours to earlier than usual and urging some
employees to work from home to save power, she said.  Moving Away  Others companies including Sharp Corp. and Mitsui Mining &
Smelting Co., Japan’s biggest zinc smelter, plan to move
production abroad because of concern that nuclear plants will
remain closed as the Japanese government explores renewable
alternatives such as wind and solar power.  The government is moving to ease the burden on
manufacturers in northern areas affected by the earthquake by
relaxing power-saving targets, the Nikkei newspaper reported
yesterday. The target may be lowered to 10 percent from 15
percent in Iwate, Miyagi and Fukushima prefectures, all served
by Tohoku Electric Power Co., the newspaper said.  Tohoku Electric’s capacity has been reduced by the closure
of its Onagawa and Higashidori nuclear stations.  Since the March 11 earthquake and tsunami caused the
biggest radiation fallout in 25 years, utilities in Japan have
scrambled to find oil and natural gas for thermal  power plants .
Liquefied natural gas imports climbed 11 percent to 6.23 million
metric tons from a year earlier in June while crude oil imports
gained 1.9 percent to about 15.4 million kiloliters, official
data show.  Being Prepared  The day after Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  asked Chubu Electric
Power Co. on May 6 to idle its Hamaoka nuclear power plant
because of safety concerns, the utility’s chairman, Toshio Mita,
flew to Qatar to hold talks on additional gas supplies. On May 9
Chubu Electric said it would shut the plant, forcing the company
to buy an extra 4 million metric tons of LNG on top of 8.42
million tons planned for the year ending March 2012.  “It may be true that utilities overestimated summer
electricity demand,” Credit Suisse’s Nishiyama said. “It would
be worse if they weren’t prepared for a hot summer assuming that
temperatures would be cool. From a supply side perspective, it’s
rational for utilities to assume maximum demand.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in  Tokyo  at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at   plangan@bloomberg.net . 