-- 
Kazakh KASE Index World’s Worst-Hit as Bank, Metal Stocks Drop

-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 
2011-08-05T13:11:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/kazakh-kase-index-world-s-worst-hit-as-bank-metal-stocks-drop.html
Kazakh stocks tumbled the most
worldwide, sending the benchmark index to the lowest level since
September 2009, on concern the global economic recovery is
faltering.  Kazakhstan’s KASE index of seven stocks sank 7 percent to
1,338.25 at 2 p.m. in London, the most since February 2009,
making central  Asia ’s biggest oil producer the worst performer
of 91 benchmark indexes tracked by Bloomberg worldwide.  Eurasian Natural Resources Corp, a metals producer, and
Halyk Savings Bank, the second-largest lender by assets, both
sank 12 percent, accounting for more than 50 percent of today’s
losses in the KASE. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index, a gauge of
shares from 21  developing countries , sank the most in more than
a year as speculation deepened that  Europe ’s debt crisis and
weak U.S. economic data may lead to a global recession.  “Plummeting global risk appetite” was driving down the
country’s stocks,  Lars Christensen , chief emerging-market
analyst at Danske Bank A/S in Copenhagen, said in a phone
interview today. “If you can find any stock exchange in the
world today that is not going down, we’d be really lucky.”  Kazakhmys Plc, the country’s biggest copper producer,
declined 9.9 percent as copper decreased 1.8 percent in  London .
Kazkommertsbank, an Almaty-based lender, dropped 5.7 percent.  The KASE has lost 13 percent in four days, sending the
gauge down 30 percent from this year’s peak on Feb. 8. The
measure tumbled 66 percent within five months after the collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008 fueled a
global credit crisis and the world slipped into recession.  The financial crisis led four Kazakh banks to default on
their debts and BTA Bank, then the country’s largest lender, to
be taken over by the state’s National Wellbeing Fund Samruk-
Kazyna.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London on 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  