-- 
Kirin Cuts Annual Profit Forecast as Quake Damps Beer Demand

-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a
-- 
2011-08-05T07:31:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/kirin-cuts-annual-profit-forecast-as-quake-damps-beer-demand-1-.html
Kirin Holdings Co.,  Japan ’s biggest
beverage maker by market value, reduced its forecast for profit
this year as the March 11 magnitude-9 earthquake and ensuing
tsunami trims demand for beer.  Net income will probably be 52 billion yen ($662 million)
in the 12 months ending Dec. 31, compared with an earlier
estimate of 58 billion yen, according to a statement from the
Tokyo-based brewer today. The company took a one-time charge of
16.9 billion yen in the six months ended June 30 for cost
related to the March 11 earthquake.  The brewer and its biggest Japanese rival, Asahi Group
Holdings Ltd., are seeking to buy overseas beverage makers after
reporting second-quarter sales drops and as stagnant wages and a
declining population erode demand. Kirin, which controls
 Australia ’s Lion Nathan Pty, paid 3.95 billion reais ($2.5
billion) on Aug. 2 to gain control of Schincariol Participacoes
e Representacoes SA,  Brazil ’s second-biggest beermaker.  “The company cut its sales forecast as the earthquake
damped demand and there was a change in the environment in
Australia,” Kirin President Senji Miyake told reporters today
in Tokyo.  Kirin, Japan’s No. 2 brewer by volume, dropped 2.6 percent
to 1,027 yen at the 3 p.m. close in Tokyo, before earnings were
announced. The stock is down 9.8 percent this year, extending a
drop of 24 percent last year. The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average fell
3.7 percent today.  Lower Sales Forecast  Sales will probably be 2.11 trillion yen this year,
compared with an earlier forecast for 2.18 trillion yen,
according to Kirin’s statement.  In the Schincariol deal, Kirin paid more than double the
7.87 median of eight beverage deals in emerging markets over the
past year, according to its presentation documents and data
compiled by Bloomberg. The Tokyo-based brewer got about 77
percent of revenue from Japan last year.  Kirin said the brewer will use its technology and marketing
to help boost annual sales of Schincariol, also Brazil’s third-
largest soda maker, by 10 percent on average.  Asahi and Suntory Holdings Ltd. may be among those bidding
for Independent Liquor, the New Zealand beverage maker
controlled by buyout firms, the Wall Street Journal reported
earlier this week, citing people it didn’t identify.  A strengthening yen, which hit a postwar record of 76.25 to
the dollar in March, also boosts Japanese companies’ buying
power abroad.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shunichi Ozasa in  Tokyo  at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net 
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net  