-- 
Kroenke Backs Arsenal’s $65 Million Valuation of Fabregas: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-08-05T06:09:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/kroenke-backs-arsenal-s-65-million-valuation-of-fabregas-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Kroenke Backs Wenger  Arsenal’s majority shareholder Stan Kroenke yesterday
backed manager  Arsene Wenger ’s 40 million-pound ($65 million)
valuation of Cesc Fabregas, the Independent  reported .  Wenger was given Kroenke’s support to hold his position in
any negotiations with Barcelona over the potential transfer of
the Spanish midfielder, who was included in the squad for
tomorrow’s exhibition match against Benfica in Lisbon, the
Independent added.  Cole to Paris  Liverpool midfielder  Joe Cole  is a target for French club
Paris Saint-Germain, which will try to get him on a free
transfer, the Sun  reported .  Cole, whose future at Anfield under manager  Kenny Dalglish 
is in doubt, has told friends he is ready to move abroad if a
switch to a leading Premier League club doesn’t happen, the
Sun added.  Lucas for Lucas  Liverpool is considering Argentina midfielder Lucas Biglia
as a possible replacement for Lucas Leiva should the Brazilian
be loaned out following the arrivals of  Charlie Adam ,  Jordan
Henderson  and Stewart Downing, the Daily Mirror  reported .  If Leiva does go on loan to another club, Liverpool will
need a replacement to deputize and protect the back four, the
Mirror added.  Fletcher Returns  Manchester United midfielder Darren Fletcher was able to
join in a full training session yesterday for the first time
since the end of last season, the  Daily Mail   reported .  The Scot had failed to report back on time after the off-
season break as he recovers from a debilitating virus that kept
him out for two months of the Premier League title run-in, the
newspaper said.  Obertan Overture   Newcastle is ready to make a bid for Manchester United
winger Gabriel Obertan, the  Daily Express   reported .  While a permanent deal is being considered, the Magpies may
initially take Obertan on loan, the Mirror added. The 22-year-
old has been unable to secure a regular berth in United’s senior
team since joining the club two years ago, the newspaper said.  Bench Start  Chelsea manager Andre Villas-Boas is ready to leave U.K.-
record signing  Fernando Torres  on the substitutes’ bench at the
beginning of the season, the Mirror  reported .  Didier Drogba  is likely to start as the attacking spearhead
in Villas-Boas’s preferred 4-3-3 system when Chelsea opens its
Premier League campaign at Stoke on Aug. 14, the Mirror added.
Torres has scored once in 18 appearances since his 50 million-
pound move from Liverpool in January, the paper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  