-- 
NATO Probes Reports Son of Qaddafi Was Killed in Libya Air Raid Yesterday

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-08-05T16:49:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/nato-probes-reports-youngest-son-of-qaddafi-was-killed-in-libya-air-raid.html
NATO is looking into reports that a
son of  Muammar Qaddafi  died in the Libyan town of Zlitan, where
the alliance struck two targets yesterday. The Libyan government
denied he’d been killed, the  Associated Press  reported  The information minister of the Libyan rebels’ National
Transitional Council, Mahmoud Shammam, said its forces had
received unconfirmed reports that Khamis Qaddafi died in a raid
on Zlitan, about 50 kilometers (30 miles) west of the rebel-held
port city of Misrata on the Mediterranean coast.  Libyan Deputy Foreign Minister Khaled Kaim said Khamis is
alive and spoke with officials from Qaddafi’s government to
confirm it, the AP said.  North Atlantic Treaty Organization aircraft hit an
ammunition storage area and a military-police facility late
yesterday in Zlitan, the alliance said in an e-mailed statement
from mission headquarters in Naples,  Italy . Pro- and anti-
Qaddafi forces have been battling for control of the town as the
rebels seek to advance toward the capital, Tripoli.  “NATO does not target individuals,” the alliance said.
“We are looking into it, as we always do.”  Khamis Qaddafi, the youngest son of the Libyan leader,
commands the government’s elite 32nd brigade, which the U.S.
military said in March had as many as 10,000 soldiers, possessed
some of the best equipment and acted as the “primary regime
protection element.”  Initial Assault  Part of the initial NATO missile assault on Qaddafi’s
forces in March was focused on Khamis’s military unit. NATO has
targeted the brigade’s headquarters south of Tripoli, while
rebels accuse it of carrying out several assaults on Misrata.  Previous reports of Khamis Qaddafi’s death went
unsubstantiated. Qaddafi’s son was one of 33 members of the
government forces killed in an early-morning NATO raid, the
Associated Press reported, citing a rebel spokesman.  Shammam, speaking by phone from an undisclosed location
outside of  Libya , said that although there was a “strong
feeling” among rebels that Qaddafi’s son had been killed,
“nobody has seen the body; nobody has seen the actual scene.”  The Libyan government has said an April 30 NATO raid killed
another Qaddafi son, Saif al-Arab, as well as three
grandchildren. Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  later
called that statement into question, citing intelligence
reports.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net  