-- 
Five New Orleans Police Officers Convicted in Post-Katrina Shooting Case

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 
2011-08-05T20:40:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/new-orleans-policemen-convicted-over-bridge-shooting-in-wake-of-hurricane.html
A jury convicted New Orleans police
officers of violating the civil rights of two people killed a
week after  Hurricane Katrina  devastated the city in 2005. A
fifth was found guilty of a later cover-up, along with the other
four.  Jurors deliberated three days to convict the officers of
all 25 counts they were accused of. They are to be sentenced
Dec. 14 by U.S. District Judge Kurt D. Engelhardt in New
Orleans. The four who fired shots at the bridge are in custody.
The fifth, a detective, is free on bail.  The civil rights violations caused the deaths of James
Brissette, 17, and Ronald Madison, 40, the jury found
separately, meaning the maximum punishment for the four officers
directly involved is life in prison.  The jury convicted officers Kenneth Bowen, Robert Gisevius,
Robert Faulcon and Anthony Villavaso of opening fire on unarmed
black civilians on the city’s Danziger Bridge and conspiring
with others to cover up their actions.  The fifth, homicide detective Arthur “Archie” Kaufman,
was convicted of conspiring to make the shootings appear
justified.  The shootings took place on Sept. 4, 2005, one week after
Katrina flooded most of  New Orleans  and one day after stranded
evacuees were airlifted and bused to safety. The defendants were
indicted in July 2010. The incident started about 9 a.m.  Officers’ Version  Lawyers for the four accused shooters said their clients
were dedicated officers who refused to abandon their posts,
rescuing people from floodwaters before and after the shootings.  The defendants claimed they were responding to gunfire and
that they believed the people were a danger to themselves and
others. They denied involvement in a cover-up.  Prosecutors said there was no evidence that any of the
civilians had guns.  “We have actual witnesses who told you there were no
guns,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Theodore Carter said Aug. 2 in
closing arguments. “We have actual shooters who told you there
were no guns.”  Bowen, Gisevius, Faulcon and Villavaso were accused of
firing on a family on the east side of the Danziger Bridge,
killing Brissette and wounding four other people. The officers
said they were responding to a policewoman’s radio call saying
police and rescue workers were in danger.  Faulcon was charged with shooting Madison on the other side
of the bridge. Madison, who had mental disabilities, died at the
scene, the government said.  Attack Foreseen  Faulcon’s police training convinced him “that Mr. Madison
was about to shoot him,” his lawyer, Paul Fleming, said Aug. 2
at the trial. The decision to shoot was reasonable and
justifiable, he said.  The officer was convicted of violating Madison’s civil
rights. The jury said the violation didn’t amount to murder.  Bowen was charged with kicking and stomping Madison as he
lay “on the ground, alive but mortally wounded,” according to
the indictment. Bowen denied the allegation, contending the
witness who accused him of kicking Madison lied.  Kaufman, the homicide detective, allegedly joined the
officers in a conspiracy to conceal what happened at the bridge.
Kaufman was charged with 10 counts including obstruction of
justice and fabrication of evidence.  Stephen  London , Kaufman’s attorney, said conditions after
Katrina hampered his investigations of the police shootings that
resulted in his federal indictment on cover-up charges.  No Coroner  “There was no crime lab and no coroner’s office,” London
said. “The bodies had to lay out there for hours until removed
by  pickup trucks .”  A sixth officer indicted with Kaufman and the others,
Gerard Dugue, was also charged with obstruction of justice. His
trial is scheduled for September.  Frank DeSalvo, Bowen’s attorney, said in his closing
argument that for the jury to accept the government’s theory of
unjustified deadly force, “you have to believe Kenneth Bowen
said, ‘I’m tired of rescuing people. Let’s kill a couple.’ It’s
unreasonable to believe police stopped rescues to shoot
people.”  The conditions in the city after Katrina didn’t excuse the
officers’ conduct, prosecutor Barbara Bernstein told the jury in
her closing statements.  “Police were tired and frustrated,” she said. “They
thought nobody was watching. They assumed they could take the
city back by sending a loud and clear message: ‘Don’t mess with
the police.’”  Prosecutor’s Thanks  Bernstein today thanked “the people who allowed justice to
happen to the victims and their families,” in a press
conference after the verdicts were read.  U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder said in a statement that
the officers abused power and made worse “one of the most
devastating times for the people of New Orleans.”  “I am hopeful today’s verdict brings justice for the
victims and their family members, helps to heal the community
and contributes to the restoration of public trust in the New
Orleans Police Department,” Holder said in the statement.  The four officers who fired shots at the bridge face
“potential multiple life sentences” and Kaufman as much as
120 years in prison, Holder said.  The trial followed guilty pleas by five former New Orleans
police officers who admitted participating in a conspiracy to
obstruct justice and cover-up what happened on the bridge, the
 Justice Department  said. Those officers testified at the trial.  False Charges  Of the defendants, Bowen, Gisevius and Villavaso are still
on the force. Faulcon left the department, and Kaufman is
retired.  The government won convictions of conspiracy to file false
charges against two civilians, Jose Holmes and Ronald Madison’s
brother, Lance.  Lance Madison was initially charged with eight counts of
attempting to kill police officers and held in jail for three
weeks, the government said. He was released without indictment.  Romell Madison, a dentist and brother of Ronald and Lance
Madison, was rushed and hugged by activists outside the
courthouse.  “There’s a degree of closure,” he said of the conviction
on his brother’s death. “It is never going to bring my brother
back, but it may help the citizens of New Orleans and the
citizens of the  United States .”  The case is U.S. v. Bowen, 2:10-cr-00204, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana  (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield,  Michigan ,
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Allen Johnson Jr. in New Orleans federal court
at   allenmct@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 