-- 
New Zealand Interest Rate-Increase Wagers Reduced as Global Stocks Tumble

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-08-05T00:24:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/new-zealand-interest-rate-increase-wagers-reduced-as-global-stocks-tumble.html
Investors reduced bets that  New
Zealand  will raise  interest rates  in September after stock
prices slumped in  Europe , the U.S. and  Asia  on concern the
global economic recovery is faltering.  There is a 36 percent chance New Zealand will raise its
official cash rate at the next review on Sept. 15, down from 132
percent yesterday, according to a Credit Suisse Group AG index
based on swaps trading. Traders also boosted wagers that
 Australia ’s central bank will lower the developed world’s
highest benchmark borrowing costs this year.  Central bank Governor Alan Bollard on July 28 signaled he
was ready to raise borrowing costs as much as half a percentage
point “provided current global financial risks recede and the
economy continues to recover.” Such an increase would
effectively reverse a half-point cut in March implemented to
revive confidence after the Christchurch earthquake.  “There’s a lot of swinging around quite viciously,” said
 Craig Ebert , senior economist at Bank of New Zealand Ltd. in
Wellington. “If it doesn’t look like the boxes are being ticked
by the time we get to September, there’s a chance the Reserve
Bank doesn’t hike.”  The global rout in equities drove the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index to its worst slump since February 2009, while two-year
Treasury yields plunged to a record low amid concern the  U.S.
economy  is weakening.  Stocks Rout  In New Zealand, the benchmark NZX 50 index fell 2.4 percent
at 11:30 a.m. in Wellington, the most since March 2009. The  New
Zealand dollar  is heading for its first fall in six weeks, and
has slumped under 83 U.S. cents for the first time in more than
three weeks. It bought 88.43 cents on Aug. 1 the highest since
exchange controls were lifted in March 1985.  Bollard on July 28 kept the cash rate at a record-low 2.5
percent saying there was “little need for the March insurance
cut” to remain in place.  Eight of 12 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News on July
28 predicted Bollard will return the cash rate to 3 percent at
his next review on Sept. 15. Two predicted a quarter-point rise
and two forecast no change.  “Clearly if what’s been happening continues and gets
worse, then it may yet be difficult for them to take back the
insurance element even because they did put those conditions on
it,” said Ebert. Still, “if this stabilizes and the currency
keeps falling and the economy proves itself to be robust, it
swings the chances back.”  The New Zealand cash rate is likely to be 54 basis points
higher in a year’s time, according to a second Credit Suisse
index. By contrast, in Australia investors expect the cash-rate
target will be 116 basis points lower in 12 month’s time. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Cash-rate futures for December on the  Sydney Futures
Exchange  yielded 3.86 percent as of 10:10 a.m. local time,
compared with the  Reserve Bank  of Australia’s target rate of
4.75 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at  