-- 
News Corp. Board Offers Garbage In, Garbage Out: Susan Antilla

-- B y   S u s a n   A n t i l l a
-- 
2011-08-05T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/news-corp-board-offers-trash-in-trash-out-commentary-by-susan-antilla.html
A thriving, sex-and-gossip newspaper
has been shuttered, big shots in media, politics and law
enforcement have resigned, and arrests have been made. It has
resulted in a lot of headlines, but considering how old the real
news is, I wonder what all the fuss is about.  The worst-kept secret in recent business history is that
 News Corp. (NWS)  is an underachiever when it comes to matters of
 corporate governance . Long before hacked phone messages and
bribed London cops replaced  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  as the hot
global story, the people who analyze how well public companies
manage themselves were holding their noses whenever they perused
regulatory filings from Rupert Murdoch’s media empire. Now,
shares of the company are themselves a scandal, losing 19
percent since the scandal heated up July 4.  Garbage in -- that is, a board encumbered with conflicts of
interest -- turns out to be a reliable predictor of garbage out.  To recap: It has been five years since newspapers reported
that a journalist at Murdoch’s now-defunct News of the World had
hired an investigator to  hack  the phones of  Prince William  and
others. Armed with the royals’ messages, the paper imparted to
readers an international scoop of history-making proportion: The
prince had hurt his knee.  The reporter,  Clive Goodman , and the investigator,  Glenn Mulcaire , both did time in prison for that and other hacking
crimes in 2007. News Corp. portrayed the matter as an example of
isolated rogue reporting. Then on July 4 of this year the
Guardian published a story detailing how News of the World
staffers had also hacked into the mobile phone of missing
teenager Milly Dowler in 2002, deleting some of the girl’s
messages to make room for new voicemails in hopes of getting an
exclusive. The girl’s distraught parents thought Milly herself
must be deleting the messages, and thus was still alive. She
wasn’t.  What a Prince  It’s one thing to mess with public figures like a prince,
but it’s another to hack the mobile phone of a murdered
teenager, providing hope to her traumatized parents and
sidetracking police on the case -- all in the name of breaking a
story that has no public-policy value. The Guardian article
marked the start of a deluge of news coverage that put to rest
the implausible rogue-reporter theory. On July 31,  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s
Wall Street Journal  reported  that U.K. police had expanded their
criminal investigations of the company to add possible computer
hacking to what was initially a probe of phone hacking and
police payoffs.  Jack Horner , a spokesman for the company,
declined to comment.  There is much more to this sordid tale, but if you are a
shareholder the only fact you really need to get your head
around is why you hadn’t braced yourself for trouble in the
first place. News Corp., as it turns out, is a case study in why
corporate governance should matter to investors.  Case for Crisis  The details of all this couldn’t have been foreseen by even
the most prescient of analysts, of course, but the prediction
that News Corp. would at some point land in a crisis was clear
to experts in corporate governance. “If you wanted to make up
the sort of company that will fail in the future, this is the
sort of board you’d put together,” said  Paul Hodgson , managing
director at GovernanceMetrics International, a New York-based
governance consulting firm and rating service. GMI tracks 3,000
publicly held companies in its database. Only 36 of them now
carry an “F,” the rating News Corp. has had since GMI began
grading corporate governance in 2003.  It’s easy to understand why when you scroll through the
list of the company’s 15 directors. Among nine directors deemed
independent are Jose Maria Aznar, the former prime minister of
 Spain , who was 50 percent owner of a consulting firm that was
 paid  120,000 pounds ($195,000) for advisory services to News
Corp. in the fiscal year that ended June 30, 2006; he and the
company terminated the agreement on June 20, 2006, just before
he joined the board, according to a News Corp. proxy. Aznar
couldn’t be reached for comment.  Kenneth E. Cowley, another independent director, was a
senior executive at News Corp.’s News Ltd. subsidiary in
 Australia  from 1964 to 1997, according to a regulatory filing.
He has been a director since 1979 and is on the corporate-
governance committee. Rod Eddington, a member of News Corp.’s
compensation committee and chairman of its  audit committee , used
to be chairman of Ansett Holdings Ltd., an Australian airline in
which News Corp. had a financial interest until 2000. At least
shareholders can take solace that independent director Natalie Bancroft comes with no strings attached. Put on the board as a
condition of the deal when Murdoch purchased Dow Jones & Co.
from the Bancroft family in 2007, she is a professionally
trained opera singer. That might come in handy should Murdoch
ever stage a hostile takeover of the  Metropolitan Opera .  (Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.)  Getting F’s  News Corp. might get F’s when it comes to corporate
governance, but you can’t say the operation is lacking for
family values. Rupert and sons James and Lachlan sit on the
board. James is deputy chief operating officer.  Rupert Murdoch ’s
wife, Wendi Murdoch, was on the payroll from 2006 to 2010 for
providing what company regulatory filings describe as “strategic
advice” to develop MySpace in  China . (After buying MySpace for
$580 million in 2005, News Corp. sold it for $35 million this
year). A Murdoch son-in-law, Alasdair MacLeod, worked for the
News Ltd. news division until last year. Another son-in-law,
Matthew Freud, runs a publicity company that in each of the past
five years has been paid between $350,000 and $669,202 by News
Corp., according to proxy filings.  Rupert Murdoch  intends to add  his daughter Elisabeth, the
wife of Freud, to the board. News Corp. purchased her production
company, Shine Group Ltd., for $673 million earlier this year,
prompting a shareholder lawsuit in March that accused Murdoch of
using the company as if it were “a wholly owned family candy
store.” News Corp. called the suit “meritless.” Oh, and I almost
forgot: JPMorgan Chase & Co. advised Elisabeth Murdoch on the
 transaction  to sell Shine to her father’s company. Eddington is
nonexecutive chairman of JPMorgan Australia Group.  Family Thing  Even non-Murdochs have that family thing going. David F. DeVoe is the chief financial officer; his son, David F. DeVoe Jr., is executive vice president of News Corp.’s Fox
Entertainment Group Inc.  None of this would matter if News Corp. were a private
company. But there’s this old-fashioned idea out there that
managements of public companies report to boards of directors,
and that shareholders are owners who have a say in things. Good
luck with that if you hold News Corp. stock. Murdoch and his
trust own 39.7 percent of the Class B shares, the only ones with
a vote. “With a 40 percent holding, it’s very difficult for
public shareholders unless they are in absolute concert to vote
against him,” said Hodgson, the governance expert.  Fighting Back  That’s not to say shareholders haven’t tried to fight back.
In a letter to shareholders on Oct. 7, 2004, News Corp.
responded to a flap raised by shareholder advisory groups by
making several changes, among which was a policy covering so-
called poison pills, which are often used to deter hostile
takeovers. If the board were to establish a poison pill without
shareholder approval, it would expire after one year “unless it
is ratified by stockholders,” the company said at the time. On
Aug. 9, 2005, though, News Corp. broke that promise, extending
its poison pill for two years without putting it to a
stockholder vote.  John Malone ’s Liberty Media had accumulated an
unwelcome 18 percent stake in News Corp., and Murdoch used the
pill to keep him at bay long enough to cut a deal in 2008 to get
Malone’s $11.3 billion stake in  exchange  for cash and certain
News Corp. assets. With Malone out of News Corp.’s hair, the
board dropped the pill later that year.  No Kidding  Bloomberg News reported on July 27 that News Corp. had
asked New York-based public relations firm Sard Verbinnen & Co.
to survey the biggest shareholders about the independence of New
Corp.’s board, its dual-class share structure and its corporate
governance. Why bother? News Corp. has known for years what
shareholders think about those issues. And shareholders have
known -- or should have -- what they were getting when they
purchased News Corp. shares. Hodgson says companies with all the
governance problems News Corp. has “will get away with it for a
certain period, and then it comes home to roost.”  So who’s kidding whom here? When you buy shares of a
company where more than one person on the board has the same
last name, and spouses, in-laws, and directors cash in on job
appointments, contracts and asset sales to the company, you
should expect to get what you pay for. The best favor News Corp.
could do for shareholders is to make sure nobody named Murdoch
sits in the C-suite. Barring that, shareholders with a complaint
about the downside of investing in a family dynasty have only
themselves to blame.  ( Susan Antilla , who has written about  Wall Street  and
business for three decades and is the author of “Tales From
the Boom-Boom Room,” a book about sexual harassment at
financial companies, is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Susan Antilla at  santilla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  