-- 
News Corp. Is Said to Give Pay Increases to Former News of the World Staff

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-08-05T11:45:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/news-corp-is-said-to-give-pay-increases-to-former-news-of-the-world-staff.html
Employees of News of the World, the
 News Corp. (NWSA)  Sunday tabloid closed amid a phone-hacking scandal,
will get salary increases of as much as 3 percent that will be
paid out through the rest of their severance period, according
to two people familiar with the situation.  The raises, which take effect Sept. 1, are based on
performance and range from nothing to as much as 3 percent,
according to an e-mailed memo obtained by Bloomberg News. The
increases are part of a compensation agreement for newspapers
run by News Corp.’s News International unit in the U.K.  News Corp. was forced to close the 168-year-old News of the
World after revelations that the paper hacked into the phone of
a murdered school girl. The scandal has led to at least 11
arrests, including former News of the World editors Rebekah Brooks and  Andy Coulson .  “The past few months have been some of the most turbulent
in the company’s long history,” News International Chief
Executive Officer Tom Mockridge said in the e-mail. “I want to
thank each of you who have remained focused on your job, your
customers and your readers throughout this difficult period.”  While the memo didn’t mention News of the World, the
tabloid’s former employees will be eligible for the pay
increases, said the people, who declined to comment because
personnel matters are private. Journalists at other News
International titles including the Sun, the Times and the Sunday
Times will also get the raises.  News International declined to immediately comment. Some
News International staff may also receive bonuses of between 200
pounds ($325) and 1,400 pounds, according to the memo.  Job Placements  Brooks, who was then chief executive officer of News
International, said July 8 that News Corp. would try to find
jobs for the 200 employees and that they would be paid for three
months. She stepped down as News International CEO a week later.  Openings include one for a materials manager for Fox
television’s theatrical departments division in Siberia, 74
positions globally at Dow Jones & Co. and about 30 each at
publisher HarperCollins and about 30 at Fox. News International
has 50 openings, three people with knowledge of the matter said
last month.  Employees are pushing for a bigger payoff because of the
way the newspaper was suddenly shuttered, two people familiar
with matter told Bloomberg last month.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  Sky Italia   News Corp., controlled by  Rupert Murdoch , is struggling to
move past the phone-hacking scandal, which also caused it to
drop a 7.8 billion pound bid for the remaining 61 percent of
 British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  it doesn’t already own.  Mockridge, who joined News International from Sky Italia to
replace Brooks, praised the company’s the success in the past
year, saying it had won 70 industry awards across “every area
of our business.”  “Please continue to work hard and be proud of what we
achieve every day,” he wrote. “We produce some of the best
quality journalism in the world and that has not changed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in the London newsroom at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net  