-- 
News Corp. Story Kept Alive by ‘Gallimaufry’ of Actors, Lawyers

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-08-05T00:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/news-corp-story-kept-alive-by-gallimaufry-of-actors-lawyers.html
Actor Hugh Grant and former U.K.
Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott attended a dinner to honor
Nick Davies, the Guardian newspaper reporter who in July 2009
broke the first story that phone hacking at News Corp.’s News of
the World newspaper might extend beyond a “rogue” reporter.  Each of the guests, including Grant’s former girlfriend
Jemima Khan and TV soccer commentator Andy Gray, had played
their own role in keeping the story from dying out over the last
two years, said U.K. lawmaker  Chris Bryant , who attended the
dinner near the beginning of June at L’Escargot in London.  “It was an extraordinary gallimaufry of characters,”
Bryant, a member of the opposition  Labour Party , said of the
dinner, using a term for a culinary hodge-podge.  The phone-hacking scandal threatened to drop from the
headlines several times since it emerged after the arrests of a
News of the World reporter and investigator in 2006, with police
and prosecutors twice deciding not to open new probes. The news
on July 4 this year that the paper hacked into the phone of a
murdered schoolgirl made international headlines, leading News
Corp. to shutter the 168-year-old tabloid and drop its bid for
 British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  and prompting the resignation
of two company executives.  Milly Dowler  While the story about 13-year-old Milly Dowler’s phone put
hacking on the front pages, civil lawsuits by celebrities and
politicians led to the discovery of other evidence that had
finally forced the police to open a new probe in January.  “It’s the civil actions that have led the way and have
brought us to where we are,” Mark Thomson, a lawyer for the
actress  Sienna Miller , said in an interview. “All the critical
documents in reality were with the police. We effectively got
disclosure without redactions.”  The story could have disappeared from view after private
investigator Glen Mulcaire and the paper’s royal reporter,  Clive Goodman , were jailed in 2007.  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s News International
unit said phone hacking was the work of one “rogue” reporter,
and the police, who held 11,000 pages of evidence, decided to
probe no further.  Operation Weeting  Miller’s suit in October produced proof that journalists
beyond Goodman and Mulcaire were aware of phone hacking at the
paper. Miller alleged that Ian Edmondson, a news editor,
approved a contract for Mulcaire to eavesdrop on her messages.
Operation Weeting, which opened after Miller’s claims became
public, has led to 11 arrests, including Edmondson. No one has
been charged.  Outside of the courts, celebrities kept the pressure on
News Corp. Grant became an unofficial spokesman for victims,
secretly taping an interview with former News of the World
reporter Paul McMullan about phone hacking, and helping to start
a “Hacked Off” campaign for a public inquiry.  “It’s good they kept on,” said Jenny Jones, a member of
the  London  Assembly and the Metropolitan Police Authority, which
scrutinizes the capital’s force. “I’ve got to say I didn’t have
that much sympathy early on. I’m not sure if they understood the
real extent of it all. Wasn’t it more about just how offended
they were that it happened to them?”  Brooks, Hinton  The scandal triggered the resignations of News
International Chief Executive Officer Rebekah Brooks, Dow Jones
& Co. CEO  Les Hinton  and Metropolitan Police Commissioner Paul Stephenson. U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  announced a public
inquiry on July 8, two days after Parliament held an emergency
debate on the topic sparked by Bryant.  Bryant, a former member of Parliament’s culture committee,
questioned Brooks in 2003 about payments made to police. “We
have paid the police for information in the past,” she said.
She later said she had not personally authorized any such
payments. Brooks was arrested on July 17 by officers probing
phone hacking and possible payments to police. She hasn’t been
charged.  Goodman and Mulcaire were convicted of plotting to tap into
voice-mail messages of aides to Britain’s royal family in 2006.
Mulcaire was also convicted of unlawfully intercepting
voicemails for the supermodel  Elle Macpherson , celebrity
publicist  Max Clifford , politician  Simon Hughes , sports agent
Sky Andrew and  Gordon Taylor , the CEO of  England ’s Professional
Footballers’ Association.  ‘For Neville’  That Taylor wasn’t a member of the royal family, or
included in the charges against Goodman, made  Mark Lewis ,
Taylor’s lawyer, believe that phone hacking involved more than
one reporter, he said.  In April 2008, Lewis obtained documents from the police who
had investigated Goodman and Mulcaire that included a transcript
of voice mails left for Taylor. It had been typed up by a junior
reporter and marked “for Neville.” The only Neville on the
News of the World at the time was Neville Thurlbeck, its chief
reporter.  Before the end of the year, the paper paid 1 million pounds
($1.6 million) in legal fees and compensation and to Taylor and
his colleagues in a settlement, which became the subject of
Guardian reporter Davies’s story on July 8, 2009.  On July 13 of that year, Lewis says he was asked to promise
his  law firm  that he wouldn’t represent other hacking victims,
or be expelled from the partnership. He chose the latter.  ‘Cover-Up’  “I was the first person who wasn’t involved in the
criminality to lose their job,” Lewis, who was also at the
Davies dinner, said in an interview. While he said he’d kept the
Taylor case quiet because of his client’s best interest, “I
knew that there were thousands of victims and that therefore one
had to persevere. From a non-altruistic purpose, I knew there
was a lot of work, but from an altruistic basis I knew that this
was a cover-up.”  Lewis now represents about 70 possible hacking victims,
including Dowler’s family. It was the July 4 story that News of
the World reporters had in 2002 deleted messages from her phone
that turned the phone-hacking saga from something that
interested a few lawmakers to a national scandal.  “The revelation about the Dowler family was instrumental
in causing the firestorm,” Miller’s lawyer, Thomson said.  News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  held his head in his
hands as he met Dowler’s parents on July 15 to apologize, Lewis
told reporters. Four days later, he and his son James, deputy
chief operating officer of News Corp., were questioned by the
culture committee.  James Murdoch  told lawmakers that the Miller case led the
company to uncover new evidence that they turned over to police,
leading to Operation Weeting.  ‘Obsessional’  Bryant and fellow lawmaker  Tom Watson  have persisted
alongside the celebrities. Watson, a member of the culture
panel, quizzed News of the World officials in 2009 during a
press standards inquiry. Fellow lawmakers used to say he was
“obsessional,” he told the Independent newspaper on July 25.  Watson was the first lawmaker after committee Chairman John Whittingdale to pose questions to the Murdochs at the latest
hearing, focusing early questions on Rupert.  “Tom’s the real hero,” said Bryant, who even as a
lawmaker says he finds it “bizarre” that the case has thrust
him into gatherings that include celebrities. The dinner in
honor of Davies was the first time he’d met Jemima Khan.  “Now I bump into her everywhere,” said Bryant, who has
filed his own phone-hacking suit. “ Hugh Grant  even cites me on
‘Question Time.’ It’s quite bizarre,” he said, referring to a
British Broadcasting Corp. television program.  A story that’s exposed the worst excesses of journalists
who Thomson said “thought they can get away with anything” has
also shown reporters can serve to uncover wrongdoing. Thomson
and Bryant praised Davies, the Guardian reporter, for chasing
the story.  “The premium award for persistence goes to Nick Davies,”
Professor George Brock, head of journalism at City University
London, said in an interview. “Lawyers have played a secondary
role in making sure that the process was always kept moving and
that disclosures were gradually eked out to the point where it
became a torrent where the disclosures got worse and worse.”  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 