-- 
Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corp. to Manage 3 Bailed-Out Lenders

-- B y   E m e l e   O n u
-- 
2011-08-05T22:24:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/nigeria-deposit-insurance-corp-to-manage-3-bailed-out-lenders.html
The  Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corp .,
which insures deposits in the country’s banking industry, took
over three bailed-out banks today deemed unlikely to meet a
Sept. 30 recapitalization deadline.  The lenders, Afribank Plc,  Bank PHB Plc (PLATINUM)  and  Spring Bank
Plc (SPRINGBK) , haven’t “shown the necessary capacity and obligation to
recapitalize,” NDIC Managing Director Umaru Ibrahim told
reporters today in Lagos, the commercial capital. “The assets
and liabilities of the affected banks, whose licenses have been
revoked by the central bank, have been duly transferred by the
corporation to newly incorporated bridge banks.”  The so-called bridge banks, Main Street Bank Ltd. for
Afribank, Keystone Bank Ltd. for Bank PHB and Enterprise Bank
Ltd. for Spring Bank, have been set up “in the interest of
depositors and to prevent liquidation,” Ibrahim said.  Afribank, Spring and Bank PHB are among eight banks bailed
out in 2009 with an injection of 620 billion naira ($4 billion)
following a debt crisis that put the banking industry on the
verge of collapse. The lenders were given until Sept. 30 by
regulators to recapitalize.  Four of the bailed-out banks, Union Bank  Nigeria  Plc,
Intercontinental Bank Plc, Finbank Plc and Oceanic Bank
International Plc, have signed agreements to be acquired by
other lenders, “which is a significant step towards their
recapitalization,” Ibrahim said.  The NDIC will operate the bridge banks until the Asset
Management Corp. of Nigeria, or Amcon, set up by the government
to buy banks’ bad debts, is able to bring them back to capital
adequacy. Licenses have been issued to the bridge banks and
guarantees their inter-bank obligations until Dec. 31, 2011, the
central bank said in a statement.  Calls made to Bank PHB, Afribank and Spring Bank after
normal business hours weren’t answered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emele Onu in Lagos at 
 eonu1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  