-- 
Novartis’s Jimenez Has Blockbuster Plans for Diovan After Patent Expires

-- B y   E v a   V o n   S c h a p e r
-- 
2011-08-05T15:50:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/novartis-has-blockbuster-diovan-plans-after-patent-expires-1-.html
Novartis AG (NOVN)  Chief Executive Officer
Joseph Jimenez had worked in the pharmaceutical industry only
four years before taking the helm of the Swiss drug giant in
February 2010.  Yet his brief tenure in the business hasn’t kept him from
crafting a bold solution to a problem that’s long stumped drug
industry veterans: how to manage the so-called patent cliff when
lucrative medicines lose patent protection. Veteran executives
at some companies, such as Sanofi, are acquiring smaller rivals
with more promising drug pipelines. Others, such as managers at
 Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , are cutting back on expensive research and
development to save cash.  Jimenez, only 13 months away from the U.S. patent
expiration of his company’s best-selling drug, Diovan, doesn’t
feel pressed to do either, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its
Aug. 8 edition. Instead, he’s targeting administrative costs
while aggressively promoting medicines in emerging markets and
cranking out new drugs from his own labs.  The longtime consumer-products executive is betting
Novartis can maintain a third of the $6.1 billion in annual
sales of Diovan, a hypertension drug, by focusing on sales in
emerging markets. While that may seem like a big drop, it’s
smaller than the post-patent nose dives suffered by former
blockbusters such as Pfizer’s Norvasc hypertension pill and
Merck & Co.’s cholesterol drug, Zocor.  “We can get through the Diovan patent expiration if things
go to plan,” Jimenez said in an interview at Novartis’s Basel,
Switzerland, headquarters. “The market hasn’t digested that
fully.”  Shares Decline  Novartis fell 1.08 Swiss francs, or 2.4 percent, to 43.42
francs in Zurich trading. Investors have beaten down Novartis
shares 21 percent this year, making it the third-worst performer
in the Bloomberg  Europe  Pharmaceutical Index. The company also
faces the loss of patents on its second-best seller, the cancer
medicine Gleevec, starting in 2014. That puts an additional
$4.27 billion in annual sales at risk.  “They’ve got two cliffs with Diovan and Gleevec,” said MF
Global analyst  Justin Smith  in London.  Jimenez said that shifting Diovan’s growth focus to
emerging markets in  Latin America  and parts of  Asia , where the
blood pressure medicine already competes largely without patent
protection, will help keep its blockbuster status.  Keep $2 Billion Sales  Diovan sales are rising in those fast-growing parts of the
world even though the drug costs more than generic versions.
Many patients in markets where drug counterfeiting is widespread
are willing to pay more for a brand’s perceived quality.  Jimenez figures he can expand promotion of the drug to
doctors in these markets aggressively enough to retain at least
$2 billion in Diovan sales worldwide. If he’s right, the
strategy might buy him time for Novartis’s year-old Gilenya pill
for multiple sclerosis and an asthma treatment to gain momentum
in Western markets where drugs sell at much higher prices.  The U.K.’s National Institute for Health and Clinical
Excellence, which advises the state-run  National Health Service 
on treatment costs, rejected Gilenya in draft guidance today.
The agency said the drugmaker failed to show that the pill
reduces relapses sufficiently to justify the annual cost of
about 19,196 pounds ($31,300).  Eric Althoff , a Novartis
spokesman, said the drug is “highly efficacious and cost-
effective” and that the company will work with the agency to
ensure the appropriate patients can get the medicine.  Patent Cliff  Novartis isn’t alone at the edge of the patent cliff. Drugs
with $139 billion in combined annual sales will be going off
patent in the next five years, according to researcher
EvaluatePharma. Yet history suggests Jimenez’s stick-it-out
strategy is risky: Sales of brand-name medicines often plunge
more than 90 percent within a few years after the introduction
of generic competition. Zocor, which logged $5.2 billion in
revenue in 2004, had sales of just $468 million last year.  Jimenez is following a different course to retain sales of
Gleevec, which will lose protection in  Japan , the U.S., and
Europe by 2016. He’s ramping up sales of Tasigna, a medicine
based on Gleevec which, like its cousin, is approved for use
against leukemia.  Gleevec Expiration  Tasigna, with $399 million in sales last year, could bring
in more than $2 billion in 2015, according to the average
estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “We have time to convince physicians and the industry that
patients are better off with Tasigna,” Jimenez said.  Besides maneuvering the patent transition in its pharma
business, Jimenez is still managing the integration of Alcon
Inc., the eye-care company that his predecessor,  Daniel Vasella ,
bought in stages for $50 billion starting in 2008.  Vasella figured eye care holds faster growth prospects than
pharmaceuticals. The business has come with a learning curve.
While Novartis already sold  contact lenses  and the Lucentis eye
drug, the drugmaker has no experience in Alcon’s main business:
products for eye surgery.  Alcon Devices  “We partly bought Alcon for the management team because
it’s a device business and we’re not a device company,” Jimenez
said. “I’m spending a lot of my time ensuring that the
management team is getting what it needs from Novartis so that
they can maximize the value of their business for Novartis
shareholders.”  The company’s real hope, however, lies in its promising new
drugs. Products introduced since 2007, such as Afinitor for
kidney cancer, now account for 28 percent of its business.
Afinitor had sales of $102 million in the second quarter, almost
double its revenue the year before. Gilenya’s revenue was $79
million and may exceed $2 billion by 2015, based on the average
estimate of six analysts.  “You can easily build a case that said that because the
pipeline is so rich, that we could get through this period”
without having to look outside the company for growth, Jimenez
said. “I can’t guarantee that it’s going to happen, but I can
say that there’s a clear path to deliver it.”  Heinz Cuts  Jimenez joined Novartis’s drug division in 2007 after eight
years at H.J. Heinz Co. and a short stint at Blackstone Group
LP. He made a name for himself by aggressively bringing down
costs while he was head of Heinz’s European division, said CEO
William Johnson.  “He was very analytical and decisive, and he was prepared
to make decisions that were very unpopular,” Johnson said.  Soon after becoming Novartis CEO, Jimenez overhauled U.S.
pharma operations, eliminating the company’s primary care unit
and cutting 383 jobs. This March he proposed reducing operations
at a research site in Horsham,  England , and in November announced 
that about 1,400 sales positions will be cut in the U.S., in part
because of the Diovan patent loss.  Jimenez inherited a company that Vasella, who remains
Novartis’s chairman, forged out of the Swiss drugmakers Sandoz
and Ciba-Geigy. That created an entity diversified much like
Johnson & Johnson, which sells  prescription drugs , eye care,
vaccines, consumer-health products and animal medicines.  “Some have said that Vasella built an empire, now the
focus should be on making it more efficient,” said  Gbola Amusa ,
a UBS analyst in  London .  Numbers Guy  The executives have differing approaches. “Daniel was a
guy who came from a medical perspective,” said  James Shannon ,
head of Novartis’s development unit until 2008. “Joe is very
much a numbers-oriented guy.”  One area where Jimenez isn’t wielding the knife is
research. Novartis’s R&D spending last year rose 21 percent, to
more than $9 billion, and was about $4.6 billion in the first
half of 2011. By contrast, rival Sanofi’s R&D spending last year
fell 4 percent, and Pfizer plans to cut its budget to develop
new drugs by as much as $3 billion in the next two years.  “If the industry is about innovation and growth, you’d
better keep your R&D spending strong,” Jimenez said. “All of
the non-innovation costs need to be aggressively managed.”  To accomplish that, Jimenez aims to boost the use of
Novartis’s manufacturing capacity to 80 percent from 50 percent.
He also has introduced cost-saving purchasing methods such as
reverse auctions, where suppliers bid against one another to
give Novartis the lowest price for goods and services.  The company already has found more than the targeted $300
million of annual cost savings from the Alcon purchase, Jimenez
said. Yet managing Diovan’s decline will be his real test.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eva Von Schaper in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  