-- 
Nursing Homes Beg for Medicare Mercy as Credit Downgrade Looms

-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 
2011-08-05T20:11:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/nursing-homes-beg-for-medicare-mercy-as-credit-downgrade-looms.html
Nursing homes such as  Sun Healthcare
Group Inc. (SUNH)  can’t absorb more cuts from U.S. health programs
after an 11 percent Medicare payment rollback and enactment of a
deficit-reduction law that threatens a 2 percent cut, the
industry’s Washington lobby said.  The financial pressures have triggered a  review  by credit
ratings service Standard & Poor’s, which yesterday placed the
debt of for-profit homes including Sun and  Skilled Healthcare
Group Inc. (SKH)  on watch for a downgrade from B, already five steps
below investment grade. Standard & Poor’s said the 11 percent
reduction that goes into effect in October will erode earnings.  “There comes a point in any sector when additional cuts
can no longer be shifted, absorbed or passed through to
others,” said Mark Parkinson, chief executive officer of the
American Health Care Association, the industry’s Washington
lobbying group. “For our profession, that tipping point is
right now.”  A new reimbursement system implemented last year led to
nursing home overpayments from Medicare, the federal health plan
for the elderly and disabled. A rollback announced July 29 will
force operators to give up $3.87 billion next year.  Company shares have been under pressure since April 28,
when Medicare issued a draft regulation saying it might cut
payments to the companies because of overbilling. Since then,
shares of  Irvine , California-based Sun Healthcare have fallen 76
percent; Louisville, Kentucky-based  Kindred Healthcare Inc. (KND)  has
declined 51 percent; and Skilled Healthcare of  Foothill Ranch ,
 California ; has fallen 66 percent. All are currently trading at
their lowest prices this year.  Share Decline  Nursing home stocks are trading at their lowest prices all
year. Kindred shares fell 80 cents, or 5.8 percent, to $12.93 at
4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Skilled
shares fell 37 cents, or 7.5 percent, to $4.58. Shares of Sun
fell 1 cent to $3.29.  Medicare payments for services including post-surgical
rehabilitation make up 23 percent of the industry’s revenue
though only constituting 12 percent of the patient volume,
according to the  Medicare Payment Advisory Commission . Homes
made an 18 percent profit margin on Medicare patients in 2009,
the commission said. In total, the program paid nursing homes
$26.4 billion on nursing home payments in 2010.  The industry’s lobbying group pledged to fight cuts that
could be included in a package drawn up by a bipartisan
commission charged with finding at least $1.2 trillion in U.S.
budget cuts by Nov. 23. If the group doesn’t get its cuts
through Congress, Medicare will automatically slash provider
payments by 2 percent starting in 2013.  On Watch  The financial pressures have led  Standard & Poor’s  to put
six for-profit nursing homes on watch for a downgrade, the
ratings company said in a statement. Sun, Kindred Healthcare and
Skilled Healthcare were the three publicly traded companies
called out by the agency for a potential downgrade. Skilled and
Sun both have B ratings, and Kindred a B plus.  The ratings company said that falling revenue will make it
difficult for the companies to sustain margins. “Resulting
payment reductions will impair cash flow prospects and create a
challenge for our low-speculative-grade rated for-profit nursing
homes to cope with tighter liquidity,” the company said of Sun
Healthcare.  The three other operators affected are closely held and
include HCR Manorcare Inc., which is owned by Washington-based
private equity firm  Carlyle Group .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 