-- 
Obama Says Parties Must Bridge Differences to Help Economy

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   P e l h a m   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-08-05T16:01:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/obama-says-parties-must-bridge-differences-to-help-economy-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  said
Republicans and Democrats must put aside differences to create
an environment that will build confidence for businesses and
consumers.  Both parties “share responsibility” for policies that
will help the economy grow, Obama said at the Washington Navy
Yard, where he is promoting a proposal to give tax credits to
companies that hire unemployed military veterans.  He repeated his pitch for an extending unemployment
benefits and a temporary payroll tax cut to help boost job
growth. While the economy has added jobs for 17 consecutive
months, he said, the pace hasn’t been enough to replace the 8
million lost during the recession.  “We need to create a self-sustaining cycle where people
are spending and companies are hiring and our economy is
growing,” he said. “That will take some time.”  Obama spoke hours after the Labor Department reported that
U.S. employers added a larger-than-expected 117,000 jobs in
July, easing concern that economic growth is about to stall. The
 unemployment rate  unexpectedly fell 0.1 percentage point to 9.1
percent.  ‘Divisive’ Process  The agreement to raise the debt ceiling and trim the
nation’s long-term deficit that he signed into law earlier this
week will help put the U.S. on sounder fiscal footing, Obama
said. Still, the process was “divisive” and took too long, he
said.  “If we want our businesses to have the confidence they
need to get cash off the sidelines, and invest and hire, we’ve
got to do better than that,” he said. “That’s what the
American people expect of us.”  Obama’s focus today was joblessness among those who’ve left
military service. The president is challenging companies to hire
and train as many as 100,000 unemployed veteran or their spouses
by 2013.  The president applauded  Siemens AG (SIE)  for hiring 300 veterans,
with a goal of hiring 350 more by December, and he said
Microsoft Inc. is helping more than 10,000 veterans get
certified over the next two years to help them enter the
workforce.  Tax Credits  With 1 million veterans unemployed as of June and more set
to leave the military as the wars in Iraq and  Afghanistan  wind
down, the administration proposed giving companies a $2,400 tax
credit for each short-term hire and $4,800 for each long-term
job.  The credit for hiring service members with disabilities who
have been unemployed long term would be raised to as much as
$9,600. The existing credit under the government’s wounded-
warrior program provides a maximum credit of $4,800.  The cost would be about $120 million, the administration
estimated, with the tax credits designed to be temporary and
alleviate unemployment during the sluggish recovery from the
recession.  Obama’s plan also includes a “reverse boot camp” that
will prepare service members for employment and offer education
options when they leave the military, the administration said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Victoria Pelham in Washington at 
 vpelham@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  