-- 
Obama’s Glamour Can’t Fix His Charisma Deficit: Virginia Postrel

-- B y   V i r g i n i a   P o s t r e l
-- 
2011-08-05T00:00:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/obama-s-glamour-can-t-fix-his-charisma-deficit-virginia-postrel.html
One thing is clear in the aftermath
of the debt-limit debate: U.S. President  Barack Obama  has lost
his glamour. The alluring icon of hope and change has become
just another pol, derided by his supporters as well as his
opponents. As one  headline  succinctly put it: “Obama succumbs
to the ways of  Washington .”  Most striking was how irrelevant the president seemed to
the entire debate. Obama didn’t present his own alternative to
the various congressional plans or make a case for a particular
policy. When he tried to address the public, he came off as
condescending, self-interested and detached. His pulpit proved
anything but bully.  Contrary to some of the headlines, however, the crisis
didn’t mark a dramatic shift in the president’s standing.
Gradual disillusionment set in long before the debt-ceiling
fight. Back in October, a Bloomberg National Poll asked people
who had at some point been Obama supporters how they now felt
about him. Forty-two percent said they were less enthusiastic
than they’d once been, with 35 percent still supporting the
president at least some of the time and 7 percent either no
longer supportive or actively opposed to him.  That was 10 months ago. Since then, the president’s general
approval ratings have been trending down, hitting a new  low  in
Gallup’s survey last week. Although angry liberals are the
loudest online voices, Obama’s real weakness, according to
Gallup, comes from eroding support among moderates. Less than
half of them now approve of the job he’s doing, compared with 59
percent in early June.  Lack of Enthusiasm  Obama may well win re-election -- for that, he only has to
convince voters that he’s the lesser of two evils -- but the
enthusiasm of his 2008 campaign has certainly vanished.  What happened? In 2008, after all, not just political
pundits and regular folks were expecting big things of Obama. So
were certified leadership gurus. Warren Bennis of the University
of  Southern California  and Andy Zelleke of Harvard  praised  Obama
for possessing “that magical quality known as charisma.”  This charisma, they predicted, would give Obama “the
transformational capacity to lift the malaise that is paralyzing
so many Americans today” because “a charismatic leader could
break through the prevailing orthodoxy that the nation is
permanently divided into red and blue states ... and build a
broader sense of community, with a compelling new vision.”  There was only one problem. Obama wasn’t charismatic. He
was glamorous -- powerfully, persuasively, seductively so. His
glamour worked as well on Bennis and Zelleke as it did on
voters.  What’s the difference? Charisma moves the audience to share
a leader’s vision. Glamour, on the other hand, inspires the
audience to project its own desires onto the leader (or movie
star or tropical resort or new car): to see in the glamorous
object a symbol of escape and transformation that makes the
ideal feel attainable. The meaning of glamour, in other words,
lies entirely in the audience’s mind.  That was certainly true of Obama as a candidate. He
attracted supporters who not only disagreed with his stated
positions but, what is much rarer, believed that he did, too. On
issues such as same-sex marriage and free trade, the supporters
projected their own views onto him and assumed he was just
saying what other, less discerning voters wanted to hear.  Even well-informed observers couldn’t decide whether Obama
was a full-blown leftist or a market-oriented centrist. “Barack
has become a kind of human Rorschach test,” his friend
Cassandra Butts told  Rolling Stone  early in the campaign.
“People see in him what they want to see.”  Defying Convention  Like John Kennedy in 1960, Obama combined youth, vigor and
good looks with a vague promise of political change. Like
Kennedy, Obama was both charming and self-contained. Kennedy’s
wealth set him apart, but Obama’s mystery stemmed from his
exotic background -- an upbringing and ethnicity that defied
conventional categories and distanced him from humdrum American
life. Obama was glamorous because he was different, and his
differences mirrored his audience’s aspirations for the country.  He was the political equivalent of the seductive high heels
described by  Leora Tanenbaum  in her book “Bad Shoes”: “When
you see a pair of stilettos on display in a department store or
featured in a fashion magazine, you can imagine yourself wearing
them and becoming the kind of person who lives a magical life,
gliding around gracefully with no need for sensible, lace-up
shoes. The fantasy just might become realizable by stepping into
the shoes and inhabiting them.”  That’s glamour.  Equally glamorous was candidate Obama’s call to “a broad
majority of Americans -- Democrats, Republicans and independents
of goodwill -- who are re-engaged in the project of national
renewal.” It was an invitation to the audience to entertain
their own fantasies of what national renewal would look like.
All voters had to do was slip on the right president.  Glamour is a beautiful illusion -- the word “glamour”
originally meant a literal magic spell -- that makes the ideal
seem effortlessly attainable. Glamour hides difficulty and
distractions, creating a false and enticing sense of grace. We
see the dance, not the rehearsals; the beach resort, not the
luggage and jet lag. There are no bills on the kitchen counter,
no freckles on the pale-skinned star, no sacrifices in the
promise of change.  This illusion is hard to maintain for more than an escapist
moment. Even the most beautiful shoes are never as glamorous
once you’ve worn them and discovered they give you blisters or,
at best, didn’t transform your life. The same is true of
presidents. Familiarity breeds discontent.  Didn’t Emote Enough  Among the early signs of Obama’s dissipating glamour were
the complaints that he didn’t emote enough over the BP oil spill
-- a surprising criticism of a man whom many supporters had
 praised  for his Spock-like demeanor. But apparently not everyone
saw Spock in candidate Obama. Some saw  Bill Clinton . They
expected the president to feel their pain.  Clinton, with his obvious appetites and open eagerness to
please, was never glamorous -- no distance or mystery for him.
But Clinton was charismatic. He inspired intense loyalty, even
from supporters who disagreed with him on specific policies or
disapproved of his moral transgressions.  If you think of Barack Obama as a charismatic president, it
is hard to explain why his supporters are so angry. He should be
able to win them over. But if you understand his appeal as
glamour, then his problems aren’t surprising.  With glamour, any specific action that stands outside the
fantasy breaks the spell, alienating supporters who disagree.
Even trying to remain above the fray, as Obama often does,
infuriates those who want a fighter.  A well-established sales tool, glamour is a tremendous
asset if you’re running for office. But once you have to govern,
it’s a problem. Although charisma can continue to inspire,
glamour is guaranteed to disillusion. The only thing surprising
about Obama’s predicament is how few people expected it.  (Virginia Postrel is Bloomberg View columnist writing about
commerce and culture, innovation, economics and public policy.
She is the author of “The Future and Its Enemies” and “The
Substance of Style,” and is writing a book on glamour. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Virginia Postrel in  Los Angeles  at  vpostrel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net  