-- 
Obama Talks With Sarkozy, Merkel on Europe Crisis

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 
2011-08-05T21:31:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/obama-speaks-with-sarkozy-merkel-about-europe-debt-crisis-syria-violence.html
President Barack Obama spoke today
with French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  as European leaders struggle to calm concerns that
the region’s debt crisis and global economy will worsen.  Obama “welcomed the continued leadership” of Sarkozy and
Merkel in addressing the challenges facing Europe’s economy and
they talked about the “significant steps” taken at a July 21
summit, according to a White House statement.  The discussions, in separate telephone calls, came on the
same day that Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  called
for finance ministers from the Group of Seven nations to meet in
the coming days. G-7 finance ministers are now scheduled to meet
Sept. 9-10 in Marseille, France.  European officials are renewing efforts to stamp out the
region’s debt crisis against the backdrop of a slumping global
stock market. While the rout slowed today on optimism that
faster Italian austerity measures will prompt the  European
Central Bank  to prop up the country’s debt, Berlusconi said at a
news conference in Rome that leaders are still facing a “very
difficult situation.”  Sarkozy and Merkel also conducted calls with Berlusconi and
Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero.  Obama also spoke with Sarkozy and Merkel about the violence
against Syrians by the regime of Bashar al-Assad. The White
House statement said Obama, Merkel and Sarkozy “agreed to
consider additional steps to pressure the Assad regime and
support the Syrian people” beyond the Aug. 3 statement of
condemnation by the United Nations Security Council.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 