-- 
Obama Urges Tax Credits, ‘Reverse Boot Camp’ to Help Veterans

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   P e l h a m
-- 
2011-08-05T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/obama-urges-tax-credits-reverse-boot-camp-to-help-veterans.html
President  Barack Obama  is proposing
expanding tax credits and a “reverse boot camp” to help
veterans find jobs and adjust to civilian life as part of an
effort to curb  veteran unemployment .  Obama will visit the Washington Navy Yard today to discuss
his plans for giving veterans the support they need to join the
civilian workforce, the administration said in describing the
initiative. The aim is to give companies incentives to hire and
train as many as 100,000 workers by 2013.  “We have an obligation to make sure our veterans are able
to navigate this difficult labor market,” the administration
said in an announcement previewing Obama’s visit.  With 1 million veterans unemployed as of June and more set
to leave the military as the wars in Iraq and  Afghanistan  wind
down, the administration proposed giving companies a $2,400 tax
credit for each short-term hire and $4,800 for each long-term
job.  The credit for hiring service members with disabilities who
have been unemployed long term would be raised to as much as
$9,600. The existing credit under the government’s wounded
warrior program provides a maximum credit of $4,800.  The administration said the plans are appropriate and it
expects the public will support them. The cost would be about
$120 million, the administration estimated, with the tax credits
designed to be temporary and alleviate unemployment during the
sluggish recovery from the recession.  The reverse boot camp is intended to prepare service
members for employment and offer education options when they
leave the military, the administration said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Pelham in Washington at 
 vpelham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  