-- 
Mobius Sees Resilience in Emerging Markets as Faber Predicts U.S. Rebound

-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 
2011-08-05T06:23:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/mobius-says-stocks-looking-better-as-marc-faber-predicts-s-p-500-rally.html
Templeton Asset Management’s  Mark Mobius  said emerging economies are in “better shape” than
developed nations amid turmoil roiling global markets.  Marc Faber , publisher of the Gloom, Boom & Doom report, expects the
U.S. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to rally about 40-to-50 points.  The  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  slumped 60.27 points, or 4.8 percent
yesterday, the biggest percentage drop since February 2009, as
concern the global economy is weakening prompted a global rout.
The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of global stocks entered a so-called
correction yesterday, falling more than 10 percent from this
year’s high, amid a seven-day sell-off that wiped out more than
$4.4 trillion from market values worldwide.  “We’re looking at equities all the time and equities are
looking better and better with all this turmoil,” Mobius, who
oversees about $50 billion as executive chairman of Templeton's 
emerging markets group, said in a Bloomberg Television interview 
today. “The emerging markets are in much better shape than the
developed countries. If you look at the gross domestic product
levels, foreign exchange reserves, emerging markets are in a
very, very sweet spot.”  Developing economies may grow 6.6 percent this year,
compared with “advanced” nations’ 2.2 percent, according to
estimates from the  International Monetary Fund  in June.
Indonesia’s GDP expanded 6.49 percent in the three months to
June from a year earlier, the statistics bureau reported today,
the third straight quarter that growth has exceeded 6 percent.  ‘Extremely Oversold’  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index dropped 3.1 percent as of
2:02 p.m. in  Hong Kong , taking its four-day slump to 9.4
percent. While the gauge is set for its biggest four-day decline
since November 2008, its decrease today is less than the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index’s 4 percent slump, the most since March 15.  Markets are “extremely oversold,” Faber, 65, said in a
separate Bloomberg Television interview. He expects a “snap-
back” rally in the  S&P 500  though doesn’t expect new highs for
equities in 2011.  Chief strategists at 13 banks from Barclays Plc to UBS AG
see the S&P 500 surging 17 percent through Dec. 31, the average
estimate in a Bloomberg survey. Their projection that the index
will reach 1,401 hasn’t budged in four weeks, while mounting
concern U.S. growth is slowing drove the S&P 500 down 11 percent
since July 22, including yesterday’s tumble.  The U.S. gauge closed yesterday at 1,200.07, the lowest
level since Nov. 30. Futures on the gauge dropped 0.1 percent to
1,197.30 today. About $1.8 trillion has been erased from
American equities as reports on manufacturing and consumer
spending showed the world’s largest economy is slowing.  Federal Reserve   “I don’t see a double-dip situation in the U.S. simply
because of the amount of liquidity in the system that could go
in with further easing by the central bank,” Mobius, 74, said
by phone from  Tokyo .  U.S. Federal Reserve policymakers meet for one day on Aug.
9. At their last meeting in June, Fed officials decided to keep
the central bank’s balance sheet at a record to spur the slowing
economy after completing $600 billion of bond purchases.  Mobius joined Templeton in 1987 to help oversee emerging
market investments, according to a biography posted on the fund
company’s website. His Templeton Emerging Markets Fund gained
9.6 percent in the year to yesterday, compared with the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index’s 6.1 percent increase.  Thailand , Vietnam and  Indonesia  are of “particular
interest” to Templeton, Mobius said. Thailand, where Yingluck Shinawatra is expected to become the nation’s first female prime
minister after an election victory last month, is “right at the
top of our list,” Mobius said.  Thailand’s SET Index gained 3.1 percent in the month to
yesterday, the second-best performance among Asian benchmark
gauges, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  