-- 
Lojas Americanas Rises Most in 3 Months on Earnings Surprise; B2W Retreats

-- B y   F a b i o l a   M o u r a
-- 
2011-08-05T21:08:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/lojas-americanas-advances-as-profit-beats-estimates-b2w-plunges-on-loss.html
Lojas Americanas SA (LAME4) ,  Brazil ’s second-
largest retailer by market value, posted the biggest gain in
more than a month after reporting better-than-forecast earnings,
helping spur the first rally in consumer stocks this week.  Americanas, based in  Rio de Janeiro , rose 4 percent to
13.92 reais in Sao Paulo trading, the biggest jump since June
28. MSCI Inc.’s index of 11 Brazilian consumer discretionary
stocks advanced 1.4 percent, trimming its worst weekly decline
since 2008.  While retailers from Natura Cosmeticos SA to B2W Cia.
Global de Varejo published second-quarter results that were
worse than analysts anticipated, Americanas beat estimates with
a 1.6 percent increase in net income. The company opened 70 new
stores in Brazil in 2010 and 30 stores this year.  “They are in a very strong expansion process,” Renato Prado, an analyst at Fator Corretora, said in a telephone
interview from  Sao Paulo  before the earnings release. Fator has
a “buy” recommendation on the stock.  B2W, Brazil’s biggest online retailer and a unit of
Americanas, fell 2.7 percent to 12.95 reais, after reporting a
second-quarter loss. The company recovered most of an earlier
9.8 percent decline after Francois Bloquiau, B2W’s investor
relations officer, said today on a conference call with analysts
to expect sales growth of 10 percent or more in the second half
of the year.  Profit Climbs  Lojas Americanas’s net income increased to 38.1 million
reais ($23.9 million), from 37.5 million reais a year earlier,
the company said late yesterday in a statement on its website.
The median estimate for profit excluding some items was 37.9
million reais in a Bloomberg survey of seven analysts.  An Easter Sunday in April, compared with March last year,
boosted sales o seasonal items such as chocolate eggs. Net sales
rose 24 percent to 1.44 billion reais from a year earlier.  The stock extended gains as Investor Relations Officer
Murilo Correa said in a conference call that the company is
“optimistic” it will open 101 stores in 2011.  B2W’s net sales rose 3 percent to 982.6 million reais. The
company has been facing logistics problems, as well as tougher
competition in e-commerce and from imports, because of the
stronger Brazilian real, according to Prado. The currency has
climbed 10.4 percent against the dollar in the past 12 months.  “They’ve been growing below market rhythm and below
expectations, so they’ve been losing market share,” Prado said.  B2W, the worst performer in the benchmark Bovespa index
since the end of 2009, is under investigation by Brazil’s
Justice Ministry over delays in deliveries at its online unit
Americanas.com.  Delivery Delays  The ministry wants to find out if B2W’s goods are facing
delays across the country after the Rio de Janeiro-based company
was banned from selling product in its home state because of the
problems, according to a June 10 statement.  Lojas Americanas slumped 7 percent this year, compared with
a 58 percent decline for B2W and a 24 percent drop in the
Bovespa benchmark index, which entered a  bear market  on July 27.
The MSCI index of Brazilian consumer discretionary stocks is
down 14 percent this week and 25 percent this year.  Net income for Natura,  Latin America ’s largest cosmetics
company, fell to 188.1 million reais from 191.5 million reais a
year earlier, the Cajamar-based company said in a regulatory
filing July 20. The mean profit estimate by eight analysts
compiled by Bloomberg was 212.8 million reais.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabiola Moura in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  