-- 
Money Market Stress Surges to Year High Amid Stocks Rout on Growth Concern

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-08-05T10:36:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/money-market-stress-surges-to-year-high-amid-stocks-rout-on-growth-concern.html
Gauges of stress in money markets
surged to the highest in at least a year as stocks and
commodities tumbled on concern the global economic recovery is
faltering.  The TED spread, the difference between what lenders and the
U.S. government pay to borrow for three months, widened to 26.4
basis points in  London  today, the most since Aug. 5. A gauge of
bank funding stress in Australia climbed to 47 basis points, the
highest since March 2009.  Investors are fleeing riskier assets as policy makers in
the U.S. and  Europe  grapple with debt crises amid signs of
slowing economic growth. While signs of money-market turmoil are
increasing, they remain far below the levels reached as the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. sparked a global
credit freeze in 2008.  “I don’t think we’re out of control yet,” said  Adam Carr ,
senior economist in Sydney at ICAP Australia Ltd., part of the
world’s largest interdealer broker. “The market’s telling you
it’s afraid, but we’re not beyond the point of no return.”  The TED Spread peaked at 463 basis points on Oct. 10, 2008.
In  Australia , the gap between the interest banks pay to borrow
from each other for three months and swaps that track
expectations for the central bank’s benchmark rate reached as
high as 144 basis points on Oct. 7 the same year.  Europe Crisis  Over opposition from  Germany ’s Bundesbank, European Central
Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet yesterday sent the ECB back
into bond markets as yields on Italian and Spanish yields
soared, threatening the ability of the euro region’s third- and
fourth-largest economies to borrow.  As the sell-off continued, traders said the ECB purchased
only Irish and Portuguese securities, suggesting the central
bank is reluctant to put up the funds needed to tame a crisis it
says governments are responsible for fixing.  The three-month Euribor-OIS spread, a gauge of banks’
reluctance to lend, rose to 55.3 basis points in London today,
the most since May 18, 2009.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index plunged 4.8 percent
yesterday to an eight-month low. U.S. options prices soared the
most in four years and volume jumped to a record 35 million
contracts as investors rushed to buy protection against greater
stock-market losses.  Consumer confidence  in the U.S. dropped last week to the
lowest level in more than two months amid political wrangling
over raising the debt ceiling and a stagnant job market.  The turmoil in financial markets is due to political
“incompetence” in Europe and the U.S., and global economic
growth prospects still look solid, said Carr.  “Markets are nervous, people are nervous, and the problem
is, there’s no real catalyst for it,” he said. “This is fear
driving fear, and as we saw in 2008, that can have devastating
consequences.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net . 