-- 
Money Funds Get $38 Billion Deposits as Flows Reverse After Debt Agreement

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 
2011-08-05T23:02:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/money-funds-get-38-billion-after-debt-deal.html
Investors who sought safety in bank
accounts during the U.S. debt ceiling debate have begun
returning to money market funds and Treasuries.  Money-market mutual funds took in $38 billion in the past
three days, according to research firm Crane Data LLC. Deposits
from money managers and other clients at custody bank  Northern
Trust Corp. (NTRS)  have subsided since lawmakers agreed to raise the
U.S. debt ceiling, said Amy Bickers, a spokeswoman for the
Chicago-based company.  The debt ceiling debate, which Congress and the White House
resolved the same day the Treasury Department said the
government would run out of money, spurred investors to withdraw
$103 billion from money market mutual funds in the week ended
Aug. 2, according to research firm iMoneyNet. Unusually high
cash deposits prompted  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , the
largest custody bank, to impose fees of 0.13 percent on some
accounts.  “The BNY Mellon situation was definitely exacerbated by
the debt ceiling debacle, and we are seeing it reverse itself in
the last three days,” Lyman Missimer, head of global cash
management and municipals at Atlanta-based Invesco Ltd., said in
an e-mail.  The deposits helped push money-market rates, which surged
during the debate to raise the federal borrowing cap, below zero
percent yesterday.  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis also bolstered
U.S. government securities’ appeal as the world’s safest assets.  ‘Excess’ Deposits  The cost of one-month  repurchase agreements  for government-
backed mortgage securities has fallen to 17 basis points, after
reaching 38 basis points on Aug. 1, the highest since Dec. 29,
according to data from ICAP Plc, the world’s largest inter-
dealer broker. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  BNY Mellon said yesterday it will charge customers with
more than $50 million 13 basis points, or 0.13 percentage point,
for “excess” deposits after a flight to safety left the bank
with elevated cash levels. The fee is intended to help bolster
the balance sheet and cover the cost of insuring the deposits,
the bank told clients.  When markets stabilize and cash levels drop “it is likely
this fee will no longer be necessary,” the bank said.  Heavy deposits at custody banks were “a temporary
phenomenon related to the debt-ceiling deal going down to the
wire,”  Deborah Cunningham , who oversees $266 billion in  money
market funds  at Pittsburgh’s Federated Investors Inc., said in
an e-mail.  Returning to Market  Northern Trust experienced a marginal increase in deposits
leading up to Aug. 2, and those cash balances have since
subsided, Bickers said.  Carolyn Cichon, a spokeswoman for Boston-based  State Street
Corp. (STT) , the third-largest custody bank, and Ron Sommer, a
spokesman for BNY Mellon, declined to comment on whether client
deposits had subsided.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the second-largest custody bank, has
been getting deposits and is trying to direct customers into
JPMorgan Asset Management’s money market funds, said a person
familiar with the bank, who asked not to be named.  News of BNY Mellon’s decision to impose a deposit fee
coincided with a global rout in equities that drove the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index to its worst slump since February 2009. The
 S&P 500 , which tumbled 4.8 percent yesterday, declined 0.1
percent to 1,199.38 today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  