-- 
Los Angeles Dodgers, Major League Baseball Agree to Bankruptcy Loan Terms

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-08-05T18:19:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/los-angeles-dodgers-baseball-agree-to-financial-terms-on-bankruptcy-loan.html
The Los Angeles Dodgers agreed to
borrow as much as $150 million from  Major League Baseball ,
almost two weeks after the judge overseeing the team’s
bankruptcy ordered the two sides to negotiate a deal.  The Dodgers today sought a judge’s approval for terms of
the loan, which would finance the team’s operations while it is
under court protection in Wilmington,  Delaware . Without approval
of the so-called debtor-in-possession loan, the Dodgers “will
be immediately and irreparably harmed,” the team said in court
papers.  Last month, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross sided with
baseball after a 10-hour hearing where the two sides attacked
each other’s motives related to the MLB loan and a competing
deal from  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s Highbridge Capital Management
LLC. MLB’s offer doesn’t require collateral and has a lower
 interest rate  and fees than the Highbridge loan, Gross found.  The Dodgers accused Baseball Commissioner Bud Selig of
trying to use the loan to gain control of the team. In his
decision last month, Gross said he expected baseball not to use
the loan to punish the Dodgers for breaking any MLB rules.  The loan terms submitted today don’t allow MLB to cut off
funds or raise the interest rate should the team violate
baseball’s constitution.  “The Dodgers view the DIP negotiated with MLB as
satisfactory to the debtor, both in its economics and its
terms,” Lyndsey Estin, a team spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Variable Rate  The loan will carry a variable interest rate based on the
London Interbank Offered Rate, plus 6.5 percent, according to
the loan agreement.  The Dodgers filed for bankruptcy in June after Selig
rejected a proposed cable-television rights deal team owner
 Frank McCourt  negotiated with  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Sports. Team
lawyers said in court they intend to try to sell those rights
while in bankruptcy and will propose rules for marketing them
this month.  Fox has said in court that it would oppose any effort to
sell the rights before its exclusive right to negotiate a deal
expires next year.  McCourt began feuding with Selig before the bankruptcy,
accusing the commissioner of unfairly imposing a monitor to
oversee the Dodgers and treating him more harshly than other
owners who have had financial difficulties.  Selig has accused McCourt of mismanaging the Dodgers and
violating baseball’s constitution, in part by filing bankruptcy
without first seeking approval.  Gross has said the two sides will have a chance in the
coming months to battle over how the team should reorganize. In
the proposed financing order, MLB is barred from refusing to
fund the loan should the Dodgers continue fighting baseball in
court.  The case is In re  Los Angeles Dodgers  LLC, 11-12010,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 