-- 
Express Scripts Bid for Medco Needs Hearing, U.S. Lawmaker Says

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-08-06T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/house-democrat-says-express-scripts-medco-bid-requires-hearing.html
Express Scripts Inc. (ESRX) ’s $29.1 billion
bid for  Medco Health Solutions Inc. (MHS)  may face scrutiny from the
U.S. House Judiciary Committee after the panel’s top Democrat
questioned whether the deal is anticompetitive.  The panel should evaluate how the deal will affect health
insurance and drug costs, Representative John Conyers of
Michigan said in a letter yesterday to Committee Chairman  Lamar Smith , a Texas Republican.  Express Scripts’s plan to form the biggest U.S. pharmacy
benefits manager requires approval by U.S. antitrust regulators.
The customer base of the St. Louis-based company would rise 50
percent to 135 million if the purchase is cleared, according to
 Arthur Henderson , an analyst at Jefferies & Co. in Nashville,
Tennessee. The biggest rival,  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS) , based in
Woonsocket, Rhode Island, serves 85 million people.  A congressional hearing allows lawmakers to “examine how
the merger would affect competition, American employers,
consumers, patients and pharmacists,” Conyers said in the
letter. Kim Smith, a spokeswoman for committee Republicans,
didn’t respond yesterday to an e-mail seeking comment on the
lawmaker’s request.  Pharmacy benefits managers act as middlemen among
drugmakers, pharmacies and health-plan sponsors to negotiate
prices and manage the use of drugs by patients.  Express Scripts will tell regulators the combined company
would “drive costs out of the system,” in part by extracting
lower prices from drugmakers and tracking whether patients take
their medicines, Chief Executive Officer George Paz said July 21
on an analyst call.  Trade groups representing drugstore chains and independent
pharmacists are urging regulators to reject the deal, saying it
would squelch competition and undermine patient care.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 