-- 
Pakistan’s Lucky Cement Plans $175 Million Congo Plant With Groupe Rawji

-- B y   F a r h a n   S h a r i f   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 
2011-08-05T04:15:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/pakistan-s-lucky-cement-plans-175-million-congo-plant-with-groupe-rawji.html
Lucky Cement Ltd. (LUCK) ,  Pakistan ’s biggest
producer of the building material, plans to form a joint venture
with Groupe Rawji of Democratic Republic of Congo to build a one
million-ton capacity plant in the African nation.  The factory will be completed in about three years after
construction begins in the next 3-5 months, Abid Muhammad Ganatra, director of finance at Lucky Cement, said in a
telephone interview on Aug. 3.  Lucky Cement will pay $40 million for a 50 percent stake in
the project, it said in a statement to the  Karachi Stock
Exchange  on Aug. 1. As much as 54 percent of the $175 million
cost for the factory will be raised through debt from
multilateral institutions, according to the company.  Groupe Rawji  is in talks with Lucky Cement to set up the
factory, Pravin Sawant, the group’s chief financial officer,
said in a telephone interview yesterday from Congo.  Lucky Cement is planning the factory in Congo as the nation
seeks to rebuild infrastructure destroyed in more than a decade
of war that started in the mid-1990s.  Germany ’s HeidelbergCement
AG last year agreed to buy a majority stake in three cement
plants that account for about two-thirds of the country’s
output.  Factories in Congo produce 780,000 tons of cement annually,
less than a quarter of the annual requirement of 3.2 million
tons, according to the nation’s Portfolio Ministry. In May, the
government removed tariffs on imported cement to help the
 construction industry .  Groupe Rawji began operations in Congo in 1910, according
to its website. Its businesses include trading, manufacturing
and banking.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Farhan Sharif in Karachi at 
 fsharif2@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Merritt  at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  