-- 
U.S. Payroll Gain Was Likely Too Small to Cut Unemployment

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-08-05T08:18:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/payroll-gain-in-u-s-was-probably-too-small-to-cut-unemployment.html
American employers probably failed to
create enough jobs in July to reduce the jobless rate, showing
anxiety over government debt deliberations and a slowdown in
 consumer spending  have shaken confidence, economists said before
a report today.  Payrolls climbed by 85,000 workers after an 18,000 increase
in June that was the smallest this year, according to the median
forecast of 88 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before a
Labor Department report. The jobless rate held at 9.2 percent
after rising in each of the previous three months.  Limited job gains and concern the economic recovery will be
cut short led U.S. equities to their biggest slump since
February 2009 yesterday. Slowing growth puts more pressure on
Federal Reserve policy makers meeting next week to try to steer
the world’s largest economy away from another recession at a
time when inflation is also accelerating.  “The labor market is slowing towards stall speed,” said
Patrick O’Keefe, chief economist at J.H. Cohn LLP in Roseland,
 New Jersey . “Employers were certainly seeing a decline, or
leveling off, in demand for goods and services.”  The Labor Department’s data are due at 8:30 a.m. in
Washington. Bloomberg payroll survey estimates range from no
change to a 150,000 increase.  Private payrolls, which exclude government jobs, rose
113,000 after a gain of 57,000 in the prior month, economists
forecast the employment report will also show.  Less Growth  The economy grew at a less-than-forecast 1.3 percent pace
in the second quarter following revised growth of 0.4 percent in
the first three months of the year that was less than previously
estimated, Commerce Department figures showed last week.
Consumer spending grew 0.1 percent, the smallest gain since the
second quarter of 2009, the final months of the recession.  The dollar fell 0.4 percent against the euro to $1.4148 per
euro as of 9:03 a.m. in  London . U.S. bonds rose, pushing the 10-
year yield down 2 basis points to 2.39 percent.  The two-year-old recovery’s staying power may be
diminishing as consumers and the government pare spending, say
five of the nine economists on the academic panel that dates
recessions.  Harvard University economics professor  Martin Feldstein 
said he sees a 50 percent chance of a renewed recession. He is a
member of the committee that dates recessions for the  National
Bureau of Economic Research .  “This economy is really balanced on the edge,” Feldstein
said in a Bloomberg Television interview Aug. 2 on
“Surveillance Midday” with  Tom Keene .  Less Hiring  Recent data have shown a deteriorating labor market. The
 Institute for Supply Management ’s July manufacturing employment
index was the lowest since December 2009, the group said this
week. Its services gauge also fell. Announced job cuts surged to
a 16-month high last month, global outplacement consultant
Challenger, Gray & Christmas Inc. reported Aug. 3.  The projected gain in payrolls would bring the average from
May through July to 43,000, down from 215,000 in the previous
three months.  Increases of around 125,000 a month are needed to keep the
 unemployment rate  steady, while about 200,000 a month would
bring it down a percentage point over a year, according to
 Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont Securities LLC in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Through June, the economy had recovered about 1.77 million
of the 8.75 million jobs lost as a result of the 18-month
recession that began in December 2007.  In his semi-annual testimony to Congress last month, Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the “economy still needs a good
deal of support.”  Jobs ‘Weakness’  “The most recent data attest to the continuing weakness of
the labor market,” Bernanke said on July 13. “It’s improving
very slowly in terms of jobs regained. Wages are very stagnant
and that’s affecting consumer spending and  consumer confidence .
There is also ongoing uncertainty about the durability of the
recovery.”  The drop in shares this week was accompanied by a surge in
 Treasury securities  on concern the economy was faltering. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 4.8 percent yesterday, the
most since February 2009. Yields on two-year Treasury notes slid
to the lowest on record.  Some companies are firing workers to keep costs down as the
economy slows and concern builds over European  default risk .  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the largest networking-equipment maker,
plans to eliminate about 6,500 jobs, or 9 percent of its full-
time global workforce, to help trim $1 billion in annual costs
and step up profit growth.  The job cuts will come from across the company and aren’t
concentrated in a single unit, said Karen Tillman, a company
spokeswoman, in an interview July 18. The company said affected
workers in the U.S. and  Canada  will be notified this week.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  