-- 
Pentagon Grocery Stores, Troops May Lose in $825 Billion Cuts

-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 
2011-08-05T04:01:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/pentagon-grocery-stores-troops-may-lose-in-825-billion-cuts.html
The Pentagon’s chain of subsidized
grocery stores to major weapons systems and troop strength may
be on the chopping block to pay for as much as $825 billion in
budget reductions that Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  said would
inflict “real damage” on the U.S. military.  The Defense Department is facing the largest reduction in
spending since the end of the  Cold War , when military budgets
 declined by about 35 percent  in constant dollar terms between
1985 and 1998, according to Pentagon data.  To meet its targets, the Pentagon may have to consider cuts
in a range of programs, from the number of F-35 fighter jets to
the $9 billion in subsidies for the Defense Commissary Agency,
which operates 252 grocery stores around the world. Reducing the
size of the 1.43 million active duty forces may yield the most
savings.  President  Barack Obama  signed a measure Aug. 2 raising the
$14.3 trillion U.S. debt ceiling until 2013 and reducing $2.4
trillion in spending over the next decade. The deal requires
$325 billion reduction in the  defense budget  in the first phase
over 10 years. Officials would begin by eliminating $28 billion
from the 2012 budget request.  Another $500 billion in military spending may be cut over
the next decade, for a total of $825 billion, if a special
committee of lawmakers can’t agree by November on $1.2 trillion
in deficit savings. That spending reduction would “trigger a
round of dangerous across-the-board defense cuts” that may do
“real damage” to the U.S. military, Panetta said, calling it a
“doomsday mechanism.”  Menu of Options  The Pentagon already is conducting a review to identify
programs that will meet the $325 billion goal, he said. Cutting
another half a trillion dollars would produce an outcome that
“would be completely unacceptable” and no contingency plans to
do so are under consideration, Panetta said yesterday at a news
conference.  Still, as the Defense Department is forced to excise
programs, it has a menu of options that several studies have
identified over the years, said  Gordon Adams , a professor at the
American University in  Washington .  The choices range from about $31.2 billion in weapons cuts
identified in November by former Senator  Alan Simpson  and former
White House Official Erskine Bowles, co-chairs of the National
Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform, to $1 trillion
in reductions that Senator  Tom Coburn , an Oklahoma Republican,
laid out in his July report “ Back in Black .”  ‘Done this before’  Defense spending typically declines when wars end, Adams
said. In constant dollars, the Pentagon’s budget declined 40
percent between 1952 and 1958 after the Korean War buildup,
according to Defense Department data.  “We have done this before,” said Adams, a former official
in the White House Office of Management and Budget during the
Clinton administration. “Even at $800 billion below what is
currently forecast for defense, the sky does not fall and the
U.S. military will survive.”  Defense spending, including war costs, rose to $717 billion
in fiscal year 2010, or a 92 percent increase from 1998. From
that peak, an $825 billion reduction in projected spending over
the next 10 years would approximately amount to an 18 percent
decline in nominal terms or 34 percent in constant dollars,
according to a Bloomberg Government analysis. The projections
don’t include future war-related spending while the White House
estimates include $50 billion annually for conflicts through to
2021.  The cuts may mean the Pentagon has to scale back its
 strategy for fighting two conventional wars  as well as worldwide
counterinsurgency missions, Adams said.  Troop Strength  The U.S. has about  1.43 million active duty military 
personnel, including 570,719 in the Army, 335,038 in the  Air
Force , 328,227 in the Navy and 201,466 in the Marine Corps,
according to the Pentagon.  For every reduction of 10,000 military personnel the U.S.
saves about $1 billion annually, said Adams.  Former Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  in January said the
Army strength will be reduced by 27,000 starting in 2015 and the
Marines’ head count will decline by about 20,000. Both services
may have to cut more, Adams said.  Reforming the Pentagon’s health care and military
compensation system may yield additional savings, Adams said.
Still, lawmakers shy away from the measure because it reduces
benefits, Adams said. “That’s the third rail.”  The  Congressional Budget Office  in a June 2009 report said
reforming the military’s Tri-Care health-care system could save
as much as $60 billion by 2020.  F-35 Jets  Reducing the military’s strength may allow the Pentagon to
avoid buying new weapons and equipment needed for a larger
force.  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, the
Pentagon’s largest program at $382 billion, is in the crosshairs
of several deficit-reduction studies. None of them have been
endorsed by the Pentagon.  Canceling or delaying the U.S. Air Force version of the F-
35 jet and replacing it with a more modern version of the F-16
plane, also made by Lockheed, would save about $47.9 billion,
according to  “Debt, Deficits, & Defense,”  published in June
2010.  The report was prepared by the Sustainable Defense  Task
Force , whose members were drawn from 14 think tanks including
the  Cato Institute , the  New America Foundation  and Taxpayers for
Common Sense.  The Pentagon plans to buy 2,443 F-35 planes whose
development has been delayed and costs have grown.  V-22 Osprey  The Task Force and the Bowles-Simpson proposals also
recommended eliminating the Expeditionary Fighting Vehicle
developed by  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  for the Marine Corps. Gates
agreed, cutting it out of the Pentagon’s 2012 budget proposal
that is awaiting congressional approval.  Both panels proposed capping production of the V-22 Osprey,
a Marine Corps tilt-rotor aircraft made by Boeing and  Textron
Inc. (TXT) , at 288 planes. Sikorsky Aircraft Corp.’s MH-60 Black Hawks
could be substituted, they said. Halting V-22 production would
save as much as $12 billion, the Debt, Deficits & Defense study
said.  The Pentagon intends to buy another 122 V-22s valued at
about $8 billion in addition to the 174 already on contract,
Sean Stackley, the Navy’s top weapons buyer said.  The number of Navy aircraft carriers may also decline from
the current 11.  Spending cuts may extend beyond people and weapons to other
expenditures not directly tied to military operations.  Grocery Stores  If the Defense Commissary Agency were a private
corporation, it would be one of the largest grocery-store chains
with about $6 billion in annual sales, Coburn said in his
report. Previous administrations have attempted to eliminate the
subsidy and failed because retirees including military chiefs of
staff are loath to give up that benefit, Adams said.  Reducing overhead costs alone may contribute as much as
$120 billion of defense spending, Gates said on his last day in
office.  Such costs were $212 billion in the 2010 fiscal year,
larger than the gross domestic product of  Israel , a July 2010
report prepared by the Defense Business Board said. Its members
include management consultants, former executives of defense
contractors and retired defense officials.  The group, whose annual operating cost is about  $750,000 ,
advises the defense secretary about “best business practices,”
according to its website. If the overhead cost was a “separate
country, it would  rank 49th in GDP ” among the world’s nations,
the advisory board said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net  