-- 
Peru Bonds Rise Third Week as Investors Seek Haven Outside U.S.

-- B y   B r y a n   G i b e l
-- 
2011-08-05T20:58:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/peru-bonds-rise-third-week-as-investors-seek-haven-outside-u-s-.html
Peruvian bonds rose for the third
week in a row as investors speculated that the South American
country could provide a haven from global market turmoil.  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-
denominated bond due August 2020 fell seven basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, to 6.13 percent this week, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg. The bond’s price rose 0.52 centimo
during the week to 111.67 centimos per sol.  Global stock markets tumbled yesterday as  Europe  continued
to struggle with a months-long debt crisis that threatens to
spread from  Greece  to Spain and Italy and concern mounted over
an economic slowdown in the U.S. Doubts about the safety of
investments in the developed world increased demand for assets
in countries viewed as having sound fiscal policies, such as
 Peru , said  Hugo Perea , the chief economist at BBVA Banco
Continental.  “There is a different trend during this period of global
turmoil than what we’ve seen before,” Perea said in a telephone
interview from  Lima . “We have seen capital inflows from outside
the country. Foreign investors are taking more positions in
emerging-market bonds in countries like Peru that are fiscally
sound.”  Peruvian bonds have also benefitted from signs the
government of President Ollanta Humala, who took office July 28,
will defend policies that have fueled growth, Perea said.  “The new government has given signals that have been well
received by the market,” he said. “It has confirmed that it
will maintain economically orthodox policies, which has helped
strengthen investor confidence.”  The sol was little changed today at 2.7406 per  U.S. dollar ,
from 2.7405 yesterday. It fell 0.1 percent for the week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Gibel in New York at 
 bgibel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  