-- 
Peso Bonds Beating Russian Debt on Rate Outlook: Mexico Credit

-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   A n d r e s   M a r t i n e z
-- 
2011-08-05T21:45:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/peso-bonds-beating-russian-debt-on-rate-outlook-mexico-credit.html
Mexican bonds are rallying more than
debt from similarly rated nations on speculation the central
bank will keep  interest rates  at a record low.  The yield on peso bonds due in 2024 plunged 38 basis points
this week, the most since the period ended March 27, 2009, to
6.43 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yields on
similar-maturity local debt from  Russia , which shares Mexico’s
Baa1 rating by Moody’s Investors Service, fell two basis points,
or 0.02 percentage point, to 7.69 percent through yesterday. The
yield on bonds from  South Africa , rated one level higher at A3,
dropped 27 basis points this week through today to 8.21 percent.  Growing evidence that economic expansion in the U.S., which
buys 80 percent of Mexican exports, is in jeopardy prompted
traders to push back estimates for a rate increase in the Latin
American country for the 12th time this year yesterday. Bank of
America yesterday cut its forecast for Mexican growth, citing
the impact of slowing demand from the U.S.  “It’s a grim world out there,” said  Edwin Gutierrez , who
helps manage about $7 billion of emerging-market debt, including
Mexican bonds, at Aberdeen Asset Management in  London . “The
fact that rates are going to remain lower for longer just leads
to continued support for global fixed-income markets, including
and especially emerging markets. Mexico’s central bank is
definitely on hold for the foreseeable future.”  Yields on the 28-day futures due in June, known as TIIE,
show traders are betting  Banco de Mexico , the only central bank
in a major Latin American country to leave its benchmark rate
unchanged in the past year, will wait until June to raise it
from 4.5 percent.  Manufacturing Slows  A central bank press official didn’t return calls for
comment.  Manufacturing in Mexico slowed in July to the lowest level
in two years as demand weakened in the U.S., the Mexican
Institute of Finance Executives, or IMEF, said Aug. 3.  A report this week showed that  service industries  in the
U.S. expanded in July at the slowest pace in 17 months as orders
and employment cooled. Economic figures in the U.S. in the last
two weeks have shown declining home sales, weaker factory
orders, waning  consumer confidence  and the first decrease in
household spending in two years.  ‘Most Impacted’  “Mexico is perhaps the economy that is the most impacted
by this downward revision of the growth outlook for the U.S,”
 Alberto Ramos , an economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in New
York, said in a telephone interview. “People are now moving in
the direction that rate hikes in 2012 are tentative. Actually, I
wouldn’t be surprised if the first rate hikes take place in
2013.”  Goldman Sachs today cut its forecast for Mexican economic
growth in 2011 to 4.1 percent from 4.4 percent. For 2012, the
company cut its forecast to 3.9 percent from 4.5 percent.  Concern the world’s biggest economy may relapse into a
recession sparked the biggest decline in  Mexico ’s benchmark IPC
stock index in 15 months yesterday and the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index fell the most since February 2009.  “While Mexico is involved in the same uncertainty as the
rest of the world, it’s not the same, we have certain
strengths,” Finance Minister  Ernesto Cordero  said yesterday at
an event in Mexico City. “We should take advantage of them.”  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell eight basis points
to 139 at 5:31 p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years rose six basis points to 129 basis points, according
to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if
a government or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  ‘Bounce Back’  The peso rose 0.5 percent to 11.9914 per  U.S. dollar ,
increasing the currency’s gains this year to 2.9 percent.  The rally in Mexican peso bonds may wane if demand for
higher-yielding assets rebounds and U.S. economic data begins to
improve, said  Igor Arsenin , head of Latin America strategy at
Credit Suisse Group AG in  New York .  “One can argue this rally can continue, but clearly we
came a long way,” Arsenin said in a telephone interview. “If
there is any good data, we can bounce back a little bit.”  Ezequiel Aguirre, an economist at Bank of America, lowered
his estimate for Mexico’s economic expansion to 4 percent from
4.5 percent this year.  “Recent data flow showing a shaky outlook in the U.S. will
likely have an impact on Mexico,” New York-based Aguirre wrote
in a report yesterday.  Mexico’s economy grew 5.4 percent last year, the most in a
decade. The central bank forecasts gross domestic product may
expand as much as 4.5 percent.  “We saw that softness developing in the U.S. over the past
two or three months,” Goldman Sachs’s Ramos said. “Now it
seems to be trickling down to industrial activity in Mexico.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net ;
Andres R. Martinez in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  