-- 
Pfizer Said to Have Team Exploring Over-the-Counter Lipitor

-- B y   T o m   R a n d a l l
-- 
2011-08-05T21:36:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/pfizer-said-to-have-team-exploring-over-the-conter-version-of-lipitor.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s biggest
drugmaker, is studying whether its Lipitor cholesterol pill can
be sold as an over-the-counter medicine, according to a person
familiar with the discussions.  The company hasn’t determined whether the U.S.  Food and
Drug Administration  would allow the drug to be sold without a
prescription, the person said. Pfizer has assembled a team to
examine the feasibility of a switch to over-the-counter sales,
as well as other options for the medicine, said the person, who
asked not to be named because the deliberations are private.  Lipitor, the best-selling drug in the world with $10.7
billion in sales last year, loses U.S. patent exclusivity in
November. Previous attempts to sell over-the-counter versions of
cholesterol-lowering drugs, including Merck & Co.’s Mevacor and
Zocor, were unsuccessful because of the side effects. Patients
using Lipitor need regular tests of their cholesterol and liver
functioning, according to the drug’s label.  “There is no reason to think that somehow where Mevacor
and Zocor failed, Lipitor would be successful,”  David Maris , an
analyst with CLSA in New York, said in an e-mail. “This also
would not be a savings to consumers, just to insurance
companies, managed-care plans and the government,” he said.  MacKay Jimeson, a spokesman for New York-based Pfizer,
declined to comment on the company’s plans to pursue an over-
the-counter version of Lipitor.  ‘Strategic Plans’  “We can confirm that we have strategic plans in place for
Lipitor’s loss of exclusivity,” Jimeson said.  Pfizer gained 13 cents to $17.49 at 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The drugmaker has gained 8
percent in the past 12 months.  In order to sell Lipitor without a prescription, Pfizer
must show that patients can safely diagnose themselves and use
the drug properly, said Shelly Burgess, a spokeswoman for the
FDA. No cholesterol-lowering drug, or statin, has been able to
do that, she said.  “They would have to provide data to show that consumers
understand the treatment and recognize that cholesterol-
monitoring is required,” Burgess said. In previous studies
“most study participants made mistakes and chose to take the
proposed over-the-counter statin when they should not have done
that.”  Drugs with U.S. sales of more than $1 billion a year
typically lose 73 percent of revenue in the first three months
after generic copies are introduced, according to an analysis by
Bloomberg Industries. Pfizer successfully took its allergy
medicine, Zyrtec, over-the-counter in 2008 before selling its
consumer unit that year to Johnson & Johnson for $16.6 billion.  Pfizer last month completed a review of four business units
for possible sale or divesture. The company decided to keep the
consumer unit that it gained in the 2009 acquisition of Wyeth
and its established products unit, which makes generic drugs and
branded versions of drugs with expired patents. The company said
it plans to sell its animal health and baby formula units.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Randall in  New York  at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  