-- 
Philippine Peso Completes Worst Week in 2011 on Possible Curbs

-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 
2011-08-05T09:03:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/philippine-peso-completes-worst-week-in-2011-on-possible-curbs.html
The Philippine peso completed its
biggest weekly slide this year on concern the central bank will
curb volatility in the currency and as demand for emerging-
market assets waned on signs the global recovery is stalling.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas will ensure that non-
deliverable forwards in the  currency market  aren’t used for
speculation, Governor Amando Tetangco told reporters yesterday.
Authorities will remain watchful of developments, particularly
“shifts in investor sentiment that affect capital flows,” he
said today after the government reported annual inflation cooled
in July.  “There’s been some concern that the central bank may limit
some transactions, and today it’s coupled with  risk aversion  as
global growth remains uncertain,” said  Jonathan Ravelas , chief
market strategist at Manila-based Banco de Oro Unibank Inc., the
nation’s largest lender.  The peso fell 1 percent this week to 42.583 per dollar as
of the 4 p.m. close of trading in Manila, the biggest loss since
Dec. 17, according to Tullett Prebon Plc. It declined 0.6
percent today and touched 42.705 earlier, the weakest level
since July 20.  Inflation in July slowed to 5.1 percent from 5.2 percent in
June, the  National Statistics Office  in Manila reported, using
2006 as base year.  The yield on the 7 percent bond due March 2017 rose five
basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 5.10 percent,
according to prices from Tradition Financial Services. The rate
was down 10 basis points from a week ago.  Risks to inflation “continue to lean” to the upside and
authorities will keep a “close watch,” ready to adjust policy
and “prudential settings as necessary,” Bangko Sentral said in
a statement today.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 