-- 
Poland’s Left Alliance Leader Seeks Budget Balance in Campaign Reversal

-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z   a n d   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 
2011-08-05T14:10:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/polish-left-alliance-seeks-balanced-budget-in-campaign-reversal.html
Poland’s  Democratic Left Alliance 
seeks to balance the budget and help entrepreneurs, party leader
 Grzegorz Napieralski  said, abandoning calls for higher social
spending before a vote that may return the party to government.  “I haven’t got my head in the clouds,” Napieralski, 37,
said yesterday in an interview in Warsaw. “I know what kind of
world we’re living in and I’m aware that fiscal discipline is
more important than ever before.”  The Alliance ranks third in most opinion polls, making it a
potential partner for Prime Minister Donald Tusk’s Civic
Platform in the next government. The Polish Peasants’ Party, the
junior member of the current coalition, may not be represented
in the next parliament, according to the latest poll from the
Center for Public Research. President Bronislaw Komorowski
yesterday set Oct. 9 as the election date, thereby opening the
election campaign.  Credit-rating companies have warned against slippage on
Tusk’s pledge to cut the  budget deficit . For the Alliance, which
emerged from Poland’s communist-era ruling party and governed
from 1993 to 1997 and from 2001 to 2005, the economy “has to
serve the people,” Napieralski said.  “The  ratings agencies  have made it quite clear that they
want to see more fiscal action from the new government,” Simon Quijano-Evans, chief economist at ING Groep NV in  London , said
by e-mail yesterday. “The current coalition setup is most
likely to keep fiscal credibility in place.”  Debt Rises  Poland’s public debt reached 52.8 percent of gross domestic
product last year, according to Polish accounting standards,
nearing the 55 percent level that would trigger mandatory
austerity measures.  The zloty traded at 4.0399 against the euro at 2:44 p.m.
Warsaw, down from yesterday’s close of 4.0268. The yield on the
five-year Treasury bond maturing in April 2016 rose to 5.239
percent.  Napieralski worked as a laborer at the Szczecin shipyard on
 Poland ’s Baltic coast as a student, becoming a deputy in the
lower chamber of parliament in 2004 and taking over the
chairmanship of the Alliance in 2008.  If it becomes part of the next government, the party would
improve public finances and plans to eliminate the central
government deficit to zero by 2016, he said.  “There is absolutely no risk that our participation in the
government would lead to mindless spending of public funds,”
Napieralski said.  Deficit Outlook  The general government deficit, which includes the local
and central governments along with the social security and
health-care systems, soared to 7.9 percent of GDP last year as
revenue slumped in the aftermath of the global financial crisis
while companies held back on investment plans, and higher
unemployment forced more  government spending .  Finance Minister Jacek Rostowski has said Poland is on
course to narrow the deficit to 2.9 percent next year, within
the European Union’s 3 percent limit. This year’s central
government shortfall may be as much as 10 billion zloty ($3.5
billion) less than the 40.2 billion-zloty cap, Rostowski said
last month. Standard & Poor’s this week affirmed its A- rating
on Poland’s debt.  The government deficit forecast is based on economic-growth
estimates that may be too high, according to the  International
Monetary Fund  and European Commission. Poland, the only country
in the 27-member EU to avoid recession in 2009, estimates
economic growth will accelerate to 4 percent this year from 3.8
percent in 2010.  Opinion Polls  While  Civic Platform  remains Poland’s most popular party,
about a third of its voters would consider defecting to the
Alliance, a July poll by the Center for Public Research.  Support for the Platform rose to 39 percent on Aug. 3, 1
percentage point higher than July 29, a poll of 1,005 Poles by
Warsaw-based SMG/KRC researcher for television station TVN24
found. Tusk’s party  won  41.5 percent of the vote in the 2007
general election.  There are “signs of policy complacency” in Poland and the
economy “wouldn’t be immune to an acute global disruption,”
 Michael Gomez , an emerging-markets fund manager at Pacific
Investment Management Co., said in an interview last month.  Credit-Default Swaps  Poland’s five-year credit-default swaps, used to protect
investors from non-payment or speculate on a borrower’s credit
worthiness, traded at 189.075 basis points yesterday, the
highest since June 2009. The spreads rose 38 basis points in the
past month, the second-steepest increase among 20 emerging-
market borrowers tracked by Bloomberg, behind  Hungary ’s.  “We can assume that the 4 percent growth figure written
into the budget isn’t realistic,” Napieralski said. “And
economic growth in Poland is much slower than it has the
potential to be.”  The next Polish government should stimulate growth and
government revenue by using EU funding more effectively,
limiting illegal employment, cutting red tape for both domestic
and foreign businesses, and helping entrepreneurs to establish
companies, Napieralski said.  Poland was 70th in the  World Bank ’s 2011 “Doing Business”
report that ranks countries based on the ease with which
companies can be set up, operated, and closed down. That placed
Poland behind Belarus and  Tunisia .  The Alliance today signed a “pact for the Polish economy”
with the Business Centre Club, one of Poland’s biggest corporate
groups with some 2,500 members, including domestic and foreign
investors.  “We were pleasantly surprised to receive a proposal of
cooperation from the Alliance,” Marek Goliszewski, president of
the Business Centre Club, told reporters in Warsaw today. The
club’s economic concerns made it possible to reach an agreement
with a party with different political beliefs, he added.  “We’re facing very important challenges,” Goliszewski
said. “This isn’t a joke -- we could end up like  Portugal .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katya Andrusz in Warsaw at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net 
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  