-- 
Hudson Tolls Would Rise $4 Under New York-New Jersey Port Authority’s Plan

-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-08-05T22:59:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/port-authority-proposes-higher-tolls-into-new-york-to-raise-capital-funds.html
The Port Authority of  New York  and
 New Jersey  proposed toll increases for Hudson River bridges and
tunnels that would boost the cost to enter  Manhattan  to as much
as $17.  Drivers with the electronic E-Z Pass device would see peak-
hour charges increase to $12 from $8 in September for the George
Washington Bridge and the Holland and Lincoln tunnels linking
New Jersey and Manhattan, and on three bridges from the state to
 Staten Island .  Additional $2 increases during peak and off-peak hours
would be implemented in 2014, the agency said today in a
statement. The toll is only collected for travel into New York.
Those paying cash would see tolls raised to $15 from $8 next
month and to $17 in 2014.  “The  Port Authority  does not receive  tax revenue , making
its toll and fare structure the primary way to fund the region’s
critical interstate transportation network,” the agency’s news
release said.  The port authority board scheduled a vote on the higher
tolls and fares for Aug. 19  The increase would boost Port Authority revenue by about
$240 million from September through the end of the year, and
$720 million a year in 2012, said Ron Marsico, an agency
spokesman. The 2014 increment would add another $290 million a
year, raising the total annual gain from the increase to more
than $1 billion, he said.  Capital Plan  The authority said the higher tolls are necessary to help
fund a $33 billion  10-year capital plan  and pay $1.9 billion for
World Trade Center redevelopment. It would also finance $806
million in security expenses, which is triple the cost since
Sept. 11, 2001. About $3.9 billion in capital projects such as
replacing cables on the George Washington Bridge are contingent
on the increase, according to the announcement.  “Failure to act risks 240 critical infrastructure projects
and thousands of jobs, and will prevent the overhaul of the
agency’s aging facilities,” the Port Authority said.  Economic benefits from completing the capital plan include
creation of 167,000 jobs, $38.4 billion in sales, and $9.7
billion in wages within the 17-county New York-New Jersey Port
District, the agency said in its news release.  The toll boost “focuses the greatest increase on cash
users and trucks that cause the most traffic congestion and
wear-and-tear,” Steve Coleman, an agency spokesman, said in the
statement.  PATH Fares  Fares for the PATH commuter rail service under the  Hudson
River  would rise to $2.75 from $1.75 in September for individual
rides. A 30-day unlimited pass would increase to $89 from $54.  Although the agency didn’t mention any risks to its bond
rating in its statement, Governors Andrew Cuomo of New York and
 Chris Christie  of New Jersey, who share oversight of the bi-
state agency, released a joint statement in which they said
agency officials may have such worries.  “While we understand the Port Authority leadership’s
concerns about a potential downgrade to its bond rating if toll
increases are not instituted, our primary concern with this
proposal is its impact on our respective states’ residents and
commercial users of the crossings,” they said. Cuomo is a
Democrat and Christie is a Republican.  U.S. Senator  Frank Lautenberg , a New Jersey Democrat,
called the Port Authority proposals “outrageous,” and “yet
another assault on New Jersey’s commuters.” Increases that
would be of even half the proposed rates “would be
unacceptable,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum  mtannen@bloomberg.net  or  