-- 
Premier League, Media Can’t Agree on Reporting Guidelines on Soccer Games

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-08-05T16:15:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/premier-league-media-can-t-agree-on-reporting-guidelines-on-soccer-games.html
Talks between the English Premier
League and media groups over guidelines for reporting have
broken off, eight days before the start of the soccer season.  The Premier League and the Football League, which
represents the lower divisions, have been negotiating with the
News Media Coalition, an international body which focuses on the
ability of news organizations to cover major events, over the
terms for coverage of matches. Members of the NMC include the
 Associated Press  and the Press Association, according to the
group’s website. The Newspaper Publishers Association is also
involved in the talks.  Among others things, the coalition said, the rules include
league controls on how and when news can be published online,
and how news can be distributed to fans in Britain and overseas.
They also require users of content to obtain and pay for
permission from the leagues for their coverage.  The leagues said in a statement they proposed extending the
existing agreement, which has been in place for six years, on an
interim basis, with a seven-day termination clause, until a new
agreement is negotiated.  “Unfortunately, as yet, the NPA and international agencies
have not taken up that offer which creates the possibility of
disrupted match-coverage in newspapers,” the leagues said in
their statement. “This serves nobody’s interests, particularly
not football fans looking forward to the start of the season. We
remain open to further negotiations and are hopeful of reaching
a satisfactory conclusion as soon as possible.”  Andy Moger, executive director of the NMC, didn’t
immediately return a voice-mail message left at his office.  The Football League season begins tonight with a match in
the second-tier Championship. The Premier League season opens
Aug. 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 