-- 
Prudential’s First-Half Operating Profit Jumps 25% on Asia Unit Growth

-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y   a n d   B e i   H u
-- 
2011-08-05T15:40:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/prudential-first-half-operating-profit-rises-25-beats-analysts-estimates.html
Prudential Plc (PRU) , the U.K.’s biggest
insurer by market value, said first-half profit rose 25 percent
on increased revenue at its Asian and U.S. units.  Operating profit rose to 1.06 billion pounds ($1.7 billion)
from 845 million pounds a year earlier, the London-based company
said today in a statement. That beat the 935 million-pound
median estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “We have continued to concentrate on the fast growing and
highly profitable markets of  Southeast Asia ,” Chief Executive
Officer  Tidjane Thiam , 49, said in the statement. “We expect to
see continued, profitable and cash generative growth in the
second half.”  Prudential, which gets almost half its revenue from Asia,
is aiming to double profit from the region within the next two
years as demand for insurance grows among the expanding middle
classes in economies such as  Indonesia  and  Thailand . The insurer
raised its dividend 20 percent in the second half of 2010, nine
months after its $35.5 billion bid for Asian rival  AIA Group
Ltd. (1299)  collapsed.  Annual premium equivalent sales, a measure of revenue, rose
10 percent to 1.8 billion pounds. Prudential said today it will
also raise its first-half dividend 20 percent to 7.95 pence a
share, matching an estimate of five analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  The shares declined 2.2 percent to 616 pence in London
trading, valuing the insurer at 15.7 billion pounds.  Indonesia, U.S.  Operating profit based on long-term investment returns from
Prudential’s U.S. unit, which sells variable annuities to
retiring baby boomers, rose 13 percent to 368 million pounds.
The insurer gained market share during the credit crisis of 2008
when rivals such as  Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. (HIG) 
limited sales of variable annuities. The products make regular
payments to retirees and offer protection against stock market
declines.  Prudential’s long-term operating profit from Asia surged 24
percent to 326 million pounds, boosted by markets such as
Indonesia and  Malaysia , the insurer said. That helped offset
declining sales in  India  after the country’s regulator required
all insurance products to be re-registered at the end of last
year.  Indonesia  For the first time, Indonesia became Prudential’s largest
business in Asia in terms of sales, it said in the statement.
Profit from the country grew faster than anywhere else in Asia,
rising 36 percent to 95 million pounds in the period.  The business is “the strongest life insurance franchise in
what we consider the world’s most attractive life insurance
market,” Toby Langley, a London-based analyst at  Barclays
Capital  wrote in a note July 29.  Prudential’s net income climbed 95 percent to 861 million
pounds in the first half of the year. Net income in the year-
earlier period benefited from a one-time tax gain of 158 million
pounds following a settlement with the U.K. authorities.  “There are clear macroeconomic concerns today in the
Western world,” Thiam said in the statement, citing sovereign
debt issues and fiscal difficulties in the U.S. and euro area.
“While these issues may have some temporary adverse effects
across the globe, we continue to believe that our substantial
presence in the growing and developing markets across  Asia  put
us in a position to deliver relative outperformance in the
medium term.”  Market Rout  Prudential’s results came as Asian stocks fell the most
since March, extending a global rout, amid concerns the U.S.
economic recovery is faltering and  Europe ’s debt woes persist.  “The fiscal position in the West is bad and that message
isn’t out there yet and markets are starting to realize that,”
Thiam said today in an interview on Bloomberg TV’s On The Move
program. “They don’t see a path to fiscal balance with
growth.”  Prudential’s dividend increase and a 13 percent rise in the
share price since June last year has helped appease investors
disgruntled at the collapse of the AIA deal, which cost the
company 377 million pounds in fees. Even so, 22 percent of
shareholders failed to vote in favor of re-electing Chairman
Harvey McGrath at the insurer’s annual general meeting in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  