-- 
Rand Rallies, Paring Worst Weekly Decline in Four, After U.S. Jobs Data

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-08-05T14:35:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/rand-heads-for-worst-week-to-dollar-since-may-amid-global-growth-concerns.html
The rand advanced versus the dollar,
paring its worst weekly decline in four, after better-than-
expected U.S. employment data eased concern the world’s biggest
economy is sliding into a recession.  The rand strengthened as much as 0.9 percent to 6.8585 per
dollar, and traded 0.8 percent up at 6.8630 as of 3:29 p.m. in
Johannesburg, trimming its retreat this week to 2.5 percent, the
biggest since the week ended July 15. The rand gained 0.5
percent to 9.7549 per euro.  The dollar index, which measures the currency against six
major U.S. trading partners, fell 0.3 percent after reports
showed U.S. payrolls rose and the  unemployment rate  declined to
9.1 percent in July, spurring traders to close bearish bets on
 South Africa ’s currency.  “We’ve seen some short-covering in the rand in the wake of
the better employment report,”  Michael Keenan , an analyst at
Standard Bank Group Ltd., said by phone from Johannesburg.
“Risky assets have sold off so much already this week that
there is probably some profit-taking” as investors close out
short rand positions, he said.  In a short sale, speculators borrow and sell an asset,
betting it will decline in value so they can buy it back at a
lower price and pocket the difference.  The rand earlier declined to its lowest level in more than
two weeks after U.S. reports on jobless claims, manufacturing
and spending pointed to an economic slowdown, and the  European
Central Bank  said it had bought bonds of debt-ridden countries
to prevent  Europe ’s credit crisis from worsening. Those risks
remain, threatening further gains, Keenan said.  Currency Swings  The rand’s three-month implied volatility versus the dollar
soared as much as 1.4 percentage points today to 16.9 percent,
the highest in more than a year, indicating that investors
expect swings in the currency to widen in coming weeks.  Options traders are more bearish on the rand than at any
other time this year, with the extra price of three-month
contracts to sell the rand rather than buy it rising as much as
80 basis points, or 0.8 percentage point, to 4.30 percentage
points today, according to so-called risk-reversal rates
compiled by Bloomberg.  “I still think one number doesn’t change the gloomy
environment,” Keenan said. “U.S unemployment is still more
than 9 percent. The underlying concerns about the global economy
are still there.”  Bonds Decline  Bonds declined for the first day in six. The 6.75 percent
securities due 2021 dropped 61 cents to 91.65 rand, driving the
yield up 10 basis points to 8.01 percent.  Today’s retreat pared the return on 10-year bonds this week
to 1.85 percent, the best weekly performance in almost a year,
on speculation slowing economic growth will help tame inflation
in  Africa ’s largest economy.  Foreign investors purchased a net 1.78 billion rand ($256.5
million) of South African bonds yesterday, according to the JSE
Ltd., which runs the nation’s stock and bond exchanges. Foreign
investors have bought 47.3 billion rand of South African debt
this year, attracted by 10-year yields as much as 5.51
percentage points more than U.S. Treasuries.  “Foreign appetite for yield in the uncertain global market
and coupled with the carnage on the JSE probably implies
potential further gains on bond yields,” Rand Merchant Bank
analysts led by Theuns de Wet wrote in a research note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  