-- 
RBA Lowers Forecast for Australia Growth This Year, Raises Inflation View

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-08-05T03:31:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/rba-lowers-forecast-for-australia-growth-this-year-raises-inflation-view.html
The  Reserve Bank  of Australia slashed
its 2011 growth forecast and raised the outlook for inflation,
signaling it may extend an interest-rate pause into a second
year on concern the global economy may stall.  In Australia, “conditions are expected to remain very
strong in the mining industry, as well as those parts of the
economy benefiting from high rates of resource-sector
investment,” the central bank said today in its quarterly
monetary policy statement. “In other sectors, the high  exchange
rate  and subdued levels of retail spending mean that the trading
environment is likely to remain difficult.”  The report underscores the dilemma RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  faces: faster inflation and export-led growth that’s
threatened by global slowdown. The Australian dollar is on pace
for its biggest weekly decline since May 2010 and more than $4.4
trillion has been erased from equity market values worldwide on
signs the U.S. could fall back into a recession.  The RBA forecast growth in 2011 will average 2 percent,
down from its May 6 estimate of 3.25 percent, while in 2012,
gross domestic product will accelerate 4.5 percent, stronger
than the prior estimate for a 4.25 percent expansion. It said
today’s estimates assumed the cash rate to be unchanged over the
forecast period, compared with “the technical assumption in May
of a 50 basis points rise by mid-2013.”  ‘More Pressing’  “The RBA is still concerned about medium-term inflation,
but the concerns around the globe and the potential
ramifications are greater and they’re more pressing,” said Su-
Lin Ong, head of Australian economic and fixed-income strategy
at  RBC Capital Markets  in Sydney. “There’s a very good chance
the RBA will stay on the sidelines this year.”  Consumer prices will rise 3.5 percent in the year through
to the final quarter of 2011, from a previous prediction of 3.25
percent, and  core inflation  will quicken to 3.25 percent from 3
percent, it said. The RBA said underlying inflation will remain
“relatively high” in 2012 and 2013.  The central bank said that global risks to its central
economic scenario are “weighted to the downside.”  “There remains a possibility that the sovereign debt
problems in Europe and the  United States  play out in a
disorderly and disruptive manner, and that this leads to a
marked rise in global risk aversion and uncertainty,” the RBA
said today. “While the exposures in the financial system are
better understood than they were in 2008, the scope for easing
monetary and fiscal policies in most major economies is very
limited.”  Rate Outlook  Interbank cash-rate futures show traders are betting there
is a 100 percent chance Stevens will cut rates by 75 basis
points by November. The Australian dollar reached $1.1081 on
July 27, the highest level since it was freely floated in 1983.  “What the market has clearly picked up is that the central
bank is uncomfortable with the growth outlook and doesn’t have
the courage to tighten into weak growth to control inflation,”
said  Matthew Johnson , an interest-rate strategist at UBS AG in
Sydney.  The local currency traded at $1.0470 as of 1:17 p.m. in
Sydney from $1.0464 before the RBA statement. Two-year
government bond yields declined to 3.84 percent from 3.89
percent. The S&P/ASX 200 Index slumped 3.9 percent to 4,109,
extending a global stock market rout on concern the  U.S. economy 
is faltering and the European debt crisis worsening.  Inflation Volatility  “In setting monetary policy over the months ahead, the
board will continue to look through the volatility in inflation
resulting from the natural disasters at the start of the year,
as well as any once-off effects from the introduction of a price
on carbon,” the central bank said today. “In what is a
challenging environment, the board is committed to ensuring that
inflation remains consistent with” its 2 percent to 3 percent
target, it said.  Stevens on Aug. 2 held the overnight cash rate target at
4.75 percent for an eighth straight meeting, saying “the board
remains concerned about the medium-term outlook for inflation.”  His decision not to raise the developed world’s highest
rates reflected concern about slowdowns in the U.S. and  China ,
and  Europe ’s debt crisis. He cited “the acute sense of
uncertainty” in financial markets as a key factor for inaction,
a line that was repeated in today’s report.  Core Prices  Data released July 27 showed the central bank’s two
preferred measures of annual inflation accelerated to 2.7
percent in the second quarter, compared with a gain of about 2.3
percent in the first quarter. In today’s statement, the RBA also
predicted the carbon price to add 0.7 percent “to the general
price level.”  Clouding the outlook is concern that the U.S. economy has
yet to regain the ground it lost during the recession. GDP
expanded at a 1.3 percent annual rate in the second quarter,
after a 0.4 percent pace in the prior period, the worst six
months since the recovery began in June 2009, Commerce
Department figures showed July 29.  In Europe, Moody’s Investors Service put  Spain ’s Aa2 rating
on review for a possible cut on July 29, citing funding
pressures. That followed a similar step for  Italy  on June 17.
Ten-year bond yields for both nations reached euro-era records
this week as the region’s officials failed to convince investors
they would halt the spread of the debt crisis after arranging a
so-called selective default for  Greece .  Unemployment View  The central bank predicts  Australia ’s unemployment rate
will remain about 5 percent before declining a little before the
end of the forecast period. The nation’s statistics bureau plans
to release a report on July employment on Aug. 11.  Job growth has been fueled by a mining investment boom
driven by demand for  iron ore , liquefied natural gas and coal
from China and  India  that has boosted commodity prices.  “Mining investment, as a share of GDP, is already at
historically high levels and is expected to increase further as
large expansions take place in the LNG, iron ore and coal
sectors,” the central bank said today.  Private reports this week showed manufacturing slumped to a
two-year low last month and sales of new homes fell the most in
five years. Government reports showed residential-building
permits in June dropped more than economists forecast and  house
prices  fell from April through June for the third quarter in the
past year.  Australia faces a 30 percent chance of a recession in 2012
if employment growth stalls amid a widening of the gap between
the  mining industry  and the rest of the economy, Morgan Stanley
analysts wrote in a research note this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  