-- 
RBS’s Ulster Bank Second Quarter Impairment Charge Drops

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-08-05T07:18:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/rbs-s-ulster-bank-second-quarter-impairment-charge-drops-1-.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  said
its Irish unit’s total impairment charge fell by 49 million
pounds ($79.7 million) to 1.25 billion pounds in the second
quarter from the previous three months, as defaulting loans
decreased.  Dublin-based Ulster Bank Ltd.’s core business’s impairment
losses fell to 269 million pounds in the second quarter from 461
million pounds, while rising to 977 million pounds from 833
million pounds in the non-core unit, Edinburgh-based RBS said in
a  statement  today. The core unit’s operating loss narrowed to
189 million pounds from 377 million pounds in the first quarter
and widened from 177 million pounds for the year-earlier period,
it said.  The overall improvement “reflected a decrease in
defaulting loans and a stabilization of mortgage loan loss
metrics, offset by deteriorating collateral values,” RBS said.  “However, credit conditions in Ireland will remain
challenging with continued downward pressure on asset values
coupled with rising interest rates maintaining pressure on
borrowers,” the bank said.  Rival Lloyds Banking Group Plc said yesterday that the
quality of its Irish loans may worsen further, after it booked a
loan loss charge of 1.78 billion pounds in Ireland in the first
half. Banks operating in Ireland continue to grapple with bad-
loan losses following the collapse of a real-estate bubble in
2007 and amid rising unemployment.  ‘Key Risks’  “Macroeconomic conditions continue to be the key driver of
 Ulster Bank ’s results,” RBS said. “However, further progress
is being made on economic, political and regulatory reform in
the  Republic of Ireland  and recent trends suggest a more
positive medium-term outlook, although key risks remain.”  RBS appointed New Zealander Jim Brown, formerly head of the
group’s Asian retail and commercial markets business, as chief
executive officer of Ulster Bank in March, replacing Cormac McCarthy, who has been in the role for seven years.  Cases of home loans at least 90 days in arrears rose to 7.4
percent of Ulster Bank’s total mortgage portfolio, by volume, at
the end of June, up from 6.6 percent on March 31, RBS said.
“Ulster Bank Group has a number of initiatives in place aimed
at increasing the level of support to customers experiencing
temporary financial difficulties,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan at   jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  