-- 
RBS to Cut 2,000 Jobs as Loss Widens on Greek Debt, Redress

-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 
2011-08-05T15:38:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/rbs-posts-wider-than-expected-loss-on-greek-writedowns-insurance-payments.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,
Britain’s biggest government-controlled bank, will cut about
2,000 jobs as writedowns on Greek debt and costs for
compensating insurance clients pushed it into a first-half loss.  RBS became the third British bank to announce job losses
this week. It will eliminate the posts in its securities unit
over the next 12 to 18 months as it completes its integration of
ABN Amro Holding NV, Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester ,
said on a conference call today. RBS had a wider-than-estimated
first-half net loss of 1.4 billion pounds ($2.3 billion).  The purchase of ABN forced it to seek the biggest bank
bailout in the world. The bank today set aside 850 million
pounds to compensate clients who were improperly sold personal-
loan insurance and wrote down Greek debt by 733 million pounds.
The Edinburgh-based lender follows  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  in eliminating jobs as the sovereign debt crisis
crimps trading revenue.  “If there was a more normal environment we would have
looked at today’s numbers and thought they were a bit
disappointing, but we wouldn’t have been too worried,” said Tom Rayner, an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas in London who rates RBS
“outperform.” “These are not normal markets though. This is
not about the results.”  RBS fell 6.9 percent to 28.18 pence in London trading, its
lowest since April 2009. The government paid about 50.2 pence a
share for its 82 percent stake.  Greek Exposure  RBS has cut 27,500 jobs since Hester took over from  Fred Goodwin  in 2008. HSBC pledged this week to eliminate 30,000 jobs
by 2013 and Barclays said it will cut about 3,000. In all,
European banks have slashed 230,000 jobs since the start of the
financial crisis in 2007, according to Bloomberg Industries.  Revenue at RBS’s securities unit dropped 35 percent to 1.55
billion pounds in the second quarter compared with the first
three months of the year. Revenue from the fixed-income,
currencies and commodities unit tumbled 44 percent to 987
million pounds in the second quarter.  “In fixed-income, if you have a crisis around sovereign
debt, which clearly spills across all fixed income markets,
particularly the eurozone, which is one home markets, you’ll see
subdued revenues,” Hester said. “These are markets to be
careful not to be a hero -- even if that means a slow result.”  Value-at-Risk  RBS’s core Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of financial
strength, climbed to 11.1 percent from 10.7 percent at the end
of 2010. The bank’s value-at-risk, or VaR, a measure of the sum
that could be lost on a given day, declined 23 percent in the
second quarter, analysts led by John-Paul Crutchley at UBS AG in
 London  said in a note to clients today.  “A reduced level of capital employed points to a more
subdued performance in the remainder of the year and into
2012,” the analysts said.  UBS AG and Credit Suisse Group AG last week said that
second-quarter earnings at their securities units dropped by 71
percent.  Barclays Capital  this week posted a 27 percent decline
in pretax profit while HSBC’s investment banking profit dropped
12 percent.  RBS had about 1.45 billion pounds of Greek  government
bonds , the lender said today. It wrote down the bonds after
signing the  Institute of International Finance ’s rescue plan
last month.  France ’s BNP Paribas SA,  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  and
 Germany ’s Deutsche Bank AG have also written down their holdings
of the country’s debt.  Greek Exposure  “ Greece  was the only significant sovereign exposure that
we had inherited from  ABN Amro  among the countries first in the
firing line,” said Hester, 50. “In Ireland and  Portugal , the
other two, although we have commercial positions inside those
countries, our sovereign debt position is negligible.”  RBS’s first-half net loss compared with a profit of 9
million pounds in the year-earlier-period and analyst estimates
of a 571 million-pound loss, according to the median estimate of
five surveyed by Bloomberg. The loss widened to 897 million
pounds in the second quarter from a 528 million-pound loss in
the first three months of the year.  The bank follows Lloyds in posting a loss for the first
half. Barclays, Standard Chartered Plc and HSBC all posted a net
profit for the first six months. HSBC reported a 36 percent
increase in first-half profit on Aug. 1. Barclays said the
following day profit fell 37 percent to 1.5 billion pounds as
investment banking revenue declined.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  