-- 
Treasury Yields Rise From Lows as U.S. Jobs Reports Eases Economic Concern

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-08-05T21:25:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/treasuries-drop-after-report-shows-u-s-payrolls-stronger-than-forecast.html
Treasuries tumbled, pushing up yields
up from the lowest this year, after data showed the U.S. jobs
market gained traction in July, easing concern the economic
recovery is stalling.  U.S. two-year note yields increased from a record low
yesterday as the Labor Department said the U.S. added 117,000
jobs last month as traders prepared to bid next week on $72
billion in notes and bonds. Yields on 10-year notes rose to
within 2.28 percentage points of two-year securities, the first
increase since July 25. Stocks fluctuated after the worst slump
since 2009 yesterday amid concern America may lose its top
 credit rating .  “A better print is a relief,” said Sergey Bondarchuk, an
interest-rate strategist in New York at BNP Paribas SA, one of
the 20 primary dealers that trade directly with the  Federal
Reserve . “It should provide some confidence or at least calm
some fears, but it’s still not a game changer essentially, so
that’s why the sell-off is tapering off.”  Yields on 10-year notes rose 16 basis points, or 0.16
percentage point, to 2.55 percent at 5:01 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 3.125 percent
securities maturing in May 2021 dropped 1 12/32, or $13.75 per
$1,000 face amount, to 104 7/8. The yield dropped 24 basis
points on the week.  Yield Quotes  Thirty-year-bond yields rose 18 basis points to 3.85
percent and two-year note yields added three basis points to
0.29 percent, after hitting a record low of 0.2527 percent
yesterday.  Treasuries returned 5.9 percent this year, while global
governments returned 3 percent, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s data.  “We’re very rich, but for the next couple of days it’s
hard to sell Treasuries because the market has so much
momentum,” said  Anthony Cronin , a trader at Societe Generale SA
in  New York , a primary dealer.  The term premium for Treasuries, a financial model created
by Fed economists to measure the extra yield demanded for moving
out the yield curve as a proxy for where the yield on the 10-
year note should be, was at negative 0.2 percent today, at
almost negative 0.28 percent it reached yesterday. The measure
suggests Treasuries are the most expensive since Nov. 10, 2010,
the day the Fed announced the amount of Treasuries it would buy
in the next month as part of its $600 billion quantitative
easing program.  Volatile Trends  Volatility in the Treasury market has picked up. Merrill
Lynch & Co.’s MOVE index, which measure price swings in
Treasuries based on prices of over-the-counter options maturing
in two- to 30 years, rose to 91 on Aug. 4, the highest since
March.  The U.S. will sell $32 billion of three-year notes, $24
billion of 10-year debt and $16 billion of 30-year bonds on
three consecutive days beginning Aug. 9. The amounts are the
same as the grouping of auctions of these maturities sold in
May.  July payrolls rose after a 46,000 increase in June that was
larger than earlier estimated, the Labor Department said today
in  Washington . The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey
called for a gain of 85,000. The jobless rate dropped to 9.1
percent as discouraged workers left the  labor force . Average
hourly earnings climbed 0.4 percent.  Jobs Numbers  “The numbers were better than anticipated which was
positive for risk and slightly negative for Treasuries,” said
Larry Milstein, managing director in New York of government and
agency debt trading at R.W. Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income
broker and dealer for institutional investors. “This number
provides a glimmer of hope that we may start to see a turn in
economic performance.”  Fed policy makers meet Aug. 9 amid speculation they may
consider additional steps to bolster the  U.S. economy .  “The Fed will hold off and watch the data,” said  Dean Maki , chief U.S. economist at Barclays Capital Inc. in New York
in an interview on Bloomberg Television. “The job market and
the consumers are the key. To say we are entering a recession is
a stretch.”  The FOMC voted on June 22 to conclude its $600 billion
bond-buying program at the end of that month, and to maintain
its balance sheet near record levels by reinvesting proceeds
from its securities holdings. The panel also affirmed its pledge
to keep its benchmark interest rate near zero for an “extended
period.”  Record Fall  Treasury two-year note yields fell to a record low
yesterday amid growing concern that a weakening U.S. economy and
debt problems in  Europe  will prompt the Fed to take additional
steps to bolster growth.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was little changed after
dropping 4.8 percent yesterday.  S&P spokesman John Piecuch said in an e-mail that the
ratings company would not comment on speculation the U.S. rating
will be cut. Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings this
week affirmed their AAA ratings on  U.S. government debt .  “The rates market is prepared for a downgrade, accepting
that a downgrade will eventually come,” said  Carl Lantz , head
of interest-rate strategy in New York at Credit Suisse AG, a
primary dealer. “If not now than after the committee reports in
November as S&P was clear it was looking for $4 trillion in cuts
and that’s not what we are getting. Either way, it won’t be a
huge shock to the market as there isn’t really any concern of
forced selling and S&P isn’t exactly ahead of the curve.’  Spanish and Italian bonds rallied on speculation that
policy makers may take more action to arrest the crisis. Spanish
10-year yields dropped 22 basis points to 6.06 percent, while
similar maturity Italian debt declined 4 basis points to 6.16
percent.  The European Central Bank yesterday signaled it resumed
bond purchases as it offered banks more cash to stop the debt
crisis from engulfing Italy and  Spain  amid speculation the U.S.
Fed may consider a third round of debt buying, known as
quantitative easing.  The ECB action follows the unexpected  interest rate  cut by
 Switzerland ’s central bank and  Japan ’s foreign exchange market
intervention to address economic distress from a weak dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  