-- 
Russian Inflation Slowed to 9% in July as Food Prices Dropped

-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 
2011-08-05T08:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/russian-inflation-slowed-to-9-in-july-as-food-prices-dropped.html
Russian inflation slowed more than
economists expected in July as prices for fresh fruits and
vegetables declined.  Consumer prices advanced 9 percent from a year earlier last
month, down from 9.4 percent in June, the Federal Statistics
Service in Moscow said today by e-mail. The data matched the
figure released yesterday by the central bank, while 18
economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast 9.2 percent. Prices
were unchanged from a month earlier.  Russia ’s central bank left  interest rates  unchanged
yesterday for a third month because of slowing inflation and
concern that sluggish growth around the world may hurt Russia’s
recovery. Economic growth should accelerate in the second half
while easing price pressure may help the government keep
inflation near the low end of its 6.5 percent to 7.5 percent
forecast, the  Economy Ministry  said last month.  “The rapid fall in vegetable prices has dragged inflation
down in June-July, having resulted in 0.1 percent week-on-week
deflation in the last week of July,” Aleksandra Evtifyeva, an
economist at VTB Capital in Moscow, said yesterday in an e-
mailed research note.  Fruit and vegetable prices fell 9.2 percent in July from a
month earlier, the statistics service said. Fresh produce
accounts for 3.6 percent of the consumer basket, according to
VTB Capital.  Food-price inflation may slow in the second half thanks to
a favorable harvest and stabilizing food prices globally,
Evtifyeva said. The central bank will probably continue to focus
on the headline inflation number when considering monetary
policy decisions, she said.  Core inflation , which excludes some volatile items, was 0.4
percent in July, bringing price increases since the start of the
year to 4.1 percent, the service said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net . 