-- 
S&P Reconsiders U.S. Rating Downgrade, Unidentified Official Tells CNN

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-08-05T23:55:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/s-p-reconsiders-u-s-rating-downgrade-unidentified-official-tells-cnn.html
U.S. officials challenged Standard &
Poor’s analysis after the rating firm told the government it
planned to downgrade the nation for the first time in history,
according to a CNN  report .  The firm, which has given the U.S. its top AAA ranking
since 1941, said on July 14 that there was a 50 percent chance
it would reduce the rating in the absence of a “credible” plan
to lower deficits. Officials at New York-based S&P didn’t
respond to e-mails and calls for comment. The Wall Street 
Journal reported that S&P miscalculated future deficit 
projections by almost $2 trillion, citing people familiar with
the matter it didn't identify.   While demand for  U.S. government debt  has surged in recent
weeks, a downgrade may hurt the  U.S. economy  over time by
increasing the cost of mortgages, auto loans and other types of
lending tied to the  interest rates  paid on Treasuries. JPMorgan
Chase & Co. estimated that a cut would raise the nation’s
borrowing costs by $100 billion a year.  Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings affirmed their
AAA ratings after a compromise was passed on Aug. 2 to raise the
U.S. debt limit and to form a committee to cut spending by $2.4
trillion. S&P indicated last month that anything less than $4
trillion in cuts would jeopardize its AAA rating.  “A grand bargain of that nature would signal the
seriousness of policy makers to address the fiscal situation in
the U.S.,”  John Chambers , chairman of S&P’s sovereign rating
committee, said in a video interview distributed by the ratings
firm on July 28.  S&P President Deven Sharma said at a July 27 congressional
hearing that the ratings firm shares draft press releases with
the entity it is rating ahead of any public announcement “to
give the issuer a chance if there are any factual errors or
anything else in the press release.”  CNBC and ABC reported earlier that U.S. officials were
bracing for a downgrade.                To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  