-- 
Gupta-SEC Agreement, Safer Credit Markets, U.K.-Iran Trade: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n   a n d   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-08-05T11:49:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/safer-credit-markets-iran-trade-swaps-dark-markets-compliance.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission agreed to drop an administrative action against
former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director  Rajat Gupta , who has
pledged to dismiss a lawsuit claiming the regulatory proceeding
violated his constitutional rights.  “Mr. Gupta is very pleased that as a result of his lawsuit
the SEC has dismissed its administrative proceeding and he will
no longer be singled out for disparate treatment,”  Gary
Naftalis , his lawyer, said in a statement. “Mr. Gupta’s lawsuit
against the SEC has achieved all of the relief he sought.”  The SEC started an administrative proceeding in Washington
March 1, claiming Gupta passed inside information to Galleon
Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam about Goldman Sachs and
 Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , where Gupta was also on the board.  According to an agreement filed yesterday in federal court
in Manhattan, the SEC will file any future complaint against
Gupta in that court, where it would be heard by U.S. District
Judge Jed Rakoff.  “The staff is fully committed to the case and will proceed
as appropriate,”  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, said in an e-
mail.  The SEC administrative proceeding is In the Matter of Rajat
K. Gupta, 3-14279, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
(Washington). The court case is Gupta v. SEC, 11-cv-01900, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Credit Markets Safest Since Before the Financial Crisis  Credit markets, which inflicted more than $2 trillion of
losses and writedowns on the world’s biggest financial
institutions from 2007 through 2009, are now seen as the safest
since before the financial crisis.  The amount of money at risk in over-the-counter derivatives
has fallen to the lowest level in three years, according to the
 Bank for International Settlements  in Basel, Switzerland. To
close all trades, U.S. banks would need less than half the
amount required at the worst of the downturn, the  Comptroller of
the Currency  in Washington  said .  A combination of voluntary bank reforms and international
regulation is reining in a market that threatened to topple the
financial system three years ago. Government-prompted use of
clearinghouses, which act as a sort of guarantor to lessen the
effects of a default by counterparties in a trade, has led to
almost $14 billion worth of collateral being pledged to back up
transactions in the credit-default swap market.  During the worst of the meltdown three years ago, banks
stopped making short-term loans when they couldn’t determine how
exposed their trading partners were to subprime mortgages and
the credit-default swaps written against the loans. Financial
companies reported more than $2 trillion in losses, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  For more, click here. Companies Trading With Iran Hidden by
U.K. to Avert U.S. Law  The U.K. government is determined to keep secret British
companies that applied to sell goods with potential military
uses to Iran, saying international banks are under U.S. pressure
to drop them as clients.  The disclosure of the companies may result in them losing
access to bank services, Britain’s  Export Control Organization 
said in reply to a Freedom of Information lawsuit filed by
Bloomberg News.  President Barack Obama signed a law almost a year ago
broadening the scope of sanctions against Iran to stunt its
nuclear development program. Even before then, U.K. banks were
cutting off customers with links to Iran to avoid being targeted
by American authorities or losing permits to do business in the
U.S., said the export agency, which issues licenses to ship so-
called strategic supplies with dual military or civilian uses,
as well as torture equipment and radioactive material to other
countries.  The  British-Iranian Chamber of Commerce , which promotes
exports to Iran on behalf of about 120 companies, says the
banks’ behavior “borders on a witch-hunt” that can cause
financial mayhem for potential exporters to the Middle Eastern
nation.  The dispute stems from a 2009 Bloomberg News request that
the U.K.  Department for Business, Innovation and Skills , or BIS,
which oversees the export agency, release the names of British
businesses that applied to ship controlled goods to Iran in the
first half of that year.  The case, scheduled to be heard by a tribunal in London
yesterday, tests transparency in the licensing process, the
accountability of U.K. companies and the release of information
in the public interest, Stephens said.  A press officer at BIS couldn’t be immediately reached to
comment.  For more, click here.  CFTC Finalizes Swap-Database Rules to Expose ‘Dark Market’  The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading Commission  completed the
first set of Dodd-Frank Act rules governing companies at the
center of the $601 trillion swaps market by adopting regulations
for information databases.  CFTC commissioners voted 4-1 yesterday to adopt a rule
registering the databases, part of a Dodd-Frank requirement that
all transactions be reported to swap data repositories that will
make information on trading volumes and prices available to
financial regulators.  Dodd-Frank, the regulatory overhaul enacted in July 2010,
aimed to reduce risk and boost transparency in the swaps market
after largely unregulated transactions helped fuel the 2008
credit crisis. Private derivatives contracts complicated efforts
to resolve the crisis by making it difficult for regulators to
unravel trading links among financial firms after the September
2008 collapse of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)   The law requires the CFTC and  Securities and Exchange
Commission  to write rules for the new repositories. The rules
will govern trades conducted by financial firms such as Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  as well as energy and
commodity firms including Cargill Inc.  The markets covered by the rule used to be called “dark
markets for swaps trading,” according to a statement prepared
for yesterday’s meeting by CFTC commissioner  Bart Chilton . The
databases are about “letting the sunshine in,” said Chilton,
one of three Democrats on the five-member commission.  The CFTC altered an earlier version of the data rule,
originally proposed in November, to ease information-sharing
with overseas regulators, according to an agency summary of the
final rule.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Ex-UBS Banker Helped Conceal $215 Million From IRS, U.S. Says  Former  UBS AG (UBSN)  banker Gian Gisler was indicted on charges
that he conspired to help at least 38 U.S. clients use Swiss
banks to hide more than $215 million from the  Internal Revenue
Service .  Gisler, 45, aided clients using sham entities to hide
assets in undeclared accounts, including one valued at $43.3
million, another worth $42.7 million and a third with $19.7
million, according to an indictment in federal court in
Manhattan.  “From the mid-1990s through at least 2010, Gisler
allegedly conspired with various U.S. taxpayers and others to
ensure that his clients could hide their Swiss bank accounts and
the income they generated from the IRS,” according to a
statement by U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara.  Gisler worked at UBS from the mid-1990s until 2008, when a
U.S. probe of the bank intensified. UBS, the largest Swiss bank,
was charged in 2009 with helping Americans evade taxes. The bank
avoided prosecution by paying $780 million, admitting it helped
Americans evade taxes and turning over data on 250 secret
accounts. It later handed over data on another 4,450 accounts.  After 2008, Gisler worked at a Swiss asset-management firm,
helping to move accounts of his U.S. clients from UBS to other
Swiss banks, according to the indictment.  In mid-2009, that firm began to stop helping U.S. taxpayers
keep accounts hidden from the IRS, “which again made it, as a
practical matter, impossible for Gisler to conduct his usual
business of assisting U.S. taxpayers in maintaining undeclared
accounts,” according to the indictment.  He then joined a second asset-management firm, transferring
his client accounts to help keep those assets undeclared,
according to the indictment.  In the past three years, more than two dozen UBS clients
have been charged with tax crimes, as well as several bankers
and financial advisers. On Aug. 2, former UBS banker Martin Lack
was charged with conspiring to help wealthy Americans evade
taxes by hiding accounts in a smaller Swiss regional bank.  The case is U.S. v. Gisler, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  Ex-Wall Street Lawyer Pleads Guilty to Federal Tax Charges  John J. O’Brien, a former lawyer at  Sullivan & Cromwell  LLP
specializing in corporate mergers and acquisitions, pleaded
guilty to charges he failed to pay income taxes.  O’Brien, 48, of Caroga Lake in the foothills of New York’s
Adirondack Mountains, was charged in a misdemeanor criminal
information August in federal court in Manhattan. He entered his
plea yesterday before U.S. Magistrate Judge Henry Pitman and was
released on a $100,000 personal recognizance bond with a week to
secure a co-signer.  O’Brien earned about $10.8 million in partnership income
for the tax years 2001 to 2008 and failed to file a federal  tax
return  for each of those years, the government said. He used the
unreported income to pay for personal expenses, including the
purchase of a weekend home, funding of a rare-books business,
Hudson Street Books, and international travel, prosecutors said.  O’Brien was charged with two counts of willful failure to
file U.S. individual income tax returns and two counts of
willful failure to pay tax. He pleaded guilty to all four and
faces as much as one year in prison on each count at sentencing,
which is scheduled for Nov. 16 before Pitman.  O’Brien agreed to pay no less than $2.8 million in
restitution, representing the full amount of taxes and interest
due to the Internal Revenue Service for the tax years 2001 to
2008, prosecutors said in a plea agreement. He has paid about
$800,000 to the IRS, said his attorney, Russell Neufeld, during
yesterday’s hearing.  Neufeld declined to comment after the hearing. Karen Braun,
a spokeswoman for Sullivan & Cromwell, declined to comment on
the charges before yesterday’s plea.  The case is U.S. vs. O’Brien, 11-cr-0652, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Ex-Baseball Pro DeCinces Pays $2.5 Million Over Inside Trade  Doug DeCinces, the former Major League Baseball third
baseman, will pay $2.5 million to resolve U.S. regulators’
claims that he used inside information to profit from an  Abbott
Laboratories (ABT)  buyout in 2009.  DeCinces, who played for the Baltimore Orioles and
California Angels during a 15-year career, bought 83,700 shares
of Advanced Medical Optics Inc. after learning from an employee
that Abbott was interested in buying the firm, the Securities
and Exchange Commission said yesterday. DeCinces and three
people with whom he shared the nonpublic information made more
than $1.7 million selling shares after Abbott’s offer was
announced, the SEC said in a  filing  in U.S. District Court in
Los Angeles.  DeCinces, 60, amassed the stock through brokerage accounts
he controlled, including some in his grandchildren’s names, the
SEC said. He reaped $1.2 million in profit selling his entire
stake after Advanced Medical Optics shares more than doubled to
$21.50 after the announcement on Jan. 12, 2009, the SEC said.  In settling the claims, DeCinces didn’t admit or deny
wrongdoing. A phone call to Gordon Greenberg, his lawyer at
McDermott Will & Emery, wasn’t immediately returned.  DeCinces, who began his career with the Orioles as
successor to Hall of Fame third baseman Brooks Robinson, was
traded to the Angels in 1982 to make way for Hall of Famer Cal
Ripken Jr.  For more, click here.  U.K. Banks Asked by FSA to Publish Holdings of Belgian Debt  Britain’s Financial Services Authority asked lenders to
publish their holdings of Belgian debt amid concern the
sovereign debt crisis is spreading.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Britain’s biggest mortgage
lender, disclosed it had 405 million pounds ($661 million) of
exposure to the country in its first-half results yesterday.
About 87 million pounds was in direct holdings of government
debt.  The cost of insuring against defaults by Spain and Italy
surged to records this week, leading an increase in European
sovereign bond risk, on concern indebted governments will
struggle to fund themselves as the global economy slows.  In all, the lender had 6.4 billion pounds of exposure to
Belgium, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain. Sarah
Bailey, a spokeswoman for the FSA in London, couldn’t
immediately comment.  Credit-Raters Risk Conflict with Congress over U.S. AAA Grade  The debate over raising the U.S. debt limit put Standard &
Poor’s, the world’s biggest provider of credit ratings, and its
competitors in an awkward spot: judging the creditworthiness of
the U.S. government at the same time that Congress considers
rules to limit their power.  Congress and federal regulators are discussing ways to
implement the Dodd-Frank Act, which contains provisions aimed at
reducing the raters’ role in the financial system and creating
more competition in an industry dominated by S&P, Moody’s
Investors Service and Fitch Ratings. In an April report, a
Senate panel blamed raters for fueling the financial crisis,
saying they engaged in a “race to the bottom” to stamp
inflated grades on mortgage-backed securities.  Washington is now watching as the ratings companies mull
whether to lower the nation’s grade, Bloomberg Businessweek
reports in its Aug. 8 edition. S&P is considering stripping the
U.S. of its AAA rating even after Congress agreed to lift the
debt limit. The country’s debt to gross domestic product ratio
is nearing 75 percent, putting it on a worse track than top-
rated France and Germany, the company said in a July 14
statement.  Moody’s, the second-biggest rater, and Fitch, No. 3,
affirmed their AAA ratings after Congress reached the debt deal
while warning that downgrades are still possible if lawmakers
fail to enact further debt reduction measures or the economy
weakens.  For more, click here.  Clearwire Is Latest Stock Halted by Circuit Breakers  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) , the provider of wireless services, had
trading in its shares halted by circuit breakers yesterday,
becoming the second company this month to be halted.  The curbs were created after the 20-minute rout on May 6,
2010, erased $862 billion from the value of U.S. shares before
prices rebounded. The pause lasts five minutes for Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index and  Russell 1000 Index (RIY)  companies as well as 
more than 300  exchange-traded funds when they rise or fall at
least 10 percent within five minutes.  New rules proposed by exchanges on April 5, 2011, would
shift the market to a limit-up/limit-down system that prevents
shares from moving more than a certain amount.  For a table of securities that have been halted by U.S.
circuit breakers since they were implemented in June 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, click here.  South Africa’s Gordhan Defends Swaziland Loan; Unions Cry Foul  South African Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  defended the
government’s decision to lend Swaziland 2.4 billion rand ($351
million) to plug a budget shortfall, following criticism from
labor unions that the money would help prop up Africa’s last
absolute monarchy.  Swaziland, a landlocked country of 1.2 million people
bordering South Africa and Mozambique, lost a third of its
revenue when the global economic crisis slashed income from a
regional customs union. Government spending cuts sparked riots
in April that were broken up by police using force.  It is in South Africa’s best interests to ensure stability
is restored, Gordhan said. The government will guarantee the
loan, which will be paid through the central bank and is
conditional on “governance reforms” in Swaziland, he told
reporters yesterday.  King Mswati III, who has a personal fortune of $200
million, according to Forbes magazine, appoints Swaziland’s
prime minister, while its lawmakers aren’t allowed to belong to
political parties.  The Congress of South African Trade Unions, the country’s
biggest labor grouping and a member of the African National
Congress-led ruling alliance, said it was shocked by the loan
agreement. It called for the funding to be made contingent on
political reforms.  Interviews/Speeches  Barroso Seeks Rescue ‘Reassessment,’ Possible Boost in Size  European Commission  President  Jose Barroso  called for a
reassessment of “all elements” of the euro-area rescue fund,
possibly including an increase in its size.  “I also take the opportunity to urge a rapid reassessment
of all elements related to the EFSF, and concomitantly the ESM,
in order to ensure that they are equipped with the means for
dealing with contagious risk,” Barroso said in a letter to
euro-area leaders released yesterday in Brussels.  The  European Financial Stability Facility  has a target
lending capacity of 440 billion euros ($626 billion). It will be
replaced in 2013 by the European Stability Mechanism, which will
wield 500 billion euros.  Barroso’s call “can well include the size,” commission
spokeswoman Karolina Kottova told reporters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net ;
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 