-- 
Sarkozy, Merkel to Discuss Crisis Today

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-08-05T06:16:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/sarkozy-to-discuss-euro-market-turmoil-with-merkel-and-zapatero-today.html
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  will discuss the euro region’s
debt crisis today after concerns that it will spread to Italy
and  Spain  helped trigger a global market rout.  Sarkozy will also speak with Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero, according to an official at the French
president’s office in Paris. Sarkozy spoke with European Central
Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet yesterday and the previous
day, said the person, who cannot be identified under government
policy. The official wouldn’t give details on the timing of the
calls.  European leaders have failed to stamp out concerns that
Italy and Spain will need bailouts even after agreeing last
month to retool their 440 billion-euro ($620 billion) bailout
fund. More than $4.4 trillion have been wiped out from equity-
market values worldwide since July 26 as speculation mounts the
world economy faces a new recession that would exacerbate
 Europe ’s debt woes.  Italian and Spanish bonds fell yesterday even after Trichet
said the ECB will start buying government debt again amid
renewed tensions in bond markets. The yield on Italian and
Spanish debt rose to 6.20 percent and 6.28 percent,
respectively, and are close to euro-era highs.  The euro was little changed today, trading at $1.4099 as of
7:08 a.m. in  London , after falling 1.6 percent yesterday.  Prodding Leaders  European officials are now trying to prod leaders into
announcing new measures such as increasing the size of the
bailout fund to put a firewall around Italy and Spain, the euro
region’s third and fourth-largest economies. Parliaments may
also be pushed to speed up the ratification of new measures
designed to empower it to buy  government bonds .  European Commission President Jose Barroso yesterday urged
governments to review “all elements” of the European Financial
Stability Facility.  Olli Rehn, the EU’s economic and monetary affairs
commissioner, will hold a news conference in Brussels today at
about 12:20 p.m. regarding “ongoing developments in the
eurozone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  