-- 
Obama Signs FAA Bill to Renew Tax Collection, End Furloughs

-- B y   L i s a   C a r u s o   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-08-05T19:32:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/senate-approves-faa-funding-measure-to-end-impasse-furloughs.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama  signed
legislation extending the Federal Aviation Administration’s
funding authority through mid-September, allowing 74,000 agency
and construction-related workers to return to work.  “I’m thrilled for our dedicated FAA employees who will be
able to go back to work on Monday,” Transportation Secretary
Ray LaHood wrote today on his  Fast Lane  blog. “And I’m thrilled
for the tens of thousands of hardworking workers who can go back
to airport construction sites around the country.”  While the bill, passed by the Senate today, would reinstate
taxes on airline tickets sold on or after July 23, an Internal
Revenue Service spokesman said the agency won’t try to collect
the money retroactively. Most carriers raised fares by the
amount of lapsed taxes and will get to keep the money.  “Administratively, it would be very difficult to collect
those taxes,” Frank Keith, an IRS spokesman, said.  The airlines, including Southwest Airlines Co.,  Delta Air
Lines Inc. (DAL)  and  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC) , must begin collecting the
taxes by 12:01 a.m. Aug. 8, Keith said in a statement.  “The IRS intends to provide guidance to the airlines which
will allow for an orderly restart of the collection of ticket
taxes,” according to the statement.  Through yesterday, the FAA lost an estimated $371.8 million
in taxes, including on airline tickets, jet fuel and cargo,
since its revenue-raising authority expired July 22, when the
U.S. House of Representatives and the Senate failed to agree on
an extension bill.  Because the bill makes the taxes retroactive to July 23, no
taxpayers who flew during the shutdown and purchased their
airline tickets beforehand will be owed refunds, Keith said.
Before Congress broke an impasse over extending the taxes, the
IRS asked airlines to refund the tax payments to fliers.  Back Pay  About 4,000 FAA employees including engineers, computer
specialists, program analysts and administrative staff were
furloughed after the agency’s operating authority lapsed. Air-
traffic controllers remained on the job, and about 40 safety
inspectors worked without pay and covered their travel expenses.  The bill passed today does not address back pay for the
furloughed FAA workers. House Transportation and Infrastructure
Committee Chairman John Mica said in a telephone interview his
panel hopes to introduce a bill as soon as Aug. 9 to provide
back pay.  The 70,000 workers in construction and related jobs were
idled because the FAA could not distribute $2.5 billion in
airport improvement grants.  Rural-Flight ‘Assurances’  Lawmakers agreed yesterday the Senate would accept the
 House-passed bill  to extend the FAA’s authority through Sept.
16, and eliminate $16.6 million in subsidies for flights to 13
rural airports -- a provision in the House bill that Senate
Democrats had refused to approve.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said in an e-mailed
statement that he has “received assurances” from LaHood “that
the rural communities whose economies rely on air service will
be protected.” Among the airports slated to lose federal
support is one in the Democrat’s home state of  Nevada .  The four top tax legislators in Congress yesterday asked
the IRS not to seek back taxes on airline tickets purchased
during the lapse in the agency’s revenue-raising authority.  “We encourage you to utilize all your discretion and
authority to extend relief for passengers and airlines with
respect to ticket taxes that were not paid or collected because
of the lapse and provide the industry a three-day period of time
to restart processes to collect the taxes,” according to the
letter to IRS Commissioner Douglas Shulman.  Sept. 16  It was written by the top two members of the Senate Finance
Committee, DemocratMax Baucus of  Montana  and Republican  Orrin Hatch  of  Utah , as well as the top two members of the House Ways
and Means Committee, Republican  Dave Camp  and Democrat Sander Levin, both of  Michigan .  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  may lead carriers in rolling back a
fare increase that matched suspended FAA taxes and fees when the
charges resume, a JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst said.  Airlines should start rescinding the increase over the next
48 hours,  Jamie Baker , a New York-based analyst, said in a
report.  The FAA has been operating on a series of short-term
extensions since its last multi-year authorization law expired
in September 2007. Today’s measure is the 21st.  When Congress returns for votes on Sept. 7, it will have
until Sept. 16 to either resolve its differences on the long-
term funding bill or pass another limited extension to continue
the FAA operations.  Labor Provision  “I’m going to do everything I can and use every means
possible to bring four and a half years of a totally destructive
process to an end,” Mica said.  The Florida Republican said all of the outstanding issues
between the House’s four-year, $59.7 billion FAA reauthorization
bill and the Senate’s two-year, $35.6 billion version, can be
resolved.  That includes a provision in the House bill to overturn a
ruling by the  National Mediation Board  making it easier for
airline employees to unionize.  Senate Democrats  oppose that
language.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Caruso in Washington at 
 lcaruso7@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  