-- 
Slim Loses $8 Billion in Four Days as Mexican Holdings Fall

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-08-05T20:55:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/slim-loses-8-billion-in-four-days-as-mexican-holdings-suffer.html
Carlos Slim , the world’s richest man,
lost about $6.7 billion this week.  The Mexican billionaire’s stock portfolio, measured in U.S.
dollars, has dropped about 9.5 percent since July 29 and is
valued at about $64.4 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with a 7.2 percent slide in the
 Standard & Poor’s  500 Index.  Slim, 71, has taken a hit as  Mexico ’s benchmark IPC index
dropped 6.4 percent and the peso slid 2.3 percent against the
dollar on concerns that the flagging  U.S. economy  will hurt
demand for assets in its southern neighbor. The removal of three
of Slim’s companies from the IPC index has made matters worse
for the billionaire.  “He’s been particularly hurt by those companies leaving
the IPC,” said Leon Cabrera, a trader at Mexico City-based
Vanguardia Casa de Bolsa. “It reflects the nervousness out
there. It’s part of being in the market.”  America Movil  SAB, the biggest wireless carrier in the
Americas and Slim’s largest asset, has declined a relatively
benign 6 percent this week. Its Telefonos de Mexico SAB unit has
been Slim’s only gainer in Mexico, rising 11 percent on the
parent company’s offer to buy out minority shareholders.  The Standard & Poor’s index extended its decline today,
falling 0.1 percent at close. The IPC rose 1.1 percent, and
America Movil gained 1.1 percent.  Buying Opportunity  The drop in America Movil, which has fallen 20 percent this
year as regulators seek to put a dent in its 70 percent share of
Mexico’s mobile-phone market, is an opportunity for investors to
buy stock in a solid company, Cabrera said yesterday in a
telephone interview.  Even measured in Mexican pesos, Slim’s holdings have
dropped about 7.3 percent this week, a bigger decline than the
broader Mexican market. Bolsa Mexicana de Valores SAB, the
Mexican stock exchange operator, said Aug. 2 that it would drop
Slim’s Grupo Financiero Inbursa SAB, Inmuebles Carso SAB and
Grupo Carso SAB from the IPC index as part of an annual
rebalancing.  Inbursa, Slim’s financial-services firm, slid 8.2 percent
this week, while Inmuebles Carso, a real estate firm, declined
11 percent, and Grupo Carso, a holding company with retail and
construction units, fell 14 percent.  Slim was named the world’s richest man for a second year in
a row by Forbes magazine in March.  Bill Gates  and  Warren Buffett , second and third on the magazine’s list, have had
better weeks, at least for their biggest holdings.  Gates’s  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  dropped 6.3 percent this week.
Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  slid 3.9 percent.  Arturo Elias , a spokesman for Slim, declined to comment in
an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  