-- 
Smith & Nephew Says Investments to Weigh on 2011 Profitability

-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 
2011-08-05T09:48:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/smith-nephew-says-investments-to-weigh-on-2011-profitability.html
Smith & Nephew Plc (SN/)  said investments
will weigh on profit margins this year as the company
restructures its business in developed markets and increases
spending on acquisitions, research and development.  Europe ’s biggest maker of artificial hips and knees plans
“substantial” acquisitions in advanced wound-care and
minimally invasive surgery, Chief Executive Officer Olivier Bohuon said during a conference call with reporters today.  The company will also cut costs in the U.S. and Europe and
invest the savings in faster-growing emerging markets and
product development. Over the next five years London-based Smith
& Nephew will increase spending on research and development by
$300 million and invest $500 million in  Brazil ,  India ,  China  and
 Russia , Bohuon said.  “Growth in established markets has grown harder,” Bohuon,
who became CEO on April 14, said at a conference with analysts.
“Growth now has to come from taking market share. On the other
hand, emerging-market economies have become even more
attractive.”  Second-quarter trading profit rose 4.4 percent to $236
million on improvement in the U.S. market for knee replacements
and a benefit from the weaker dollar. Trading profit excludes
reorganization and acquisition costs.  ‘Clear Miss’  Earnings per share of 18.1 cents matched the average
estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Profit dropped 3
percent excluding currency shifts, the company said.  Orthopedics sales in the U.S. are slowing as unemployment
or other financial constraints prompt patients to delay knee-and
hip-replacement surgery. Growth in hip replacements was
unchanged from the same period last year, the company said.  “It was a clear miss on margins,” Lisa Bedell Clive, an
analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd. in  London , said in an
interview today. “The pricing environment in orthopedics
appears to be getting worse.”  Sales rose 12 percent to $1.08 billion, topping the $1.06
billion average estimate of 17 analysts. Revenue rose 5 percent
excluding currency changes at the endoscopy unit and 8 percent
at the wound-management business. Sales of orthopedics increased
4 percent, though Europe continues to be weak and some pricing
has become negative, Smith & Nephew said.  ‘Here to Stay’  “Price pressure is here to stay,” Bohuon said.  Smith & Nephew rose 6 pence, or 1.1 percent, to 570 pence
at 10:10 a.m. in London, giving the company a market value of
5.1 billion pounds ($8.3 billion).  The company increased the interim dividend by 10 percent to
6.6 cents a share and will be paid out Nov. 1.  The manufacturer still expects to grow faster than
competitors in its three main businesses.  Bohuon said it’s too early to tell whether the company will
cut jobs in developed markets. The company has brought its
orthopedics and endoscopy units together under single management
and called it the Advanced Surgical Devices Division, Bohuon
said.  Smith & Nephew reports earnings in dollars. The decline of
the U.S. currency during the past year boosts the value of
revenue from outside the U.S. when translated into dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  