-- 
Snakes Get Lobbyists in Fight Over Boa Ban

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-08-05T14:35:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/snakes-get-lobbyists-too-as-breeders-charm-congress-to-fight-u-s-boa-ban.html
Andrew Wyatt says he could have
picked an easier job than defending slithering creatures that
squeeze their food to death and then swallow it whole.  “If you go and talk snakes to guys from Congress, their
eyes cross over,” Wyatt, 47, said in an interview. “They don’t
want to hear a word you say.”  Wyatt, president of the  U.S. Association of Reptile
Keepers , is lobbying in  Washington  to preserve the right to
import boa constrictors and eight varieties of pythons and
anacondas and to transport them across state lines, Bloomberg
Government reported.  The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service wants to designate the
snakes ecologically disruptive “injurious species,” a label
that would prohibit interstate transactions. Burmese pythons
have infested southern Florida, reproducing quickly and blending
into their surroundings.  In a town where every cause and business concern pays for
representatives to influence government -- there’s an
indoor-tanning association and even a lobby for lobbyists --
the snake group stands out because it must champion a species
that gets star billing in horror films.  Wyatt’s group, based in Grandy,  North Carolina , casts the
proposed designation as an example of governmental overreach, a
common refrain in Washington. The reptile-keeper’s association
emphasizes the potential economic harm much as power companies
are fighting clean-air regulations with warnings of high costs
and unemployment.  The snake rule, now under review by the White House’s
Office of Management and Budget, would hurt a “nontraditional
form of agriculture,” Wyatt said.  Hiring Lobbyists  Wyatt, a former snake breeder, said he is paid $80,000 a
year by the reptile breeders’ association. The group also hired
New York-based Kelley Drye & Warren LLP in April to help make
its case to Congress and the Obama administration. The  law firm 
registered as lobbyists on the snake issue and was paid $10,000
in the second quarter, according to Senate records.  The proposed rule targets the nine largest and most
frequently traded snakes that wrap around their prey and kill by
tightening their grip. They are native to  Indonesia ,  Pakistan ,
 Sri Lanka  and parts of  South America  and sub-Saharan  Africa ,
although most sold in the U.S. are bred domestically.  Importers declared about 1.8 million of the constrictor
snakes from 1999 to 2008, according to the Fish & Wildlife
Service. About 832,000 live reptiles of all varieties with a
value of $4.2 million were brought into the U.S. last year,
according to the U.S. International Trade Commission.  Asian Carp, Nutrias  The Interior Department said it will spend about $100
million this year to combat invasive species such as the pythons
in Florida, Asian carp and nutrias. A python’s American diet can
include wrens, deer and even alligators.  The snake species considered for the federal listing could
survive in about one-third of U.S. states and territories, the
 U.S. Geological Survey  said in a report by scientists at its
Fort Collins Science Center in  Colorado .  Climate change  may extend their habitat as far north as  New
York  and Washington state by 2100, according to the study.  The threat of Burmese pythons slinking toward  Manhattan  is
overblown, according to a 2008 study by scientists at the City
University of New York. They said weather patterns will confine
them to the Everglades and far-southern  Texas .  Listing the snakes as injurious may cost the reptile
industry as much as $104 million in domestic sales each year, or
$1.2 billion over the next decade, driving some breeders out of
business, Kelley Drye & Warren said in a report for its clients.  The Fish and Wildlife Service found the industry would lose
$3.6 million to $10.7 million a year and about 200 jobs may
disappear.  Small Businesses  The U.S. Small Business Administration’s Office of
Advocacy, which reviews U.S. regulatory proposals, said in a May
10, 2010, letter to Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  that the
federal calculations didn’t fully examine the “significant
economic impact on a substantial number” of small businesses.  More than 1 million Americans own the snakes the Fish and
Wildlife Service wants to restrict, according to Wyatt.  Bob Clark, who says his breeding business in Oklahoma City
has revenue of $1 million a year and employs five people, said
he recently sold two white reticulated pythons with piebald
markings for $25,000 each.  “It doesn’t happen every day,” he said in an interview.
“But if it doesn’t happen at all, I’m going to miss it because
that’s how I make my living.”  The customer was a breeder in  Poland . Clark said his export
business would suffer under the rule because he wouldn’t be able
to deliver snakes to a port.  ‘Silent Hunters’  Preventing the snakes’ spread is worth the potential cost,
Valerie Fellows, a spokeswoman for the fish and wildlife
service, said in an interview. “There is no 100 percent
eradication method” once species start reproducing, she said.  Snakes recommended for the injurious-species list can grow
to more than 25 feet (7.6 meters). The constrictors are “silent
hunters that lie in wait” to ambush their targets, the fish and
wildlife agency said.  The South  Florida  Water Management District petitioned the
U.S. in 2006 to list the Burmese python as a danger after
thousands appeared in the Everglades. Boas are also established
south of Miami, according to the Geological Survey’s  website .  The python population is an “ecological calamity in
progress,” and a threat to already imperiled species such as
the  Key Largo woodrat , known for building stick houses, and the
 wood stork , a long-legged wading bird that nests in cypresses
and mangroves, the National Environmental Coalition on Invasive
Species wrote in a May 2010 letter supporting the rule. Among
six groups in the coalition are Defenders of Wildlife and the
National Wildlife Federation.  Florida’s Ban  Florida banned the in-state sale of seven types of
constrictors as pets last year. Snake owners could keep their
animals as long as they implanted identifier microchips and paid
$100 annually for a permit.  A group of congressional Republicans have embraced the
snake-breeders’ argument that a ban would damage merchants more
than it would help the environment.  In a July 19 letter to the White House, Senator  Lisa Murkowski  and Representative Don Young, both from  Alaska , and
Senator Orrin Hatch and Representative Rob Bishop, both of  Utah ,
urged Cass Sunstein, the administrator of the regulatory affairs
office, to reject the rule.  The proposal “eliminates a whole category of small
business,” the lawmakers wrote. They called it “a generalized
solution to a localized problem.”  “We haven’t made them reptile lovers or anything,” Wyatt
said of the lawmakers. “The question is, ‘Are you going to let
bad regulation kill jobs?’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  