-- 
South Africa Faces ‘Downside Risk’ From Europe Debt Crisis, Mminele Says

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-08-05T09:03:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/south-africa-faces-downside-risk-from-europe-debt-crisis-mminele-says.html
Europe ’s debt crisis may undermine
South Africa’s economic outlook at a time when domestic
indicators show growth is weakening, central bank Deputy
Governor  Daniel Mminele  said.  “Risks to the downside are increasing,” Mminele told
economists in Johannesburg today. Data since the last Monetary
Policy Committee meeting on July 21 “appear to suggest that we
are going to see certainly weaker numbers.”  Greece ,  Portugal  and other European nations are crimping
spending to ease budget deficits, curbing growth in Europe,
which buys about a third of South African manufactured exports.
The Reserve Bank has left its benchmark interest rate unchanged
at a 30-year low of 5.5 percent this year as the recovery in
 Africa ’s biggest economy faltered.  “The rate is going nowhere soon, at least not upwards,”
said Johan Rossouw, chief economist of Vunani Securities Ltd.
“The very earliest we’re going to see rates going up now is
sometime in the middle of next year.”  Manufacturing, which makes up 15 percent of South Africa’s
economy, is under pressure after the Purchasing Managers Index
declined to a two-year low of 44.2 in July, indicating a drop in
production. South Africa’s jobless rate, the highest of 61
countries tracked by Bloomberg, increased to 25.7 percent in the
second quarter as 174,000 became unemployed, Statistics South
Africa said on July 28.  Broader Mandates  Investors have pared expectations of an  interest rate 
increase this year. The yield on a 12-month forward-rate
agreement, which investors use to lock in borrowing costs, has
dropped to 6.05 percent today from 6.99 percent on May 13,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That indicates traders
now predict the key rate will be half a percentage point higher
in a year’s time.  The global economic crisis requires central banks to
broaden their mandates, rather than focus only on  price
stability , Mminele said.  “We’ve certainly abandoned the paradigm which
characterized how central banks typically operated prior to the
crisis where there was always a very strong specialization on
stabilizing prices,” he said. “There has been a broadening of
central bank mandates and what is expected of them in
forthcoming challenges and in this country.”  The  Reserve Bank  aims to keep the inflation rate, which
reached a 15-month high of 5 percent in June, within a range of
3 percent to 6 percent. Inflation is forecast to breach the
upper limit of the target band in the fourth quarter and average
6.3 percent in the first three months of 2012, according to the
central bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  