-- 
South Korea to Hold an Emergency Meeting on Aug. 7 After Global Stock Rout

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 
2011-08-05T05:21:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/south-korea-to-hold-an-emergency-meeting-on-aug-7-after-global-stock-rout.html
South Korean policy makers will hold
an emergency meeting on Aug. 7 to discuss the global economy and
turmoil in the financial markets, the Ministry of Strategy and
Finance said.  Deputies from the  finance ministry , the Bank of Korea, the
Financial Services Commission and the Financial Supervisory
Service will attend the meeting in Gwacheon, south of  Seoul , the
ministry said in an e-mailed statement today.  “The authorities will closely monitor the markets and act
to keep the financial markets stable,” the ministry said. “Our
focus is on capital flows and foreign  exchange rate  on top of
stock and bond markets both at home and abroad.”  South Korea ’s Kospi stock index fell 3.8 percent to
1,942.71 as of 1:30 p.m. in Seoul, tumbling along with the rest
of  Asia ’s equity markets amid concern the U.S. economic recovery
is petering out. The global market rout may prompt the Bank of
 Korea  to stand pat on  interest rates  next week, said Kong Dong Rak, fixed-income analyst at Taurus Investment & Securities Co.  “At the Sunday meeting, the government will try to
convince market players that the financial system is working
well, with a strong commitment that they will actively respond
to any signs of credit crunch,” said Kong, based in Seoul.
“Policy makers would not want to add any surprises to the
market. They will likely put any plans for capital flow controls
on the shelf and hold off interest-rate increase next week.”  Won Drops  The Kospi has fallen about 11 percent in a four-day retreat,
the steepest losing streak since November 2008. The won dropped
0.6 percent to 1,068.55 per dollar, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The currency touched 1,074.49 earlier, the weakest
level since June 29.  Market volatility in the nation should be brief given its
economic strength, fiscal health, sufficient foreign-exchange
reserves and well-diversified export markets, the ministry said.  The Financial Services Commission and Financial Supervisory
Service held an emergency meeting this morning to discuss
measures to cope with the market turmoil. The regulators will
set up three teams that will monitor corporate funding,
currencies and the bond and stock markets, according to an e-
mailed statement from the regulator.  Meanwhile, the  Bank of Korea  is also closely watching the
markets, said Min Sung Kee, director general of the central
bank’s financial markets department.  “The stock market’s fall is largely in line with the U.S.
losses and our strong economic fundamentals should attract
investors back soon,” he said in a telephone interview from
Seoul today.  The Bank of Korea will meet Aug. 11 to decide whether to
raise interest rates to tame inflation that’s exceeded its 4
percent target every month this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net ;
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  