-- 
Spanish, Italian Bank Funding Squeeze Risks Triggering European Recession

-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y ,   L i a m   V a u g h a n   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 
2011-08-05T15:21:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/spanish-italian-bank-funding-squeeze-may-force-loan-cuts-damage-economy.html
Spanish and Italian banks may have to
curtail lending, threatening the European economy, as funding
markets freeze amid the region’s sovereign debt crisis.  Yields on the two nations’ government bonds have climbed to
records this week amid speculation European Union leaders will
struggle to avert the euro area’s first default. That’s pushed
up the cost of borrowing for banks including  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,
Italy’s biggest, and  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , Spain’s largest.  The five biggest banks in each of the two countries have
about 240 billion euros ($340 billion) of debt maturing by 2013,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. They haven’t sold bonds
since June, and money market rates show the interbank lending
market is freezing. That may force banks to curtail lending,
which could tip the region’s economy into recession just as
governments are struggling with record deficits.  “It may create a slowdown in economic activity,” Jean Pierre Mustier, head of corporate and investment banking at
UniCredit, said in an interview. “There’s a disconnect between
the markets and human ability to solve the crisis. We need to
buy time.”  Banks across western  Europe  sold about 7.3 billion euros of
euro-denominated debt last month, down from 13.8 billion euros
in June and 33 billion euros in May, Bloomberg data show.  Lenders in Spain and Italy have been unable to sell bonds:
the last sale of more than 500 million euros was June, when
Santander sold 1 billion euros of covered bonds backed by loans
to local governments. In Italy, the most recent sale was a 750
million-euro offering of senior notes by  Mediobanca SpA (MB)  in June.  Euribor  Signs of stress in the interbank funding market are
worsening. The difference between the three-month euro interbank
offered rate, or Euribor, and the overnight indexed swap rate, a
gauge of banks’ willingness to lend, climbed to 0.558 percentage
point yesterday, the widest spread since June 2009. It was at
0.548 percentage point today and was at 0.360 a week ago. A
wider spread indicates greater reluctance.  Firms are wary of lending to each other and are increasing
the amount they deposit with the  European Central Bank . Europe’s
lenders deposited 12.2 billion euros in the ECB’s overnight
deposit facility on Aug. 3, the most since February.  The cost of insuring European bank debt against default
surged to a record today. The Markit iTraxx Financial Index
linked to senior debt of 25 European banks and insurers rose to
211 basis points today.  “At some point this does start feeding back into the real
economy if it goes on for too long,”  John Raymond , an analyst
at CreditSights in  London , said in a telephone interview.  ‘Huge’ Pressure  The ECB yesterday said it would offer euro-area banks as
much money as they need for six months and extend its existing
liquidity measures through the end of the year in a bid to stop
the crisis spreading.  “Banks will simply have to go to the ECB for funding,”
said  Ronny Rehn , bank analyst at KBW Inc. in London. “They will
also face huge amounts of pressure from smaller banks which have
been entirely cut-off from wholesale markets.”  The surge in borrowing costs also means banks may become
less willing to make new loans as their own funding costs rise,
Raymond said. Santander allowed its domestic  loan book  to shrink
by 7 percent in the year through June. UniCredit said on an Aug.
3 it’s being choosier about to whom it lends and charging
customers more to borrow.  “Banks will pull many levers to adjust,” Morgan Stanley
analysts led by Huw Van Steenis said in an Aug. 3 report to
clients. They could “constrain credit availability further,
issue at wider spreads which will hit earnings power, delever or
sell asset pools to reduce funding needs.”  ‘Real Economy’  The pressure on government and bank funding costs in  Spain 
“could feedback to the real economy” the  International
Monetary Fund  said in a July 29 report, while the Bank of Spain
today warned that “possible repercussions of market tensions”
are the real “main threat” to growth.  To be sure, the larger banks did raise funding in the first
part of the year. Santander sold 32 billion euros of medium and
long-term bonds in the first half to replace 21 billion euros of
bonds maturing. The lender could tap 100 billion euros from
central banks, the lender said in a July 27 presentation to
analysts. The bank needs to refinance as much as 37 billion
euros next year, according to Bloomberg data.  A spokeswoman for Santander, who asked not to named in line
with company policy, declined to comment on funding.  Unicredit Chief Executive Officer  Federico Ghizzoni  told
analysts on Aug. 3 the lender had already raised 85 percent of
the 32 billion euros it requires this year. The bank needs to
refinance a further 32 billion euros in 2012.  Banks may also resort to other sources of financing, said
Rehn. Unicredit can still raise funds through its units in
 Germany ,  Poland  and  Austria  and could also offer bonds with
retail customers in  Italy .  “It will be more expensive and margins will be hit, but
there may not be another choice,” said Rehn. “The central bank
will not sit back idly and allow the banks to falter. It will
say ‘If you have to pay up, pay up.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty at   cpenty@bloomberg.net 
Liam Vaughan at   lvaughan6@bloomberg.net 
Elisa Martinuzzi at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net 
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  