-- 
Italian, Spanish Economic Growth Sluggish as Crisis Threatens Recovery

-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 
2011-08-05T12:07:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/spanish-economic-growth-slows-on-euro-debt-crisis-stress-1-.html
Italian and Spanish economic growth
remained sluggish with weak domestic demand complicating efforts
to convince investors the countries can expand enough to reduce
debt and avoid becoming victims of Europe’s sovereign crisis.  Gross domestic product in  Italy  rose 0.3 percent in the
second quarter from the previous three months, when it grew 0.1
percent, Rome-based national statistics institute Istat said
today. Spanish GDP expanded 0.2 percent from the January-March
period, when it increased 0.3 percent, the Bank of Spain
estimated today. Industrial output fell in June in both
countries and in  Germany , separate reports showed today.  Combined with “market tensions and higher  interest rates ,
the economy is very likely to contract” in the third quarter,
 Luigi Speranza , an economist at BNP Paribas in London, said in a
note about Italy.  “Increased uncertainty in recent months has accentuated
the downside risks for economic growth,” Spain’s central bank
said in its monthly economic bulletin, released in Madrid today.  Italian and Spanish 10-year bond yields have risen above 6
percent and the two countries are seeking to avoid the fate of
 Greece , Ireland and Portugal, which sought rescues after their
borrowing costs surged above 7 percent. Austerity measures in
both nations are damping growth prospects and support for the
governments of Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  and Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero of  Spain .  Spain over Italy  Spanish borrowing costs fell below those of Italy today for
the first time since May 2010 on speculation the Iberian
nation’s lower debt load makes it more able to withstand
contagion from the region’s fiscal crisis. Spain’s debt as a
percentage of GDP last year was 60 percent, about half that of
Italy’s.  Spain’s 10-year bonds rallied, with the yield tumbling 23
basis points from a euro-era record close yesterday to 6.05
percent at 1 p.m. in London. Italian 10-year yields fell two
basis points to 6.18 percent. Spanish bonds yielded as much as
81 basis points more than their Italian counterparts as recently
as June 16. Italy has the region’s second-biggest debt burden
after Greece.  Benchmark stock indexes in both countries gained today,
snapping five days of losses that left Italy the worst performer
among  Europe ’s biggest economies this year. The benchmark FTSE
MIB Index is down more than 19 percent in 2011, while Spain’s
IBEX 35 Index has shed 10 percent.  EU Efforts  The latest efforts by EU leaders to stem the spread of the
debt crisis failed to stop the slide in Italian and Spanish
bonds. EU leaders agreed to a second-bailout plan for Greece on
July 21 and also adopted measures to strengthen its bailout fund
to help nations before they need a rescue.  “What happens now to Spain’s borrowing costs will depend
on the decisions made by politicians at the European level,”
said Cagdas Aksu, a fixed-income analyst at  Barclays Capital  in
 London . “The markets can go either way very quickly.”  A lack of details in the euro-area leaders’ debt-crisis
plan has contributed to the slide in markets,  European Central
Bank  Governing Council member Luc Coene said today.  “There were a lot of gray areas where it wasn’t entirely
clear what was decided,” Coene, head of Belgium’s central bank,
told RTBF radio in Brussels. “This unnerved the markets. It all
wasn’t entirely clear and has to be spelled out in the coming
weeks, but the markets don’t have this patience.”  Rehn’s Response  Olli Rehn, the European Union’s commissioner for economic
and monetary affairs, said today that technical and political
details of revamping the EU’s main bailout mechanism will be
completed by early September.  Spain’s government forecasts the economy will grow 1.3
percent this year even after it cut public wages, froze pensions
and axed benefits to reduce the euro region’s third-largest
budget gap by half in two years. Italy’s economy will expand 1
percent in 2011, the  Bank of Italy  forecast on July 15.  The Bank of Italy expects Italian growth to continue to lag
behind the euro-area average for the next two years, Bank of
Italy Governor  Mario Draghi  said on July 13. Austerity measures
won’t be enough for Italy and other euro-region countries to
reduce debt if not accompanied by policies to boost economic
growth, the European Central Bank’s incoming president said.  Italian economic growth has trailed the euro-region average
for more than a decade.  Losing Momentum  “Business surveys over the last few months point to a
clear loss of momentum in both manufacturing and service
activity going ahead,” said  Chiara Corsa , an economist at
UniCredit Research in Milan.  Spain and Italy have relied on exports to spur the
recovery.  Indra Sistemas SA (IDR) , Spain’s largest computer-services
company, said on Aug. 2 it’s betting on foreign markets to
offset domestic weakness. Enel SpA, Italy’s biggest power
company, said on Aug. 3 that new generation capacity in Russia
and Iberia will help sustain its earnings in months to come.  Data released today showing German industrial output fell
1.1 percent in June “confirm that, amid financial market
turmoil and the peripheral debt crisis, a broader economic
slowdown is taking place,”  Jennifer McKeown , an economist at
 Capital Economics  in London, said in a note. “Germany cannot be
relied upon to buy exports from the euro-zone’s periphery or
maintain growth in the region as a whole.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Milan at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;
Angeline Benoit in  Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net 
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net . 