-- 
Sparx’s Abe Says Global Rout Impact on Asia Is Limited

-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i
-- 
2011-08-05T07:00:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/sparx-s-abe-says-global-rout-impact-on-asia-is-limited-correct-.html
(Corrects spelling of Sparx in headline.)  Shuhei Abe, chief executive officer
of Sparx Group Co.,  Asia ’s second-biggest hedge fund, comments
on the global stock rout, the strength in the yen and outlook
for Japanese markets. Sparx has about 650 billion yen ($8.3
billion) in assets.  Japan ’s benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average dropped 3.7
percent to 9,299.88 at the 3 p.m. close in Tokyo, sliding the
most since March 15. Japanese stocks plunged by the most in more
than four months as concern the global economy is stalling
triggered an equities rout that drove the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index to its worst slump since 2009.  On the stocks sell-off:  “The sell-off is a reflection of investors’ concerns over
global growth. U.S. growth prospects remain uncertain, financial
concerns are stemming from  Europe , while  China’s economy  may
slow down. On top of that, the aftermath of Japan’s disaster and
potential impact on overall growth still remains.  “The outlook for the U.S. remains a concern and it’s not
going to get resolved in a day or two. Still, Asia will likely
become the leading market going forward, especially looking at
the short-term growth prospect.”  On the yen:  The yen yesterday touched 80 to the dollar for the first
time since July 12 after the government sold the currency and
the  Bank of Japan  added to monetary stimulus measures. It
recently traded at 78.52 yen per dollar.  “The Japanese government has sent a clear message to the
market amid this strength in the yen. While the strength in the
yen does have an impact on companies that are directly supplying
products to consumers, some companies that are in the middle
market making capital goods are less affected nowadays.  “There are more Japanese companies with positive earnings
surprises than those with downward revisions amid expectations
for increased demand for rebuilding after the earthquake. So the
pessimism over Japan’s outlook is less than that of the U.S.’s
growth prospects now in the market.”  On the outlook for the Japanese market:  “Global risk is of course negative for the Japanese market,
in the short term, but the big trend of growth in the long run
doesn’t change. The latest catastrophe has become a catalyst to
change many Japanese managements’ mindset.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in  Tokyo  at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  