-- 
State Department Advises U.S. Citizens to Leave Syria Because of Violence

-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 
2011-08-05T23:30:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/state-department-advises-u-s-citizens-to-leave-syria-because-of-violence.html
The State Department today urged all
U.S. citizens in  Syria  to leave the country immediately, citing
“ongoing uncertainty and volatility” as protests mount against
President Bashar al-Assad.  Those who must remain in Syria should limit all non-
essential travel within the country, the department said. The
warning also advised U.S. citizens to defer all travel plans to
Syria.  The State Department said several Syrian cities, including
the capital, Damascus, have been placed on “heightened
security,” while travelers on Syrian roads have encountered
“an increased number of checkpoints and roadblocks.”  With the Assad regime attributing the country’s protests
and violence to foreign influences, detained U.S. citizens could
find themselves accused of incitement or espionage, the
department said.  The travel warning came on a day when Syrian security
forces killed at least nine people as Assad’s army pressed its
attack on the central city of Hama.  Tens of thousands of protesters took to the streets in
cities such as Aleppo and Homs.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  yesterday said Assad has
“lost his legitimacy to govern,” though she stopped short of
calling for him to step down.  More than 2,000 people have been killed since
demonstrations against the Assad regime began in March, Clinton
said.  April Alert  In April, the State Department ordered all eligible family
members of U.S. government employees, along with some non-
emergency personnel, to leave Syria.  The U.S. embassy in Damascus was attacked by pro-Assad
demonstrators in July, resulting in the embassy’s closure for
one day.  Clinton said the U.S. is working “around the clock” to
build international support for increased measures to isolate
the Assad regime, including economic sanctions.  The  United Nations Security Council  issued a statement this
week condemning Assad’s military crackdown.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in  Washington  at 
 Dlerman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 