-- 
Swiss Stocks Drop in Longest Streak Since 1988 as Swatch Slips

-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-08-05T13:03:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/swiss-stocks-decline-for-the-longest-losing-streak-since-1988.html
Swiss stocks fell for a 10th
consecutive day, the longest stretch of losses since at least
1988, after the franc set a record against the euro.  Swatch Group AG (UHR) , the world’s biggest watchmaker, slid 0.7
percent. Nobel Biocare AG, the second-biggest maker of dental
implants, dropped to its lowest price since 2003.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI) , a measure of the biggest and most
actively traded companies, declined 0.3 percent to 5,268.17 at
2:46 a.m. in Zurich. The gauge entered a  bear market  yesterday
after plummeting more than 20 percent from this year’s record
close on Feb. 18 as  Europe ’s debt crisis and the slowing global
economy prompted investors to buy the Swiss franc, reducing the
value of exporters’ revenue. The broader Swiss Performance Index
dropped 0.7 percent today.  “A counter-movement is long overdue,” Benno Galliker, a
trader at Luzerner Kantonalbank in Lucerne, wrote in a report
today. “But with the weekend ahead, investors’ willingness to
hold positions will be kept to a minimum. A disappointment in
today’s labor data in the U.S. would be difficult to cope with,
while positive numbers could be the start of a rally.”  A Labor Department report showed that employers added more
jobs than forecast in July, the jobless rate fell and wages
climbed, easing concern the  U.S. economy  is grinding to a halt.  Payrolls rose by 117,000 workers after a 46,000 increase in
June, beating the median estimate of 85,000 in a Bloomberg News
survey. The jobless rate dropped to 9.1 percent as more
Americans left the  labor force , while average hourly earnings
climbed 0.4 percent.  Franc Strength  The Swiss franc strengthened to a record 1.0711 versus the
euro today. The Swiss Central Bank won’t exclude any “effective
measures” to curb the advance of the Swiss franc, Swiss
National Bank President Philipp Hildebrand told Neue Zuercher
Zeitung in an interview.  “We clearly communicated that we are willing to take
further measures if those are necessary,” Hildebrand was quoted
as saying in response to a question about whether the SNB had
opted to boost liquidity rather than sell Swiss francs.  Hildebrand also said it’s important for the central bank to
have an alternative to cutting or raising  interest rates  when it
comes to conducting monetary policy.  Global stocks had their biggest one-day rout since March
2009 yesterday. A measure of global equities fell more than 10
percent from this year’s high in May, entering a correction amid
concern that economic growth is slowing. The MSCI All-Country
World Index of stocks today fell 1 percent, extending
yesterday’s 4.1 percent decline.  Watch Probe  Swatch group lost 0.8 percent to 367.20 Swiss francs.
European Union antitrust regulators will probe luxury-watch
manufacturers over allegations they refused to supply spare
parts to independent watch menders.  The European Commission said it will investigate a
complaint by the European Confederation of Watch & Clock
Repairers’ Associations after an EU court ruled that regulators
were wrong to dismiss the group’s concerns in 2004.  Nobel Biocare dropped 0.9 percent to 13.35 francs, its
lowest price since March 2003, after Daniel Jelovcan, an analyst
at Bank Vontobel, pared his price target for the stock to 11
francs from 17 francs.  “We believe it is still too early to become more bullish
on the name and believe that the share price will experience a
roller coaster going forward,” Jelovcan wrote in a note to
clients today.  Roche Holding AG , the world’s top maker of cancer drugs,
dropped 2 percent to 130.50 francs as a gauge of European
health-care companies was among the worst performers among the
19 industry groups in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  