-- 
Syrians Protest in Cities as U.S. Advises Its Citizens to Leave Country

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y   a n d   D a v e   L e r m a n
-- 
2011-08-06T16:31:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/syrians-protest-across-country-as-assad-army-presses-tank-attacks-on-hama.html
Syrians rallied in cities across the
country demonstrating against the rule of President Bashar al- Assad as the U.S. advised its citizens to leave the country
because of the unrest.  Tens of thousands of people marched yesterday in Aleppo,
Homs, Qamishli, Deir Al Zour and the northern province of Idlib,
said Mahmoud Merhi, head of the Arab Organization for Human
Rights, and Ammar Qurabi of the National Organization for Human
Rights.  U.S. citizens are advised to defer travel plans to  Syria 
and those who remain in the country should limit all non-
essential travel, the State Department said late yesterday in a
statement from Washington.  Protests against Assad began in March after uprisings
toppled leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt . President  Barack Obama ,
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German Chancellor Angela Merkel yesterday “agreed to consider additional steps to
pressure the Assad regime and support the Syrian people” beyond
the Aug. 3 statement of condemnation by the  United Nations
Security Council , according to the White House.  Obama held separate phone calls with Sarkozy and Merkel
about the violence against Syrians by Assad’s regime, the White
House said in a statement.  At least 29 people were killed in yesterday’s protests on
the first Friday of Ramadan, the Muslim holy month of fasting,
Qurabi said today. The killings took place in the capital,
Damascus, and in the cities of Hama, Daraa and Homs, he said.  Damascus Violence  Protesters were shot dead in the suburbs of Damascus, Merhi
said. Al-Arabiya said government forces fired on ambulances in
the city. Two Syrian security forces members were killed Aug. 4
and eight wounded in an ambush by an “armed terrorist group,”
the state-run  SANA news agency  said.  Syrian tank crews and snipers waged an assault this week on
the central city of Hama, site of a 1982 massacre, prompting
international condemnation. U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary
Clinton  said Assad has “lost his legitimacy to govern.”  Syrian government forces have killed more than 200 people
this week, most of them in Hama where homes and mosques have
been hit by tank fire, according to Qurabi and Merhi. There were
no rallies yesterday in Hama, where dozens of tanks have been
deployed in and around the city, Qurabi said.  Military Attacks  Military attacks on Hama began July 31, the eve of Ramadan,
as opposition forces vowed to step up their campaign. The city,
which has mostly been under the control of protesters for the
past month, was the center of an uprising almost 30 years ago
against Assad’s father Hafez, crushed with a death toll of
10,000, according to  Human Rights Watch .  Corpses were lying in the city’s streets as sniper fire
made it difficult to retrieve them, Qurabi and Merhi said. The
exact number of casualties in Hama in the past day is difficult
to assess as communications and power have been cut off, they
said. There is a shortage of bread and people are rationing
food, Merhi said.  About 2,200 protesters have been killed in Syria since
March, according to Merhi and Qurabi. More than 500 members of
the security forces have been killed, Deputy Foreign Minister
Fayssal Mekdad told  India’s News X channel  this week. Most
foreign journalists have been banned since the start of the
revolt.  “Actions speak louder than words,” Clinton said when
asked by reporters in  Washington  why she stopped short of
calling for Assad to give up power. The U.S. is seeking
international support for “actions to send a very clear message
to the Assad regime that there’s a price to pay,” she said.  Heightened Security  Cities, including Damascus, have been placed on
“heightened security,” while travelers on Syrian roads have
encountered “an increased number of checkpoints and
roadblocks,” the State Department said in Washington.  With the Assad regime attributing the country’s protests
and violence to foreign influences, detained U.S. citizens could
find themselves accused of incitement or espionage, it said.  The UN Security Council hasn’t issued the resolution
condemning violence in Syria that the U.S. and European allies
have sought. It issued a statement Aug. 3 expressing “grave
concern” at the deaths and human rights abuses.  Assad, who came to power in 2000, has blamed the protests
on foreign-inspired plots, while acknowledging that the
demonstrators have some legitimate demands. He issued a decree
two days ago easing curbs on political parties and setting up a
commission to regulate parliamentary elections.  GCC Statement  Syria will hold “free and fair” parliamentary elections
“before the end of the year,” Foreign Minister Walid Muallem
said today according to the state-run SANA news agency. He said
the new legislator will “reflect the aspirations of the Syrian
people.”  The Gulf Cooperation Council today denounced the Syrian
government’s “excessive use of force, which has caused many
deaths and wounded among the Syrian people”, the six-member
group said in a statement on its website.  The GCC called for “an immediate cessation to all acts of
violence”, the group said. The GCC consists of  Saudi Arabia ,
Bahrain, Qatar, Oman,  Kuwait  and the  United Arab Emirates .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut , Lebanon at   mderhally@bloomberg.net ;
David Lerman in Washington at 
 Dlerman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  