-- 
U.K. Producer-Price Inflation Accelerates to 5.9%, Fastest Pace Since 2008

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-08-05T08:40:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/u-k-producer-price-inflation-accelerates-to-5-9-fastest-pace-since-2008.html
U.K. producer prices rose in July as
food and clothes costs surged, pushing the annual rate to the
fastest since October 2008.  The cost of goods at factory gates increased 0.2 percent on
the month and 5.9 percent on the year, the  Office for National
Statistics  said today in  London . The monthly gain matched the
median forecast of 18 economists in a Bloomberg News survey,
while the annual change exceeded a 5.8 percent estimate. Input
costs jumped the most since April on the month.  Higher prices for oil and other commodities have pushed up
costs for companies. Along with a sales-tax increase and the
pound’s drop, that has boosted consumer-price inflation to more
than double the Bank of England’s target. Still, officials kept
the key  interest rate  at a record low yesterday as the recovery
falters. The economy barely grew in the second quarter and
manufacturing shrank in July.  “Manufacturers are to some extent getting squeezed and
that’s not going to change any time soon,”  Brian Hilliard ,
chief U.K. economist at Societe Generale SA in London, said
before the report was published. “Input prices are still very
elevated, but are weakening. The inflation rate will take a
while to come down.”  The pound was little changed against the dollar after the
data, and traded at $1.6264 as of 9:37 a.m. in London, from
$1.6258 yesterday.  Clothes Prices  On the month, output prices rose in eight of 10 categories,
with food prices up 0.5 percent and clothes prices up 0.6
percent, the statistics office said. On the year, all but one
category recorded an increase. Clothes prices jumped 5.2 percent
on the year, the most since records began in 1997.  Core producer prices, which exclude costs of food, alcohol,
tobacco and petroleum, rose 0.3 percent in July from the
previous month, the most since April, and were up 3.3 percent
from a year earlier.  Raw-material costs rose 0.6 percent on the month in July
and soared 18.5 percent on the year, the most since September
2008. The annual gain was led by crude oil.  Unilever, the world’s second-biggest maker of  consumer
goods , this week reported the highest price growth in more than
two years in the second quarter. The London- and Rotterdam-based
company lifted underlying prices by 5.1 percent in a bid to
combat surging costs for ingredients such as palm oil and sugar.  Price Outlook  U.K. consumer-price inflation was 4.2 percent in June, more
than twice the Bank of England’s 2 percent goal. Governor  Mervyn King  has said the price surge is temporary and will ease through
2012. Crude oil has dropped about 25 percent since reaching a
2011 high close to $115 a barrel in May, undoing part of a surge
earlier in the year.  Price growth may also cool as waning demand curbs
companies’ ability to pass on costs. A measure of manufacturers’
expected selling prices dropped to the lowest since 2009 last
month, according to the  Confederation of British Industry , the
U.K.’s biggest lobby group.  “An easing of oil and commodity prices from their peak has
modestly eased pressure on manufacturers to raise their prices
to protect their margins,” said  Howard Archer , an economist at
IHS Global Insight in London. “The recent marked slowdown in
activity is causing manufacturers to become more circumspect
about raising their prices.”  Next Plc (NXT) , the U.K.’s second-largest clothing retailer, said
on Aug. 3 that it anticipates a “more benign year” for input-
cost inflation in 2012 after higher prices in the first half
contributed to a spending slowdown.  “Headline inflation is at the moment the biggest drag on
 consumer spending ,” Chief Executive Officer Simon Wolfson said.  l  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  