-- 
U.S. Economy: Payrolls Increased More Than Forecast in July

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-08-05T20:13:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/u-s-payrolls-rose-more-than-estimated-117-000-in-july-jobless-rate-9-1-.html
American employers added more jobs
than forecast in July and wages climbed, easing concern the
world’s largest economy is grinding to a halt.  Payrolls rose by 117,000 workers after a 46,000 increase in
June that was larger than earlier estimated, the Labor
Department said today in Washington. The median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey called for a gain of 85,000. The jobless
rate dropped to 9.1 percent as discouraged workers left the
labor force. Average hourly earnings climbed 0.4 percent.  Faster job gains are needed to bolster consumer spending,
which makes up 70 percent of the economy and rose last quarter
at the slowest pace in two years. At the same time, the report
may relieve pressure on  Federal Reserve  policy makers meeting
next week to take immediate steps to sustain the recovery.  “There is not a lot to celebrate even though it was better
than most feared,” said  Richard DeKaser , an economist at
Parthenon Group in  Boston , who correctly forecast the gain in
payrolls. “The latest data don’t really reach the threshold of
exigent action by the Fed.”  Treasuries fell, pushing yields up from the lowest this
year. Yields on 10-year notes rose 17 basis points, or 0.17
percentage point, to 2.57 percent at 4:04 p.m. in  New York . The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell to 1,199.38 at the close, down
less than 0.1 percent from yesterday and extending the worst
slump since 2009 as technology shares declined.  Obama’s Call  President  Barack Obama , three days after signing a measure
to cut at least $2.1 trillion from federal budget deficits over
a decade, used today’s jobs report to renew his call for an
extension of  unemployment benefits  and a temporary payroll tax
reduction.  “There’s no contradiction between us taking some steps to
put people to work right now and getting our long-term fiscal
house in order,” Obama said at the Washington Navy Yard, where
he was promoting a proposal to give tax credits to companies
that hire unemployed military veterans. “The more we grow, the
easier it will be to reduce our deficits.”  Estimates of the 88 economists surveyed by Bloomberg for
overall payrolls ranged from no change to a 150,000 increase.
The unemployment rate was projected to hold at 9.2 percent,
according to the survey median. Estimates ranged from 9.1
percent to 9.4 percent.  The jobless rate declined as 193,000 people left the  labor
force  and the number of unemployed dropped by 156,000. The share
of the eligible population holding a job declined to 58.1
percent, the lowest since July 1983.  Giving Up Search  “More and more individuals are giving up the job search,”
said Patrick O’Keefe, a former deputy assistant secretary of
labor and current director of economic research at J.H. Cohn LLP
in Roseland,  New Jersey .  Private hiring, which excludes government agencies, climbed
154,000 last month after an 80,000 gain. It was projected to
rise by 113,000, the survey showed.  Some companies are firing workers to keep costs down as the
economy slows and uncertainty builds over the European default
risk and U.S. regulatory and tax costs.  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the largest networking-equipment maker,
plans to eliminate about 6,500 jobs, or 9 percent of its full-
time global workforce, to help trim $1 billion in annual costs
and step up profit growth.  Government payrolls decreased by 37,000 in July, the ninth
straight drop. Employment at state governments fell 23,000 last
month, almost entirely due to a partial shutdown of the
Minnesota government.  Minnesota Workers  About 23,000 Minnesota state workers were temporarily laid
off during a three-week shutdown that ended July 21 after the
Republican-controlled legislature passed a budget as part of a
broad agreement that included more spending while preventing a
tax increase.  Payroll increases of around 125,000 a month are needed to
keep the  unemployment rate  steady, while about 200,000 a month
would bring it down a percentage point over a year, according to
 Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont Securities LLC in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut .  The  S&P 500  tumbled 4.8 percent yesterday and two-year
Treasury yields plunged to a record low on signs the recovery is
flagging.  “It looks like a garden variety soft patch for the economy
to us -- no more, no less,”  Chris Rupkey , chief financial
economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in New York, said
in an e-mail after today’s jobs report.  Bernanke’s View  In his semi-annual testimony to Congress last month, Fed
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the “economy still needs a good
deal of support.”  “Wages are very stagnant and that’s affecting  consumer
spending  and  consumer confidence ,” Bernanke said on July 13.
“There is also ongoing uncertainty about the durability of the
recovery.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  meets for one day on Aug.
9. At their last meeting in June, Fed officials decided to keep
the central bank’s balance sheet at a record to spur the slowing
economy after completing $600 billion of bond purchases.  Consumer borrowing jumped in June by the most in four
years, led by a gain in non-revolving debt, including  student
loans , a report from the Federal Reserve also showed today. The
$15.5 billion surge in credit was three times as much as
projected by economists surveyed and was the biggest gain since
August 2007.  Borrowing More  Unemployment and elevated gasoline and food costs may be
straining household budgets, prompting consumers to borrow to
pursue more schooling or turn to their credit cards to purchase
necessities.  The economy grew at a less-than-forecast 1.3 percent pace
in the second quarter following revised growth of 0.4 percent in
the first three months of the year that was less than previously
estimated, Commerce Department figures showed last week.
Consumer spending grew 0.1 percent, the smallest gain since the
second quarter of 2009, the final months of the recession.  Factory payrolls jumped by 24,000 in July after an 11,000
gain in the previous month. Half the increase was in the auto
industry, which had fewer seasonal layoffs than typical for
July.  Employment at service-providers increased 75,000 in July,
the most in three months. Construction employment rose by 8,000
workers, the biggest gain since February.  Average hourly earnings climbed 10 cents to $23.13, today’s
report showed. The average work week for all workers held at
34.3 hours.  The so-called underemployment rate -- which includes part-
time workers who’d prefer a full-time position and people who
want work but have given up looking -- decreased to 16.1 percent
from 16.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  