-- 
Airlines Seen Rolling Back Fare Boost as U.S. Taxes Return

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 
2011-08-05T19:58:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/u-s-airlines-to-rescind-fare-hike-as-tax-returns-jpmorgan-says.html
Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  may lead U.S.
carriers in rolling back a fare increase as federal ticket taxes
and fees are restored, ending a two-week industry windfall.  Collections must resume by midnight Aug. 8, the  Internal
Revenue Service  said today in Washington. Carriers probably will
wait to drop prices to extend gains from the temporary boost,
with Southwest, the biggest discount operator, likely to be the
first to act, according to travel website FareCompare.com.  “I wouldn’t be shopping for tickets this weekend,”
FareCompare.com Chief Executive Officer  Rick Seaney  said in an
interview. “There’s no incentive to do something right now
until someone dips their toe in first. But it’s coming.”  Airlines boosted fares after the Federal Aviation
Administration’s revenue-raising authority lapsed July 22,
halting collection of a 7.5 percent sales tax on domestic
tickets and a fee of $3.70 a flight segment. Increasing base
fares by the same amount produced more revenue for airlines
without consumers seeing a difference.  “Leaving fares unchanged would translate into a healthy 10
percent fare increase, but rarely has the industry raised fares
by this magnitude in a single effort,”  Jamie Baker , a  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  analyst in  New York , wrote in a note to clients. He
also said Southwest will be the first to cut prices.  “We have not announced any changes and we can’t comment on
future fares,” said Brandy King, a Southwest spokeswoman.  Senate Action  The  U.S. Senate  approved legislation today extending the
FAA’s funding authority through mid-September. While that law
would permit the IRS to  retroactively collect taxes  from
passengers who bought tickets over the past two weeks, the IRS
said it wouldn’t attempt to do so.  Passengers who purchased fares that included taxes before
collections were suspended won’t be eligible for a refund, the
IRS said.  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , Southwest,  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC) 
and  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU)  were among the carriers that had said
they would grant refunds once the IRS issued guidelines.
The industry collected about $28 million a day from the
increase, or about $400 million total during the standoff in
Congress over funding the FAA, Baker estimated. The agency has
been operating on a series of short-term extensions since its
last multiyear authorization expired in September 2007.  Lag Time  A lag time between when the taxes return and when airlines
rescind the equivalent fare increase could result in unwary
consumers paying both, said Seaney, the CEO of Dallas-based
FareCompare.com.  Demand for travel doesn’t appear to be strong enough to
support what would amount to a $40 or $50 price increase for
domestic tickets if airlines attempt to keep their higher prices
in place once the taxes resume, Seaney said. The first airline
to roll back the fare increase probably will force all the
others to do the same, he said.  “We’re getting toward the end of summer when things slow
down anyway,” Seaney said. “The airlines are probing two
things: the appetite of the consumer and the appetite of the
competition.”  Southwest said yesterday that it’s slowing planned capacity
growth through 2012 to reduce operating costs after a series of
price increases appeared to discourage travel.  “We think we pushed fares about as much as we should right
now to be productive,” CEO  Gary Kelly  said on a conference
call. The Dallas-based airline boosted prices at least seven
times in the first quarter, an unprecedented number, he said.  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s American Airlines began trying to raise fares
today, boosting round-trip prices by $4 to $10 on many domestic
routes plus Alaska, Hawaii and Canada, and  US Airways  and Air
Canada started matching on some flights, Seaney said. Carriers
typically drop fare increases when others don’t follow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  