-- 
U.S. Company Credit Risk Drops on Jobs Report, ECB Bond-Buying Speculation

-- B y   W i l l   R o b i n s o n
-- 
2011-08-05T21:11:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/u-s-company-credit-risk-falls-from-highest-since-october-on-jobs-report.html
A measure of U.S. corporate credit
risk fell from its highest level since September as U.S.
payrolls grew by more than expected and on speculation the
 European Central Bank  was planning purchases of Italian and
Spanish government bonds.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
dropped 1.1 basis points to a mid-price of 102.9 basis points as
of 4:34 p.m. in New York. It reached as high as 107 basis points
earlier today.  The gauge, which typically rises when investor confidence
deteriorates, climbed by 6.5 basis points yesterday. Credit
traders pushed the index lower today as the U.S. government’s
jobs report showed payrolls rose by 117,000 workers last month,
exceeding the median estimates of 85,000. Italy’s Prime Minister
 Silvio Berlusconi  said he would aim to balance the debt-strapped
nation’s budget in 2013, possibly to induce the European Central
Bank to buy the country’s bonds.  “There is at least temporary relief,” said Noel Hebert, a
credit strategist at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities USA Inc. in  New
York . “The Italian and Spanish stuff really seems to be getting
out of control.”  The Italian and Spanish economies are sluggish, with weak
domestic demand complicating efforts to convince investors the
countries can expand enough to reduce debt and avoid becoming
victims of  Europe ’s sovereign credit crisis.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meets its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt.
A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting
$10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Will Robinson in New York at 
 wrobinson11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  