-- 
U.S. Commodities Day Ahead: Raw Materials Decline for Eighth Day

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e
-- 
2011-08-05T11:38:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/u-s-commodities-day-ahead-raw-materials-decline-for-eighth-day.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Commodities Post Worst Run Since 2008, Erasing Gains for Year  Commodities declined for an eighth day, the longest losing
streak since December 2008, and erased their gains for the year
as concern deepened that the global economic slowdown would
reduce demand for raw materials.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  India  Top Court Allows NMDC to Produce From Its Bellary Mines  India’s Supreme Court allowed NMDC Ltd. to produce 1
million metric tons of  iron ore  a month from its mine in
Bellary.  GMR Infrastructure Seeking ADB Backing to Attract Bond Investors  GMR Infrastructure Ltd., an Indian builder of roads,
airports and  power plants , is in talks to get partial guarantee
from the Asian Development Bank to make its planned $268 million
bond sale attractive to foreign investors.  China Elbows Into German Soccer as Solar Rivalry Hits Field (1)  Chinese solar companies are reaching into the homes of
German soccer fans for the first time, ramping up advertising to
oust local suppliers from Europe’s biggest power market.  Indonesia May Surpass  Japan  as Biggest Wheat Buyer in Asia (2)  Indonesia, the world’s fourth-most populous nation, may
boost wheat and flour imports 10 percent this year as surging
sales of instant noodles and cookies stoke demand, according to
an industry group.  Clean Power Stocks Close to Bottom as Vestas Falls, Impax Says  Clean energy stocks are approaching a floor after European
austerity measures and cheap U.S. natural-gas pushed wind and
solar companies lower, Impax Asset Management Ltd. said.  Japan Promotes Shipyard Mergers on Chinese, Korean Competition  Japan, dethroned as the world’s biggest shipbuilding nation
over the past decade, is promoting mergers among local shipyards
to help compete with China and  South Korea .  Hoarding Gold Beats Charts Over 25 Years: Technical Analysis  A buy-and-hold strategy for gold made investors more money
during the past quarter century than any technical analysis
tool.  Art Treasure Faces Meltdown on Records for Gold, Silver Futures  Experts are watching thousands of valuable heirlooms be
melted down as financial-market turmoil boosts investors’ demand
for precious metals.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Escondida Workers Vote to End Strike, Sign Deal With BHP (1)  Workers at BHP Billiton Ltd.’s Escondida unit in  Chile 
voted for a package of benefits to end a strike at the world’s
biggest copper mine as soon as today.  Copper Slumps to Five-Week Low on Concern Growth Will Falter  Copper fell to a five-week low in  London , on course for the
biggest weekly drop since March, as commodities and equities
plunged on concern a faltering global economy will curb demand.  Shanghai Copper Inventories Rise Fourth Week; Aluminum Drops (1)  Copper stockpiles monitored by the Shanghai Futures
Exchange increased for a fourth week, while aluminum inventories
declined to a 26-month low.  MINING:  Glencore May ‘Prove Mettle’ in Commodities Rout, Liberum Says  Glencore International Plc, the listed raw materials trader
that’s slumped 18 percent in London trading this week, may
“prove its mettle” in the current rout in commodities prices,
said Liberum Capital Ltd.  Zimbabwe Diamond Production Surges After Marange Sales Allowed  Zimbabwe became the world’s seventh- biggest diamond
producer by value in 2010, up from 13th the previous year,
statistics released by the Kimberley Process and New York-based
Rapaport show.  Richards Bay Coal Terminal Shipments Fell 27% From Year Ago  Richards Bay Coal Terminal, on  South Africa ’s east coast,
shipped 4.36 million metric tons of the fuel in July, 27 percent
less than a year earlier.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold Gains in London as Financial Turmoil Boosts Investor Demand  Gold climbed in London as turmoil in financial markets
boosted demand for the metal as a protection of wealth. Platinum
and palladium fell.  AngloGold Plans Trial to Tap $118 Billion of 3-Mile Deep Ore (1)  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd., which owns the world’s deepest
mine, will within two years trial new mining methods in South
Africa to access almost $118 billion worth of gold lying more
than three miles underground as it expects gold prices to keep
rising from this year’s record.  Gold May Gain on Currency Alternative, Debt Woes, Survey Shows  Gold may extend gains from a record as investors seek a
protection of wealth and an alternative to currencies, a survey
found.  AGRICULTURE:  Uganda  Waives Tax on Sugar Imports for Six Months, Minister Says  Uganda will waive all taxes on sugar imports for the next
six months to allow the country to import 40,000 metric tons of
the sweetener, said Fred Omach, the minister of state for
finance.  Palm Oil Inventory in  Malaysia  Advances to 19-Month High (1)  Palm oil stockpiles in Malaysia, the second-largest grower,
probably climbed to the highest level in 19 months in July as
production peaked on favorable weather, according to a Bloomberg
News survey.  Palm Oil Drops as Commodities Plunge on U.S. Recovery Concern  Palm oil dropped the most in more than five weeks as
commodity and equity markets slumped on concern that the U.S.
economic recovery may stall.  Wheat Falls a Third Day as Commodities Drop on Slowdown Concern  Wheat fell for a third day in  Chicago , extending the
biggest drop in five weeks, as commodities and equities plunged
on concern a faltering global economy will curb demand. Corn and
soybeans slid.  China  Said to Be Planning Soy Sale to Rotate State Inventory (1)  China, the biggest soybean consumer, plans to sell 4
million metric tons of the oilseed from government warehouses to
make room for this year’s harvest, four trading executives
familiar with the matter said.  Japan to Spend $1.1 Billion to Contain Tainted Beef Crisis (1)  Japan will spend 85.7 billion yen ($1.1 billion) to buy
back beef and cattle tainted by radiation in an attempt to curb
losses among producers and ease food safety fears.  Cocoa May Drop in London on Ivory Coast Output; Coffee Advances  Cocoa may decline in London on speculation of plentiful
supplies from the Ivory Coast, the world’s largest producer.
Coffee rose.  SHIPPING:  Vitro, Marc Dreier, A&P, Borders, Spiegel: Bankruptcy  Ten subsidiaries of Vitro SAB, the Mexican glassmaker,
filed papers asking the bankruptcy judge in Dallas to assess
$6.2 million in damages against bondholders who filed
unsuccessful involuntary Chapter 11 petitions. The dispute goes
to the bankruptcy judge for decision on Aug. 23.  ECONOMIES:  China 6% Inflation Limits Loosening as Stock Rout Hits Asia (1)  China, which led the rebound from the global recession in
2009, may have limited room to counter weakening growth in the
U.S. and  Europe  as inflation restrains policy makers from
loosening monetary policy.  Yuan Debt Worst in BRICs as PBOC Battles Inflation: China Credit  Yuan-denominated bonds are the only local-currency debt
among the biggest emerging nations delivering a loss as
investors bet quickening inflation will force China to keep
raising  interest rates .  HSBC, BEA Chiefs Say Currency Basket Can Replace  Hong Kong  Peg  Hong Kong should consider replacing the local dollar’s 28-
year peg to the greenback in favor of an  exchange rate  managed
against a basket of currencies, the chief executives of HSBC
Holdings Plc and Bank of East Asia Ltd. said.  Trichet’s Firepower Faces Test as Rout Withstands ECB Buying (2)  European Central Bank  President Jean-Claude Trichet may be
forced to step up his fight against the sovereign debt crisis
after a resumption of bond purchases yesterday failed to halt a
rout in Italy and Spain.  U.S. Payroll Gain Was Likely Too Small to Cut Unemployment (1)  American employers probably failed to create enough jobs in
July to reduce the jobless rate, showing anxiety over government
debt deliberations and a slowdown in  consumer spending  have
shaken confidence, economists said before a report today.  OTHER MARKETS:  Stocks Tumble for Eighth Day as Commodities Drop; Franc Weakens  Stocks dropped for an eighth day, the longest losing streak
since January 2010, and commodities declined on concern the U.S.
recovery is faltering. The Swiss franc weakened and the yen
strengthened.  Franc Falls as Hildebrand Calls Strength ‘Absurd;’ Yen Rebounds  Switzerland’s franc weakened, falling from a record against
the euro, after Swiss National Bank President Philipp Hildebrand
said the central bank won’t exclude any measures to curb the
currency’s advance.  Yen Intervention Only ‘Buys Time’ as U.S. Slows: Japan Credit  Japan’s third intervention in a year may fail to halt the
yen’s appreciation as the slowing U.S. economy reduces the
appeal of dollar-denominated assets.  European Stocks Retreat as RBS, Allianz, Dexia Shares Decrease  European stocks and U.S. futures retreated, with the
benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index heading for its biggest weekly
loss since November 2008, as concern escalated the economic
recovery is stalling. Asian shares sank.  Worldwide Equity Rout Erases Year’s Gains in Developed Markets  A global rout in equities sparked by concern economic
recoveries in the U.S. and Europe may stall wiped out gains this
year for major benchmark indexes in the world’s developed
markets.  Oil Drops to Lowest in Eight Months Amid Global Rout on Economy  Oil fell to the lowest in eight months in  New York , set for
the biggest weekly decline since May, on speculation fuel demand
will falter as U.S. economic growth falters and Europe’s debt
crisis worsens.  Europe’s Leaders Race to Tackle Crisis as Spanish Bonds Gain  European leaders returned to the hunt for solutions to the
debt crisis, helping Italy and Spain gain a a respite from the
market turbulence after the resumption of the European Central
Bank’s bond-buying program.  Syria’s Assault on Hama Unhindered by Criticism of Assad (2)  Syrian tank crews and snipers pressed on with their assault
on Hama, site of a 1982 massacre, as U.S. Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  said that President Bashar al-Assad has “lost
his legitimacy to govern.”  Emerging Stocks Tumble, Currencies Fall on Global Recession Risk  Emerging-market stocks slumped for a fourth day, sending
the benchmark index to its largest weekly rout in 15 months, as
Europe’s debt crisis and weaker U.S. economic data heightened
the risk of a global recession.  SPORTS:  Arsenal to Play Udinese in Champions League Soccer Playoff Round  The following are the matchups for the playoff round of
European soccer’s Champions League. The winners of the two-match
series, which will be played Aug. 16-17 and Aug. 23-24, advance
to the group stage. The first team listed plays the opening
match at home.  Arsenal Rejects Third Barcelona Bid for Fabregas, Sky Reports  Arsenal has rejected a third bid from Barcelona for
midfielder Cesc Fabregas, Sky Sports reported on its website.  Kroenke Backs Arsenal’s $65 Million Fabregas Valuation: Roundup  The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K.
newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  