-- 
U.S. Debt Deal Kills Off Prospects of Renewable-Power Support

-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-08-05T14:47:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/u-s-debt-deal-kills-off-prospects-of-renewable-power-support.html
U.S. government support for renewable
energy may plunge from record levels, setting back the use of
wind and solar power before they can compete on their own with
oil, gas and coal.  Direct spending, tax breaks and research funding pushed
federal renewable-energy subsidies to $14.7 billion in 2010,
according to Alan Beamon, director of the  Energy Information
Administration ’s Office of Electric, Coal, Nuclear and
Renewables Analysis. Project developers are lining up for
subsidies approved in the 2009 stimulus bill as incentives
expire and the deficit-reduction deal dims prospects for future
backing of solar panels and wind farms.  “The debt agreement, which is focused on cuts only and not
revenue increases, makes it more likely that this infant sector
gets strangled before it matures,” Daniel J. Weiss, a senior
fellow at the Center for American Progress, a Washington policy
group that advises Democrats, said in an interview with
Bloomberg Government.  The deal on a debt-limit increase that Congress and
President  Barack Obama  struck to avert a U.S. default would
result in at least $2.1 trillion in spending cuts, according to
the  Congressional Budget Office . Additional savings of at least
$1.2 trillion would come from enactment of a deficit-reduction
bill or from automatic spending cuts if Congress fails to accept
a package framed by a 12-member panel.  Direct Pressure  “The potential lapse of key subsidies at the end of 2011
puts the pressure all the more directly on the clean-energy
sector to drive down costs and become more competitive between
now and then,” according to a Dec. 13 report by Bloomberg New
Energy Finance.  The Treasury Department has paid out $7.78 billion in
grants to developers of wind, solar, biomass and geothermal
energy under an incentive that was created in the stimulus bill
and lapses at the end of the year. Tax credits for wind, solar
and geothermal projects end in 2012 and 2016.  “I will be working hard to preserve renewable energy
incentives, but it will be more difficult to do so going
forward, and that is one reason I opposed the deficit deal,”
Senator  Robert Menendez , a New Jersey Democrat, said in an e-
mail. “Oil company incentives do not sunset, but renewable
incentives do.”  Government aid for renewable energy is up from $5.12
billion in 2007, according to the EIA. Subsidies are expected to
decline beginning this year, and will fall 77 percent by 2016
from the record in 2010, according to the White House Office of
Management and Budget.  Tax Credits  The expiring grants from the Treasury filled a void in
 project financing  that followed the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. three years ago. The grants were offered after the
recession sapped demand in the tax equity market, where tax
credits earned by solar and wind project developers could be
sold to companies seeking to reduce their tax burden.  The tax credits also will expire unless Congress approves
an extension. The production tax credit, used mainly by wind-
farm developers, runs out at the end of 2012. The investment tax
credit, which goes primarily to solar and geothermal projects,
ends in 2016.  “The truth is that paying equity subsidies for green
energy is expensive,”  Kevin Book , managing director at
ClearView Energy Partners LLC, a Washington-based policy
analysis firm, said in an interview. “Who will be the strong
voice to defend credits, and which credits get defended?”  Other subsidies for energy, which go both to renewable
sources and oil and gas, may also be targeted by the
congressional debt-reduction panel.  Tax Code   Written into the federal tax code are benefits valued at
$24.2 billion for renewable energy and efficiency incentives
through 2014, compared with an estimated $17.9 billion for the
oil, gas, and coal industries, according to a December report by
the congressional  Joint Committee on Taxation .  “We’ve only just started supporting renewable energy,”
Ellen Vancko, manager of the Nuclear Energy and Climate Change
Project at the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based  Union of Concerned
Scientists , said in an interview. “We need to allow these
technologies to mature so they don’t need subsidies.”  Globally,  government spending  on renewable energy peaked
last year at $74.5 billion and will decline to $68 billion this
year before dropping to $21.4 billion in 2013, according to New
Energy Finance.  In the U.S., the 2009 stimulus bill provided $65 billion
for clean energy, including loan guarantees for solar and wind
power, funding for state programs to help make homes more energy
efficient, research into battery-powered cars and trucks and
systems to capture carbon dioxide from power-plant emissions.
The bill also created the Treasury grant program.  Spent by Mid-2012  By the end of last year, the U.S. had spent 36 percent of
the $65 billion, according to Stephen Munro, an analyst with New
Energy Finance in Washington. By mid-2012, all the money should
be spent.  About $34 billion in stimulus funds will be spent on clean
energy this year, up from $13 billion in 2010, Munro said. The
remainder, about $18 billion, will be delivered by July 2012 as
continued disbursements for Treasury grants and accelerated
depreciation for renewable technologies, he said.  Projects that begin construction this year can qualify for
a Treasury grant. Payments under the program, made when the
renewable  power source  goes into service, are expected to reach
a high of $4.26 billion this year and end in 2016 with $620
million in outlays, according to the White House Office of
Management and Budget.  The grant program was extended through this year in a
December 2010 tax deal.  ‘Political Football’  “The Treasury grants are very vulnerable in the current
fiscal mood and the production tax credit has always been a
political football,” said Nathanael Greene, director of
renewable  energy policy  at the  Natural Resources Defense Council 
in  New York . “Wind energy has the most at stake right now.
Expiry of the credits would put a lot of people on the street.”  The stimulus bill also included $6 billion for  Department
of Energy  loan guarantees to back renewable projects, a figure
later reduced to $2.5 billion. The department said in May it
stopped work on a loan guarantee for Cape Wind off of
 Massachusetts  because there wasn’t enough money for all
applicants. The first U.S. offshore wind farm is projected to
cost $2.6 billion. Funding for the loan guarantee program fell
to $170 million in the current budget.  About 75,000 jobs in the U.S. are in the wind-power
industry, according to  Denise Bode , chief executive officer of
the  American Wind Energy Association , a trade group in
 Washington .  Current wind “projects are safe, and prospects for
extension of the program beyond 2012 are as good as ever,” Bode
said in an e-mail. “I had a front-row seat to  tax reform  in the
mid-1980s, and I feel confident that wind incentives will
survive this process.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  