-- 
U.S. IBD/TIPP August Economic Optimism Index (Text)

-- B y   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 
2011-08-05T19:30:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/u-s-ibd-tipp-august-economic-optimism-index-text-.html
Following is the text of the
August economic optimism index as released by TechnoMetrica
Market Intelligence and Investors Business Daily.  The IBD/TIPP Economic Optimism Index declined by 5.6 points, or
13.5%, to a historic low in August posting 35.8 vs. 41.4 in July.
IBD/TIPP began tracking in February 2001.  The index is 8.8
points below its 12-month average of 44.6 and 8.6 points below
its reading of 44.4 in December 2007 when the economy entered
into the recession, and 14.4 points below its all-time average
of 50.2.  Note: Index readings above 50 indicate optimism; below 50
indicate pessimism.  The IBD/TIPP Economic Optimism Index has a good track record of
foreshadowing the confidence indicators put out later each month
by the  University of Michigan  and The Conference Board.
IBD/TIPP conducted the national poll of 921 adults from July 31
to August 4. The margin of error is +/-3.3 percentage points.  The IBD/TIPP Economic Optimism Index has three key components,
all of which declined in August.  •     The Six-Month Economic Outlook, a measure of how consumers
feel about the economy’s prospects in the next six months,
decreased 8.0 points, or 20.2%, to 31.7.  The sub-index was 32.1
when the economy entered the last recession in December 2007.  •     The Personal Financial Outlook, a measure of how Americans
feel about their own finances in the next six months, declined
4.4 points, or 8.6%, to reach its historic low of 46.8. The
previous low was 47.3 in June 2008.  •     Confidence in Federal Economic Policies, a proprietary
IBD/TIPP measure of views on how government economic policies
are working lost 4.6 points, or 13.8%, to reach its historic low
of 28.8 - the previous low occurred in October 2008 (30.9).  “The weak confidence strongly suggests that the economy has
fallen into recession, driven by high unemployment, under
employment and low confidence in the government’s ability to
improve the economy,” said Raghavan Mayur, president of TIPP, a
unit of TechnoMetrica Market Intelligence, IBD’s polling partner.
“This month, 29% of households say that at least one member of
the household is looking for a full-time job.”  “Along with other soft and even recessionary readings from the
economy, this is just another sign that  Washington ’s recent
policies to stimulate the economy haven’t worked as intended,”
said  Terry Jones , associate editor of Investor’s Business Daily.
“This could have major consequences for the political debate
shaping up as we enter an election year.”  The Breakdown  This month, all of the 21 demographic groups that IBD/TIPP
tracks were below 50 on the Economic Optimism Index. Twenty
groups declined on the index.  On the Economic Outlook component, none of the 21 groups that
IBD/TIPP tracks scored in optimistic territory.   All 21 groups
declined.  On the Personal Financial component, five of the groups IBD/TIPP
tracks scored in optimistic territory. Two groups advanced on
the component and nineteen declined.  On the Federal Policies component, none of the 21 demographic
groups tracked was above 50.  Seventeen groups declined on the
component and four advanced.
*     *     *  ABOUT THE IBD/TIPP POLL
The IBD/TIPP Economic Optimism Index is the earliest take on
 consumer confidence  each month and predicts with 80% reliability
monthly changes in sentiment in well-known polls by The
Conference Board and the University of Michigan. The IBD/TIPP
Economic Optimism Index is based on a survey of 900-plus adults
chosen at random nationwide. The poll is generally conducted in
the first week of the month.  SOURCE: TechnoMetrica Market Intelligence and Investors Business
Daily  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristy Scheuble in Washington at 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  