-- 
U.S. Postal Service May Seek Higher Debt Limit, Donahoe Says

-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 
2011-08-05T21:11:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/u-s-postal-service-posts-3-1-billion-loss-for-third-quarter.html
The U.S.  Postal Service , which
predicts an annual loss of as much as $9 billion, said it may
ask Congress to raise its $15 billion debt limit unless
lawmakers allow changes like stopping Saturday deliveries or
closing more post offices.  Even if Congress allows the Postal Service to delay a
required $5.5 billion payment next month for future retiree
health-benefit costs, the agency will “barely” have the  cash
flow  to continue operations when its fiscal year starts in
October,  James Miller , chairman of the postal board’s audit
committee, said today.  “One of the things we’d have to look at is talking to
people about looking at getting some breathing room with our
debt limit since we’ve hit our limit of $15 billion,”
Postmaster General Patrick Donahoe told reporters after a board
meeting in Washington.  The Postal Service will reach its debt limit at the end of
September, spokesman David Partenheimer said. The agency, which
has a $3 billion annual borrowing limit, had $784 million of
 cash  and cash equivalents as of July, according to preliminary
data. The Postal Service is seeking to stem losses as more
people use the Internet to correspond, receive publications and
pay bills.  Senators Thomas Carper, a Delaware Democrat, and  Susan Collins , a Maine Republican, and Representative  Darrell Issa , a
California Republican, each have proposed legislation to make
the Postal Service solvent.  Shuttering Post Offices  The service said in July it could save $200 million a year
by closing about 12 percent of its almost 32,000 post offices.  The net loss narrowed to $3.1 billion in the third quarter
ended June 30 from a $3.5 billion net loss a year earlier, Chief
Financial Officer Joseph Corbett said today.  The service cut work hours 3.1 percent, or 9.2 million
hours, in the quarter, including through the retirement of 1,850
administrative employees.  The volume of first-class mail, the most profitable mail
category, fell 6.4 percent.  “Within the past year, the Postal Service’s financial
situation has gone from bad to worse to worst,” Art Sackler,
coordinator of the Coalition for a 21st Century Postal Service,
said in an e-mail. “If Congress does not enact bold reforms
soon, the tailspin the Postal Service is in will pass the point
of recovery.” The group’s members include Bank of America Corp.
and Verizon Communications Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in  Washington  at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  