-- 
Unions Oppose Congress Action on Korea, Colombia Trade Deals

-- B y   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z
-- 
2011-08-05T16:22:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/unions-oppose-congress-action-on-korea-colombia-trade-deals.html
The AFL-CIO, the nation’s largest
labor union federation, will lobby Congress to oppose free-trade
agreements with  Colombia  and  South Korea  and pass legislation
that adds U.S. jobs, President  Richard Trumka  said.  “We will be talking to every legislator out there,”
Trumka said today on a conference call with reporters. Trade
deals are “not what is needed right now. We need  job creation .
We need infrastructure spending. We need aid to state and local
government. We need to do everything we can do to actually put
people back to work.”  Trumka cited a study from the Washington-based  Economic
Policy Institute  that found the Colombia and South Korea deals
would cost 214,000 U.S. jobs. The Colombia accord is of
“special interest” to the AFL-CIO, because of the “number of
trade unionists targeted for assassination” in that nation, he
said. Lawmakers also are considering a trade deal with  Panama .  Business groups, including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce,
had pressed lawmakers to act on three pending trade deals along
with a program of aid for workers displaced by overseas
competition amid concern that companies will fall behind rivals
as the nations strike deals with other governments. The White
House has urged action on the deals as a means to spur hiring
amid 9.1 percent U.S. unemployment in July.  U.S. Senate leaders ended an impasse on Aug. 3 on the
stalled trade accords, agreeing to vote after the August recess
on benefits for workers who lose their jobs because of overseas
competition, and then take up the trade deals.  Seeking ‘Same Urgency’  Trumka said unions also are seeking “the same urgency”
from President  Barack Obama  on jobs that he applied during the
“manufactured crisis” on the debt limit. A slowing economy
that’s “dangerously close to dead” has been worsened by  Tea
Party  Republicans “pursuing an extreme ideology,” he said.  The AFL-CIO is planning to collect signatures from more
than 800,000 activists on petitions this month seeking urgent
action by Congress to create jobs, according to a statement.  Labor activists will attend meetings, fundraisers and local
events where lawmakers appear to demand action on jobs. Union
members will show up today and Aug. 8 at events held by
Representatives Scott Tipton and Cory Gardner, Colorado
Republicans who are backed by the Tea Party, the AFL-CIO said.  “It’s going to be a long, hot summer for legislators,”
Trumka said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Holly Rosenkrantz in Washington at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  