-- 
Hunting Buys Titan for $775 Million to Expand in Shale Oil

-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 
2011-08-05T15:42:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/hunting-buys-titan-for-775m-for-shale-oil.html
Hunting Plc (HTG) , a U.K. oil-services
provider, agreed to buy  Titan Group  from Riverstone Holdings LLC
for $775 million to expand in unconventional oil and gas
services in  North America . The shares fell the most since 2008.  The acquisition of Texas-based Titan gives Hunting
perforating gun systems for fracturing shale rock and other
hardware used in drilling and well maintenance, Hunting said
today in a statement. It raised 85.4 million pounds ($139
million) by selling 13.2 million new shares to part-fund the
purchase, it said in a separate statement.  Oilfield service providers are competing to boost market
share as energy companies add more unconventional hydrocarbon
projects, which include shale gas,  oil sands  and coal-bed
methane. London-based Hunting is also seeking to expand in the
U.S., where it expects investment in onshore drilling to rise 60
percent to $176 billion in 2016 from 2010, it said.  Hunting fell 10 percent to 646.5 pence in  London , the
biggest decline since Oct. 6, 2008.  “We have an acquisition strategy, we want to buy
businesses that have a global footprint,” Finance Director
 Peter Rose  said today in a telephone interview. With Titan,
“there is a potential to go global using our expertise.”  Earnings Outlook  Hunting, due to report first-half results on Aug. 25,
expects to post sales of about 250 million pounds and earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization of 35
million pounds. “The current trading and prospects for Hunting
is in line with its expectations for the year,” it said.  Hunting will start making Titan products outside the U.S.
and Canada, which account for about 95 percent of its revenue,
and is moving into Europe and  China , Rose said. In June, Hunting
opened an office in China, where shale gas resources may exceed
those in the U.S., according to the U.S. Energy Information
Administration.  “Titan’s perforating gun systems, charges, switches and
instrumentation are complementary to Hunting’s tools,” the
British company said. “Hunting is looking to gain further
exposure to high-growth unconventional resource plays.”  Titan has a market share of about 30 percent in the U.S.,
which may increase after the acquisition, Rose said. Hunting is
adding explosives to the guns Titan supplies to field-service
companies for fracturing wells underground.  As well as the share sale, Hunting will use cash and a 375
million-pound loan from  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) 
and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  to fund the Titan purchase.
Barclays Capital and RBS Hoare Govett Ltd. managed the share
sale, which represented about 9.9 percent of Hunting’s equity
before the placing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  