-- 
Turkey Stocks, Bonds Tumble as Bank Fails to Lift Worst Currency

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-08-05T13:59:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/turkish-lira-advances-after-bank-reserve-requirement-lowered.html
Turkish stocks slumped most in more
than a year and bonds weakened on concern central bank
intervention is failing to halt this year’s worst major-currency
depreciation.  The central bank offered to sell $50 million of foreign-
currency reserves in an auction today to help protect the lira,
and Governor Erdem Basci said there’s no fundamental or
technical reason for further depreciation. The currency tumbled
2.7 percent against the dollar yesterday, the most in more than
a year, after Basci unexpectedly cut the benchmark one-week repo
rate to an all-time low, citing the risk of recession imported
from  Europe .  “The markets had believed that this figure could have been
as high as $500 million and therefore this announcement made a
negative impact,” said Fatih Keresteci, a strategist at the
Turkish unit of HSBC Holdings Plc, wrote in a client note.  The  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  of shares fell the most since
May 2010, trading 5.2 percent down at 56,267.41 at 4:54 p.m. in
Istanbul, the lowest since July 2010. The two-year benchmark
bonds weakened for the first day in five, raising yields six
basis points, or 0.06 percentage points, to 8.53 percent, a
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc index showed.  The slump in the global credit markets threatens to dry up
the flows of foreign money that Turkey increasingly depends on
to finance its current-account deficit. The gap ballooned to
$68.2 billion, or about 9 percent of economic output, in the 12
months through May, the highest figure on records that go back
to 1984.  ‘Between a rock and a hard place’  The central bank also said today that it will release $930
million in liquidity by cutting the reserve requirement for
banks’ foreign-currency deposits, a measure that takes effect
Aug. 19.  “The way I see it we are between a rock and a hard place.
If there is no global recession and  Turkey  doesn’t slow down
then the central bank’s credibility gets damaged and the current
account deficit remains very high,” Adil Rizvi, director of
institutional sales at EFG Istanbul Securities, said in e-mailed
comments.  “If the central bank is right and the world economy slows
down rapidly then we have  risk aversion  on our hands and money
flows out. Low growth is not good for equities. It’s a lose-lose
situation now,” Rizvi said.  The lira gained 0.5 percent to 1.7318 per dollar at 4:04
p.m. in Istanbul after the U.S. jobless rate fell and wages
climbed, easing concern the  U.S. economy  is grinding to a halt.
Payrolls rose by 117,000 workers after a 46,000 increase in June
that was more than originally estimated, Labor Department data
showed today in  Washington .  The Turkish central bank has foreign-currency reserves of
$93 billion, according to data on its website as of July 29.  ‘Creating Panic’  If the lira falls further, the central bank in Ankara is
ready to increase the size of its daily auctions of dollars or
release more foreign-currency liquidity by further lowering
reserve requirements, Basci said in an e-mailed statement today.  The central bank “is creating panic in the lira
themselves. It is their doing and the foreigners who short and
go against them are loving life at the moment,” Isik Okte, a
trader at FinansInvest, said in e-mailed comments.  The lira has fallen about 11 percent this year, making it
the worst performer among 31 major currencies this year.  Investors should buy dollars with Turkey’s currency if the
lira appreciates while avoiding “chasing” lira weakness as
central bank may step in to support the currency, Morgan Stanley
said in a research note today.  “Any periods of sharp weakness are likely to be met with a
policy response to prevent any disorderly moves,” Morgan
Stanley analysts including James Lord wrote. Buying dollars on
signs of strength in the lira “is a strategy that makes
sense,” he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  