-- 
Turkish Central Bank Sells Dollars as Interest-Rate Cut Drives Lira Lower

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t   a n d   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-08-05T12:50:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/turkish-central-bank-may-sell-dollars-as-rate-cut-hurts-lira.html
Turkey ’s central bank began dollar
sales today with $93 billion available to defend a currency
whose slide accelerated after a surprise rate cut.  The bank sold $50 million in an auction, receiving $91
million of bids, and said future sales may be larger to help
protect the lira. The currency plunged to a two-year low after
the central bank reduced its benchmark yesterday, citing the
risk of a recession imported from  Europe . The lira pared losses,
adding 0.3 percent to 1.735 per dollar at 3 p.m. in Istanbul.  Governor Erdem Basci is seeking to shore up the lira as
counterparts in Japan and  Switzerland  do the opposite, trying to
stem currency gains as global market losses drive investors
toward the safest assets. Basci’s critics say it’s his policies
that left the lira vulnerable. By keeping borrowing costs at
record lows this year even as Turkey’s economy surged on the
back of a credit boom, he is squeezing the interest-rate premium
that attracts foreign cash to emerging markets.  “The central bank is taking large risks by cutting
 interest rates  in the current global environment,” Maarten-Jan Bakkum, an emerging markets strategist at ING Investment
Management in the Hague, which oversees about $460 billion, said
by e-mail. It “should be more worried about attracting capital
in difficult global times than about the negative impact from
the Euro zone crisis on Turkish growth.”  ‘Larger Buffer’  More than $4.4 trillion has been wiped off equity market
values worldwide since July 26, driving the MSCI All-Country
World Index down more than 10 percent from this year’s high.  The slump threatens to dry up the flows of foreign money
that Turkey increasingly depends on to finance its current-
account deficit. The gap ballooned to $68.2 billion, or about 9
percent of economic output, in the 12 months through May. That
makes Turkey vulnerable to swings in risk appetite and demands
“a larger buffer of both private and official foreign-exchange
reserves,” Moody’s Investor Services said on Aug. 3.  Instead of adding to Turkey’s savings, Basci is set to
start spending them. The central bank will announce at 11 a.m.
each day whether there’ll be a dollar auction.  The bank also said today that it will release $930 million
in liquidity by cutting the reserve requirement for banks’
foreign-currency deposits, a measure that takes effect Aug. 19.  At his disposal to combat a potential flight of investors
from the lira, Basci has reserves equal to about 18 weeks of
imports. That compares with about 22 weeks in  Poland  and 40
weeks in  Thailand , according to Bloomberg data.  Investors ‘Underwater’  The lira has fallen about 11 percent this year, meaning
losses for anyone who bought into lira-denominated bonds whose
yield peaked at 9.29 percent this year. The currency fell 2.5
percent yesterday, its biggest decline in 3 months.  “Any local bond investment is now underwater in currency-
adjusted terms, which is going to come as something of a
surprise to those who chased the apparently attractive yields on
offer earlier this year,”  Michael Shaoul , chairman of
Marketfield Asset Management, said in a note to clients.  Basci predicts that inflation, currently 6.3 percent, will
miss the year-end target of 5.5 percent, though he says it will
slow toward target levels by 2013. Pressure on prices is
declining as industrial output figures show the economy is
slowing from the 11 percent annual growth it reported in the
first quarter, the bank says.  ‘No Reason’  “There’s no technical or fundamental reason for the lira
to lose more value,” he said in an e-mailed statement today,
forecasting a “rapid improvement” in the current-account gap.  The central bank on July 25 halted dollar-purchase auctions
and returned $590 million to banks by cutting reserve
requirements. Basci said on July 28 that he has tools to prevent
further lira weakness.  The last time it used the dollar sales tool was in March
and April 2009, when it sold $50 million a day. In June 2006,
after a 16 percent slump in the lira the previous month, the
bank spent $1 billion in two days of auctions plus $2.1 billion
in direct purchases on the market to support the currency.  Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan , re-elected to a third
term in office on June 12, said July 27 that there’s no need for
concern over the value of the lira. The currency will naturally
find a “middle ground,” he said.  “The bank’s reserves might not look enormous, but there’s
plenty of ammunition there as long as it’s used to manage an
orderly depreciation, rather than defend a particular level,”
said  Inan Demir , chief economist at Finansbank AS in Istanbul.
Still, sales may start immediately because “there’s already
pressure on the market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net ;
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net . 