-- 
Viacom’s Profit Climbs 37% on Higher U.S. Cable-TV Ad Sales

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   B r e t t   P u l l e y
-- 
2011-08-05T20:46:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/viacom-quarterly-profit-climbs-37-on-higher-u-s-cable-advertising-sales.html
Viacom Inc. (VIA/B) , owner of the MTV network
and  Paramount Pictures , said third-quarter profit gained 37
percent on rising advertising sales at cable channels.  Net income climbed to $574 million, or 97 cents a share, in
the period ended June 30, from $420 million, or 69 cents, a year
earlier, New York-based Viacom said today in a statement.
Excluding costs to cut jobs, earnings of 99 cents a share beat
the 86-cent average of 25 analysts’ estimates.  Higher domestic ad sales at Nickelodeon, MTV and Comedy
Central drove earnings growth, as well as affiliate fees from
new deals with companies such as the Hulu LLC video-streaming
service and  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  Viacom follows Time Warner Inc. and  CBS
Corp. (CBS)  in reporting rising earnings that topped estimates.  “They are right in lockstep with the rest of the industry
in terms of the advertising rebound,”  Tuna Amobi , an analyst at
 Standard & Poor’s  in  New York , said in an interview. “This was
driven mostly by the media networks, and the next quarter we’ll
see the studio kick in, and we’re starting to see digital deals
become a major factor.”  Viacom, controlled by Chairman  Sumner Redstone , rose 83
cents, or 1.9 percent, to $44.93 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The Class B stock have risen 13.4
percent this year.  Affiliate Fees  Affiliate fees will grow by a percentage in the high-single
to low-double digits every year for “the foreseeable future,”
helped by new and renewed distribution agreements for Viacom’s
films and shows, Chief Executive Officer  Philippe Dauman  said on
a conference call.  “There is a lot more room for incremental growth from
these types of deals, both in the U.S. and internationally,”
Dauman said, referring to digital distribution agreements.  Viacom’s sales rose 15 percent to $3.77 billion, exceeding
the $3.49 billion average of 21 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Profit at the cable networks advanced 27 percent to $1.03
billion from a year earlier on sales of $2.39 billion, the
company said. Domestic advertising sales increased 12 percent.  Film-studio profit declined 29 percent to $49 million on
revenue of $1.41 billion.  “Transformers: Dark of the Moon,” the biggest U.S. movie
of the year, was released June 29 and will lift profit this
quarter,  Michael Morris , an analyst at Davenport & Co. in
Richmond, Virginia, wrote on July 29.  ‘Transformers’ Film  The third installment of “Transformers” from Paramount
has garnered $340.4 million in U.S. and Canadian box-office
sales through Aug. 3, according to researcher Box Office Mojo.
Worldwide, the film has collected $1.01 billion in ticket sales,
a sum shared with theater operators.  Box office revenue from “Transformers” and advanced sales
of advertising for the television season starting next month
will help this quarter’s results, Dauman said.  “Viacom has found its stride,” said Redstone, the 88-
year-old chairman and founder.  Time Warner, owner of Warner Bros. film studios, said this
week that second-quarter profit rose 14 percent, bolstered by
revenue from its cable-television and movie businesses. Last
quarter’s profit at CBS, also controlled by Redstone, more than
doubled as sales of reruns and fees from cable TV increased.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  