-- 
Wal-Mart Joins Amazon to Pitch State Law for Tax Benefit Plan

-- B y   A l i s o n   F i t z g e r a l d
-- 
2011-08-05T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/wal-mart-joins-amazon-to-pitch-state-law-for-tax-benefit-plan.html
In a windowless hotel ballroom, Utah
State Senator Wayne Niederhauser presented his idea for a
streamlined  state sales tax  to a task force subcommittee of the
American Legislative Exchange Council.  The proposal would allow several states to impose the same
 sales tax  rate on both brick-and-mortar retailers and online
outlets. Seated around the table were representatives from Wal-
Mart Stores Inc. and Amazon.com, along with other state
legislators from  Oregon  and  New Hampshire , which have no sales
tax.  “The group was pretty polarized,” said Niederhauser, a
Republican. People argued back and forth for about 15 minutes in
what he called an “animated debate” before the idea was tabled.   ALEC  is a Washington-based non-profit group that brings
state legislators, corporate lobbyists and policy experts
together to write model state laws. Niederhauser was one of more
than a thousand state lawmakers who traveled to  New Orleans  on
Aug. 3 to attend the group’s 38th annual meeting.  This week’s conference included workshops on health care,
energy and states’ rights. To sit on a legislation-writing task
force, Wal-Mart and Amazon would have had to pay a fee between
$3,000 and $10,000, in addition to their membership dues which
range from $7,000 to $25,000, according to ALEC’s website.  ALEC Critics  ALEC has become a target for some activist groups who
contend that corporations, which finance most of ALEC’s
operations and reimburse the travel costs for some elected
officials who attend the meetings, shouldn’t have a seat at the
table when lawmakers are writing bills.  “Legislators are voting behind closed doors alongside
corporations to change our rights,” said Lisa Graves, executive
director of the  Center for Media and Democracy , a Washington-
based group that tracks news sources, who traveled to New
Orleans to provide a counterpoint to ALEC’s messages.  Niederhauser, whose home is in Sandy,  Utah , said the
criticism is overblown. “I get lobbied much harder in my own
state,” he said. He and other elected officials attending this
week’s gathering said they come to ALEC meetings to network with
colleagues from other states.  Corporations are “definitely here, but I’ve not been
lobbied at all,” said Kansas Representative Mike Burgess, a
Republican who has served in the state legislature for nine
years. “I’ve not been subjected to any arm twisting.”  Wal-Mart and BP  Companies definitely were there. Officials from Wal-Mart,
oil giant  BP Plc (BP/) , and drug-maker Allergan Inc. were among the
hundreds of private sector members at the New Orleans meeting.
Three boards more than six-feet tall listed the event sponsors,
which included United Healthcare Inc., cigarette-maker Altria
and pharmaceutical-maker Johnson & Johnson.  When Louisiana Governor  Bobby Jindal , a Republican, spoke
at the opening day luncheon, the logo for PhRMA, the lobbying
arm of the pharmaceutical industry, was displayed on a screen
behind him. Shell Oil Co.’s yellow shell logo hovered over the
head of economist Arthur Laffer when he spoke at a breakfast.  Corporate sponsors of organizations’ annual meetings aren’t
unusual. It is ALEC’s task forces that are coming under most
scrutiny.  The committees meet in sessions closed to reporters and the
general public, during which they debate and vote on model bills.
Legislators and private-sector task force members must vote to
endorse any model legislation -- and each group must deliver a
majority before it is officially adopted, said Raegan Weber,
ALEC’s spokeswoman.  Elected Officials  Adoption doesn’t mean it will automatically be considered
for passage. It’s up to the elected officials to bring the
proposed bills to the state Capitol and usher them into law.
Burgess of  Kansas  says he has gotten ideas at ALEC but has never
brought a model bill home.  Representative Tim Brown, an emergency room physician who
serves in the Indiana legislature, says last year he introduced
a bill that would prevent Governor  Mitch Daniels , a fellow
Republican, from preparing to implement President  Barack Obama ’s
health-care law until a challenge to its constitutionality is
settled. The bill died in the Senate.  To join ALEC, legislators pay $100 for a two-year
membership. ALEC has task forces devoted to civil justice,
energy and environment, commerce, education, international
relations, public safety, taxes and telecommunications.  ‘ALEC Exposed”  The Center for Media and Democracy created a website last
month called  ALEC Exposed  where it posted about 800 model bills
from ALEC’s library that previously were available only to
members. The bills include measures that have passed in dozens
of states, including laws requiring voter identification;
measures requiring states to pull out of cap-and-trade programs,
which are designed to curb  carbon emissions ; and bills that
prohibit states from implementing the national health-care law.  Common Cause , a Washington-based group that advocates for
limits on money in politics, said companies affiliated with ALEC,
along with their employees, spent more than $38 million electing
state legislators and governors in 2009 and 2010.  The non-profit investigative reporting group  ProPublica  on
Aug. 1 published on its website a guide for reporters to trace
ALEC bills to their states.  The exposure doesn’t appear to have hurt. More than 2,000
people signed up for the conference this week, about a 25
percent increase from last year’s meeting, said Weber. The group
has also attracted many more corporate sponsors, according to
its program.  ALEC’s mission is to promote free markets, limited
government, federalism and individual freedom, according to its
website. Legislators at the meeting said they joined because it
represents their beliefs.  As for the corporate members, Brown said, “I’ll take their
money but I’m going to vote the way I want.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Fitzgerald in Washington at 
 afitzgerald2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  