-- 
Wall Street Triathletes Run, Bike, Swim for Charity in NYC Race

-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 
2011-08-06T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/wall-street-triathletes-run-bike-swim-for-robin-hood-in-nyc-competition.html
For years, Morgan Keegan & Co. Inc.
trader Charles Macintosh tortured his body in triathlons,
searching for victory and personal fulfillment.  On Sunday, the mortgage-backed securities trader will do it
for sport and to raise money for the  Robin Hood Foundation ’s
Endurance Team at the  Nautica New York City Triathlon . His goal
is to raise $10,000, which includes $2,500 of his own money and
the rest coming from friends and supporters.  “The triathlon fulfills a combination of my interests,”
Macintosh, 33, a veteran of more than 100 triathlons around the
world, said in a phone interview. “It allows me to do what I
love athletically, and the other is to make a charitable
contribution. So it was an easy decision to do this.”  Robin Hood and other charities are turning to young Wall
Street executives who do banking or trading by day and train for
triathlons at sunrise or sunset to help them raise money. Last
fall, the New York-based poverty-fighting nonprofit launched a
team and has signed up 20 triathletes who will raise at least
$240,000 for it this year.  “We’re trying to fight poverty in  New York City , and we
rely on private individuals,” Leslie Rioux, a senior
development officer at Robin Hood, said by phone. “This
broadens our base of people who ordinarily don’t give to Robin
Hood.”  Fast-Growing Sport  The triathlon, a three-in-one endurance test which began in
 Southern California  in the 1970s, is one of the fastest-growing
sports in the U.S. The USA Triathlon organization’s membership
has grown to 135,000 today, compared with about 1,500 in 1982.  Finance executives regularly introduce the sport to their
peers, who then get nudged or recruited by charities for
fundraisers. Macintosh started competing in triathlons while
serving on the crew and hockey teams at  Vermont ’s Middlebury
College. He encouraged his friend, Merrill Lynch & Co. mortgage
trader Timothy Fallon, to become a triathlete. Fallon will
compete Sunday to raise money for the Norwalk, Connecticut-based
Multiple Myeloma Research Foundation.  “The triathlon is a great stress outlet, and you meet a
lot of the same kind of people” said Fallon, 35. “It’s like
golf for this generation.”  Triathlon’s Route  The grueling  event  begins Sunday morning at about 6 a.m.
with a 1,500 meter swim in the  Hudson River  near W. 98th Street
on  Manhattan ’s Upper West Side. That’s followed by a 40
kilometer bike race that will take competitors into the Bronx
and then back into Manhattan. Then comes a 10 kilometer run,
which begins in Riverside Park at 72nd Street and goes around
the northern loop of Central Park.  Fallon said he rises early to swim before heading into his
Manhattan office and runs in the evening after going home.  “If I have my daughter, I’ll take her out in a stroller
and run while pushing her,” said Fallon, a single parent. “I
also have a spinning (stationary) bike in my apartment. It
pushes you to the limit.”  Macintosh, who said he would like to win Sunday’s race in
his age category, said he works out about 10 hours a week with
an Iron Man coach and a trainer at the  Equinox  fitness center he
belongs to in Manhattan.  “When I started triathlons, I could barely swim across a
pool,” Macintosh said. “The next thing you know, you’re waking
up at 5 a.m. to train. What motivates me I guess is that I want
to see what I’m made of.”  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in  New York  at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 