-- 
Wealth Advisers Putting Clients in Big-Caps After Market Rout

-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s   a n d   R y a n   M a c
-- 
2011-08-05T19:39:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/wealth-advisers-putting-clients-in-big-caps-after-market-rout.html
Wealthy investors should use
yesterday’s market rout to buy some of the biggest, most well-
known U.S. companies, which are undervalued after getting
dragged down with the broader market, said Darrell Cronk, an
investment officer for  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)   Cronk, whose clients’ average net worth ranges from $5
million to $10 million, said he started increasing allocations
to large-cap equities about a week ago. The biggest U.S.
companies, as measured by the Standard & Poor’s 100 Index, are
down about 4.6 percent this year, compared with a decline of 8.8
percent for small U.S. stocks in the  Russell 2000 Index. (RTY)   “People have that fear of losing money again, but there
are fundamental reasons why we think this could be a good time
to look at opportunities for clients’ portfolios,” said Cronk,
regional chief investment officer in the  New York  office of
Wells Fargo Private Bank, which manages $180 billion in assets.
“Corporate fundamentals are strong and economic fundamentals
are very weak, so that means opportunity.”  Stocks in the S&P 100 had an average price-to-earnings
ratio of 12.3 compared with 33.2 for the  Russell 2000 .  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) , the world’s biggest software maker, had a ratio of 9.77,
while for Johnson & Johnson, the world’s second-largest maker of
health care products, it’s 12.93. Price-to-earnings ratios
compare the equity’s price with the company’s earnings per
share. A low ratio may indicate a stock is undervalued.  ‘Buy Into Weakness’  The benchmark  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  dropped 4.8 percent yesterday
to an eight-month low of 1,200.07 during a global rout. About
$1.8 trillion has been erased from the value of American
equities as reports on manufacturing and consumer spending
showed the world’s largest economy is slowing. Chief strategists
at 13 banks from Barclays Plc to UBS AG see the benchmark
measure of American equity surging 17 percent through Dec. 31,
the average estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  “Our mantra is to sell into strength and buy into
weakness,” said Tom Orecchio, a fee-only adviser at Modera
Wealth Management LLC, which has more than $1 billion in assets
under management. “It means buying into the thing they’re
worried about.”  Orecchio, who is based in Westwood,  New Jersey , has clients
with an average net worth of about $4 million. He said he
received one call yesterday morning and by the afternoon had
heard from about 12 clients. One of his recommendations may be
to put more money into large-cap stocks since allocations to
them have fallen as the result of the stock market decline.  Dividend-Paying Stocks  Domestic stock funds lost $8.76 billion to redemptions in
the week ended July 27, according to estimates from the
Washington-based  Investment Company Institute .  “Markets at the moment are dangerous and there’s a prudent
reason for caution, but making heroic decisions either to go to
cash or all in, may not be the most appropriate solution,” said
Mark Luschini, chief investment strategist for Philadelphia-
based Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, which manages about $54
billion.  Investors should be selective buyers and focus on high-
quality companies that pay dividends, such as  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) 
and Microsoft, Luschini said. Johnson & Johnson returned 1.8
percent with dividends reinvested this year through yesterday’s
close, while Microsoft has decreased about 6 percent.  The decline in the equity markets is “unnerving” for
investors who are still licking their wounds from 2008, so their
instincts are to go to cash or raise cash in their portfolios,
said Luschini. Today’s jobs numbers, which showed that the
 unemployment rate  dropped to 9.1 percent and average hourly
earnings climbed 0.4 percent, may make it easier to convince
clients that they should buy certain stocks, he said.  Diversification  Paul Jacobs, a certified financial planner based in the
Atlanta office of Palisades Hudson Financial Group, which
manages more than $1 billion and whose clients have an average
of about $20 million in assets, said he’s looking at stocks of
natural resource and real estate companies because they act as
hedges against inflation.  “During days like today, diversification can be helpful,
not just to be a cushion from the blow of the stock market, but
to have dry powder, money you can liquidate and use to buy
low,” Jacobs said yesterday.  Clients have been calling and asking whether they should be
selling and putting all of their money in the  bond market ,
according to Todd Morgan, senior managing director at Los
Angeles-based Bel Air Investment Advisors, which oversees about
$6 billion.  “My answer to that is no,” they should be looking to add
more world-class multinational equities, like  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) 
and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , Morgan said.  Value-Driven Investors  If the  S&P 500  reaches 1,125 or 1,150, Morgan will take
cash and buy more of those stocks, as well as those that pay
dividends such as  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , the world’s largest
consumer-products company, he said.  “These kind of crises create squeeze points,” said
Jonathan Krasney, who manages about $300 million at Krasney
Financial LLC in Mendham, New Jersey. “People that are
emotional lose their heads and get flushed down the market.
People that are more value driven look for more ways to
profit.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexis Leondis in New York 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net ;
Ryan Mac in New York at 
 rmac3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at 
 rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 