-- 
Wells Fargo Reaches $590 Million Settlement in Principle in Wachovia Suit

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-08-05T17:25:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/wells-fargo-reaches-590-million-settlement-in-principle-in-wachovia-suit.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the biggest U.S.
home lender, said it reached a $590 million settlement in
principle with plaintiffs who claimed in a lawsuit that Wachovia
Corp. misled investors.  The accord, subject to court approval, is reflected in the
bank’s financial statements and “will not have a material
adverse effect on Wells Fargo’s consolidated financial
position,” according to a regulatory filing today by the San
Francisco-based company. Wells Fargo acquired Wachovia in 2008.  Investors had accused Wachovia of making misleading
disclosures relating to the sale of securities between 2006 and
2008, according to the complaint. The statements related to the
quality of assets linked to the mortgage portfolio of Golden
West Financial, a  California  home lender it had acquired.  “Wells Fargo agreed to this settlement in order to avoid
the distraction, risk and expense of on-going litigation,”  Mary Eshet , a spokeswoman for the bank, said in an e-mailed
statement. “The settlement agreement does not constitute an
admission of Wells Fargo of liability or any violation of law by
Wachovia.”  Accounting firm KPMG LLP, which did auditing work for
Wachovia and was also listed as a defendant, reached a $37
million settlement, according to a statement today from law
firms representing the plaintiffs. “We’ve agreed to settle to
avoid the cost of litigation and to put this matter behind us,”
George Ledwith, a KPMG spokesman, said in a phone interview.  ‘Outstanding Result’  Wachovia, in marketing 30 separate bond and preferred
security sales totaling more than $35 billion, referred to the
“pristine” quality and conservative underwriting of its Pick-
A-Pay portfolio, and the adequacy of loss reserves and capital,
which ultimately proved untrue, according to the complaint.
Pick-A-Pay loans, or option-ARMs, let homeowners defer some
payments on adjustable-rate home loans and add them to the
principal.  “We believe that these settlements reflect an outstanding
result for bond and preferred-security purchasers who were
damaged as a result of false and misleading offering
materials,” the attorneys representing investors wrote in their
joint statement.  Wells Fargo purchased Wachovia for $12.7 billion in 2008,
after surging mortgage defaults brought the  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based lender to the verge of collapse. Wells Fargo
picked up $117.3 billion in Pick-a-Pay loans as part of the
deal. More than half of those were found to be credit-impaired,
according to the complaint.  Possible Losses  The plaintiffs include the Southeastern Pennsylvania
Transportation Authority, which manages public transport in
Philadelphia and surrounding counties, the Orange County
Employees Retirement System in California and the  Louisiana 
Sheriffs’ Pension and Relief Fund, a  pension plan  for sheriffs
and their families in Louisiana.  Wells Fargo also said in today’s filing that it may record
losses of $1.8 billion more than its current representations and
warranty reserve of $1.2 billion. Losses are dependent upon the
economy and “investor demand strategies,” among other factors,
the bank said in the filing.  “Because of the uncertainty in the various estimates
underlying the mortgage repurchase liability, there is a range
of losses in excess of the recorded mortgage repurchase
liability that are reasonably possible,” the bank said.  The lender also said that the high end of estimated
litigation losses could be $1.6 billion beyond the reserve
already set aside, down from $1.7 billion in the first quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 