-- 
Western Leaders Seek to Contain European Debt Crisis, Turmoil in Markets

-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 
2011-08-06T13:12:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/western-leaders-seek-to-contain-european-debt-crisis-turmoil-in-markets.html
Western leaders huddled on preventing
the debt crisis from spreading to the core of the euro area
after the biggest weekly decline in global stocks since 2008.  President  Barack Obama  and British Prime Minister  David Cameron  joined telephone consultations with euro-area
counterparts yesterday as investors signaled concern a July 21
agreement to expand the 440 billion-euro ($628 billion) rescue
fund would fail to stop the rot.  After a series of calls involving German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , French President  Nicolas Sarkozy , Spanish Prime Minister
Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero and Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi , European leaders pledged to push implementation of
last month’s deal on the  European Financial Stability Facility .
Berlusconi announced measures to speed austerity and target a
balanced budget in 2013, a year ahead of schedule.  “The July 21 plan is a good plan, it’s an excellent plan,
and investors have to hear it,” French Finance Minister
 Francois Baroin  said on France Info radio. “We need rapid and
operational decision making, and there are improvements that can
be done in European economic governance. That’s what President
Sarkozy and  Chancellor Merkel  are working together to do.”  Those conversations took place before  Standard & Poor’s 
downgraded the U.S.’s AAA credit rating for the first time,
lowering the grade one level to AA+ and criticizing the nation’s
political process. Baroin today expressed confidence in America
after the downgrade, saying U.S. officials were tackling the
debt. He said G-7 finance ministers continue to be in contact.  Fishing, Walking  While Zapatero and Berlusconi worked from their capitals
yesterday, Sarkozy placed his calls from his wife’s holiday home
in the south of  France , Merkel spoke during a walking holiday in
the Italian Alps, and Cameron worked from a rented Tuscan villa.
Baroin returned to Paris from fishing in central France.  Merkel spoke to Obama after talks among the Europeans,
while Sarkozy and Berlusconi said they were due to speak to him.
Merkel alone spoke to Cameron, according to statements from the
leaders. Zapatero spoke to Berlusconi and Sarkozy.  Group of Seven officials will discuss how to coordinate
action among their central banks after this week’s stock market
rout and the U.S. debt downgrade, Associated Press said, citing
an unidentified person familiar with the matter. The level and
timing of the talks has not yet been decided, AP said.  While Berlusconi told reporters he and Sarkozy agreed to
such a gathering, a spokesman, Paolo Bonaiuti, subsequently said
that no decision has been made.  Stock Market Slide  World stock markets have lost more than $4.4 trillion since
July 26 as speculation mounts that the global economy faces a
new recession that would deepen  Europe ’s debt woes. The Stoxx
Europe 600 Index fell 9.9 percent this week, and the MSCI World
Index slumped 8.5 percent. For both, it was the worst week since
November 2008.  While yields on Italian and Spanish debt fell yesterday,
they have surged since the July 21 summit aimed at heading off
debt contagion to the euro zone’s third and fourth largest
economies. Italian 10-year bond yields are up 76 basis points
since the summit, while Spanish yields are up 33 basis points.  The difference between the yield on 10-year Italian bonds
and similar German securities hit 389 basis points yesterday, a
record since the adoption of the single currency. The spread
ended the trading day at 374 basis points.  Spanish Yields  Ten-year Spanish yields dropped 24 basis points to 6.04
percent and fell 11 basis points to 6.09 percent in  Italy .
Spanish borrowing costs are below those of Italy for the first
time since May 2010 on speculation Italy’s higher debt load
makes it less able to withstand contagion from the region’s
fiscal crisis.  “If this is enough to calm markets depends on whether the
market believes it or not, but today’s decisions by the Italian
government are certainly a step in the right direction,”  Chiara Corsa , an economist at UniCredit Research in Milan, said in a
note to clients. “There are no doubts that the government
pledged to deliver what has been called for.”  European Union Economic and Monetary Commissioner  Olli Rehn , in a Bloomberg Television interview in Brussels, called
for country-by-country approval of the upgraded bailout
mechanism by early September.  Policy makers, who have been fighting the debt crisis since
its outbreak in  Greece  in late 2009, need to be “more
disciplined” in communicating with markets, Rehn said, adding
that European leaders were surprised by the bond selloff in the
wake of the summit.  European governments agreed to empower the rescue fund to
buy bonds in the secondary market, offer precautionary credit
lines and lend to recapitalize banks.  The euro was up 1.4 percent at $1.4282 per euro yesterday
in  New York .  The  European Central Bank  renewed its bond-purchase program
yesterday following a four-month hiatus and didn’t extend the
purchases to Italy and Spain after opposition from  Germany .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  