-- 
William Hill First-Half Profit Rises, Led by Online Sports

-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 
2011-08-05T16:09:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/william-hill-first-half-profit-rises-led-by-online-sports.html
William Hill Plc (WMH) , a U.K. bookmaker
with about 2,350 outlets, said first-half profit climbed 34
percent, led by gains in online sports betting.  Net income rose to 86.2 million pounds ($140 million) in
the 26 weeks ended June 28, from 64.5 million pounds a year
earlier, the London-based company said in a Regulatory News
Service statement today. Operating profit of 147.7 million
pounds beat the average estimate of 141.6 million pounds by 18
analysts, the company said.  William Hill is growing faster than rival  Ladbrokes Plc (LAD) ,
both online and in betting shops, and it added net revenue even
though last year’s period included the soccer  World Cup .
Ladbrokes posted yesterday a 5.8 percent decline in operating
profit excluding high rollers and finance costs.  “We’ve proven ourselves more successful than most in this
market, with our focus on what’s right for the punter,” Chief
Executive Officer Ralph Topping said in a conference call with
reporters. The company gained market share in the U.K., he said,
without giving details.  It’s seeking acquisitions abroad, in regulated markets, and
is in “lots of discussions with lots of people,” Topping said.  “While the U.K. remains our core market, it’s simply not
big enough,” he told reporters.  William Hill this year agreed to buy three Nevada sports-
betting companies as it positions itself for possible
legalization elsewhere in the U.S.  William Hill rose 3.5 pence, or 1.6 percent, to 221.5 pence
at the 4:30 p.m. close in  London . The shares have gained 30
percent so far this year, giving it a market value of 1.55
billion pounds.  Online sports revenue gained 41 percent in the half, with
betting during play almost doubling, the company said. Bingo
gained 25 percent, casino rose 14 percent, and poker 11 percent.  Topping said William Hill has been “resilient” since the
start of the financial crisis and doesn’t see significant
changes in U.K. consumer attitudes.  “I think they’re being very careful with grocery shopping,
but people will always look to their pleasure,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in London at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 Ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  