-- 
TMX Group Quarterly Profit Fell on Costs of Failed Takeover

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 
2011-08-05T20:29:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/tmx-group-second-quarter-profit-fell-on-costs-of-failed-takeover.html
TMX Group Inc. (X) , the Toronto Stock
Exchange owner that’s mulling a takeover offer from Canadian
banks and pensions, said second-quarter profit fell because of
costs from its failed deal with  London Stock Exchange Group Plc. (LSE)   Net income attributable to TMX shareholders was C$54.7
million ($55.7 million), or 73 cents a share, down 6 percent
from C$58.4 million, or 79 cents, a year earlier, Toronto-based
TMX said today in a statement. Adjusted profit of 94 cents a
share topped the 90 cent-a-share average estimate of three
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  TMX earnings were pared by C$20.8 million in expenses
related to its proposed takeover by LSE after the exchange
owners failed to consummate a C$3.45 billion combination. TMX
and LSE ended plans to combine on June 29 after failing to get
enough shareholder support for the transaction, leaving a group
of 13 Canadian financial firms behind Maple Group Acquisition
Corp. as the sole suitor for the Canadian exchange.  TMX shares fell 13 cents, or 0.3 percent, to C$42.99 at 4
p.m. in trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange. The stock has
risen 51 percent in the past 12 months.  Revenue rose 8.5 percent to C$169.3 million in the second
quarter, beating the average analyst estimate of C$166.3
million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue from
reported listing fees rose 17 percent to C$63 million, while
trading and related fees increased 7 percent to C$62.6 million,
according to today’s statement.  Less Market Share  TMX’s market share slipped in the second quarter as
alternative trading systems gained ground, according to the
 Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada . TMX’s
equity exchanges had about 65 percent of the Canadian market
based on the number of shares traded in the period ended June
30, down from about 69 percent in the first quarter.  The number of shares changing hands on the Toronto Stock
Exchange and  TSX Venture Exchange  was almost unchanged at 41
billion in the period, according to TMX statistics.  The number of derivatives and options contracts trading on
the Montreal Exchange rose to a record 16.3 million in the
three-month period, up 36 percent from a year earlier, according
to company statistics.  TMX’s board authorized management and advisers to hold
discussions with Maple on its unsolicited C$3.73 billion offer,
the company said July 21. Maple’s cash-and-stock bid to buy at
least 70 percent of TMX shares expires Sept. 30, following an
extension from Aug. 8 yesterday.  Maple plans to buy Alpha Group, an alternative trading
platform that competes with TMX, and Canadian securities
clearing house CDS Inc., to integrate into TMX if its takeover
succeeds. The plan requires approvals from provincial
regulators, including those in Quebec and Ontario, as well as
 Canada ’s Competition Bureau.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  