-- 
Zambia May Delay $500 Million Eurobond Sale for Election, Fundanga Says

-- B y   A n t h o n y   M u k w i t a
-- 
2011-08-05T15:40:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/zambia-may-delay-500-million-eurobond-sale-for-election-fundanga-says.html
Zambia,  Africa ’s biggest copper
producer, will probably delay the sale of its planned $500
million Eurobond until after elections in September, central
bank Governor Caleb Fundanga said.  The debt “can only be handled when there is a Cabinet in
place,” Fundanga said in a telephone interview from Lusaka, the
capital, today. “The matter has to be put on hold. It requires
a Cabinet process to move it forward.”  Zambia is looking to raise funds to build new transport
links and generate and transmit more electricity to the copper
mines that drive the economy. The Eurobond was to be sold by the
end this month, according to Situmbeko Musokotwane, who was
finance minister before the Cabinet was dissolved last week
ahead of the Sept. 20 vote.  On March 22,  Standard & Poor’s  assigned the southern
African nation a B+ credit rating, its fourth-highest junk
grade, with a “stable” outlook. Zambia’s assessment is the
same as that for Kenya, Nigeria and  Paraguay . Fitch Ratings
assigned it B+, also four steps below investment grade, on March
2.  Zambia’s economy remains “robust,” with mining and
agriculture showing expansion, and is unlikely to be disrupted
by the election, Fundanga said. He warned there may be a
“slight delay” in the 2012 budget presentation that was
scheduled for October.  President Rupiah Banda, the 74-year-old leader of the
Movement for Multiparty Democracy, will run for a second term
next month against Michael Sata, head of the Patriotic Front,
the largest opposition party. Sata narrowly lost in the previous
ballot in 2008, winning 38.1 percent of the vote to Banda’s 40.1
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony Mukwita in Lusaka via Johannesburg at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  