-- 
Zapatero Says Spanish Borrowing Cost Increase Was Likely in Bond Auction

-- B y   S h a r o n   S m y t h
-- 
2011-08-05T06:51:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-05/zapatero-says-spanish-borrowing-cost-increase-was-likely-in-bond-auction.html
(Corrects translation of Zapatero’s comment in first and
second paragraphs.)  Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero said it was “foreseeable” that  Spain ’s borrowing
costs would increase after financial-market turmoil persisted as
it sold bonds yesterday at higher  interest rates .  Zapatero “has followed the auction and believes it is
positive that demand outstripped supply, whilst at the same time
he considers the increase in borrowing costs as foreseeable,”
the Madrid-based government said in a statement on its website
late yesterday. Spain earlier sold 3.31 billion euros ($4.7
billion) of bonds.  The Spanish government has toughened austerity measures as
investors grow increasingly concerned that the region’s 21-month
fiscal crisis may spread to larger nations. European Central
Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  yesterday announced a
resumption of bond purchases as officials struggle to put a
firewall around Italy and Spain, whose yields soared to euro-era
highs this week.  The Spanish premier “also followed the speech made by the
president of the  European Central Bank , Jean-Claude Trichet, as
well as the evolution of European stock markets and yields,”
the statement said.  Spain’s Treasury sold 2.2 billion euros of April 2014 bonds
at an average yield of 4.813 percent, compared with 4.291
percent when it sold similar debt on July 7. It also auctioned
1.1 billion euros of January 2015 bonds to yield 4.984 percent.
The Madrid-based Treasury sold about 95 percent of the maximum
3.5 billion euros targeted in the debt offer.  Bond Yields  Italian and Spanish 10-year bonds declined yesterday,
pushing the yields as high as 6.23 percent and 6.33 percent
respectively. Irish and Portuguese bonds rose as people with
knowledge of today’s transactions said the ECB bought those
securities after being absent from the market for 18 weeks.  European leaders last month agreed on a second bailout
package for  Greece  that includes voluntary contributions from
private-sector bondholders and widens the scope of the European
rescue fund. Governments must still ratify the plan, which would
empower the European Financial Stability Facility to start
buying debt on the secondary market.  Zapatero said it’s “essential” that agreements on the
Greek package and the “support mechanisms” to euro-region
countries “are applied as soon as possible,” according to the
statement.  “The prime minister has asked his economic advisers to
maintain contact with their European counterparts,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Smyth in Madrid at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  