-- 
Hong Kong Exchanges in Talks for Venture With Shanghai, Shenzhen Bourses

-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 
2011-08-18T10:06:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/h-k-exchange-in-talks-with-shanghai-shenzhen.html
Hong Kong  Exchanges & Clearing Ltd.,
the most valuable exchange company, said it’s in venture talks
with China’s two stock exchanges a day after Vice Premier  Li Keqiang  unveiled plans to boost cross-border investment.  The company is discussing the development of new indexes
and other derivative products with the Shanghai and Shenzhen
bourses, Hong Kong Exchanges said in a statement today. The
venture may be based in the former British colony, it said.  China will start an exchange-traded fund linked to Hong
Kong equities and boost quotas from qualified companies to
invest in its own share market, Li, the front-runner to replace
 Wen Jiabao  as China’s premier in 2013, said on a visit to Hong
Kong yesterday. Shares of the Hong Kong Exchanges rose as much
as 7 percent today.  “The derivative market in  China  is still at its infancy
stage and can certainly leverage Hong Kong Exchanges’ expertise
and Hong Kong Exchanges needs new sources of growth,” said
Victoria Mio, a Hong Kong-based fund manager at Robeco Hong Kong
Ltd., whose parent oversees $200 billion in assets globally.  The bourse’s Chief Executive Officer Charles Li is forging
closer ties with the mainland and hopes to attract the country’s
investors. The exchange hosted the first yuan-denominated
initial public offering outside of China this year and is
preparing for dual-currency listings to take advantage of
Beijing’s plans for financial liberalization and its promotion
of the yuan in global trade and investment.  ‘Right Direction’  “This is going in the right direction for both China and
Hong Kong -- for China to open itself, and also for Hong Kong to
get more business and money flow from mainland investors,” said
 Alex Au , managing director of Richland Capital Management Ltd.
in Hong Kong. If China’s government believes the ETF product is
“successful and within their control, they can roll out this
product into broader areas, and eventually to other countries’
stocks as well,” he said.  No binding agreement has been reached, the Hong Kong bourse
said. Shanghai Stock Exchange spokesman Chen Ji declined to
comment. Officials at Shenzhen Stock Exchange couldn’t
immediately be reached for comment.  Hong Kong Exchanges shares advanced 3.6 percent to
HK$147.60 at the close, the biggest gain since April 4. The
stock lost 16 percent this year.  “Hong Kong Exchanges doesn’t have further details now as
the discussion has just begun,” said Scott Sapp, a company
spokesman.  The China bourses together make up the second-largest
equity market in terms of market capitalization, while Hong Kong
ranks fifth, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Qualified Investors  China’s government places quotas on foreign ownership of
equities listed in the country and also on the amount domestic
fund managers are allowed to invest offshore. The allowances are
only available to qualified institutional investors.  The country is working on a program to let financial
companies in Hong Kong offer yuan funds that will invest in
mainland stocks, Wang Lin, director-general of the department of
fund supervision at the China Securities Regulatory Commission
said in May.  “I suspect that the announcement ties in with the measures
announced by Vice Premier Li yesterday about the launch of the
ETF linked to Hong Kong stocks,” said Alexander Lee, an analyst
at DBS Vickers Hong Kong Ltd., who has a “hold” rating on the
Hong Kong Exchanges. “For such an arrangement to work, the two
parties need to come together. I don’t foresee any issues on
both fronts and on the regulatory side as all parties want to
push in the same direction.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  