-- 
Maersk Drilling Puts Oil Rig Fleet Expansion on Hold as Build Costs Soar

-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 
2011-08-19T10:55:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/maersk-drilling-puts-rig-expansion-on-hold-as-build-costs-soar.html
Maersk Drilling, the oil rig unit of
 Denmark ’s largest company, may put its expansion on hold because
the cost of building platforms is rising and takeovers are too
expensive.  “We see newbuilding orders being at a fairly high price
and we will certainly not go out and order something tomorrow or
in the near future,” Chief Executive Officer Claus V. Hemmingsen said yesterday in a telephone interview. “We would
have to watch the market, they’re very expensive currently.”  Maersk Drilling, which has about 3 percent of the offshore
market, has a five-year target to become the world’s fifth-
largest owner of rigs able to drill the deepest offshore wells.
It’s spending $3.8 billion to build four deepwater drillships
and two so-called ultra-harsh jack-up rigs, and plans to order
at least eight rigs by 2016, Hemmingsen said. Maersk has also
kept an eye out for acquisition opportunities.  “I would say that while valuations may have been low, the
end purchase prices are not particularly low,” the executive
said. “We have been following the markets and we have not found
that it was the right thing for us to pursue” corporate
acquisitions at this time, he said.  Rising oil prices have increased exploration budgets and
added demand for rigs able to operate in harsh and deepwater
environments such as the Arctic and  Brazil . Stricter rules after
the Deepwater Horizon rig exploded and sank in the U.S.  Gulf of
Mexico  have also increased demand for more modern rigs, boosting
costs for new rigs and fueling merger and acquisitions.  Transocean Deal  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  this week agreed to buy Aker Drilling ASA
for almost twice its market value at $1.46 billion, to expand
its ultra-deepwater rig fleet. That followed Ensco Plc’s bid in
February for Pride International Inc., which was valued at $8.47
billion including debt, a 24 percent premium.  “We are very firm, that as we do look at candidates or
even assets, it would have to be something that fits our high-
end sophisticated fleet,” Hemmingsen said. “It’s not important
for us to gain size, it’s important to get the right equipment.
Our primary view is that we will grow organically.”  Maersk Drilling, a unit of Copenhagen-based A.P. Moeller-
Maersk A/S, has brought the average age of its fleet down to
eight years, the world’s second-lowest after  Seadrill Ltd. (SDRL)  That
compares to an industry average of 22 years, Hemmingsen said.  Four Drillships  The company ordered the four drillships from Samsung Heavy
Industries Co. Ltd. and two ultra-harsh environment jack-ups
from Keppel FELS Ltd. and has the option to order two more
drillships with Samsung at the same price as the first four,
Hemmingsen said. Maersk expects to order its next eight rigs in
the ultra-deepwater, semi-submersible and drillship segments
once the market conditions permit, Hemmingsen said.  Prices to build new rigs “have been fairly stable over the
last four years, but with a tendency to rise over the last six
months,” Hemmingsen said. “They’ve probably risen 10 to 12
percent in the last six months.”  The unit’s second-quarter profit surged to $223 million
from $175 million a year earlier helped by an 18 percent gain in
sales as high  oil prices  spurred demand for modern rigs, Maersk
said on Aug. 17.  Financing future newbuild rigs will be done from “general
corporate financing sources available to A.P. Moeller-Maersk
Group and/or operational cash flow,” spokeswoman Birgitte Gam
said in an e-mailed response to questions yesterday.  Maersk Drilling’s 26 rigs include 6 ultra-harsh environment
jack-ups, 6 further jack-ups, 4 semi-submersibles and 10
drilling barge rigs. Jack-up rigs have extendable legs while
semi-subs are rigs that float and are partly filled with water
for stability.  ‘Full Coverage’  The company has “almost full contract coverage” for the
remainder of the year, according to its second-quarter
statement, and has over 70 percent of its available capacity
covered for 2012, Hemmingsen said.  Demand for rigs remain high and is expected to be boosted
in  Norway , where Maersk is the biggest operator of jack-ups, by
 Statoil ASA (STL) ’s announcement this week that the Aldous Major South
and Avaldsnes discoveries in the  North Sea  are linked, creating
the biggest offshore oil find this year. The “giant” discovery
may help prolong Norway’s oil output, which has declined for 10
consecutive years.  “It’s great news for the industry,” Hemmingsen said. “We
do expect that it will lead to increased activity and also
increased activity in the segment that we are targeting, which
is the jack-up segment up to 150 meters of water depth.”  Demand from regions such as Norway, Brazil, West Africa and
the Gulf of  Mexico  are supporting day rates, both for ultra-
deepwater and for jack-up rigs.  For ultra-deepwater rigs, “we’ve had an average of about
$450,000 for a while, and we wouldn’t expect it to go below
that,” Hemmingsen said. “We’re not so optimistic that we see a
rapid increase, a dramatic increase either, but probably a
stable level of $450,000 to $550,000 would be expected going
forward in the short-term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marianne Stigset in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  