-- 
Thai GDP Growth Probably Accelerated

-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a   a n d   M i c h a e l   M u n o z
-- 
2011-08-19T03:42:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/thai-gdp-growth-probably-accelerated.html
Thailand ’s economic growth probably
accelerated last quarter as domestic spending countered weaker
global expansion, bolstering the case for further interest-rate
increases to damp price pressures.  Gross domestic product rose 3.6 percent in the three months
through June from a year earlier, up from a 3 percent pace in
the first quarter, according to the median of 13 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey. The data are due on Aug. 22 at 9:30 a.m.
local time.  Thai leader Yingluck Shinawatra plans to raise the minimum
wage and pay farmers about 50 percent more for rice, policies
that may further cushion growth while stoking inflation. The
Bank of Thailand, which has called for “harmony” between
fiscal and monetary policy, will raise rates for the seventh
straight meeting next week, according to nine of 10 economists
in another Bloomberg survey.  “While it’s fairly obvious that dark clouds continue to
hover on the external front, the Thai economy looks set to
remain relatively robust given the healthy growth of domestic
segments,” said Wellian Wiranto, an economist at HSBC Holdings
Plc in  Singapore . “The central bank remains hawkish and
continues to see that upside risks to inflation predominate over
downside risks to growth.”  Yingluck became Thailand’s first female prime minister
after her Pheu Thai party won the nation’s July 3 general
election. Stocks and the currency subsequently climbed as the
poll passed without protests in a country that has had nine
coups and more than 20 prime ministers since 1946.  Resilient Stocks, Currency  The benchmark SET Index of stocks is up 3.4 percent since
the vote, while the baht has climbed 3 percent against the
dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The equity market and currency have held on to gains even
as a global rout, sparked by concern that faltering U.S. and
European growth may weaken the world economy, wiped about $6
trillion off shares worldwide this month. The SET Index fell 1.2
percent as of 10:37 a.m. local time today, while the currency
was little changed.  Thailand would join neighboring  Indonesia  in reporting an
acceleration in GDP growth, weathering global risks that have
contributed to slowdowns in other Asian nations from Singapore
to  Taiwan .  The government doesn’t “want to look only at inflation”
in determining economic policies, Yingluck said this week. She
is due to announce them to parliament by Aug. 24. Pheu Thai has
pledged to lower corporate taxes, almost double the minimum wage
in some parts of the country, build rail lines and hand out free
tablet computers to students.  Price Pressures  Consumer-price growth held above 4 percent for the fourth
straight month in July as food and fuel prices climbed, while
 core inflation  accelerated to 2.59 percent, closer to the
central bank’s 3 percent ceiling.  The Bank of Thailand, which said in July that inflation
risks exceed threats to growth, meets Aug. 24 to set borrowing
costs. It has raised the key rate in eight quarter-point steps
to 3.25 percent last month from 1.25 percent at the start of
July 2010.  “Thai economic growth momentum will pick up speed in the
second half, buoyed by local consumption and investment,” said
Somprawin Manprasert, an economist at Bangkok-based Tisco
Securities Co. “The loosening fiscal policies also mean the
central bank will be more aggressive to anchor inflation
expectations.”  Thailand’s manufacturing output unexpectedly increased for
the first time in five months in June as supply disruptions
sparked by the Japan earthquake eased, boosting the automotive
industry. The central bank has said the interruptions will
moderate from this quarter and forecasts 4.1 percent economic
growth in 2011.  Thai consumer confidence rose to the highest level in more
than four years in July, buoyed by the government’s promise to
boost incomes. Companies such as  Charoen Pokphand Foods Pcl (CPF) 
expect sales in the second half to climb as the administration’s
policies boost purchasing power.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 Suttinee1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  