-- 
AIG’s Nan Shan Sale Gives CEO Benmosche Flexibility on Keeping AIA Stake

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-08-19T12:27:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/aig-s-nan-shan-sale-gives-ceo-benmosche-flexibility-on-keeping-aia-stake.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ’s
$2.16 billion sale of a Taiwan unit may increase Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Benmosche ’s flexibility as he weighs whether to
retain a stake in  AIA Group Ltd. (1299)  while repaying rescue funds.  Benmosche sold the Nan Shan life insurer to Ruen Chen
Investment Holding Co. as part of a plan to repay a government
bailout that swelled to $182.3 billion. The U.S. Treasury
Department said in a  statement  yesterday that it will receive
funds from the sale to help pay AIG’s obligations to a special
purpose vehicle that’s backed by AIA shares, plane-leasing unit
International Lease Finance Corp. and other assets.  AIG divested 67 percent of Hong Kong-based AIA last year in
an initial public offering that raised $20.5 billion. The
remaining interest added $1.52 billion to AIG’s second-quarter 
profit as the Asian insurer’s stock price surged. AIA has
climbed 19 percent this year and is the top gainer in the 73-
company Bloomberg World Insurance Index.  “It’s been a great investment, so they may want to hold
onto it,” said Paul Newsome, an analyst at Sandler O’Neill &
Partners LP. Using Nan Shan proceeds to repay the special
purpose vehicle gives AIG “more flexibility as to what to do
with ILFC and other assets, too. It adds in general to their
cash-flow flexibility.” He advises clients to buy AIG stock.  AIG has slumped 53 percent this year on the  New York  Stock
Exchange. That compares with the 9.3 percent slide in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Underwriter Agreement  The Treasury holds a $9.3 billion preferred interest in the
special purpose vehicle after receiving proceeds from the Nan
Shan sale, according to a statement yesterday from New York-
based AIG. Benmosche, 67, has said that he may delay or forego
selling AIA shares. AIG’s agreement with underwriters allows
Benmosche to begin lowering or hedging the stake in October.  “We’re looking potentially at monetizing other assets that
we have so that AIA might be sold much later on, if at all,”
Benmosche said on a conference call with analysts on May 6.  AIG may sell part of the ILFC plane-leasing unit in a
public offering, a person familiar with the plans said last
month. The sale could fetch $2 billion, said the person, who
declined to be identified because the discussions are private.  AIG had sought to keep a majority holding in AIA after its
2008 bailout. The plans were altered for the Hong Kong-based
division as the size of AIG’s rescue climbed. A subsequent plan
to sell the unit to Prudential Plc fell apart.  Greenberg’s Crown Jewel  AIA, the third-largest Asia-based life insurer by market
value, declared its first dividend and reported earnings that
beat estimates last month. Maurice “Hank” Greenberg, who built
AIG during his four-decade leadership of the firm until 2005,
called AIA one of his company’s “crown jewels.”  The deal to sell 97.57 percent of Nan Shan to Ruen Chen
received final approval from  Taiwan ’s financial regulators in
July. A previous plan was tabled last year.  “This is another important milestone in AIG’s remarkable
turnaround,” Tim Massad, the Treasury’s assistant secretary for
financial stability, said in the statement announcing the
insurer’s payment to the government. “We continue to make
progress in recovering the taxpayers’ investments in AIG.”  AIG repaid the remaining $21 billion it owed to the  Federal
Reserve Bank of New York . Treasury converted its $49.1 billion
preferred stake into 92 percent of AIG common stock in January.
The holding was reduced to 77 percent in a May share sale. AIG’s
outstanding balance to the Treasury is $51 billion, according to
yesterday’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  