-- 
Air Berlin CEO Hunold Quits After Cutting Routes to Stem Mounting Losses

-- B y   A l e x   W e b b   a n d   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-08-18T12:25:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/air-berlin-ceo-hunold-quits-after-cutting-routes-to-stem-mounting-losses.html
Air Berlin Plc (AB1)  Chief Executive
Officer Joachim Hunold quit after 20 years in charge as  Europe ’s
third-biggest discount airline prepares to slash routes and
ground planes in an effort to stem mounting losses.  Hunold, 61, will step down on Sept. 1 and board member
Hartmut Mehdorn, 66, the former chief of German state rail
operator Deutsche Bahn AG, will become interim CEO. The stock
traded 2.8 percent lower as of 2:06 p.m. in Frankfurt after
jumping 4.4 percent when the resignation was announced.  Air Berlin will scrap unprofitable routes, cut frequencies
and partially withdraw from regional airports to focus on four
main hubs, the company said today in a statement. More than half
of the 1 million seats that are being eliminated will go at the
City Shuttle division that serves European business centers.  “I’d planned to step down for some time but thought it
better to resign at this juncture so the company can make an
unburdened fresh start,” Hunold, who will remain as a director,
said on a conference call. “I find it very hard even to
conceive right now of doing anything similar somewhere else.”  Hunold, who had previously worked at charter carrier LTU,
joined Air Berlin as managing director and majority shareholder
in 1991. American founder Kim Lundgren had to seek local owners
when German reunification gave the country sovereignty over
Berlin’s airspace for the first time since World War II.  Full-Year Loss  “It’s a surprise how quickly the resignation has come
about,” said Per-Ola Hellgren, an analyst at Landesbank Baden-
Wuerttemberg in Mainz,  Germany , who is reviewing a “buy” rating
on the stock. “Mehdorn is the best candidate, but it won’t lead
to any fundamental difference in Air Berlin’s situation.”  The savings measures “will possibly not suffice to obtain a
positive operating result at the end of the year” as fuel costs,
aviation taxes and the effects of political unrest in Arab
countries weigh on earnings, Hunold said today. The board said
later that it accepted his resignation with “great respect.”  Air Berlin shares have declined 33 percent this year,
valuing the company at 213 million euros ($307 million).  Ryanair
Holdings Plc (RYA) , Europe’s biggest discount carrier, has slipped 17
percent and  EasyJet Plc (EZJ) , the No. 2, is down 24 percent.  ‘Total Overhaul’  “Something radical needs to be done to get control of the
debt, bring Air Berlin back to profitability and move forward,”
said  Joe Gill , an analyst at Bloxham Stockbrokers in Dublin.
“It’s been a disaster for shareholders. They need someone to
totally overhaul the business model and strategy and if they
can’t get their cost base right they might have to just sell.”  Gill doesn’t have a rating for Air Berlin but has an
“overweight” recommendation on Ryanair, which said May 23 it
will cut capacity for the first time in its history this winter
as fuel costs threaten to render dozens of routes unprofitable.  Air Berlin is a “hotchpotch” of scheduled and chartered
services, short-haul and long-haul routes and unionized and non-
unionized labor, operates a “mishmash” of different aircraft
types and has too big a base in Palma de Mallorca, Gill said.  Among routes being cut by Air Berlin are those from
 Frankfurt  to Naples and Hamburg, Stuttgart to St Petersburg,
Munich to Cairo and Dusseldorf to Paris. The network will be
focused on Berlin, Dusseldorf, Vienna and Palma, the airport for
which its first flight left Berlin-Tegel in 1979.  The eight planes being dropped represent almost 5 percent
of the 170-strong fleet.  Air Berlin had a second-quarter net loss of 43.9 million
euros, wider than the 33.9 million euros predicted by analysts.
The carrier first said on Aug. 11 that it would struggle to post
a full-year profit and planned to shrink its network.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in Frankfurt 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net . 