-- 
Air Force Lifts Flight Ban on Lockheed F-35 Fighter Jet

-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 
2011-08-18T16:28:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/air-force-lifts-flight-ban-on-lockheed-f-35-fighter-jet-1-.html
The U.S. Air Force today lifted a
two-week-old flight ban that had grounded  Lockheed Martin
Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, following a power problem on
a plane at Edwards Air Force Base in  California .  An investigation found there was a defective valve in the
plane’s Integrated Power Package, a turbo machine that provides
power to start the engine, according to an Air Force statement.  While the probe continues, engineers determined that it is
safe to resume test flights, said Joe DellaVedova, a spokesman
for the Joint Strike Fighter Program Office. The F-35 is the
Pentagon’s biggest procurement program at a planned $382 billion
to buy 2,457 of the stealth F-35 jets in different versions for
the Navy, Air Force and Marine Corps.  Flights will resume for 18 of the 20 fighters that the Air
Force has been flying, DellaVedova said. Two planes based at
Eglin Air Force Base in  Florida  will remain grounded because
they lack the monitoring systems used in developmental test
aircraft that can detect any problems in flight, he said.  Flight operations will resume for the rest of the planes,
which are based at Edwards and at the Patuxent River Naval Air
Station in  Maryland .  Budget Target  The F-35 may be a target for budget cuts as the Pentagon is
pressed to help lower the federal deficit. The Defense
Department will need to find at least $325 billion in cuts over
the next 10 years in the first phase of a $2.4 trillion deficit-
reduction agreement approved by Congress. Another round of $500
billion in defense cuts may be imposed if Congress fails to
approve enough budget savings in other areas.  Before leaving office in June, former Defense Secretary
 Robert Gates  said the Pentagon may need to reconsider how many
planes should be purchased.  The F-35 has five more years of developmental testing to
complete before it is used in operations, DellaVedova said.  Concern about the plane stemmed from an Aug. 2 incident at
Edwards, when the Integrated Power Package, made by  Honeywell
International Inc. (HON)  of  Morris Township ,  New Jersey , failed during
an engine run, forcing an engine shutdown. No injuries to the
pilot or ground crew occurred.  A valve in Honeywell’s power package did not function
properly, according to the Air Force statement. Flights can
resume on aircraft while the valve is monitored, it said. A
permanent fix for the problem is being developed.  The Air Force has also grounded Lockheed’s F-22 Raptor, the
military’s most advanced fighter, because of reported problems
with the plane’s system for supplying oxygen to the pilot.  The flight ban on the F-22, in effect since May, remains
until an investigation is completed in a few months, said  Air
Force  spokesman Lieutenant Colonel John Haynes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  