-- 
ANZ Bank Third-Quarter Unaudited Profit Rose on Margin Gain

-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 
2011-08-18T23:01:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/anz-bank-third-quarter-unaudited-profit-rose-on-higher-margin.html
Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. (ANZ) , the worst performer among Australia’s four largest
banking stocks this year, said third-quarter profit rose 7.7
percent as margins on its lending businesses widened.  Third-quarter unaudited, underlying profit in the three
months to June 30 was about A$1.4 billion ($1.5 billion), the
Melbourne-based bank said in a statement today. A year earlier,
the bank reported profit of A$1.3 billion.  Chief Executive Officer  Michael Smith , facing the weakest
Australian demand for mortgages in more than three decades, is
expanding in  Asia  to double profit generated from the region in
the next seven years. Larger rival  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  this
week said fiscal third-quarter profit slipped as demand for
lending fell and consumer caution increased on market turmoil.  “While the Australian banks are not as exposed to global
volatility, we believe the the majors will find it hard to
completely avoid tough market conditions,” Victor German, a
Sydney-based analyst at Nomura  Australia  Ltd., said ahead of
today’s report. “ANZ is most exposed given it has the highest
trading income,” which makes up 12 percent of total income
versus 8 percent for its peers, German said.  Income from the bank’s global markets trading business fell
39 percent compared with the first-half average, with this trend
continuing into the fourth quarter, the bank said today.  The shares have fallen 13 percent this year, outpacing
Westpac’s 8.2 percent slump,  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) ’s
6.8 percent slide and  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) ’s 2.3 percent
drop.  Global Environment ‘Difficult’  Group margins increased around 2 basis points from the end
of the first half, the bank said in the statement.  “Despite the market turmoil which has continued in July
and August, there is good reason for optimism in our key
domestic markets in Australia and  New Zealand ,” Smith said in
today’s statement.  “There is no question the global environment is difficult
but we believe there are still significant opportunities across
our business,” he said.  Deposit growth exceeded loan growth by A$14 billion in the
nine months to the end of June, ANZ Bank said. Deposits make up
61 percent of the lender’s funding, up from 50 percent in 2008.  “The wholesale funding task for 2011 is complete,” the
bank said in the statement.  The bank’s tier 1 capital ratio at the end of the quarter
was 10.6 percent.  Impairments Drop  Provision for credit impairments in the quarter totaled
A$328 million, taking the charge for the nine months to the end
of June to A$989 million, 31 percent lower than the previous
comparable period.  Thirty-day delinquencies fell 12 basis points in the
quarter, the bank said without giving an overall figure.  Deposits at ANZ Bank’s retail Australian business rose 2.3
percent in the quarter, and 10.1 percent year-to-date, it said.
Lending grew 1.5 percent.  “Mortgage lending volumes are improving after a period of
softness in the second quarter,” the bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  