-- 
AOL Discounted Gets Last, Best Hope in Private Equity

-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-08-18T02:39:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/aol-at-57-cents-on-dollar-gets-last-best-hope-in-private-equity-real-m-a.html
For a private equity firm that’s
looking for the cheapest way to get online,  AOL Inc. (AOL)  is trading
for 57 cents on the dollar.  The Internet pioneer spun off from  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  in 2009
plunged to a record low last week after cutting this year’s
profit forecast because of slowing growth in display advertising
sales. With its market capitalization reduced to $1.3 billion
from a peak of $3.1 billion last year, New York-based AOL is now
the cheapest relative to its net assets of any U.S. Web company
with a value of more than $500 million, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  AOL has posted net losses of almost $800 million in less
than two years as a standalone company as the profitable dial-up
Internet business becomes obsolete and online advertising sales
on websites from the Huffington Post to Moviefone fail to make
money. With AOL trading at a 43 percent discount, the company
may now attract private equity buyers that can still extract
$1.5 billion in cash out of the access business within three
years, according to B. Riley & Co.  “Private equity could look at the business,” Ken Sena, an
analyst at Evercore Partners Inc. in  New York , said in a
telephone interview. They may “decide that the company is worth
a lot more than its current price tag,” he said.  “It would take them about three years to pay off. The
question is, between now and when the access business ultimately
declines, will they be profitable enough?”  Maureen Sullivan, a spokeswoman for AOL, declined to
comment on the prospect of a sale.  Takeover Candidate  AOL has fallen 57 percent from its peak in April 2010 to
$12.45 yesterday. The shares tumbled a record 26 percent Aug. 9,
hitting an all-time low of $10.22 the next day after AOL lowered
its annual forecast for adjusted operating income because of
lower revenue from the advertisements sold on Web sites, known
as display ads.  Google Inc. (GOOG)  controls the market for ads linked
to Internet searches.  “It’s possible, now that the stock has fallen, that the
company could be a takeover candidate,”  David Joyce , an analyst
at Miller Tabak & Co. in New York, said in a phone interview.  At 0.57 times book value, or assets minus liabilities, AOL
is cheaper than the 43 other U.S. Internet companies that have
market capitalizations greater than $500 million, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. It’s also trading at the least expensive
price-to-earnings multiple.  Analysts’ Estimates  Four Wall Street analysts recommend buying the stock, while
eight suggest holding and only one says to sell, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The shares may reach $19.45, based
on the average of their estimates, 56 percent higher than the
closing price yesterday.  “The entirety of AOL is more compelling for private equity
today, whether to take it over or buy it and split it up,”
 Clayton Moran , an analyst with Benchmark Co. in  Boca Raton ,
 Florida , said in a phone interview.  An acquisition of AOL may command about $1.5 billion, based
on the discount a buyer would likely pay relative to the present
value of the company’s estimated cash flow,  Sameet Sinha , an
analyst at B. Riley in  San Francisco , said in a phone interview.  Such an amount would be in line with the 41 percent premium
paid in takeovers greater than $500 million of U.S. Internet
companies in the last 12 months, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. That would equate to about $1.54 billion including the
company’s $338 million in net cash as of June.  Dial-Up Profits  The access business will generate a total of about $1.5
billion in earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization from 2011 to 2013, even as customers continue to
abandon the older dial-up technology, estimates Sinha. That
means the access business’ cash flow alone may be enough to pay
off an acquisition within three years, Sinha said.  “Everything after that is pure profit,” Sinha said.  After the combination to form AOL Time Warner was announced
in January 2000, the Web access business began losing customers
to faster online services from telephone and cable-TV carriers.
By the time the company switched to an ad-driven business model
in 2006, Google of  Mountain View ,  California , and Sunnyvale,
California-based Yahoo! Inc. were already courting marketers
online.  AOL’s access business had 3.4 million subscribers as of
June 30, down 23 percent from a year earlier, according to
regulatory filings. The business may wind down by 2015,
estimates Evercore’s Sena.  Huffington Post   Chief Executive Officer  Tim Armstrong , 40, is banking on
display ad sales on the Huffington Post, TechCrunch, MapQuest
and Patch’s local community news websites to help the
advertising business reach profitability before the earnings
from the access business vanish. Armstrong acquired the
Huffington Post in March for $300 million, a price tag that
represents almost a quarter of AOL’s current market value, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “They hope that the display advertising and ad network
businesses will basically compensate for that loss and become
profitable,” said B. Riley’s Sinha. “The Huffington Post is
essentially the cornerstone of their branded display strategy.”  Armstrong, who previously ran Google’s ad sales in the
Americas, was hired as AOL’s CEO in March 2009. Since the
separation was completed in December of that year, AOL has
fallen 47 percent.  AOL’s earnings have “cratered” with net losses amounting to
$788 million since the spinoff in the fourth quarter of 2009,
and investors are losing confidence, said  Keith Wirtz ,
Cincinnati-based chief investment officer at Fifth Third Asset
Management, which oversees $16.7 billion.  ‘Cash Cow’  “Private equity firms may not be stepping in because they
don’t see an end game,” Wirtz said in a phone interview. “This
is a cash cow that’s melting like an ice cube.”  AOL’s share of U.S. display ad sales is projected to
decline to 4.2 percent this year, down from 6.4 percent in 2009,
according to New York-based research firm EMarketer Inc.
Facebook Inc. will command almost 18 percent of the market in
2011, while Yahoo is expected to draw 13 percent and Google 9.3
percent, according to EMarketer.  Private equity firms will be the most compelled to acquire
AOL, given that they can create a financial model based on the
dial-up unit’s “manageable declining cash flow story,” said
Benchmark’s Moran.  “I have no doubt that AOL is at a level that private equity
buyers are currently looking,”  Michael Holland , chairman of New
York-based Holland & Co., which oversees more than $4 billion,
said in a phone interview. “They have to be. It’s possible that
AOL can be recreated into something more profitable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 