-- 
Marchionne Maserati Made in Michigan Lets Chrysler Drive Luxury SUV: Cars

-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 
2011-08-18T06:06:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/marchionne-maserati-made-in-michigan-lets-chrysler-drive-luxury-suv-cars.html
Fiat SpA (F) ’s Maserati, the maker of
the $120,250 Quattroporte driven by rock star Bono, is betting
that Italian luxury can also be a made-in-Detroit SUV.  The elite car brand, based in Modena,  Italy , plans to build
its first sport-utility vehicle at Chrysler Group LLC’s
Jefferson North assembly plant, said a person familiar with the
matter. A concept version of the model, which will be based on
the  Jeep Grand Cherokee , is due to be unveiled at the Frankfurt
motor show next month, said the person, who declined to be
identified before the official announcement.  The American-made Maserati SUV is a product of the
integration between Fiat and Chrysler.  Sergio Marchionne , who
runs both carmakers, aims to expand Maserati and sister brand
 Alfa Romeo  by drawing on Fiat and Chrysler’s combined size to
boost profit. The strategy mimics  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s blend of
volume brands and high-margin luxury nameplates that’s helped
Audi generate more than 40 percent of the group’s earnings from
less than 20 percent of sales.  The project risks turning off fans of the brand’s sleek
Italian styling and sporty reputation like Geoff Lancaster. The
61-year-old owner of a 4200 Spyder is concerned that a Jeep-
based Maserati could fall flat like the TC project between
Chrysler and the Italian carmaker in the late 1980s.  “The crucial thing is going to be how well they
differentiate it from its Grand Cherokee roots,” said
Lancaster, who works in  London  and has driven Maserati cars for
the past seven years. “Maserati will have to wave their magic
wand over it quite aggressively to make it competitive.”  Pure Maserati  The Italian manufacturer aims to counter that concern and
replicate the success of Porsche SE’s 57,930-euro ($84,044)
Cayenne. The Stuttgart, Germany-based manufacturer, known for
the iconic 911 sports car, now relies on the SUV for half its
deliveries, even though it shares its chassis and many other
parts with the 49,600-euro VW Touareg. A smaller Porsche SUV is
under development for 2013.  “The important point is that whatever Maserati we launch
will be a product that respects the entire heritage, image,
characteristics, and customer expectations of this brand,”
Harald Wester, Maserati’s chief executive officer, said in a
March interview. “What ends up in the dealer shops should be
100 percent Maserati.”  The Italian manufacturer declined to comment on Maserati’s
product plans ahead of the Frankfurt show.  More Competition  Fiat is taking the risk in a bid to tap the higher profit
margins for luxury SUVs. The models can command about 10,000
euros more than a sedan, while using much of the same
technology, said  Ian Fletcher , an IHS Automotive analyst in
London. Demand for large upscale SUVs is set to expand 24
percent to 1.09 million vehicles in 2015, according to IHS.  “It should be a real Maserati and not just another SUV,”
said Fletcher. “A Maserati SUV goes in the right direction. It
just needs to sit within the rest of the range.”  Demand for luxury SUVs has nearly doubled since 2000 as
high-end carmakers target the lucrative niche.  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the world’s top maker of  luxury vehicles ,
introduced the X1 in 2009, expanding its lineup to four SUVs.
Audi introduced the Q3 this year, and  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT)  unveiled
the Range Rover Evoque. VW’s Bentley is also considering an SUV.  The new Maserati would advance Fiat and Chrysler’s
integration. Joint projects include the development of more than
20 vehicles based on the same compact platform, including an
Alfa Romeo SUV, the Jeep Compass, a Fiat sedan in  China  and a
fuel-efficient Dodge. Fiat assembles the retro-styled 500
subcompact for the U.S. at Chrysler’s plant near Mexico City.
The goal is for the carmakers to reduce costs and generate more
than 100 billion euros in revenue by 2014.  ‘Good Progress’  To boost Maserati, Fiat is investing 500 million euros at
its Grugliasco factory to produce a new line of sedans. The
investment could expand the brand nearly ten-fold, with
production rising to as many as 50,000 cars a year, compared
with 5,675 cars last year.  Fiat, which bought the 97-year-old brand in 1993, struggled
to stem the unit’s losses until 2007. Maserati’s profit rose
12.5 percent in the second quarter to 9 million euros on sales
of 168 million euros.  “Maserati is making good progress, notwithstanding the
fact that we’re still living off a set of architectures which I
think are in need of an upgrading,” Marchionne said in a July
26 conference call. “By the end of 2012, we will be able to see
new models that will be coming into the marketplace.”  Even by breaking with its Italian roots, the brand
identified by its trident emblem has a chance to win over
customers if the carmaker can turn the Jeep into an authentic
Maserati.  “It’s a trick that can be pulled off,” said Maserati-
owner Lancaster. “The current management is very canny.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  