-- 
Marijuana DNA Sequenced by Startup in Search for Medical Uses

-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 
2011-08-18T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/marijuana-dna-sequenced-by-startup.html
Kevin McKernan was leading  Life
Technologies Corp. (LIFE) ’s Ion Torrent DNA-sequencing research when a
new business opportunity caught his eye: marijuana.  A year later, McKernan, 38, has quit his job, formed a
startup run from his house in Marblehead,  Massachusetts , and
announced today that the company had sequenced the entire genome
of the cannabis plant.  The project, which cost about $200,000, may lead to the
development of treatments for cancer, pain and inflammatory
diseases, he said. McKernan’s company,  Medicinal Genomics , is
making the data public using  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s EC2 cloud-
computing system. McKernan called the work a “draft assembly,”
and it hasn’t yet been published in a peer-reviewed academic
journal.  “This is the beginning of a more scientific approach to
the genetics of the species,”  Richard Gibbs , director of the
Human Genome Sequencing Center at the Baylor College of Medicine
in Houston, said in a telephone interview yesterday. “This is
not really about marijuana; it’s about pharmacology.”  An important step to find a species’ potential utility is
to map its DNA, the building block of life, according to Gibbs,
who said he has known McKernan for more than 15 years.  McKernan worked on the  Human Genome Project  from 1996 to
2000, and started a commercial laboratory with his two brothers
called Agencourt Bioscience, which was sold to Beckman Coulter
Inc. in 2005. A spin-out of Agencourt that made sequencing
technology, called Agencourt Personal Genomics, was acquired by
Applied Biosystems Inc., which combined with Invitrogen Corp. in
2008 to become Carlsbad, California-based Life Technologies.
Life Technologies bought Ion Torrent last year for $375 million
in cash and stock.  Open Access  McKernan said his company’s goal is to allow researchers to
find ways to maximize the cannabis plant’s therapeutic benefits
and minimize its psychoactive effects.  “These pathways can be optimized in the plant or cloned
into other hosts for more efficient biologic production,”
Medicinal Genomics said in a statement. “It may be possible
through genome directed breeding to attenuate the psychoactive
effects of cannabis, while enhancing the medicinal aspects.”  The plant makes chemical compounds called cannabinoids, a
class that includes tetrahydrocannabinol, or THC, the main
psychoactive substance in marijuana. Another such compound
called cannabidiol, or CBD, has shown promise in shrinking
tumors in rats without the psychoactive effects, McKernan said.  Medical Uses  “That one has been predominantly bred out of the plant as
it’s been bred for recreational use,” he said. His company’s
business model is to develop assays to enable regulators,
government agencies or pharmaceutical companies to research
cannabis’s gene pathways.  Donald Abrams , a professor of medicine at the University of
 California ,  San Francisco , who has done research into medical
cannabis since 1997, said scientists have been able to study the
plant without knowing the genome.  “We know what the active ingredients of the plant are
already,” Abrams, chief of oncology at San Francisco General
Hospital, said in a telephone interview. “You don’t need the
genome; you need the plant.”  Companies such as  GW Pharmaceuticals Plc (GWP) , based in
Salisbury,  England , have developed cannabis-based medicines. GW
sells Sativex for muscle spasms related to multiple sclerosis,
using THC and CBD.  McKernan said he was initially convinced to pursue the
research after seeing papers published in academic journals
including Nature on the plant’s tumor-shrinking effects in rats.  “One in three people are going to get cancer, and one in
four are going to die with it or from it,” he said. “So any
compound, as preliminary as this may be, that’s nontoxic and
shows hope there, we should be all over.  “The only way I knew how to do that was to sequence the
genome.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 