-- 
Asia Commodity Day Ahead: Gold Soars to Record as Economy Sags

-- B y   M i l l i e   M u n s h i
-- 
2011-08-18T21:30:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/asia-commodity-day-ahead-gold-soars-to-record-as-economy-sags.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Gold Futures Soar to Record as Economy Sags, Equities Tumble  Gold futures surged to a record $1,829.70 an ounce on
demand for an investment haven as mounting concern that the
global economy is faltering triggered a plunge in equities.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Fund Manager  Turned Farmer Birch Looking to Expand Land Holdings  Graham Birch, the fund manager who gave up finance for
agriculture in 2010, is looking to expand his 2,300-acre farm
near Dorset, England, with land considered “an excellent safe
haven.”  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Falls as Banks Cut Forecasts on  China , Global Economy  Copper fell the most in more than a week after Morgan
Stanley and Deutsche Bank AG cut their forecasts for economic
growth worldwide and in China, the biggest user of the metal.  MINING:  Xstrata, BHP, Anglo Approve $1.3 Billion Coal-Mine Expansion (3)  Xstrata Plc, BHP Billiton Ltd. and Anglo American Plc,
partners in the world’s biggest open-pit coal mine for exports,
approved a $1.3 billion expansion at the Colombian site to boost
output as prices for the fuel rise.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold to Keep Rallying After Reaching a Record, Barclays Says (1)  Gold will keep rising after prices reached a record because
the metal is being driven by slower economic growth and near-
zero  interest rates ,  Barclays Capital  said.  AGRICULTURE:  Corn Cash Premiums Drop on Reduced Demand; Soybean Basis Slides  Cash premiums for corn shipped in August to export
terminals near  New Orleans  fell relative to Chicago futures on
reduced demand from exporters. The soybean basis weakened.  Cotton Declines as U.S. Sales Get Canceled;  Orange Juice  Rises  Cotton futures fell on signs of dwindling demand for
supplies from the U.S., the world’s biggest exporter. Orange
juice rose.  Corn, Soybeans Fall as Slowing Global Economies Reduce Demand  Corn and soybeans fell the most in more than a week on
signs that slowing global economic growth will trim demand for
crops from the U.S., the world’s biggest producer and exporter.  Wheat Drops on Concern Demand Will Slump as Economy Falters  Wheat fell the most in a week as equities and commodities
tumbled, stoking concern that demand for U.S. grains will shrink
as the global economy falters.  Cattle Fall on Signs of Rising Supply, Slack Demand; Hogs Drop  Cattle futures fell to a three-week low on signs of
increasing U.S. beef supplies and concern that sagging economic
growth will curb demand. Hog prices declined to the cheapest
since January.  Argentine Wheat Crop Smaller Than Expected, Government Says (1)  Argentina ’s wheat crop,  Latin America ’s largest, will cover
a smaller surface than originally expected, according to the
agricultural ministry.  Sugar Drops on Thai Supply Outlook; Coffee Gains; Cocoa Falls  Sugar fell for the first time in three sessions on signs of
increased production in  Thailand , the world’s second-largest
exporter. Coffee advanced, and cocoa retreated.  Costliest Texas Drought May Boost Beef Supply, Lower Tyson Costs  The costliest drought in Texas history probably forced
ranchers to sell the most cattle to feedlots since December,
signaling a surge in U.S. meat supply that may cut costs for
processors including Tyson Foods Inc.  SHIPPING:  Ore-Ship Rents Climb Most in Two Months on Increased Cargoes  Hire costs for capesize ships that haul iron ore and coal
rose the most in two months on increased shipments from
Australia and  Brazil .  ECONOMIES:  Philadelphia-Area Manufacturing Contracts Most Since 2009 (2)  Manufacturing in the Philadelphia region unexpectedly
contracted in August by the most in more than two years as
orders plunged and factories shed workers.  U.S. Economy: Consumer Prices Climb, Manufacturing Falters (1)  The cost of living in the U.S. climbed more than forecast
in July, which could make it harder for Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  to convince colleagues to immediately act to
spur growth after manufacturing in the Philadelphia region
plunged in August.  Jobless Claims in U.S. Rose More Than Forecast Last Week (1)  More Americans than forecast filed applications for
 unemployment benefits  last week, signaling the labor market is
struggling two years into the economic recovery.  Morgan Stanley Cuts Global Growth Forecast After Stock Rout (2)  Morgan Stanley cut its forecast for global growth this
year, citing an “insufficient” policy response to  Europe ’s
sovereign debt crisis, weakened confidence and the prospect of
fiscal tightening.  OTHER MARKETS:  U.S. Stocks Tumble on Global Economy, European Funding Concerns  U.S. stocks tumbled, sending the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  down more than 400 points for the fourth time this
month, on concern the global economy is slowing and speculation
that European banks lack enough capital.  Dollar Climbs as Growth, Contagion Concern Fuel U.S. Debt Demand  The dollar gained the most in two weeks versus a basket of
currencies of six major U.S. trade partners as stocks plunged on
concern the global economy is slowing and speculation European
banks lack sufficient capital.  Oil Caps Year’s Third-Biggest Drop as Banks Cut Growth Outlook  Crude oil  capped the third-largest decline of 2011 as
commodities fell around the world after Morgan Stanley and
Deutsche Bank AG cut their forecasts for global economic
expansion.  SPORTS:  Queens Park Rangers Bought by AirAsia CEO  Tony Fernandes  (2)  Queens Park Rangers, promoted to English soccer’s Premier
League at the end of last season, has been bought by Tony
Fernandes, chief executive officer of  Malaysia ’s AirAsia Bhd.  England  Reaches 75-0 on First Day Against  India ; Rains Ends Play  England reached 75 for no loss on the first day of the
fourth and final cricket Test against India today. Rain meant no
play was possible after lunch.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  