-- 
Asian Currencies Retreat as Reports Signal Weakening Economic Outlook

-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-08-18T08:50:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/asian-currencies-drop-as-reports-signal-weaker-economic-outlook.html
Asian currencies declined, led by
 Singapore ’s dollar and Indonesia’s rupiah, as economic data
signaled a weaker outlook for the region.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index fell the most in a
week after reports showed  Japan ’s exports shrank more than
economists expected, Malaysia’s economy grew at the slowest pace
since 2009 and Singapore’s overseas sales slumped for the first
time in three months. Morgan Stanley and Deutsche Bank AG cut
estimates for China’s growth on concern its exports will slow as
global economic prospects deteriorate.  “Our economic structure is pretty much tilted toward the
external sector and when there’s concern about overseas demand,
we are worried about the exports,” said Nalin Chutchotitham, a
Bangkok-based market analyst at Kasikornbank Pcl. “This is
weighing on regional currencies.”  The  Singapore dollar  slid 0.5 percent to S$1.2079 against
its U.S. counterpart as of 4:15 p.m. local time, poised for its
biggest loss in almost two weeks, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The rupiah fell 0.3 percent to 8,545 and Malaysia’s
ringgit declined 0.2 percent to 2.9795, retreating from a two-
week high.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of stocks slumped 1.5 percent,
halting a three-day advance. Japanese exports fell 3.3 percent
in July from a year earlier, the  Finance Ministry  said today in
 Tokyo . The median estimate of 24 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was for a 2.6 percent drop, after a 1.6 percent
decrease in June.  Rate Outlook  Indonesia’s currency weakened for the first time in four
days, retreating from a two-week high.  “Asian equities are down and that puts pressure on the
rupiah,” said Mika Martumpal, a currency analyst at PT Bank
Commonwealth in Jakarta.  Singapore’s overseas sales shrank 2.8 percent last month
from a year earlier, the government said yesterday.  Malaysia ’s
gross domestic product rose 4 percent last quarter, after
expanding a revised 4.9 percent in the previous three months,
the central bank said after the markets closed yesterday.
Government data showed inflation eased to 3.4 percent in July,
from a two-year high of 3.5 percent in June.  “With slower GDP and inflation, the chances of rate
increases have diminished,” said Nik M. Khairul, a treasury
dealer at Asian Finance Bank Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur . “The ringgit
cannot be expected to appreciate very fast now.”  HSBC Holdings Plc said its forecast for the central bank to
raise the overnight policy rate next month from the current 3
percent is “increasingly at risk.” ING Groep NV reiterated its
view that Malaysia’s policy makers are done raising rates this
year.  China  Forecasts  The yuan was little changed at 6.3877 per dollar in
Shanghai after Morgan Stanley cut its 2012 GDP forecast for
China to 8.7 percent from 9 percent, saying in a research note
today that Asia’s biggest economy won’t be insulated from a
slowdown in the U.S. and  Europe . Deutsche Bank lowered its
prediction for this year’s expansion to 8.9 percent from 9.1
percent, according to a report published yesterday.  China’s trade growth will slow in the second half and
fiscal tightening in Western nations means their demand will
wane, Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  said yesterday in  Hong Kong .
The nation is the world’s biggest exporter and the largest
contributor to the global economic expansion.  Elsewhere, the Philippine peso dropped 0.2 percent to
42.515 per dollar and  Thailand ’s baht retreated 0.03 percent to
29.87. Taiwan’s dollar fell 0.1 percent to NT$28.99 and South
Korea’s won declined 0.2 percent to 1,074.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  