-- 
Mass Graves Discovered in Sudan’s Southern Kordofan State, Satellite Says

-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y   a n d   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-08-18T12:24:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/mass-graves-discovered-in-sudan-s-southern-kordofan-state-satellite-says.html
Three suspected mass graves have
been identified in  Sudan ’s Southern Kordofan state, where
government forces have clashed with insurgents since June, the
Google Inc.-backed Satellite Sentinel Project said.  Satellite images captured in July and August, backed by
eyewitness reports, show white bundles that are “consistent with
human remains” close to newly disturbed earth in remote
locations in and around Kadugli, the state capital, the group
said yesterday on its  website .  Government forces may be trying to “actively conceal
evidence of potential war crimes and crimes against humanity” by
what the group said appears to be “concealing the presence of an
alleged mass grave underneath a water tower near Kadugli.”  The  UN Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights 
called in an Aug. 15 report for an investigation into possible
crimes against humanity and  war crimes , allegedly committed
mainly by government forces, during clashes in the state with
insurgents from the northern branch of South Sudan’s ruling
party.  Sudanese army spokesman Al-Sawarmi Khaled and Rabie Abdel
Ati, a senior member of President Umar al-Bashir’s  National
Congress Party , didn’t answer calls today to their mobile phones
seeking comment.  The UN said in the report the Sudanese army and militia
loyal to it may have carried out “extrajudicial killings,
arbitrary arrests and illegal detention, enforced
disappearances, attacks against civilians, including children,
looting of civilian homes and destruction of property.”  ‘Baseless’ Report  The Sudanese government rejected the UN report as
“baseless,” the state-run SUNA news agency reported on Aug. 15,
citing Foreign Ministry spokesman Al-Obaid Murawih. Government
officials previously denied that their forces violated human
rights in the state.  Clashes and airstrikes by the Sudanese army in Southern
Kordofan forced more than 73,000 people to flee their homes,
according to the UN.  Fighting broke out a month before South Sudan’s July 9
independence from Sudan, the culmination of a 2005 peace
agreement that ended the civil war between the north and south.  Southern Kordofan is Sudan’s only oil-producing state,
accounting for 115,000 barrels a day, according to Sudan’s
minister of state for oil, Ali Ahmed Osman.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Khartoum through the Nairobi newsroom at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 