-- 
Auditors Criticize IRS Implementation of Credit Card Rules

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-08-18T20:20:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/auditors-criticize-irs-implementation-of-credit-card-rules.html
An  audit released today  said the
 Internal Revenue Service  should improve its administration of a
new law that requires companies involved in processing and
settling credit-card payments to report transactions to the
government.  “We found that improvements must be made if this effort is
to function as intended, which is to help reduce the tax gap”
between taxes owed and collected, said J. Russell George, the
Treasury inspector general for tax administration.  Congress created the credit-card reporting rules in 2008.
The law requires companies involved in payment processing to
report annual totals of transactions with merchants. It took
effect for transactions starting on Jan. 1, and the first
reports are due in early 2012.  The burden of reporting falls on payment processing
companies including First Data Corp.,  Heartland Payment Systems
Inc. (HPY) , and  Total System Services Inc. (TSS)   IRS officials have said they plan to use the information
and data about cash transaction rates in various industries to
target auditing resources toward businesses that may be
underreporting income.  Law’s Requirements  When the law passed, the congressional Joint Committee on
Taxation estimated that it would generate $9.5 billion in
revenue for the federal government over 10 years.  The audit found that the forms created by the IRS may cause
the per-merchant totals reported to the government to include
the cash-back portion of debit card transactions, which isn’t
income to the merchant. It proposed an alternative form that
would include a separate line for cash back.  The report also found that difficulties in matching
taxpayer identification numbers could cause automatic 28 percent
withholding to be triggered erroneously for many businesses when
that part of the law takes effect in 2013.  The IRS’ antiquated system for matching tax identification
numbers to businesses can reject requests because of
disagreements as simple as replacing “and” with an ampersand,
said Mary Bennett, director of government and industry relations
at the  Electronic Transactions Association , a Washington
industry group representing payment processors.  “That is problematic for a number of reasons, and it’s
problematic for all parties, for the merchant, for the acquirer
and IRS,” she said.  In the IRS’s official response to the report, Faris Fink,
the commissioner of the Small Business/Self-Employed Division,
wrote that the agency disagrees “with the characterization that
implementation plans could result in burdens for taxpayers and
problems for the Internal Revenue Service.”  Fink also wrote that the IRS agrees with the
recommendations and is making changes to some forms and
procedures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  