-- 
Horwill Replaces Elsom as Wallabies Captain for World Cup, Giteau Omitted

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-08-18T02:54:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/australia-omits-giteau-picks-james-horwill-as-rugby-world-cup-captain.html
James Horwill will lead Australia’s
bid for an unprecedented third Rugby  World Cup  title, replacing
Rocky Elsom in a surprise move.  Second-rower Horwill, who captained the  Queensland Reds  to
this year’s Super Rugby title, will skipper a 30-man squad
including eight players who featured at the 2007 World Cup in
 France .  Matt Giteau  was among those omitted.  “I was initially very shocked,” Horwill, 26, said in a
televised interview. “Now it’s had a couple of days to sink in
I’m really thrilled and looking forward to the opportunity of
leading my country.”  Wallabies coach  Robbie Deans  said the change in leadership
before the tournament begins next month in  New Zealand  had been
made because Horwill was considered the player best equipped to
handle the all-round responsibilities associated with the
captaincy. Elsom had led  Australia  in its past 24 Tests
following his appointment in 2009.  Deans said that taking the additional burdens of the
captain’s role off Elsom would benefit the flanker, who had
accepted his demotion because it was in the “best interests of
the team.”  Elsom, who returned from hamstring and ankle injuries in
the past five weeks, will remain in the Wallabies’ leadership
group with Horwill, David Pocock and Will Genia.  “With his recent challenges with his injuries, he’s only
just getting back to form,” Deans said of Elsom. “It just
frees him up to really focus on his rugby. As he gets back to
full fitness we expect big things from him.”  ‘Difficult Job’  Elsom, 28, urged the players to give the new captain their
full support.  “It can be a difficult job at times,” he said in
televised comments. “You need everyone right behind you.”  Giteau, who was the most-experienced back in the Wallabies
40-man squad named at the start of the season, missed out as
Deans and his selectors opted for Berrick Barnes as the backup
fly-half and Nick Phipps as a third specialist scrum-half.  Giteau’s omission “is a surprise in terms of the balance
of the squad,” former Wallabies hooker Brendan Cannon said in
analyzing the picks on Fox Sports News. “He’s very versatile.
He could have been a very valuable guy to make up the numbers.”  No. 8 Wycliff Palu, hooker Tatafu Polota-Nau, winger  Drew Mitchell  and prop James Slipper were included even though they
haven’t played a Test this year because of injuries. Barnes and
center Rob Horne were chosen after recently making comebacks in
club rugby.  Back Row  Matt Hodgson ’s omission means the squad doesn’t have
specialist cover for first-choice openside flanker Pocock.
Radike Samo, Scott Higginbotham and Ben McCalman were the other
back-row forwards named in the squad.  Hodgson will join Giteau among the 12-man back-up pool
should Australia need to replace injured players. Squad members
injured prior to or during the World Cup can be replaced under
tournament rules.  “They’ve had the background with us,” Deans said. “As
such, they’re the guys we’ll be looking to should further
playing resources be needed.”  Australia, the 1991 and 1999 champion, opens its World Cup
campaign Sept. 11 against Italy in Auckland. It then faces
Ireland, the U.S. and  Russia  in its other group stage matches at
the 20-nation tournament.  AUSTRALIA WORLD CUP SQUAD: James Horwill (captain), Ben
Alexander, Adam Ashley-Cooper, Berrick Barnes, Kurtley Beale,
Luke Burgess, Quade Cooper,  Rocky Elsom , Anthony Fainga’a, Saia
Fainga’a, Will Genia, Scott Higginbotham, Rob Horne, Digby
Ioane, Sekope Kepu, Salesi Ma’afu, Pat McCabe, Ben McCalman,
Drew Mitchell, Stephen Moore,  James O’Connor , Wycliff Palu, Nick
Phipps, David Pocock, Tatafu Polota-Nau, Radike Samo, Nathan
Sharpe, Rob Simmons, James Slipper, Dan Vickerman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  