-- 
Finns Set Greek Collateral Trend as Austria, Dutch, Slovaks Follow Demands

-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s   a n d   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 
2011-08-18T13:41:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/austria-joins-finland-in-asking-greece-for-collateral-on-emergency-loans.html
Finland ’s efforts to get collateral
in exchange for new rescue loans to Greece has sparked calls for
similar deals from other euro members, highlighting obstacles to
approving a second bailout for Europe’s most indebted country.  Austria  and the Netherlands, both rated AAA, and Slovenia
and Slovakia will probably pursue collateral arrangements after
the northernmost euro member was able to strike an agreement
with Greece this week, the countries said today.  “It always was our position in the council that if there
is a collateral setup, Austria will participate,” Harald Waiglein, a spokesman for Austria’s Finance Ministry, said in a
telephone interview from Vienna. The Netherlands “will demand
collateral, just like Austria,”  Finance Ministry  spokesman
Niels Redeker said by phone from The Hague today.  Finland’s collateral demands were included in a July 21
agreement by euro-area leaders to provide a new 159 billion-euro
($229 billion) aid package for Greece and grant broader powers
to the region’s rescue fund. At the summit, AAA rated Finland
fought for extra assurances it won’t lose money on its backing
for the European Financial Stability Facility. The July 21
agreement needs to be ratified nationally.  Collateral Rights  Slovenia will “use its right to secure its part of the
collateral within the general frame of the group,” Finance
Ministry spokeswoman Irena Frkulj said in a phone interview out
of Ljubljana today. A collateral deal “is one of Slovakia’s
conditions,” Patricia Malecova, a spokeswoman at the
Bratislava-based Finance Ministry said in an e-mailed statement.
Still, Slovak Finance Minister Ivan Miklos told reporters that
bilateral agreements are no solution.  “Finland’s insistence on collateral unduly complicates the
process to come to a swift agreement on Greece, thus increasing
the risk of political noise in the coming days and weeks,”
Francois Cabau, an economist at  Barclays Capital , wrote in a
note to customers today.  Redeker said the position of the Netherlands is that “if
Finland gets collateral, it shouldn’t hurt our creditor
position.”  The collateral agreement “allows Finland to participate in
the Greek loan,” Finnish Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen said
Aug. 16, when she announced the deal. “Without this
arrangement, Finland won’t participate.”  The Nordic country’s agreement requires Greece to deposit
cash in a state account that Finland will invest in AAA rated
bonds. The interest generated will raise the amount, which has
yet to be disclosed, to cover Finland’s bailout contribution.
The bilateral arrangement needs approval from other euro
members, Finland’s Finance Ministry said.  Equal Treatment  The Greek two-year note yield jumped 15 basis points to
35.14 percent, while the 10-year yield rose 24 basis points to
15.90 percent. The Portuguese 10-year yield climbed five basis
points to 10.51 percent. The Spanish two-year yield advanced
five basis points to 3.22 percent.  Euro-area countries lending to  Greece  should seek a region-
wide arrangement on collateral and not bilateral accords,
Estonian Finance Minister Juergen Ligi said in an e-mailed
response to questions.  “A common agreement with Greece is the real collateral
that ensures equal treatment to all creditor countries as well
as Greece’s reforms,” he said, adding that collateral provided
to an individual lender goes against “the spirit of euro zone
cooperation.”  Decisive Weeks  Waiglein said efforts to secure collateral deals are
unlikely to delay the implementation of measures agreed July 21.  The “next weeks are very decisive in that we will see how
other countries will respond to this collateral arrangement,”
Finland’s Urpilainen said.  Greece won a second bailout after a previous 110 billion-
euro package failed to prevent the spread of  Europe ’s debt
crisis. The new plan includes 50 billion euros in contributions
from private investors through bond exchanges and buybacks to
cut Europe’s biggest debt load.  A Greek Finance Ministry press officer who declined to be
identified by name because of ministry rules had no comment on
the possible additional requests for a collateral arrangement.
Austria’s demands were first reported by Helsinki-based
newspaper  Helsingin Sanomat .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net ;
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  