-- 
Australia Needs Private Money in Infrastructure, Eddington Says

-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 
2011-08-18T05:15:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/australia-needs-private-money-in-infrastructure-eddington-says.html
Rod Eddington, chairman of
Infrastructure  Australia  and former chief executive officer of
British Airways Plc., gave his views on the need for private
investment in Australian infrastructure projects, and  Qantas
Airways Ltd. (QAN) ’s move to set up a low-cost carrier in  Japan  in
partnership with Japan Airlines Co.  Eddington made the comments at an event in Sydney.  On infrastructure:  “In the next decade, we need to build somewhere between
A$500 billion ($524 billion) and A$700 billion worth of
infrastructure in this country, either as a result of growth or
replacement.  “It’s a big task and it’s equally clear that governments,
both federal and state, don’t have anything as much as is
necessary. Unless they can find ways to get the private sector
into the infrastructure space, in a way in which governments
wish the private sector to participate and the private sector
itself is prepared to participate, we simply won’t get the
infrastructure built.  “We could do as happens in some places, where the
government mandates a certain percentage, say, of superannuation
funds, be invested in an infrastructure vehicle. I take the view
that the trustees in super funds have a duty to their members to
get the best return, and if they get it by investing it
elsewhere, they should do so.  “What we’ve seen in some of the toll-road projects, is
firstly, those who’ve been involved have made very optimistic
assumptions about construction costs and very optimistic
assumptions about traffic, and have then been confronted with
reality. Equity investors particularly have had a tough time.”  On Qantas:  “I would hope more Australian companies will look to take
advantage of Asian markets and get much more inventive about
taking advantage of those markets. After all,  Asia  is on our
doorstep. I don’t see setting up a low-cost carrier in Japan as
an either/or about what happens to the business in Australia.
They are two decisions. Japan is absolutely the right place to
start. That’s a real opportunity and Qantas has decided to grasp
it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  