-- 
Bank of Moscow’s Ex-CEO Claims $4.8 Million for Contract Breach

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-08-18T15:59:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/bank-of-moscow-s-ex-ceo-claims-4-8-million-for-contract-breach.html
Bank of Moscow’s former Chief
Executive Officer Andrei Borodin is suing the lender for breach
of his labor contract, seeking more than 140 million rubles
($4.8 million), his lawyer said.  Borodin, who headed the bank before a takeover by VTB
Group,  Russia ’s second-largest lender, is claiming unpaid salary
plus interest, Mikhail Dolomanov said today by phone. A hearing
at Moscow’s Meshchansky Court is scheduled for Sept. 5, he said.  Bank of Moscow was granted a record bailout of 395 billion
rubles ($14 billion) as bad debt uncovered after its acquisition
by VTB threatened to topple Russia’s fifth-biggest lender.
Russia has issued an international arrest warrant for Borodin on
suspicion of abusing his authority in connection with a 12.8
billion-ruble ($438 million) corporate loan granted in 2009. He
denies any wrongdoing.  Bank of Moscow has conducted an investigation to determine
whether Borodin’s contract complied with Russian law, and the
findings have been sent to the Interior Ministry’s investigative
committee, the lender said in an e-mailed statement today.  Funds from the loan ended up in the personal account of
Yelena Baturina, wife of ousted Moscow Mayor Yury Luzhkov, the
Interior Ministry said Feb. 17 after police raided Baturina’s
company, ZAO Inteco. The Moscow government held a controlling
stake in Bank of Moscow that was acquired by state-run VTB.  Gennady Terebkov, a spokesman for Inteco, said April 6 that
he doesn’t expect a criminal case to be opened against Baturina
because she hasn’t done anything wrong. The loan to Baturina is
being repaid on schedule, Dolomanov said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  