-- 
Mexico Offers Refinancing Assistance for States, Infrastructure Funding

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   R o e d e r
-- 
2011-08-18T20:27:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/banobras-to-help-mexico-states-lower-rates-extend-maturities-kessel-says.html
Mexico ’s government will help states
refinance debt and offer financing and guarantees for companies
participating in infrastructure projects, officials said today.  Banobras , the national development bank for infrastructure
projects, will guarantee up to 50 percent of debt offered by
Mexican states to refinance existing debt, which has risen in
recent years and started to cause concern among government
officials, Chief Executive Officer Georgina Kessel said today
during an event in Mexico City..  “With the problems that some states and municipalities
face because of indebtedness and liquidity, Banobras has
designed a solution that allows them to improve their debt
profiles through financing with more favorable conditions and
longer terms,” Kessel said.  Deputy Finance Minister  Gerardo Rodriguez  said Aug. 11
that states’ debt represents 2.5 percent of the country’s $1.04
trillion gross domestic product and that the rising leverage has
raised “yellow warning signs.” States and municipalities owed
317 billion pesos ($25.8 billion) as of June, according to data
on the  website  of the  Finance Ministry .  The refinancing must meet conditions including maturities
of 20 years or less and a credit rating of at least BB- on a
local scale, Kessel said. The Banobras guarantee will give state
bond sales higher credit ratings, lower  interest rates  and boost
demand from institutional investors such as pension funds,
Kessel said.  Mexico will also offer guarantees to companies bidding on
infrastructure projects and contractors working with Comision
Federal de Electricidad, the state-run power company, Kessel
said.  Speaking at the same event, Finance Minister  Ernesto Cordero  said Mexico is investing 5 percent of its GDP in
infrastructure projects and transport costs have fallen as a
result.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Roeder in Mexico City at 
 jroeder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net  