-- 
Barclays Sees ‘Real Competition’ From China

-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 
2011-08-18T05:37:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/barclays-sees-very-real-competition-from-chinese-underwriters.html
Chinese securities firms are making
inroads in international  investment banking  markets, driving up
hiring costs and spurring tighter competition for deals, a
senior  Barclays Plc (BARC)  executive said.  “They’re very real competition; they absolutely win deals
and in many cases, they win deals that we would love to be in,”
said Matthew Ginsburg, Hong Kong-based head of investment
banking at Barclays in Asia, in an Aug. 16 interview. “On the
cost side, are they starting to be competitive for talent? In
many cases, they are absolutely.”  Ginsburg, 47, is leading the expansion of Barclays’
investment bank in Asia, where fees from advising on stock sales
and mergers have grown faster than in the U.S. and  Europe ,
powered by  China ’s and  India ’s expanding economies. Chinese
rivals like Citic Securities Co. and Haitong Securities Co. are
planning share sales in  Hong Kong  to raise money for hiring
bankers and expanding offices outside their home market.  Chinese securities companies are using Hong Kong as a
stepping stone for expansion outside China, where the government
requires foreign investment banks to team up with local partners
for stock and bond underwriting. Share-sale fees in the city
were 2.2 percent of the money raised last year, the lowest level
since at least 1999, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The fee
percentage has remained at that level in 2011, the data show.  Guosen Securities Co., this year’s biggest stock
underwriter in China, more than doubled the workforce at its
Hong Kong unit in 2011 and plans to rent more  office space  in
the city, the head of the unit, Lu Xiao Ning, said in July.  Equity Mandates  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , based in  New York , is the top
equity offering arranger in the Asia-Pacific region this year,
followed by Morgan Stanley, according to Bloomberg data. The two
firms dominate stock sales in Hong Kong, working on a combined
39 percent of deals by value. Two Chinese investment banks --
China International Capital Corp. and Bank of China
International Ltd. -- are among the top 10 stock underwriters in
the city, the data show.  Barclays is in 26th place in arranging Asia-Pacific equity
offerings. The U.K. bank has a “strong pipeline” of equity
fundraising deals, including convertible bonds, that have yet to
be completed, Ginsburg said. Chinese firms’ expansion in
international investment banking isn’t likely to drive fees
lower, he said.  Beijing-based CICC,  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s former partner,
ranks second this year in advising on mergers and acquisitions
involving Chinese companies, Bloomberg data show. China
Securities Co. and Citic Securities are also among the top 10
banks in that league table, which is led by Goldman Sachs.
Barclays is in fifth place, after advising GDF Suez SA’s $3.2
billion sale of its oil gas production and exploration unit to
China Investment Corp. this month, according to the data.  Venture Partner  London-based Barclays hired Ginsburg in 2009 from Morgan
Stanley to run its investment banking operations in the Asia-
Pacific region. Ginsburg, a 14-year Morgan Stanley veteran,
subsequently hired former colleagues including Ed King, who now
heads Barclays’ mergers advisory in Asia-Pacific.  The bank is searching for a joint venture partner in China,
Ginsburg said. Most of the biggest global investment banks --
including Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, Citigroup Inc. and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  -- either operate or are setting up local
joint ventures, allowing them to underwrite stock and bond sales
in the world’s fastest-growing major economy.  ‘Like Dating’  Ginsburg declined to say whether Barclays has narrowed
talks to a single potential partner, or give a timeframe for
reaching an agreement. Under Chinese rules, foreign firms can
own up to a third of the joint venture, limiting the scope for
achieving management control.  “The single most important thing you can do, given that
you’re a minority shareholder, is to find a really great
partner,” Ginsburg said. “And it’s kind of like dating. If you
spend more time really getting to know your partners, perhaps
doing deals together, making sure there’s been a lot of
extensive dialogue between the firms, then both parties will
feel a lot more comfortable about joining forces.”  Barclays Chief Executive Officer Robert Diamond’s push to
take on JPMorgan, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley in mergers
advisory and IPO underwriting increasingly hinges on  Asia , which
accounted for a record 22 percent of global investment-banking
fees last year, according to Freeman & Co.  The U.K. bank ranked eighth in worldwide in investment
banking fees last year, up from ninth in 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. JPMorgan and Morgan Stanley were the
biggest fee earners in 2010, the data show.  Mandarin Speakers  Barclays started mergers advisory operations in Asia in
2008 and began offering equity underwriting the year after. The
bank bought North American operations of bankrupt Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. during the financial crisis in 2008,
boosting its investment banking business in the world’s biggest
mergers advisory market.  The bank is “materially well down the path to where we
want to be,” in terms of expanding its investment-banking
workforce in Asia, Ginsburg said. He declined to give a figure
for how many employees he plans to add in the region.  “Every shop’s major concern is people -- investment banks,
at the end of the day, are people businesses,” he said. “For
example, given the expected continued growth in China-related
business, there is probably a shortage of really well-trained,
mandarin capable bankers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  