-- 
Baseball, Tim Pawlenty and Celebrity Politics: Stephen L. Carter

-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 
2011-08-18T00:02:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/baseball-pawlenty-and-celebrity-politics-commentary-by-stephen-l-carter.html
You might have missed the news that
several courthouse guards are being  investigated  for accepting
autographed baseballs from  Roger Clemens , one of the greatest
pitchers of the modern era, after his mistrial on charges of
lying under oath about steroid use.  This might seem like a minor offense, but it isn’t. Suppose
the guards were accused of receiving $200 in cash -- one
estimate of the resale value of the autographed baseballs.
Suppose further that the person handing out the bills happened
to be an accused drug dealer, whose case had similarly ended in
a mistrial. Presumably we would be outraged, and the story,
rather than crawling across the bottom of the screen on the
sports channels, would be leading the evening news.  But here is the trouble: Had the offer of a gratuity come
from the drug dealer, one assumes the guards would have rejected
it out of hand.  Why the difference? Because Clemens is a celebrity, and in
the presence of celebrity, people seem to believe it is
perfectly normal to act ridiculous -- if by ridiculous we mean
abandoning whatever notions of duty, morality and common sense
that ought to guide our judgment. Celebrities, too, have a
societal license to act ridiculous in their own presence, and
often do -- and, oddly, they often increase the value of their
celebrity as a result.  Much has been written over the years about why we follow
the doings of celebrities at all, and why we often become goofy
in their presence. Some theorists point to data suggesting that
celebrity worship fulfills a need formerly satisfied by
religious affection. Others, armed with brain scans, contend
that celebrities touch our romantic selves, so that our
irrationality around them is much like our irrationality around
our loved ones. Whatever the reasons, the effect of celebrity is
undeniable.  Most of the time, our silliness is harmless. Standing
alongside the barrier outside a night club or an awards show,
shrieking and swooning as the famous go by, might be a peculiar
way to expend energy, but it does no particular social damage.
In 1966, when  Willie Mays  hit the 535th home run of his career -
- making him, at the time, the greatest right-handed home run
hitter ever -- umpire Chris Pelekoudas  stepped up to shake his
hand  as he crossed home plate. Pelekoudas reported himself to
the league office for this act of partiality, and was told not
to worry about it.  But our love of celebrity can also cause terrible harm --
especially when the celebrity culture overflows its banks and
pollutes the roiling waters of our politics. In a democracy,
politics at its best is a serious business, calling upon all the
best traits of our character -- reflection, steadfastness,
courage, tolerance, compassion, determination. When we instead
conduct politics according to the rules of celebrity, we bring
into democracy all that is worst in our culture.  Politics of Celebrity  Last week former Minnesota Governor  Tim Pawlenty  dropped
out of the race for the Republican presidential nomination after
finishing third in the Iowa straw poll, a contest that few
voters can accurately describe. (Neither can many journalists,
evidently: You do not have to hunt far to find dueling stories
on whether, for example, anyone who shows up at the door can
vote.)  I am not a registered Republican, and I have no particular
brief for Pawlenty. But there is something troubling in the
media descriptions of the ex-governor’s failings -- that he
seemed  boring  on television, for example, or that he never
 connected with voters . (Not, of course, that there have been any
votes cast in the 2012 race yet.)  These criticisms are unrelated to the quality of his ideas,
or his capacity to think through tough issues and reach wise
decisions. They are, rather, the sorts of comments that a
Hollywood producer might make in explaining why a particular
actor just isn’t right for his upcoming film.  One sees a version of this battle being fought even today
over the legacy of  Ronald Reagan . What made him so successful
and popular a president?  To liberals, it was the power of his
communication skills, his ability to connect with voters; to
conservatives, it was the power of the ideas he was
communicating. I do not pretend to know the answer in Reagan’s
case, but I do think it is better for democracy if, in this
case, the conservative side is right.  The theory of self-governance rests critically on the
notion that we as citizens will take the time to inform
ourselves about the issues before making our choices.
Unfortunately, as the novelist John le Carre once noted, we tend
to punish making a good point badly, and reward making a bad
point well. It is style, not substance, that draws our
attention.  Triumph of Glibness  The culture of celebrity politics too often rewards the
mouthy, the glib and the outrageous, and hurts those who are
thoughtful. What becomes important is not being able to present
and defend good ideas, but having something succinct to say all
the time. If a political candidate answers a question by saying,
“That’s a tough one, I’ll have to consult with my advisers and
think it over,” we should be delighted; instead, we will
probably dismiss him as not ready to lead.  Abraham Lincoln 
possessed a reedy speaking voice and a distracting accent
associated at the time with the uneducated; in today’s politics,
he would be a miserable failure.  So much of the energy of the partisan is nowadays committed
to attacking, to sloganeering, to emoting. We all complain about
the raucous absurdity of much of the cable world, but enough
people tune in to keep the profits coming. Perhaps what appeals
to the viewer is not the battle of great ideas but the conflict
itself. Research cited by Daniel L. Wann and his collaborators
in their book “Sports Fans: The Psychology and Social Impact of
Spectators” suggests that at least among men, a contest becomes
more interesting if they know that the teams are bitter enemies.  Yet here one is reminded of the wisdom of Bertrand Russell,
who warned that if we never spend time alone with our thoughts,
we never have thoughts of our own; we only have other people’s
thoughts in our heads. Writing back in the 1930s, Russell argued
that we should work less hard, because the vapidity, as he saw
it, of popular entertainment was a function of our perpetual
exhaustion: We are too tired to think, and so choose to be
amused instead.  But if we take democracy seriously, we cannot let politics
become amusement. Self-governance is hard work, and a self-
governing people should require of its public debate more than
telegenic candidates mouthing snappy answers.  (Stephen L. Carter, a novelist, professor of law at Yale
and the author of “The Violence of Peace: America’s Wars in the
Age of Obama,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Stephen L. Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tobin Harshaw at 
 tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 