-- 
BHP Least Risky in Two Years as Profit to Jump to Record: Australia Credit

-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 
2011-08-18T23:42:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/bhp-least-risky-in-two-years-as-profit-to-jump-to-record-australia-credit.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s credit-default
swaps are Australia’s best performers this year as slower growth
at home and abroad boosts the allure of a company forecast by
analysts to report record annual profit next week.  The cost to insure the debt of BHP, the world’s largest
mining company, climbed 19 basis points this year through
yesterday, the smallest advance in the Markit iTraxx Australia
index of the 25 most-traded default-swaps on investment-grade
companies, CMA data show. The iTraxx Australia jumped 49 basis
points since Dec. 31, led by an average gain of 62 for the
nation’s four biggest lenders.  “BHP isn’t as affected as the banks by current market
weakness,” even though some of them “are rated higher,” said
Gus Medeiros, an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in Sydney. “It is
a very strong mining company with global operations, with a very
strong credit profile.”  The Melbourne-based miner will report record earnings Aug.
24 on increased production and prices buoyed by Chinese demand,
according to analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Swaps tied to the
company touched the cheapest relative to the iTraxx  Australia  in
almost two years on Aug. 12, less than a month after it
announced a $15.1 billion acquisition of Houston-based Petrohawk
Energy Corp. that may prompt BHP’s biggest-ever borrowings.  The extra yield investors demand to hold BHP’s $750 million
of 5.25 percent bonds maturing in 2015 rather than similar-dated
Treasuries shrank to 49 basis points yesterday, from 65 at the
start of the year, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  BHP credit-default swaps rose to 104.5 basis points as of
8:39 a.m. in Sydney and the iTraxx Australia gauge climbed to
161.5, according to National Australia Bank Ltd.  Petrohawk Bid  The cost of insuring BHP against a default has risen less
than the iTraxx Australia index even after its bid in July for
Petrohawk, a U.S. shale gas producer, the biggest all-cash
takeover by any Australian company.  Swaps on 29 mining firms globally have increased 51 basis
points this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Contracts on Rio Tinto Group, Australia’s second-biggest miner,
climbed 42 to 129, according to data provider CMA, which is
owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in
the privately negotiated market.  BHP, which also completed a $10 billion share buyback
program six months ahead of schedule in June, will probably
spend $180 billion by 2020 expanding mines, plants and oil
fields, Deutsche Bank analysts wrote in a report in July. BHP
approved $7.4 billion in  capital spending  in March to expand
production of  iron ore , the company’s biggest earner, in  Western
Australia ’s Pilbara region.  Earnings Rising  The producer of commodities from gold to oil, iron ore and
coal will say net income rose 77 percent to $22.6 billion in the
year ended June 30, according to the average of 18 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “The only reason their credit hasn’t blown out on the back
of those programs is it’s got such a strong balance sheet and
strong cash flow coming in, effectively funding a large part of
those programs through internal cash flows,”  Michael Bush , a
analyst at National Australia Bank Ltd., said by phone from
Sydney.  Australia, which skirted the global recession that followed
the 2008 global financial crisis, faces concern that its economy
is slowing. The local currency’s climb to a record and the
developed world’s highest benchmark borrowing costs have crimped
profits in tourism, retailing, education and manufacturing,
increasing the economy’s reliance on the biggest mining boom
since the 19th century gold rush.  Equities Drop  Global equity markets dropped over the past month as
reports showed the  U.S. economy , the world’s largest, grew in
the first half at the slowest pace since 2009 and after the
nation lost its top  credit rating .  Australian government and private reports this month have
shown weaker employment and  consumer confidence , intensifying
concerns the Australian dollar’s climb to a record high is
damaging those industries not directly tied to the nation’s
resources boom.  Unemployment last month jumped for the first time since
October 2010 to 5.1 percent, a government report showed Aug. 10.
 Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) , Australia’s largest airline, announced this
week 1,000 job cuts.  The Australian dollar reached $1.1081 on July 27, the
strongest level since exchange controls were scrapped in 1983.
The world’s fifth most-traded currency climbed 17 percent over
the past year and bought $1.0351 at 9:20 a.m. in Sydney,
compared with an average of 73.84 U.S. cents since 1983.  Planned Borrowings  BHP hired  Barclays Capital  in July to help raise about $7.5
billion in debt to finance the Petrohawk purchase, which would
be the company’s biggest borrowing, according to Bloomberg data.  Standard & Poor’s  said July 15 it will maintain BHP’s A+
credit rating because the company’s  cash flow  can support the
takeover of Petrohawk. Rio is rated A- by S&P, two levels lower.  The company may hold off on making bigger acquisitions
following the Petrohawk deal, said  Clarke Wilkins , an analyst at
Citigroup Inc. It also “could dampen near-term capital
management initiatives,” he said in a report on July 18.  The cost to insure Australian government debt has climbed
24 basis points this year to 74.2 basis points, reaching a two-
year high of 83.6 on Aug. 12 on concerns that debt crises in
 Europe  and the U.S. would derail a global economic recovery.  Australian  government bonds  extended their biggest rally
since 2008 this week. Yields on all maturities stayed below the
 Reserve Bank  of Australia’s cash rate today after falling to
that relative level this month for the first time in more than
two years.  Volatility, Uncertainty  The yield on the 5.5 percent note maturing in April 2023,
Australia’s longest-dated bond, dropped eight basis points to
4.44 percent, the lowest since the debt was sold May 18.
Benchmark 10-year bond yields also declined eight basis points,
or 0.12 percentage point, to 4.28 percent. The extra yield over
similar-maturity Treasuries was at 219 basis points, down from
this year’s high of 248 on Aug. 10.  “If the broader market was going to continue to weaken and
maintain the same level of volatility and uncertainty, BHP will
continue to outperform,” said Bush at NAB. “The mining sector
has been one of the few to retain any sort of strength in
earnings and BHP clearly has a particularly strong balance sheet
so it’s perceived as one of the most stable credits out there,
particularly through the sort of volatility that we’ve had.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at   rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  