-- 
Biden Meets China’s Xi to Build ‘Personal Relationship’

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-18T16:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/biden-meets-china-s-xi-jinping-to-build-personal-relationship-.html
U.S. Vice President  Joe Biden 
stressed the importance of the U.S. relations with China
yesterday during a meeting in Beijing with his Chinese
counterpart, Xi Jinping, as Xi emphasized the two governments’
common interests.  “There’s no more important relationship that we need to
establish on the part of the United States than the close
relationship with China,” Biden told Xi prior to a closed-door
meeting at Beijing’s Great Hall of the People. Biden added that
he hoped the “personal relationship” he has with Xi, who is in
line to lead China over the next decade, “will continue to grow
as well.”  In his remarks, Xi cited the two countries’ “common
responsibilities” and said it was “the joint desire of China
and the  United States  and elsewhere in the world to see a close
cooperation between China and the United States.”  Talks held later in private were sweeping in scope, candid,
direct and honest, administration officials who spoke on
condition of anonymity said. Biden brought up U.S. efforts to
rein in its deficit, and asked Xi for details on China’s push to
rebalance its economy away from exports, the officials said.
Biden told Xi that the U.S.-China relationship will determine
the progress of world economic growth, they said.  White House National Security Council Asia director Daniel Russel had earlier said that forging a personal relationship
with Xi, set to begin assuming the top posts from President and
Communist Party General Secretary Hu Jintao beginning late next
year, is important to ensure that the leaders of the world’s two
biggest economies can communicate.  The context for the meeting “is that we make a point of
sustaining regular and high-level contacts with Chinese leaders
as a way to ensure that we’re able to speak directly and speak
authoritatively about the entire spectrum of issues that we are
working on,” Russel told reporters in  Washington  on Aug. 15.  In Line  Xi, 58, was elevated to the ruling  Politburo Standing
Committee  in 2007 and assumed the vice presidency in March 2008.
He is following a succession trail blazed by Hu, 68, a decade
ago. Last year, Xi was appointed as a vice chairman of the
Communist Party’s Central Military Commission, which oversees
the  People’s Liberation Army  -- a post Hu held before assuming
the commission’s chairmanship in 2004.  In discussions that lasted more than an hour, the two vice
presidents also discussed  Afghanistan ,  Pakistan ,  North Korea  and
 Iran , the administration officials said. Biden, 68, called for a
broader and deeper dialogue, including between military and
security establishments, they said.  U.S. Politics  Xi asked Biden for details of the politics behind the deal
to raise the U.S. government’s debt ceiling, they said.  A day after Standard & Poor’s Aug. 5 downgrade of  U.S. debt 
to AA+ from AAA, China’s Xinhua News Agency issued a warning:
“The U.S. government has to come to terms with the painful fact
that the good old days when it could just borrow its way out of
messes of its own making are finally gone.”  Biden underscored the strength of the U.S. during his
meeting with Xi and said America can still lead the global
economy, according to the officials. He told Xi that moves to
strengthen the yuan and remove barriers to imports would help
the U.S. keep its open trade and investment policies with China,
the officials said.  Xi said China is determined to increase imports and move to
an economy led by consumption.  China ’s trade surplus surged to
$31.5 billion in July as exports rose to a record.  Biden later attended a dinner hosted by Xi at the Great
Hall of the People, which lies on the western end of Tiananmen
Square and is home to the country’s parliament.  U.S. Trip  Like Hu before him in 2002, Xi is scheduled to make an
official visit to the U.S. later this year or early next year.
He’s due to assume the leadership of the ruling Communist Party
late next year and the presidency in March 2013. If he sticks to
the script, he’ll hand the reins to his successor beginning in
2022.  Biden may find during his four days with Xi, which
culminates in a trip to a school rebuilt after a 2008
earthquake, he receives few insights into the future course of
Chinese policymaking and plenty of praise for Hu.  “Before a presidential election in the U.S., everyone
who’s even contemplating running for president spends 100
percent of his time announcing how he would change everything if
he was elected,” said  Kenneth Lieberthal , who held Russel’s
post under President  Bill Clinton . “In China, the incentives
are exactly the opposite. Your incentives are to do nothing
except praise what the current leaders are doing because they’re
the ones who decide whether you replace them.”  Powerful Father  Xi is the son of Xi Zhongxun, a former Communist Party boss
and governor of southern China’s  Guangdong Province . According
to the elder Xi’s official biography, he was responsible for
making the province a centerpiece for economic opening in 1979,
winning the endorsement of paramount leader  Deng Xiaoping . The
elder Xi died in 2002.  Before taking the vice president’s post, Xi served as
Communist Party secretary for  Shanghai  and prior to that held
the same post in Zhejiang, the second-richest province in China
in per-capita terms. Zhejiang is home to many of China’s most
successful private companies, including Wanxiang Group Co.,
whose chairman, Lu Guanqiu, met President  Barack Obama  at the
White House in January.  Xi holds a doctorate in law and a chemical engineering
degree from Beijing’s  Tsinghua University , Hu’s alma mater,
according to his official biography. He is married to a popular
singer who sang folk songs in the army during the 1980s.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Beijing at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  