-- 
Bidvest Spurns Foodservice Takeover Bids, Plans Acquisitions to Grow Unit

-- B y   V e r n o n   W e s s e l s   a n d   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 
2011-08-18T15:28:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/bidvest-decides-to-retain-its-foodservice-business-after-receiving-offers.html
Bidvest Group Ltd. (BVT) , a South African
company with interests from catering to cosmetics, spurned
unsolicited bids for its Foodservice unit and will expand the
business with purchases in  Egypt , the Baltic region and  Chile .  Bidvest shares fell 8 rand, or 5.2 percent, to 147 rand in
Johannesburg, where the company is based. It was the third-worst
performer today on the FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Industrials
Index, which dropped 2.9 percent to 30,823.33.  “This decision may be seen as one that leaves less clarity
over the Foodservice business, making its value less easy to
quantify,” said Chris Gilmour, an analyst with Absa
Investments, a unit of Absa Group Ltd. Even so, the “management
team has a good record in ensuring value is unlocked.”  Bidvest’s board completed a strategic review of Foodservice
and decided to retain the unit because it can expand its
existing business and make acquisitions, the company said in a
statement today. Bidvest said July 6 it was considering options
for Foodservice, its top revenue earner, after receiving offers
from unidentified bidders.  “In assessing the proposals the board strongly endorsed
the Bidvest business model and reemphasized that a demerger
shouldn’t take place if it is at the expense of critical mass
and financial strength,” the company said. While a sale would
have brought in “significant amounts of cash” in the short
term, it wouldn’t have supported the overall business structure.  South America   The acquisition of a food-service business in Chile marks
Bidvest’s first entry into the “high-growth South American
market,” Bidvest said, without giving further details on any of
the purchases it announced today.  Foodservice, which contributed 58.4 billion rand ($8.2
billion) to the company’s 109.8 billion rand in sales in the
fiscal year through June 2010, has operations in  Europe ,
 Australia  and  Asia . The unit may be worth as much as 25.9
billion rand, Macquarie First South Securities analysts Peter Steyn and David Smith said in a July 19 note, which identified
Clayton Dubilier & Rice and KKR & Co. and Sysco Corp. as
potential suitors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vernon Wessels in Johannesburg at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net ;
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net  