-- 
Black Scientists Less Likely to Secure U.S. Health Grants, Study Finds

-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 
2011-08-18T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/black-scientists-less-likely-to-secure-u-s-health-grants-study-finds.html
Medical researchers who are black
are about one-third less likely than their white colleagues to
win grants from the U.S. National Institutes of Health, a study
commissioned by the government found.  A white scientist had about a 29 percent chance of winning
the institutes’ primary grant, called an R01, of more than
83,000 applications from 2000 to 2006, said  Donna Ginther , an
economics professor at the University of  Kansas  in Lawrence,
Kansas, who headed the study published today in the journal
 Science . Black scientists comparable in experience, education
and other characteristics had about a 19 percent chance, she
said in a telephone interview.  Francis Collins , the institutes’ director, called the
findings “deeply troubling” and promised his agency would take
steps to level the odds for black scientists. Collins said he
would examine whether personal identification should be removed
from grant applications, including scientists’ names and
professional affiliations.  The 27  institutes , with a budget this year of about $31
billion, are the world’s largest single source of funding for
research on cancer,  heart disease  and infectious diseases such
as AIDS. Winning a grant from the institutes is all but
essential to the careers of biomedical scientists working in
academia, Collins said.  Blacks comprise about 13 percent of the  U.S. population ,
according to the census. They make up 2.9 percent of full-time
medical school faculty, Collins said, and about 1.2 percent of
“principal investigators” on NIH-funded research projects.  ‘Not Acceptable’  “This situation is not acceptable,” Collins said in a
conference call with reporters. The institutes have “failed to
recruit the best and brightest minds” and black scientists face
“an inequity of some sort in the ability to achieve grants from
NIH.”  The report’s findings reflect the lack of racial and ethnic
diversity in the field, said Clyde Yancy, chief of cardiology at
Northwestern Memorial Hospital in  Chicago . At any meeting of
scientists “you can identify very quickly that there is a
dearth of diversity among the audience and in particular those
presenting the important information,” he said in a telephone
interview.  “This doesn’t necessarily impugn the NIH or the review
process,” said Yancy, who is black and sits on grant oversight
boards for the institutes. “We need more qualified black
scientists entering the scientific workforce and we need greater
representation of especially young black scientists at all
focused research institutions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim in Washington at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  