-- 
Bloomberg Link Convenes Global Inflation Conference

-- B y  
-- 
2011-08-18T17:25:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/bloomberg-link-convenes-global-inflation-conference.html

Press Release  Features Experts Including Fernando Teixeira  Dos Santos ,
Portugal Minister of Finance; Goldman Sachs Partner and Chief
U.S. Investment Strategist Abby Joseph Cohen; and Dartmouth
College Economics Professor David Blanchflower  New York -- As Central bankers in the developed world take
unprecedented measures to support financial stability and
central bankers in the developing world struggle with the
challenges of inflation, Bloomberg LINK will convene leaders in
finance for the Bloomberg Global Inflation conference.  The event, to be held Thursday, September 8th at the 3LD Art &
Technology Center in New York City, will look at global
inflation in the wake of recent events, from protests over food
prices that ushered in the Arab Spring, to the U.S. debt crisis,
to  China ’s ongoing struggle to keep its economy under control.
Speakers will explore risks that investors need to consider such
as escalating food prices, energy demand, currency rates,
hyperinflation in emerging markets, and how global inflation
will impact The  United States .  “Many investors underestimate the risk of inflation because U.S.
price indices have been well-behaved,” says  James Rickards ,
Senior Managing Director, Tangent Capital Partners, who is
speaking at the event, “Investors need to understand that the
past is not prologue and price stability is on the knife-edge of
collapse.”  Rickards will join other experts to discuss this topic and more,
including  Laurence Meyer , Co-Founder and Senior Managing
Director, Macroeconomic Advisers, LLC. and Former Member, Board
of Governors of the  Federal Reserve System , who has said that
“the concern about inflation is overblown,” urging investors to,
“forget the 1970’s and early 1980’s.”  Additional key speakers include:  - David Blanchflower , Professor, Economics, Dartmouth College and
the University of Stirling; Former Member,  Bank of England ’s
Monetary Policy Committee  -Abby Joseph Cohen, Partner and Chief U.S. Investment
Strategist, Goldman Sachs  -James Grant, Editor and Founder, Grant’s Interest Rate Observer  -Donald W. Lindsey, Chief Investment Officer, Professorial
Lecturer in Finance, The George Washington University  -William Poole, Former President and Chief Executive Officer,
Federal  Reserve Bank  of  St. Louis   -Fernando Teixeira Dos Santos, Minister of Finance, Portugal  -Jerry A. Webman, Senior Investment Officer and Chief Economist,
OppenheimerFunds, Inc.  The conference is being sponsored by OppenheimerFunds, Inc.  For more information on the program and speakers, please visit:
 http://www.bloomberglink.com/inflation .  Follow us on  Facebook , LinkedIn and Twitter ( @BBGLINK ). The
hashtag for this event is #BBInflation.  For more information on Bloomberg, please visit
 http://www.bloomberg.com/about .  About Bloomberg LINK  Bringing the power of Bloomberg to the executive conference
business, Bloomberg LINK produces invitation-only, in-person
gatherings that combine world-class editorial programming with
peer-to-peer networking amongst the who’s who in influential
communities. In this environment, participants engage in open
discussions that lead to learning from each other’s expertise
and experience. For more information, please visit
www.bloomberglink.com.  About Bloomberg  Bloomberg, the global business and financial information and
news leader, gives influential decision makers a critical edge
by connecting them to a dynamic network of information, people
and ideas. The company’s strength--delivering data, news and
analytics through innovative technology, quickly and accurately-
-is at the core of the Bloomberg Professional service, which
provides real time financial information to more than 300,000
subscribers globally. Bloomberg’s enterprise solutions build on
the company’s core strength, leveraging technology to allow
customers to access, integrate, distribute and manage data and
information across organizations more efficiently and
effectively. Through Bloomberg Law, Bloomberg Government and
Bloomberg New Energy Finance, the company provides data, news
and analytics to decision makers in industries beyond finance.
And Bloomberg News, delivered through the Bloomberg Professional
service, television, radio, mobile, the Internet and two
magazines, Bloomberg Businessweek and Bloomberg Markets, covers
the world with more than 2,300 news and multimedia professionals
at 146 bureaus in 72 countries.  Headquartered in  New York ,
Bloomberg employs more than 13,000 people in 185 locations
around the world.  Contact for Bloomberg:  Angela Martin, +1 212 617-1211,  angelamartin@bloomberg.net 
