-- 
Bank of America Names Ron Sturzenegger Head of Unit Managing Foreclosures

-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-08-18T17:54:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/bofa-names-ron-sturzenegger-head-of-unit-managing-foreclosures.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the biggest
U.S. lender, named Ron Sturzenegger to stanch losses at its unit
managing about $1 trillion of shaky or soured home loans after
Terry Laughlin was promoted to chief risk officer.  Sturzenegger, 51, formerly global leader for the bank’s
real estate and gaming corporate and investment banking unit,
reports to Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  as head of
legacy asset servicing, according to a memo sent to employees
today. Laughlin starts as chief risk officer immediately, said
the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank, which announced his
promotion last month.  Moynihan, 51, is reshuffling his executives amid investor
concern about the rising cost of faulty mortgages acquired in
the 2008 takeover of Countrywide Financial Corp. In February,
the bank segregated about half of its loans into the legacy
unit, then run by Laughlin, who said managers were creating a
“classic good bank, bad bank structure.” Bank of America has
lost almost half its market value this year.  “Ron is a proven leader who brings deep credibility and
expertise in real estate to the Legacy Asset Servicing team,”
Moynihan said in the memo. “Terry has served our company and
our shareholders ably in an important assignment, and he will
continue to do so as chief risk officer.”  Billing, Collections, Foreclosures  Bank of America is the biggest U.S. servicer of home
mortgages, a business that handles billing, collections and
foreclosures. The legacy unit services about 7 million loans
that are either delinquent, defaulted or considered susceptible
to failure, with roughly $1 trillion in unpaid balances, said
 Dan Frahm , a bank spokesman.  Laughlin, 56, has run the legacy assets business for less
than a year, having been named to the post in February when the
unit was created. He left his job as CEO of Pasadena-based
OneWest Bank and joined Bank of America a year ago.  During his tenure, Laughlin helped Moynihan negotiate about
$13 billion in settlements with buyers and insurers of bonds
containing defective mortgages, including deals with  Fannie Mae 
and  Freddie Mac , Assured Guaranty Ltd. and a group of
institutional investors.  Bank of America is in talks to resolve state and federal
probes of shoddy foreclosure practices that may cost the
industry more than $20 billion, people with knowledge of the
negotiations have said. A settlement is probably still weeks
away, said one person.  Paula Dominick, who served as interim chief risk officer,
returns to her role as global compliance executive, according to
the memo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  