-- 
BofA Mortgage Risk May Rise $9 Billion If Judge Sides With MBIA

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 
2011-08-18T20:22:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/bofa-mortgage-risk-may-rise-9-billion-if-new-york-judge-sides-with-mbia.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  may face
billions of dollars more in liability for faulty mortgages if a
judge agrees with insurer  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  that the lender must buy
back loans even if the errors didn’t cause a borrower’s default.  If New York Supreme Court Justice Eileen Bransten and
judges in similar cases across the country  rule  that the issue
of “causation” doesn’t apply -- meaning it’s enough to show
that the loan was improperly made -- it “could significantly
impact” Bank of America’s potential costs, the bank said in a
 regulatory filing  this month.  Such court defeats may add as much as $9 billion to what
Bank of America owes bond insurers, according to hedge fund
Branch Hill Capital, which is betting against its stock and has
invested in MBIA. A victory for Armonk, New York-based MBIA may
also strengthen claims by mortgage-securities investors that
want the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank to pay more than
the $8.5 billion it’s offered them as a  settlement .  “You don’t have to wait until you’re in a severe accident
before you return the car with bad brakes,” said David Grais, a
partner in New York at Grais & Ellsworth LLP who represents
investors objecting to the bank’s proposed settlement with
Countrywide Financial Corp. mortgage-bond holders.  Hearing Today  Any ruling on the issue, which was to be the subject of a
hearing today in state court in  Manhattan , may come later than
anticipated because the proceeding was postponed until October.
The decision may intensify settlement talks between bond
insurers like MBIA and other banks that issued securities based
on faulty mortgages, according to the head of insurer  Assured
Guaranty Ltd. (AGO) , which is demanding money from lenders including
 UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG. (CSGN)   “If they lose that case, then our certainty of getting
reimbursed becomes a lot higher,” Dominic Frederico, Assured’s
chief executive officer, said in an interview. Bank of America
agreed in April to a deal it valued at $1.6 billion with
Hamilton, Bermuda-based Assured to settle its mortgage claims.  Since the start of 2010, Bank of America’s cushion for
future losses on repurchases of mortgages that never matched
their promised quality has  ballooned  from $4 billion to $17.8
billion even as it made payments in settlements with debt
guarantors such as  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , the government-
supported mortgage giants.  Bond Settlement  The bank set aside $14 billion last quarter to cover
claims, including the proposed $8.5 billion for the Countrywide-
bond settlement reached in June with investors including
BlackRock Inc., the Federal Reserve Bank of  New York  and Pacific
Investment Management Co. The deal is being challenged by other
bondholders and  attorneys general  in New York and  Delaware .  Its reserves and guidance on how much more it may need are
based on several assumptions, though, including the company’s
view that losses will only have to be reimbursed if it can be
proven “that the alleged representations and warranties breach
was the cause of the loss,” the bank said in the Aug. 4  filing 
with the Securities and Exchange Commission. If courts disagree,
“it could significantly impact” the estimate of as much as $5
billion in additional liabilities.  “It could change the playing field,” MBIA Chief Executive
Officer Jay Brown said on an Aug. 10 conference call with
analysts and investors when asked about the causation issue. It
could “have a very significant effect on the ability to rescind
or obtain rescissionary damages,” he said. “So, it can affect
the view of both parties as to the likely outcome of the
trial.”  ‘Wrong Now’  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for Bank of America, said in
an e-mail that Branch Hill Capital “consistently has overstated
Bank of America’s representation and warranty repurchase
exposure.”  “Their motives are not nuanced,” he said. “Less than a
year ago, they had estimated repurchase losses for Bank of
America of approximately $74 billion. They were wrong  then , and
we believe that they are wrong now.”  The company has provisions for all exposure that
“currently is probable and reasonably estimable,” he said.  In December, Bransten denied Bank of America’s bid to
prevent MBIA from using reviews of samples of loans in the case,
rather than requiring reviews of every individual mortgage in
dispute. The ruling may add to the threats facing Bank of
America by encouraging suits, according to the  SEC filing .  ‘Resources to Deploy’  Bank of America Vice Chairman Charles H. Noski said on an
October conference call that the bank had the “resources to
deploy” in “defending the interests of our shareholders”
through loan-by-loan fights. On the same call, he sought to
reassure investors that its losses would be minimized by
contract language specifying when the lender would be required
to repurchase faulty loans.  “Many of the losses observed in these deals have been, and
continue to be, driven by external factors, like the substantial
depreciation in  home prices , persistently high unemployment and
other economic trends, diminishing the likelihood that any loan
defect, assuming one exists at all, was the cause of the loan’s
default,” said Noski, then the bank’s chief financial officer.  Countrywide, the top-ranked mortgage lender acquired by
Bank of America in 2008, agreed to buy back loans when a
misrepresentation on loan documents “materially and adversely
affects the interests of the noteholders or the note-insurer in
those mortgage loans,” according to a prospectus for one of the
2006 deals involved in the MBIA case.  Merrill Lynch  Merrill Lynch & Co., which Bank of America bought at the
beginning of 2009, promised loan repurchases when a misstatement
“adversely and materially affects the value of the related
mortgage loan, prepayment charges or the interests of the
certificate holders,” according to  a 2006 bond agreement .  Only a handful of cases, almost all involving commercial
properties, have dealt with what such language means for breach-
of-contract claims. In those cases, courts reached decisions
with differing implications, said John Doherty, a lawyer in New
York with Atlanta-based Alston & Bird LLP.  Doherty, whose firm’s clients include Bank of America, said
both sides in loan-repurchase fights have reason to believe they
are right on whether proof of loss causation is necessary.
Contracts citing “the interests of noteholders” may be better
for debt sellers than those referencing the “value” of loans,
he said.  Loan Worth  Both types of language should be read as referencing
whether the loans would have been worth as much at the time of
the bond deal, if properly described, according to lawyers
including Grais, whose clients include  Federal Home Loan Banks 
and anonymous investors objecting to the Countrywide settlement.  In thinking about whether a misrepresentation led to a
default, courts may consider the fact that without faulty data,
“the loan wouldn’t have closed, or maybe would have closed but
at a smaller loan amount and thus a lesser loss” said Richard Barrent, president of Urbandale, Iowa-based Barrent Group, which
reviews defaulted mortgages for bondholders and insurers.  Mortgage-seller lawyers point to a case in federal court in
Dayton,  Ohio , involving commercial-mortgage securities, Wells
Fargo & Co. and Bank of America’s LaSalle Bank unit.  In a 2009 order, the court said “the fact that an investor
might have made a different decision had he or she had different
information may make that information material to the investor’s
decision, but it does not make the omission of that information
cause a material and adverse effect on the loan.”  ‘Shake Out’  Doherty said “when you start to have some uniformity in
court decisions on these points, you’re going to see how these
things shake out.”  Bank of America shares have declined 44 percent this year
through yesterday, leaving the stock 63 percent below its stated
book value amid investor concern that the lender’s mortgage
liabilities will continue to mount. Its shares fell 45 cents, or
6 percent, to $7.01 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading.  The cost to protect against a default by the bank soared
this month as investors flocked to credit-default swaps to guard
against market losses on the lenders’ debt. Five-year swaps on
Bank of America climbed to as high as 370 basis points last week
and traded at 330 basis points as of 3:57 p.m. today in New
York, according to prices from broker Phoenix Partners Group.
The contracts are up from 177.5 basis points at the end of July.  BofA Swaps  Bank of America swaps last week reached the widest-ever
compared with peers including JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Citigroup
Inc. The average credit swap for the six biggest U.S. banks was
190.5 basis points yesterday, according to data provider CMA.  Bank of America needs to set aside between $10.6 billion
and $44.4 billion more to cover losses on soured mortgages sold
to or insured by others, said Chris Gamaitoni, a Compass Point
Research and Trading LLC analyst.  MBIA’s lawyers at Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan LLP are
also arguing that insurance law should allow it to win against
Bank of America on breach-of-contract and fraud claims without
proving causation.  The causation issue alone may add $8 billion to $9 billion
of liabilities from bond insurers, said Manal Mehta, a partner
at Branch Hill Capital in  San Francisco .  “That is probably as important as the statistical sampling
ruling,” Mehta said. “It would take away one of Countrywide’s
key defenses and significantly accelerate the timetable for
litigation.”  Hard to Assess  Bank of America’s ultimate liability is difficult to assess
because the matter is likely to be settled, said Jonathan Hatcher, a credit strategist at Jefferies Group Inc. who covers
financial companies.  Bank of America is among lenders suing MBIA to overturn a
2009 split of the insurer that the bank said left the unit
guaranteeing mortgage bonds insolvent.  “The whole thing is literally a negotiation,” Hatcher
said of the multiple threads of litigation. “That makes it
difficult to assess what the number would be.”  Bank of America, in its talks with 22 of the world’s
largest debt investors, argued that any loan repurchase would
require loss causation be proven, according to a filing in New
York state court of an expert opinion by Brian Lin, a managing
director at RRMS Advisors. Those negotiations led to the
proposed $8.5 billion settlement.  Lin said a settlement between $8.8 billion and $11 billion
 would be reasonable , relying in part on an assumption that
investors would be successful in getting Bank of America to
repurchase only 40 percent of misrepresented loans. The investor
group had argued that they thought a success rate of 50 percent
to 75 percent was more reasonable, according to his opinion
filing.  BNY Mellon  Lin was hired by Bank of New York Mellon Corp., the bonds’
trustee that is seeking approval for the accord, to provide the
assessment, in which he said he didn’t take into consideration
Bank of America’s views on causation in his calculation. He
declined to comment.  If a loan was missing title insurance, it’d make no sense
to say that it shouldn’t be repurchased because a borrower
defaulted after losing his job, said Jonathan C. Wishnia, a
lawyer at Lowenstein Sandler PC in Roseland,  New Jersey , who
represents investment firms and loan servicers. The foreclosure
loss could be larger even if not caused by the mistake, he said.  Wishnia added that the outcome of the litigation may still
depend on the details of the contracts -- and how those may be
interpreted by the courts is unclear because such cases usually
settle out of court.  “That’s historical model, these things didn’t get
litigated that often,” he said.  The case is MBIA Insurance v. Countrywide Home Loans,
602825-08, New York State Supreme Court (New York County).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at   jshenn@bloomberg.net  and;
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at   sharrington6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 