-- 
Rousseff Loses Fourth Brazil Minister as Corruption Reports Topple Rossi

-- B y   M a r i o   S e r g i o   L i m a   a n d   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 
2011-08-18T14:52:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/brazilian-agriculture-minister-rossi-resigns-after-corruption-allegations.html
Brazilian Agriculture Minister
Wagner Rossi resigned amid corruption allegations, the fourth
top official to leave President Dilma Rousseff’s government in
less than three months.  Rossi, a member of Rousseff’s main coalition partner, the
Democratic Movement Party, or PMDB, resigned yesterday after
reports in Veja magazine that there was evidence of kickbacks
and embezzlement in the ministry. Milton Ortolan, the ministry’s
executive secretary, resigned Aug. 6 because of the reports.
Rossi will be replaced by lawmaker Mendes Ribeiro, the
presidency said in a statement today.  “During the past 30 days, I have faced daily a series of
false accusations, without any proof,” Rossi said in a letter
presented to announce his departure. “Finally, they started
attacking innocent people, my friends, my family members.”  Rossi’s resignation could further complicate Rousseff’s
relations with the governing coalition in Congress. The PMDB has
79 deputies in the 513-member lower house and 20 senators in the
81-seat upper chamber, while Rousseff’s Workers’ Party itself
has 86 and 13, respectively. The Party of the Republic, which
officially quit the coalition this week after former
Transportation Minister Alfredo Nascimento resigned last month,
has 40 deputies and six senators.  Government Leader  “I regret the minister couldn’t count on the principle of
presumed innocence,” Rousseff said in a statement distributed
to reporters in Brasilia yesterday.  Nelson Jobim, also from the PMDB, resigned as defense
minister Aug. 4 after criticizing members of Rousseff’s
government. Nascimento stepped down and Rousseff forced the
resignations of more than 20 officials at the Transport Ministry
after Veja reported kickbacks and over-billing at the agency,
which has an annual budget the size of  Paraguay ’s $18 billion
economy.  Rousseff lost a key ally June 7 when her chief of staff,
 Antonio Palocci , resigned following reports in the Folha de Sao
Paulo newspaper that he used his position to enrich himself by
serving as an intermediary for companies doing business with the
government. Palocci at the time said the accusations were
“baseless.”  Ribeiro, 56, is a lawmaker from the southern city of  Porto
Alegre .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mario Sergio Lima in Brasilia at 
 mlima11@bloomberg.net 
Alexander Ragir in  Rio De Janeiro  at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  