-- 
Brazil Rate Futures Plunge as Tombini Pledges to Reassess Global Outlook

-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 
2011-08-18T21:45:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/brazilian-rate-futures-tumble-after-tombini-pledges-to-reassess-outlook.html
Yields on  Brazil ’s most-traded
 interest-rate  futures contract plunged to a 10-month low after
central bank President Alexandre Tombini said policy makers will
“reassess” the global economic outlook amid increased concern
that worldwide growth is slowing.  Yields on the futures contract due in January 2013, the
most actively-traded today in Sao Paulo, tumbled 24 basis
points, or 0.24 percentage point, to 11.51 percent, the lowest
since October. Yields earlier fell as much as 30 basis points.  Investors are stepping up bets the central bank will lower
borrowing costs as soon as this month after concern about the
debt burdens of developed nations wiped trillions of dollars off
the value of equities and threatened to slow economic growth.
Tombini said on a conference call today that the situation has
worsened over the past months.  “This sanctions the market’s bet on an interest-rate
cut,” said Maristella Ansanelli, chief economist at Banco Fibra
SA in  Sao Paulo . “After the comments today, I think there’s a
chance” of an interest-rate cut in August, she said.  The rate futures show traders are betting that Brazilian
policy makers will cut interest rates by 50 basis points by the
end of the year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Slower
world growth is driving down commodities prices and curbing
inflation expectations, giving the bank more leeway.  The real weakened 0.7 percent to 1.5991 per dollar, from
1.5880 yesterday, as deepening concern the global economy is
weakening drove investors to sell higher-yielding assets.  Global Environment  Stocks sank and the yield on 10-year U.S. Treasury bonds
touched a record low after Morgan Stanley cut its forecast for
global growth this year to 3.9 percent from 4.2 percent, citing
an “insufficient” policy response to  Europe ’s sovereign debt
crisis, less confidence and the prospect of fiscal tightening.  “The global environment has become worse than a couple of
months ago,” Tombini said today. “This is a situation we will
have to reassess in our next monetary policy meeting.”  In its last meeting, the central bank’s outlook was that
slower growth would be “‘neutral or ambiguous” on domestic
inflation, Tombini said.  Inflation accelerated to 6.87 percent in July, the fastest
pace in six years, and the fourth straight month it has exceeded
the upper limit of its target range. The central bank has raised
its benchmark interest rate at all five of its policy meetings
this year to try to cool the economy.  The central bank targets inflation of 4.5 percent, plus or
minus two percentage points.  “Inflation is on a decreasing path,” Tombini said today,
adding that he expects consumer prices to drop about two
percentage points from September to April of 2012.  Brazilian Growth  Brazil’s economy shrank in June for the first time since
the global financial crisis of 2008. Economic activity, a proxy
for gross domestic product, fell 0.26 percent in June from the
previous month. The contraction was greater than the 0.05
percent median forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  The MSCI All-Country World Index of stocks fell 4.2 percent
at 4:30 p.m. as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index tumbled 4.5
percent and  Germany ’s  DAX Index (DAX)  plunged 5.8 percent. Oil, wheat
and copper declined on concern that slower economic growth will
weaken demand for raw materials. The yield on 10-year U.S.
Treasuries touched a record low of 1.9735 percent.  “The real is accompanying the movement abroad, the euro,
commodities are falling,” said Alfredo Barbutti, an economist
at Liquidez DTVM Ltda in Sao Paulo. “Commodities have a very
big importance in our international trade, so we are
suffering.”  Disagreement among European leaders on how to contain the
region’s sovereign debt crisis also is fueling investors’ flight
to U.S. Treasuries, Barbutti said.  European Debt  European leaders are trying to restore confidence in the
euro region as the sovereign-debt crisis that began in  Greece 
threatens Italy and  Spain . The 17-member currency bloc is split
on how far members should go to support its most indebted
nations.  “The attempts to manage this problem look weak,” Barbutti
said. “The crisis mode has returned again, this instability and
fear is growing that the situation is continuing the same,
nothing changed.”  The crises in countries struggling to re-establish
confidence in their debt mean that Brazil needs to retain its
fiscal stance “now more than ever,” even if the global
environment becomes “more challenging,” Tombini said.  “We need to treasure our fiscal position,” he said. “We
need to make sure that we are in the very same situation when
this new phase of the financial turmoil is over.”  Brazil Debt  Brazil’s net debt fell to 39.7 percent of gross domestic
product in June, from a post-crisis peak of 43.5 percent in
September 2009. The country’s debt-to-GDP ratio will continue to
fall, Tombini said.  “Tombini is clearly hoping that in case of crisis the
government will hold off from easing fiscal conditions this time
around and as a result pave the way for rates to fall,” said
 Gustavo Rangel , chief Brazil economist for ING Financial Markets
in  New York , in response to an e-mailed question. “This would
be a very favorable development, marking a key difference from
the previous crisis response.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  