-- 
Britons Facing Floodwaters May Be Left Without Insurance

-- B y   E d   B a l l a r d
-- 
2011-08-19T16:31:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/britons-facing-rising-floodwaters-may-be-left-without-insurance.html
Emma Summerfield returned home on a
rainy November evening in 2009 to find her vacuum cleaner afloat
on a rising tide in her cellar.  Hours later, her 18th century mill-house in Cumbria,
northern England, was six feet deep in water. When the water
receded, it left rooms wrecked, walls destroyed, and the sewage
of four nearby cottages everywhere.  “It’s just a house, but we’d put our heart and soul into
it,” Summerfield said in a telephone interview. “Trying to get
the house back together was absolute hell.”  After an insurance payout of about 90,000 pounds ($145,764)
from  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ’s Direct Line unit,
Summerfield, 36, was back in her home seven months later. Now,
because insurers are reassessing the viability of flood
insurance, thousands of future victims may not be so fortunate.  Direct Line and  Aviva Plc (AV/)  are among British insurers
threatening to tear up an agreement with the government that
commits them to cover high-risk properties, even after claims
rose threefold to 4.5 billion pounds in the last decade, because
the U.K. is cutting spending on flood defenses. Smaller insurers
not party to the so-called Statement of Principles are also
cherry-picking low-risk homes and undercutting rivals, according
to Aviva’s head of claims, Dominic Clayden.  “We’re not going to look to renew the Statement of
Principles -- it’s bust,” Clayden said in a telephone
interview. The market is being “dragged down” by new insurers
that haven’t signed up to the agreement, he said. He declined to
identify individual companies.  Aviva declined 2.1 percent to 315.3 pence in London
trading, compared with a 1.9 percent fall in the 28-member
Bloomberg Europe 500 Insurance Index.  Spending Cuts  Britain’s coalition government is engaged in the biggest
spending cuts since World War II to cut the country’s record
budget deficit. It will reduce spending on flood defense to
about 2.1 billion pounds over the next four years, from 2.36
billion pounds over the last four years, according to the
 Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs .  Government projects range from the construction of concrete
and metal barriers, to building pumping stations and replanting
forests in floodplains. One plan to build a 150 million-pound
barrier to protect the city of Leeds,  England  from the River
Aire, is now unlikely to be fully funded by the government,
according to the U.K.’s  Environment Agency . That means “we may
not be able to provide the same scale of defenses as originally
planned,” the EA said.  “Many schemes in areas at high risk will continue to
receive full funding from government, whilst others will receive
large contributions that will go a long way towards meeting the
amount needed,” DEFRA said in an e-mailed statement.  Risky Properties  Insurers agreed with the government in 2000 to cover
homeowners in flood-prone areas so long as the state pays for
measures decrease flood risk to ensure coverage is affordable
and widely available, according to the Association of British
Insurer, which lobbies for British insurers.  ABI members agreed to subsidize the insurance of risky
properties until June 2013 by charging homeowners in safer areas
more, according to the agreement. Homeowners in affected areas
only pay 42 percent of the true cost of their insurance,
according to data published by  Axa SA (CS)  last year.  “While in force to 2013, the Statement of Principles is
unsustainable for future use and was agreed under very different
circumstances,” said Kate Syred, home commercial director of
Direct Line in an e-mailed statement. “Since then our knowledge
of flooding risk and its management is more advanced.”  Insurers have told the government they don’t plan to renew
the Statement of Principles, said a DEFRA spokesman.  “We need to find a new mechanism to ensure that flood
insurance is still available,” he said.  High-Risk Areas  Too many homes are also being built in high-risk areas
without steps being taken to manage flood risk, according to
Aviva’s Clayden. Insurers paid out 4.5 billion pounds in flood
claims between 2000 and November 2010, according to the
 Association of British Insurers .  Britain’s planning regulations enable house-builders to
construct homes on flood-prone land. Between 12,000 and 16,000
new homes were built in areas of high flood risk annually in the
past decade, 10 percent of all new homes in the period,
according to the Committee on  Climate Change , a government
adviser.  The “government’s got to choose -- they can’t walk away
from this,” Clayden said. “I go to places called Water Meadow
Close and you think ‘what are you guys doing here?’”  The frequency and severity of floods hitting Britain is
increasing because of climate change, which has led to fiercer
rainstorms, increased river flows, and higher storm surges,
according to the  Environment Agency . More than five million U.K.
households are judged to be at moderate or significant risk of
flooding, according to the agency.  ‘Looming Crisis’  “This is a looming crisis,” said Jamie Reed, a lawmaker
for Cumbria for the opposition  Labour Party  in an e-mailed
statement. “Massive flood defense cuts have completely
distorted the insurance market for homeowners and businesses.
This could leave whole swathes of the country uninsurable and
thousands of properties unmortgageable.”  ABI members can refuse coverage for high-risk homes built
since 2009 or impose higher premiums. Emma Summerfield’s annual
premium doubled to 1,000 pounds since her home was flooded.  Nigel Allen, a 53-year-old director of a printing company
in Oxford, discovered he had to pay 1,400 pounds to insure his
house with  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ’s Halifax unit, compared
with 400 pounds for his old home with Aviva, after moving to a
new property that was flooded in 2007.  “The new insurance was a bit of a shock,” Allen said in
an interview. “Aviva weren’t interested.”  Contribute More  An agreement governing the management of flood risk is
still possible, according to  Ben Cohen , a London-based analyst
at Collins Stewart Hawkpoint Plc.  “Historically they’ve tended to find compromises on this
sort of thing,” said Cohen. “Maybe if the government would
contribute a bit more the industry would come round to providing
the coverage.”  Without a new arrangement many homeowners won’t be able to
afford insurance, ABI spokesman Malcolm Tarling said.  “The risk for our industry is that we reach 2013 and
there’s no agreement for how flood risk will be managed
centrally,” said Tarling. “Then there could be issues around
the availability and affordability of flood insurance for people
at highest risk.”  To contact the writer on the story:
Ed Ballard in London at 
 eballard2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  