-- 
California Gasoline Extends Gain in Last Cycle of August Trading

-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 
2011-08-18T21:08:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/california-gasoline-extends-gain-in-last-cycle-of-august-trading.html
California-blend gasoline in  Los
Angeles  extended its highest premium to futures since May as the
last cycle for August delivery nears an end.  Carbob in Los Angeles strengthened 8.12 cents to a premium
of 9 cents above gasoline futures traded on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  at 4:04 p.m. East Coast time, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The fuel gained 9.13 cents to
futures yesterday, reaching the highest premium since May 6.  San Francisco  Carbob strengthened 6 cents to a premium of
10.5 cents over futures. Bay Carbob has strengthened 19 cents
this week, fueling speculation that refiners in Los Angeles are
buying products off the market.  “No idea who or what is driving it,” said Bob van der
Valk, an independent fuel pricing analyst in Terry,  Montana ,
said. “LA Carbob is thinly traded and one deal throws off the
differential with the Nymex.”  Carbob production fell 4.2 percent and inventories of motor
gasoline dropped 5.5 percent in the week ended Aug. 12 from a
week earlier, the state Energy Commission said.  The premium for conventional, 87-octane gasoline in
Portland, Oregon, narrowed 3.38 cents to a premium of 7.5 cents
to futures. The fuel reached its highest premium in almost 10
months Aug. 16 after three Washington state refineries reported
equipment upsets.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  reported a sulfur recovery unit trip
at its Anacortes refinery Aug. 15,  ConocoPhillips (COP)  reported an
alkylation unit upset at its Ferndale refinery that same day and
and  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  shut a boiler at its Anacortes refinery after a
steam leak Aug. 14.  “Other units in the refinery continue to operate and
product supply to our customers is not affected by the CO Boiler
shutdown,” Dan Riley, a Tesoro spokesman in San Antonio, said
in an e-mail today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  