-- 
Californians Can’t Claim Billed Costs in Injury Lawsuits

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-08-18T18:50:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/californians-can-t-claim-billed-costs-in-injury-lawsuits-1-.html
Californians suing over personal
injuries can only seek damages for actual, rather than billed,
medical expenses, the state’s high court  said  today.  Allowing plaintiffs to recover billed medical costs rather
than the lower fees from negotiated rates between health
providers and insurers could have cost insurance companies
billions of dollars and driven up insurance rates for consumers,
Allstate Insurance Co. said in court filing in the case. The
company wasn’t a party in the case.  “This is one of the biggest issues to hit California
consumers in years, and few people were aware” of the case,
said Robert Tyson, an attorney for Hamilton Meats & Provisions
Inc., the defendant in the lawsuit decided today. “Rates for
insurance were going to go up if the court had ruled the other
way.”  Rebecca Howell sued Hamilton Meats after she was seriously
injured in a car accident with a company driver. A trial court
reduced her damages to the amount actually paid by her medical
care providers.  A state appeals court in  San Diego  reversed the ruling,
saying it violated a legal rule that disallows reducing damages
for compensation a plaintiff has received from sources other
than the defendant. Hamilton Meats & Provisions Inc. appealed
and insurance groups and companies including Allstate sought
reversal of the appeals court ruling.  “The ruling drastically rewrites a century of California
law that says plaintiffs can recover the reasonable value of
their damages,” Gary Sims, an attorney for Howell, said in a
phone interview.  The case was sent back to the appeals court for further
proceedings.  The case is Howell v. Hamilton Meats, S179115, California
Supreme Court, San Francisco.  To contact the reporter about this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  federal court
at   kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: 