-- 
Canadian Currency Weakens as Slowdown Concern Saps Equities, Commodities

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-08-18T21:26:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/canadian-currency-weakens-as-equities-tumble-before-reports-on-inflation.html
Canada ’s dollar fell the most in
more than a week as stocks plunged on concern the global economy
is slowing, damping demand for higher-yielding assets.  The currency extended its monthly loss versus the greenback
before consumer-price index data tomorrow forecast to show
Canada’s annual rate of inflation slowed. The yield on the
Canadian 10-year note slid to a record low 2.254 percent. Bank
of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  and Finance Minister Jim Flaherty
are scheduled to brief lawmakers tomorrow on the economy.  “We have a big day in Canada tomorrow with CPI and Carney
speaking,” said  Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at
Bank of Nova Scotia, by phone from Toronto.  “Canada will end
up as a mid-performer today as the market anticipates what
happens tomorrow.”  The Canadian currency fell against 10 of its 16 most-traded
counterparts, weakening 1 percent to 99.05 cents per  U.S. dollar 
at 5 p.m. in Toronto, compared with 98.07 cents yesterday. It
was headed for a 3.6 percent loss in August, the most since June
2009. One Canadian dollar purchases $1.0096.  Government bonds  rallied, with 10-year yields dropping as
much as 13 basis points, or 0.13 percentage point, to the lowest
level since the beginning of Bloomberg records in 1989. The
price of the 3.25 percent securities maturing in June 2021
gained 80 cents on the dollar to C$108.30.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 4.5 percent. The
S&P/TSX Composite Index decreased 3.1 percent. Crude oil for
September delivery plunged as much as 7.3 percent to $81.15 a
barrel in New York trading. Copper and wheat also fell, and gold
futures advanced to a record.  ‘Ongoing Uncertainty’  “The catalyst is coming from ongoing uncertainty in global
markets,” said  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign
exchange at  National Bank of Canada , by phone from Toronto.
“Equities are lower, as the yen and the U.S. dollar are higher.
The Canadian dollar is following the flow.”  Canadian consumer prices rose 2.8 percent in July from a
year earlier after a 3.1 percent gain in the previous month,
according to the median forecast of 23 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey.  Statistics Canada  releases the report at 7 a.m.
tomorrow in Ottawa.  “Canada will be looked at tomorrow in light of CPI, and
Carney testifying before parliament,” Spitz said. “The fact
that  futures markets  have priced in rate cuts rather than hikes
will be scrutinized.”  Biggest Trade Partner  First-time jobless claims in the U.S. climbed in the week
ended Aug. 13 to 408,000, the highest level in a month, Labor
Department figures showed. Consumer prices excluding food and
fuel costs increased 0.2 percent in July, the slowest pace since
April, the Labor Department also reported. The U.S. is Canada’s
biggest trading partner.  In the U.S., Federal Reserve Bank of New York President
William C. Dudley said the central bank always keeps an eye on
the performance of U.S. and foreign banks, not monitoring one
group more than the other. The Fed is “always scrutinizing”
domestic and foreign banks in terms of capital levels, Dudley,
58, said in response to audience questions after a speech today
in  Newark ,  New Jersey .  The Wall Street Journal earlier reported the New York Fed
was stepping up scrutiny of U.S. operations of  Europe ’s largest
banks on concern the euro-region debt crisis may lead to funding
problems. The newspaper cited people it didn’t identify.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax, Nova Scotia, at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  