-- 
McClellan Says Avoid Stocks Until October: Technical Analysis

-- B y   L u   W a n g
-- 
2011-08-18T11:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/mcclellan-says-avoid-stocks-until-october-technical-analysis.html
Investors should avoid U.S. stocks
because the retreat in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index won’t be
over until October, said Tom McClellan, editor of the McClellan
Market Report.  The magnitude of the market’s decline since July and the
effect on investor sentiment make a sustained rebound unlikely,
said McClellan, who started publishing the newsletter in 1995
with his father Sherman, creator of the McClellan Oscillator and
Summation Index designed to measure market momentum. The
McClellan reading on New York Stock Exchange-traded securities
plunged to minus 438 last week, the lowest level since 1926,
according to McClellan.  “Usually a decline won’t end on the biggest downward
acceleration day,” McClellan said in a telephone interview
yesterday from Lakewood,  Washington . “When you have a more
violent sell-off like the one we just saw, you nearly always
retest the lows,” he said. “Between now and October, it’s not
a good time to be bullish on stocks.”  The  S&P 500  slid 16 percent in the 10 days ended Aug. 8,
the most since November 2008, and reached an 11-month low as
concern grew  Europe ’s debt crisis is spreading and the  U.S.
economy  may relapse into a recession. Still, newsletter writers
and individual investors haven’t yet grown more bearish. Some
analysts who study charts view growing pessimism as a signal to
buy because investors have sold shares and may be looking to
purchase stocks again.  Bears Hold Steady  The proportion of newsletter writers who are bearish on
equities stayed the same at 23.7 percent in the week ended Aug.
16, compared with 24.7 percent at the beginning of the month,
according to reports from New Rochelle, New York-based Investors
Intelligence.  The latest weekly survey from the  American Association  of
Individual Investors showed bears dropped to 44.8 percent of the
respondents from 49.9 percent while bulls increased to 33.4
percent from 27.2 percent.  “We need to turn more people to a bearish outlook,”
McClellan said. “That’s part of the work that the stock market
has to do in this corrective period -- get everyone feeling
bearish and thinking the sky is falling. Once it does that, then
the market can start a new uptrend.”  The McClellan Oscillator is a market-breadth indicator
based on the moving average of the number of rising and falling
stocks. Tom McClellan said he discusses the market with his
father every day.  He became pessimistic on the market on June 1, when the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  failed to hold above its average in the
past 50 days. Since then, the gauge has dropped 7.2 percent.  While the market may stage a year-end rally, investors
should hold off buying stocks until the current retreat is over,
McClellan said. He estimates that will occur in October.  “Just like a bungee jumper bouncing off a bridge, that
doesn’t mean you’re done with the downward movement,” he said.
“Starting in October, I expect a rally to come strongly until
the end of the year. Now is not the time to jump in and catch
that rally. There will be time later.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  