-- 
Chavez Emptying Bank of England Vault as Venezuela Brings Back Gold Hoard

-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l   a n d   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 
2011-08-18T21:07:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/chavez-emptying-bank-of-england-vault-as-venezuela-brings-back-gold-hoard.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
ordered the  central bank  to repatriate $11 billion of gold
reserves held in developed nations’ institutions such as the
 Bank of England  as prices for the metal rise to a record.  Venezuela, which holds 211 tons of its 365 tons of gold
reserves in U.S., European, Canadian and Swiss banks, will
progressively return the bars to its central bank’s vault,
Chavez said yesterday.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC) , and
 Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  also hold Venezuelan gold, he said.  “We’ve held 99 tons of gold at the Bank of England since
1980. I agree with bringing that home,” Chavez said yesterday
on state television. “It’s a healthy decision.”  Chavez, whose government depends on oil for 95 percent of
its export revenue, is looking to diversify  Venezuela ’s cash
reserves from U.S. and European banks to include investments in
emerging markets including  Brazil ,  China ,  India ,  Russia  and
 South Africa , central bank President Nelson Merentes said
yesterday. The world’s 15th-largest holder of gold is bringing
back its gold after a 28 percent rally in the price this year.  Venezuela’s reserves stood at $28.6 billion on Aug. 16.
Finance Minister  Jorge Giordani  said that the weakening U.S.
dollar, a near-default by the U.S. government and the European
sovereign debt crisis threaten Venezuela’s savings and they will
be more secure at home and in “allied” countries.  ‘Green Light’  Chavez, speaking by phone on state television last night,
said he signed the document yesterday authorizing the transfer
of the  gold reserves . “I said, ‘I give my absolute approval to
this idea’,” Chavez said. “I gave it the green light.”  The central bank already has about $7 billion of gold in
its vaults. Of the country’s liquid reserves, which amount to
about $6.3 billion, 59 percent are held in Switzerland, 18
percent in the U.K and about 11 percent in the U.S., according
to a government report.  Venezuela received a capital gain of $9.3 billion on its
gold holdings since 2009 on rising prices, according to a Bank
of America Merrill Lynch report today.  The country’s share of gold reserves is almost eight times
the region’s 8.3 percent average and leaves Venezuela vulnerable
to sharp declines in prices while holding illiquid assets, the
report said.  The government may move to repatriate reserves before
arbitration case rulings to avoid a so-called attachment risk
that could freeze international assets,  Boris Segura , a New
York-based strategist at Nomura Securities, said in a research
note.  The repatriation and diversification of reserves may also
cloud transparency of government holdings, which would be a
negative for the country’s credit, he said.  Lack of Transparency  “We sense that Venezuelan debt prices already incorporate
a sizeable ‘lack of transparency’ premium,” Segura said.
“However, looking at the possible geopolitical signals that
these proposed policies communicate, we fear that Venezuelan
bond prices may suffer.”  In all, Venezuela has 365.8 metric tons of gold reserves,
according to the World Gold Council.  Chavez’s decision could have “worrisome” implications
because of less data transparency and the threat that the gold
stock could be used for politically motivated spending before
next year’s presidential elections, RBS Securities Inc. said.  “It is clear that the motivation appears mostly to fit a
political agenda to align with strategic political partners and
retaliate against the recent U.S. sanctions on fears that assets
might at some point be frozen,” RBS Latin American analysts
Felipe Hernandez and Siobhan Morden said in a note.  Borrowing Costs  Venezuela has the highest borrowing costs among major
emerging-market countries. The extra yield investors demand to
own Venezuelan  government bonds  instead of U.S. Treasuries rose
50 basis points, 0.50 percentage point, to 1,239 basis points
today at 4:35 p.m. in  New York , according to JPMorgan & Chase
Co.’s EMBI+.  Yields on the government’s benchmark 9.25 percent bonds
maturing in 2027 rose 60 basis points to 14.14 percent at 4:35
p.m. in New York, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
price fell 2.88 cents on the dollar to 69.25 cents.  Chavez also said yesterday that he’s preparing a decree to
nationalize the gold industry to halt illegal mining and
dedicate local production to building up reserves.  Mining Arbitration  Of 17 arbitration cases  pending  against Venezuela in the
World Bank’s International Centre for Settlement of Investment
Disputes, at least three of them are over mining ventures,
including  Crystallex International Corp. (KRY) , a Canadian gold
producer whose Las Cristinas mine was taken over by the
government in February.  Gold Reserve Inc. (GRZ) , a Spokane, Washington-based mining
company, is seeking $2.1 billion in damages after its Las Brisas
gold and copper project was seized in May 2008.  “Today’s announcement is not surprising,” Doug Belander,
Gold Reserve president, said yesterday in an interview. “We
believe that their objective all along was to take over the
entire industry.”  The South American country, in an effort to boost stalled
production and take advantage of rising prices, last year
relaxed restrictions on gold exports to allow some companies and
joint ventures with the government to send as much as 50 percent
of their output abroad.  Rusoro’s Operations  Rusoro Mining Ltd. (RML) , a Vancouver-based mining company, is
the last publicly traded gold mining company operating in
Venezuela. The company’s stock rose 12 percent to 14 Canadian
cents as of 4:35 p.m. in Toronto, after yesterday plunging 17
percent to its lowest in almost a decade.  Rusoro Chief Executive Officer Andre Agapov said today that
it hadn’t received any indications from the Venezuelan
government that its projects in the country would be affected.  “We believe the government’s announcement is targeted
toward the many illegal mining operations in Bolivar state,”
Agapov said in a statement.  Venezuela produces 11 metric tons of gold a year, and
illegal miners extract an additional 10 to 11 tons a year,
Chavez said in May.  Venezuela’s National Guard first seized control of the Las
Cristinas mine, which has reserves of about 27 million ounces,
in November 2001 from  Canada ’s Vanessa Ventures.  Gold futures for December delivery rose $32.90, or 1.8
percent, to a record settlement of $1,824.10 an ounce on the
Comex in New York today.  “If there isn’t enough room to store the gold in the
central bank vaults I can lend you the basement of the
Miraflores presidential palace,” Chavez said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net ;
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  