-- 
Valencia Shuns $36 Million Chelsea Bid for Mata, Mail Says: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-08-18T07:33:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/chelsea-has-36-million-bid-for-mata-rejected-mail-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Mata Bid Made  Chelsea had a 22 million-pound ($36 million) bid for
Valencia winger Juan Mata rejected by the Spanish club, the
 Daily Mail   reported .  The offer, which comprises 18 million pounds up front and 4
million pounds to follow, was made by Chelsea owner  Roman Abramovich  yesterday, the newspaper said. Mata is keen on a move
to  London  and has been promised a pivotal role, a pay rise and
the No. 10 shirt by the Blues, the Mail added.  $43 Million Wanted  Valencia is pushing for a fee of 30 million euros ($43
million) before it releases Mata, who joined Luka Modric and
 Raul Meireles  as a target for Chelsea, the Guardian  reported .  That figure would be within the reach of Chelsea, which has
moved ahead of Premier League rivals Arsenal and Tottenham in
the pursuit of the 23-year-old, the Guardian said.  Redknapp Ruminates  Tottenham manager  Harry Redknapp  said although he wants to
keep Modric, selling the Croatian midfielder would enable him to
add as many as four players and have a stronger team, the  Daily
Telegraph   reported .  “They are your options,” the Telegraph cited Redknapp as
saying. “You either sell him, get the money and bring four
players in and have a better team in all honesty. Or you keep
Luka, who’s a fantastic player.”  Players-Plus-Cash  Liverpool manager Kenny Dalglish is close to agreeing a
players-plus-cash deal to sign Bolton defender Gary Cahill, the
Sun  reported .  Dalglish, who faces competition from Arsenal, is set to
offer 10 million pounds plus striker David Ngog and teenage
forward Raheem Sterling on loan to clinch Cahill’s signature,
the Sun said.  Marquee Parker  Tony Fernandes , Queens Park Rangers’ prospective owner,
will try to make West Ham midfielder Scott Parker an 8 million-
pound marquee acquisition once he takes control of the London
club, the Telegraph  reported .  Fernandes, chief executive officer of AirAsia Bhd., is also
set to bid 3 million pounds for Manchester City defender Nedum
Onuoha as he attempts to improve the squad before the transfer
window closes, the Telegraph said.  Bid Made  QPR made a 4 million-pound bid for Parker last night,
though will need to double the offer to secure the England
midfielder, the Daily Mirror  reported . West Ham also wants to
offload Carlton Cole, with Fulham manager  Martin Jol  said to be
an admirer of the striker, the Mirror added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  