-- 
Chile May Keep Rate for Second Month as Inflation, GDP Slow

-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 
2011-08-18T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/chile-may-keep-rate-for-second-month-as-inflation-gdp-slow.html
Chile ’s central bank probably will
keep its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged for a second straight
month after consumer prices rose less than expected and economic
growth slowed in the second quarter.  The five-member board, led by bank President Jose De Gregorio, will keep the overnight rate at 5.25 percent today,
according to all 21 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The bank
paused last month after raising borrowing costs faster in 2011
than any other rate-setting country tracked by Bloomberg other
than Belarus.  The highest interest rates in more than two years have
helped rein in  consumer spending  and slowed inflation in  South
America ’s fifth-biggest economy, giving policy makers leeway to
keep borrowing costs unchanged as they weigh the threat posed by
slowing global growth.  Peru ’s central bank kept its benchmark
rate unchanged Aug. 11, and traders in  Brazil  are betting that
Brazil’s central bank will pause Aug. 31 after raising rates at
five straight meetings.  “There’s too much uncertainty to continue hiking,” Katia Diaz, Latin America economist at 4Cast Inc. in  New York , said
yesterday by telephone. “Now they’re just in a wait-and-see
mode, waiting for domestic developments, external
developments.”  As Chile’s $200 billion economy rebounded from recession
last year, the central bank raised its overnight rate 13 times
in 14 months before voting to hold at their July 14 meeting.  ‘Come to an End’  Since then, the July consumer price report showed monthly
inflation rose 0.1 percent, which was half as fast as analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg expected. The annual rate fell below the
mid-point of the central bank’s target range of 2 percent to 4
percent for the first time since February.  Traders and investors surveyed every two weeks by the
central bank lowered their 12-month inflation forecast to 3
percent, down from 3.7 percent at the end of May, according to
the median estimate of 60 forecasts published Aug. 10.  The survey also showed that traders expect policy makers
will hold interest rates at 5.25 percent for at least two more
years. The previous survey showed rates climbing to 5.75 percent
by February next year and remaining at that level through at
least August 2013.  Among  Latin America ’s five major inflation-targeting
central banks, Chile has the second-highest real interest rate
after Brazil.  “The Chilean central bank’s tightening cycle may have come
to an end,” Leonardo Suarez, chief economist at Santiago-based
brokerage Larrain Vial SA, said in an Aug. 16 report. “From the
third quarter of this year through the first half of next, signs
of deceleration in demand and GDP will be felt -- with
strength.”  ‘Global Economic Panorama’  Chile’s three-month interest rate swap rates, which reflect
traders’ views of future rate decisions, fell 11 basis points to
5.19 percent on Aug. 8 from Aug. 5 after  Standard & Poor’s 
lowered the U.S. credit rating.  The South American country’s benchmark stock index, the
IPSA Index, plunged 6.9 percent over the same period.  Chile’s economy, estimated by the central bank to grow 6
percent to 7 percent this year, likely will feel the impact of a
weaker global outlook,  De Gregorio  said in an interview with
Santiago-based newspaper La Tercera, published Aug. 14.  “The global economic panorama will be weaker than we
expected some months ago,” he said, according to the newspaper.
“That obviously affects us, because we’re an economy that’s
integrated with the world.”  Second Half  Domestic growth will slow to an annual rate of 4.5 percent
in the second half of this year after expanding an estimated 8.1
percent in the six months through June, Larrain Vial’s Suarez
said.  Retail sales growth slowed to 9.9 percent in the three
months through June from the same period a year earlier, down
from 16 percent in the first quarter, according to calculations
made by Bloomberg based on data from the National Statistics
Institute.  Gross domestic product increased 9.8 percent first quarter
from last year before decelerating to 6.5 percent in the three
months through June, according to the median estimate of 18
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The central bank today is scheduled to publish second-
quarter GDP data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  