-- 
Chile Central Bank Keeps Rate at 5.25% as Inflation, Economy Start Slowing

-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 
2011-08-18T22:25:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/chile-central-bank-keeps-rate-at-5-25-as-inflation-economy-start-slowing.html
Chile ’s central bank kept its
benchmark interest rate unchanged today for the second straight
month after inflation and economic growth slowed and
international price pressures moderated.  The five-member board, led by bank President Jose De Gregorio, held the overnight rate at 5.25 percent, matching the
forecast of all 21 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Today’s rate pause is the third by the central bank this
year and leaves Chile with second-highest real interest rate
among  Latin America ’s five major inflation-targeting central
banks after  Brazil . The central bank today omitted language seen
in last month’s statement on the possibility of raising
borrowing costs.  “Future changes to the monetary policy rate will depend on
the implications of internal and external macroeconomic
conditions on inflationary perspectives,” policy makers said in
a statement accompanying today’s decision.  Since policy makers met last month, the deterioration of
the global economy has pushed commodity prices lower, reducing
inflationary pressures in the $200 billion economy, Juan Pablo Castro, chief economist at  Banco Santander  in Santiago, said
yesterday.  “The bank already has done its job, basically raising
interest rates to relatively neutral levels,” said Castro, who
correctly forecasted today’s pause.  The central bank probably will keep rates on hold for the
remainder of the year, he said in a telephone interview,
matching the median forecast of 60 traders and investors in an
Aug. 10 central bank survey.  Global View  The central bank in today’s statement noted an economic
slowdown in the U.S., lower global commodity prices and
heightened concern about financial risk in Europe.  The U.S. on Aug. 5 had its AAA credit rating downgraded for
the first time by  Standard & Poor’s , and the U.S. Federal
Reserve on Aug. 9 pledged to keep rates at a record low through
at least mid-2013 to revive a recovery that it said has been
“considerably slower” than anticipated. Investor concern has
also mounted over debt sustainability in  Europe .  Chile’s benchmark stock index, the IPSA Index, plunged 6.9
percent from Aug. 5 to Aug. 8, the first day of trading after
S&P announced the downgrade.  The peso this month has declined 2.7 percent, the third-
worst performance against the dollar among Latin America’s
seven-most traded currencies after  Mexico ’s peso and Brazil’s
real. In trading today, it declined 0.8 percent to 470.41 per
dollar.  `Recent Events'  “Recent events will probably make the central bank less
eager to hike,” Florencia Vazquez, an economist with BNP
Paribas, said in an Aug. 17 note to investors. In the last
month, “the global outlook has deteriorated further and
uncertainty about the world’s growth prospects has increased
visibly.”
  Traders in a central bank survey published Aug. 10 forecast
that the bank will pause at least through August 2013 while
inflation holds at 3 percent. Annual inflation in July slowed to
2.9 percent, below the central bank’s target of 3 percent for
the first time since February.  Monthly inflation slowed to 0.1 percent in July from 0.2
percent in June and 0.4 percent in May on a decline in clothing,
transport and communication prices.  Expectations  Inflation expectations have shown a “significant”
decline, the central bank said today.                                          Economists surveyed by the central bank on Aug. 9 lowered
their annual inflation estimates for year-end to 3.6 percent
from 4 percent in the July 11 survey.  “News on the international front -- principally the fall
in the price of oil -- and the significant adjustments in
 interest rates  led to a strong decline in different measures of
inflation expectations,” central bank economists said in a
report published yesterday.  The price of crude oil has declined 15 percent in the last
month while Bloomberg’s commodity index, which calculates the
mean of indexes including energy, grains, food and metals, has
declined 1.9 percent.
   South America ’s fifth-biggest economy is experiencing a
“moderation of inflationary pressures” because of a fall in
global prices, higher interest rates and government efforts to
cut planned spending, Finance Minister Felipe Larrain told
reporters Aug. 8.  Moderation  “This is good news,” he said, referring to lower
inflation rates. “There is no guarantee that we can continue to
enjoy these conditions in the future.”  A moderation in domestic output and demand has been slower
than estimated in a June quarterly review, when policy makers
forecasted economic growth of 6 percent to 7 percent in 2011,
the bank said today.  Chile’s gross domestic product, which decelerated to 6.8
percent growth in the second quarter from 10 percent in the
first, will slow further to 5.3 percent in the three months
through September, according to the median estimate of 65
economists in the central bank poll.  Retail sales growth, which averaged 16 percent first
quarter, eased to 9.9 percent in the three months through June,
according to calculations made by Bloomberg based on data
published by the National Statistics Institute.  “With inflation expectations having been tamed, Chile’s
central bank will now focus on activity indicators,” Vazquez
said. “Based on the evolution of real retail sales, private
consumption is expected to have decelerated.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net  