-- 
China Money Rate Climbs Most in Five Weeks on Inflation Fight

-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 
2011-08-18T09:29:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/china-money-rate-climbs-most-in-four-weeks-on-inflation-fight.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
rose the most in five weeks on speculation the central bank will
add to this year’s three interest-rate increases as part of
efforts to stem gains in living costs.  China should place priority on using  interest rates  as one
of its policy tools, the Financial News said today, citing
unidentified market participants. The newspaper is controlled by
the People’s Bank of China. Containing inflation remains the
nation’s top policy goal, Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  said
yesterday in  Hong Kong . Consumer prices increased 6.5 percent
from a year earlier in July, the most since June 2008, the
statistics bureau reported last week.  “Not everyone completely agrees inflation is completely
under control,” said  Matthew Huang , Singapore-based senior
strategist with Macquarie Group Ltd. “The end of the cycle is
near but there may be one more tightening move.”  The seven-day repurchase rate, a gauge of funding
availability in the financial system, rose 60 basis points, or
0.60 percentage point, to 3.85 percent as of 4:30 p.m. in
Shanghai, according to a weighted average compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center. That’s the biggest increase
since July 14.  The People’s Bank of China sold 1 billion yuan of three-
year bills at a yield of 3.97 percent today, compared with 3.89
percent last month, according to a statement on the central
bank’s website. The bank also sold 7 billion yuan of three-month
bills at 3.1618 percent, the statement said. It issued 9 billion
yuan of 91-day repurchase agreement at a yield of 3.16 percent,
the statement said.  The sales came after the  finance ministry  sold 30 billion
yuan of 10-year bonds yesterday. The central bank raised the
yield on one-year bills for the first time in seven weeks at an
Aug. 16 auction.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repo rate, was little changed at
3.7575 percent in Shanghai, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  