-- 
China Curbs Halt Gains in Beijing, Shanghai Home Prices First Time in 2011

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-18T08:47:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/china-july-home-prices-fell-in-14-cities-from-june-amid-government-cooling.html
Home prices in Beijing and Shanghai
stopped rising for the first time this year, signaling measures
to cool the  property market  are beginning to work.  New home prices in the nation’s capital and financial
center were unchanged last month from June, while they fell in
14 of 70 cities monitored by the government, the statistics
bureau said on its website today. The eastern coastal city of
Ningbo and the western city of Chengdu fell 0.3 percent each,
the biggest declines month on month. New home prices rose in all
but two cities in July from a year earlier.  China’s Housing Ministry suggested five criteria for new
cities to issue home purchase restrictions, citing high home
prices and transaction growth in the first six months, the
official Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday. The government
said last month it will rein in residential prices in smaller
cities after it raised down-payment requirements and  mortgage
rates  earlier this year.  “The data is encouraging as we see prices in big cities
such as Beijing and Shanghai stopped rising,” said Shen Jian- guang, a Hong Kong-based economist at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd.
in a phone interview. “There are few seasonal factors in the
data - it’s mainly due to the policies. The government is
determined to cool down the prices in the short term.”  The measure tracking property stocks fell the most among
five industry groups on the Shanghai Composite Index, declining
2.4 percent at the 3 p.m. local time close, and reversing this
year’s gain to a 1.5 percent loss.  Downward Trend  “This is the beginning of a downward trend in property
prices in  China , with more second- and third-tier cities
introducing purchase restriction policies,” said  Sun Mingchun ,
a Hong Kong-based economist at Daiwa Securities Capital Markets,
in an e-mail. “Price declines will occur in more and more
cities in the coming months.”  Private data also showed the country’s housing market may
be cooling. Home prices rose at the slowest pace in 11 months
last month, up 0.2 percent from June, SouFun Holdings Ltd., the
country’s biggest real estate website, said on Aug. 1.  “One thing for sure is that the government has a strong
determination to control the property market,” Yu Liang,
president of China Vanke Co., the country’s biggest developer,
told reporters on Aug. 9.  Tighter Lending  Still, from a year earlier new  home prices  rose in all but
two cities the government monitors. In Beijing, they climbed 1.9
percent last month from a year ago, while in Shanghai they
advanced 2.5 percent. The central city of Nanchang posted the
biggest gain from last year, rising 9.3 percent. Prices in the
southern tourism hub of Sanya fell the most, down 1.1 percent.  Existing home prices in Beijing rose 1.8 percent last month
from a year ago and 0.1 percent from June. Prices in Shanghai
rose 3.8 percent from last year and 0.3 percent from the
previous month.  China’s housing transactions last month fell 30 percent
from June to 348.7 billion yuan, the statistics bureau said on
Aug. 9.  Property prices and volume will weaken in the second half,
said Jinsong Du, a Hong Kong-based real estate analyst at Credit
Suisse Group AG, in a report on Aug. 8.  Chinese regulators have told banks to tighten lending for
real estate on concern credit risks will increase as the impact
of government curbs deepens in the next three to five months, a
person familiar with the matter told Bloomberg on Aug. 12.  “Developers are facing a lot of pressure on liquidity,”
Mizuho’s Shen said, who expected home prices to fall on a
monthly basis as early as September. “With more cities coming
out with home purchase restrictions, developers are going to
have a tougher time.”  --Bonnie Cao. Editors: Andreea Papuc, Malcolm Scott  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in  Shanghai  at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  