-- 
China Stocks Hit By Economic Growth Concerns

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-18T05:52:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/china-stocks-hit-by-economic-growth-concerns.html
China ’s stocks fell for a third day
after Morgan Stanley and Deutsche Bank AG cut their economic
growth forecasts for the Asian country on concern a slowdown in
the U.S. and  Europe  will reduce exports.  Anhui Conch Cement Co., China’s biggest cement maker,
declined to the lowest in two months. Poly Real Estate Group Co.
and China Merchants Bank Co. dragged down a gauge of banks and
developers to its biggest loss in almost two weeks.  “The economic slowdown in China over the next couple of
years is something foreseeable as China relies too much on
exports and investment and these two drivers cannot sustain
growth for long,” said  Zhang Qi , an analyst at Haitong
Securities Co. in Shanghai. “I still don’t see a big investment
opportunity in the stock market.”  The Shanghai Composite Index, which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, slipped 17.13 points, or 0.7 percent,
to 2,584.13 as of 1:22 p.m. local time, extending a 1 percent
decline over the past two days. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  lost 0.8
percent to 2,863.49.  The Shanghai Composite has slid 8 percent this year as the
central bank raised interest rates five times and ordered
lenders to set aside more cash as deposit reserves 12 times
since the start of 2010 to contain inflation that quickened to
the fastest pace in three years last month. The gauge is valued
at 11.8 times estimated earnings, matching a record low set in
January 2006, according to weekly data compiled by Bloomberg.  Morgan Stanley cut its estimate for China’s 2012 economic
growth to 8.7 percent from 9 percent, citing the effects of
weaker growth in the U.S. and Europe. Gross domestic product
growth will slow to 8.1 percent in the fourth quarter of this
year from 9.7 percent in the first quarter, the brokerage said.  Growth Forecasts  Anhui Conch slid 5.1 percent to 24.23 yuan, set for the
lowest close since June 13. Gansu Qilianshan Cement Group Co.
lost 3.5 percent to 15.12 yuan. Huaxin Cement Co., the Chinese
affiliate of Holcim Ltd., retreated 4.4 percent to 26.95 yuan.  China’s economy  may grow less than previously forecast in
2011 and 2012 amid the “shock” of a U.S. and European Union
slowdown, according to Deutsche Bank. The brokerage cut its 2011
GDP growth forecast to 8.9 percent from 9.1 percent and lowered
its 2012 GDP growth estimate to 8.3 percent from 8.6 percent,
analysts led by  Ma Jun  wrote in report. The chance of China’s
economic expansion slowing to 7 percent has jumped to 15 percent
from 5 percent, the analysts said.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  rejected selling euro bonds and expanding a 440
billion-euro ($633 billion) rescue fund after talks between the
two on Aug. 16 in Paris.  Standard & Poor’s  lowered the U.S.
rating one level to AA+ from AAA for the first time on Aug. 5.  Financial Stocks  A gauge of financial companies in the CSI 300 slid 0.8
percent.  Merchants Bank  fell 0.7 percent to 11.84 yuan. China
Minsheng Banking Corp., the nation’s first privately owned bank,
lost 1.4 percent to 5.62 yuan. Huaxia Bank Co., owned by
Deutsche Bank AG, dropped 1.7 percent to 10.38 yuan.  Bad loans at banks will rise to “shockingly high” levels,
eroding profits and slowing growth in the world’s second-biggest
economy, said Vontobel Asset Management Inc.’s Rajiv Jain, who
runs some of this year’s best-performing mutual funds.  China’s local governments are struggling to repay their
debt and “frothy” real-estate markets may leave banks exposed
to falling prices, Jain said in an Aug. 16 phone interview.
While valuations on Chinese banks have dropped to the lowest
levels since October 2008, Jain said the shares aren’t cheap
enough to buy because the lenders’ leverage is too high and
earnings are likely to disappoint investors.  Rate Outlook  Poly Real Estate, China’s second-largest developer by
market value, dropped 1.6 percent to 10.87 yuan. China Vanke
Co., the biggest, fell 1.5 percent to 8.10 yuan.  China’s July new home prices rose from a year earlier in 68
of the 70 cities monitored by the government, the statistics
bureau said on its website today.  “This is the beginning of a downward trend in property
prices in China,” said  Sun Mingchun , a Hong Kong-based
economist for Daiwa Securities Capital Markets. “With more
second and third-tier cities introducing purchase restriction
policy, sequential price declines will occur in more and more
cities in the coming months.”  The nation’s benchmark money-market rate rose the most in
four weeks on speculation the central bank will add to this
year’s three interest-rate increases as part of efforts to stem
gains in living costs.  The seven-day repurchase rate, a gauge of funding
availability in the financial system, rose 57 basis points, or
0.57 percentage point, to 3.82 percent as of 11:48 a.m. in
Shanghai, according to a weighted average compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center. That’s the biggest increase
since July 20.  Earnings Yields  China should place priority on using  interest rates  as one
of its policy tools, the Financial News said today, citing
unidentified market participants. The Asian nation will likely
further tighten lending for property development in the second
half and ease loans to industries targeted for support, it said.  China’s stocks may extend a rebound from a  bear market  if
history is any guide, as rising corporate earnings coupled with
slumping equities make them the cheapest relative to  government
bonds  in more than two years.  The earnings yield, or net income divided by stock prices,
of the Shanghai Composite and the yield of China’s 10-year
government bond. The premium widened to 3.23 on Aug. 9, the most
since the start of 2009. When the gap approached that high in
July 2010, the  Shanghai  Composite Index jumped 34 percent in
four months. The earnings yield is used by money managers to
compare returns among asset classes in making investments.  Hong Kong  Partnership  “Stock prices already reflect a worst-case scenario of a
recession,” even though first-half profits look quite strong
and earnings may grow faster-than-expected in the second half,
said  Li Jun , a strategist at Central China Securities Co. in
Shanghai. “In the long run, stocks are very attractive compared
with bonds.”  Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. said it’s in talks with
the  Shanghai Stock Exchange  and the Shenzhen Stock Exchange
about forming a possible joint venture.  Areas of business being discussed included the development
of new indexes and derivative products on indexes and other
securities. No binding agreement has been reached, the Hong Kong
exchange said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  