-- 
Chinese Protest $5 Billion Losses Tied to U.S Reverse Mergers

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-18T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/chinese-protest-5-billion-losses-tied-to-u-s-reverse-mergers.html
Four wrinkled pieces of paper are
all that remain of Xiong Renzhi’s Nasdaq-fueled dream of a
comfortable retirement in the southern Chinese city of Nanchang.  The certificates gripped in the former electrician’s sinewy
hands represent 46,000 shares of Xi’an Xilan Natural Gas Co.,
which he bought in 2006 for 166,000 yuan ($25,990) by selling
his apartment and moving in with his sick mother-in-law. Xiong,
62, said he expected returns many times his outlay when the
natural-gas distributor listed on  New York ’s Nasdaq Stock
Market, which it did on June 5, 2009.  Like thousands of Chinese who bet their life savings on
companies aiming for U.S. listings -- some of them among firms
that later cost U.S. investors billions of dollars -- Xiong and
his wife are still waiting for a payout.  “We put all our eggs in this one basket,” said Xiong, who
writes articles online to support protests in the financial
capital of Shanghai by others who claim they’ve been cheated.
“Is the company going to exploit us for nothing?”  Xiong and as many as half a million Chinese who spent an
estimated 35 billion yuan ($5.48 billion) on similar investments
want authorities to ensure they get their money back. They
bought into companies touted by local officials, investors said,
only to have their share purchases later deemed illegal by the
central government.  Public Protests  Hundreds have vented their anger in four protests since May
led by a wheelchair-bound retiree, Lu Yafang. One desperate man
last year publicly attempted suicide. All are victims of a
failed Chinese experiment with capital markets, said Xiong.  Xiong’s experience shows how little oversight there is in
the burgeoning Chinese securities market. Local and foreign
investors have been burned by companies that skirted regulations
on fundraising while cloaking themselves in government
authority. Now that investors have lost money, they’re finding
the government is offering them little protection.  “The Chinese government hasn’t bothered to create real
financial markets, where you have the infrastructure that
rewards good behavior and punishes bad behavior,” said Arthur Kroeber, managing director of Beijing-based GaveKal Dragonomics
Research, a financial advisory firm. “In a country where legal
institutions are weak, there are lots of opportunities for
retail investors to get ripped off.”  Reverse Mergers  At least 16 firms based in Xi’an, the capital of Shaanxi
province in  China ’s northwest, joined more than 400 Chinese
businesses that gained stock-market listings in  North America  by
buying public shell companies -- a strategy known as a reverse
merger that avoids the scrutiny of an initial public offering.  Investors in U.S.-listed Chinese companies, including
former American International Group Chief Executive Officer
Maurice “Hank” Greenberg’s C.V. Starr & Co., have lost more
than $7 billion this year in plummeting share values as at least
two dozen firms revealed accounting flaws or auditor
resignations. U.S. securities regulators are investigating.  For many firms that couldn’t meet requirements to list on
China’s two domestic exchanges, selling shares to Chinese
investors on provincial platforms enabled them to raise funds
needed to venture to overseas markets, said Wang Weimin, a
former exchange official who helped promote trading in Shaanxi.  Most of Xilan Natural Gas’s 200 to 300 domestic investors
have sold their certificates back to the company for 1 yuan a
share, according to Xiao Peng, a Xilan executive who handles the
issue. That’s about one-fourth what most of them paid. The
company hasn’t made a conversion into U.S. shares because of a
dispute with an adviser on its public listing, he said.  Capitalist Foray  Xilan raised more than $75 million from U.S. stock sales
and attracted buyers including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. The U.S.
shares, which trade under the name  China Natural Gas Inc. (CHNG) , rose
to as high as $28.80 in 2007 before the financial crisis. Last
year the firm had to revise more than a year of U.S. financial
statements related to the disclosure and impact of a  bank loan .
The shares closed yesterday at $2.44.  A decade ago, Xi’an, an ancient capital of China and the
eastern end of the Silk Road trading route, began a foray into
capitalism led by local officials seeking to build a high-tech
economy. City and provincial governments approved, and in some
cases established and funded, five markets to help private
companies sell shares, investors said.  Shaanxi officials attended promotional tours in Shanghai.
Agents sought investors nationwide through television ads. Some
hawked the investments from desks at Xi’an’s representative
office in  Shanghai , according to accounts by investors, leaving
the impression that the shares had official endorsement.  ‘Ready to Die’  No fewer than 60 Shaanxi firms sold shares to Chinese
investors, according to protest organizer Lu’s count. The inflow
of money supported the development of a high-tech district in
Xi’an that boasts a five-star  Shangri-La hotel , high-rise
apartment buildings and a shopping center where Mont Blanc pens
and Coach bags are for sale.  About 1,200 kilometers (746 miles) to the southeast, in
Shanghai, Lu is trying to get compensation for investors in
firms that didn’t keep their promises. A former factory worker,
Lu, 55, became an organizer for more than 1,000 investors as she
fought for the 100,000 yuan she put into a Shaanxi drugmaker,
including money her sister had given her for emergencies.  At a June demonstration in Shanghai, scores of protesters
gathered outside a government compound, some holding signs with
the single Chinese character for injustice. Lu sat under an
umbrella in a drizzle, handing out leaflets that read: “Made
our money with toil and ready to die to get it back.”  Two men unfurled a banner before plainclothes police moved
in to grab it, sparking a skirmish. Lu responded by playing a
pre-recorded speech through a loudspeaker.  Electric Wheelchair  Crippled by a childhood bout of polio, Lu started investing
after receiving compensation for being evicted from her home and
an early retirement payout from her employer, a state-owned
manufacturer of air conditioning systems.  She said she bought shares of Chongyang Biotechnology Co.,
a Xi’an-based developer of liver drugs, from a stock-promotion
company in September 2005 that dangled the prospect of an
overseas listing. An agent urged her not to tell her family
until she could wow them with her gains, she said. In
anticipation, she spent 3,000 yuan on an electric wheelchair.  At the time, Lu said, she had no idea Chongyang
Biotechnology’s CEO and his son had been arrested two months
earlier for illegal fundraising. The men were sentenced to at
least two years, and the manager of the stock-promotion company
got 13 years, according to copies of court files provided by
victims. Lu said she hasn’t received any compensation.  ‘Organized Scheme’  “We weren’t cheated by an individual, it was an organized
scheme,” said Lu, who has twice been to Beijing to petition
authorities. “If 95 percent of the companies promoted by
Shaanxi are bad, isn’t that the government’s responsibility?”  Securities regulators in Beijing, Shaanxi and Shanghai
declined to comment or didn’t respond to telephone calls and
faxed questions. An official at Shaanxi’s financial office
declined to comment when reached by phone.  A committee composed of former Shaanxi officials published
a  report  in 2007 saying that 230,000 investors had bought shares
in 160 companies in sales later deemed illegal. The report
called the share sales to retirees “fraudulent” and “a huge
social risk.”  Pushing Exchanges  “Every city government wants to become a financial center,
so you have the continued pushing up of these exchanges,” said
 Stephen Green , head of Greater China research for Standard
Chartered Plc in  Hong Kong . “The regulator comes in because
they’re often badly managed and people lose money. Then there
are social protests.”  Beijing securities lawyer Yang Zhaoquan estimated the
number of victims at about 500,000, most of them from low-income
groups. Only a small percentage is likely to get compensation
for lost investments of as much as 35 billion yuan, Yang said on
a  webcast  last year organized by  Securities Times , a government-
owned newspaper. He declined to comment for this article.  Xiong and his wife, the Xilan Natural Gas investors, met Lu
online after they began communicating with others trying to
recoup money invested in Shaanxi company shares. The wife, who
asked not to be named for fear of reprisals, gets on the
Internet nightly, sometimes posting Xiong’s articles under the
name Two Trees.  “I wanted to let off some steam and demand justice be
done,” said Xiong, a thin man with a hoarse voice.  Cartoon Pandas  Xiong said he first heard about Xilan after his wife
responded to a television ad offering free investment
consulting. They had bought stocks listed on China’s main
bourses in Shanghai and Shenzhen and were disappointed by the
returns, according to Xiong. She said agents convinced her to
consider buying so-called internal shares issued by companies
that hadn’t yet listed on Chinese exchanges and suggested Xilan.  Xilan had big plans for profiting from China’s skyrocketing
energy needs. By December 2005, it supplied gas to about 50,000
homes in the Xi’an area, sold compressed natural gas to fueling
stations for use by taxis and buses and expected to open three
of its own stations, according to  U.S. filings . That month, the
company went public in the U.S. in a reverse merger with
Coventure International Inc., a financially strapped consulting
firm, gaining a listing on the over-the-counter market as China
Natural Gas.  China Natural Gas’s  website  features two cartoon pandas
dancing in American flag vests and unfurling a banner that reads
“Innovation of Energy Industry.”  20-Hour Trip  Xiong and his wife took an almost 20-hour train trip from
 Nanchang  to Xi’an in January 2006 to check out the company. In
freezing weather, Xiong talked to taxi drivers whose vehicles
ran on natural gas and who told him of queues at fuel stations.  “I saw good prospects in that industry,” Xiong said.  After buying shares in the company from a freelance agent,
the couple went to Xilan’s office. There a woman handling the
domestic share program told them that their certificates,
stamped with the firm’s official seal, were authentic and could
be converted into tradable shares in the U.S. once the company
moved to  Nasdaq , according to Xiong.  Seats were sold out for the return trip home, and Xiong
stood between compartments next to the bathroom. Still, he was
feeling happy, he said.  “Finally we seized an opportunity,” Xiong said. “The
train was crowded and noisy, but I was relieved.”  ‘Primary School’  Xiong said he and his wife were reassured their investment
would pay off because Xilan had already listed on the over-the-
counter market in the U.S. and its shares were gaining. The
month the couple visited Xi’an, China Natural Gas raised more
than $10 million in  private placements  to large investors,
including Amaranth Advisors LLC before the hedge fund’s
collapse, and its stock jumped 55 percent.  In China, Xilan’s domestic shares were listed on the  Xi’an
Technology Property Trading Center , one of the province’s five
exchanges, according to Xiong and two other Xilan investors.  Such platforms were “like a primary school for capital
markets,” according to Wang Weimin, former deputy manager of
another exchange, the Shaanxi Technology Property Exchange.  That exchange was founded by the Shaanxi Science and
Technology Department in 2001, according to Sun Haiying, who
headed the department at the time. Then-governor Cheng Andong
approved the platform and authorized 7 million yuan in support,
he said. Cheng could not be reached for comment.  Telephone calls to the Shaanxi province information office
weren’t returned. Li Yingjun, manager of the Xi’an Technology
Property Trading Center, said the share selling had stopped. He
declined to comment further.  Shaanxi Exchange  The Shaanxi Technology Property Exchange posted company
share prices on an electronic screen near a Buddhist pagoda in
central Xi’an and on the exchange’s website. Shares typically
were set at about 4 yuan and sold in blocks of 1,000, known as
TPs for technology properties, according to Wang. The term was
an improvisation to circumvent restrictions on selling
securities outside China’s two formal exchanges, he said. Rather
than sell shares, the exchange trained brokers to do so.  In August 2003, Shaanxi officials accompanied local
executives to Shanghai to meet potential investors from China’s
wealthier east coast, Wang said. Among them was Ji Qin’an, who
later became chairman and chief executive officer of Xilan. The
company wouldn’t make Ji, who owns about 14 percent of China
Natural Gas’s shares through direct and indirect stakes,
available for comment.  ‘Absorbing Money’  “This was a means to an end that some local governments
tolerated and supported to grow local economies, absorbing money
from more developed areas,” said  Song Yixin , a lawyer with
Shanghai New Hope Law Firm who represents people claiming they
lost money investing in such domestic shares.  The companies promoted on the platforms initially targeted
listings on a planned enterprise market in Shenzhen intended to
cater to firms that didn’t meet the requirements of China’s main
stock exchanges. When the new market was delayed -- it didn’t
open until 2009 -- executives turned their attention to the U.S.  Shaanxi officials announced in 2007 that the province would
reward companies that raised money on domestic or overseas
markets. A firm with an initial listing that brought in as much
as 100 million yuan would be eligible for an award of 200,000
yuan, according to a  policy  issued in June 2007.  Cases like that of Chongyang Biotechnology, the company
that protest leader Lu invested in, led to regulatory scrutiny
by the central government. In December 2006, China’s State
Council, the nation’s cabinet,  declared it illegal  for companies
not listed in China to sell shares to the general public or to
more than 200 people.  Crackdown on Fraud  At least four executives and dozens of sales agents were
jailed for fraud in a crackdown after firms collapsed or didn’t
pay investors back, according to documents from securities
regulators reviewed by Bloomberg News.  Xilan and other Nasdaq-listed companies based in Xi’an have
suffered few repercussions. Among those accused by domestic
investors of reneging on promises include  SkyPeople Fruit Juice
Inc. (SPU) ,  Sino Clean Energy Inc. (SCEI)  and Skystar Bio-Pharmaceutical Co.
All listed in reverse mergers and continue to trade.  Sino Clean, a maker of coal-slurry fuel, said it is freeing
domestic shareholders from restrictions on trading. SkyPeople, a
beverage company, and Skystar, a veterinary drugmaker, didn’t
respond to telephone calls and e-mails seeking comment.  Wayne Lee, a spokesman for Nasdaq OMX Group Inc., declined
to comment.  ‘Law Was Incomplete’  Sun, the former Shaanxi official, said investors and most
of the companies were innocent and that the fundamental issue
was a lack of a market like the OTC, where the fundraising
demands by small private companies could be regulated.  “The law was incomplete, and there was no way to control
the middlemen,” said Sun, whose wife lost money on similar
investments. “Had the exchange evolved into an OTC market,
there would have been no problem today.”  Xiong and his wife first became alarmed in 2007 after
Xilan’s website took down a speech by Chairman Ji promising a
share conversion, Xiong said. In June 2009, when Xilan
celebrated its Nasdaq listing, nobody contacted him. When he
called, the company told him he would have to wait to get the
U.S. shares, according to Xiong.  Two years and many phone calls later, the company has
offered Xiong only 46,000 yuan, 1 yuan for each share, less than
one-third of his investment, he said.  Ownership Dispute  Xiao Peng, the Xilan executive, said the company hasn’t
allowed a conversion because of an ownership dispute with
Benjamin Wey, who advised the firm on its U.S. listing.  Wey, president of corporate advisory firm New York Global
Group, said in an e-mail that he hasn’t communicated with China
Natural Gas for at least 5 years and has “never been aware of
any dispute” with the company.  “The share transfer was done in an ill-formed way in a
non-standard market,” Xiao said in a telephone interview.  Xiong said the government should help victims recover the
full amount they paid since Xilan’s share sale was illegal. A
court in Shanghai  ruled  last year that one company,  Shanghai
Perfection Nanometre New Material Co. , is responsible along with
sales agents for compensating shareholders.  “The issue is like a container that will sooner or later
explode,” Xiong said, hitting his palm with a plastic water
bottle during an interview in Nanchang in June.  Rat Poison  It already did for 70-year-old Luo Yisheng, a retired
grocery store worker who plays the flute. Luo said he walked
into the courtyard of a Shanghai government office in March 2010
and emptied five packets of powdered rat poison into his mouth.
In his pocket was a suicide note in which he asked for
compensation for soured investments in two Xi’an-based companies
he had been told would earn him a small fortune on Nasdaq.  “I haven’t got a penny back,” Luo wrote, asking to be
cremated with his flutes. “It’s all fake. They’re all scams.
How can I face my wife and son? I can do nothing but say goodbye
to this world.”  Luo survived after security guards rushed him to a nearby
hospital, where his stomach was pumped, he said.  “I can die at home, but nobody would know how suffocated I
was,” he said in an interview at his apartment in a suburb of
Shanghai in July, his face turning red as he patted the
certificates he bought. “Those companies and agents pushed me
to suicide.”  Buyback Offer  As for Xilan, its U.S. foray may soon be over. Shares of
China Natural Gas have fallen 59 percent in the year since it
announced the restatement. Roth  Capital Partners  and Rodman &
Renshaw LLC have suspended coverage. A class-action suit
accusing the firm of misleading investors by withholding
information is proceeding in federal court in  Delaware .  Evidence of Xilan’s dispute with domestic shareholders and
a high turnover of chief financial officers pushed  Polaris
Capital Management LLC , a $4.2 billion investment manager, to
sell all of its shares in China Natural Gas this year, according
to Bin Xiao, an analyst at Boston-based Polaris.  “Our big concern was on the corporate-governance issues,”
said Xiao, who visited the company in April 2010.  On June 30, Ji, Xilan’s chairman, announced a plan to buy
out China Natural Gas shareholders for $4.25 a share in a take-
private deal backed by Themes Investment Partners, a China-
focused private-equity fund. Robert Moses Jr., a Houston-based
investor with long experience in the energy business who owns
about 3.5 percent of the company’s shares, said at that price
he’ll break even or make “a little” on his investment.  Xiong isn’t likely to be so lucky. He and his wife moved
into an unfurnished home in a Nanchang suburb last month after
her mother died and her brother bought out her share of the
apartment. Xiong has put his electrical expertise to work wiring
his new abode.  “Ji will have his ‘Escape to Victory’ with money in
hand,” said Xiong’s wife, referring to a 1981  Sylvester
Stallone movie  that was popular in China. “It’s not fair. How
could the U.S. too let him get away with this?”  --Wenxin Fan, Dune Lawrence. With assistance from Stephanie Wong
in Shanghai and Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York. Editors: Neil Western, Robert Friedman.  To contact Bloomberg News staff responsible for this story:
Fan Wenxin in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3045 or
 wfan19@bloomberg.net ;
Dune Lawrence in New York at +1-212-617-4510 or
 dlawrence6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Melissa Pozsgay at 
 mpozsgay@bloomberg.net ;
Gary Putka at 
 gputka@bloomberg.net . 