-- 
China’s ETF Plan Boosts Hong Kong Financials Amid Biggest Drop Since 2008

-- B y   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n ,   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 
2011-08-18T05:44:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/china-s-etf-plan-boosts-hong-kong-financials-amid-biggest-drop-since-2008.html
China’s Vice Premier  Li Keqiang 
unveiled plans yesterday to allow more cross-border investments,
boosting Hong Kong financial shares that are poised for the
biggest losses since the 2008 credit crisis.  Guotai Junan International Holdings Ltd. (1788) , a securities
brokerage, and  China Everbright Ltd. (165) , which provides investment-
banking services, surged more than 8 percent in Hong Kong
trading yesterday, leading gains in a measure of financial
companies in the Hang Seng Composite Index. Bank of  East Asia 
increased the most in a year, while  Dah Sing Financial Holdings
Ltd. (440)  posted the largest advance since April. All four stocks
extended their gains today.  The proposals further relax limits on investment flows,
bolstering Hong Kong’s role as a financial hub.  China  will start
an exchange-traded fund linked to Hong Kong equities, commit a
20 billion yuan ($3.1 billion) quota for qualified companies to
invest in domestic Chinese securities and expand sales of yuan
bonds in the city, Li said at a forum yesterday.  “This is a boost to sentiment to investors in brokerage
companies,” said Agnes Deng, the Hong Kong-based head of Hong
Kong and China equities for Baring Asset Management, which
oversees $52 billion, in a telephone interview. “But in the
near term, it’s hard to quantify what’s the impact on earnings
or revenue. There are a lot of other things that probably need
to be smoothed out.”  Too Little, Too Late  China’s government places quotas on foreign ownership of
securities listed in the country and also on the amount domestic
fund managers are allowed to invest offshore. The government
limits inflows to curb gains in the yuan, which rose 3.2 percent
against the dollar this year.  “This is a late decision,” said Ronald Wan, managing
director at China Merchants Securities ( Hong Kong ) Co., part of
the nation’s sixth-biggest brokerage. “China government should
increase the size of the program because it’s too small. It
definitely can’t satisfy demand.”  Deposits of the Chinese currency in Hong Kong totaled a
record 554 billion yuan at the end of June, more than six times
the level of a year earlier, according to the city’s de facto
central bank. A 15 billion-yuan sale of yuan-denominated bonds
by China’s finance ministry in Hong Kong this week was its
largest issue of “dim sum bonds” in the city, drawing 69
billion yuan of orders.  Bad Loans  While the Hang Seng Composite Financial Index of banks,
brokerages and insurers advanced in the past two days, it has
lost 14 percent this year, on track for its biggest slide since
2008’s 43 percent tumble. China, the world’s second-largest
economy, has tightened lending requirements, introduced property
curbs and raised  interest rates  to tame inflation that
accelerated to a three-year high in July.  The financial index, which reached the lowest level since
March 2009 last week, has also fallen amid increased concern of
bad loans at Chinese lenders. China’s first audit of local
government debt found liabilities of 10.7 trillion yuan at the
end of last year and warned of repayment risks, including a
reliance on land sales, according to a report from the National
Audit Office on June 27.  Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd., the world’s biggest
bourse operator by market value, said today that it’s in joint-
venture talks with China’s stock exchanges about developing
indexes and equity derivatives. No binding agreement has been
reached, the Hong Kong bourse said.  Through Train  China will expand its companies’ offshore bond sales and
support the use of yuan for foreign direct investment in the
nation, Li, the front-runner to replace  Wen Jiabao  as premier in
2013 said yesterday. The city’s status as a financial center
“is crucial for Hong Kong’s development,” he said.  The pledge for an exchange-traded fund comes after the
government scrapped a plan in January 2010 to let Chinese
nationals buy equities directly. The so-called “through-train”
program for direct purchases, unveiled by regulators in August
2007, had helped push the  Hang Seng Index  to a record high in
October that year.  “The probability of the measures happening is hard to tell
because details have not been announced yet,” said  Yoji Takeda ,
the Hong Kong-based head of the Asian equity management team at
RBC Investment (Asia) Ltd., which oversees $1.2 billion. “Banks
in Hong Kong may get some benefits because there will be more
yuan business.”  Dim Sum  Guotai Junan climbed 3.1 percent to HK$2.97 as of 12:27
p.m. in Hong Kong, extending yesterday’s 9.9 percent surge. The
stock is set for its highest close since Aug. 2. China
Everbright gained 1.5 percent to HK$12.38, after yesterday’s 8.2
percent surge. Both stocks lost almost 30 percent in 2011.  Dah Sing Financial rose 5.9 percent to HK$31.30, adding to
yesterday’s 3.3 percent increase. Bank of East  Asia  advanced 0.8
percent to HK$30.10, paring its drop this year to 7.5 percent.
It climbed 4 percent yesterday.  “As China’s capital market isn’t completely open, there
will be certain criteria to control the flow of funds into the
country,” said Andrew Fung, head of treasury and investment at
Hang Seng Bank Ltd. in Hong Kong. The comments made yesterday
were “just high-level conceptual talk,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lynn Thomasson in Hong Kong at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  