-- 
China’s Chery Automobile Sees 10-Year Road to Profit in Brazil

-- B y   J o s e   S e r g i o   O s s e
-- 
2011-08-18T20:35:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/china-s-chery-automobile-sees-10-year-road-to-profit-in-brazil.html
Chery Automobile Co.,  China ’s
biggest auto exporter, may see “insignificant” profit margins
for the next decade in Brazil, where the company is attempting
to triple market share by 2015, said Luis Curi, the chief
executive officer for the Brazilian unit.  Chery wants to attain 3 percent of sales in the South
American nation after production begins at a $400 million
factory the company is building in Jacarei, in Sao Paulo state,
Curi said in an interview yesterday at Bloomberg’s Sao Paulo
office. The Wuhu, China-based company expects to sell about
30,000 vehicles in Brazil this year. The new plant, scheduled to
start production in the second half of 2013, would add capacity
to make 150,000 to 170,000 cars annually, Curi said.  “The Chinese market already guarantees Chery its
profitability, so here in  Brazil  we’re in the stage of buying
market, working with insignificant profit margins,” he said.
“For the next 10 years we don’t see, we don’t expect, a
financial return. These will be 10 years of investment. The
profit margins come only after that.”  Chery has to have profit margins that let it work at break-
even, while avoiding the need to work at a loss in Brazil, he
said.  Chinese automakers’ market share in Brazil has expanded to
3.29 percent this month, from virtually zero in April 2010,
according to data from the national car dealers association
known as Fenabrave. Chery was the first of the new wave of
Chinese car manufacturers to set foot in Brazil, in May 2010,
and was followed by Chongqing Lifan Auto Co. in December and
Anhui Jianghuai Automobile Co.’s JAC Motors in March.  Ford, Fiat, GM  Chery has 82 dealers in Brazil, Curi said, and expects to
boost the number to 150 next year. The company foresees sales of
30,000 and 35,000 cars in 2012. Chery increased its market share
to 1.1 percent in mid-August from 0.15 percent in May 2010,
according to Fenabrave.  In 10 years, there will be significant changes in the top
ranking of automakers in Brazil, Curi said. By then, Chery
expects to have reached enough production momentum to scale down
costs and improve margins, and fulfill the goal to be among the
top five automobile companies in the country.  “There’s already a clear loss of share among the four
leading manufacturers,” said Curi in reference to  Fiat SpA (F) ,
 Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  “It has
been a gradual, but consistent, process and this is clearly a
trend.”  “Traditional” automakers, which will increase their
sales, will cede market share as new companies such as Chery
enter the nation and boost investment and production, Curi said.
JAC Motors said Aug. 1 it will build a $600 million factory in
the country. Asian automakers Nissan Motor Co.,  Mitsubishi
Motors Corp. (7211)  and  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  also announced broader
investments in Brazil, while  Germany ’s  Bayerische Motoren Werke
AG (BMW)  said its considering a  production line  in Brazil.  Brazilian Economy  The potential of a weaker second half for the Brazilian
economy has yet to be felt by Chery, where consumer demand
remains unchanged. The increased  capital requirements  for credit
to buy cars that were imposed in December by the government of
 Dilma Rousseff  was already “diluted,” according to Curi.  “There’s still plenty of credit,” he said. “As for the
worsening of the crisis, expected for the second semester, we
still haven’t felt the effects in a stronger manner in our
network. So much that orders for China remain at the same level
as before.”  Brazil is today the biggest market for Chery outside China.
The company’s rate of purchase from its Chinese parent hovers
around 4,000 vehicles a month, with practically no stock in the
country, Curi said.  “What arrives in Brazil is practically already sold,”
Curi said, explaining that there’s a hiatus of about 4 months
between the order and the actual delivery of a car in a
Brazilian port.  ‘Popular’ Competition  Credit in Brazil expanded 20 percent in the year ended in
June to 1.83 trillion reais ($1.14 trillion), according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Since the end of 2010, the government has
been using “macro prudential” measures to curb credit
expansion in an effort to stem inflation. Brazilian consumer
prices soared 6.87 percent in July from a year earlier, the
fastest rate since June 2005, defying the government’s efforts.  Curi said he expects tougher competition in Brazil from the
well established car manufacturers rather than with other
companies new to the market. The kind of vehicle Chery brings to
Brazil fits into the “popular” category of subcompacts, small
sedans and hatchbacks, much different from the larger, pricier
cars sold by other newcomers and importers, Curi said.  “It’s tougher to compete with the ones that are already
here, because of the kind of product we’re selling,” Curi said.
“Chery was the first one to come with relative strength to this
market, known as ‘popular,’ which accounts for 70 percent of the
sales in Brazil.”  Vehicle Platforms  Chery’s unit in Jacarei will have two vehicle platforms and
five different models, Curi said. In the first stage, a sedan, a
hatchback and a crossover will be produced there, all fitting
the popular market segment. The second platform is yet to be
decided. Curi said there’s a possibility the new platform would
be for a subcompact smaller than the other ones.  When the factory comes online, cars made there will have 30
percent to 35 percent of Brazilian content, reaching about 60
percent in three years, Curi said. With that, Chery will be
preparing itself for new rules now in discussion within the
government that may lead to lower taxes for carmakers with
production in Brazil.  Chery’s unit in Brazil will also be used as an export
platform for other South American nations, Curi said. This will
help other regional offices from the company reduce costs and
risks from the four-month gap between orders and deliveries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jose Sergio Osse in  Sao Paulo  at 
 josse1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  