-- 
China Mobile Profit Rises 7%, Beats Estimate on Data Traffic

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-18T09:24:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/china-mobile-2nd-quarter-profit-rises-7-on-data-traffic-beats-estimate.html
China Mobile Ltd. (941) , the world’s
biggest phone carrier by users, posted a 7 percent gain in
second-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates after data
traffic rose on demand for smartphone games and videos.  Net income rose to 34.4 billion yuan ($5.4 billion) from
32.2 billion yuan a year earlier, according to figures derived
from first-half earnings reported to the Hong Kong stock
exchange today. The company was projected to post profit of 33.2
billion yuan according to the average of four analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales rose 9.3 percent to 131.9
billion yuan.  China Mobile Chairman  Wang Jianzhou  is using popular titles
such as Rovio Entertainment Oy’s “Angry Birds” to attract
customers, helping the carrier maintain its lead over China
Unicom ( Hong Kong ) Ltd. in subscribers. China Mobile’s Mobile
Market store had 86 million customers who recorded 260 million
downloads in the first half of this year, the company said
today.  “Data service is definitely driving the growth,” Paul Wuh, head of Internet research at Samsung Securities Co. in Hong
Kong, said in a phone interview today. “Data as a percentage of
average revenue per user is increasing, which is a positive
because data tends to have better margins.”  Second-quarter sales were seen at 128.8 billion yuan, the
average of six analysts’ estimates.  Apple Deal  China Mobile fell 0.6 percent to close at HK$75.15 in Hong
Kong trading. The stock has dropped 2.7 percent this year while
the benchmark  Hang Seng Index  has dropped 13 percent.  China Unicom, the nation’s only carrier that now offers
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone with a service contract, has failed to use
that advantage to surpass China Mobile in 3G users.  China Mobile’s 3G network is incompatible with the iPhone,
yet the company attracted 7.4 million iPhone users to its
second-generation network, many of whom access the Web over its
Wi-Fi network, Wang said at a press conference in Hong Kong.  Wang wants a deal with Apple to offer the iPhone “as soon
as possible,” he said at the press conference. Wang, who said
he meet with Apple Inc. Chief Operating Officer  Tim Cook  in
China, said he couldn’t give a time frame for when there could
be an agreement with Apple.  Apple may make a fourth-generation iPhone when the company
rolls out its TD-LTE network, and indicated the two companies
may work on “more current’ products as well, he said without
giving details.  Data Usage  China  Mobile’s subscribers with iPhones make use of twice
as much data each month as the company’s other smartphone
subscribers, and three times the company’s average, Samsung’s
Wuh said.  China Mobile had a total of 616.8 million mobile-phone
subscribers at the end of June after adding more than 5 million
subscribers every month this year. The total includes 35 million
3G users, the company said last month.  That exceeds China Unicom’s 181.6 million mobile customers
and the 24 million users of its 3G service at the end of June.
China Telecom Corp. was in third place with 108.4 million mobile
subscribers in the same period.  China Unicom and China Telecom will report earnings next
week.  China Mobile’s wireless data sales jumped 43 percent to
19.3 billion yuan in the first six months of this year, and
accounted for 7.7 percent of operating revenue in the period,
the company said today.  ‘‘Obviously the data service section is stronger than we
expected,” Jim Tang, an analyst at Shenyin Wanguo Securities
Co. in  Shanghai , said in an interview today. “Data demand is
there.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  