-- 
Cineworld Says First-Half Net Income Falls 36 Percent

-- B y   B e n   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-08-18T15:43:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/cineworld-says-first-half-net-income-rises-on-strong-finish.html
Cineworld Group Plc (CINE) , a U.K. cinema
operator, said first-half profit fell 36 percent in spite of a
“strong finish” to the period.  Net income for the 26 weeks to the end of June was 5.1
million pounds ($8.4 million) down from 8 million pounds a year
earlier, the London-based company said today in a statement.
Revenue was little changed at 163.6 million pounds. Earnings
before taxes, interest, depreciation and amortization rose 4.9
percent to 25.6 million pounds.  Shares fell 1.1 percent to 183 pence at the 4:30 p.m. close
in  London .  “Net profit is not the most meaningful metric because
investment in the digital rollout clouds the picture,” Chief
Executive Officer Stephen Wiener said in an e-mailed response to
questions. “The analysts all use EBITDA as a better indicator
of the business’s operating performance.”  The company said more than 70 percent of its cinema screens
will be digital by the end of the year.  First-half trading was “resilient” even after a “lower
number of blockbuster and 3D film releases,” Wiener said in the
statement.  Admissions to view 3D films fell to 16 percent from 20
percent a year earlier, though Wiener said this was because of
the success of “Avatar” and “Alice in Wonderland” in the
first half of 2010. A stronger second half is expected with
films including “ Harry Potter : The Deathly Hallows Part 2” and
the latest installment in the “Twilight Saga,” according to
the statement.  The interim dividend was raised to 3.6 pence per share from
3.4 pence a year earlier.  “We reiterate our positive stance,” analysts at Panmure
wrote in a note to clients today. “The stock is not expensive”
and “offers a highly attractive 6 percent dividend yield.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Edwards in London at 
 bedwards35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  