-- 
Citadel Follows Paulson in Pre-Rout Bet on Regions Financial

-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k   a n d   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 
2011-08-18T20:29:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/citadel-followed-paulson-fairholme-in-pre-rout-wager-on-regions-financial.html
Citadel LLC and Lansdowne Partners
Ltd. boosted stakes in  Regions Financial Corp. (RF)  in the second
quarter, mimicking earlier bets by hedge fund Paulson & Co.,
before the bank led this month’s rout in U.S. financial stocks.  The three firms, along with Capital Research Global
Investors,  Fairholme Capital Management LLC  and Arrowstreet
Capital LP, held a total of $1.21 billion in shares of
Birmingham, Alabama-based Regions as of June 30, according to
the companies’ regulatory filings this month. Regions has
plunged 31 percent this month, leading a 21 percent slide in the
24-company KBW Bank Index.  The firm, whose results improved in the first and fourth
quarters, drew investors with a stock “inexpensive versus its
normalized earnings power,” said  Thomas Brown , chief executive
officer of Second Curve Capital LLC and a Bloomberg Television
contributing editor. The situation changed this month when U.S.
regional banks tumbled on concern they’ll be hardest hit by a
slowing economy and extended low  interest-rate  environment, said
Jefferson Harralson, an analyst at KBW Inc.  “The regional banks rely more on the business of taking in
deposits and making loans,” Harralson said. “Right now
deposits have little value because rates are so low and the loan
demand is very minimal.”  The  Federal Reserve  announced last week that it would keep
its benchmark interest rate at a record low at least through
mid-2013. The persistent low rate is preventing regional banks
from turning an increasing deposit base into earnings growth
because of flatter yields, Harralson said.  Regional Banks Decline  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI)  and Salt Lake City-based  Zions
Bancorporation (ZION)  both slid 28 percent this month.  BB&T Corp. (BBT) ,
based in Winston-Salem, North Carolina, and Cincinnati-based
 Fifth Third Bancorp (FITB)  are also among August’s worst performers,
declining 23 percent and 24 percent, respectively. Cleveland-
based  KeyCorp (KEY)  has fallen 22 percent.  Citadel, Lansdowne, Capital Research and Arrowstreet were
among firms that reported the largest purchases of Regions stock
during the second quarter, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Fairholme, led by founder  Bruce Berkowitz  and
Regions’s largest holder, and Paulson largely maintained
positions they had built before the period began. The six firms
held about 16 percent of Regions stock as of June 30, Bloomberg
data show.  Regions fell 35 cents, or 7.7 percent, to $4.19 at 4:15
p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
have fallen 40 percent this year.  Regions’s Profit  KBW has a 12-month price estimate of $7 for the stock.
Regions also is on the firm’s most recent list of lenders that
are likely to attract buyer interest and have a “greater than
average” chance they could be sold, Harralson said. Evelyn Mitchell, a spokeswoman for Regions, declined to comment on the
stock price.  Regions, the 10th-largest U.S. bank by deposits, reported a
third consecutive profit as loan-loss provisions declined in the
second quarter. The lender last posted an annual profit in 2007
and has written off more than $3 billion in loans since the
start of 2009, as developers, house builders and mortgage
borrowers in the U.S. Southeast struggled to make payments.
Regions hasn’t repaid a $3.5 billion U.S. bailout.  If economic growth is 1 percent or less in the next one to
two years, profit estimates for large U.S. lenders including
several regional banks may be slashed as much as 30 percent,
according to analysts at Deutsche Bank AG. U.S. gross domestic
product, adjusted for inflation, slowed to 1.6 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier.  ‘Sluggish’ Revenue Growth  “This pretty much solidifies that revenue growth is going
to be very sluggish for the industry through this year at
least,” said John Pancari, an analyst at New York-based
Evercore Partners Inc.  With lower-than-expected loan growth, regional lenders will
continue cutting costs, Pancari said. In the second quarter,
Regions posted a $77 million charge partly related to the
consolidation of about 40 branches later this year, Chief
Financial Officer David Turner said in July. The bank operates
about 1,800 offices in 16 states.  Even with slower loan growth, regional banks’ credit
quality is improving, and they should set aside less to cover
bad loans in the third quarter, Second Curve’s Brown said.
Regions’s second-quarter credit-loss provision was $398 million,
39 percent less than a year earlier. Still, investors’ concern
that the economy will fuel loan losses is weighing on the
industry’s shares, he said.  Investors Cut Holdings  “Their portfolios have been scrubbed,” said Brown, who
doesn’t hold shares in Regions. “What I’m surprised at is that
people would be so worried about additional loan losses at the
banks that have already had major loan losses, like Regions.”  Total credit-loss provisions among U.S. banks plunged 60
percent in the first quarter this year from the same period in
2010, according to Bloomberg data.  Some of Regions’s largest investors slashed holdings in the
lender in the second quarter, including New York-based  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Fidelity Management & Research LLC.  John Paulson ’s hedge fund didn’t change its Regions holding
in the second quarter even as it cut stakes in other lenders,
including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) , and Atlanta-
based SunTrust.  Citadel’s holdings totaled $72.9 million on June 30;
Fairholme held $768 million; Capital Research $78.7 million;
Arrowstreet $110 million and Lansdowne $60.8 million, Bloomberg
data show. Paulson held a $120 million stake in Regions at the
end of the second quarter, according to the data.  Troubled-Debt Disclosure  Armel Leslie , a spokesman for New York-based Paulson & Co.,
 Chuck Freadhoff  of Capital Research, and Devon Spurgeon, a
spokeswoman for Chicago-based Citadel, the $11 billion hedge
fund run by  Ken Griffin , declined to comment.  Tom Murray, a spokesman for London-based Lansdowne, the
biggest hedge fund in Europe, Charlotte Powell of JPMorgan asset
management, and Fairholme’s Hedda Nadler declined to comment.
 Michael Stanton , a spokesman for Boston-based Arrowstreet,
didn’t return calls seeking comment.  Following guidance from the Financial Accounting Standards
Board, Regions will being reporting newly identified troubled
debt restructurings, or TDRs, on Sept. 30, the lender said in a
regulatory filing this month. The amount of new TDRs could be as
much as $1 billion, which is related to commercial and investor
real estate loans, Regions said. The bank doesn’t expect its
loan-loss allowance to materially change as a result of an
increase, according to the filing.  ‘Elevated Risk Profile’  The TDR disclosure could be exacerbating the stock’s
decline, Pancari said.  “While I agree that Regions is on the right trajectory and
is making gradual progress, you can’t disregard the elevated
risk profile from certain things like the TDR disclosure,” he
said. Pancari said he doesn’t expect an increase in net write-
offs or loan-loss provisions if TDRs climb.  Chief Executive Officer Grayson Hall, 54, has said that
Regions’s core businesses continue to improve as the bank builds
its consumer loan portfolio to balance commercial business.  “What’s going to cause the stock to go back to book value
is, are they going to put the credit problems behind them and
make money?” Brown said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 