-- 
Dexia’s Biggest Fall Since 2009 Leads European, U.S. Banks

-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-08-18T21:15:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/citigroup-dexia-lead-decline-in-banks-on-concern-about-regions-economies.html
Dexia SA (DEXB)  and  Regions Financial Corp. (RF) 
led a plunge in European and U.S. banks amid concern the
regions’ economies are weakening and speculation that some
European lenders may struggle to fund themselves.  Dexia, Belgium’s biggest bank by assets, fell 14 percent to
1.57 euros in the largest drop since March 2009. The 46-member
Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index tumbled 6.7
percent at 4:45 p.m. in London. Regions, Alabama’s biggest bank,
dropped 7.7 percent to $4.19 at 4:15 p.m. in New York, the worst
performer in the  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  of 24 U.S. firms.  Europe’s sovereign debt crisis is spurring the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York to question the region’s lenders about
their access to funds for U.S. operations, the Wall Street
Journal reported today, citing people it didn’t identify. An
undisclosed euro-area lender borrowed $500 million from the
European Central Bank Aug. 17, the first such bid in six months.
U.S. shares fell after initial jobless claims unexpectedly rose
and Philadelphia-area manufacturing shrank by the most in more
than two years.  “Macro conditions almost everywhere you’re looking are
deteriorating,” said  Gary Townsend , a founder of Hill-Townsend
LLC in  Chevy Chase , Maryland, which has $42 million under
management. “These things spell an economic slowdown that is
going to impact earnings and possibly credit quality but
certainly share prices.”  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA, France’s second-biggest bank by market
value, sank 12 percent in Paris, while  Barclays Plc (BARC)  slid 11
percent in London. The KBW index slid 5.6 percent to 36.56.  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC) , the nation’s biggest lender, declined 6
percent to $7.01.  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest U.S. bank,
fell 6.3 percent to $27.98.  ‘Dangerously Close’  The U.S. and Europe are “dangerously close to recession,”
Morgan Stanley analysts including Chetan Ahya said today in a
report, in which they cut the firm’s forecast for global growth
to 3.9 percent, down from a previous estimate of 4.2 percent.
“Recent policy errors, especially Europe’s slow and
insufficient response to the sovereign crisis and the drama
around lifting the U.S. debt ceiling, have weighed down on
financial markets and eroded business and consumer confidence.”  Dexia, based in Brussels and Paris, reported Aug. 4 that
its central-bank borrowings had doubled to about 34 billion
euros, saying it swapped a large part of those funds into the
U.S. currency to safeguard dollar funding.  U.S. Commitments  The firm’s commitments in the U.S. include about $14
billion of standby bond purchase agreements -- guarantees to buy
municipal bonds if investors want out -- and guaranteed
investment contracts, or GICs, which municipalities buy with
money raised from bond sales pending use for schools, roads and
other public works.  “We’d love to have a reduction of the GICs because it will
help us definitely to sell the collateral in front of this
portfolio,” Dexia Chief Executive Officer Pierre Mariani told
analysts Aug. 4 on a conference call. “We are trying to
negotiate with GIC holders the unwinding of these deposits.”  Dexia said it had about 20 billion euros of liquid assets
left at the end of June which it could use as collateral to
obtain additional funds. That compares with 25 billion euros of
unsecured short-term funding.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 Dgriffin10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 