-- 
Clean Energy Bill Cutting Japan Nuclear Needs Paves Way for Kan Departure

-- B y   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e   a n d   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i
-- 
2011-08-18T15:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/clean-energy-bill-cutting-japan-nuclear-needs-paves-way-for-kan-departure.html
Japan’s lower house of parliament is
set to pass legislation to subsidize renewable energy amid a
push to reduce dependence on nuclear power, paving the way for
Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  to quit as early as next week.  The bill requires utilities to buy electricity generated by
geothermal, solar and wind sources at above-market rates in
order to stimulate investment in renewable energy, which
accounts for  9 percent  of Japan’s power supply. Kan last month
called for phasing out atomic power after the March earthquake
and tsunami caused the worst nuclear disaster in 25 years.  Passage of the bill marks the last of three legislative
goals Kan set down before fulfilling a pledge to resign. His
popularity has dropped over his handling of the quake and the
crippling of  Tokyo  Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima atomic power
plant. An opposition politician yesterday said the lower house
vote, originally scheduled for today, may be delayed.  Introducing the subsidies, known as feed-in tariffs, may
help companies like  Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. (7011) , which
makes  wind turbines  and develops geothermal plants, and solar
panels makers  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  and Sharp Corp. Japan aims to
increase the size of the renewable energy market to  10 trillion
yen  ($130 billion) by 2020, from about 1 trillion yen in 2009,
the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry said in 2010.  “The scheme will create a large market in a short time,”
said Tetsunari Iida, executive director of the Institute for
Sustainable Energy Policies in Tokyo. “It will prompt immediate
growth of related industries,” such as manufacturing and
construction.  Kan Departure  The other two pieces of legislation are the authorization
to sell bonds financing about 40 percent of this year’s budget,
which passed the lower house last week, and last month’s
enactment of a 2 trillion yen disaster relief package. The bond
and energy bills will be voted on in the upper chamber next week.  Ichiro Aisawa, parliamentary affairs chief for the main
opposition  Liberal Democratic Party , yesterday said the lower
house vote on the renewable energy bill is likely to be
postponed until next week,  Kyodo News  reported.  Katsuya Okada, the No. 2 official in Kan’s  Democratic Party
of Japan , said on Aug. 11 that the election campaign for a new
party leader will begin as soon as the bond and energy
legislation passes. Whoever heads the DPJ becomes prime minister
because of the party’s lower house majority.  Nuclear power accounted for about 31 percent of the
country’s electricity needs before the crisis, which left more
than 20,000 people dead or missing and another 80,000 homeless.  Public support for abandoning nuclear power is growing.
Almost 70 percent of respondents in an Asahi newspaper poll
published Aug. 8 said they want Kan’s successor to continue his
policy of phasing out atomic energy.  ‘Won’t Change’  “This direction won’t change” after Kan steps down, DPJ
lawmaker Nobumori Otani said. “ Japan  has clearly shifted gears
to promoting renewable energy.”  While the legislation will benefit wind and solar power
operators, the impact on geothermal power generation is
uncertain because of the long lead time to complete projects,
said Hideaki Matsui, a senior researcher at the Japan Research
Institute. Renewable energy covered in the bill also includes
biomass and hydro power.  The success of Japan’s feed-in tariff depends on pricing,
analysts say. The bill does not specify how much and how long
power suppliers will pay for renewable energy.  “If you set an attractive price, supply of clean energy is
sure to increase,” as in  Europe , said Yugo Nakamura, a Tokyo-
based analyst for Bloomberg New Energy Finance. “But it is
consumers, after all, who shoulder the cost.”  Rates  Rates for renewable energy except solar will be up to 20
yen per kilowatt hour for about 15 years, Trade Minister  Banri Kaieda  said in parliament on July 14.  The rate for solar energy could be higher, in light of a
plan introduced in 2009 to buy excess solar power. Currently the
tariff for surplus solar power generated by homes is 42 yen per
kilowatt-hour, while power produced by businesses is 40 yen.  That compares with the grid electricity price of 13.77 yen
per kilowatt hour for commercial users, according to data from
Japan’s Agency for Natural Resources and Energy.  The legislation is expected to become law as soon as Aug.
26 and effective on July 1, 2012.  Critics of the renewable energy drive include Keidanren,
Japan’s largest business lobby that includes power utilities.
Lawmakers agreed to revise the legislation to allow heavy power
users to receive a discount of 80 percent or more on the feed-in
tariffs passed on in electricity bills.  Softbank Corp. (9984)  Chief Executive Officer Masayoshi Son plans
to invest about 80 billion yen ($1 billion) to build 10 solar
farms if he gets access to transmission networks and agreement
from the 10 regional utilities to buy his electricity.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net ;
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  