-- 
Cloak Comes Off Biggest Stock Traders in SEC Monitoring Mandate

-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-08-18T04:00:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/cloak-comes-off-biggest-stock-traders-in-sec-monitoring-mandate.html
The Securities and Exchange
Commission spent 21 years seeking a system to monitor America’s
largest stock traders. It took a 20-minute market plunge to
convince the securities industry it was a good idea.  New  rules  that allow the SEC to track the 300 biggest firms
will help U.S. regulators reconstruct crashes, police violations
and curb behavior they don’t like, according to industry
executives and academics. The proposals, blocked twice by
brokerage professionals before resurfacing prior to last year’s
equity rout on May 6, were spurred by a 1990 congressional
authorization called the Market Reform Act.  “There was significant opposition, with firms raising
questions about cost and around foreign competition,” Mike
Corrao, head of compliance for equities at  Jersey City , New
Jersey-based  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG) , said in a phone
interview. The May 2010 crash that erased $862 billion from
stocks in 20 minutes persuaded brokers the SEC needs a “fast
and efficient mechanism to gather trading data from the largest
market participants,” he said.  SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  has advocated an identification
system for more than half her career. While an SEC commissioner
in 1990, she  said  the plan -- part of “awesome new powers”
from Congress -- would let the agency monitor participants that
engage in a “substantial level or value of securities trading”
and scrutinize their impact on the markets.  Unanimous Vote  The five SEC commissioners voted unanimously on July 26 to
require the largest traders to register with the SEC and brokers
to track them through identification numbers. Attempts to
approve the program in 1991 and 1994 were squashed by the
securities industry, which said compliance would be too
cumbersome and costly.  The program will allow the SEC to connect trades in one
market to stock or options transactions in another, something it
can’t currently do, said Larry Harris, a former chief economist
at the SEC who’s now a finance professor at the  University of
Southern California ’s Marshall School of Business in  Los
Angeles . That will expand knowledge of what traders are doing
and improve regulations, he said in a phone interview.  “The SEC is the primary regulator of the securities
markets and needs to be well informed,” Harris said. “They
need to know who’s trading and they need to understand the
context in which people do their trades.”  April 2010 Proposal  The large-trader reporting mandate, announced by the SEC in
October 2009 and proposed in April 2010,  augments  the Electronic
Blue Sheets system, which brokers use to respond to SEC requests
for data. Now, securities firms will be required to track the
identification number of traders and the date and time
transactions occur. Brokers must also review the market for
large traders that aren’t using an identification code.  “The politics of this changed dramatically after the
hiccup that occurred in May 2010,”  James Cox , a Duke University
law professor in Durham,  North Carolina , said in a phone
interview. “Everybody understood that we couldn’t have this
Wild West, unobserved frontier.”  Brokers and investors saw they were at risk if the SEC
couldn’t figure out what happened in the crash, Cox said. The
complexity of the U.S. securities market, with 13  stock
exchanges , more than 40 dark pools and nine options bourses,
complicates the task of compiling and analyzing data. Dark pools
are private venues that don’t display bids and offers.  May 6 Crash  The May 6 plunge prompted a review by the SEC staff that
included as much as 10 terabytes of market data, according to a
May 18, 2010, report from the agency. Twelve days after the
rout, the agency conceded that it couldn’t offer a firm answer
on what caused the selloff.  The reporting requirements will help the SEC understand how
stock market crashes happen and what the biggest firms do in
times of unusual volatility, said  Sean Culbert , a partner at
consulting firm Capco in  New York . “Root cause analysis” can’t
be conducted without knowing where trades are coming from, he
said. The system will also allow regulators to prove whether
someone front-ran a stock or basket of shares.  “If the SEC sees a pattern of trading ahead of large
blocks from the same or different organizations, it can find out
whether there’s collaboration between firms or within a firm,”
Culbert said in a phone interview. Since a broker only monitors
its own trading, “you need a regulator to understand what’s
occurring among firms,” he said.  Traders, Brokers  The SEC estimated the rule will apply to about 400 large
traders and 300 brokers, with most of the costs borne by the
securities firms. Automated trader Getco LLC in  Chicago  and fund
managers T. Rowe Price Group Inc. in Baltimore and Boston-based
Wellington Management Co. are likely to qualify, based on
letters they sent the SEC.  People or companies that transact at least 2 million shares
or $20 million of securities in a day, or 20 million shares or
$200 million in a month, are covered by the rules, according to
the SEC. The single-day share figure represents less than 0.03
percent of the average daily U.S. equities volume of 7.5 billion
shares in the first half of 2011, Bloomberg data show.  Large traders must identify themselves to the SEC by early
December. Once the SEC assigns a firm an identification number,
the trader must provide it to brokers so they can maintain
records starting in May. The data must be available to
regulators the morning after a request.  Tracking Clients  Advances in technology since the 1990s make it easier and
cheaper for brokers to track clients, Andrew M. Klein, a partner
at Schiff Hardin LLP in  Washington  who advises exchanges and
investment managers, said in a phone interview. He was director
of the SEC’s division of market regulation in the 1970s.  “Commentators said, ‘It will be very expensive, you don’t
understand the complexity of broker-dealers’ and hedge funds’
accounts, it will be a big mess and we don’t have the automation
to do this,’” Klein said. “Today, with the markets
electronically interlinked and broker-dealer automation at a
high level, the large-trader system doesn’t pose the
technological challenges it did in the early 1990s.”  SEC officials in the 1990s wanted to understand how
unregulated hedge funds affected the market. Now regulators want
more data on high-frequency traders, whose computers send,
update and cancel orders in fractions of a second. Firms that
rely on the techniques account for more than half the volume in
U.S. equity markets, the SEC said last year.  August Plunge  From Aug. 1 through Aug. 10, when the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index plunged 13.3 percent amid surging volatility, high-
frequency firms tripled their volume and may have accounted for
75 percent of U.S. shares changing hands, estimated Gary Wedbush, executive vice president at investment bank Wedbush
Inc., whose broker subsidiary services many of the firms.
Wedbush was the largest provider of liquidity, or bids to buy
shares and offers to sell, on the Nasdaq Stock Market in the
first six months of this year, according to  exchange data .  The SEC predicted it would send 100 requests for large-
trader data annually to each affected broker. It issued 5,168
blue-sheet requests from the beginning of 2007 through the first
half of 2009. While fewer inquiries will be issued to the
biggest traders, they’ll cover more securities and longer time
periods, the SEC said.  ‘Piece it Together’  Elizabeth Derbes, a New York-based partner at Wilmer Cutler
Pickering Hale & Dorr LLP who works with broker-dealers on
regulation and compliance, said that while the SEC can now
gradually compile the data it will soon be able to access more
easily, “as a practical matter it would have been very tough to
piece it together.”  “It’s a big win for the regulatory world,” Culbert said.
“If they can execute more exams for less money, then it’s a
good thing.” The efficiency of SEC examinations should increase
and “if the SEC is going down a not-useful path, they can cut
their losses quicker,” he said.  Regulators will be able to figure out who’s doing what “as
of T-plus-1,” Dan Mathisson, New York-based head of electronic
and program trading at  Credit Suisse Group AG (CS) , said in a phone
interview, referring to the day after the transaction date. That
will give the SEC information they need “to be more proactive
and address issues quicker,” he said.  Should buying increase before a takeover, the SEC can
quickly see who the biggest acquirers were and whether their
behavior raises questions, Mathisson said. They can also track
anyone engaged in a practice known as quote stuffing, or the
rapid submission and cancellation of orders, he said.  Program Payments  Programming and testing computer systems to comply with the
large-trader rules will cost $31.8 million for all 300 brokers,
the SEC said. Annual  reporting requirement  expenses will be
$16.2 million while monitoring for unidentified traders will be
$4 million initially and $1.2 million a year. The total initial
cost for the 400 large traders to register with the SEC and give
their identification codes to brokers will be $1.3 million, with
$998,000 incurred annually, the SEC estimated.  Knight’s Corrao said the estimates are probably too low for
brokers. He cited the cost of establishing the tracking
procedures, checking the reports and monitoring customers for
the presence of unidentified large traders.  Derbes said in a phone interview that fund managers and
trading firms may struggle to quantify whether they qualify for
the program. Compelling some affiliates to use the SEC-assigned
number may be “similarly tricky,” she said.  Affiliate Control  “It could be operationally difficult for them to keep
track of this,” Derbes said. “Some of these may be far-flung,
minority-owned affiliates, including foreign affiliates.”  U.S. regulators may also have to improve computer systems
to deal with their new data-gathering capabilities.  “The SEC needs to be better equipped to analyze the data
it collects,” said Harris, the former chief economist at the
securities commission. “The SEC has some quantitative expertise
but would need a lot more resources to effectively analyze these
data.”  Large-trader reporting will also strengthen the SEC’s
planned consolidated audit trail that will aggregate all
quotation and trading information for U.S. securities. The
commission proposed the system on May 26, 2010, less than three
weeks after the May 6 plunge. Identifying large traders will let
the agency see what the biggest players did at times of market
stress, Duke’s Cox said.  The audit trail is projected to cost exchanges and brokers
$4 billion to build and $2.1 billion a year to maintain, the SEC
initially said. Klein, the former head of the SEC’s market
regulation division, said one area the agency will be able to
investigate once the programs are running is so-called mini
crashes that occur in individual stocks.  ‘Any Millisecond’  “The SEC will be able to figure out why there’s an
imbalance in supply and demand right at any millisecond,” he
said. “If they find a concentration of activity that affected a
particular stock or vulnerable part of the market, they can
investigate it. Today, being unable to see who the large
participants are isn’t acceptable.”  Although identification of the biggest firms will give the
SEC tools to analyze fast-paced markets and pursue violations of
 securities law , proving a trader tried to manipulate prices or
influence supply and demand will remain difficult, Cox said.  “The SEC will have better insight into what happens with
the pricing of securities and is likely to adopt rules that will
be prophylactic, which will make it less likely that market
manipulation could occur,” Cox said. “But we won’t judge the
success of these programs by how many scalps are hung up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 