-- 
Scolded Colombian Executives Borrowing Overseas at Fastest Pace Since 1999

-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 
2011-08-18T20:04:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/colombia-may-seek-to-stem-overseas-borrowing-at-12-year-high.html
Colombian companies are borrowing
the most money overseas in at least 12 years, spurring
speculation that policy makers will rein in the credit boom as
part of an effort to stem the peso’s rally.  Foreign net loans jumped to $1.11 billion in the first
seven months of the year, the most since the  central bank  began
collecting the data in 1999, from a net decline of $184 million
a year earlier. The companies are taking advantage of the near-
zero benchmark interest rate in the U.S. to borrow more cheaply
than in  Colombia , where the  interbank rate  is 4.5 percent.  “The peso’s appreciation is clearly something that worries
the central bank,” said  Andres Pardo , the head analyst at
financial services holding company Corp. Financiera Colombiana,
known as Corficolombiana. Policy makers “will seek to limit the
significant growth in external borrowing,” he said.  Developing nations from  Brazil  to  South Korea  are seeking
to curb currency gains that are hurting exporters and limiting
job growth. Colombia’s Banco de la Republica may impose limits
on overseas bank loans as soon as tomorrow when central bankers
hold their monthly meeting, according to Pardo and Daniel Nino,
the head analyst at Bancolombia SA, the nation’s biggest bank.  Echeverry Calls  Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry, a member of the
central bank’s board, said in an Aug. 8 interview with Caracol
Radio that dollars are pouring into the country as “big”
companies borrow abroad. Echeverry said he called the companies
to warn them that the stronger currency is undermining the
economy and to urge them to “make money from what you know how
to do and don’t get into a market you don’t understand.”  Colombia’s peso is the best performing currency in  Latin
America  this year, strengthening 7.4 percent to 1,777 per
dollar, compared with the Brazilian real’s 3.9 percent advance
and the Peruvian’s sol’s 2.4 percent appreciation.  The central bank in 2007 ordered Colombian companies and
investors that took out overseas loans to deposit 40 percent of
the funds in the central bank for six months, reducing the
incentive to bring in short-term capital. The measure, a bid to
stem gains in the peso, was scrapped in 2008.  Seeking to put a brake on the peso’s rally, Echeverry said
in April that the government would create an overseas fund with
as much as $1.2 billion from dollars bought in the local market,
and forgo repatriating funds from abroad for the rest of the
year. The central bank has bought a minimum of $20 million daily
in the  currency market  since Sept. 15. It plans to keep up the
purchases until at least Sept. 30.  Ministers Meet  Regional finance ministers met this month at the urging of
Colombian President  Juan Manuel Santos  to discuss ways to
protect their economies and the value of their record $700
billion in foreign currency reserves from a deteriorating U.S.
and European economic outlook. The  Federal Reserve  pledged last
week to keep its benchmark interest rate at record low levels at
least through the middle of 2013 in a bid to shore up the
flagging U.S. economic recovery.  In a speech yesterday in Santiago,  Chile , Santos warned
authorities in Latin America against taking a passive approach
to currency appreciation that diminishes the region’s
competiveness in export markets.  Minutes  of the central bank’s July 29 meeting showed one
board member disagreed with the move to raise borrowing costs to
4.5 percent, noting that higher rates could lead to more dollar
inflows and a further expansion of credit.  ‘No Rush’  “We could end up feeding what we seek to control:
inflation,” the board member said, according to the minutes.  The central bank will raise the overnight lending rate by a
quarter percentage point to 4.75 percent at the meeting
tomorrow, according to 20 of 34 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. The other 14 analysts expect rates to stay at 4.5
percent.  Daniel Velandia, the head analyst at Bogota-based brokerage
Correval SA, said the central bank will likely wait until the
peso strengthens beyond 1,730 per dollar to impose limits on
external borrowing. The peso weakened to as low as 1,929.53 at
the beginning of the year before gaining to as strong as 1,742.5
in July.  “There’s no rush while the peso” remains weaker than
1,750, Velandia said. “Once it gets closer to 1,700 is really
when we’ll see” policy makers announce new measures.  Rate Increases  Bancolombia’s Nino estimates a company in Colombia pays on
average about 5.5 percent interest on loans that are less than
six months. The  interest rate  on the same loan abroad would be
about 1.5 percent, with the cost rising to about 3 percent when
factoring in currency hedging, he said. Gross foreign borrowing
jumped to $5.09 billion in the first seven months of the year,
up from $3.76 billion a year earlier, according to the central
bank.  An official from the central bank declined to comment.  The increase in foreign borrowing is offsetting the impact
of the central bank’s six interest-rate increases this year,
which were designed to slow economic growth and keep inflation
in check, Nino said.  Colombia’s economy expanded 5.1 percent in the first
quarter, and the government estimates it will grow about 6
percent this year. Annual inflation was 3.42 percent in July,
within the central bank’s 2 percent to 4 percent 2011 target.  “The economy is like a speeding car, and right now the
central bank has one foot on the accelerator and one foot on the
brake,” said Nino. Banco de la Republica “needs to resolve the
issues with external borrowing,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  