-- 
Consumer Prices in U.S. Probably Stabilized

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-08-18T04:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/consumer-prices-in-u-s-probably-stabilized-as-economy-slowed.html
The cost of living in the U.S.
probably barely rose in July, supporting Federal Reserve
projections that inflation will start to stabilize, economists
said before a report today.  Consumer prices excluding volatile food and fuel costs
climbed 0.2 percent, the smallest gain in three months,
according to the median forecast of 83 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Other reports may show the number of claims for
jobless benefits and sales of existing homes rose.  Lower energy and other commodity costs are allowing
companies like  Sara Lee Corp. (SLE)  and J.M. Smucker Co. to hold the
line on retail prices, one source of relief for customers faced
with a stagnant labor market. Less inflation also means Fed
policy makers have the flexibility to loosen monetary policy
further should the world’s largest economy stumble.  “Inflation is leveling off as energy prices have come
down,” said Jennifer Lee, a senior economist at BMO Capital
Markets in Toronto. “This environment of modest U.S. growth is
not going to put pressure on consumer prices, so the Fed isn’t
too worried about inflation. Joblessness and the economy are
bigger issues for them right now.”  The Labor Department’s consumer-price index is due at 8:30
a.m. in  Washington . Including food and energy, the gauge climbed
0.2 percent in July after a 0.2 percent drop, the Bloomberg
survey showed. Economists’ estimates ranged from a 0.1 percent
drop to gains of 0.6 percent.  Versus Last Year  Compared with July 2010, the CPI may have increased 3.3
percent, less than the 3.6 percent gain in the 12 months to
June.  Also at 8:30 a.m., another Labor Department report may show
the number of Americans filing applications for jobless benefits
climbed to 400,000 last week, from a four-month low of 395,000
the prior week, according to the Bloomberg survey median.
Estimates ranged from 390,000 to 420,000.  The CPI is the broadest of three price gauges from the
Labor Department because it includes goods and services. Almost
60 percent of the index covers prices consumers pay for services
ranging from medical visits to airline fares, movie tickets and
rents.  Earlier this week, reports showed producer prices rose more
than forecast in July, led by higher tobacco, trucks and
pharmaceuticals, while the cost of goods imported into the U.S.
also climbed.  Core Rate  Today’s report may also show the so-called core CPI, which
excludes food and fuel, rose 1.7 percent over the past 12 months
after a 1.6 percent year-over-year gain in June. The Fed’s
informal target range for longer-term  core inflation  is 1.7
percent to 2 percent as measured by a Commerce Department gauge
tied to  consumer spending .  With the economic recovery showing signs of stress, the Fed
on Aug. 9 pledged to keep its benchmark  interest rate  at a
record low at least through mid-2013 and said it is “prepared
to employ” policy tools to promote growth.  The “downside risks to the economic outlook have
increased,” the  Federal Open Market Committee  said in a
statement. “Inflation has moderated as prices of energy and
some commodities have declined from their earlier peaks.”  The Fed also said “inflation will settle, over coming
quarters, at levels at or below those consistent with the
Committee’s dual mandate” of maximum employment and price
stability.  Jimmy Dean Sausage  Companies holding the line on prices include  Downers Grove ,
Illinois-based Sara Lee. The maker of food products such as
Jimmy Dean sausages said it raised prices in the year ended July
2, and may not need to do much more.  “As we start the new year, we have all the price increases
in place to deal with the commodity costs as we currently see
them,”  Marcel Smits , chief executive officer, said on an Aug.
11 teleconference with investors. “That means that we have some
firepower to, where necessary, dial back at a tactical level on
prices wherever we need it in order to protect our share.”  Some are going a step further. Orrville, Ohio-based J.M.
Smucker on Aug. 16 announced an average 6 percent price cut on
its retail coffee products under the Folgers and Dunkin’ Donuts
brands, driven by declines in the green coffee futures market.  With slower U.S. growth and concerns about European debt,
investors have been snapping up Treasuries. Since the end of
June, the yield on the benchmark 10-year note has dropped 1
percentage point to 2.16 percent as of late yesterday from 3.16
percent.  Weakest Link  The housing market remains the economy’s weakest link. At
10 a.m., the National Association of Realtors may report that
sales of previously owned houses climbed to a 4.9 million annual
pace in July from a seven-month low in June, according to the
Bloomberg survey median. The projected July figure trails the 5
million average pace of the first six months of this year.  Manufacturing, which accounts for 12 percent of the
economy, has started to cool along with the global economy.
Economists forecast the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s
general economic index, due at 10 a.m., was 2 this month after
3.2 in July. Readings greater than zero signal expansion in the
area covering eastern  Pennsylvania , southern  New Jersey  and
 Delaware .  A third report at 10 a.m. will show the Conference Board’s
index of leading indicators grew 0.2 percent in July after a 0.3
percent gain a month earlier, according to the median forecast
in a Bloomberg survey. The measure points to the direction of
the economy for the next three to six months, and July’s
increase may be the smallest since a decline in April.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  