-- 
U.S. Economy: Consumer Prices Climb, Manufacturing Falters

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a   a n d   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-08-18T20:08:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/consumer-prices-in-u-s-increased-more-than-forecast-in-july.html
The cost of living in the U.S.
climbed more than forecast in July, which could make it harder
for Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  to convince
colleagues to immediately act to spur growth after manufacturing
in the Philadelphia region plunged in August.  The consumer-price index increased 0.5 percent from June,
more than twice the 0.2 percent median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News, figures from the Labor Department
showed today in  Washington . The Philadelphia Fed’s general
economic index dropped to minus 30.7 this month, the lowest
since March 2009, when the economy was in a recession.  Stocks slumped and  gold prices  soared to a record as the
data showed the world’s largest economy was in danger of
shrinking even as inflation picked up. Another report showed
fewer Americans on average filed claims for  unemployment
benefits  over the past month, indicating the job market is
holding up for now.  “There’s a tremendous loss of momentum,” said  John Herrmann , senior fixed-income strategist at State Street Global
Markets LLC in  Boston , who projected manufacturing would
contract. “Increasing evidence that the economy is drifting
closer to a recession could prompt Chairman Bernanke into action
before year-end,” Herrmann said. At the same time, Herrmann
said, the cost-of-living data may limit his options: “The
inflation figures don’t yet give the Fed the ammunition to roll
out a new round of non-conventional monetary easing.”  Shares Plunge  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 4.5 percent to
1,140.65 at the 4 p.m. close in New York on signs the economy is
slowing and European banks lack sufficient capital.  Treasury
securities  surged, sending the yield on the benchmark 10-year
note down to 2.08 percent from 2.17 percent late yesterday, and
gold futures for December delivery reached an intra-day high of
$1,832 an ounce.  Other reports today showed the residential real-estate
market continues to stagnate and consumers’ economic
expectations plunged. Additionally, the index of leading
indicators climbed, boosted by an increase in money supply that
may reflect a flight to safety.  Figures from the Labor Department today showed the average
number of workers filing applications for jobless benefits over
the past four weeks dropped to 402,500, the lowest since April
16. The weekly readings, which tend to be more volatile, showed
claims climbed by 9,000 to 408,000 in the period ended Aug. 13,
the highest in a month.  These data are “not recession material,” said  Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi
UFJ Ltd., in  New York . The plunge in stocks in recent weeks
“could start to worry businesses enough for them to lay off
workers,” Rupkey said. Nonetheless, claims show “this is not
happening yet, but we need to watch closely for the next couple
of weeks.”  Depths of Recession  The number of applications reached 659,000 in late March
2009 at the depths of the last recession.  Consumer prices were pushed higher by rising costs for fuel
that have since retreated, and by an increase in food expenses.
Excluding energy and food costs, which are usually more
volatile, the so-called core gauge rose 0.2 percent, pushing the
increase over the past year to a greater-than-projected 1.8
percent. It was the biggest 12-month gain in more than a year.  The Fed’s informal target range for longer-term  core
inflation  is 1.7 percent to 2 percent as measured by a Commerce
Department gauge tied to  consumer spending .  With the economic recovery showing signs of stress, the Fed
on Aug. 9 pledged to keep its benchmark  interest rate  at a
record low at least through mid-2013 and said it is “prepared
to employ” policy tools to promote growth.  Fed Debate  Rising inflation may intensify debate among policy makers
after three regional Fed Bank presidents voted against last
week’s decision, the most dissent in almost 19 years.  The forecast gain in consumer prices was based on the
median of 86 economists in a Bloomberg survey. Estimates ranged
from a decline of 0.1 percent to a gain of 0.6 percent.  The results included a jump in rents, the biggest component
of CPI, and increases in apparel, tobacco and medicines.
Mounting foreclosures are reducing homeownership while boosting
demand for rental housing.  Sales of previously owned homes unexpectedly dropped in
July, reflecting an increase in contract cancellations due to
strict lending rules and low appraisals, according to a report
today from the National Association of Realtors. Purchases
decreased 3.5 percent to a 4.67 million annual rate, the weakest
since November. About 16 percent of real estate agents polled
said they had at least one pending contract canceled last month.  Growing Pessimism  Consumer confidence  in the economic outlook slumped in
August to the lowest level since the recession, another report
showed. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index’s monthly
expectations gauge dropped to minus 34, the weakest since March
2009, from minus 22 in July. The weekly measure of current
conditions was minus 48.3 for the period ended Aug. 14 compared
with minus 49.1, which was the worst reading since mid-May.  Shoppers at  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s largest
retailer, continue to be “strained” by economic conditions,
Charles Holley, chief financial officer at the Bentonville,
Arkansas-based company, said in a conference call with reporters
this week. Consumers’ biggest concern is unemployment, rather
than fuel or food costs, he said.  Also today, the Conference Board’s gauge leading economic
indicators, a measure of the outlook for the next three to six
months, climbed 0.5 percent after a 0.3 percent gain in June,
the New York-based research group said.  A flight to cash in a bid for safety from volatile equity
markets likely boosted the money supply last month signaling
that the increase may reflect lagging investor confidence.  “With the exception of  money supply  and interest rate
components, other leading indicators show greater weakness --
consistent with increasing concerns about the health of the
economic expansion,”  Ataman Ozyildirim , an economist at the
Conference Board, said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra at   schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  