-- 
Copper Slides as Banks Cut Estimates for Global, Chinese Economic Growth

-- B y   Y i   T i a n   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 
2011-08-18T18:02:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/copper-slides-as-banks-cut-estimates-for-global-chinese-economic-growth.html
Copper fell the most in more than a
week after Morgan Stanley and Deutsche Bank AG cut their
forecasts for economic growth worldwide and in  China , the
biggest user of the metal.  The global economy will expand 3.9 percent this year, down
from a forecast of 4.2 percent, Morgan Stanley said. Deutsche
Bank reduced its China-growth outlook to 8.9 percent from 9.1
percent. More Americans than forecast filed applications for
 unemployment benefits  last week, a government report showed
today. The U.S. is the second-largest copper user.  “The markets continue to fret about global-growth
prospects as the rate of deceleration is becoming broader and
deeper,”  Edward Meir , a senior analyst at MF Global Holdings
Ltd. in Darien,  Connecticut , said in a report. “We expect to
see a continued sideways drift, with a downward bias in most
markets over the short term.”  Copper futures for December delivery slid 6.7 cents, or 1.7
percent, to close at $3.986 a pound at 1:15 p.m. on the Comex in
 New York , the biggest drop for a most-active contract since Aug.
8. The price has dropped 4.6 percent this month.  Morgan Stanley also cut its estimate for China’s growth
next year to 8.7 percent from 9 percent, citing the effects of
weaker economies in the U.S. and  Europe . Expansion in China in
2012 will be 8.3 percent, down from 8.6 percent, Deutsche Bank
said, citing the “shock” of a U.S. and European Union
slowdown.  “On more a medium- to longer-term outlook, it’s likely
that demand for commodities is at risk, and we’d expect
commodity prices to reflect that over the coming weeks,” Angus Staines, an analyst at UBS AG in  London , said in a telephone
interview.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials fell
more than 3 percent, led by energy.  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months dropped $195, or 2.2 percent, to $8,770 a metric ton
($3.98 a pound).  Aluminum, lead, nickel, tin and zinc also fell in London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  