-- 
Corn Falls Most in More Than a Week as Rains in U.S. May Ease Crop Stress

-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r   a n d   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-08-18T11:13:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/corn-soybean-futures-decline-as-rains-in-u-s-may-help-ease-crop-stress.html
Corn and wheat fell the most in more
than a week in  Chicago  on speculation rains will boost crop
prospects in the U.S., the biggest exporter of the grains.  The western Midwest will have increasing showers over the
next few days, and that pattern may shift into the eastern
Midwest during the weekend, helping support corn and soybeans,
Telvent DTN Inc. said in a forecast yesterday. Rain may fall in
northern regions of the winter-wheat belt, improving prospects
for planting of the crop, the forecaster said.  “Rains at this sort of critical crop development are
always good,” Victor Thianpiriya, an agricultural commodity
analyst at Australia & New Zealand Group Ltd., said by phone
from  Melbourne  today.  Corn for December delivery dropped 8 cents, or 1.1 percent,
to $7.175 a bushel by 11:40 a.m. London time on the Chicago
Board of Trade. Prices slid as much as 1.2 percent, the most
since Aug. 9.  Wheat for December delivery fell 15.25 cents, or 2 percent,
to $7.4275 a bushel. Prices declined as much as 2.3 percent, the
most since Aug. 8, after gaining for three sessions on
speculation winter-wheat planting would drop as dry weather
persists.  Dryness in the U.S. northern Plains, where spring wheat is
grown, will speed local harvesting, Telvent DTN said.  “Spring wheat through  North Dakota  may benefit as drier
weather is forecast during the next five to seven days,”
forecaster Joel Burgio said. “Cooler weather may again slow
development of this crop later in this period.”  Milling wheat for November delivery traded on NYSE Liffe in
Paris fell 2.25 euros, or 1.1 percent, to 197.75 euros ($284.28)
a metric ton.  Soybeans for November delivery fell 9.25 cents, or 0.7
percent, to $13.575 a bushel in Chicago.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  