-- 
Costliest Texas Drought May Mean Lower Tyson Costs as Beef Supplies Gain

-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 
2011-08-18T12:47:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/costliest-texas-drought-may-mean-lower-tyson-costs-as-beef-supplies-gain.html
The costliest drought in  Texas 
history probably forced ranchers to sell the most cattle to
feedlots since December, signaling a surge in U.S. meat supply
that may cut costs for processors including  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN)   Feedlot operators in the U.S. bought 2.051 million head of
cattle last month, up 17 percent from a year earlier, based on
the average of 13 estimates in a Bloomberg survey of analysts.
The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  is scheduled to report
inventories at 3 p.m. tomorrow in  Washington . Texas is the
biggest cattle-producing state.  The Texas drought, the worst in more than a century, has
spurred a record $5.2 billion in farm losses, according to a
unit of  Texas A&M University . Costs to livestock producers may
total $2.06 billion partly as ranchers are forced to sell cattle
because parched pastures have boosted feed costs. Rising supply
may mean cheaper beef for retailers and restaurants such as
 Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc. (CMG) , which increased menu prices to
combat food inflation.  “Everybody is looking for a big placement because there
isn’t any range left anywhere in the southern U.S.,” Bob Price,
a livestock analyst at North American Risk Management, said by
telephone.  Rising feedlot placements “casts doubts” that cattle
prices can remain high, Price said in a report. He forecast a 24
percent increase in placements, the second-highest among the
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Cattle Futures  Cattle futures, which last week traded within 0.5 percent
of a record $1.21625 a pound, may drop to $1.10 by December,
said Troy Vetterkind, the owner of Vetterkind Cattle Brokerage.
Easing prices may bring relief to beef consumers after the
wholesale cost of the meat climbed 13 percent this year,
touching $1.9196 a pound on April 5, the highest since at least
2002.  Much of Texas,  Oklahoma  and surrounding states are
suffering from “exceptional” drought, the most-severe rating
giving by the University of  Nebraska  at Lincoln’s U.S. Drought
 Monitor . The past 10 months have been the driest ever in Texas.
Pasture and range conditions were rated “very poor” or
“poor” in 96 percent of the state, USDA  data  show.  In the U.S., the world’s leading beef producer and second-
largest exporter, feedlots buy year-old cattle that weigh 500
pounds (227 kilograms) to 800 pounds, called feeders. It takes
about four or five months on a diet of typically corn before the
animals weigh about 1,200 pounds, when they are sold to
meatpackers.  Brazil  is the top shipper.  ‘Prices Come Down’  “When you have an increase in placements, prices will
usually come down,” said Ann H. Gurkin, an analyst at Richmond,
Virginia-based Davenport & Co. who has a “buy” rating on
Tyson. Meat-processor “demand is steady for cattle, and exports
will remain strong,” she said.  Cattle futures for October delivery dropped 2.3 percent to
$1.174 a pound on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange yesterday, the
biggest decline since May. The price has surged 22 percent in
the past year as importers increased demand for U.S. beef.  In the first half of 2011, U.S. exporters shipped 620,851
metric tons (1.4 billion pounds) of beef, up 25 percent from
2010, while the value of shipments jumped 40 percent, the U.S.
Meat Export Federation said on Aug. 12.  Springdale, Arkansas-based Tyson, a processor of beef,
poultry and pork that is the biggest U.S. meat company, declined
to comment on how an increase in placements might affect its
business.  Retail Beef  Consumers may pay as much as 8 percent more for beef this
year, the biggest gain of any food group, according to the most
recent USDA  forecast . U.S. retail-beef  prices  rose to $4.443 a
pound in June, near the record $4.444 in April, the USDA said on
July 15.  Denver-based Chipotle will increase menu prices at most of
its restaurants as costs increased for avocados and meat,
primarily beef, Chief Financial Officer Jack Hartung  said  in a
July 19 conference call.  The total feedlot herd probably totaled 10.577 million head
on Aug. 1, up 7.1 percent from a year earlier, according to the
Bloomberg survey. That would be the biggest for the month since
2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in Chicago at 
 bchappatta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 