-- 
TCW Chief Stern Says He Fired Gundlach Because Company Was ‘Threatened’

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-08-19T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/tcw-chief-stern-says-he-fired-gundlach-because-company-was-threatened-.html
TCW Group Inc. Chief Executive
Officer Marc Stern said he fired  Jeffrey Gundlach  in December
2009 because Gundlach was plotting the take TCW’s clients and
portfolios to his own firm.  Stern testified yesterday in the trial that pits Gundlach
and three other former TCW executives against the asset-
management firm. Stern said he made the decision to fire
Gundlach, TCW’s chief investment officer and head of its fixed-
income group, because the company was being “threatened” and
“in the process of being destroyed.”  “He was the most important portfolio manager at the firm,
managing 60 percent of the assets,” Stern told the jury in
California state court in  Los Angeles .  TCW, based in Los Angeles, fired Gundlach, 51, in December
2009 and sued him the following month after more than half of
its fixed-income professionals joined his new firm. TCW, a unit
of Paris-based  Societe Generale  SA, seeks $375 million in
damages, claiming Gundlach stole its  trade secrets , including
client portfolio data, to start DoubleLine Capital LP.  Gundlach, who had worked at TCW for 25 years and who was
named Morningstar’s Fixed Income Manager of the Year in 2006,
countersued, saying TCW fired him to avoid having to pay
management and performance fees for the distressed-asset funds
his group managed and that went “through the roof.” Gundlach
seeks about $500 million.  ‘Right Arm’  Stern told the jurors that he had no intention of getting
rid of Gundlach in the summer of 2009, after Stern had been
asked to return to day-to-day management of TCW. Gundlach and
other group managers at TCW had opposed the return of Stern, who
had retired as president in 2005, and had wanted instead a
management committee to be put in charge.  “It would be like cutting off your right arm,” Stern said
under questioning by TCW lawyer John Quinn. “He was the most
important person at the firm.”  Gundlach’s fixed-income group managed more than half of
TCW’s $110 billion assets under management. He has denied that
he wanted to leave TCW and testified that he only started to
make plans to set up his own company, including registering a
shell company in  Delaware  and looking for  office space , in late
2009 because he was afraid he was getting fired.  Stern testified that his “single most important concern”
when he returned to TCW in June 2009 was whether Gundlach was
committed to staying at the company. Gundlach was an at-will
employee without a signed contract in 2009 and had been in talks
with a rival asset manager earlier that year, Stern said.  ‘Horror Scenario’  In his trial testimony, Gundlach said that he spoke with
Western Asset Management Co. about moving the funds he managed
at TCW over there in February 2009, after Societe Generale had
announced they wanted to exit the asset-management business. A
proposal he got from Wamco in June 2009 was a non-starter and he
didn’t read a follow-up proposal, Gundlach said.  Stern also said he was concerned for a “horror scenario”
where TCW might have to fire Gundlach for doing something
illegal or something that crossed the line in a regulated
industry.  The jurors were shown Stern’s notes for a June 2009 meeting
with TCW Chairman  Robert Day , shortly before Stern’s official
start as chief executive, that referred to “Project G.”  Stern said the project involved finding a way to make
Gundlach committed to staying at TCW as well as creating a
contingency plan should Gundlach leave or be terminated. He got
a list of mortgage-backed securities managers that he might
“parachute in” to take over Gundlach’s group but didn’t
contact any of them, Stern said.  Stern is expected to continue his testimony when the trial
resumes Aug. 24. He hasn’t yet been cross-examined by
DoubleLine’s lawyers.  The case is Trust Co. of the West v. Gundlach, BC429385,
California Superior Court, Los Angeles County.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  