-- 
Czech Koruna May Be Next Franc, Record Says

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-08-18T08:02:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/czech-koruna-may-be-next-franc-before-euro-qe-record-plc-says.html
Record Plc (REC) , a London-based currency
manager that oversees $31.4 billion, said the  Czech koruna  is
poised to be one of the next havens if Europe’s debt crisis
worsens, given the Swiss franc has stabilized after surging.  “We’ve exhausted the move in the franc now and we’re
looking for other alternatives,” Bob Noyen, Record’s chief
investment officer, said in an interview. “The market will
constantly probe for the next outlet. The Czech koruna and other
harder eastern European currencies also have the potential to
benefit.”  Record, which set up a fund in June that aims to exploit
market moves when stress in Europe’s debt crisis intensifies,
also recommends using interest-rate derivatives to profit from
speculation that the  European Central Bank  will be forced to
resort to so-called quantitative easing. The ECB has succeeded
in pushing down Italian and Spanish bond yields this month,
while the franc has receded from near-parity with the euro.  “When things are calm, we buy cheap insurance for when the
fear returns,” said James Wood-Collins, Record’s chief
executive officer. “The stresses could remain unresolved for a
period of one to two years.”  The koruna has strengthened 2.4 percent against the euro
this year as Czech policy makers debate whether to raise
interest rates. Moody’s Investors Service affirmed its A1
rating, the fifth-highest, on the  Czech Republic  on Aug. 4 and
said strong finances will shield it from the crisis.  Options Pay Out  Europe ’s debt crisis and the global economic slowdown may
drive investors to Czech  government bonds  as low interest rates
and a stable currency make the country “the safe haven” of
emerging Europe, UniCredit SpA said on Aug. 2.  The Swiss franc soared more than 23 percent from its April
low this year against the euro to a record 1.00749 per euro on
Aug. 9 as debt-crisis contagion spread to Italy and  Spain . It
also set a dollar record as  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded the
U.S. The gains prompted the Swiss National Bank to fight back
with measures to weaken the currency.  “We bought options some time ago that were very far out of
the money for the Swiss franc, and now they would pay out,”
Noyen said in the interview on Aug. 10. The franc traded at
1.03002 against the euro that day, and has subsequently
retreated about 13 percent.  Among other foreign-exchange havens, “commodity currencies
are the obvious ones,” as well as the Swedish krona and
Norwegian krone, Noyen said.  The ECB started buying Italian and Spanish securities last
week, according to people with knowledge of the trades. It had
previously bought bonds from  Greece , Portugal and Ireland. So
far it has offset all of its purchases of government debt by
absorbing the equivalent amount from banks via term deposits, a
process known as sterilization. Quantitative easing occurs when
bond purchases aren’t sterilized.  “ Interest rates  are next,” Noyen said. “People will
probably start to bet that the European Central Bank will
monetize countries’ debt. That risks triggering a bout of
inflation that would push up longer-term interest rates of the
high-grade borrowers, such as  Germany .”  -- With assistance from Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague. Editors:
Keith Campbell, Mark McCord.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  