-- 
Dallara Says ECB Is ‘Stretched’ by Sovereign Bond Purchases

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r
-- 
2011-08-18T12:12:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/dallara-says-ecb-is-stretched-by-sovereign-bond-purchases-1-.html
The  European Central Bank  is “being
stretched” in its current role as buyer of last resort for
European sovereign debt, said  Charles Dallara , managing director
of the Institute of International Finance.  The ECB’s burden will be eased in late September or early
October, when European governments approve changes to a rescue
fund, Dallara said today in an interview with Bloomberg
Television. Euro-area leaders in July announced plans to allow
the European Financial Stability Facility to buy bonds on the
secondary market.  “Ultimately the burden on the ECB is going to need to be
eased by some degree of fiscal integration and fiscal
consolidation,” Dallara said.  The IIF, which represents more than 400 banks and insurance
companies, has been a central player in efforts to coordinate a
private-sector role in the next bailout of  Greece .  The rescue package, the second received by Greece, calls
for investors to contribute about 50 billion euros ($72
billion). So far, 39 banks from  Germany , France and other
European nations have agreed to participate, according to the
IIF’s website.  “It’s a solid deal,” Dallara said. “It will come together
successfully over the course of the coming weeks.”  The market’s current concerns are broader than worries over
whether the Greek rescue package will be completed on time,
Dallara said. Markets and governments are in a “tug of war” over
the pace of fiscal integration within  Europe .  “The markets have not yet seen the conviction, the
timetable, the force and breadth of determination that they are
looking for toward fiscal integration,” Dallara said.  “Governments have to realize that there is no obligation to
markets to come in and buy billions of dollars worth of Italian
government paper or Spanish government paper every week,” he
said. “The governments have little option but to actually
strengthen their credibility with the markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  