-- 
Dallas Airport Doubles Refinancing as 30-Day Issuance Grows: Muni Credit

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e   a n d   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 
2011-08-18T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/dallas-airport-doubles-refinancing-as-30-day-issuance-grows-muni-credit.html
The Dallas-Fort Worth International
Airport, the world’s  eighth-busiest , doubled a refunding deal to
$222 million as municipal issuers returned to sell in the next
30 days to take advantage of record-low yields.  Ten-year tax-exempt yields fell yesterday to a new low for
the year of 2.26 percent, or 1.22 percentage points less than
the year’s high on Jan. 18, offering issuers lower borrowing
costs. Top-rated 30-year tax-exempt yields were 3.9 percent
yesterday, compared with 5.09 percent Jan. 17, the highest for
2011.  The sale of tax-exempt Series 2011D refunding bonds, which
are backed by airport revenue, was originally slated for
September, Michael Phemister, the  airport ’s vice president of
treasury management said in a telephone interview from  New York .
The decline in yields prompted it to bring the deal forward and
more than double its size from $105 million.  “With the interest-rate environment, we decided to move
the deal up a month,” Phemister said. “And right now it’s
looking like that was a very good decision.”  The low yields enabled Phemister to include additional
maturities and series in the refinancing. The bonds are rated
A1, the fifth-highest grade from Moody’s Investors Service.  The refunding generated net present value savings of about
$15 million, Phemister added.  Largest Segment  The largest segment of the offer is $97.4 million of 24-
year debt with a yield of 4.66 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s 35 basis points below an index of
similarly rated 25-year transportation bonds. An A1 rated tax-
exempt Dallas-Fort Worth Airport revenue bond sold in 2010 and
maturing November 2045 traded yesterday at an average yield of
4.97 percent.  The third-biggest tranche is a 10-year segment and was
priced to yield 3.04 percent, 40 basis points below a transport
bond index with the same rating.  Municipal issuance in the next 30 days totals $8.7 billion
as of yesterday, recovering from last week’s dip to $5.05
billion and compared with the year’s low of $3 billion on April
29, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. So far this year,
the highest one-month schedule for issuance was $11.3 billion on
July 14.  The increase in future debt sales is due in part to low
 interest rates  and the resolution in  Washington  to approve
additional U.S. borrowing to help avoid a default, said  Tom Kozlik , director of municipal credit analysis for Philadelphia
brokerage Janney Montgomery Scott.  Terminal Upgrades  Dallas-Fort Worth Airport will issue new debt in early
2012, Phemister said. The airport will sell about $3 billion of
new-money bonds in the next five to seven years to upgrade four
terminals that are 35 years old, he said.  The carriers operating at the airport have agreed to
additional fees to support the debt and include American
Airlines Inc. and its subsidiary American Eagle, which account
for 84 percent of passengers October through March, according to
the preliminary official statement. The airport is able to
increase its debt levels because it serves a large affluent area
and has a steady traffic base, said Howard Cure, director of
municipal-bond credit research for Evercore Wealth Management
LLC in New York, which manages $2.9 billion.  The airport is the biggest hub for American, the third-
largest U.S. airline after  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  and
 Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)   Affluent Area  “ Dallas  is an area where the economy didn’t suffer that
much and the enplanements held fairly steadily,” Cure said.
“And there’s not much competition. Competing airports are
fairly far away.”  The additional debt will increase the airlines’ cost for
each person flying into DFW from $6.74 in fiscal 2010, according
to Moody’s. That may rise to $15 in fiscal 2020, according to
the airport’s outside consultant.  DFW may face a downgrade if future debt-service coverage
levels fall below current projections, Kurt Krummenacker, one of
the report’s authors, said in a telephone interview.  “The DFW is going to walk a finer line given the amount of
leverage that they’re taking on,” he said. “So if they’re
unable to meet their coverages set forth in their forecast, the
possibility of a downgrade would increase, all else being the
same.”  Following is a description of a pending sale of municipal
debt:  THE  UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA  REGENTS, which borrows for the
University of California system’s 10 campuses, is selling at
least $400 million of taxable and tax-exempt revenue bonds as
soon as today. Proceeds will help finance capital projects and
refund debt, according to sale documents. The bonds are rated
AA, the third-highest, by S&P and Aa1, the second highest, by
Moody’s Investors Service. Barclays Capital Inc. will lead
underwriters in the sale. (Added Aug. 17)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  