-- 
Danish Mortgage Bonds Defy Moody’s as Investors Ignore Ratings Downgrades

-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 
2011-08-19T10:51:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/danish-mortgage-bonds-defy-moody-s-as-investors-ignore-ratings-downgrades.html
Denmark ’s mortgage bonds are defying
downgrades by Moody’s Investors Service as an increasing number
of international buyers snap up the securities.  Nykredit A/S, Europe’s biggest issuer of covered bonds
backed by mortgages, has seen its international investor base
grow to close to 20 percent, compared with about 13 percent a
year ago, Chief Executive Officer Peter Engberg Jensen said.  Even “during the last month, the international investor
base has increased,” Jensen said yesterday in an interview in
Copenhagen. “We haven’t seen any effect of the things happening
with Moody’s.”  Moody’s in June warned of mounting refinancing risks as
adjustable-rate loans grow to account for about half of
Denmark’s $470 billion mortgage bond market. The rating company
downgraded Nykredit on July 1. Since then,  Europe ’s debt crisis
has deepened, while  Standard & Poor’s  downgrade of the U.S. has
sent global markets into shock and triggered an investor flight
to assets perceived as offering some protection from losses.  The Nykredit Danish Mortgage Bond Index touched a record
high on Aug. 17. The index, which has existed since 1993, is up
3 percent since Moody’s downgraded Nykredit at the beginning of
last month.  “There is huge demand right now for Danish mortgage
bonds,” Karsten Beltoft, head of the Copenhagen-based  Danish
Mortgage Bankers’ Federation , said in an interview. “Even
though there’s been a lot of discussion about the system,
they’re still regarded as a safe haven.”  ‘No Credit Risk’  Denmark’s mortgage bonds offer investors “no credit risk
and plenty of liquidity,” Alan Boyce, the head of George Soros
joint venture Absalon Project, said in an interview last month.
He predicted then that international investors will continue
buying the securities, arguing Moody’s doesn’t understand how
the bonds work.  “We’ve seen the spreads tightening to where they were
before Moody’s started to address the concerns about the
refinancing risks,” said Jacob Skinhoj, Copenhagen-based chief
analyst at  Nordea Markets , a unit of the biggest Nordic lender
Nordea Bank AB. “I’m a bit surprised that the spread tightening
has been so fast and so dramatic.”  Moody’s warned in June that adjustable-rate mortgages  face
refinancing  risks because of a mismatch between the maturities
on the loans and the bonds financing them. The rating company
told mortgage banks to provide extra collateral to compensate
for the perceived risk. Lenders including Nykredit responded by
separating out their financing for adjustable-rate mortgages.
Though the move was designed to protect fixed-rate securities,
lenders acknowledged adjustable-rate mortgage bonds may suffer
downgrades.  ‘Highly Skeptical’  Analysts said Moody’s warnings failed to spook investors.  Investors are “highly skeptical of the  ratings agencies  in
general,” said Jens Peter Soerensen, chief analyst at Danske
Bank A/S. “People are holding onto bonds. Foreign investors
have bought them for years and they know the product.”  Realkredit Danmark A/S, the mortgage lending unit of Danske
Bank A/S, terminated its contract with Moody’s after the
warning, arguing the rating company didn’t understand Denmark’s
mortgage market. The over-collateralization Moody’s told
Realkredit to generate was twice that requested by Standard &
Poor’s, said  Klaus Kristiansen , executive vice president for
asset and liability management at Realkredit Danmark.  “Most investors can relate to our message that Moody’s is
out of line, and their view on the market is simply too
pessimistic,” Kristiansen said in an interview. “Danish
mortgage bonds have become somewhat of a safe haven from the
European debt crisis.”  Under Pressure  Nykredit is under pressure to attract more international
investors as global liquidity rules penalize non-government
securities, Jensen said in June. The lender’s investor base
outside Denmark will need to grow to 25 percent to adjust to
restrictions that rules imposed by the  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision  and the European Commission will place on
banks’ holdings of easy-to-sell assets, he said then.  That target remains within reach even after Moody’s
downgrade, he said.  “We have been able to issue new bonds through the crisis,
and the spreads have been quite low compared to others,” Jensen
said. “So we can see that we are not discussing credit risk
when it comes to international investors. They see us as a safe
investment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  or
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  