-- 
Davis Polk Firm Hires Former Federal Trade Commission Economist Shelanski

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-08-18T14:48:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/davis-polk-firm-hires-former-federal-trade-commission-economist-shelanski.html
Davis Polk  & Wardwell LLP said
Howard A. Shelanski, a former deputy director at the Federal
Trade Commission, joined the law firm’s Washington office to
strengthen its antitrust and regulatory business.  Shelanski, 47, was a law professor at the  University of
California  at Berkeley from 1997 to 2009, where he co-directed
the Berkeley Center for Law and Technology from 2000 to 2008,
Davis Polk said in a statement.  He also served as chief economist at the Federal
Communications Commission from 1999 to 2000, and from 1998 to
1999 was a senior economist to the President’s  Council of
Economic Advisers , Davis Polk said. He was deputy director of
the FTC’s Bureau of Economics from 2009 until this year, where
he was responsible for the antitrust portfolio.  Shelanski has also practiced law and  Washington  and served
as a law clerk to U.S. Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia,
Davis Polk said. He earned his law degree and his doctorate in
economics at Berkeley and his bachelor’s degree at Haverford
College outside Philadelphia.  “Howard is a uniquely skilled and highly respected
antitrust lawyer and economist who brings valuable senior
government experience to the firm,” Thomas J. Reid, the New
York-based firm’s managing partner, said in a statement.  Shelanski will continue to teach at Georgetown University’s
Law Center.  Davis Polk said it has been bolstering its Washington
office with lawyers with senior government experience during the
past three years, including Susan C. Ervin, former deputy
director and chief counsel of the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, and Michael Sohn, former general counsel of the FTC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  