-- 
Denmark’s Regional Banks Dump Assets to Avoid International Funding Wall

-- B y   T a s n e e m   B r o g g e r   a n d   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 
2011-08-18T10:34:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/denmark-s-regional-banks-dump-assets-to-escape-debt-funding-wall.html
Denmark ’s regional banks are cutting
lending and selling off assets to generate cash needed to escape
an international funding wall as policy makers grope for
measures to boost liquidity.  “It still looks difficult for banks of our size to get
money in the international markets,” Lasse Nyby, chief
executive officer at Spar Nord Bank A/S, Denmark’s fourth-
largest listed lender, said in an interview yesterday. “We
think it will remain that way for some time.”  Spar Nord is now looking for buyers to offload its leasing
business, for which it hopes to generate about 7 billion kroner
($1.35 billion). That will cover the 7.2 billion kroner in
state-backed bonds the bank needs to repay by 2013, Nyby said.
Such a sale “would mean we’d be completely independent of
having to get funding internationally,” he said. “We want to
be free of having to get funding in the international markets.”  Denmark’s bank industry is still reeling from the fallout
of two regional  bank failures  this year that triggered the
European Union’s toughest resolution laws and resulted in senior
creditor losses. While the government is working on measures to
allow lenders to sidestep the bill, banks still face liquidity
shortages. The central bank this week responded by extending its
collateral terms indefinitely, as policy makers hammer out the
details of proposals to ease Denmark’s banking crisis.  ‘Harmful’  “It’s been harmful to the industry to have laws at home
that are extremely different from those outside the country’s
borders,” Nyby said. “It’s meant that bondholders and
depositors have lost money. That’s hurt confidence in Denmark’s
banking system when we’ve sought funding outside the country. In
hindsight, it’s absolutely not been beneficial.”  Denmark’s central bank will, starting in October, accept
bank loans as collateral in an effort to boost liquidity, it
said Aug. 16. The bank, which said the new rules required an
amendment to the country’s securities trading act, hasn’t yet
provided details of which bank loans it will accept. The
measures are designed to help lenders should they face liquidity
constraints as the government withdraws its guarantee in 2013,
the bank said.  Vestjysk Bank A/S, Denmark’s fifth-largest listed bank,
said Aug. 11 it will limit new credit lending, corporate
lending, investment credits and mortgage credit loans to reduce
overall lending by as much as 10 percent by 2013.  Bank Shares  Shares in Danske Bank A/S, the country’s biggest lender,
lost 4 percent to 85.50 kroner at 12:17 p.m. Jyske Bank A/S, the
second-biggest, dropped 3 percent, Sydbank A/S, the third-
largest, fell 2.4 percent. Shares in Spar Nord gained 1.2
percent to 41 kroner. Vestjysk A/S rose 2.7 percent.  The central bank is “moving independently of the
government to ensure the banking industry has sufficient
liquidity ahead of the 2013 expiration of state-guaranteed
bonds,” said Thomas Hovard, chief analyst in corporate bonds at
Danske Markets, a unit of Danske Bank. “They’re not going to 
wait for the politicians. They’re looking at the sector and 
the signals.”  The difference between the Copenhagen interbank offered
rate and Euribor, the equivalent rate in the euro area, narrowed
to 6 basis points yesterday, the smallest spread in more than a
month, following the central bank’s proposal. The spread touched
9.6 basis points earlier in the month, the widest since April.  Bank Defaults  Standard & Poor’s  said last month a further 15 Danish banks
may default, costing as much as 12 billion kroner over the next
three years. Amagerbanken A/S, once Denmark’s fifth-biggest
listed lender, failed in February after it lost money on
property loans. Fjordbank Mors A/S said in June it was insolvent
because of loan losses linked to real estate and farming.  Nyby expects Denmark’s regional lenders to experience
above-average loan losses for “a few more years,” he said.  The government’s proposal would allow the state winding-up
unit Financial Stability to take over bad loans from ailing
lenders if another bank wants to buy the healthy parts. The
country’s lenders need to refinance about $35 billion in state-
guaranteed debt in the next two years. The Aug. 12 proposal
would also allow a bank to have its guarantee extended in the
event of a takeover.  The legal details of the government’s proposal have yet to
be worked out. The measures will still be discussed by lawmakers
and industry representatives before a final proposal is put to
parliament, Economy Minister Brian Mikkelsen said. All costs
would be carried by the banking industry, he said.  Funding Squeeze  Bent Naur, the chairman of Denmark’s local bankers
association, warned in an Aug. 3 interview, that government
plans to withdraw guarantees in two years will trigger a
liquidity squeeze that even healthy lenders will be hard pressed
to escape.  Still, while banks wait for lawmakers to work out the
details of their proposals, the central bank’s measures are “a
very good initiative,” Nyby said. The extended collateral terms
will “help the sector out of the funding squeeze that could
come in 2013,” he said.  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net  