-- 
Descended From Apes, Acting Like Slime Molds: Nathan Myhrvold

-- B y   N a t h a n   M y h r v o l d
-- 
2011-08-18T00:00:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/descended-from-apes-acting-as-slime-molds-commentary-by-nathan-myhrvold.html
As we lurch from one high-stakes
political drama to another, it is natural to wonder why
societies aren’t better at avoiding self-inflicted crises. Here
in the U.S. earlier this month, the government barely dodged
default, even though economists reached consensus months ago on
when the debt limit would need to be raised.  Meanwhile in  Europe , one inadequate government response
after another has all but assured that anxiety over the solvency
of  Greece  and the creditworthiness of Italy and  Spain  will
continue to fester, roiling global markets and pushing the
European Union to the brink of ruin.  Pundits have been referring to these spectacles as “train
wrecks,” as if they happen at high speed. Hardly. These trains
are moving at inches an hour; for years, we’ve seen the
potential accident ahead. So why do we end up with the tangled
mess?  It’s an important question because, looking down the track,
it’s easy to spot other big trains on collision courses. In the
U.S., our deeply flawed health-care system long ago lost its
brakeman, and the  Affordable Care Act , enacted last year, failed
to fix the major causes of runaway costs. To the contrary, many
argue that it exacerbated some of them. The problem of providing
health care in the U.S. is not solved; we’re going to have to
wait for some future crisis before it gets more attention.  The current funding structure for Social Security is going
to run headlong into the demographic shift of aging baby
boomers, bankrupting the program and perhaps the country along
with it. Economists know this, but the political reality is that
we cannot fix the system in advance; we have to wait for the
crisis to occur. Europe and  Japan  face even worse trouble with
their state pensions.  Ignoring  Climate Change   We have yet to develop the technology that will be needed
to meet the world’s fast-growing demand for energy. And although
climate scientists are almost apoplectic about the economic and
ecological risks created by global warming, no efforts to combat
it have been even remotely commensurate to the challenge. Global
levels of carbon dioxide continue to climb unabated.  Politicians don’t like to face unpleasant realities. In
truth, nobody does, but as individuals, we have no choice; if we
neglect to plan ahead, we are held accountable. Fail to meet
your responsibilities at work, and you get fired. Ignore your
car’s gas gauge, and you get stranded.  So why do we have trouble avoiding catastrophes as a
society? The answer may lie in the biology of colonial
organisms. Society, it turns out, behaves a lot like a slime
mold.  A slime mold is a colony-forming creature that occupies the
evolutionary middle ground between single-celled microorganisms
such as bacteria, which generally fend for themselves, and truly
multicellular animals such as humans, in which trillions of
highly specialized cells organize themselves into the heart,
eyes, brain and so on. Heart cells aren’t out for themselves --
they dutifully perform their very specific job of pumping blood
to the rest of the cells in the body.  Colonial organisms, in contrast, are creatures that can
live by themselves, but instead frequently band together in
macroscopic collections. Sometimes -- as in ant hills and bee
hives -- the members of the colony specialize to a modest
degree, but they are still full-fledged individuals. Yet the
colony as a whole acts like a larger organism. Certain slime
molds, for example, can move, reproduce and exhibit other simple
animal-like properties.  Brainless Organism  But a slime mold doesn’t have eyes or a brain -- or any
other organ, for that matter. Creating an organ requires a deep
subjugation of interests. The heart has to trust that the brain
will run things and that the reproductive system will look after
its long-term interests.  Although it may be tempting to think of social institutions
as functioning like organs, human societies behave, in practice,
much more like slime molds. They don’t have eyes or brains that
are anything like human eyes and brains. So although any one of
us can learn from our mistakes, foresee problems and act
reasonably to solve them, collectively we don’t do a very good
job of this.  Granted, our species is very intelligent and has developed
exquisite communication across the world and through the
centuries. But while people are smart enough to anticipate
problems, they are also smart enough to make counterarguments.
Every good idea in history has had to fight against many bad
ideas before winning broad acceptance.  Like the individual mold cells in a slime colony, most
people mainly pursue their self-interest, influenced only
partially by a concern for the common good. And our individual
agendas often conflict. You can’t balance the federal budget,
for example, without goring somebody’s ox. Do we raise taxes,
cut spending, eliminate subsidies? Every option is resisted by
some people.  What’s more, society as a whole isn’t rational. In
politics, religion and other areas of culture, people disagree
on the worth of competing ideas. There is no equivalent to the
scientific method that can determine in a robust way which ideas
match the real world, and which ones can be ruled out.  So
conflicting ideologies persist indefinitely.  Economics suffers from this problem, too. Economists want
their discipline to be a science, and they have nailed down a
few precepts, but many of their debates are still clouded by
ideology.  Absent a political counterpart to the scientific method,
democracies rely on an error-correction system that is based
partly on checks and balances and partly on elections. Checks
and balances slow decision-making by giving rise to horse
trading: Rather than block your tendency to overspend, I agree
to fund your project, so long as you agree to fund mine.  Popular Policy Makers  Elections, for their part, are typically popularity
contests rather than measures of candidates’ relative competency
or effectiveness. Imagine if scientific truth were determined
according to which scientist was most popular. To be successful,
scientists would have to be charismatic and attractive -- and
human knowledge would suffer terribly. It’s easy to blame
politicians for their many faults, but ultimately we have the
politicians we insist on having.  The net result of these limitations is that even advanced
democracies are functionally blind, so they deal with problems
only when they bump into them and perceive a “sudden” crisis.
Americans put up with increasing air pollution for decades
before the situation got so intolerable that Congress passed the
 Clean Air Act . Hundreds of species went extinct before
systematic action was taken to save endangered plants and
animals.  Unfortunately, this way of responding to problems runs the
risk of being too little, too late. Not all problems can be
fixed after they have become severe. If we wait until all the
cheap oil is gone before developing alternatives, the resulting
economic disruption will be traumatic. And if we wait until
global warming is intolerable before making serious cutbacks in
emissions of long-lived  greenhouse gases , the physics of the
atmosphere virtually guarantees that all our efforts will then
be too late. To head off these problems, this slime mold needs
to grow eyes and a brain.  ( Nathan Myhrvold , the former chief strategist and chief technology 
officer at Microsoft and the founder and chief executive officer of 
 Intellectual Ventures , is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions 
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Nathan Myhrvold at  nathanmyhrvold@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  