-- 
Dexia Leads Plunge in European Banking Shares After Dollar Funding Report

-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 
2011-08-18T16:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/dexia-leads-plunge-in-european-banking-shares-after-dollar-funding-report.html
Dexia SA (DEXB)  fell the most in two years
in Brussels trading, leading a rout in European banking shares,
after The Wall Street Journal said the  Federal Reserve  is
scrutinizing the ability of European banks’ U.S. units to fund
themselves.  Dexia,  Belgium ’s biggest bank by assets, dropped 25 cents,
or 14 percent, to 1.57 euros in the largest drop since March 13,
2009. Societe Generale SA sank 12 percent in Paris, while
Barclays Plc slid 11 percent in  London . The 46-member Bloomberg
 Europe  Banks and Financial Services Index tumbled 7.6 percent,
the largest plunge since March 30, 2009.  Europe’s sovereign debt crisis led the Federal Reserve Bank
of  New York  to seek information from European banks about their
access to funds to maintain operations in the U.S., the Journal
reported today, citing people it didn’t identify. An undisclosed
euro-area lender borrowed $500 million from the  European Central
Bank  on Aug. 17, the first such bid in six months.  “Dexia has one of the riskiest profiles,” said Jacques- Pascal Porta, who helps manage 400 million euros ($573 million)
at Ofi Gestion Privee in Paris and doesn’t own any shares in
Dexia. “Distrust of the bank increased after it was hurt by the
subprime crisis and as it is exposed to sovereign debt” of
European countries including Greece and  Italy , he said.  Dexia, based in Brussels and Paris, reported on Aug. 4 that
its central-bank borrowings had doubled to about 34 billion
euros, saying it swapped a large part of those funds into the
U.S. currency to safeguard dollar funding.  U.S. Commitments  Dexia’s commitments in the U.S. include about $14 billion
of standby bond purchase agreements -- guarantees to buy
municipal bonds if investors want out -- and guaranteed
investment contracts, or GICs, which municipalities buy with
money raised from bond sales pending use for schools, roads and 
other public works.  “We’d love to have a reduction of the GICs because it will
help us definitely to sell the collateral in front of this
portfolio,” Dexia Chief Executive Officer Pierre Mariani told
analysts Aug. 4 on a conference call. “We are trying to
negotiate with GIC holders the unwinding of these deposits.”  Dexia said it had about 20 billion euros of liquid assets
left at the end of June which it could use as collateral to
obtain additional funds. That compares with 25 billion euros of
unsecured short-term funding.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  