-- 
Leading Economic Indicators Index in U.S. Climbed 0.5%

-- B y   J i l l i a n   B e r m a n
-- 
2011-08-18T16:55:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/leading-economic-indicators-index-in-u-s-climbed-0-5-1-.html
The index of U.S. leading economic
indicators climbed more than economists expected in July,
boosted by an increase in  money supply  that may reflect a flight
to safety.  The Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next
three to six months climbed 0.5 percent after a 0.3 percent gain
in June, the New York-based research group said today.
Economists projected a 0.2 percent rise in July, according to
the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  Limited employment and income growth may keep  consumer
spending , which accounts for about 70 percent of the economy,
from accelerating at the same time sentiment is depressed by a
drop in stock prices. Federal Reserve policy makers said this
month that the economic recovery is advancing “considerably
slower” than expected.  “If you discount the impact of the money supply and
 interest rate  spread what you’re left with is relatively flat or
very slightly positive growth in the overall economy,” said Tim Quinlan, an economist at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC  in
 Charlotte ,  North Carolina . “There’s not a lot to sustain a real
contribution to growth. When sentiment is looking the worst that
it has in 30 years, it certainly doesn’t bode well.”  Bloomberg Survey  Estimates of the 51 economists surveyed by Bloomberg ranged
from a drop of 0.5 percent to an increase of 0.6 percent.  Six of the 10 components of the Conference Board’s leading
index contributed to the increase in July. In addition to money
supply and interest rates spreads, they included weekly job
claims figures.  The increase in the money supply boosted the index by 0.71
point, while the interest-rate spread between the overnight
federal funds rate and the yield on the 10-year Treasury note
pushed the measure up by 0.31 point.  The flight to cash from volatile equity markets may
indicate lagging investor confidence.  The Conference Board’s index of coincident indicators, a
gauge of current economic activity, increased 0.3 percent from
the prior month.  The coincident index tracks payrolls, incomes, sales and
production -- the measures used by the  National Bureau of
Economic Research  to determine the beginning and end of U.S.
recessions.  The gauge of lagging indicators rose 0.2 percent last
month. The index measures business lending, length of
employment, service prices and ratios of labor costs,
inventories and  consumer credit .  Seven of 10  Seven of the 10 indicators that make up the leading index
are known ahead of time: stock prices, jobless claims, building
permits, consumer expectations, the yield curve, factory hours
and supplier delivery times. The Conference Board estimates new
orders for  consumer goods , bookings for capital goods and money
supply adjusted for inflation.  The  U.S. economy , the world’s largest, expanded at a 1.3
percent annual rate in the second quarter after almost stalling
in the prior quarter, Commerce Department figures showed.  Employers added 117,000 workers to payrolls in July, as the
 unemployment rate  declined to 9.1 percent.  Confidence among U.S. consumers plunged in August to the
lowest level since May 1980, adding to concern that weak
employment gains and volatility in the stock market will prompt
households to retrench. The Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan preliminary index of consumer sentiment slumped to 54.9
from 63.7 the prior month.  Consumer Spending  The decline in confidence is likely weighing on consumer
spending, which dropped in June for the first time in almost two
years. Purchases decreased 0.2 percent, after a 0.1 percent gain
the prior month, Commerce Department figures showed Aug. 2.  The Fed expects a “somewhat slower pace of recovery over
coming quarters,” and that the “downside risks to the economic
outlook have increased,” the central bank said Aug. 9.  Lagging  consumer confidence  prompted  Cosi Inc. (COSI)  to review
staffing needs, said James Hyatt, the chief executive officer of
the convenience restaurant company.  “We felt the consumer confidence was sliding through the
quarter and we noticed their changes in spending patterns,”
Hyatt said on an Aug. 11 conference call with analysts. “The
economy has been so difficult, but that’s just the conditions.
So there’s no whining around here. It’s the new normal,”  The Deerfield, Illinois-based convenience restaurant
company on Aug. 11 reported a 0.2 percent decline in comparable
sales for the second quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jillian Berman in Washington at 
 jberman13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  