-- 
Health-Care Case Is a Good Moment for Judicial Restraint: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-08-18T00:04:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/health-care-case-is-a-good-moment-for-judicial-restraint-view.html
For about the first third of the
20th century, the U.S.  Supreme Court  was under the sway of a
doctrine called “substantive due process.”  The court routinely invoked this (and the related concept
of “freedom of contract”) to overturn laws attempting to
regulate business on matters such as working conditions, minimum
wages, and health and safety.  This was what conservatives now call “judicial activism,”
except that the activist judges -- imposing their unwanted
doctrines on an unwilling democracy -- were conservatives.  In more recent decades, conservatives, at least in their
rhetoric, have turned firmly against judicial activism.
According to the 2008 Republican  platform , “Judicial activism
is a grave threat to the rule of law because unaccountable
federal judges are usurping democracy, ignoring the Constitution
and its separation of powers, and imposing their personal
opinions on the public. This must stop.”  The campaign against the Obama administration’s health-care
reform -- in particular, the effort to get the individual
mandate declared unconstitutional -- will soon test that
commitment to restraint in the Supreme Court.  Federal district courts have ruled both ways on the
subject, and, as of last week, so have two federal appeals
courts. Now it is up to the nine justices.  Conservative Activism  If they rule the Affordable Care Act unconstitutional, it
will be the clearest sign yet (and there have been earlier ones)
that conservatives on the court and off will not be satisfied
with overturning what they regard as liberal rulings from the
Earl Warren and Warren Burger Courts (most notably Roe v. Wade,
the abortion decision). They intend to begin a new era of
conservative judicial activism, imposing their agenda through
the courts, just as they have long accused liberals of doing.  It may not come to that, because the argument that the law
is unconstitutional is pretty thin. It went virtually
unmentioned during the debate before the law was passed, and
previously failed to exercise conservatives when something like
it became law in  Massachusetts  under Governor  Mitt Romney . It
has the aroma of confection about it, as if someone at one of
the conservative think tanks was reading the law and suddenly
said, “Eureka!”  The argument turns on the fact that the U.S. government is
one of delegated and enumerated powers. It only has the powers
specifically granted to it by the Constitution. Every law must
have a “hook” somewhere in that document. Ever since the New
Deal, that hook has generally been the clause authorizing the
federal government to regulate interstate and foreign commerce.  Broad Powers  The courts have interpreted the Commerce Clause broadly.
Between 1935 and 1995, not a single law enacted by Congress was
held to exceed its power under the Commerce Clause. Even the
civil rights acts of the 1960s were held to be constitutional
because of the effect of racial discrimination on commerce.
(Which, in reality, was hardly the point.)  The 1995  ruling  involved a law forbidding guns near
schools. A subsequent  ruling  overturned the federal Violence
Against Women Act. Neither of these had anything to do with
commerce.  The argument against the  Affordable Care Act  concerns the
individual mandate -- the requirement that every American either
have health insurance (whether from an employer or purchased
individually) or pay a fine or tax. Without something like this,
the system (or any universal insurance plan other than single
payer -- that is, a real government takeover of the health
insurance system) won’t work. You need healthy people in the
system to help pay for the unhealthy ones, and for themselves
when, inevitably, they turn unhealthy.  Requiring Commerce  Opponents say there is nothing in the Commerce Clause that
enables the federal government to require commerce, by forcing
every citizen to purchase something. But the court has
previously found that the clause allows the government to
regulate how much wheat a farmer can grow, even if he doesn’t
sell it.  Commerce Clause jurisprudence is a mass of scholastic
distinctions. Is the individual mandate a tax or a fine? Is
medical care commerce or not? (We know that insurance is
commerce, because a case long ago said so.) Is it constitutional
for states to mandate auto insurance but not for the federal
government to mandate health insurance? You can weave your way
through these thickets and emerge with an argument that the
Commerce Clause doesn’t support the individual mandate. But it
would be a real stretch.  A Supreme Court decision to throw out health-care reform on
Commerce Clause grounds could open up hundreds of other federal
laws to legal challenge -- starting with the Civil Rights Act.
It’s hard to believe that this court really wants to relitigate
the second half of the 20th century, but we’ll have an answer
soon enough.  Meanwhile, let’s hear a bit less about the evils of
judicial activism from politicians who are eager to have judges
throw out one of the most important pieces of social legislation
since the civil rights era.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 