-- 
EBRD Agrees to Help Russia Raise Capital to Improve Highways

-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 
2011-08-18T15:41:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/ebrd-agrees-to-help-russia-raise-capital-to-improve-highways-1-.html
The European Bank for Reconstruction
and Development plans to help attract investors and may provide
funding to construct sections of a highway between Moscow and
St. Petersburg and revamp other major roads in  Russia .  An accord signed today with the state road-building agency
 Avtodor  signals a “long-term partnership with the task of
modernizing Russia’s road system,” the EBRD said in an e-mailed
statement today. The agreement commits the two parties to adopt
“best international practices, particularly over environmental
and social issues,” during planning, route selection,
construction and operation, according to the statement.  Russia, the world’s biggest country by area, is planning to
invest 1.3 trillion rubles ($44.7 billion) on upgrading the road
system until 2019. The federal budget will provide 75 percent of
the funding while the remainder will come from private
investors, the EBRD said.  The London-based lender may participate in bond sales by
groups of investors and builders overseeing road projects,
Richard Wallis, a spokesman for the EBRD in Moscow, said by
phone today. The bank has also been invited to take part in
funding improvements to the Don and Ukraine highways.  The EBRD has previously purchased debt issued by Russian
infrastructure companies, buying 4.5 billion rubles of 0A0
RusHydro’s debut ruble-denominated Eurobond sold last October
and 3.6 billion rubles of bonds issued in July by Federal Grid
Co., the operator of high-voltage transmission lines.  Avtodor is currently managing projects including the
reconstruction of three motorways linking the Russian capital
with southern Russia, Belarus and Ukraine and a new toll road
between Moscow and  St. Petersburg .  The EBRD, owned by 61 countries and two intergovernmental
institutions, was created in 1991 to invest in former communist
countries to help them transform their economies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran  at 
 Jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  