-- 
Telecom New Zealand Full-Year Net Slumps 57% on Asset Impairments, Charges

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-08-18T21:04:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/telecom-new-zealand-full-year-net-slumps-57-on-asset-impairments-charges.html
Telecom Corp. of New Zealand Ltd.
the nation’s biggest phone company, said full-year profit more
than halved after it wrote down the value of assets.  Net income fell 57 percent to NZ$164 million ($135 million)
in the 12 months ended June 30, from NZ$382 million a year
earlier, Auckland-based Telecom said in a statement. The result
included a NZ$257 million asset impairment charge.  Telecom in May agreed to partner the government in building
a faster broadband network, placing it on course to split into
two companies later this year, subject to shareholder approval.
The Chorus unit will become a separately listed wholesale
network infrastructure operator, while Telecom Retail will
become a provider of mobile and fixed-line services to end users.  “We are well prepared for the fiber future and the
imminent changes to industry structure,” Chief Executive
Officer Paul Reynolds said in the statement. The company made no
further comment on the new structure.  The asset impairments “relate to the development of assets
to comply with regulatory undertakings,” the company said.
Changes to industry structure means a number of these assets are
no longer relevant, it said.  Full-year earnings also included an NZ$18 million gain from
the sale of the consumer unit of Australian subsidiary AAPT Ltd.,
NZ$42 million of costs associated with the earthquakes that
struck the southern city of Christchurch, and NZ$29 million of
spending on preparing the company’s bid to join the broadband
project.  Adjusting for items, profit rose 1.6 percent to NZ$388
million, beating analysts’ expectation of NZ$351.3 million.  Adjusted profit before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization rose 2.1 percent to NZ$1.8 billion, bettering the
forecast range of NZ$1.72 billion to NZ$1.78 billion, the
company said.  Telecom declared a 7.5 cents-a-share fourth-quarter
dividend, and will also distribute a special 2 cent dividend.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at   iwilson2@bloomberg.net  