-- 
Belarus Devaluation No Barrier to Telekom Austria After Loss

-- B y   K i r a   S a v c e n k o
-- 
2011-08-19T16:22:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/telekom-austria-stung-by-belarus-devaluation-to-expand-business-in-country.html
Telekom Austria AG (TKA) , the Vienna-based
company with mobile operations in seven east European countries,
added clients in Belarus this year even as the nation’s currency
devaluation caused losses, and aims to expand even more.  “We are happy with the performance of our local
operations,” Chief Financial Officer Hans Tschuden said by
phone from Vienna on Aug. 17 after the company reported 9.3
million euros ($13.3 million) in lost revenue from the 36
percent devaluation of the Belarus ruble in May. The former
Austrian phone monopoly has invested more than 7 million euros
in the local network this year and “there is some more to
come,” he said.  Telekom Austria ’s client base in  Belarus , the former Soviet
republic led for the past 17 years by President Aleksandr Lukashenko, rose 7.7 percent to 4.46 million subscribers in the
first half of the year from the same period in 2010, according
to a company presentation. The phone company reported a 71
percent drop in second-quarter net income and cut its 2011 sales
forecast this week, citing the ruble’s slump and declining
revenue in the Balkans.  Companies from Telekom  Austria  to Turkcell Iletisim
Hizmetleri AS and Finnish brewer Olvi Oyj are sticking with
their business in Belarus as the  International Monetary Fund 
predicts the economy will probably expand 6.8 percent this year,
down from 7.6 percent in 2010. Fixed-line losses in its home
market led Telekom Austria to expand its mobile operations in
central and eastern  Europe , where the IMF projects average 3.7
percent growth this year.  Cheaper Handsets  Telekom Austria has dropped 26 percent since May 20 on the
Vienna stock exchange, compared with a 23 percent decline on the
benchmark index as of yesterday. The company’s shares trade at
11.6 times estimated 2012 earnings compared with 10.5 times for
its west European peers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The stock fell 0.4 percent to 7.2 euros at the end of
trading in Vienna.  Telekom Austria, which bought Velcom, Belarus’s second-
biggest mobile-phone network, in 2007, is seeking to shift more
costs into the local currency to improve profitability, Tschuden
said.  “We simply have to think, do we need handsets to be
imported to the extent we had in the past to keep our business
up and running, or do we change to cheaper handsets,” he said.  Belarus devalued its currency as a 26 percent increase in
the trade deficit in the first six months over the previous year
and a widening current-account deficit threatened an economic
collapse.  ‘Favorable’ Location  Lukashenko’s government came under new sanctions from the
European Union in June on allegations of prosecuting
presidential candidates and activists. EU and Russian companies
have invested more than $2 billion in the country, according to
World Bank estimates.  Turkcell,  Turkey ’s biggest mobile operator, reported a
foreign-exchange loss of 255 million liras ($143 million) in
Belarus in the second quarter because of the devaluation.  Olvi
Oyj (OLVAS)  said  currency depreciation  shaved 56.6 percent off its
operating profit in the country in the same quarter.  Istanbul-based Turkcell plans to continue operations in
Belarus as the economy has growth potential and a “favorable”
geopolitical location with access to Russian and EU markets,
Nihat Narin, the head of investor and international media
relations at Turkcell, said by phone from Istanbul on Aug. 17.  ‘Very Good’ Prospects  Olvi, based in Iisalmi, Finland, is prepared for a further
devaluation this year in Belarus, where the company has invested
15 million euros this year, said Mikko Paananen, its director
for business and legal affairs.  Prospects for growth are “very good” as Belarusians’ beer
consumption is 45 liters a year per person, compared with about
90 liters in  Finland  and the Baltics, he said.  Olvi shares decreased 3.9 percent to 15.94 euros at the end
of trading in Helsinki. Turkcell remained unchanged at 7.62
liras in Istanbul.  Belarus is “a perfect place for locating production,”
Mart Meerits, member of the board at Silvano Fashion Group, said
by phone from Tallinn. The second-largest listed Baltic clothing
company’s profit more than quadrupled in the second quarter from
a year earlier. Silvano makes 80 percent to 90 percent of its
products in Belarus, where costs are linked to ruble, Meerits
said. The clothing is sold in Belarus,  Russia , the Baltics,
Ukraine and other countries in ex-Soviet region, according to a
company statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kira Savcenko in London at 
 ksavcenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  