-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Decline First Day in Four on Growth, Lender Concern

-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b   a n d   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 
2011-08-18T21:21:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/emerging-market-stocks-decline-first-day-in-four-on-growth-lender-concern.html
Emerging-markets stocks declined for
the first time in four days as Morgan Stanley lowered its
forecast for global economic growth and financial shares fell on
concern European banks may face increased scrutiny.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index tumbled 2.8 percent to
995.44 at 4:30 p.m. in  New York , the biggest drop since Aug. 8.
 Brazil ’s Bovespa sank 3.5 percent while Mexico’s IPC declined
2.4 percent. The WIG20 Index in Warsaw tumbled 5.8 percent, led
by banks, and benchmark gauges declined by at least 3 percent in
Turkey and Russia.  Morgan Stanley cut its growth forecast for emerging markets
to 6.4 percent this year from 6.6 percent and to 6.1 percent in
2012 from 6.7 percent. Banks were among the biggest decliners in
the MSCI Index after the Wall Street Journal reported that U.S.
regulators are increasing their examination of  Europe ’s largest
lenders on concern that the sovereign debt crisis may lead to
funding problems.  “These are more growth fears than financial distress,”
 Lars Christensen , chief emerging-market analyst at Danske Bank
A/S in Copenhagen, said by phone. “It’s clear that there have
been some worries in the market about the liquidity situation in
the banking system in Europe.”  U.S. stocks tumbled amid growing concern the economy is
slowing and speculation that European banks lack enough capital,
while hopes for more stimulus from the Federal Reserve receded.  Jobless Claims, Inflation  A report showed that more Americans than forecast filed
applications for  unemployment benefits  last week, signaling the
labor market is struggling two years into the economic recovery.
Another report showed that the cost of living in the U.S.
climbed in July by the most in four months, led by higher energy
and food prices. Separately, the  Federal Reserve  Bank of
Philadelphia’s general economic index fell more than forecast to
minus 30.7 in August from 3.2 the prior month.  Brazilian stocks fell the most since Aug. 8. Commodity
producers led declines, with OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes
SA, the  oil company  controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista ,
falling 5.8 percent.  The decline in Mexico’s IPC was also the steepest in eight
sessions, led by a 6.6 percent slide in Cemex SAB. Argentina’s
Merval index sank 4.1 percent.  Polish stocks posted the biggest loss since June 2009, led
lower by financial companies, which make up about 40 percent of
the index. PKO Bank Polski SA, the country’s biggest bank,
declined 5.6 percent and  Bank Pekao SA (PEO) , majority-owned by
UniCredit SpA, tumble 9.3 percent.  Swiss National Bank   Bank stocks in Hungary and Poland may also be suffering
because investors are concerned about whether the Swiss National
Bank will succeed in pushing down the value of the franc,
Christensen said. Most mortgages are denominated in francs in
the two central European countries.  Morgan Stanley reduced its global-growth forecast to 3.9
percent this year, down from 4.2 percent, citing an
“insufficient” response to Europe’s sovereign debt crisis,
weakened confidence and the prospect of fiscal tightening.  China ’s gross domestic product may rise 8.7 percent this
year, down from a previous estimate of 9 percent, Morgan Stanley
said in an e-mailed note.  Russia ’s economy may expand 4.7
percent this year, instead of the 5 percent earlier estimated,
and 5.2 percent, down from 5.5 percent, in 2012. Turkey’s
economy may expand 5.9 percent this year, more than the
previously expected 5.5 percent, and 3.5 percent next year
instead of 4.5 percent, the note said.  Oil Weakens  The ISE National 100 Index dropped 4.2 percent in Istanbul.
The Micex Index declined 3.7 percent in Moscow as oil retreated
5.9 percent in New York. OAO Sberbank fell 6.2 percent and OAO
Gazprom, the Moscow-based gas export monopoly, slid 3.8 percent.  The ruble weakened 1.1 percent against the dollar, the rand
depreciated by 1.4 percent and the zloty slipped 1.7 percent.  India ’s Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index, or Sensex,
lost 2.2 percent, the most since May. Infosys Ltd., the nation’s
second-largest software services provider, fell 3.9 percent
after the stock was downgraded to “reduce” by BNP Paribas SA.  South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  sank 1.7 percent. Samsung
Electronics Co., the country’s biggest exporter of consumer
electronics, slumped 5.7 percent in  Seoul . China’s Anhui Conch
Cement Co., the biggest cement maker, declined 6.2 percent.  The Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index of eastern European,
Middle East and Africa credit-default swaps rose 15 basis points
to 248.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries climbed 11 basis points, or 0.11
percentage point, to 372.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  