-- 
Lenovo Group Net Income Rises on Office Computer, Emerging Market Sales

-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-08-18T06:26:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/lenovo-net-income-beats-analyst-estimates-on-office-computer-china-sales.html
Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , China’s biggest
maker of personal computers, reported first-quarter profit
almost doubled, beating analysts’ estimates, after it boosted
sales in emerging markets and increased shipments to businesses.  Net income climbed to $108.8 million in the three months
ended June 30, or 1.08 cents a share, from $54.9 million, or
0.54 cents, a year earlier, Lenovo said today in a statement.
Profit exceeded the $84 million average of seven analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue rose 15 percent to
$5.92 billion.  The maker of Thinkpad laptops increased sales in China,
 India  and  Brazil , as well as the U.S., where spending by
companies to replace aging computers is helping offset slowing
demand from consumers. Still, Lenovo shares fell in  Hong Kong 
trading today as analysts questioned whether the Chinese company
can maintain its growth overseas amid concerns about a global
economic slowdown.  “They have done well so far, but it’s whether they can
sustain this for the rest of the year that’s the question
mark,” said Lai Voon San, who rates Lenovo shares “sell” at
MF Global Equities in Hong Kong. “If you look at the way the
world is, and the way the markets are, there is some room for
caution.”  Lenovo fell 6.3 percent to HK$4.59 as of 2:17 p.m. in Hong
Kong trading, reversing an earlier gain today. The MSCI  Asia 
Pacific Index fell 1.3 percent.  Revenue in Lenovo’s mature-markets division, which includes
its operations in the U.S. and Western Europe, rose 13 percent
to $2.05 billion. Operating profit in the division more than
tripled to $76 million.  “The main swing factor in the results was the mature
market division -- there was a massive improvement in
profitability there,” MF Global’s Lai said.  Lenovo doesn’t see any sign that corporate clients are
cutting back technology spending, Chief Executive Officer  Yang Yuanqing  said in a conference call today. Purchases by companies
to replace older machines will be sustained throughout this year,
Chief Operating Officer Rory Read said.  “The market will be saying: yes the company did very well,
but where’s the growth going to come from now,” said Jean-Louis Lafayeedney, who rates Lenovo shares “buy” at JI Asia in Hong
Kong.  Dell Inc. (DELL) , the world’s second-biggest PC maker, cut its
full-year revenue forecast this week, citing a “more uncertain
demand environment.” Government customers have delayed spending,
the  Round Rock , Texas-based company said.  Global industry leader  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  accounted for
17.5 percent of the global PC market last quarter, rising from
17.4 percent a year earlier, according to research company
Gartner Inc. Lenovo, the third biggest, increased its market
share to 12 percent from 10 percent, behind Dell, which gained
to 12.5 percent from 12.3 percent, according to Gartner.  China Sales Rise  The Chinese company, which bought the PC division of
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  in 2005, said revenue from
China rose 13 percent to $2.84 billion, or 48 percent of the
company’s total. Sales in its emerging-market division, which
includes India, Brazil and  Russia , rose 26 percent to $1.04
billion.  Lenovo sold about 80,000 of its LePad tablet computers in
China last quarter, Yang said today. The company aims to
increase its share of the tablet market in the country to 20
percent by the end of the fiscal year, he said.  “Frankly, I don’t think they will get to 20 percent,” JI
Asia’s Lafayeedney said. “It’s hard to see how they can compete
with Apple.”  About 1.07 million Apple Inc. iPads were sold in  China  last
quarter, according to estimates by research company Analysys
International.  The iPad is “dominating” the Chinese market at present,
Yang said today. Lenovo is “ramping up” sales of its tablets
in China, he said, without elaborating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  