-- 
MetLife Leads Variable-Annuity Sales as Top Firms Gain Share

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-08-18T20:10:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/metlife-beats-prudential-in-variable-annuity-sales-as-top-firms-gain-share.html
MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life
insurer, regained the top spot in variable-annuity sales in the
first half of the year, leading a group of five firms expanding
their dominance in the industry.  Sales rose 19 percent to $80.7 billion in the six months
ended June 30 compared with the same period a year earlier,
trade group Limra said today on its  website . MetLife, based in
 New York , sold $12.6 billion of the retirement products,
overtaking No. 2  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU)  at $11.3 billion.  Sales of equity-linked variable annuities have increased as
consumers sought guaranteed returns amid stock-market declines.
The top five sellers of variable annuities in the U.S. accounted
for 56 percent of the industry’s sales in the six months ended
June 30, according to Limra data. That compares with 42 percent
in the same period three years earlier.  “The biggest concern that these companies have is that the
demand for variable annuities has been rising,” said  Steven Schwartz , an analyst at Raymond James & Associates Inc. “At the
same time, you have had a real narrowing of the market
concentration” that increases the potential losses at the firms
that lead the industry.  Market volatility since the end of the second quarter may
reduce companies’ earnings in the near term, Moody’s Investors
Service said in a note today. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
has fallen about 14 percent since June 30 amid signs that the
economy is slowing.  Shares Decline  MetLife declined $1.92, or 5.7 percent, to $31.87 at 4:07
p.m. today in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, and has
slipped about 27 percent since June 30. Prudential fell $3.74,
or 7.4 percent, to $47.15 and is down about 26 percent in the
current quarter.  MetLife boosted its ranking after improving terms for
clients on one of its products, said Schwartz. Ratings firms
don’t want to see insurers too concentrated in variable
annuities because it increases their exposure in one area, he
said. In addition to variable annuities, MetLife sells other
retirement products, life insurance and auto and home coverage.  “We wouldn’t want any one part of our business to
overwhelm other parts of the business,” MetLife Chief Executive
Officer Steven Kandarian said last month on an call with
analysts after being asked whether he was comfortable with the
rise in variable-annuity sales. “We look for balanced growth.”  Prudential Plc (PRU) ’s Jackson National Life unit was the No. 3
variable annuity seller in the first half of 2011, followed by
TIAA-CREF and  Lincoln National Corp. (LNC) , according to Limra.  Insurers lost money on variable annuities in 2008 and early
2009 because funds in the products are generally invested in
stocks. The  S&P 500  declined 38 percent in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 