-- 
EU Sugar Inventories Are Too Low to Meet Demand, Nestle Says

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-08-18T10:00:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/eu-sugar-inventories-are-too-low-to-meet-demand-nestle-says.html
Sugar stockpiles in the European
Union are too low to meet demand because of constrained imports
and adverse weather that hurt production, according to  Nestle
SA (NESN) , the world’s biggest food company.  A shortage of the sweetener has caused prices in some EU
member states to rise as much as 70 percent this year, Rabobank
International said May 19. The EU will hold the third of five
planned tenders to import sugar at a reduced duty on Aug. 25
after saying in July it would ship in 152,208 metric tons at a
reduced tariff. Cold, snowy weather last winter kept EU farmers
from collecting crops in a timely manner, reducing production
and leading to shortages.  “There is a major issue in the EU of not being enough
sugar available to meet demand, which inevitably has an adverse
effect on price,” Nestle, the maker of KitKat chocolate bars,
said in a statement this week. “Over the past few years, the
necessary imports from outside the EU have not arrived as
anticipated, and bad weather conditions in some sugar-producing
countries have affected yields.”  Refined, or white, sugar traded on NYSE Liffe in London
gained 38 percent in the past year and raw sugar jumped 49
percent on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York .  R&R Ice Cream Plc,  Europe ’s largest private-label producer
of ice cream, said prices for sugar-based foods in the EU may
rise as much as 20 percent by April on higher costs for the
sweetener. EU regulators should relax sugar-import tariffs and
increase the quota “dramatically” for the 2012-13 season,
Chief Executive Officer James Lambert said this week.  The European Commission’s sugar-management committee
approved 300,000 tons of duty-free sugar imports in March. Also
that month, the EU released 500,000 tons of so-called out-of-
quota sugar normally set aside for industrial uses for food-
making purposes. The commission is the 27-nation bloc’s
executive arm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in  London  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  