-- 
Europe Sugar-Quota Changes Must Be Considered, Commission Says

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-08-18T12:46:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/europe-sugar-quota-changes-must-be-considered-commission-says.html
European Union officials need to
start thinking about how sugar production and import quotas will
change in 2015, said  Roger Waite , a spokesman for the European
Commission, the EU’s executive arm.  Proposals to change the quota system in 2015 go before the
commission on Oct. 12, said Waite, who wouldn’t comment on
whether plans to abolish the tariffs exist. The EU allows the
production of 13.3 million metric tons of sugar a year for food
and the  World Trade Organization  limits imports by the bloc to
670,000 tons, said Johan Reyniers, a spokesman with the
commission.  “We have to think in more medium- to long-term and have to
start thinking about what will happen with the quotas,” Waite
said by phone today. “Last October we made it very clear that
the system of quotas will run to 2015. This is the moment to
start thinking about what we do next.”  White sugar futures on NYSE Liffe in London have gained 38
percent in the past year and raw sugar in  New York  has gained 48
percent.  Rising sugar prices this year were a “one-off event” and
not a “structural” problem with EU import and production
quotas, Waite said.  Nestle SA, the world’s largest food company, and R&R Ice
Cream Plc,  Europe ’s largest private-label producer of ice cream,
said in separate statements this week that sugar demand is
outpacing supplies and that the EU should relax import quotas.  The commission’s sugar management committee approved
300,000 tons of duty-free sugar imports on March 10. The EU
released 500,000 tons of so-called out-of-quota sugar normally
set aside for industrial uses for food-making purposes in March.  “What we’ve seen is a one-off year, we hope, where supply
has been difficult to get, which meant world prices were high,”
Waite said. “We don’t think that’s a structural problem.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in  London  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  