-- 
Europe Needs Better Coordinated Fiscal Policies, Barclays Says

-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 
2011-08-18T16:29:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/europe-needs-better-coordinated-fiscal-policies-barclays-says.html
The volatility in global markets is
being spurred by “legitimate” concerns that  Europe ’s sovereign
debt crisis will worsen in  Spain , Italy and France and the
region should better co-ordinate its fiscal policies,  Barclays
Capital  said.  “Either Europe moves towards much better coordinated
economic and fiscal policies, rather than applying ad-hoc
measures and financial band-aids to manage the crisis, or an
eventual restructuring in Italy or Spain becomes increasingly
likely,” said economists including Frank Engels at Barclays
Capital in London in a note to clients today. “The latter,
however is too risky.”  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index plummeted 4.8 percent at 4:36
p.m. in London, the biggest drop since March 2009, as only three
stocks gained. The gauge has tumbled 22 percent from this year’s
peak in February. The MSCI All-Country World Index of stocks
lost 4.1 percent at 10:40 a.m. in  New York  as the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index fell 4.4 percent and  Germany ’s DAX Index
dropped 5.8 percent, the most since December 2008.  “European policy makers need to limit contagion by
credibly differentiating between the fiscally stressed and the
genuinely insolvent countries,” Barclays Capital said. “We
believe that a clear political commitment is needed to address
the problem of elevated marginal funding costs for select
periphery countries.”  Europe should set up a Euro Area Borrowing Authority to
bring down the cost of borrowing for countries while plans for a
full eurobond are drawn up, the analysts said. The authority
would issue guarantees only on new debt, reducing the initial
cost of the plan, they said. Countries that are struggling the
most with their deficits would be required to agree to make
structural adjustments in their economies to bring down their
debt, Barclays Capital said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in  London  at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  