-- 
Teva Faces Second Trial Over Hepatitis Cases Linked to Drug

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 
2011-08-18T19:21:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/teva-facing-second-trial-over-hepatitis-cases-tied-to-anesthetic-propofol.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ,
the world’s biggest generic-drug maker, sold the anesthetic
 propofol  in a way that led some patients to develop hepatitis C,
a lawyer said at the start of a second trial over the
allegations.  Robert Eglet, a lawyer for three Las Vegas residents who
claim they were diagnosed with hepatitis after receiving
propofol from tainted vials during colonoscopies, told jurors in
opening statements today that officials of Teva, along with drug
distributors  Baxter International Inc. (BAX)  and  McKesson Corp. (MCK) , knew
sales of large vials of the drug could help spread blood-borne
diseases.  The companies “made billions of dollars in profits at the
expense of  patient safety ,” Eglet said in Nevada state court in
Las Vegas. The trial of the first case against Teva and Baxter
last year resulted in a verdict of more than $500 million
against the drugmakers.  Teva faces almost 300 lawsuits stemming from a hepatitis C
 outbreak  three years ago in southern  Nevada , the Petach Tikva,
Israel-based company said in a regulatory filing last month.
Nevada health officials blamed the reuse of propofol vials for
infecting patients with the incurable liver disease.  Teva manufactures the drug and San Francisco-based McKesson
is its current U.S. distributor. Baxter, based in Deerfield,
 Illinois , sold the drug for Teva until 2009, according to court
filings.  Cases Settled  Teva already agreed to settle about one-third of the
hepatitis-related suits alleging patients received propofol from
reused containers, according to a July 28 filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. Teva said it set aside an
undisclosed reserve to cover the settlements.  The drugmaker also faces “emotional distress” claims from
patients at  Las Vegas  endoscopy clinics who didn’t develop the
disease after receiving propofol during procedures. Propofol is
an intravenous agent used for sedation or anesthesia, according
to Teva’s  website.   In the case that began today, Anne Arnold,  Richard Sacks 
and Anthony Devito contend Teva’s 50-milliliter propofol
containers aren’t designed as single-use vials and the drugmaker
didn’t properly warn doctors about the dangers of “double
dipping” into the anesthetic.  “We are confident that if the jury gets to hear all of the
evidence, they will correctly determine that the drug-product
defendants were in no way responsible for the tragic hepatitis
outbreak that occurred in Las Vegas,” Denise Bradley, a U.S.
spokeswoman for Teva, said Aug. 12 in an e-mailed statement.  Deborah Spak, a spokeswoman for Baxter, said Aug. 11 the
company declined to comment on the suit because Teva accepted
liability for all of the cases stemming from the 2008 hepatitis
outbreak involving propofol. Megan Hawkins, a spokeswoman for
McKesson, said Aug. 12 that the company doesn’t comment on
pending litigation.  In a February  SEC filing , Teva officials said the
indemnification agreement with Baxter “does not extend to
punitive damages.” Four months later, Teva executives
acknowledged in another SEC filing that an arbitration panel
ruled 2-1 that the agreement covered punitive awards.  The companies contend in court filings that that misuse of
propofol vials by medical providers caused the 2008 hepatitis
outbreak.  Doctor Indicted  Last year, a state grand jury indicted Dr. Dipak Desai, who
ran the Endoscopy Center of Southern Nevada during the time
outbreak occurred, on criminal charges. Desai’s case has been
delayed after a judge found him incompetent to stand trial. He
is also facing federal charges over the outbreak.  Sacks, a marketing executive; Arnold, a former real estate
agent; and Devito, a retired barber, all allege they developed
hepatitis C after getting propofol from tainted containers
during colonoscopies, according to court filings.  Eglet  and  Will Kemp , another Vegas lawyer representing
Sacks and Devito, described the jumbo-sized propofol vials as
“weapons of mass infection,” in the first trial over Teva’s
marketing of the drug.  A Las Vegas jury awarded  Henry Chanin , a private-school
principal, and his wife $5.1 million in compensatory damages and
$500 million in punitive damages against Teva and Baxter. Chanin
argued he developed hepatitis C after getting tainted propofol
during a colonoscopy.  Punitive Damages  Jurors ordered a Teva unit to pay $356 million of the
punitive award while assessing $144 million of the award to
Baxter. A judge later added $8.4 million in attorneys’ fees and
$9 million in interest to the final amount. It was the fourth-
largest U.S. jury award of 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg News.  Teva officials asked the  Nevada Supreme Court  to throw out
Chanin’s verdict, arguing the judge erred in not allowing them
to assert claims that medical providers were at fault for
Chanin’s infection. Those doctors already had settled claims
against them over the hepatitis C outbreak.  Eglet and Kemp may seek to top the Chanin verdict. Eglet
asked members of the current jury pool Aug. 8 whether they would
have a problem being asked “to put $600 million in a verdict
form for punitive damages,” according to a transcript.  ‘Jumbo Dangerous Vials’  During opening statements today, Eglet told jurors the
companies knew in the early 1990s that selling propofol in
“jumbo dangerous vials” would encourage reuse of the
containers and pose a risk of exposure to blood-borne diseases,
such as hepatitis.  Instead of shifting to smaller vials, the companies
retained the larger containers to hold down production costs and
continued to sell a product “that was unfit for the purpose for
which it is being sold,” Eglet said.  The case is Sacks v. Endoscopy Center of Southern Nevada
LLC, 08A572315, District Court for  Clark County , Nevada (Las
Vegas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  