-- 
Ex-Mets First Baseman Mike Jacobs Banned for HGH, First in North America

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-08-18T16:15:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/ex-mets-first-baseman-mike-jacobs-banned-for-hgh-first-in-north-america.html
Former New York Mets first baseman
Mike Jacobs became the first North American athlete to fail a
test for human growth hormone and was banned for 50 games in the
minor league where he now plays.  Jacobs, now playing for the  Colorado Rockies ’ Triple-A
affiliate in Colorado Springs, was banned effective immediately,
 Major League Baseball  said in a news release.  Major League Baseball instituted blood tests for the
muscle-building drug in the minors in July 2010, with no such
testing at the major-league level. Baseball spokesman Pat Courtney said Jacobs was the first athlete in North America to
fail an HGH test.  The first HGH case worldwide was reported in February 2010,
when it was announced that British rugby player Terry Newton had
failed an out-of-competition test the previous November. In
March of this year, the international cycling federation, or
UCI, said Patrik Sinkewitz of  Germany  tested positive for the
drug.  The  National Football League  and its players agreed this
month to start blood testing for HGH as part of a 10-year
collective bargaining agreement, with details of the program
still being negotiated. The  International Olympic Committee 
imposed HGH tests at the Summer and Winter Games starting in
2004.  The 30-year-old Jacobs was batting .298 with 23 home runs
and 97 runs batted in this season for Colorado Springs, a member
of the Pacific Coast League.  He made his major-league debut with the Mets in 2005.
Jacobs played for the Florida Marlins from 2006 to 2008 before
stints with the Kansas City Royals and then again with the Mets
last season. Jacobs has a .253 major-league career batting
average with 100 home runs and 310 RBI.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 