-- 
Former NFL Players Accuse League of Ignoring Consequences of Head Injuries

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-08-19T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/ex-players-suit-says-nfl-ignores-head-injuries-to-sate-fans-appetites.html
Former quarterback Jim McMahon and
six other players accused the  National Football League  of
ignoring the consequences of head injuries to promote on-field
violence for the fans.  The NFL has known that players who suffered repeated
concussions were likely to experience symptoms of post-traumatic
brain injury including headaches, dizziness and memory loss, the
group said in a complaint filed Aug. 17 in Philadelphia federal
court. The league failed to develop appropriate ways to identify
players who were at risk, said the players, who are demanding
medical monitoring.  Since the 1970s, the league has “turned a blind eye” to
players being coached to tackle, butt and injure opposing
players because of an “interest in keeping its fan base excited
and interested in the violence of this sport,” according to the
complaint.  “We have not seen the complaint but would vigorously
contest any claims of this kind,”  Greg Aiello , a spokesman for
the New York-based NFL, said yesterday in an e-mail.  The group is seeking to represent all former NFL players
who sustained concussions or suffered symptoms while in the
league and who have developed chronic headaches, dizziness or
dementia since retiring. They’re also seeking to cover current
players who have suffered head injuries and who haven’t been
properly monitored or evaluated.  Falcons, Eagles  In addition to McMahon, the group includes former Atlanta
Falcons players Charles Ray Easterling and Wayne Radloff, former
Philadelphia Eagles player Gerald Feehery, former Cleveland
Browns player Joseph E. Thomas and Michael Thomas Furrey, who
played for the  Washington Redskins  until this season. The group
also includes former Dallas Cowboy Steve Kiner.  A similar lawsuit was filed against the NFL last month by
75 former players in California state court in  Los Angeles ,
alleging the league knew as early as the 1920s that concussions
were harmful, according to the  Associated Press .  The NFL has pledged $1 million to Boston University’s
Center for the Study of Traumatic Encephalopathy to research how
to prevent and treat brain injuries. In February, the league
imposed a protocol on team doctors and trainers to assess
players who have sustained concussions during games.  Guidelines on Concussions  The league, which began issuing guidelines on concussions
in 2007, has paid out $13 million to 151 former players through
the NFL’s “88 Plan,” which grants players with brain disease
as much as $88,000 a year. Players who are medically diagnosed
with Alzheimer’s, dementia, or ALS would qualify for the benefit
“without respect to cause,” Aiello said in an e-mail.  Lawyers for the group said the 88 plan and a neuro-
cognitive disability benefit plan introduced this year in a new
collective bargaining agreement are inadequate as they put
limits on the types of payments, the ages of the players and the
annual allowance. Medical monitoring, including genetic testing,
is needed, the attorneys said in a statement.  “Establishing a systematic protocol to monitor NFL players
and identify players at risk is vital so that current and future
players can avoid the long-term debilitating problems their
predecessors have been living with everyday,” the lawyers said.  The case is Easterling v. National Football League Inc.,
11-05209, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of  Pennsylvania 
(Philadelphia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 