-- 
Existing U.S. Home Sales Unexpectedly Decline to 4.67 Million Annual Rate

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-08-18T14:38:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/existing-home-sales-in-u-s-fell-in-july.html
Sales of U.S. previously owned homes
unexpectedly dropped in July, reflecting an increase in contract
cancellations due to strict lending rules and low appraisals.  Purchases decreased 3.5 percent to a 4.67 million annual
rate, the weakest since November, figures from the National
Association of Realtors showed today in  Washington . The median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for an
increase in sales. The median price dropped 4.4 percent from a
year earlier, and 16 percent of real estate agents polled said
they had at least one pending contract canceled last month.  Even with historically low borrowing costs and foreclosure-
induced price declines, fewer homebuyers are entering the market.
Job growth that’s failed to bring unemployment below 9.1 percent
alongside a steady supply of distressed dwellings indicates many
Americans may still not be in a position to consider purchasing
a home.  “Home buying will be conservative in the months ahead
until we get a sense of which direction this economy is
heading,” said Robert Dye, chief economist at Comerica Inc. in
 Dallas , who forecast a decline for July. “No one wants to buy
into a soft housing market. We’ve seen prices remain soft in
many areas.”  Existing home sales were projected to increase to a 4.9
million rate in July, according to the median of 74 forecasts in
a Bloomberg News survey. Economists’ estimates ranged from 4.59
million to 5.15 million. The NAR revised the June sales rate to
4.84, up from a previously estimated 4.77 million rate.  Other Data  Other reports today showed the cost of living rose more
than forecast in July, more workers than forecast filed claims
for jobless benefits last week and manufacturing in the
Philadelphia Fed region plunged.  The consumer-price index increased 0.5 percent from June,
more than twice the 0.2 percent median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News, figures from the Labor Department
showed. The so-called core gauge, which excludes volatile food
and fuel costs, rose 0.2 percent.  The number of applications for unemployment insurance
payments climbed by 9,000 to 408,000 in the week ended Aug. 13,
the highest in a month, other Labor Department figures showed.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg projected a rise in claims to
400,000, according to the median forecast.  The Fed Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic index
plunged to minus 30.7 this month, the lowest since March 2009,
from 3.2 in July. The August gauge exceeded the most pessimistic
projection in a Bloomberg survey in which the median estimate
was 2. Readings less than zero signal contraction in the area
covering eastern  Pennsylvania , southern  New Jersey  and  Delaware .  Shares Plunge  Stocks extended losses after the reports. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index slumped 4.3 percent to 1,142.97 at 10:34 a.m.
in  New York .  Treasury securities  jumped, sending the yield on
the benchmark 10-year note down to 2.04 percent from 2.17
percent late yesterday.  Also today,  consumer confidence  in the U.S. economic
outlook slumped in August to the lowest level since the
recession, the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index showed. The
monthly expectations gauge dropped to minus 34, the weakest
since March 2009, from minus 22 in July. The weekly measure of
current conditions was minus 48.3 for the period ended Aug. 14
compared with minus 49.1.  More Cancellations  NAR chief economist  Lawrence Yun  said in a news conference
today as the figures were released that cancellations in the
past two months were up from about 10 percent last year.
Difficulty in getting appraisals that match the loan amount and
“overly stringent” lending rules were among the reasons for
the increase, he said. In addition, member agents mentioned an
increase in “other problems,” which include waning buyer
confidence, he said.  Investor purchases showed a “slight decline” in July from
earlier this year, Yun said.  The median price of a previously owned unsold home
decreased to $174,000 from $182,100 in July 2010.  The “silver lining” of today’s report is that inventories
look to be under control, Yun said. There were 3.65 million
houses on the market, which translates to a 9.4 months’ supply
at the current sales rate. Inventory during this time of year
usually reaches about 4 million homes, Yun said, adding that it
may decline to about 3 million by the end of 2011.  Housing, the industry that precipitated the U.S. recession
lasting from 2007 to 2009, has not recovered at the same pace as
the rest of the economy as unemployment hovers around 9 percent
for a second year. After reaching an annual peak of 7.08 million
in 2005, existing home sales fell to 4.91 million last year, the
lowest level since 1997.  Rates Fall  Lower  mortgage rates  that have helped increase refinancing
haven’t boosted home sales. The average rate on a 30-year fixed
loan decreased to 4.32 percent in the week ended Aug. 12, the
lowest since November, according to the  Mortgage Bankers
Association . Meanwhile, the group’s purchase gauge fell 9.1
percent that week to the lowest level in a year and the second-
weakest since 1997.  “The latest mortgages applications data reinforce that low
mortgage rates, while helping, aren’t going to solve this
problem,” said  Eric Green , chief market economist at TD
Securities Inc. in New York. “They help mainly with refis.”  About three-quarters of banks said they expected the pace
of mortgage lending “to remain at about the same level through
the rest of 2011,” according to the  Federal Reserve ’s survey of
senior loan officers earlier this week.  “Nothing’s really strong out there, and I would reiterate
that most of our markets continue to still be soft, softer, and
softest,” D.R. Horton Inc. Chief Executive Officer Donald Tomnitz said on a conference call with investors on July 28. “I
would anticipate that ‘12 will be better than ‘11 but I don’t
expect it to be significantly better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  