-- 
Exxaro Resources Profit Climbs 33% on Coal, Iron-Ore Gains

-- B y   J a n a   M a r a i s
-- 
2011-08-18T16:02:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/exxaro-resources-headline-earnings-jumped-53-during-six-months-to-june-30.html
Exxaro Resources Ltd. (EXX) , the second-
largest coal producer in  South Africa , said first-half profit
rose 33 percent as increased demand for the fuel drove up prices
and its share in an iron-ore venture boosted earnings.  Net income climbed to 3.2 billion rand ($450 million) from
2.4 billion rand a year earlier, the Pretoria-based company said
today in a statement. Sales rose 22 percent to 9.6 billion rand.  Coal producers in South Africa have seen profits buoyed by
higher prices as sales to steelmakers and power plants recover.
An improved performance at its mineral sands businesses and an
increased contribution from a 20 percent stake in  Kumba Iron Ore
Ltd. (KIO) ’s Sishen mine boosted earnings, Exxaro said.  While Exxaro doesn’t produce  iron ore  itself, it is
“constantly evaluating” projects in West Africa and  Australia 
and would consider raising equity funding to buy the right
assets, Finance Director Wim De Klerk told reporters in
Johannesburg.  The stake in Kumba’s Sishen venture contributed 2.4 billion
rand to profit, Exxaro said in the statement.  Headline earnings per share, which exclude a 439 million-
rand impairment on Exxaro’s Zincor refinery, jumped 53 percent
to 10.45 rand, Exxaro said in the statement. That beat a
consensus analyst estimate of 9.92 rand, according to a
Macquarie First South note e-mailed to clients yesterday.  ‘Logistical Challenges’  Exxaro’s main domestic coal clients are Eskom Holdings
Ltd., South Africa’s main power utility, and ArcelorMittal South
Africa Ltd., the continent’s biggest steelmaker. Lower demand
from Eskom was partially offset by a 14 percent increase in
other local sales, mainly to ArcelorMittal, Exxaro said.  Steam coal at South Africa’s  Richards Bay  port, the
country’s main coal export harbor, traded at an average $121.30
a metric ton in the first half, 39 percent higher than a year
earlier, according to McCloskey Group Ltd. data on Bloomberg.  While the recovery in demand and prices will continue in
the second half, Exxaro will only be able to use 2.9 million
tons of its 6.3 million-ton export allocation at Richards Bay
this year because of “logistical challenges,” it said.  The miner is evaluating early-stage coal exploration
projects in  Mozambique  and would also “like to get into
copper,” De Klerk said.  Exxaro declared an interim dividend of 3 rand a share.  The stock fell 3.7 percent to 171.01 rand by the 5 p.m.
close in Johannesburg, compared with 3 percent slump in the
benchmark FTSE/JSE All Share Index.  “I don’t think the share drop is at all because of the
results,” Byron Lotter, portfolio manager at Vestact, said by
telephone from Johannesburg. “If the shareholders were
disappointed, we would have seen a much bigger drop.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Marais in Johannesburg at 
 jmarais@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  