-- 
Exxon Sues U.S. Interior Department Over Canceled Gulf of Mexico Leases

-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 
2011-08-18T19:14:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/exxon-sues-u-s-interior-department-over-canceled-gulf-of-mexico-leases.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. sued the U.S.
Interior Department, asking a judge to set aside the agency’s
decision to cancel offshore leases that may yield “billions of
barrels of oil.”  The department overstepped its authority in a ruling on
Gulf of  Mexico  leases for the so-called Julia Unit, Exxon Mobil
said in a complaint filed Aug. 12 in federal court in  Lake
Charles ,  Louisiana .  Statoil ASA (STL) , a partner of Exxon Mobil’s in
the Julia fields, filed a similar lawsuit in the same court on
Aug. 15.  “The Interior decision is arbitrary, capricious, an abuse
of discretion, or otherwise contrary to law,” and “deprives
Exxon Mobil of property without due process of law,” the
Irving, Texas-based company said in its complaint.  Exxon Mobil, the world’s largest publicly traded oil
company, said federal regulations allow oil producers to suspend
production in their fields, partly “to facilitate proper
development of a lease.” Because of drilling complexity, Exxon
Mobil said, it asked for a suspension for Julia in 2008.  The Interior Department denied the request in 2009, stating
that the company “had not demonstrated a commitment to
production,” according to court papers. Unsuccessful appeals
followed.  The Interior Department is reviewing the Exxon Mobil
complaint, Melissa Schwartz, spokeswoman for the department’s
 Bureau of Ocean Energy Management , Regulation and Enforcement,
said in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Safe Development’  “Our priority remains the safe development of the nation’s
offshore energy resources, which is why we continue to approve
extensions that meet regulatory standards,” Schwartz said. The
government must respond to the Exxon suit within 60 days of
receiving the Aug. 15 summons, according to a court filing.  The lawsuits were reported earlier by the Wall Street
Journal.  Analysts Fadel Gheit at Oppenheimer & Co. in  New York  and
Brian Youngberg at  Edward Jones  in  St. Louis  said they
ultimately expect Exxon Mobil to reach an agreement with the
government to keep the leases. Both said they hadn’t heard of
the Julia discovery before the lawsuit.  “Exxon’s not just going to walk away from it,” said
Gheit, who rates the shares “outperform” and owns an
undisclosed number of them.  Shares Drop  Exxon Mobil fell $3.24, or 4.4 percent, to $70.92 at 2:49
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading as crude oil
slumped the most in a week after Morgan Stanley and Deutsche
Bank AG cut their forecasts for global economic expansion.
Statoil’s American depositary receipts, each representing one
ordinary share, declined $1.68, or 7 percent, to $22.40.  Wyn Hornbuckle, a U.S. Justice Department spokesman,
declined to comment on the dispute.  Jonathan A. Hunter , lead
attorney on the suit for Exxon, couldn’t immediately be reached
for comment.  President Barack Obama stopped deep-water oil and natural-
gas drilling early last year after a  BP Plc (BP/)  well blew out off
the Louisiana coast, claiming 11 lives and causing the largest
U.S. oil spill. Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  lifted the ban in
October.  Exxon alleges that the Interior Department terminated the
Julia leases to gain new leases and make more money.  “Cancellation of the original Julia leases would give
Interior the opportunity to collect millions of dollars in
bonuses and royalties that it otherwise would not be entitled to
collect,” Exxon said in court papers.  If the agency’s decision stands, Exxon Mobil and Statoil
will “lose the enormous value of those leases and their
hundreds of millions of dollars in investments,” Statoil said
in its complaint.  Ola Morten Aanestad, a spokesman for Stavanger, Norway-
based Statoil, had no immediate comment on the complaints.  The case is  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  v. Kenneth Salazar, 11CV1474,
U.S. District Court, Western District of Louisiana (Lake
Charles).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 