-- 
F1 Chief Says India Grand Prix on Track After Inspection Delay

-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 
2011-08-18T20:35:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/f1-chief-says-india-grand-prix-on-track-after-inspection-delay.html
Formula One chief executive  Bernie Ecclestone  said preparations for India’s inaugural Grand Prix
are on schedule after an inspection of the circuit still being
built on the outskirts of New Delhi was delayed by a month.  “We have people on the ground on a daily basis and they’re
telling me we have no problems with construction and everything
is on time,” Ecclestone, who heads the Formula One Group that
organizes the 19-race series, said in India’s capital.  F1 officials will now test the Buddh International Circuit
developed by Indian construction company  Jaiprakash Associates
Ltd. (JPA)  on Aug. 31, Ecclestone said at a sponsorship event. “It
will be signed-off on in the first week of September,” ahead of
the Oct. 30 race, he said.  Guidelines of the Federation Internationale de
l’Automobile, the world’s governing body for motorsport,
stipulate tracks should be fully tested at least 90 days before
a competition.  Far from the glamour of  Monaco ’s seafront circuit or the
city-center race staged in  Singapore , the Indian Grand Prix will
be hosted in the Delhi satellite town of Greater Noida, where
farmland is being swallowed up by gated communities for a
surging middle class. While ticket prices are yet to be
announced, the average price of entry into this year’s Chinese
race was $385, six months’ income for the 80 percent of  India ’s
1.2 billion people the World Bank estimates live on less than $2
a day.  “We were ready for the inspection in the first week of
August but we all agreed that it made sense” for F1’s Race
Director Charlie Whiting “to come at the end of the month,”
Vicky Chandhok, president of the  Federation of Motor Sports
Clubs of India , said today in a phone interview. “Logistically,
it made sense for Whiting to fly to Delhi around the same time
as the other inspections in the region.”  ‘Lot of Work’  Whiting will evaluate progress in finishing the pit-lane
and grandstand area along with the necessary safety measures at
Jaypee’s Sports City, about 30 miles southeast of  New Delhi ,
said Chandhok. “There are parts that need a lot of work,” he
said. “I think they’ll have it done by the end of September.”  He described Whiting’s inspection as an “open dialogue”
instead of “a series of ultimatums where we either meet a
deadline or we’re out.”  Sameer Kumar, the press officer handling the grand prix for
Jaiprakash Associates, said the company would not comment on the
race until Aug. 20, when details on ticket availability for the
race are scheduled to be released.  Monsoon rains have slowed work at the circuit, Raju Kapai,
a 33-year-old construction worker who has been at the site for
two years, said in an interview. “Rain has made work
impossible, we have not made much progress in the last 10
days,” Kapai said.  Almost a year after the Indian capital’s Commonwealth Games
was hit by the collapse of a pedestrian bridge less than a month
before the opening ceremony and international headlines over
filthy athletes’ accommodation, Chandhok and his son, Karun Chandhok, a reserve driver for F1’s Team Lotus, said the absence
of state agencies had made life easier.  “Luckily, we don’t have the government involved,” said
Vicky Chandhok.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in New Delhi at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at   samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  