-- 
Fed Dissenters, Euro Tax, Zynga Sued, Apple: Compliance

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-08-18T13:08:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/fed-dissenters-euro-transaction-tax-zynga-apple-melanoma-compliance.html
Charles Plosser , president of the
 Federal Reserve  Bank of Philadelphia, said the Fed will probably
need to raise  interest rates  before mid-2013 and that policy
makers should have waited to see how the economy performed
before pledging to hold rates at record lows for two years.  “It was inappropriate policy at an inappropriate time,”
Plosser, 62, said yesterday in a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt. Plosser spoke in
his first interview since he dissented from a Fed decision on
Aug. 9 to step up stimulus for an economic recovery that’s
“considerably slower” than anticipated.  Plosser said that it wasn’t clear that the economy needed
additional stimulus, especially given rising inflation and a
decline in the unemployment rate since November to 9.1 percent.  Plosser,  Richard Fisher  of Dallas and Narayana Kocherlakota
of Minneapolis opposed the commitment to hold the Fed’s
benchmark interest rate at a record low near zero until at least
mid-2013, saying they preferred to maintain a low-rate pledge
for an unspecified “extended period.” The last time three
policy makers dissented was in November 1992.  “We’re reacting too quickly here,” he said. “A little
patience might be a good idea.” He said he wanted to wait until
September to see whether the economic rebound anticipated in the
second half of the year materialized.  He said he is concerned that investors may interpret the
decision to hold rates low until mid-2013 as a reaction to
equities.  The central bank shouldn’t be viewed as a lifeline for the
economy when Congress and the White House can’t agree on
providing more fiscal stimulus, Plosser said.  It’s “a big mistake for policy makers inside the Fed to
believe if fiscal policy is hamstrung that the Fed has to act,”
he said. “That is not a good reason to act.”  In a March speech, Plosser laid out a strategy for
withdrawing record monetary stimulus, saying the Fed should set
a pace for selling its mortgage and Treasury holdings in
conjunction with raising interest rates.  For more from Plosser, click here and here.  Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas President Richard Fisher
echoed Plosser’s sentiment saying in a speech yesterday that the
central bank shouldn’t ease monetary policy whenever there is a
big drop in U.S. stock prices, an action he said some traders
might view as a “Bernanke put.”  “My long-standing belief is that the Federal Reserve
should never enact such asymmetric policies to protect stock
market traders and investors,” Fisher said in Midland, Texas
yesterday. “I believe my FOMC colleagues share this view.”  For more from Fisher, click here.  Compliance Policy  Bankers Criticize Franco-German Plans for EU Transaction Tax  Banks criticized Franco-German plans for a tax on financial
transactions, saying they will jeopardize economic growth and
distort markets, as the British, Dutch and Swedish governments
distanced themselves from the proposals.  “The financial-services industry should not be seen as an
additional source of  tax revenue  but as an essential part of a
stable and sustainable economy,” said the Association for
Financial Markets in Europe, which represents firms including
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA. A “tax would be a brake on
economic growth,” it said in a statement.  Lenders would pass on the cost of the levy to customers,
 Brian Mairs , a spokesman for the British Bankers’ Association, a
London-based lobby, said yesterday. A tax would only work if
implemented globally or it would trigger “distortions” in
financial markets, Mairs said.  The British government, which oversees Europe’s biggest
financial center, is preparing to clash with its French and
German counterparts over the levy, which would be applied in all
27 European Union countries. Finance chiefs failed to agree on a
transactions tax in September 2010, amid opposition from nations
including the U.K. The Swedish and Dutch governments also said
they oppose the plans. EU taxation proposals require unanimous
support from the bloc’s 27 governments to become law.  “Without the practical detail on scope and implementation,
this should be treated as political rhetoric for now,” Oriel
Securities Ltd. analysts including Mike Trippitt wrote in a note
yesterday to clients. “Implementation is knotty.”  The European Commission said it will draw up proposals for
the tax and an assessment of its potential economic impact,
before G-20 leaders meet in Cannes, France in November, backing
calls for the levy by French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  on Aug. 16.  For more, click here.  Northrop Says U.S. Drone Export Policies Hurt Global Sales  Wes Bush, chief executive officer of  Northrop Grumman
Corp. (NOC) , maker of the Global Hawk surveillance drone, said U.S.
rules that restrict exports of such systems hurt global sales.  “Today’s export restrictions are hurting the industry and
the U.S. without making us any safer,” Bush said at a
conference in Washington. The rules “could cause us to
relinquish our lead” in unmanned systems because allies may
develop their own equipment if they can’t buy U.S. drones, he
said.  Bush said the  Missile Technology Control Regime , a
voluntary set of rules accepted by 34 countries including the
U.S., is becoming an impediment to exports of unmanned systems.
The MTCR was originally established in 1987 to curb the
proliferation of unmanned systems such as guided missiles.  “The MTCR needs an overhaul,” Bush told reporters at the
Association of Unmanned Vehicles Systems International
conference. The Obama administration is taking a “hard look at
the policies that were developed when technologies and concerns
were quite different” with a view to reform.  Danish Central Bank Offers Liquidity Line With Asset Rules  Denmark’s central bank will accept bank loans as collateral
in an effort to boost liquidity as the country’s lenders wait
for the government to hammer out details of a proposal designed
to ease a regional banking crisis.  The new collateral rules will be effective from Oct. 1 and
run until further notice, the Copenhagen-based bank said Aug.
16. The new terms are made possible because of a change in the
country’s securities trading act and mirror measures in other
European countries, the bank said.  The government, which plans to withdraw its guarantees in
2013, this month proposed measures to spur consolidation and
help the industry sidestep Europe’s toughest insolvency laws.  “The central bank is moving independently of the
government to ensure the banking industry has sufficient
liquidity ahead of the 2013 expiration of state-guaranteed
bonds,” said Thomas Hovard, chief analyst in corporate bonds
for Danske Markets, a unit of the country’s biggest lender,
Danske Bank A/S. “They’re not going to wait for the
politicians. They’re looking at the sector and at the signals.
They’re acting independently.”  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Swedish Regulator Starts  Saab Automobile  Debt Collection  Sweden’s Debt Enforcement Agency started collection
proceedings against Saab Automobile after the cash-starved
carmaker failed to meet an Aug. 16 deadline to pay two
suppliers, an official at the regulator said.  “We’ve just begun by looking at what kind of bank accounts
they have and what kind of collateral there might be” in the
process that started yesterday, Tommy Barkman, a case worker at
the state agency, said in a telephone interview.  Saab was supposed to pay Kongsberg Automotive AB, a
Norwegian manufacturer of car-seat parts, and Infotiv AB, a
Gothenburg, Sweden-based consulting firm, a combined 4 million
kronor ($633,000).  “We’re in contact with the collection agency, but we can’t
comment any more than that,” Eric Geers, a spokesman at Saab,
said by telephone yesterday.  The collection process usually takes from one to three
months, and can be halted in the event Saab pays the debts
involved, Barkman said. At the end of the procedure, the Swedish
Tax Authority can request that Saab be put into bankruptcy in
the absence of payments.  U.K. Senior Police Cleared in Botched Phone-Hacking Probe  Britain’s police watchdog cleared former Metropolitan
Police Commissioner Paul Stephenson and his deputy John Yates in
relation to a botched phone-hacking investigation of  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s News of the World tabloid.  While police made mistakes such as ending the probe too
soon in 2009 and failing to notify victims, the senior officers
acknowledged the errors by resigning last month, the Independent
Police Complaints Commission said in a statement yesterday  on
its website . Yates will remain under investigation for his
alleged role in securing a job for the daughter of Neil Wallis,
a former editor at the now-defunct newspaper.  “It is difficult to see what further investigation would
achieve,” the IPCC said of Yates, who closed the earlier probe.
“We would agree that he made a poor decision in 2009. He
himself has acknowledged that, given what is now known, he made
a poor decision for which he has now taken responsibility.”  The police are under pressure to explain their links with
News Corp. journalists and their failure to further probe phone-
hacking by the News of the World following the 2007 jailing of
reporter, Clive Goodman, and a private investigator,  Glenn
Mulcaire , for intercepting phone messages.  “I am pleased that the IPCC have accepted that no
investigation into me is required in relation to my involvement
in the phone hacking matters,” Yates said in an e-mailed
statement. “However, I am disappointed with the IPCC’s decision
to investigate my peripheral involvement in recruitment process
of Neil Wallis’s daughter.”  Stephenson said in an e-mailed statement that he had
expected to be cleared of any wrongdoing.  Roche, Daiichi Sankyo Win U.S. Approval for Melanoma Drug  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  and Daiichi Sankyo Co. won U.S. clearance
to sell a melanoma drug that is among a new wave of medicines
developed to fight the deadliest form of skin cancer.  The Food and Drug Administration approved Zelboraf as a
therapy for patients whose tumors have spread, the agency said
in a statement yesterday. The drug, also known as vemurafenib,
is the second cleared for the disease this year.  Zelboraf may help patients with advanced melanoma, an
aggressive skin cancer blamed for  8,700 U.S. deaths  last year.
The drug from Roche, of Basel, Switzerland, and Tokyo-based
Daiichi will compete with  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) ’s Yervoy,
cleared in March as the first treatment proven to extend lives
of advanced melanoma patients.  Sales of the drug may reach 700 million Swiss francs ($891
million) by 2015,  Jack Scannell , an analyst with Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in London, said in May. Bristol-Myers, based in
New York, may earn $1.5 billion from Yervoy in 2015, according
to the average estimate of three analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Novartis’s Tasigna Drug Backed by U.K.; Bristol-Myers Rejected  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Tasigna drug won the backing of the U.K.’s
health-cost agency for use against a rare blood cancer after the
company agreed to discount the price.  The  National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence 
rejected a competing treatment, Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.’s
Sprycel, the agency said in a statement yesterday. Tasigna is
approved for patients whose chronic myeloid leukemia doesn’t
respond to a standard dose of Novartis’s Glivec treatment, or
those who can’t tolerate Glivec, according to draft guidelines.  Both Tasigna and Sprycel cost more than 30,000 pounds
($49,700) a year, and doctors said the two drugs are equally
effective, said the agency, known as NICE. Novartis offered a
reduction that allowed a recommendation for Tasigna, and the
Basel, Switzerland-based company asked that the discount be kept
confidential, the agency said.  NICE will issue final guidelines after hearing any appeals.
Chronic myeloid leukemia affects about 560 people a year in the
U.K., the agency said.  Whiskey, Wine Fraud on Americans Brings 5-Year Term for Briton  A British man who defrauded American and Canadian investors
of about 30 million pounds ($49 million) through investment
schemes tied to wine, whiskey, cognac and champagne was
sentenced to 5 years in prison.  Richard Gunter, 50, spent more than 1 million pounds from
the proceeds to buy luxury cars with personalized license
plates, the  Serious Fraud Office , which prosecuted the case,
said in a statement yesterday. Gunter’s U.K.-based company
called the Hallmark Partnership, and later Vintage Hallmark Plc,
operated like a  Ponzi scheme , prosecutors said.  Gunter promised investors high rates of return over short
periods of time, including a 50 percent return over 10 months
for a champagne investment, and a 110 percent return over three
months from whiskey investments.  Gunter’s 5-year sentence was handed down in June and
couldn’t be made public until yesterday because of reporting
restrictions related to Gunter’s co-defendant Robin Grove’s
trial.  Gunter had previously been found guilty for his involvement
in a similar wine investment scheme in 2008. He was sentenced to
4 1/2 years in prison for that fraud. He is to serve the terms
concurrently.  DLF Fined 6.3 Billion Rupees by India’s Antitrust Agency  India’s antitrust regulator fined developer  DLF Ltd. (DLFU)  6.3
billion rupees ($139 million) for “abuse of dominance” related
to the sale of apartments.  DLF, India’s largest developer, has received the
regulator’s order and will examine all options including an
appeal to the Competition Appellate Tribunal, the New Delhi-
based company said in a statement yesterday.  The Belaire Owners’ Association, representing buyers at the
Belaire housing complex in DLF City in Gurgaon, had complained
that DLF had delayed the project and inserted one-sided contract
clauses. The order said that DLF collected money from the buyers
before they were provided the sale agreements.  The  Competition Commission  of India, the nation’s antitrust
agency, concluded that DLF had imposed unfair conditions on the
sale of its services to consumers. It imposed a penalty that
amounts to 7 percent of DLF’s average annual turnover over the
past three years. The commission also directed the developer to
modify “unfair conditions” within three months, according to
the order posted on the agency’s website.  Wells Fargo Reaches Accord With Connecticut Over Home Loans  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  will consider about 1,535 Connecticut
mortgages for modification as part of an agreement with the
state on adjustable-rate loans, the state’s attorney general
said.  The accord resolves claims that Wachovia Corp. and Golden
West Financial Corp. violated state consumer protection laws,
Attorney General George Jepsen said in a statement yesterday.
The banks failed to adequately inform borrowers that minimum
payments on “pick-a-payment“-type mortgages wouldn’t cover
interest due, causing the balance to grow, Jepsen said.  “I want to stress that Wells Fargo inherited this problem
when it acquired Wachovia and Golden West,” Jepsen said. San
Francisco-based Wells Fargo bought Wachovia and its Golden West
unit in 2008.  To resolve the investigation, the bank also agreed to pay
Connecticut $741,465 to support the state’s foreclosure-
prevention efforts, Jepsen said.  The Connecticut accord is the 11th such agreement by the
lender, which has also settled with California, Texas, Florida,
Illinois, New Jersey and five other states.  Courts  ‘FarmVille’ Maker Zynga Sued Over Patents for Facebook Games  Zynga Inc., the largest developer of games for Facebook
Inc.’s social network, was sued by Agincourt Gaming LLC for
infringing two patents covering features of online games
including “FarmVille” and “Mafia Wars.”  Zynga, which is preparing for an initial public offering,
has a history of copying rather than devising its own games,
Susman Godfrey LLP, the law firm representing Agincourt, said in
a statement yesterday. Agincourt seeks unspecified damages and a
court order barring the conduct, according to its lawsuit, filed
in federal court in Wilmington, Delaware.  The patents cover processes for credit-based online gaming
and a prize-redemption system based on the outcome of game play,
according to Dallas-based Agincourt’s complaint.  “Agincourt’s patents cover the most lucrative aspects of
online social gaming -- including those comprising the bulk of
Zynga’s revenues -- as they contain the crucial ‘link’ that
allows for global, interactive prize redemption over the
Internet,” Bill Carmody, a senior partner at Susman Godfrey,
said in the statement.  “We’re not commenting” on the lawsuit, Adam Isserlis, a
spokesman for San Francisco-based Zynga, said in an e-mailed
statement.  The case is Agincourt Gaming LLC v. Zynga Inc., 11-00720,
U.S. District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Apple Sued by South Korean IPhone Users Over Location Data  A group of South Korean users of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone sued
the company in a local court, claiming it invaded their privacy
by allowing the smartphone to collect location data without
their consent.  About 27,000 people joined a class-action suit against
Apple’s South Korean unit and headquarters, seeking 1 million
won ($930) per person in damages, according to a notice posted
online by Mirae Law, which represents the plaintiffs. The suit
was filed in Changwon, south of Seoul, where the law firm is
located.  Apple was fined by South Korea’s telecommunications
regulator on Aug. 3 and ordered to encrypt location data of
people using iPhones to address privacy concerns. The company
also came under scrutiny of regulators around the world after an
April report by publisher O’Reilly Radar said iPhones record
information about users’ whereabouts, adding to legal disputes
the company is involved in over patent infringements.  Apple was fined 3 million won for collecting such data even
when some users turned off location-recognition features on
their iPhones, the Korea Communications Commission said Aug. 3.
Google Inc., which didn’t gather data in the same way, wasn’t
fined and only ordered to make the information unreadable, it
said.  Steve Park , a Seoul-based spokesman for Apple, declined to
comment on the case.  CIFG Sues Goldman Sachs Over $275 Million in Securities  CIFG Assurance North America Inc. sued  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  for fraud over $275 million in residential mortgage-backed
securities.  Goldman Sachs made misrepresentations in connection with
the securitization of a portfolio of 6,204 mortgage loans,
according to the lawsuit filed Aug. 16 in New York state Supreme
Court in Manhattan. CIFG insured about $275 million of
securities from the portfolio.  The investment bank duped investors and insurers into
assuming its market risk, even as Goldman Sachs profited from
underwriting fees, trading opportunities and bets on a decline
in the subprime market, New York-based CIFG said.  While Goldman Sachs aggressively sought to liquidate its
position in residential mortgage-backed securities, “it also
sought to exploit the crisis,” according to the complaint.  Michael Duvally, a spokesman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, declined to comment on the lawsuit.  The case is CIFG Assurance North America Inc. v. Goldman,
Sachs & Co., 652286/2011, New York Supreme Court, New York
County (Manhattan).  Madoff Trustee Amends UBS Case, Says Bank Misled Regulators  The trustee liquidating Bernard Madoff’s firm amended his
lawsuit seeking $2 billion from  UBS AG (UBSN) , claiming the Swiss bank
misled regulators in the U.S. and Luxembourg to help hide
Madoff’s Ponzi scheme.  UBS misled the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and
the Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier in
Luxembourg about Madoff, the trustee, Irving Picard, said
yesterday, according to a copy of the complaint posted on his
website.  “Madoff’s scheme could not have been accomplished unless
the UBS defendants had agreed to look the other way and to
pretend that they were truly ensuring the existence of assets
and trades when in fact they were not and never did,” according
to the amended complaint.  Peter McKillop, a spokesman for UBS, said the bank denies
the trustee’s allegations.  The case is Picard v. UBS AG, 11-cv-04212, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Interviews  Reback Expects Antitrust Probe of Google’s Motorola Buy  Gary Reback, an antitrust lawyer at Carr & Ferrell LLP,
talks about the possibility of an antitrust investigation into
Google Inc.’s agreement to buy Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.  He speaks with Emily Chang on Bloomberg Television’s
“Bloomberg West.” To watch the video, click here.  Acket Says Pegging Swiss Franc to Euro a ‘Daunting Task’  Janwillem Acket, chief economist at Julius Baer Group Ltd.,
talks about the outlook for the Swiss franc and possible
intervention from the Swiss National Bank.  He speaks from Zurich with Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg
Television’s “The Pulse.” To watch the video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Andrew Dunn at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 