-- 
Fed’s Dudley Says Rate Pledge Should Give ‘Support’ to Economy

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 
2011-08-18T12:35:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/fed-s-dudley-says-rate-pledge-should-give-support-to-economy.html
Federal Reserve Bank of New York
President William C. Dudley said the central bank’s commitment
last week to keep its benchmark  interest rate  near zero through
at least mid-2013 should help spur growth.  After the Fed’s Aug. 9 pledge, “market interest rates
generally moved lower, which should help provide some additional
support for economic activity and jobs,” Dudley, 58, said today
in the text of remarks given in  Newark , New Jersey. “I would
note, however, that conditions remain unsettled and the equity
market in particular has been quite volatile recently.”  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled he wouldn’t let dissent
from three policy makers over the rate commitment -- the most
opposition to a FOMC decision in 18 years -- stop him from
expanding record monetary stimulus. The remarks from Dudley, who
is vice chairman of the  Federal Open Market Committee  and voted
with Bernanke, come a day after Philadelphia Fed President
 Charles Plosser  and  Richard Fisher  of  Dallas , both of whom
dissented, said the plan won’t help boost the recovery.  Dudley’s remarks on the national economy and monetary
policy were similar to those he made last week in New York. He
reiterated that policy makers gave a “sober assessment” of the
outlook and that he has cut his forecast for growth. He again
didn’t quantify his new forecast.  The Fed made the rate pledge after  Standard & Poor’s 
downgraded the U.S. government’s credit rating and  Europe ’s debt
crisis worsened, roiling markets worldwide. The S&P 500 Index of
stocks tumbled 18 percent from the end of April through Aug. 8.
Plosser and Fisher said yesterday that the rate pledge may give
the impression that the U.S. central bank is seeking to boost
stocks.  Range of Tools  Fed officials also “discussed the range of policy tools”
available to boost growth and are “prepared to employ those
tools as appropriate,” the FOMC said. Yields on benchmark 10-
year Treasury notes dropped six basis points, or 0.06 percentage
point, to 2.1 percent at 8:26 a.m. in  New York , according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. That’s down from 2.32 percent on
Aug. 8, the day before the FOMC announcement.  While the FOMC didn’t specify which tools it’s considering
using, Bernanke said in July that if the recovery weakens the
Fed may weigh beginning a third round of bond purchases or
pledge to keep its balance sheet at a record high for a longer
period of time. The Fed purchased $1.7 trillion of Treasury and
mortgage debt from December 2008 to March 2010, and another $600
billion of Treasuries from November through June.  Weaker Than Expected  The economy grew at a weaker-than-projected 1.3 percent
annual rate in the second quarter, a July 29 government report
said. Growth in the prior quarter slowed to a 0.4 percent pace,
the weakest three-month period since the recovery began in June
2009.  Dudley said “there is still no sign that a strong recovery
has taken hold” in  New Jersey . Job growth in New Jersey has
been “sluggish,” in part because of government spending cuts,
he said. “Overall employment in the state has been weighed down
by declines in public sector employment.”  In addition, “the mortgage crisis continues to take a toll
on New Jersey homeowners,” Dudley said. About 7.4 percent of
debt in the state is “seriously delinquent,” comparable to the
national rate, he said. As of March, 10 percent of New Jersey
borrowers were in delinquency for 90 days or more, or had their
homes in foreclosure, he said. That’s higher than the national
level of 7.7 percent, he said.  “These debt and delinquency figures, together with the
weak jobs picture, suggest that New Jersey faces a number of
challenges,” Dudley said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  