-- 
Fed’s Dudley Sees Growth Rebounding This Year, ‘Quite Low’ Recession Risk

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 
2011-08-18T15:06:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/fed-s-dudley-sees-growth-rebounding-this-year-quite-low-recession-risk.html
Federal Reserve Bank of New York
President William C. Dudley said he expects that the  U.S.
economy  will improve this year after an “anemic” first half
and not slip back into a recession.  “We very much still expect the economy to recover,”
Dudley, 58, said today in response to audience questions after a
speech in  Newark ,  New Jersey . Growth during the second half of
2011 will be “significantly firmer” than in the first six
months, and the risk of recession remains “quite low,” he said.  The policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  last week
pledged to keep its benchmark  interest rate  near zero until at
least mid-2013 to revive a recovery that’s “considerably
slower” than anticipated. The Fed made the rate pledge after
 Standard & Poor’s  downgraded the U.S. government’s credit rating
and Europe’s debt crisis worsened, roiling markets worldwide.  The  S&P 500 Index  of stocks tumbled 18 percent from the end
of April through Aug. 8. Today, stocks sank while Treasuries
rallied, pushing 10-year yields to a record low, amid growing
concern the economy is slowing and speculation that European
banks lack sufficient capital.  The MSCI All-Country World Index of stocks lost 4 percent
at 11:03 a.m. in New York as the S&P 500 Index tumbled 4.1
percent. Ten-year Treasury note yields slid as much as 19 basis
points, or 0.19 percentage point, to 1.97 percent.  Dudley said that while he’s cut his growth forecast and the
risk of recession has increased, he doesn’t foresee an economic
contraction.  ‘Big Spike’  “Temporary factors” like the earthquake in  Japan  and a
“big spike” in  oil prices  contributed to the slowdown in the
first half of the year, he said. Recent economic data, like
July’s retail sales numbers, also suggest the economy is “very
much still growing,” he said.  Fed officials on Aug. 9 “discussed the range of policy
tools” available to boost growth and are “prepared to employ
those tools as appropriate,” the FOMC said.  “We have plenty of ammunition left,” Dudley said.  While the FOMC didn’t specify which tools it’s considering
using, Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in July that if the
recovery weakens the Fed may weigh beginning a third round of
bond purchases or pledge to keep its balance sheet at a record
high for a longer period of time. The Fed purchased $1.7
trillion of Treasury and mortgage debt from December 2008 to
March 2010, and another $600 billion of Treasuries from November
through June.  The economy grew at a weaker-than-projected 1.3 percent
annual rate in the second quarter, a July 29 government report
said. Growth in the prior quarter slowed to a 0.4 percent pace,
the worst three-month period since the recovery began in June
2009.  Labor Market Struggling  More Americans than forecast filed applications for
 unemployment benefits  last week, signaling the labor market is
struggling two years into the economic recovery, Labor
Department figures showed today in  Washington . Jobless claims
climbed by 9,000 to 408,000 in the week ended Aug. 13, the
highest in a month, the report showed.  The U.S. and  Europe  are “dangerously close to recession,”
Morgan Stanley analysts said in a report today. “Recent policy
errors, especially Europe’s slow and insufficient response to
the sovereign crisis and the drama around lifting the U.S. debt
ceiling, have weighed down on financial markets and eroded
business and consumer confidence.”  Morgan Stanley cut its forecast for global growth this year
to 3.9 percent, down from a previous forecast of 4.2 percent.  Banks Ease Loan Terms  A recession is unlikely partly because banks are easing
their lending requirements, Dudley said. Banks loosened credit
standards on most types of loans in the second quarter, with
commercial and industrial lenders citing “aggressive
competition” as a reason for the easier terms, the Fed said
Aug. 15 in its quarterly survey of senior loan officers.  “Even though financial conditions haven’t returned to
normal, they’re a lot better than they were a year ago,” Dudley
said. “It looks to us like credit availability is improving.”  In addition, “the cyclical sectors have already gone
down,” so “it’s harder for them to go down much further,”
Dudley said. The housing industry is “already very depressed”
and auto sales are “quite low,” he said.  The central bank’s rate commitment last week should help
spur growth, Dudley said in his speech.  After the Fed’s Aug. 9 pledge, “market interest rates
generally moved lower, which should help provide some additional
support for economic activity and jobs,” said Dudley, who
serves as FOMC vice chairman and voted with Bernanke. “I would
note, however, that conditions remain unsettled and the equity
market in particular has been quite volatile recently.”  The statement signaled Bernanke wouldn’t let dissent from
three policy makers over the rate commitment -- the most
opposition to a FOMC decision in 18 years -- stop him from
expanding record monetary stimulus.  Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  and  Richard Fisher  of  Dallas , both of whom dissented, said yesterday the
plan won’t help boost the recovery.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in  New York  at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  