-- 
Finland’s Scope for Stimulus ‘Considerably’ Less

-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 
2011-08-18T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/finland-to-lower-spending-raise-taxes-to-narrow-budget-deficit.html
Finland ’s ability to help businesses
weather a second economic slowdown has been curtailed as global
growth sputters, Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen said.  “The stimulus we can afford would be considerably smaller
than it was before the previous recession,” Urpilainen, 36,
said yesterday in an interview in Helsinki. “Our  budget deficit 
is 6.8 billion euros ($9.7 billion) next year and that poses
challenges for us.”  Finland’s export-driven economy is at risk of weakening as
growth slows in the euro region. The 17-member bloc grew just
0.2 percent in the second quarter, as a recovery in  Germany , the
area’s largest economy, almost ground to a halt. Finland’s
economy has rebounded from the 8.2 percent drop it suffered in
2009 when the global recession slashed exports.  The northernmost euro member is seeking to balance its
budget by 2015, in part through raising taxes and cutting
spending in next year’s budget as it prepares to tackle the
rising costs to care for  Europe ’s fastest aging population.  The government will cut spending by 1.16 billion euros and
raise taxes by 1.1 billion euros next year, Urpilainen said
yesterday. The deficit will decline to 6.8 billion euros next
year from 8.3 billion euros this year, she said.  Finland estimates a deficit of about 0.8 percent of gross
domestic product this year, following shortfalls of 2.8 percent
in 2010 and 2.9 percent in 2009, the Finance Ministry said in
June.  ‘Very Determined’  “We are very determined about balancing our budget,”
Urpilainen said. “We’re also aiming to boost employment by
tackling youth and long-term unemployment and improving growth.
These will help cut Finland’s government debt ratio.”  Finland’s cabinet agreed on the measures as part of a deal
to form a six-party coalition in June. The government of former
Prime Minister Matti Vanhanen spent 5.65 billion euros over two
years starting in 2009 to resuscitate the economy hit by the
steepest slump since the 1918 civil war.  The Nordic country’s three consecutive years of deficits
has reduced scope for any added stimulus to prevent a jump in
joblessness should the fiscal crisis in Europe deepen. About 40
percent of Finland’s economy comes from exports, such as
machinery and equipment, paper products and chemicals.  Finland, which is AAA rated, expects to have 88 billion
euros in debt by the end of next year, or 44 percent of gross
domestic product, the  Finance Ministry  said. Prime Minister
 Jyrki Katainen ’s cabinet is set to debate the budget proposal on
Sept. 14 and send it to parliament on Oct. 5, according to a
preliminary schedule by the Finance Ministry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net  