-- 
Fitch Says U.S. Can Issue More Debt Than Other AAA Nations

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-08-18T17:09:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/fitch-says-u-s-can-issue-more-debt-than-other-aaa-nations-1-.html
The U.S. is able to issue and
support more debt than other AAA-rated sovereign borrowers
because of the dollar’s status as the world’s main reserve
currency and its diversified economy,  Fitch Ratings  said.  Fitch’s view of the U.S.’s top credit rating, which it
affirmed Aug. 16, rebuts  Standard & Poor’s  decision on Aug. 5 to
downgrade the nation to AA+ from AAA. S&P said lawmakers failed
to cut spending enough to reduce record deficits. Moody’s
Investors Service affirmed its top U.S. ranking last week.  “Leaving aside arguments about debt dynamics, the U.S.’s
relative wealth and productivity, and political will, the U.S.
is anything but just another sovereign,” Fitch analysts Jeremy
Carter and Alex Griffiths wrote today in a report. “The pre-
eminence of the  U.S. dollar  as the global reserve currency means
the U.S. government effectively has first call on excess global
savings and supports low real  interest rates .”  Since New York-based S&P cut its rating on the U.S., the
yield on the Treasury 10-year note has dropped to a record low
1.97 percent. It was 3.33 percent in January and averaged 4.04
percent over the past decade. The security is a benchmark for
everything from home mortgages to  car loans . Treasuries are on
pace in August for the biggest monthly gain since December 2008.  U.S. Has Time  “The dollar’s status as the world’s reserve currency means
the sovereign is not exposed to any serious  liquidity risk ,”
London-based Griffiths and Carter wrote. “The lack of liquidity
risk gives the U.S. time to resolve its issues -- but it is
unquestionable that it needs a credible plan to reduce its debt
if it is to retain its AAA rating in the medium term.”  Marketable  U.S. government debt  outstanding has risen to
$9.4 trillion, from $4.34 trillion in mid-2007, as the
government borrowed to bail out the nation’s banking system and
lift the economy out of recession. The U.S. went from budget
surpluses averaging $139.7 billion from 1998 through 2001 to a
deficit of $1.29 trillion last year, Bloomberg data show.  The U.S. may be placed on negative outlook, indicating more
than a 50 percent probability the nation will be downgraded in
the next two years, should weaker-than-estimated growth or a
failure by a congressional committee to enact $1.2 trillion in
budget cuts under a plan reached this month cause debt levels to
rise more than estimated, Fitch said on Aug. 16 in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:  John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  