-- 
France Eases Ban on Short Selling of Banks Before Index Futures Expiration

-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s ,   S a r a h   J o n e s   a n d   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 
2011-08-18T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/france-eases-ban-on-short-selling-as-index-futures-expire-amid-stock-slide.html
France  relaxed a ban on selling
banks short, trying to calm index futures traders concerned the
rule would keep them from exchanging contracts when they expire
today.  Investors who are short index futures that include bank
shares can replace the holdings with new contracts, according to
the AMF, France’s financial regulator. Speculation the ban would
prevent that may have contributed to volatility yesterday, when
European stocks plunged the most since March 2009.  “They really should have thought about that earlier,”
said Trung-Tin Nguyen, a hedge-fund manager at TTN AG in Zurich.
“If you want to change the rules of the game, then do it
right.”  In a short sale, speculators borrow shares and sell them,
betting they will be able to purchase them later at a lower
price. France prohibited new short positions on financial stocks
last week after  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA, the nation’s second-biggest
bank, plunged the most since 2008.  Adding to concern yesterday were rules in the original ban
designed to quash so-called synthetic positions in which traders
bet against banks by shorting an index and buying every non-
financial stock it contains. Some brokerages insisted that
customers selling futures on gauges proved that they owned
financial stocks, according to e-mails sent to clients and
obtained by Bloomberg News.  Stocks Tumble  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index plummeted 4.8 percent yesterday
as U.S. economic data trailed forecasts, two Federal Reserve
officials said the central bank shouldn’t act to protect stock
investors and Swedish regulators warned that lenders are
unprepared for a freeze in money markets. Societe Generale slid
12 percent as the Wall Street Journal said that U.S. regulators
are stepping up scrutiny of  Europe ’s largest lenders.  “Any uncertainty about what products can be traded, when
and where, is bad for the market,” Richard Perrott, exchange
and diversified financials analyst at Berenberg Bank in  London ,
said in an interview yesterday. “There was huge confusion today
what participants could and couldn’t do, which isn’t helpful
when there are large share price movements. Potentially the
regulators didn’t think this through.”  Futures on France’s  CAC 40 Index (CAC)  expiring tomorrow plunged
5.6 percent to 3,071.5 at 8:35 p.m. in Paris yesterday.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  yesterday asked clients to ensure any sales
of Euro Stoxx 50 Index futures were a “hedge” aimed at
protecting against market declines, according to an e-mail sent
to clients obtained by Bloomberg News.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
demanded confirmation that all transactions involving restricted
securities, including derivatives positions, “comply with all
applicable laws, regulations and rules, including any applicable
short-selling restrictions,” another e-mail showed.  Spokespeople for Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs weren’t
immediately available to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net ;
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  