-- 
Franc Strengthens, Reversing Decline, on Signs Global Economy Is Slowing

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-08-18T15:54:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/franc-falls-on-bets-policy-makers-will-take-steps-to-curb-gains.html
Switzerland ’s franc strengthened
against the dollar and the euro, reversing earlier declines, on
concern the global economy will stall and European banks lack
sufficient capital to fund themselves.  The franc rose against all but two of 16 major peers
tracked by Bloomberg after  Lars Frisell , chief economist at
 Sweden ’s financial regulator, said it won’t take much for
interbank lending to freeze. The currency also gained after U.S.
reports showed applications for jobless benefits rose more than
forecast and manufacturing in the Philadelphia region
contracted. European stocks plunged the most in more than two
years.  “The market is very risk averse and demand for the franc
is going to continue, despite the best efforts of the SNB to
discourage it,” said  Lee Hardman , a currency strategist at Bank
of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in London. “It’s going to be
difficult for the  Swiss National Bank  to combat fundamental
flows against the backdrop of the debt crisis and slowing global
economy.”  Switzerland’s currency appreciated 0.1 percent to 79.07
centimes per dollar at 4:49 p.m. in London and strengthened 0.7
percent to 1.1317 per euro, after earlier falling as much as 1.3
percent.  The franc has risen 13 percent this year, making it the
best performer among a basket of 10 developed-market currencies,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.  Sight Deposits  The franc weakened earlier as traders bet the central bank
will take further steps to curb its appreciation.  Finance Minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf said yesterday she
is “concerned” about the franc’s strength and that the
government supports all SNB measures to weaken it.  The central bank said yesterday it will raise banks’ sight
deposits, or money that can be accessed immediately, to 200
billion francs from 120 billion francs, continue to repurchase
outstanding SNB bills and use foreign-exchange swap transactions
in an effort to curb the currency’s appreciation.  Still, the franc gained yesterday as investors bet the
measures to curb the currency’s gains would be insufficient.  “The SNB will have to come up with some major steps fairly
soon,” said Jane Foley, a senior currency strategist at
Rabobank International in  London . “It can’t go on making an
empty threat or the market will lose its patience and start
piling into the franc again.”  Lost Ground  The rate to exchange fixed- for floating-interest rate
payments denominated in francs turned negative for the first
time yesterday as the SNB appeared to have lost ground in its
fight to halt a surge in the currency. The rate fell to minus
seven basis points today from minus three basis points
yesterday.  “People still are buying Swiss securities out of fear and
wealth-preservation anxiety,” said Douglas Borthwick, head of
foreign-exchange trading at Stamford, Connecticut-based Faros
Trading. “Even with the decline in rates, investors continue to
purchase Swiss assets as well as gold.”  Swiss bonds rose, pushing 10-year yields down 21 basis
points to 0.85 percent, the lowest level since Bloomberg began
collecting data in 1994. That’s also the biggest one-day drop in
10-year Swiss bond yields on record. The yield on two-year notes
was negative for a second day, trading at minus five basis
points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  