-- 
Georgetown Basketball Team Brawls With Chinese Squad in Beijing Exhibition

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-08-18T16:34:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/georgetown-basketball-team-brawls-with-chinese-squad-in-beijing-exhibition.html
A basketball exhibition game between
 Georgetown University  and  China ’s Bayi Rockets in Beijing ended
after a melee between the two squads.  “Tonight, two great teams played a very competitive game
that unfortunately ended after heated exchanges with both
teams,” Hoyas coach John Thompson III said in a statement on
the Washington-based school’s website. “We sincerely regret
that this situation occurred.”  The Hoyas, facing the Rockets of the Chinese Basketball
Association at Olympic Sports Center Stadium, were in China on a
goodwill trip and playing their second game in two nights.  The contest was halted with 9 minutes, 32 seconds remaining
and the score tied 64-64 after it “deteriorated into a melee
during which players exchanged blows, chairs were thrown and
spectators tossed full water bottles at Hoyas players and
coaches headed to the locker room,” the Washington Post
 reported on its website .  An unidentified person threw a chair at Hoyas senior center
Henry Sims, and freshman forward Moses Ayegba walked onto the
court with a chair in his hand, though school officials said
Ayegba had been struck and grabbed the chair in self-defense,
the newspaper said.  The fight was the second time benches cleared during the
game, the Post said, adding that Georgetown was called for 28
fouls and Bayi 11 by halftime.  The Hoyas, scheduled to be in China for 10 days, were to
depart for Shanghai tomorrow morning, though it was unclear
whether the trip would continue, the Post said.  “We remain grateful for the opportunity our student-
athletes are having to engage in a sport they love here in
China, while strengthening their understanding of a nation we
respect and admire at  Georgetown University ,” Thompson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 