-- 
German Bund Yield Slides to Record Low on Concern Global-Growth Stalling

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-08-18T16:12:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/german-bund-yield-slides-to-11-month-low-amid-concern-growth-is-faltering.html
German bonds surged, pushing the 10-
year yield to a record low, amid concern the European debt
crisis will be prolonged after a number countries said they may
demand collateral before approving new loans to  Greece .  Benchmark yields extended their decline over the past two
days to 24 basis points after U.S. reports showed Philadelphia-
area manufacturing shrank and jobless claims unexpectedly rose,
fueling concern the global economy is slipping into a recession.
Greek bonds fell as  Austria  said it may demand collateral before
approving new loans for the country. Finland struck a deal with
Greece this week, and the Netherlands, Slovenia and Slovakia
said they will probably pursue similar security.  “There’s renewed concern about the political capability in
 Europe  to solve this crisis now that we’ve had more and more
countries asking Greece for some kind of collateral,” said
Niels From, chief analyst at Nordea Bank AB in Copenhagen.
“This of course reduces the possibility of this rescue package,
and the market is extremely concerned. The macro economic data
is simply increasing the fear of renewed recession.”  Ten-year bund yields fell 12 basis points to 2.08 percent
at 4:54 p.m. in  London , after dropping to a record 2.03 percent.
The 3.25 percent security due July 2021 gained 1.095, or 10.95
euros per 1,000-euro ($1,433) face amount, to 110.29.  Thirty-year yields declined 10 basis points to 2.99
percent. Two-year rates slid 11 basis points to 0.59 percent,
after touching 0.54 percent, a 13-month low.  Collateral Demands  Finland’s efforts to get collateral in exchange for new
rescue loans to Greece has sparked calls for similar deals from
other euro members, highlighting obstacles to approving a second
bailout for Europe’s most indebted country.  Austria and the Netherlands, both rated AAA, and Slovenia
and Slovakia will probably seek collateral arrangements after
the northernmost euro member was able to strike an agreement
with Greece, the countries said today.  Finland ’s demands were included in a July 21 agreement by
euro-area leaders to provide a new 159 billion-euro aid package
for Greece and grant broader powers to the region’s rescue fund.
At the summit, AAA rated Finland fought for extra assurances it
won’t lose money on its bailout contribution.  “It’s another concern that there could be a country in the
euro area that may make the process of the rescue plan a bit
slower,” said  Orlando Green , a fixed-income strategist at
Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in London. “That’s
the last thing the euro area needs right now. They need things
to move as quickly and as smoothly as possible.”  Growth Outlook  Greek two-year yields jumped 34 basis points to 35.33
percent, while the 10-year yield rose 34 basis points to 16
percent. The Portuguese 10-year rate climbed three basis points
to 10.49 percent.  Spain ’s two-year yield advanced 10 basis
points to 3.27 percent.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slumped 3.7 percent, while
the Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell 4.8 percent as concern about the
pace of global growth mounted.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic
index slid to minus 30.7 this month, the lowest since March
2009, from 3.2 in July. A separate report showed initial jobless
claims rose 9,000 last week to 408,000.  Morgan Stanley cut its euro-area growth forecast and
European Central Bank Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny
said he was fearful of a period of slow growth and low
inflation.  ‘Benign Inflation’  A “benign inflation outlook would allow the ECB to reverse
the course of its monetary action and start to cut  interest
rates  in early 2012,” Morgan Stanley economists including Elga Bartsch wrote in a note to clients. They predicted the ECB will
lower its benchmark rate to 1 percent by the end of 2012, from
1.5 percent.  “My personal fears are focused on a different direction, a
Japanese one,” Nowotny was quoted as saying in an interview in
Austrian daily newspaper  WirtschaftsBlatt . That means a “long-
term period of limited economic growth combined with low
inflation rates,” he added in the interview.  “We have growth concerns, that’s for sure,” said  Peter Schaffrik , head of European interest-rate strategy at  RBC
Capital Markets  in London. “There’s a realization that with low
rates for longer comes a flatter curve. That’s driving the bunds
up. On top of that there’s a bit of concern over everything
peripheral.”  Rate Bets  The extra yield, or spread, investors demand to hold 10-
year bunds instead of two-year notes was at 149 basis points,
the least since Aug. 4, based on closing Bloomberg generic
prices. The narrowing spread signals investor preference for the
longer-dated paper, which is more sensitive to the outlook for
inflation. Shorter-maturity notes are influenced more by the
outlook for monetary policy.  Euribor futures rose, pushing the implied yield on the
contract expiring in December down eight basis points to 1.19,
signaling increased wagers on lower borrowing costs. The ECB
raised rates twice this year to counter inflation running above
its 2 percent target.  German  government bonds  handed investors a 5.1 percent
return this year, compared with 7.3 percent for  U.S. Treasuries ,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish bonds have
gained 5.7 percent, while Italian debt earned 1.3 percent.
Portuguese securities lost 15 percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  