-- 
German Stocks Plunge the Most Since December 2008; HeidelbergCement Sinks

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-08-18T16:18:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/german-stocks-retreat-heidelbergcement-air-berlin-salzgitter-rwe-fall.html
(Corrects size of  DAX Index (DAX) ’s decline in first paragraph.)  German stocks sank the most since
December 2008 as two Federal Reserve officials said the
commitment to keep  interest rates  near zero for two years may
create a misperception that it’s aimed at boosting shares.  HeidelbergCement AG (HEI)  tumbled 9.5 percent after  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) ,
the world’s second-largest maker of cement, reported second-
quarter profit that fell more than analysts had estimated.  Air
Berlin Plc (AB1)  dropped 4 percent as its chief executive officer quit
as losses mounted at the company. ThyssenKrupp AG and  Salzgitter
AG (SZG)  declined with metal prices. Deutsche Bank AG and Commerzbank
AG lost at least 7 percent.  The benchmark DAX Index retreated 5.8 percent to 5,602.8 at
the 5:30 p.m. close in Frankfurt. The DAX has lost 26 percent
since this year’s high on May 2 amid concern that the global
economic recovery is stalling as European leaders struggle to
contain the region’s sovereign-debt crisis. The gauge extended
losses as futures on the index tumbled 150 points in five
minutes. The broader  HDAX Index (HDAX)  also declined 5.8 percent today.  “It doesn’t have to, but it could end badly,” said Markus Huber, head of German sales trading at ETX Capital in  London .
“Loads of traders got burned recently and are now a lot more
risk averse, meaning if they buy they would rather buy at levels
where there are major supports, like the recent low around
5,480.”  Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  said in an
interview yesterday that taking action after stocks tumbled
“signaled that we are in the business of supporting the stock
market.” Richard Fisher, the Dallas Fed chief, said in a speech
that the Fed “should never enact such asymmetric policies to
protect stock-market traders and investors.” Both also said the
policy won’t help spur growth.  Plosser’s Outlook  “It was inappropriate policy at an inappropriate time,”
Plosser said yesterday in a radio interview in  New York  on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt.
Policy makers will probably need to raise rates before 2013 and
should have waited to see how the economy performed, he said.  A report today showed that euro-area construction output
dropped for the first time in three months in June, led by
declines in  Germany  and France. Construction in the 17-nation
euro region fell 1.8 percent from May, when it rose a revised
0.1 percent, according to the European Union’s statistics office
in Luxembourg. From a year earlier, output plunged 11 percent.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic
index plunged to minus 30.7 in August, the lowest since March
2009. Economists had forecast a reading of 2, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. Readings greater
than zero signal expansion in the area covering eastern
Pennsylvania, southern  New Jersey  and Delaware.  Basic Materials  HeidelbergCement, the world’s third-largest maker of
cement, tumbled 9.5 percent to 29.13 euros, its lowest closing
price in two years. Competitor Holcim said net income declined
13 percent to 347 million Swiss francs ($439 million), missing
the 373.3 million-franc average estimate of seven analysts in a
Bloomberg survey. Sales dropped 11 percent to 5.49 billion
francs, compared with an estimate of 5.56 billion francs.  Air Berlin slipped 4 percent to 2.46 euros, the lowest
price since its 2006 initial public offering. CEO Joachim Hunold
resigned after 20 years in charge as  Europe ’s third-biggest
discount airline prepares to cut unprofitable routes and ground
planes in an effort to stem losses. Hunold, 61, plans to step
down on Sept. 1.  The airline will reduce flight frequencies and partly
withdraw from regional airports to focus on four main hubs, the
company said today in a statement. More than half of the one
million seats to be eliminated will go at the City Shuttle
division that serves European business centers.  ThyssenKrupp, Salzgitter  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  and Salzgitter AG, Germany’s biggest
steelmakers, followed European commodity companies lower. The
stocks lost 9.4 percent to 21.48 euros and 8.6 percent to 39.18
euros, respectively. The industry group decreased 6.9 percent,
among the worst performers on the benchmark Stoxx Europe 600
Index as aluminum, copper, lead, nickel, tin and zinc dropped on
the London Metal Exchange.  Deutsche Bank and Commerzbank, Germany’s biggest banks,
fell 7 percent to 27.96 euros and 10 percent to 1.90 euros,
respectively.  The Wall Street Journal reported that U.S. regulators have
increased their scrutiny of the local units of Europe’s largest
banks on concern that the sovereign-debt crisis may lead to
funding problems. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York has held
talks with the lenders and sought information about their access
to funds to maintain operations in the U.S., the newspaper said,
citing people it didn’t identify.  RWE, Solar Millennium  RWE AG (RWE) , Germany’s second-biggest utility, tumbled 7.2
percent to 25.65 euros as Nomura Holdings Inc. reiterated its
“reduce” recommendation on the stock and cut its share-price
estimate to 33 euros from 42 euros, citing the company’s “weak
balance sheet.”  Solar Millennium AG (S2M)  sank 29 percent to 7.76 euros, the
largest drop since at least 2005. The developer of the world’s
largest solar-power plant said the Blythe project in  California 
will switch to using photovoltaic technology, a rival
technology, for at least half its generation capacity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  