-- 
MGM Resorts Shares Fall After Founder Kerkorian Cuts Stake

-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 
2011-08-18T20:45:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/mgm-resorts-shares-fall-after-founder-kirk-kerkorian-cuts-stake.html
MGM Resorts International (MGM)  stock fell
to an 11-month low after billionaire founder  Kirk Kerkorian  sold
20 million shares, reducing his stake in the biggest Las Vegas
Strip casino owner to raise cash.  The shares dropped $1.54, or 13 percent, to $10 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
close was the lowest since Sept. 7 and the percentage decline
was the steepest since May 2009, as the wider market also fell.
MGM Resorts has slid 33 percent this year through yesterday.  The sale trims holdings of 94-year-old Kerkorian’s
investment company Tracinda Corp. to 23 percent, according to a
U.S. regulatory filing today. He had held about 27 percent.
Tracinda, based in  Beverly Hills ,  California , said it raised
$214.9 million in a block sale at about $10.74 a share.  Kerkorian is “raising cash to have fun with it,” MGM
Resorts Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Jim Murren said in
a phone interview. “His two passions in life are philanthropy
and investing, and you have to have cash to invest cash.”  Kerkorian built his fortune by investing in industries such
as airlines, movie studios and U.S. automakers. He built Las
Vegas-based MGM Resorts into the biggest casino operator in the
Nevada city, increasing its size by acquiring Mirage Resorts
from rival  Steve Wynn , as well as Mandalay Resort Group a few
years later.  “He has great motivation to be supportive, but also to
enjoy his life,” said Murren, speaking from Macau,  China . “We
are clearly and firmly under way in a recovery, and he remains
after this sale our largest single shareholder. He will benefit
along with all the other shareholders as this recovery
unfolds.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  