-- 
Gold May Advance From Record on Growth Concern, Survey Shows

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-08-18T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/gold-may-advance-from-record-on-growth-concern-survey-shows.html
Gold may extend gains from a record
as concern about debt crises and slowing growth boosts demand
for the metal as an alternative asset, a survey found.  Sixteen of 30 traders, investors and analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg, or 53 percent, said bullion will rise next week. Five
predicted a drop and nine were neutral. Gold for December
delivery was up 4.7 percent for this week at $1,824.50 an ounce
by 11 a.m. yesterday on the Comex in  New York  after reaching an
all-time high of $1,829.70 earlier in the day.  Bullion jumped to a record yesterday as equities plunged
worldwide and Treasuries rallied, driving yields to record lows.
Morgan Stanley cut its forecast for global growth this year amid
concern the economy is slowing. Gold holdings in exchange-traded
products last week reached 2,216.8 metric tons, the most ever,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The world is a particularly scary place at the moment
economically,” said Ross Norman, chief executive officer of
Sharps Pixley Ltd., a London-based bullion brokerage. “We’re
seeing very good physical buying lately. It’s a way of
preserving wealth.”  The attached chart tracks the results of the Bloomberg
survey, with the red bars derived by subtracting bearish
forecasts from bullish estimates. Readings below zero signal
that most respondents expect a decline. The green line shows the
gold price. The data are as of Aug. 12.  A gold allocation at 10 percent of assets “will protect
people no matter what scenario we get in the coming years,
whether it’s deflation, stagflation or a more virulent form of
inflation,” Mark O’Byrne, executive director of brokerage
GoldCore Ltd., said yesterday in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Countdown.”  The weekly gold survey, which started seven years ago, has
forecast prices accurately in 217 of 376 weeks, or 58 percent of
the time.  This week’s survey results: Bullish: 16 Bearish: 5 Neutral: 9  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  