-- 
BofA, Goldman, Apple, UBS, Madoff, TCW in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-08-18T11:59:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/goldman-apple-news-corp-bofa-madoff-french-gulch-tcw-in-court-news.html
Bank of America Corp. may face
billions of dollars more in liability for faulty mortgages if a
judge agrees with insurer  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  that the lender must buy
back loans even if the errors didn’t cause a borrower’s default.  If New York Supreme Court Justice Eileen Bransten and
judges in similar cases across the country  rule  that the issue
of “causation” doesn’t apply -- meaning it’s enough to show
that the loan was improperly made -- it “could significantly
impact” Bank of America’s potential costs, the bank said in a
regulatory filing this month.  Such court defeats may add as much as $9 billion to what
Bank of America owes bond insurers, according to hedge fund
Branch Hill Capital, which is betting against its stock and has
invested in MBIA. A victory for Armonk, New York-based MBIA may
also strengthen claims by mortgage-securities investors that
want the Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank to pay more than
the $8.5 billion it’s offered them as a settlement.  “You don’t have to wait until you’re in a severe accident
before you return the car with bad brakes,” said David Grais, a
partner in New York at Grais & Ellsworth LLP who represents
investors objecting to the bank’s proposed settlement with
Countrywide Financial Corp. mortgage-bond holders.  Any ruling on the issue, which was to be the subject of a
hearing today in state court in Manhattan, may come later than
anticipated because the proceeding was postponed until October.
The decision may intensify settlement talks between bond
insurers like MBIA and other banks that issued securities based
on faulty mortgages, according to the head of insurer  Assured
Guaranty Ltd. (AGO) , which is demanding money from lenders including
UBS AG and  Credit Suisse Group AG. (CSGN)   “If they lose that case, then our certainty of getting
reimbursed becomes a lot higher,” Dominic Frederico, Assured’s
chief executive officer, said in an interview. Bank of America
agreed in April to a deal it valued at $1.6 billion with
Hamilton, Bermuda-based Assured Guaranty to settle its mortgage
claims.  “It could change the playing field,” MBIA Chief Executive
Officer Jay Brown said on an Aug. 10 conference call with
analysts and investors when asked about the causation issue. It
could “have a very significant effect on the ability to rescind
or obtain recessionary damages,” he said. “So, it can affect
the view of both parties as to the likely outcome of the
trial.”  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for Bank of America, said in
an e-mail that Branch Hill Capital “consistently has overstated
Bank of America’s representation and warranty repurchase
exposure.”  “Their motives are not nuanced,” he said. “Less than a
year ago, they had estimated repurchase losses for Bank of
America of approximately $74 billion. They were wrong then, and
we believe that they are wrong now.”  The case is MBIA Insurance v. Countrywide Home Loans,
602825-08, New York State Supreme Court (New York County).  For more, click here.  New Suits  CIFG Sues Goldman Sachs Over $275 Million in Securities  CIFG Assurance North America Inc. sued  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  for fraud over $275 million in residential mortgage-backed
securities.  Goldman Sachs made misrepresentations in connection with
the securitization of a portfolio of 6,204 mortgage loans,
according to the lawsuit filed Aug. 16 in New York State Supreme
Court in Manhattan. CIFG insured about $275 million of
securities from the portfolio.  The investment bank duped investors and insurers into
assuming its market risk, even as Goldman Sachs profited from
underwriting fees, trading opportunities and bets on a decline
in the subprime market, New York-based CIFG said.  While Goldman Sachs aggressively sought to liquidate its
position in residential mortgage-backed securities, “it also
sought to exploit the crisis,” according to the complaint.  Michael Duvally, a spokesman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, declined to comment on the lawsuit.  The case is CIFG Assurance North America Inc. v. Goldman,
Sachs & Co., 652286/2011, New York Supreme Court, New York
County (Manhattan).  Apple Sued by South Korean IPhone Users Over Location Data  A group of South Korean users of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone sued
the company in a local court, claiming it invaded their privacy
by allowing the smartphone to collect location data without
their consent.  About 27,000 people joined a class-action lawsuit against
Apple’s South Korean unit and headquarters, seeking 1 million
won per person ($930) in damages, according to a notice posted
online by Mirae Law, which represents the plaintiffs. The suit
was filed in Changwon, south of Seoul, where the law firm is
located.  Apple was fined by South Korea’s telecommunications
regulator on Aug. 3 and ordered to encrypt location data of
people using iPhones to address privacy concerns. The company
also came under scrutiny from regulators around the world after
an April report by publisher O’Reilly Radar said iPhones record
information about users’ whereabouts, adding to legal disputes
the company is involved in over patent infringements.  Apple was fined 3 million won for collecting such data even
when some users turned off location-recognition features on
their iPhones, the Korea Communications Commission said Aug. 3.
Google Inc., which didn’t gather data in the same way, wasn’t
fined and was only ordered to make the information unreadable,
it said.  Earlier this year, Apple was sued in the U.S. by two iPhone
and iPad users who claimed the devices secretly collected
information on their movements.  Steve Park, a Seoul-based spokesman for Apple, declined to
comment on the case.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Madoff Trustee Amends UBS Case, Says Bank Misled Regulators  The trustee liquidating  Bernard Madoff ’s firm amended his
lawsuit seeking $2 billion from  UBS AG (UBSN) , claiming the Swiss bank
misled regulators in the U.S. and Luxembourg to help hide
Madoff’s Ponzi scheme.  UBS misled the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and
the Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier in
Luxembourg about Madoff, the trustee,  Irving Picard , said
yesterday in a filing in Manhattan federal court, according to a
copy of the complaint posted on his website. The filing couldn’t
immediately be confirmed in court records.  UBS, based in Zurich, hid Madoff’s role as the true
custodian of two so-called feeder funds that attracted investors
to Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities before his arrest in
December 2008, according to the complaint. Madoff pleaded guilty
to running a Ponzi scheme and is serving 150 years in federal
prison.  “Madoff’s scheme could not have been accomplished unless
the UBS defendants had agreed to look the other way and to
pretend that they were truly ensuring the existence of assets
and trades when in fact they were not and never did,” according
to the amended complaint.  Peter McKillop, a spokesman for UBS, said the bank denies
the trustee’s allegations.  “UBS was not aware of any wrongdoing by Mr. Madoff and
will take all appropriate steps to demonstrate that the
allegations are false and unfounded,” he said in an e-mail.  The case is Picard v. UBS AG, 11-cv-04212, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Facebook Says Ceglia E-Mailed ‘Authentic Contract’ to Lawyer  Paul Ceglia , the western New York man claiming part-
ownership of Facebook Inc., e-mailed the “authentic contract”
disproving his claim to a law firm in 2004, a lawyer for the
company told a judge.  Orin Snyder told U.S. Magistrate Judge Leslie Foschio at a
hearing in Buffalo, New York, yesterday that Ceglia sent the
contract, which made no mention of Facebook, to a lawyer at the
firm Sidley Austin LLP the year after Ceglia claims he signed a
contract with Facebook co-founder  Mark Zuckerberg  giving him an
equal share in the company.  The contract Facebook says is genuine was found both on
Ceglia’s computer and Sidley Austin’s e-mail server, Snyder told
Foschio. Snyder said the evidence proves Ceglia fabricated the
contract on which he bases his claim.  “The noose is tightening around the neck of the plaintiff
in this case and he knows it,” Snyder told Foschio.  Foschio said Ceglia must allow Facebook’s experts to
examine his Web-based e-mail accounts, which he said he used to
communicate with Zuckerberg in 2003 and 2004, before Zuckerberg
will be required to turn over 175 e-mails from his Harvard
University account. Ceglia claimed he copied e-mails with
Zuckerberg from his Web-based accounts into word-processing
documents he saved on floppy disks.  Facebook said the Harvard e-mails involve Zuckerberg and
Ceglia and others at StreetFax.com, Ceglia’s former company.  Ceglia’s lawyer, Jeffrey Lake, said the contract attached
to Ceglia’s complaint is the genuine one. Ceglia’s version of
the contract includes terms giving him a share of “The Face
Book” in exchange for a $1,000 investment, in addition to terms
referring to Zuckerberg’s StreetFax work.  After yesterday’s hearing, Lake said he plans to demand
computers, e-mails and instant messages from Zuckerberg, in
addition to early source code for the site. Ceglia claims
Zuckerberg used code from StreetFax in building Facebook.  The case is Ceglia v. Zuckerberg, 1:10-cv-00569, U.S.
District Court, Western District of New York (Buffalo).  For more, click here.  BNY Mellon Opposes N.Y. Move to Intervene in BofA Accord  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  asked a judge to reject a bid
by New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  to intervene in a
proposed $8.5 billion mortgage-bond settlement involving  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)   Schneiderman this month asked the New York state-court
judge overseeing the case to reject the deal, calling it unfair
to investors. Bank of New York, the trustee for the mortgage-
securitization trusts covered by the settlement, violated New
York law, Schneiderman said.  The settlement calls for Bank of America to pay $8.5
billion to resolve claims from investors in Countrywide
Financial Corp. mortgage bonds. Charlotte, North Carolina-based
Bank of America acquired Countrywide in 2008. Bank of New York,
along with 22 institutional investors, claim Schneiderman has no
standing to intervene in the case.  “The current settlement process allows for all investors -
-supporters and objectors -- to make their case before the
court, including those with even the smallest economic
interests,” Kevin Heine, a Bank of New York spokesman, said in
an e-mailed statement.  The attorney general’s claims about whether Bank of New
York acted in good faith “would hijack what should be an
expedited proceeding,” the bank said. Those claims could take
years to resolve, the bank said.  “No intervenor has demonstrated that the trustee was
presented with -- or could have achieved -- a better outcome
than the settlement the trustee obtained,” the investors said.
“That is precisely why all 22 of institutional investors chose
to support it.”  The bank, and the institutional investors, said the
proposed settlement proceeding isn’t the appropriate forum to
address the attorney general’s claims.  “Given that those who stand to be significantly affected
include New York State investors and pensioners, as well as
distressed homeowners residing throughout the state and country,
the state of New York has a broad and crucial interest in these
proceedings,” Danny Kanner, a Schneiderman spokesman, said in
an e-mailed statement responding to the opposition to his motion
to intervene.  The case is In the matter of Bank of New York Mellon,
651786/2011, New York State Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  Computer Hacking to Become  News Corp. (NWSA)  ‘Scandal,’ Watson Says  Revelations that U.K. tabloid journalists may have
graduated to hacking computers in addition to mobile phones may
form the next scandal facing Rupert Murdoch’s News Corp., a U.K.
lawmaker investigating privacy violations by the now-defunct
News of the World said.  Police and parliament have mostly focused their probes on
how journalists illegally accessed the voice mails of
celebrities, politicians, and crime victims, and who at the
company knew about it. More revelations of computer hacking and
other forms of spying could emerge, Tom Watson, a Labour Party
lawmaker, said yesterday.  “My own concerns are that this will lead to other forms of
covert surveillance and I think the next scandal will be
computer hacking and we’re going to be living with this for
weeks and months to come,” said Watson, a member of the
 Culture, Media and Sport Committee  that is investigating phone
hacking. Watson made the comments after the committee published
additional statements from News Corp. deputy chief operating
officer James Murdoch and others beyond what they offered in
their initial testimony July.  London’s Metropolitan Police opened a third investigation
into reporting tactics at the end of July which focuses on
computer hacking, while not specifically targeting News Corp.
The probe, dubbed Operation Tuleta, is considering “a number of
allegations regarding breach of privacy” and computer hacking
that they have received since January, police said.  The allegations are outside the scope of the two other
police probes opened earlier this year into phone hacking and
police bribery.  Tuleta began following allegations by Ian Hurst, a former
British Army intelligence officer. Hurst on Aug. 1 sued News
Group, the unit of the New York-based company that publishes the
Sun and formerly the News of the World, claiming it hired a
computer expert to hack into his e-mail, according to his
lawyer, Mark Lewis.  News International declined to comment via e-mail when
asked about computer hacking. Regarding the statements to
parliament, the company said, “We recognize the seriousness of
materials disclosed to the police and parliament and are
committed to working in a constructive and open way with all the
relevant authorities.”  In the U.S., Manhattan federal prosecutors have joined the
inquiry into allegations that News Corp.’s American marketing
arm hacked a password-protected website at Floorgraphics Inc.,
an attorney for Floorgraphics has said.  For more of this article, click here.  For more about News Corp.’s James Murdoch’s Parliamentary
testimony, click here.  BofA Said to Weigh Foreclosure Accord Allowing New York Probe  Bank of America Corp. may settle a state and federal probe
of foreclosure practices in a deal that lets New York proceed
with an inquiry into securitizations, according to two people
with direct knowledge of the talks.  The firm may pursue an accord with most of the 50 state
attorneys general, even if it omits New York’s Eric Schneiderman
and at least two other states that are opposed because a deal
would impede related inquiries, said one of the people.
Negotiations on a broad settlement stalled after Schneiderman
indicated he wouldn’t let it block his probe into the bundling
and sale of mortgages, said the people, who declined to be
identified because talks are private.  Chief Executive Officer Brian T. Moynihan, seeking to
reverse a 44 percent stock slide this year, has booked about $30
billion in settlements and writedowns to clean up mortgage
liabilities at the biggest U.S. bank since the start of 2010.
One of the largest legal matters still pending is the multi-
state probe into whether firms servicing mortgages used bogus
documents to justify foreclosures.  “They need to resolve this because it’s looming out there
as an unknown liability,” said Brian Chappelle, a partner at
mortgage-finance consultancy Potomac Partners LLC in Washington
and former executive at the Mortgage Bankers Association. “It’s
harming the housing recovery because the large institutions are
reluctant to originate new loans because of the uncertainty.”  Bank of America executives, concerned that a delay in
resolving the case is hurting the firm’s stock, are open to a
deal that would resolve most of it, even if some mortgage
investigations continue, said one of the people. The bank has
been pushing for liability releases for loan activities besides
servicing, such as securitization and lending.  Attorneys general from Delaware, Massachusetts and Nevada
have also voiced concern that a proposed settlement would
protect banks from mortgage investigations that aren’t yet
finished. Nevada Attorney General Catherine Cortez Masto, whose
office sued Bank of America and is conducting civil and criminal
foreclosure probes, said in an interview this week that she will
be “very cautious” about agreeing to a settlement that hinders
those inquiries.  Danny Kanner, a spokesman for Schneiderman, and Melissa
Karpinsky, a spokeswoman for Massachusetts Attorney General
Martha Coakley, declined to comment on Bank of America’s
settlement talks. Edie Cartwright, a spokeswoman for Masto,
didn’t comment. Jason Miller, a spokesman for Delaware Attorney
General  Beau Biden , didn’t respond to an e-mail.  For more, click here.  Judge to Review Madoff Trustee’s Anti-Class Action Lawsuit  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff said he will decide if the
liquidator of Bernard Madoff’s firm may stop a class-action
lawsuit against directors and advisers of so-called feeder fund
Thema International Fund Plc, according to a court filing Aug.
16 in Manhattan.  Trustee Irving Picard sued the class-action plaintiffs in
April, claiming they were undermining the U.S. bankruptcy
court’s jurisdiction over Madoff’s estate. They said Picard was
trying to “commandeer” their claims by suing some of the same
defendants and wouldn’t share any recoveries with them.  The case is Picard v. Repex, 11-cv-03477, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Mining Executive Kuhn Declared Fugitive by EPA over Dumping  Former mining-company executive Peter Kuhn was declared a
fugitive by the Environmental Protection Agency after he failed
to turn himself in for his role in a conspiracy to illegally
dispose of arsenic and lead.  Kuhn, former president of Reno, Nevada-based French Gulch
Nevada Mining Corp. and  Bullion River Gold Corp. (BLRVQ) , engaged in a
conspiracy to dump mining wastes on a hillside, county road and
stream near a company mine, the EPA said yesterday in a
statement. If convicted, Kuhn faces a possible prison term of 20
years.  On July 1, 2010, a U.S. District Court grand jury in the
Eastern District of California returned an indictment charging
Kuhn with one count of conspiracy and other crimes. Kuhn, 56,
becomes the 18th  fugitive  listed by the agency, according to the
EPA’s website.  A telephone message left with French Gulch Nevada Mining
wasn’t immediately returned. A telephone number on file for Kuhn
was disconnected.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Gundlach Denies DoubleLine Fund Is ‘Turbo-Charged’ With Risk  DoubleLine Capital LP’s  Jeffrey Gundlach  denied that his
total-return fund is “turbo-charged” with risky securities,
saying his management strategy is similar to what he used at TCW
Group Inc. before he was fired in 2009.  Under questioning by TCW’s lawyer in his fourth day of
testimony at a jury trial in Los Angeles, the money manager said
yesterday the way the different kinds of securities are put
together in the bond fund determines what risk there is rather
than the type of security by itself.  “With respect sir, you don’t know what you’re talking
about,” Gundlach told lawyer John Quinn.  Los Angeles-based TCW fired Gundlach, 51, in December 2009
and sued him the following month after more than half of its
fixed-income professionals joined his new firm. TCW, a unit of
Paris-based Societe Generale SA, seeks $375 million in damages,
claiming Gundlach stole its trade secrets, including client
portfolio data, to start DoubleLine.  Gundlach, who had worked at TCW for 25 years and who was
named Morningstar’s Fixed Income Manager of the Year in 2006,
countersued, saying TCW fired him to avoid having to pay
management and performance fees for the distressed-asset funds
his group managed and that went “through the roof.” Gundlach
seeks about $500 million.  The case is Trust Co. of the West v. Gundlach, BC429385,
California Superior Court, Los Angeles County.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Wells Fargo Reaches Accord With Connecticut Over Home Loans  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  will consider about 1,535 Connecticut
mortgages for modification as part of an agreement with the
state on adjustable-rate loans, the state’s attorney general
said.  The accord resolves claims that Wachovia Corp. and Golden
West Financial Corp. violated state consumer protection laws,
Attorney General George Jepsen said yesterday in a statement.
The banks failed to adequately inform borrowers that minimum
payments on “pick-a-payment“-type mortgages wouldn’t cover
interest due, causing the balance to grow, Jepsen said.  “I want to stress that Wells Fargo inherited this problem
when it acquired Wachovia and Golden West,” Jepsen said. San
Francisco-based Wells Fargo bought Wachovia and its Golden West
unit in 2008.  To resolve the investigation, the bank also agreed to pay
Connecticut $741,465 to support the state’s foreclosure-
prevention efforts, Jepsen said.  The Connecticut accord is the 11th such agreement by the
lender, which has also settled with California, Texas, Florida,
Illinois, New Jersey and five other states.  Jiau Loses Bid to Reverse Conviction in Insider-Trading Case  Winifred Jiau, a former consultant with expert networking
firm Primary Global Research LLC, lost a post-trial bid to
overturn her convictions on charges related to insider-trading.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff denied Jiau’s motion for an
acquittal or a new trial in federal court in Manhattan, where
she was convicted June 20 of conspiracy and securities fraud.  The jury found her guilty of passing information regarding
earnings and other matters on  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  and  Marvell
Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  to hedge fund managers Noah Freeman, a
former SAC Capital Advisors LP portfolio manager, and Samir
Barai, founder of New York-based Barai Capital Management LP.  Jiau, of Fremont, California, faces as long as 25 years in
prison when she is sentenced by Rakoff.  The case is U.S. v. Jiau, 11-cr-00161, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 