-- 
Range, Cabot Said to Be Subpoenaed by N.Y. Over Natural Gas

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-08-18T22:07:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/goodrich-cabot-said-to-be-subpoenaed-by-n-y-over-natural-gas.html
Range Resources Corp. (RRC) ,  Cabot Oil &
Gas Corp. (COG)  and  Goodrich Petroleum Corp. (GDP)  were subpoenaed by New
York over whether they accurately represented the profitability
and life spans of their natural gas wells, according to a person
familiar with the matter.  Chesapeake Energy Inc. also is being asked similar
questions about its wells, said the person, who declined to be
identified because the person isn’t authorized to speak publicly
about the matter.  The subpoenas, sent by New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman Aug. 8, request documents related to the formulas
used to determine how long the wells can be expected to produce
gas without new “fracking,” or hydraulic fracturing, the
person said. The subpoenas also seek information on how the
companies report gas reserves to investors following a 2008 U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission rule change.  Goodrich said today in a statement that it received
subpoenas from the attorney general and the SEC requesting
information related to it Haynesville Shale gas wells and
reserves. The company is cooperating, and there has been no
allegation of wrongdoing, Goodrich said.  “The company is confident that its disclosures relating to
its Haynesville Shale wells and reserves meet all applicable
legal requirements,” it said.  Martin Act  Spokesmen for the other companies didn’t return calls
seeking comment.  The subpoenas were sent under the Martin Act,  New York 
state’s securities fraud statute, which doesn’t require intent
to defraud as a prerequisite to prosecution. The state is
looking at how the companies have represented viability and
profitability to investors, which include New York state pension
funds.  Lauren Passalacqua, a spokeswoman for Schneiderman,
declined comment on the subpoenas. The subpoenas were previously
reported by the New York Times.  Schneiderman said in a lawsuit filed in federal court in
May that the Delaware River Basin Commission has proposed
regulations that will allow fracking at 15,000 to 18,000 gas
wells without a full environmental review, affecting the
drinking water of 9 million New Yorkers.  Delaware River Basin  The Delaware River Basin covers 58 percent of the land area
of  New York City ’s watershed west of the Hudson River, according
to Schneiderman. The region targeted for exploration is
protected by a 50-year-old agreement among the U.S. government,
New York,  New Jersey  and Delaware.  The Delaware River Basin Commission, an authority which
oversees activities in the gas-rich area known as the Marcellus
Shale, has a pending application from XTO Energy Inc., a unit of
 Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , to explore in the area, and has refused to
produce a full environmental impact assessment, according to
Schneiderman’s complaint.  The lawsuit might shut down gas development in the Delaware
River Basin “for many years to come,” according to court
papers filed by trade groups representing oil and gas companies
that hold  natural gas  leases in New York.  The Marcellus Shale, which lies beneath parts of New York,
Pennsylvania, Ohio,  Maryland , West  Virginia  and Virginia, has an
estimated 400 trillion cubic feet of natural gas, one of the
largest such formations in the world, the trade associations
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Freifeld in New York at   kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 