-- 
Google Given Chance to Settle Belgian Case Over Street View

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-08-18T09:25:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/google-given-chance-to-settle-belgian-case-over-street-view.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  was offered the chance
to pay Belgian authorities a penalty of 150,000 euros ($215,700)
to settle a data-privacy case concerning the collection of
wireless Internet data through its Street View service.  Belgium ’s federal prosecutor today said Google breached a
national law by illegally intercepting communication when it
collected private data with its Street View cars. The owner of
the most popular search engine has three months to accept the
Aug. 12 proposal or the case may be taken to court, which has
the power to impose higher fines and a prison sentence.  “We have received an offer of extra-judicial settlement
from the Belgian federal prosecutor and we have to study it
carefully,” Anthony House, a London-based spokesman for Google,
said by telephone.  Google has been targeted by data-protection agencies across
the European Union for its Street View program, which lets users
click on maps to see photographs of roadsides. It was fined
100,000 euros in  France  for violating the country’s privacy
rules. The Dutch data protection agency last week said it may
fine Google as much as 750,000 euros if the company doesn’t
comply with its demands. The U.K. privacy watchdog said on Aug.
16 that the  Mountain View , California-based company has taken
“reasonable steps” to improve its privacy policies following a
U.K. audit.  “We are profoundly sorry to have mistakenly collected
payload data from unencrypted WiFi networks,” House said. “As
soon as we realized what had happened we stopped collecting all
WiFi data from our Street View cars and immediately informed the
authorities.”  Belgian data protection regulators concluded earlier this
year that Google had committed “flagrant violations of privacy
law” by collecting and storing wireless Internet addresses and
traffic between computers and WiFi hotspots. The agency, which
doesn’t have the power to impose fines on Google, passed the
file to the federal prosecutors in January.  The proposed settlement was reported earlier in  De
Standaard .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  