-- 
Liberty Invests in Barnes & Noble After Ending Takeover Bid

-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 
2011-08-19T20:21:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/liberty-invests-in-barnes-noble-and-drops-purchase-bid-1-.html
Liberty Media Corp., controlled by
billionaire  John Malone , invested $204 million in  Barnes & Noble
Inc. (BKS)  after dropping its offer to acquire the largest U.S.
bookstore chain.  Liberty Media agreed to purchase preferred shares,
convertible into 12 million common shares or 17 percent of the
company’s stock, at $17 a share, Barnes & Noble said yesterday
in a statement. The preferred shares will pay a 7.8 percent
annual dividend. Liberty Media, based in Englewood,  Colorado ,
made the only public bid when it offered $17 a share in May for
70 percent of the retailer, valuing the chain at $1 billion.  Barnes & Noble hired Lazard Ltd. in August 2010 to pursue a
possible sale after three straight years of profit declines amid
increasing competition from discount retailers such as  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)  and digital books. The move followed a public
dispute with  Ron Burkle , the company’s second-largest
shareholder, who pushed for changes.  Liberty’s investment allows Barnes & Noble to spend more on
its Nook e-readers to keep up with competitors and gives Malone
exposure to a changing industry, Bill Kavaler, a New York-based
analyst at Oscar Gruss & Son Inc., said in an interview.  “John Malone likes to buy low-cost calls on interesting
potential and ideas and Barnes & Noble is interesting as the
only national book chain that’s standing,” Kavaler said. “For
$200 million, he’s got a shot at seeing what happens.”  Digital Reader  Barnes & Noble, based in  New York , fell $2.11, or 17
percent, to $9.98 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. That marked the largest one-day drop since June 29,
2010. Liberty Capital, the tracking-stock group where Barnes &
Noble would have been placed, declined $1.98, or 2.9 percent, to
$65.67 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  Liberty Media Chief Executive Officer Gregory Maffei and
Mark Carleton, a senior vice president, will join the board of
Barnes & Noble, according to the statement.  Their appointments “are positive steps towards better
governance,” Burkle, founder of Los Angeles-based investment
firm Yucaipa Cos., said yesterday in a statement. Yucaipa lost a
proxy contest a year ago to replace three Barnes & Noble board
members, including founder  Leonard Riggio , with a slate led by
Burkle after losing a lawsuit to overturn a poison pill anti-
takeover defense that capped its stock ownership at 20 percent.  Net Losses  The bookseller plans to continue investing in the Nook and
selling e-books as more consumers shift away from printed books.
Those investments have come at the expense of profits as the
retailer posted a net loss in four of the past five quarters.  While revenue at Barnes & Noble’s online unit surged 50
percent to $858.1 million in fiscal 2011, its more than 700
retail locations have posted one gain in sales at stores open at
least a year in the past 14 quarters.  So-called same-store sales dropped 2.9 percent in the
fourth quarter, hurt by bankruptcy liquidation sales at Borders
Group Inc. in the period.  Ann Arbor , Michigan-based Borders
filed for bankruptcy in February. Barnes & Noble posted a net
loss of $73.9 million, or $1.31 a share, in the fiscal year
ended April 30.  Liberty Media holds stakes in the Starz Group media
business,  Sirius XM Radio Inc. (SIRI)  and HSN Inc., the home-shopping
retailer.  Barnes & Noble Chairman Riggio founded the company in 1965
with a college bookstore in  Manhattan . Six years later, he
bought the Barnes & Noble name and its flagship store, beginning
a spree of acquisitions, including Doubleday Bookshops. The
chain started focusing on superstores, instead of mall sites, in
the 1990s, and now has more than 700.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at   korland@bloomberg.net . 