-- 
Tibetan Exile Leader Says Nepal Curbs Refugees at China’s Behest

-- B y   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 
2011-08-18T18:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/tibetan-exile-leader-says-nepal-curbs-refugees-at-china-s-behest.html
The Himalayan nation of Nepal is
tightening restrictions against an estimated 20,000 Tibetan
refugees because of pressure from  China , the new prime minister
of the Tibetan exile administration said.  On Tibetan issues, “Nepal has become almost a satellite
state of China,” Lobsang Sangay, who last week took over
political leadership of the Tibetan exile movement from the
Dalai Lama,  Tibet ’s Buddhist spiritual leader, said in an
interview Aug. 17 in New Delhi.  Nepal’s border with Tibet, which includes Mt. Everest, the
world’s highest peak, has been a primary escape route for many
of the Tibetans who have fled Chinese rule to form an exile
community of about 130,000 people. Since 2008, China has cracked
down on Tibetans’ protests in their homeland and tightened its
border to prevent refugees from escaping.  Nepal’s caretaker prime minister, Jahala Nath Khanal, Aug.
17 told a visiting Chinese official that Nepal will permit no
“anti-China activities” on its territory, an aide in his
office said. Zhou Yongkang, who oversees Chinese security forces
as a member of the Communist Party’s ruling Politburo Standing
Committee, expressed to Khanal “the hope that Nepal would
continue to prevent Tibetan separatists from using Nepalese soil
to act against China,” the official Xinhua news agency reported.  Zhou, who headed one of the most prominent Chinese
government delegations to Nepal in many years, offered Nepal $47
million in grants and loans for development projects and police
equipment, according to statements on Nepal’s Finance Ministry
Website.  Lama Detained  “Nepal is committed to a one-China policy, it is our
freely determined policy, and we will not permit any activities
in violation” of it, said Khanal’s administrative
undersecretary, J.P. Adhikari. The policy “quite obviously”
requires some limits on Tibetans in Nepal, he said by phone.  Nepal has refused visas for teachers and health workers
that the exile administration tries to send for refugees, Sangay
said. Nepalese police this month detained Thinley Lama, the
 Dalai Lama ’s representative in the country, and Sangay, 43, said
they issued him a warning against public activities in support
of the Tibetan campaign for autonomy.  Nepal’s approach began to change in 2008, after its Maoist
political movement and other parties ousted the country’s 240-
year-old monarchy. That coincided with Tibet’s most violent
anti-Chinese protests in 20 years, in which police gunfire
killed 120 people, according to the  Tibetan Center for Human
Rights and Democracy  at the Dalai Lama’s exile headquarters in
Dharamsala,  India . China, which has barred journalists and other
foreigners from access to Tibet, says 18 people were killed by
rioters.  Birthday Arrests  Nepal’s police now help Chinese authorities prevent
Tibetans from fleeing across the 1,400-kilometer (870-mile)
border between Nepal and Tibet, reducing the flow of Tibetan
refugees into Nepal from more than 2,000 per year before 2008 to
770 last year, according to the Tibetan human rights center.  Human rights monitors such as  Amnesty International  and the
U.S. State Department’s most recent human rights reports have
criticized Nepal for arresting Tibetans who have tried to
publicly celebrate the Dalai Lama’s birthday, and for seizing
ballot boxes to prevent Tibetans from voting in the October
election won by Sangay.  Nepal refuses refugee status to any newly arriving Tibetans
and has committed to let them transit the country to India,
according to the United Nations refugee agency, UNHCR. Still,
Nepal has forcibly returned some refugees to China and Chinese
police have entered Nepal to search for fleeing Tibetans, the
State Department’s  2010 human rights report  said.  ‘Splittist’  Since 2008, China has cracked down on Tibetans’ protests
against Chinese rule in the territory. The Dalai Lama fled
during one such demonstration in 1959 and demands political
autonomy for Tibet as a way to end what he says is China’s
suppression of Tibetan culture and exploitation of its economy.  Anti-Chinese protests have continued at Buddhist
monasteries in Tibetan regions of China in recent weeks, Sangay
said. A second Buddhist monk in five months who immolated
himself to demand the Dalai Lama’s return to Tibet was cremated
Aug. 17, China’s official Xinhua news agency reported.  The U.S. government renewed a call for China to negotiate a
political solution to Tibetans’ demands as President  Barack Obama  met the Dalai Lama at the White House July 17.  China says the Dalai Lama is a “splittist,” secretly
seeking independence for Tibetan regions, which form as much as
a quarter of China’s territory.  Harvard Law  China has dismissed the election of Sangay to head the
Dalai Lama’s exile administration and says he will have no role
in any continuation of the negotiations that China periodically
has held with the Dalai Lama’s envoys.  While “it is too early to say” when any further talks
with China may be possible, “under our constitution, I will
have to appoint the Dalai Lama’s envoys” for such meetings,
Sangay said.  Sangay is a former Harvard University law scholar who was
elected the first secular leader of the Tibetans living in exile.
The Dalai Lama, the 14th in a line of ruling clerics, has led
the shift to an elected secular government of the exile
community in part to maintain continuity that historically has
been interrupted whenever a Dalai Lama died.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rupert in  New Delhi  at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  