-- 
IBM Chip ‘Senses’ Events to React Like Brain

-- B y   O l i v e r   R e n i c k
-- 
2011-08-18T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/ibm-chip-senses-events-to-react-in-ways-that-mimic-human-brain.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM)  has developed a computer chip inspired by the human brain
that may predict tsunamis and highlight risks in financial markets.  The technology, called cognitive computing, is programmed
to recognize patterns, make predictions and learn from mistakes,
human-like capabilities not possible using today’s best
computers. It’s a sharp departure from traditional chip design
concepts, IBM said in a statement today.  Systems built with the new chip can synthesize events
currently occurring and make decisions in real time, the Armonk,
New York-based company said. Sponsored by the  U.S. Department of
Defense , IBM has received $21 million more in funding after
today’s developments to bring the technology to applications.
The advancement marks the end of a conceptual phase and
initiates the first step to find out how to bring the chips to
scale for production, said Kelly Sims, an IBM spokeswoman.  “We’re inventing a new system, changing the game,”
Dharmendra Modha, the project’s leader, said in an interview.
“It’s a new generation of computers, bypassing the hurdles
faced by today’s computers.”  While current computers handle commands individually on a
linear if/then basis, Modha said machines equipped with the new
chips will “rewire themselves on the fly.” Without any set
programming, the devices reach decisions through integrated
memory, computation and communication cores that resemble
synapses, neurons and axons, respectively, in the brain’s
nervous system. The sensor network is three times larger than
any ever created, he said.  Reacting to Surroundings  Cognitive computers may react to taste, touch, smells and
sound, Modha said, while consuming less power and volume than
today’s technology.  The core of the device has 3.8 million transistors in a 4.2
millimeters square of silicon, a tiny scale for what the chip
accomplishes, said  Richard Doherty , research director at
Seaford, New York-based Envisioneering Group, a technology
assessment firm.  “Research like this has been going on for decades, but
this marks the beginning of commerce, industry and profits for
 cognitive computing ,” Doherty said in an interview. “They’re
going to be more like humans and primates than ever before.”  Current chips using 2 billion transistors couldn’t perform
similar tasks, he said, and they’d have to be 10 times as large.  “We’re giving birth to a new type of architecture-enabling
applications to ask computers to help us with today,” Modha
said.  Potential Uses  Some of that help may come, for example, in the form of
predicting tsunamis or creating financial opportunities, he
said. By constantly recording and reporting temperature,
pressure, wave height and ocean tides, such a system could issue
a warning for giant waves based on its decision making.  “In a financial sense, it would be looking not for micro
opportunities, but a macro pattern that spots anomalies, risks,
and creates new possibilities,” he said.  The technology also might be used in a doctor’s glove,
providing real-time patient data during surgery based on the
body’s texture, smell and temperature.  “The impact of this is inevitable, but the timing is
unpredictable,” Modha said. “As a civilization we’re computing
with half a brain, and now we’re bringing forth that other half
to complement it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Renick in New York at 
 orenick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  