-- 
Libya Rebels Battle for Zawiya Oil Refinery, Push to Cut Off Tripoli Road

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   C h r i s   S t e p h e n
-- 
2011-08-18T16:27:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/libya-rebels-battle-for-zawiya-oil-refinery-push-to-cut-tripoli-highway.html
Libyan rebels are battling forces
loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi  for control of the Zawiya oil refinery
and say they are advancing from the city of Misrata south toward
a strategic highway linked with Tripoli, the capital.  “Since the morning, there has been fighting as the tyrant
tries to regain control of the refinery and we are trying to
drive his forces out,” Colonel Ahmed Bani, the rebels’ defense
spokesman, said today by phone. “Three-quarters of the refinery
is under our control, and the remaining quarter still has
pockets of resistance from the tyrant’s forces.”  Rebels and Qaddafi forces are fighting in the industrial
area in the oil town of Brega, 300 miles (480 kilometers) east
of Tripoli, Bani said. In the western mountains, rebels have
taken the city of Gherian and clashes continue around Ajeelat,
west of Tripoli, according to Bani.  There was no independent confirmation of the advances,
which come after several weeks of stalemate in the sixth month
of the conflict. Qaddafi, who seized power in the oil-rich North
African nation in a military coup in 1969, controls Tripoli and
has told his followers to keep fighting against rebels backed by
North Atlantic Treaty Organization airstrikes.  The flow of oil from the Zawiya refinery to the capital 35
miles away has been shut down, Bani said.  “What matters to us is that the refinery is not working
anymore,” he said. “We don’t want fuel to reach the tyrant and
the Tripoli government.”  Shelling Zawiya  Zawiya has a refining capacity of 120,000 barrels of oil a
day, almost a third of  Libya ’s total. The nation’s biggest
refinery, Ras Lanuf, which can produce 220,000 barrels a day,
has stopped operating because of the fighting.  While Qaddafi forces have been shelling Zawiya “it’s
impossible for them to enter the city or to regain control,”
Bani said. Many women, children and elderly people have been
fleeing Zawiya in recent days, he added.  NATO warplanes destroyed armed vehicles that Qaddafi forces
were using in the battle for the oil refinery on the coast, the
U.K. Ministry of Defence spokesman, Major General Nick Pope,
said today in an e-mailed statement. U.K. fighter jets sank a
tugboat that the government fighters were attempting to redeploy
to a new position, he said.  In the south, rebels took the town of Murziq after “a
fierce battle” with Qaddafi forces yesterday that left one
rebel fighter dead, Bani said.  “The most important thing is Tripoli,” he said. “We are
all eager to finish off and topple the regime before the end of
Ramadan,” he said, referring to the Muslim fasting month, which
began in Libya on Aug. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Stephen in Misrata through the Dubai newsroom at 
   barden@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 