-- 
Forest Wins Board Battle Against Icahn as Investors Rally

-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 
2011-08-18T20:09:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/icahn-board-nominee-denner-says-early-results-indicate-forest-labs-victory.html
Forest Laboratories Inc. (FRX)  won the
support of shareholders today against billionaire investor  Carl Icahn ’s attempt to restructure the drugmaker’s board.  Shareholders elected the company’s entire slate of board
candidates “by a significant margin” based on preliminary
estimates at its annual meeting in New York today, Forest said
in a statement. Forest’s 10-member slate includes three new
directors.  Icahn is Forest’s second-biggest investor, with 9.2 percent
of the stock, and had nominated four directors to the board.
Icahn argued during the proxy fight that Forest’s average board
tenure of 23 years was too long and cited a stock decline of
more than 50 percent from the drugmaker’s 2004 high of $77.59.  “Congratulations on your victory!” Icahn said in a
separate statement. “I look forward to our next meeting.”  Icahn also said that “activism, especially in bio-tech,
usually takes longer than you believe it will.”  Icahn cited experience at ImClone Systems Inc., Genzyme
Corp. and  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB)  as recent examples. Icahn was
involved with the sales of ImClone to  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  in 2008
for $6.5 billion and Genzyme to Sanofi in February for $20.1
billion. At Biogen, Icahn gained three seats on the board after
a three-year battle, oversaw the appointment of Chief Executive
Officer George Scangos and helped narrow the company’s research.  Still Interested  Icahn is still interested in holding a stake in  New York- 
based Forest, Alex Denner, senior managing director of  Icahn
Enterprises LP (IEP) , said at the beginning of today’s meeting. Denner
was one of the nominees.  Forest, in letters to shareholders over the last month,
said the company has outperformed the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index, developed a diversified set of experimental medicines and
has leadership “focused on continuing to build sustainable
momentum and value for all shareholders.”  The company’s best-seller, the antidepressant Lexapro, will
lose its patent protection next year. Forest also makes
Alzheimer’s medicine Namenda.  Proxy adviser Institutional Shareholder Services, owned by
MSCI Inc., last week recommended investors vote for Forest’s
slate, writing in a report that Icahn’s case wasn’t compelling
enough for change at the board level.  “Once ISS recommended for the company, we knew it was a
real uphill battle,” Denner said in an interview after the
meeting. “We do believe the company has made some positive
governance changes because of our involvement.”  Denner was the first audience speaker at today’s meeting,
congratulating Forest on its win and saying the Icahn group
still has “things we’d like to see” change.  Forest Chief Executive Officer Howard Solomon responded
that the company would “be in touch to set up a meeting.”  Forest fell $1.27, or 3.7 percent, to $33.18 at 4 p.m. in
 New York  Stock Exchange composite trading, while the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index declined 4.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale in New York at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  