-- 
Hidden Money From Hong Kong Banks Undermining Lending Curbs: China Credit

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-19T04:22:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/hidden-money-from-hong-kong-banks-undermining-lending-curbs-china-credit.html
Chinese companies are borrowing
record amounts from  Hong Kong ’s banks as the central government
tries to bring the inflation rate down from a three-year high by
reducing access to credit.  Financial institutions’ claims on mainland companies rose
four-fold to 1.6 trillion yuan ($250 billion) between mid-2009
and the end of May, Hong Kong Monetary Authority data show. They
will provide another 700 billion yuan to 1 trillion yuan of
loans to mainland firms in the second half of 2011, according to
 Fitch Ratings . The money isn’t included in the central bank’s
estimate of  total lending in the economy . China’s loans fell to
their lowest level in a year in July.  Chinese policy makers have introduced loan quotas and
higher  reserve requirements  in their bid to curb inflation,
which quickened to 6.5 percent in July, compared with 3.6
percent in the U.S. and 2.5 percent in the euro region. While
All-China Federation of Industry & Commerce said in June that
smaller businesses are more short on cash than during the 2008
financial crisis, companies that have access to international
financing are still able to get the money through banks.  “If you borrow in Hong Kong it’s a hell of a lot cheaper
than in the mainland,” Jim Antos, a banking analyst at Mizuho
Securities  Asia , said in a telephone interview from Hong Kong on
Aug. 10. “The money is easily repatriated or sent to  China .”  Slowing Growth  Taiyuan Iron & Steel Group Co. said in an April bond
prospectus that its average yuan borrowing rate is 10 percent
below China’s benchmark lending rate. The one-year lending rate
is at 6.56 percent. The company can borrow funds in foreign
currencies for about 200 basis points, or 2 percentage points,
more than the London interbank offered rate, according to the
prospectus. Libor for three months was at 0.298 percent
yesterday.  Morgan Stanley and Deutsche Bank AG cut their estimates for
China’s economic growth to less than 9 percent this year, as the
debt burdens of developed nations threaten demand for exports.
The government is also trying to battle the effects of a credit
boom that has seen local governments borrow 10.7 trillion yuan,
and lending from Hong Kong banks could hinder those efforts.  China’s preference for loan quotas and administrative
controls is “becoming increasingly ineffective,” Charlene Chu,
a senior director at Fitch in Beijing, said in a telephone
interview on Aug. 17. “There are more and more ways around the
rules and this is another example of a new channel that’s opened
up.”  ‘Unsustainable’ Credit Growth  New loans in Hong Kong grew by HK$940 billion ($121 billion)
last year, up 29 percent from the year before, according to an
April 11 letter from  Norman Chan , the chief executive of the
Hong Kong Monetary Authority. A total of HK$440 billion was lent
to mainland non-bank customers, an increase of 47 percent. In
comparison, property lending in Hong Kong rose 19 percent, Chan
wrote.  Most of the mainland borrowers were state-owned enterprises
or “companies owned by provincial or municipal governments,”
he said in the  letter . Sixty-percent of the lending was either
fully collateralized by  bank deposits  on the mainland or backed
by guarantees by major mainland lenders.  “It is clear that the same rapid pace of credit growth is
unsustainable,” Chan wrote.  China will allow Hong Kong companies to invest in the
country using yuan raised in the city, Vice Premier  Li Keqiang 
said at a televised seminar on Aug. 17.  Interbank Assets  Foreign direct investment into China rose 19.8 percent in
July to $8.3 billion from a year earlier, the Commerce Ministry
said on Aug. 16.  Of Hong Kong banks’ liabilities on the mainland, a total of
74 percent are recorded as claims on mainland Chinese banks and
included in Hong Kong banks’ interbank portfolio not their loan
holdings, Fitch said. This is because most of these are loans to
Chinese companies and the borrower often has a guarantee or
letter of credit from a mainland bank, Fitch’s Chu said.  Hong Kong banks’ claims on Chinese lenders accounted for 17
percent of their total interbank assets by the end of March, up
from 5 percent in mid-2009, according to Fitch. Exposure to
mainland China now amounts to about 20 percent of Hong Kong bank
assets, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc said in a June 22
research note.  Wing Lung Bank Ltd., which was bought by China Merchants
Bank Co. in 2008, said in its  2010 annual report  that the
company had lent HK$3.37 billion to companies that had made a
deposit in the mainland and borrowed in Hong Kong.  Regulation Limited  Bank of China Ltd. said on May 19, it had signed a 5
billion-yuan financing agreement with Zhejiang Hengyi Group Co.,
a maker of chemicals, which included depositing in yuan and
borrowing offshore, according to a notice on its  website .  “This isn’t just interbank lending, a lot of these deals
are loans to Chinese companies. They just have a guarantee of
some sort behind them and the Hong Kong banks are saying the
ultimate risk is to a mainland bank, not to a mainland
corporate,” Chu said. “The true ability of the regulators to
impact this non-loan based flow of finance is very limited.”  Chinese corporate bond costs are rising at the fastest pace
this year, reaching a record on Aug. 15 compared with  interest
rates  on government debt. The spread between top-rated 10-year
corporate bonds and similar-maturity  government bonds  rose to a
record 198 basis points on Aug. 15. China’s 10-year domestic
bonds yielded 3.96 percent on Aug 18.  Providing Guarantees  China’s yuan is headed for a weekly decline on concern the
global economic recovery is faltering. The yuan dropped 0.1
percent to 6.3964 per dollar this week, according to the China
Foreign Exchange Trade System. The currency slid 0.14 percent
today, the most since May 23 after reaching 6.3820 on Aug. 16,
the highest level since the country unified official and market
exchange rates at the end of 1993.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards dropped 0.46 percent
in the past five days to 6.2995 in Hong Kong, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. They fell 0.2 percent today, reflecting a
1.6 percent premium to the onshore spot rate.  Gree Electric Appliances Inc., a manufacturer of air
conditioners in Zhuhai in southern China, said in  March  that
domestic banks have started to provide guarantees to Chinese
companies’ overseas subsidiaries which they can use to apply for
financing from offshore banks. “Domestic companies can use yuan
deposits as a counter-guarantee,” it said.  Five-year credit-default swaps for China’s debt touched 116
basis points on Aug. 11, the highest level since May 2009,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. Contracts on China’s debt rose nine basis
points to 112 basis points yesterday, CMA data show.  Lending Practices  It is unclear how much of the money raised in Hong Kong by
Chinese companies is returning to China,  Mike Werner , an analyst
at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in Hong Kong said yesterday.  “What this does call into question is the lending
practices of the Hong Kong banks, because we don’t have a good
idea how well collateralized some of these loans are,” Werner
said in a phone interview. “If what they’re doing is receiving
collateral or pledges in mainland China and extending credit in
Hong Kong the questions is in a default event what the recovery
rate is going to be.”  -- Henry Sanderson . Editors:  Shelley Smith ,  James Regan   To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  