-- 
Higher Business Taxes May Follow Treasury’s Definition of Small

-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 
2011-08-18T04:01:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/higher-business-taxes-may-follow-treasury-s-definition-of-small.html
A new definition of what constitutes
a small business being considered  by the Treasury Department  is
raising concerns among some closely held companies that it’s a
step toward requiring them to pay corporate taxes.  The proposed definition, included in an Aug. 9 Treasury
report, places the upper limit for a small business at $10
million in annual gross income or deductions. Currently, there
is no size limit on what constitutes a small business for
purposes of tax policy discussions.  The parameters could affect larger, closely held
businesses, including those organized as partnerships, S
corporations and limited liability companies. Such firms are
called flow-through entities because profits flow directly to
their owners, who pay personal income tax without first being
subject to corporate tax. Large investment firms, including D.E.
Shaw LP of  New York  and Renaissance Technologies Corp. of East
Setauket, New York, and major law firms such as Los Angeles-
based Latham & Watkins LLP are organized as flow-through
companies.  The announcement of the proposed definition, coming as
congressional lawmakers consider rewriting the U.S. tax code,
heightens concerns of larger flow-through businesses that they
are being targeted for a tax increase, said Brian Reardon, a
lobbyist for the  S Corporation Association of America , which
advocates on behalf of family- and closely held businesses.  “The administration has made it clear that it’s interested
in drawing an arbitrary line and taxing firms above it,”
Reardon told Bloomberg Government.  Corporate Taxation  Reardon said his members were concerned earlier this year
that Treasury was developing a proposal that would levy
corporate taxes on flow-through businesses with more than $50
million in annual revenue as part of an effort to lower U.S.
corporate tax rates by broadening the base.  “It’s obviously something that they’ve been looking at,”
Reardon said.  The proposed definition is designed for tax policy
discussion and has no effect on government contracting or other
government agencies with their own definitions of small
businesses.  A Treasury official familiar with the crafting of the
definition said that it isn’t intended to lead to a tax increase
and is an attempt to address a widely acknowledged information
gap resulting from difficulty matching tax returns of flow-
through businesses with their owners’ returns.  ‘Big Step Forward’  As a result of the difficulty matching returns, taxpayers
reporting flow-through income typically have been counted as
small business owners, even if they are large companies.  “This is a really big step forward,” said Edward Kleinbard, a former staff director of the  Joint Committee on
Taxation , who is now a law professor at the University of
 Southern California . “Before this, you had the largest law firms
in America, with revenues over $1 billion, and they were being
treated as small businesses. That’s just preposterous on its
face,”  More than 90 percent of businesses are structured as flow-
through entities and their owners pay about 43 percent of all
U.S. business taxes on their individual tax returns, according
to a  study  by Robert Carroll, a former Treasury official, for
the S Corporation trade group.  Reardon said subjecting flow-through profits to corporate
taxes would amount to double taxation because owners of such
companies already pay personal income tax on their earnings.  Small Business Cutoff  Using $10 million as the cutoff for a small business is
arbitrary, though it does have some basis in tax administration,
according to the Treasury official. For example, the  Internal
Revenue Service  uses $10 million in assets as the administrative
dividing line between large and small businesses.  Under the proposed definition, there would be significantly
fewer small businesses and fewer owners of such businesses would
be included in top income brackets.  Democrats could use the proposed definition to argue for
tax increases, said Payson Peabody, a former tax counsel to
former Republican Senator Jim Bunning.  “In the short term, this report is aimed at Republicans
in Congress who say that raising top rates would impact small
business,” said Peabody, who represents the  Angel Capital
Association , a trade group of private early-stage investors.
“The White House always has said the impact on small business
would be smaller, and, by narrowing the definition of small
business, this report attempts to back that claim,”  Using the proposed definition, 20 million small business
owners reported $376 billion in net business income for 2007,
according to a Treasury analysis of returns that year.  Under a second, narrower definition in which profit or loss
from a business represented at least 25 percent of a filer’s
income, researchers estimated there were 9.4 million small
business owners with $335 billion in reported income for 2007.  The previous methodology counted 34.7 million filers
reporting $662 billion in income in 2007.  Under the new definitions, the share of small-business
income subject to the top two tax rates dropped to 32 percent
under the broad definition and to 29 percent under the narrower
one. By comparison, under the previous methodology, 50 percent
of small- business income was taxed at the top two rates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  