-- 
ILFC Fails to Sway Bond Market as Standalone: Corporate Finance

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-08-18T15:18:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/ilfc-fails-to-sway-bond-market-on-standalone-prospects-corporate-finance.html
International Lease Finance Corp.’s
debt reductions and maturity extensions are failing to convince
investors the plane-leasing unit of  American International Group
Inc. (AIG)  should stand on its own in a worsening global economy.  Credit-default swaps on ILFC have more than doubled since
May 19, even as  Standard & Poor’s  raised its senior unsecured
debt rating to BBB-, the lowest investment grade. The company’s
bonds have lost 5.02 percent this month, compared with 3.53
percent for all high-yield debt, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data.  ILFC is being punished in the bond market as airlines come
under pressure from rising fuel prices and deteriorating
economic growth prospects. The Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index has
fallen 22 percent since the start of July and jet-fuel costs
reached a two-week high in New York yesterday. A spinoff or
initial public offering of ILFC would leave the Los Angeles-
based company more vulnerable to market volatility, according to
DoubleLine Capital LP’s Bonnie Baha.  “They’ve turned around their financial situation only to
head into another downturn from a global growth perspective,
which is unfortunate,” said Baha, head of global developed
credit in  Los Angeles  for the  DoubleLine Core Fixed Income Fund (DBLFX) ,
which has performed better than 99 percent of its peers this
year. “While ILFC is in a good position to fly on its own,
without a backstop from AIG and more importantly from the
government, it’s a little bit unnerving to the market.”  Implied B2  Credit-default swaps on the company climbed this month as
global stocks tumbled and speculative-grade debt issuance all
but evaporated. The cost reached as high as 663 basis points on
Aug. 11, according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market. The contracts have held at prices that imply ILFC’s debt
should be rated B2, according to Moody’s Corp.’s capital markets
group.  “Widening of spreads are not ILFC-specific but simply
reflect trends in the broader markets,” said Mark Herr, a
spokesman for AIG, in an e-mail. “Moreover, ILFC’s new funding
and liquidity strategy implemented since early 2010 makes it
less vulnerable to market volatility than ever before.”  ILFC has cut outstanding debt by almost 20 percent to $25.8
billion over the year through June 30. It sold five-year notes
after the upgrade at a 5.75 percent yield, 2.88 percentage
points less than similar-maturity debt issued in 2010, after
being shut out of the  bond market  in 2009.  The unit’s ratio of debt to trailing 12 months earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization fell to
5.33 at the end of the first quarter from 7.85 at the end of the
third quarter of 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Improved Liquidity  New York-based S&P boosted ILFC’s senior unsecured debt
grade one level on May 19 to BBB- from BB+ and affirmed its BBB-
corporate credit rating, saying it had “significantly
improved” liquidity and could meet its 2011 and 2012 maturities
and fund capital expenditures. S&P cut its credit grade from A-
in January 2009 as the worst recession since the Great
Depression slowed demand for planes.  ILFC said in an Aug. 11 regulatory filing that AIG may sell
it, float it in an initial public offering or spin the business
off. A partial IPO may raise $2 billion, according to a person
familiar with the plans, who declined to be identified last
month because discussions are private.  Debt Financing  The plane lessor, which relies on debt financing to
purchase aircraft, was unable to sell bonds after AIG’s losses
on mortgage bets squeezed liquidity at the entire company and
led to downgrades. After being bailed out by the U.S., which now
owns a 77 percent stake, AIG said it would back the leasing unit
if secured financing, aircraft sales and other funds didn’t meet
its need for liquidity.  That support was suspended as ILFC regained access to
outside funding. The unit sold $2.25 billion of notes in a two-
part offering in May after S&P’s upgrade and used the proceeds
to retire higher-yielding debt.  ILFC is being affected in part by a repricing of risk
across the finance industry, said  Kathleen Shanley , a Gimme
Credit LLC senior bond analyst in  Chicago . Financial companies
are sensitive to market conditions, in particular if they are
lower-rated or have to turn to the debt markets often; both
conditions apply to ILFC, she said.  ‘That’s Negative’  “It doesn’t necessarily have anything to do with
fundamentals inside of ILFC,” Shanley said in a telephone
interview. “Because ILFC over time will need to keep going back
to the market to obtain financing, if financing becomes more
expensive, that’s negative to them as it is with other
companies.”  Financial debt is suffering its worst month since November,
declining 0.8 percent through yesterday, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data show, as investors flee borrowers facing more
risk from a weakening economy and  Europe ’s spreading debt
crisis. The cost of protecting debt of the six biggest U.S.
banks reached the highest in more than two years last week.  “There can be some credit impairment if we have this
global slow growth environment,” DoubleLine’s Baha said. “It
all hinges on whether or not there is a friendly environment for
accessing capital.”  An IPO would be positive for bondholders “since it reduces
the potential risk of a private equity type of transaction in
the minds of some market participants,” said Miguel Crivelli, a
credit analyst at Barclays Plc in  New York , in a note to clients
on Aug. 16.  Moody’s Rating  Moody’s Investors Service rates ILFC’s senior unsecured
debt B1 and changed its outlook to positive in May as ILFC
builds “a capital cushion to absorb potential asset-quality and
performance weakness,” the New York-based ratings company said.  The rating stripped out a one-level boost based on the
assumption of AIG’s support, according to the Moody’s note.  “Because ILFC has strengthened its stand alone credit
profile, the B1 rating no longer relies on an assumption of AIG
support,” Moody’s analysts Mark Wasden and  Robert Young  wrote
in a note dated May 12.  Credit-default swaps tied to ILFC’s debt, which typically
fall as investor confidence improves, are down from a record
1,710 basis points in March 2009, according to CMA. They eased
from 809 basis points in June 2010 after it sold assets and took
advantage of record-low borrowing costs to refinance debt coming
due by 2012. The swaps climbed 22.5 basis points today to 632
basis points as of 9:52 a.m. in New York, CMA data show.  The contracts pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point is $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Diversify Earnings  Maurice “Hank” Greenberg, who built AIG into the world’s
largest insurer in his four decades leading the firm, bought
ILFC in 1990 to diversify earnings. AIG has less need for the
unit now that it has been stripped of its top  credit rating  and
has shrunk through asset sales to repay its government bailout,
said Cliff Gallant, an analyst at KBW Inc.  “Back when AIG was triple-A, ILFC made a lot of sense,”
he said. “They had a competitive advantage in terms of cost of
borrowing and so they could earn a higher margin on the exact
same business as everyone else. They’ve lost that edge and AIG
is not going to be triple-A for some time now.”  AIG is rated Baa1 at Moody’s, and A- at S&P.  Selling Parts  ILFC contributed $86 million in second-quarter operating
profit to AIG, the insurer said this month, down 53 percent from
a year earlier, as it took an impairment charge on planes it
planned to sell or retire from its fleet. Also this month, the
company agreed to buy AerCap Holdings NV’s AeroTurbine unit,
which disassemblies used planes to sell the parts as spares. The
$228 million acquisition will allow ILFC to make money parting
out its oldest aircraft, said Henri Courpron, ILFC’s CEO.  U.S. airlines may cut back further on flying as the slowing
economy hampers their ability to boost fares. At the same time,
carriers are struggling with an average jet-fuel price this year
through Aug. 15 that’s 47 percent higher than the similar period
of 2010.  Delta Air Lines Inc. and AMR Corp.’s  American Airlines  have
trimmed growth plans for the final quarter of this year, and
Southwest Airlines Co. doesn’t plan to increase flight capacity
in 2012.  “If we have a serious double-dip recession, that could
affect levels of air traffic and leasing rates and demand for
planes,” Shanley said. “It could affect the fundamentals on
the business side.”  ‘Vast Difference’  The  U.S. economy  grew in the first six months of 2011 at
the weakest pace since the recovery started in 2009. After
almost stalling at a 0.4 percent annual pace in the first three
months of this year, the economy expanded at a 1.3 percent rate
last quarter, the government reported on July 29. The pace is
“considerably slower” than expected, the  Federal Reserve  said
this month.  Volatile markets make accessing capital “more difficult,
but there’s a vast difference between September 2008 and the
choppiness we’re having now,” S&P analyst Christopher DeNicolo
said in a telephone interview.  “The market and other external things are going against
it, so the value is there in the long term, but will you get
that in the market today?” he said. “There not only has to be
the capital markets being conducive but also the aviation
markets, and those two don’t necessarily have to be going in the
same direction.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net 
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  