-- 
India’s RBI Panel Differed Over July Interest Rate Policy, Minutes Show

-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 
2011-08-18T18:31:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/india-s-central-bank-says-its-advisers-were-split-over-rate-action-in-july.html
A panel advising the  Reserve Bank of
India  differed over the extent to which policy makers should
raise  interest rates  last month, according to the minutes of the
meeting held six days before the July 26 decision.  Four of the 12 members suggested following a “wait and
watch policy,” while three were in favor of increasing the
benchmark repurchase rate by a quarter-percentage point and one
argued for a 25 basis-point boost to the cash reserve ratio, the
Mumbai-based central bank said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday without identifying the people.  Reserve Bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao raised the signaling
interest rate by half a percentage point on July 26 and
predicted inflation by the end of March will be 7 percent, a
percentage point higher than his previous guidance. Price gains
in  India  are the fastest among the so-called BRICS nations and
policy makers have raised borrowing costs by a total of 3.25
percentage points since mid-March 2010.  “The aggressive rate action last month suggests the
governor is very serious about getting control over inflation,”
said Jay Shankar, chief economist at Religare Capital Markets
Ltd. in Mumbai. “This reflects inflation is not going to come
down to the RBI’s comfort zone anytime soon.”  Wholesale prices, the key gauge of inflation in India, rose
9.22 percent in July from a year earlier, and the rate may be
“around 10 percent in August,” Kaushik Basu, the chief
economic adviser in the finance ministry, said Aug. 16. India’s
economic growth may slow to 8 percent in the year ending March
31, from an estimated 8.5 percent in the previous 12 months,
according to the central bank.  Stocks, Rupee  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index has slid almost
20 percent this year on concern monetary tightening and a
deepening debt crisis growth will crimp growth. The yield on 10-
year government bonds has dropped 21 basis points to 8.26
percent since touching a 34-month high on July 28, while the
rupee slumped 3.4 percent this month, the worst in  Asia .  “In view of global uncertainty and deceleration of
domestic economic activity, most members suggested that equal
weight be given to the objectives of fostering growth and
controlling inflation while formulating monetary policy,” the
central bank said.  Benchmark inflation, measured by consumer prices, is 6.9
percent in  Brazil , 9 percent in  Russia , 6.5 percent in  China  and
5 percent in  South Africa .  Inflation Expectations  Inflation expectations in India rose to 12.9 percent by the
end of June from a year ago compared with 12.7 percent earlier,
the central bank said in a report on Aug. 11, based on a survey
of 4,000 households. The price forecast for the three months
through September dropped to 11.8 percent from 11.9 percent in
the previous quarter, it said.  India’s Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said on Aug. 15
taming inflation in the South Asian nation would be his
coalition government’s “top-most” priority. Subbarao, who won
a two-year extension to his tenure on Aug. 9, said last week
that it’s “too early to say” whether there would be a change
in stance amid threats to economic growth posed by  Europe ’s debt
crisis and a faltering U.S. recovery.  Asian central banks from South Korea to Indonesia kept
borrowing costs unchanged last week because of a risk of a
global slowdown.  Morgan Stanley cut its forecast for global growth this year,
citing an “insufficient” policy response to Europe’s debt woes,
weakened confidence and the prospect of fiscal tightening. The
bank estimates expansion of 3.9 percent, down from a previous
forecast of 4.2 percent, according to an e-mailed report dated
yesterday. A prediction of 3.8 percent for next year is down
from 4.5 percent previously.  Reserve Bank  Deputy Governor  Subir Gokarn  said the global
economic situation is “pessimistic” now than it was a month
ago. He reiterated in Bangalore yesterday that India needs to
control inflation to sustain its growth momentum.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  