-- 
India’s Food Inflation Slows, Pressure for Higher Interest Rates Remains

-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 
2011-08-18T07:08:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/india-s-food-inflation-slows-pressure-for-higher-interest-rates-remains.html
India ’s food inflation slowed, an
easing that may be insufficient to prevent the central bank from
raising  interest rates  further.  An index measuring wholesale prices of farm products
including rice and wheat rose 9.03 percent in the week ended
Aug. 6 from a year earlier, the commerce ministry said in an e-
mailed statement today. It rose 9.9 percent the previous week.  Price gains in India are the fastest among the so-called
BRICS nations and policy makers have raised borrowing costs 11
times since mid-March 2010. Indian households expect inflation
to accelerate in the 12 months through June “mainly because of
the movements in food price,” the central bank said last week.  “Food prices are adding to overall inflation pressure,”
 Madan Sabnavis , chief economist at Credit Analysis & Research
Ltd., a Mumbai-based ratings company, said before the report. He
expects the  Reserve Bank  of India to boost its repurchase rate
by a quarter of a percentage point to 8.25 percent on Sept. 16.  India’s benchmark wholesale-price inflation was 9.22
percent in July, the commerce ministry said Aug. 16. By
comparison, consumer prices rose 6.9 percent in Brazil, 9
percent in Russia, 6.5 percent in  China  and 5 percent in  South
Africa .  Inflation expectations in India by the end of June climbed
to 12.9 percent from a year ago, compared with 12.7 percent
earlier, the central bank said in a report on Aug. 11, based on
a survey of 4,000 households.  The price of  pulses  dropped 5.6 percent in the week ended
Aug. 6 from a year earlier, today’s report showed. Wheat costs
rose 0.6 percent after a 2.6 percent gain the previous week.  India’s Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said Aug. 15 that
taming inflation would be his government’s “top-most”
priority.  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said Aug. 12 that it’s “too
early to say” whether there would be a change in the Indian
central bank’s monetary policy stance amid threats to economic
growth posed by Europe’s debt crisis and a faltering U.S.
recovery.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  