-- 
Lipitor Generic Rights May Be Sold Should Ranbaxy’s Approval Come Too Late

-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 
2011-08-18T11:07:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/lipitor-generic-rights-may-be-sold-should-ranbaxy-s-approval-come-too-late.html
Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. (RBXY)  may sell
rights to make a generic version of  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Lipitor, the
world’s best-selling medicine, should it fail to win timely U.S.
approval for the cholesterol pill, Credit Suisse AG said.  A legal settlement with Pfizer gave Ranbaxy six months’
exclusivity to market generic Lipitor in the U.S. Delays in Food
and Drug Administration approval may prevent the Indian company
from selling its copies as planned from Nov. 30, Credit Suisse
equity analysts Edward J. Kelly and Rajat Suri said yesterday.  Lipitor is the highest-selling drug of all time, generating
$10.7 billion last year. An FDA investigation into quality
standards at two Ranbaxy manufacturing plants and a federal
investigation into its testing practices have delayed approval
of the drug copy. Federal prosecutors are negotiating a dispute
settlement that may cost Ranbaxy more than $1 billion, Fortune
Magazine reported in May.  “We believe the most likely outcome will involve Ranbaxy
paying a hefty fine to the FDA, which would subsequently clear
the path for Lipitor approval,” Kelly and Suri said in a
report. “The company and most industry experts remain confident
a resolution will be reached in time for Ranbaxy to launch on
Nov. 30.”  Ranbaxy said it can’t comment “at this stage” in an e-
mailed response to questions.  Ranbaxy, based in Gurgaon near  New Delhi , is in discussions
with the FDA to get approval by November and the “negotiations
are progressing well,” Managing Director Arun Sawhney said on
an Aug. 5 conference call.  ‘Weigh on Sentiment’  “Delays in the resolution of the matter will weigh on
sentiment as the date for a generic Lipitor launch approaches,”
Vihari Purushothaman and Dhruva Sabharwal of Tata Securities
Ltd. in Mumbai, wrote in an Aug. 5 report.  Ranbaxy fell 0.9 percent to 475.7 rupees at the 3:30 p.m.
close in Mumbai. The stock has dropped 21 percent this year,
compared with a 20 percent decline in the benchmark Sensitive
Index.  Generic Lipitor would be a key growth driver for Ranbaxy,
Deepak Malik and Ashish Thavkar of Emkay Global Financial
Services Ltd. in Mumbai wrote in an Aug. 6 report. The copy may
contribute $400 million to $500 million in revenue, they wrote.  “However, this gain will largely be off-set by the penalty
imposed on Ranbaxy by the U.S. FDA,” Malik and Thavkar said.  Release Date  If the Nov. 30 deadline isn’t met, Ranbaxy may postpone the
release of its copycat Lipitor, the Credit Suisse report said.
This would also delay the timeline for other generic
manufacturers wanting to sell their own copies, as Ranbaxy’s
180-day exclusivity period does not start until it begins
commercial marketing, it said.  This would benefit Parsippany, New Jersey-based  Watson
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI) , which negotiated with Pfizer to begin
selling a so-called authorized generic by Nov. 30.  Alternatively, Ranbaxy may waive exclusivity in exchange
for payment from a rival generic-drug maker, Credit Suisse said.  “If Ranbaxy anticipates a lengthy delay, it may allow
other generic manufacturers to accelerate their launches for a
one-time payment or a revenue sharing agreement,” Kelly and
Suri said.  Ranbaxy, 64-percent owned by Tokyo-based Daiichi Sankyo
Co., received a one-time payment from Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH
last year for relinquishing its 180-day exclusivity on the
Flomax prostate treatment under similar circumstances, the
analysts wrote.  “Daiichi Sankyo is not in a position to speculate or
comment whether Ranbaxy will get approval for its Lipitor
generic,” Masaya Tamae, a spokesman at the Tokyo-based Daiichi
Sankyo said today by telephone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at   j.gale@bloomberg.net  