-- 
Iraq’s ‘Soft Line’ on Syria Snubs Obama Policy in Nod to Iran

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-08-18T15:00:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/iraq-s-soft-line-on-syrian-violence-snubs-obama-policy-in-nod-to-iran.html
When Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al- Maliki spoke up about the government crackdown in  Syria , it
wasn’t the hard line that President Barack Obama would want from
a U.S. ally in the  Middle East .  “I hope that demonstrations in Syria will not be quelled
by force,” Maliki told the Iraqi television al-Sumaria on Aug.
13, in his first public response to Syrian President Bashar al- Assad’s five-month crackdown on dissidents. Assad should
“respond to the people’s demands and quicken the implementation
of reforms.”  The position of the Iraqi leader, whose ascent to power
followed the U.S.-led overthrow of  Saddam Hussein , is out of
step with the Obama administration, which is rallying
international support for oil and gas sanctions on Syria and
today called on Assad to step down.  “It is embarrassing for Washington in general for the
Iraqi executive to be taking a soft line on Syrian repression,”
said Juan Cole, a  University of Michigan  professor of Middle
Eastern history. “When faced with a choice of favoring U.S. or
Iranian policy, Baghdad tilts to Tehran.”  Assad is fighting the strongest challenge to his regime
since he inherited power from his father 11 years ago. He has
responded by sending his army to suppress protesters, killing
more than 2,000, according to the  United Nations .  Testing U.S. Reach  The crackdown is testing the reach of U.S. policy in a
country where it has little influence. It’s in the interest of
the U.S. that Iraq, where 47,000 American troops remain, acts as
a counterweight to Iran, Syria’s steadfast ally in region.  When saying that “the time has come for President Assad to
step aside,” President  Barack Obama  also announced new
sanctions on the Syria, including the freezing of Syrian
government assets in the U.S. and a ban on imports of Syrian
petroleum products to the U.S.  The stance of Maliki, whose Shiite Muslim party has strong
ties with Shiite-led Iran, contrasts with criticism and action
against Syria taken by other nearby nations.  Tunisia  yesterday
joined  Saudi Arabia ,  Kuwait  and Bahrain in recalling ambassadors
from Damascus. Turkish Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  warned
Assad that the “time for words will be over.”  Even Lebanon, the only Arab country on the UN Security
Council, didn’t block a statement from the 15-member body that
condemned the violence. Lebanon’s government is dominated by the
Iranian-backed Shiite Hezbollah movement and its allies.  Stalled in UN  In  New York , attempts by the U.S. and  Europe  to pass a UN
resolution to stop the carnage in Syria are stalled.  Russia ,
which as one of five permanent members has veto power, has
indicated it will block steps that go further than an Aug. 3
statement condemning the use of force by Syria’s government.  The war in  Iraq  has cost 4,478 U.S. lives as of Aug. 16 and
$750 billion. The two nations are discussing how many U.S.
troops may stay in Iraq to continue training Iraqi forces past
the end of the year, when their agreement on the deployment
expires.  “Iraq, supposed to be the demo case of U.S. power to
people in region, is a strong demo of its limits,” said  Scott
Lucas , professor of American Studies at the University of
Birmingham in  England . “What we have is failure on every level,
and Obama got trapped in the same mindset as Bush.”  The U.S. has also seen Iraq favor other nations in business
deals and choose Chinese over U.S. companies when buying weapons
and telecommunications equipment. China National Petroleum Corp.
is the biggest single investor in Iraq’s oil and gas industry.  Bush’s Decision  In 2008, on the anniversary of Operation Iraqi Freedom,
former U.S. President  George W. Bush  said he made the  “right
decision”  by invading Iraq because a “free Iraq will be an
example for others of the power of liberty to change the
societies and to displace despair with hope.”  Maliki’s eight-month-old government has shown authoritarian
tendencies and forms foreign policy based on political
expediency rather than ethics, Cole said.  Iran  has extended its political, economic and religious
influence in Iraq and become its biggest trading partner. Iran
plans to increase its trade with Iraq from $6 billion to $10
billion dollars, Iran’s state-run Islamic Republic News Agency
said on Aug. 15.  Iranian-backed militant groups pose a bigger and more long-
term threat to Iraq than an al-Qaeda affiliate that this week
killed more than 60 people in one day, said U.S. Army Major
General Jeffrey Buchanan, top spokesman for the force in Iraq.  ‘Political Engagement’  The Iraqi government is increasingly seeing the militant
groups “for the threat they really are,” Buchanan said in an
Aug. 17 interview in Washington. “They have the capacity to
deal with them, but dealing with them can’t be limited to
military means. It also requires political engagement with the
Iranians who are ultimately providing that support.”  Iranian companies have invested in Iraqi banking and
reconstruction, especially in the cities of Najaf and Karbala,
home to some of the world’s most revered Shiite shrines, which
welcome hundreds of thousands of Iranian pilgrims each year.
Last month, Iran signed a contract for the construction of a
2,500-kilometer (1,554-mile) gas pipeline, which will cross Iraq
and deliver Iranian gas to Syria.  Iran “has established influence within the Iraqi
territories the extent of which it never dreamed,” Iraqi Vice-
President Tariq al-Hashimi, a Sunni Muslim, told the London-
based al-Hayat newspaper in an interview published Aug. 11.
“The presence of the U.S. forces in Iraq all the past years of
occupation has not encroached upon the Iranian influence; on the
contrary, it’s getting wider.”  Sadr Trend  Iran’s links to Iraq’s political class extend to the Sadr
Trend, the political organization of anti-U.S. Shiite cleric
Moqtada al-Sadr. Followers of Sadr, who has trained in Iran to
become an ayatollah, have claimed responsibility for recent
attacks on U.S. troops in Iraq. Sadr said earlier this month
that U.S. military trainers will be targeted if the two nations
agree to extend the program past this year.  -- With assistance from Viola Gienger in  Washington . Editors:
Steven Komarow, Jim Rubin, Heather Langan, Karl Maier  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Washington at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in  London  at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 