-- 
Is Rick Perry Too European to Be a U.S. President?: Ezra Klein

-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 
2011-08-18T00:00:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/is-texan-rick-perry-too-european-to-be-next-president-of-u-s-ezra-klein.html
You wouldn’t think that the governor
of  Texas , the most conservative of the viable candidates in the
Republican presidential field, would want to make the U.S. more
like  Europe . Unless, of course, you have read  Rick Perry ’s  book .  “Fed Up,” Perry’s 2010 cri de coeur (yes, that’s French),
can be summed up in one sentence: The federal government is
unconstitutional. Not all of it, of course. Just most of it. In
particular, the parts that include Medicare, Medicaid, Social
Security, education policy, banking regulations, environmental
protection,  gun control  and a few other things I’m doubtlessly
forgetting. And he doesn’t mince words on the subject. Social
Security, Perry writes, is an example of the federal government
“violently tossing aside any respect for our founding
principles of federalism and limited government.”  Perry doesn’t just want to roll back regulations. He wants
to make it impossible for them to exist in the first place. His
book argues that the  Supreme Court  has gone way too far in
empowering the federal government. In particular, the court has
interpreted the Commerce Clause and spending power too broadly,
and the 10th Amendment powers reserved to the states too
narrowly.  Would reversing the relevant court decisions undermine
popular sovereignty and roll back much of 20th century
jurisprudence and the society on which it is based? Sure. But
that, Perry says, is what fealty to the Constitution demands.
“Few people have the discipline to restrain themselves,” he
writes, “but politicians have a particular lust for power.”
(Perry, presumably, is exempt from this temptation.)  A Surprising Court  Even as president, Perry wouldn’t be able to reinterpret
the Constitution all by his lonesome. But a Perry presidency
would probably see at least a few Supreme Court vacancies. Given
enough turnover, we could end up with a high court that takes a
surprising new approach to the Constitution.  What’s perhaps most interesting about Perry’s  take  is that
he’s not quite willing to abandon the government’s core
commitments. When questioned, he doesn’t argue that pensions and
health care are none of the government’s business. Instead, he
suggests that we let “the states keep their money and implement
the programs.” So Perry’s world is not a libertarian dreamscape
devoid of Social Security or bank regulation. It’s a world in
which public pension systems and bank regulation vary state by
state. It’s a world, in other words, that looks less like the
 United States of America  and a whole lot more like the European
Union.  There would be differences, of course. We share a language.
Europe doesn’t. We share an established currency, backed by an
effective central banking system (at least as long as President
Perry doesn’t do something “ ugly ” to the chairman of the
 Federal Reserve ). The euro is obviously a newer innovation, and
the  European Central Bank  is having some trouble getting its sea
legs.  But under Perry’s vision of the U.S., we would be in much
the same place that Europe is now -- trying to navigate a
complex, interconnected and international economy with new,
untested institutions governing our internal relationships. And
we would be moving in the wrong direction.  The European Union, for all its difficulties, is an
admission by its member countries that integration and, to some
degree, centralization serve their purposes in the 21st century.
Their closely knit economies are getting more connected instead
of less, and they need a system of governance to match those
realities. They’re not having an easy time of it, as we have
seen. But the reason they’re sticking with such a challenging
project is that moving backward, toward greater independence, no
longer seems workable.  Ideological Purity  Throughout the current crisis, the speed with which the
U.S. federal government and the Fed acted to put out economic
fires has been a source of economic strength. It’s one reason
investors keep rushing into Treasury bonds. Similarly, federal
power has been essential in helping individual states stay
afloat. Perry would trade all that for a philosophy that offers
ideological purity but little demonstrated capacity to meet the
demands and sustain the pressures of the global economy.  To take just one example, we still haven’t emerged from a
financial crisis caused, in part, by banks’ ability to slip
between the cracks of the federal and international regulatory
system. Now we’re going to break the federal system and give
banks 50 new cracks to slip through?  Ultimately, what Perry is offering is a kind of buck
passing. Rather than proposing solutions to our pressing
national problems, he’s offering to pass the problem onto
someone else: in most cases, the states, and in some cases, the
courts. Saying “I’ll let the states figure out how to handle
Medicare” is really just a way of saying he’ll make Medicare
somebody else’s problem. That may be consistent with Perry’s
philosophy, and his understanding of the Constitution. But the
only problem it solves is his.  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ezra Klein in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 