-- 
Gunmen Kill Seven in Attacks in Israel

-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 
2011-08-18T18:50:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/israeli-bus-hit-by-gunfire-from-car-near-egyptian-border-five-are-wounded.html
Gunmen killed seven people in a
series of attacks in southern  Israel  near the Egyptian border in
the country’s deadliest terrorist incident in more than three
years.  Seven militants involved in the attacks were killed in gun
battles with Israeli troops, the Israeli army said. About 40
people were wounded, according to the army. At least two more
Israeli soldiers were wounded later in the day in a clash with
more gunmen in the same area, Channel Two reported.  Shortly after the incident, Israel’s air force launched a
strike on the  Gaza Strip , a military official said, speaking
anonymously in accordance with regulations. The Popular
Resistance Committees, an umbrella group of militants in the
Gaza Strip, said in a text message to journalists that the
strike killed six people, including its three senior commanders.
The group said it would avenge their deaths.  “The people who sit in Gaza and gave the order to murder
our citizens are no longer alive,” Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu said in a televised address after the air
strike. “If terrorist groups think they can attack our citizens
without a response, they will learn that Israel will make them
pay a price, a very heavy price.”  Natural Gas Supplies  The attacks come amid Israeli concerns that Egyptian
security forces are losing control of the border area following
the February ouster of President  Hosni Mubarak . Egyptian natural
gas supplies to Israel, which receives about 40 percent of the
fuel from  Egypt , were disrupted after four separate attacks on
the pipeline network between Feb. 5 and July 12.  “This reflects Egypt’s weakening hold on the Sinai and the
widening of terror activity,” Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  said
in an e-mailed statement. “The source of terrorist activity is
the Gaza Strip, and we will act against them with force and
determination.”  The Islamic Hamas movement, which governs the Gaza Strip,
said it had no connection with the attacks.  “We deny any kind of involvement by Gaza or any of its
people in the incident in Eilat today,” Taher al-Nounou,
spokesman for the Hamas government in Gaza, said by phone.  Risk of Escalation  “Hamas is not interested right now in an escalation with
Israel,” said Yoram Meital, chairman of Ben Gurion University’s
Herzog Center for Middle East Studies in Beersheva. A major
Israeli operation in Gaza “could bring about an escalation that
could spiral out of control” as Israel heads towards a
difficult period because of an initiative to seek a United
Nations vote next month to recognize Palestinian statehood,
Meital said.  A three-week military operation that Israel launched in
December 2008 to halt rocket fire from Gaza left more than 1,300
Palestinians and 13 Israelis dead. Palestinian Authority
President  Mahmoud Abbas , whose Fatah faction controls the  West
Bank , has said he will ask the UN in September to recognize a
Palestinian state there and in Gaza, a move Israel says could
jeopardize the  peace process .  The U.S. government condemned today’s attacks.  “The U.S. and Israel stand united against terror and we
hope those behind this attack will be brought to justice
swiftly,” President  Barack Obama ’s spokesman,  Jay Carney , said
in a statement.  Resort City  The incident today began at about noon when gunmen opened
fire on a bus traveling to the southern resort city of Eilat,
lightly injuring at least nine people, Lieutenant Colonel Avital Leibovich, an army spokeswoman, said in a phone interview.  Militants later opened fire on a second bus and two cars,
Major General Tal Russo, commander of Israel’s southern front,
said on Channel Two television. The gunmen also opened fire on
soldiers arriving at the scene of the attack, Russo said, and
used explosives in the attacks.  “This was a sophisticated operation carried out by squads
of terrorists that infiltrated into Israel,” Leibovich said.  Seven people were killed in the incidents, said Eli Bin,
director of the Magen David Adom emergency services.  It was the most fatalities in a single terrorist incident
since March 2008, when eight students were killed when a
Palestinian armed with an assault rifle opened fire in a
Jerusalem religious school.  Egyptian Security  “The root of the problem is the weak security presence in
the border area,” said Emad Gad, who heads the Israeli studies
program at the Al-Ahram Center for Political and Strategic
Studies in Cairo. “We don’t have enough forces to control the
security situation. This has created a flow of traffic to and
from Gaza.”  Egyptian security forces have been conducting an operation
to capture “criminals and extremists” responsible for violence
in the northern  Sinai Peninsula , the state-run Al Ahram
newspaper said on Aug. 16. It said that one person was killed in
a shootout and 11 others arrested.  The TA-25 benchmark started falling after reports of
violence and closed down 3.8 percent in  Tel Aviv , the largest
drop in 10 days. The shekel weakened 1 percent, the biggest drop
since Aug. 8, and was trading at 3.5639 shekels to the dollar at
9:06 p.m. in Tel Aviv.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  