-- 
Israel’s Protests Show Need to Mix Growth With Equity: View

-- B y  
-- 
2011-08-18T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/israel-s-protests-show-the-need-to-mix-economic-growth-with-equity-view.html
It’s hard to figure out what
Israelis are so upset about.  Israel ’s economy is performing
better than those in most of  Europe  and much better than that of
America.  Growth in the second quarter of 2011 was 3.3 percent on an
annualized basis, July inflation was less than 3.5 percent
compared with a year earlier, and the  unemployment rate  was 6
percent in the first quarter. Americans can only wish they had
such problems.  Then why did an estimated 300,000 Israelis join protest
marches earlier this month, and why are thousands more living in
tents in Israel’s major cities? And why are more protests
likely? The answers might be found on many of the protesters’
signs: “The people demand social justice.”  It isn’t clear if the demonstrations are a final expression
of Israeli social welfare, or a turn against the conservative
economics that have dominated Israeli policy for much of the
past 15 years.  From its founding in 1948 until 1977, Israelis cherished
communal values and viewed their country as an extended family.
Ostentatious displays of wealth and class distinctions were
discouraged. Taxi passengers routinely rode in front next to the
driver, as did the few Israeli businessmen wealthy enough to
afford chauffeurs. And  Koor Industries Ltd. (KOR) , once the country’s
largest conglomerate, was owned by the trade union federation.  The Israeli  Labor Party , whose leaders were in the
socialist mainstream, ran the government. Residents of
kibbutzim, Israel’s communal farming communities -- never more
than 5 percent of the population -- enjoyed a disproportionate
influence in politics and the military. And the government
offered citizens generous subsidies for basic foods, mass
transit and university education.  Even when the Labor Party lost power in 1977, this system
didn’t change. Menachem Begin, Israel’s first non-Labor prime
minister, famously urged his finance minister to base economic
policy on “being kind to the people.”  In the 1980s, a time of stagnant growth and 400 percent
inflation, Israel began transitioning toward a more market-based
economy. The current prosperity resulted in large part from
budget discipline, begun in 2003 when Benjamin Netanyahu was
finance minister and continued during his present term as prime
minister. Netanyahu lowered income taxes and made up for the
lost revenue by cutting social spending and subsidies and by
increasing indirect taxes.  The Israeli economy, particularly the high-technology
sector, has never been more stable. Companies such as  Check
Point Software Technologies Ltd. (CHKP)  and  Teva Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  have become world leaders. Israel has more
companies traded on the  Nasdaq  than any other country, except
for the U.S. and  China , and it has the world’s largest number of
startup companies per capita. Many Israelis are living more
prosperous lives than ever before.  Why then are they in the streets demanding change? One
reason is that the same market-based economy and restrictive
fiscal policy that have led to economic growth and stability
have also produced rising prices for formerly subsidized items
such as housing, education, child care and transportation.
Housing prices have increased 40 percent in the past three
years, pushing young couples and much of the middle class out of
the market.  Israelis have also seen an increased concentration of
wealth, and much greater income disparity. (Israel’s Gini
coefficient for family income, a measure of inequality, rose
from 35.5 on Dec. 31, 2001, to 39.2 at the end of 2008.) Income
distribution is now more unequal than in any other developed
country except America. Many middle-class Israelis believe their
quality of life is eroding and that the quality of public
services they depend on, such as primary and secondary
education, have declined.  Some protesters have pointed to a deeper cause for middle-
class anger. Amos Oz, a prominent writer and leftist activist,
recently wrote, “The heart of this protest is the affront and
outrage over the government’s indifference to the people’s
suffering, the double standard against the working population
and the destruction of social solidarity.” Many Israelis are
uncomfortable with the new emphasis on individual prosperity
rather than the communal good, and see it as a change, not for
the better, in Israel’s core values.  It’s encouraging that Netanyahu said he  understands the
protesters’ distress  and is prepared to change his economic
policy. In doing so, he should reject a return to deficit
spending and government management of the economy, and instead
allow the market to operate more efficiently. The rising cost of
housing can be brought down by breaking the government’s
stranglehold on approving construction projects. Prices for many
 consumer goods  can be reduced by eliminating bureaucratic
barriers to competition.  A change in priorities might also be required. Manuel Trajtenberg, the chairman of the committee that Netanyahu
appointed to look into policy changes has rightly said he will
examine raising corporate and income taxes, reducing levies on
fuel and lowering the price of electricity and water.  One universal lesson from the Israeli protests might be that
economic prosperity for some, at the expense of social inclusion
for many, is a nonstarter in a democratic society. Finding the
right balance will be difficult, but Netanyahu has no choice. 