-- 
Japanese, Australian Stock Futures Fall on Global Growth Concern

-- B y   A k i k o   I k e d a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 
2011-08-18T23:13:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/japan-australian-stock-futures-fall-on-global-growth-europe-debt-concern.html
Japanese and Australian stock
futures fell on heightened concern the global economy is slowing
and Europe’s debt crisis will damage the banking system.  American depositary receipts of  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the
world’s largest carmaker, declined 2.4 percent from the closing
share price in Tokyo after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. lowered its
rating on Japanese auto sector because of slower U.S. economic
growth. Those of  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) , Japan’s
biggest bank by market value, dropped 3.3 percent. ADRs of  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s largest mining company and
Australia’s No. 1 oil producer, retreated 2.5 percent after oil
and metal prices slipped.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average expiring in
September closed at 8,760 in Chicago yesterday compared with
8,940 in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 8,750
in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on  Australia ’s S&P/ASX
200 Index lost 2.4 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index,
the first market to open in the Asia-Pacific region, fell 1.2
percent in Wellington.  “The economic indicators showed the economy is slowing and
some people have even started to worry about a recession,” said
 Kenichi Hirano , general manager and strategist at Tachibana
Securities Co. in Tokyo. “As sovereign risk still persists, we
haven’t been able to see a path to a solution.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed today. In  New York , the index tumbled 4.5 percent to
1,140.65 yesterday on concern the global economy is slowing and
speculation that European banks lack enough capital. The Stoxx
 Europe  600 Index plunged 4.8 percent in  London  yesterday, the
biggest drop since March 2009.  U.S. Employment  A report showed the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s
general economic index plunged to minus 30.7 this month, the
lowest reading since March 2009, from 3.2 in July. The August
gauge exceeded the most pessimistic projection in a Bloomberg
News survey in which the median estimate was for a reading of 2.
Readings less than zero signal contraction in the area covering
eastern Pennsylvania, southern  New Jersey  and Delaware.  Government data also showed more Americans than forecast
filed applications for unemployment benefits last week, while
the cost of living climbed in July by the most in four months.
Separately, the National Association of Realtors said sales of
U.S. previously owned homes unexpectedly dropped in July,
reflecting an increase in contract cancellations due to strict
lending rules and low appraisals.  Banks Fall  American banks tumbled, following losses in European
financial shares, as Sweden’s financial regulator said his
country’s lenders must do more to prepare for a worsening in
Europe’s debt crisis that could freeze interbank markets and cut
off funding.  Banks also slumped after the Wall Street Journal reported
American regulators are stepping up scrutiny of the U.S. arms of
Europe’s largest banks amid concern that the region’s debt
crisis may lead to funding problems, citing people familiar with
the matter.  Commodities declined on concern slower economic growth will
weaken demand for raw materials. Crude oil for September
delivery plunged 5.9 percent to settle at $82.38 a barrel in New
York yesterday. The London Metal Exchange Index of prices for
six industrial metals including copper and aluminum retreated
2.4 percent.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 11 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with drops of 9.3 percent by the  S&P
500  and 18 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks in the
Asian benchmark are valued at 12.3 times estimated earnings on
average, compared with 11.5 times for the S&P 500 and 9.3 times
for the Stoxx 600.  The yen appreciated to 76.45 against the dollar, compared
with 76.65 at the close of  stock trading  in  Tokyo  yesterday.
Against the euro, Japan’s currency strengthened to 109.39 from
110.46. A stronger yen hurts Japanese exporters because it cuts
the value of overseas sales.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Akiko Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 