-- 
Japan Quake Victims’ Suffering Prolonged With Delays in Aid Distribution

-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a
-- 
2011-08-19T09:05:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/japan-quake-victims-still-see-aid-delays.html
Japan ’s worst natural disaster on
record spurred a $3.7 billion outpouring of donations. Five
months later, survivors living in temporary housing are still
waiting for aid.  Half of the funds donated by groups including the Red Cross
are yet to be disbursed amid a backlog of data processing and
wrangling over how to distribute the money. Thousands of people
in Miyagi, the prefecture  worst affected  by the March 11
earthquake and tsunami, and Fukushima, which hosts Tokyo
Electric Power Co.’s crippled nuclear plant, have received the
least cash,  documents  released by Japan’s health ministry show.  That’s adding to uncertainty for thousands of families
reeling from the disaster, which left more than 20,000 dead or
missing and destroyed 263,000 homes. It’s also frustrating the
recovery of a region that contributes about 8 percent of Japan’s
gross domestic product and manufactures goods from cars to beer.  “We have about 500 to 600 applications coming in daily and
are processing the same amount each day,” said Emiko Okuyama,
the mayor of Sendai, where 700 people died and 65,000 homes were
destroyed by the tsunami. The city doubled the number of staff
issuing payments to survivors, she said last week.  Eighty-two percent of donations allocated to Sendai are yet
to be given to families in the city, which is the capital of
 Miyagi prefecture , according to the health ministry’s documents.  “I’m sorry, I can’t say when most of the money will be
sent to the people,” Okuyama told reporters at an Aug. 9 
briefing . “We are doing all we can to accelerate the process.”  The money was raised by Red Cross Japan, the Central
Community Chest of Japan, public broadcaster NHK and its welfare
arm, according to the health ministry.  Red Cross Donations  Donations were also sent to Japan from 77 Red Cross
branches overseas totaling 38.7 billion yen ($506 million) as of
Aug. 9, according to a  statement  by Japan’s Red Cross. A total
of 25 billion yen has been earmarked for running programs to
distribute relief supplies, provide medical services and
appliances such as washing machines at evacuation centers, and
to help move household goods to shelters, it said.  In Fukushima, one of 15 prefectures eligible to receive
donations, 37 percent of allocated funds weren’t transferred as
of Aug. 12, according to the health ministry documents.  In Chiba prefecture, which neighbors  Tokyo , 36 percent of
the money allocated for the municipality’s 34 cities and towns
are still sitting in local authorities’ bank accounts. In
Urayasu, a bayside suburb that’s home to  Tokyo Disneyland , 42
percent of funds have been distributed.  Large Families  In Fukushima, payments have been delayed while officials in
some towns addressed complaints that a policy to allocate a set
amount per household put large families at a disadvantage.  “Our town has many big families,” said Minoru Shoji, who
works in the local government office in Iitate. His village in
Fukushima was one of the towns which the government ordered
evacuated because of the threat of nuclear fallout from the
crippled Tokyo Electric Power Co. nuclear plant.  “It’s not fair if a household with only one person gets
the same amount as a family of 10,” he said.  Criteria for allocating donations to survivors were set by
a committee comprising the  Red Cross , academics and local
government officials of the affected areas.  Emergency Payment  An emergency payment was made in April that gave families
350,000 yen ($4,570) for each dead or missing relative. The same
amount was also given to families whose homes were destroyed and
those ordered to evacuate within an exclusion zone of the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant.  The committee devised a method in June in which funds were
allocated according to the severity of damage suffered by cities
and towns, which then devised their own method for disbursement
to households. Local governments are also supplementing the
donations to survivors from funds they raised independently.  In Iitate, 204,000 yen will be given to each of the 6,567
residents by the end of August, town official Shoji said.  Families whose homes were inside the 30-kilometer radius of
the crippled nuclear plant and residents outside the zone who
had to be evacuated will be paid 300,000 yen per person in
Fukushima’s Minamisoma city. Those told to prepare for
evacuation will receive 220,000 yen and the rest will be paid
200,000 yen, according to the city’s  website .  A shortage of staff at Japan’s Red Cross delayed the use of
funds raised overseas, Ramona Bajema, a senior program manager
with  AmeriCares , a nonprofit disaster relief group planning to
distribute $8 million raised through donations, said in an
interview in Yokohama near Tokyo today.  “It’s a lot of paperwork,” Bajema said. “It takes an
incredible amount of time” because staff must travel and
consult with government officials to plan projects and oversee
all of the works being sponsored by the donations, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  