-- 
Jefferson County Needs Hostile Legislature’s Help for Deal

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k   a n d   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 
2011-08-18T15:18:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/jefferson-county-deal-to-avert-bankruptcy-hinges-on-hostile-legislature.html
A settlement that would let
Jefferson County,  Alabama , avoid the largest municipal
bankruptcy in U.S. history hinges on help from a legislature
that so far hasn’t been willing or able to offer it.  Even Jefferson’s own lawmakers are divided over Governor
Robert Bentley’s proposal to offer the state’s moral obligation
to back a restructuring of the county’s $3.14 billion sewer
debt, and on how and whether to bolster its general fund. Both
measures are critical to keeping the state’s most populous
county afloat, according to officials there.  Just one local lawmaker can derail a deal, according to
rules for county-specific bills. It happened most recently in
June, when Republican Senator Scott Beason of Gardendale killed
a measure that would have let Jefferson replace a wage tax that
a court struck down, gutting its general fund.  “I was opposed to it then and I’m opposed to it now,”
Beason said in a phone interview last week.  Jefferson County, home to Birmingham and more than 658,000
residents, has been in fiscal straits since a sewer-bond
refinancing collapsed more than three years ago during the
credit crisis. The refinancing involved what court-appointed
receiver John Young described in a report as a borrowing binge
to pay for improvements ordered by the federal government.  The project and its financing were rife with corruption.
Four county commissioners, six former employees, several
contractors and businesses and two investment bankers have been
convicted of bribery and conspiracy, Young’s report said.  Hostile Helpers  The goodwill of Alabama’s Legislature is an unknown as the
county tries once more to settle with creditors including
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Poised to file bankruptcy last week, the
five-member commission agreed to negotiate 34 more days at
Bentley’s request. Bentley promised to call a special session
and to lobby legislators for help.  Any settlement will be contingent on that assistance,
commissioners have said.  That means the county and its creditors must rely on a body
traditionally hostile to and envious of the Birmingham area,
according to William Stewart, emeritus professor of political
science at the  University of Alabama  in Tuscaloosa.  Contributors to the tension are Alabama’s fraught racial
history, a divide between country and city and the area’s
economic dominance, he said.  “In terms of their sympathy with the problems of Jefferson
County, I don’t think they have any,” Stewart said of the
Legislature. “We used to call it the imperial county.”  Fractious Body  He said the Legislature will deliver if Jefferson County
presents a united front, which won’t be easy to assemble.
Racial, party and economic divides have created a delegation
that is “very, very split. They have been for years.”  The Legislature is also embroiled in a corruption scandal
of its own. Two sitting and two former senators, two lobbyists
and three others were accused of bribery related to bills to
allow electronic bingo in the state. None were convicted; two
were acquitted while the other seven may face a second trial.  Testimony in the case showed that lawmakers -- including
Beason -- wore recording devices at prosecutors’ request to
catch their colleagues breaking the law.  Paul Glass, co-owner of Republican political consulting
firm Southern Insights in Birmingham, said that Jefferson
County’s delegation will be unable to unite around any bill
allowing it to raise more revenue, thanks in part to the
corruption surrounding the sewer deal.  Bad Reputation  “Voters don’t trust the Jefferson County Commission with
new revenue,” Glass said in a phone interview. “We finally
have an honest County Commission. It’s not their fault. You
actually have a group working together that’s trying to get this
thing solved, but the perception is so bad.”  A settlement offer from creditors that Jefferson
commissioners rejected last week laid out the bones of Bentley’s
legislative agenda.  The document, released Aug. 12, says the governor supports
laws creating an independent public corporation to own and
finance the system; authorizing the state’s moral obligation
backing for a $2.07 billion refinancing of the sewer debt, or
about 33 percent less than the amount outstanding; requiring new
developments and those with failed septic tanks to hook up to
the sewers to increase the number of customers; and to solve --
somehow -- the county’s general-fund shortfall.  Empty Coffers  The moral obligation, which the creditors’ proposal said
would be worth $1 billion in reduced  interest rates , may be a
hard sell elsewhere in the state, according to Jefferson County
representatives Jack Williams, a Republican, and  John Rogers , a
Democrat. The state wouldn’t be able to bail out Jefferson
should it default, Rogers said.  “We’ve got enough problems at the state,” he said. “We
can barely do a budget. We can’t even fund the prisons right
now.”  Rogers said Bentley called this month asking whether the
county’s 12 Republican and 12 Democrat legislators -- two House
seats are vacant -- could come together.  He said he told the governor that wasn’t likely,
particularly on the question of shoring up the general fund,
which lost about $70 million when the state  Supreme Court  threw
out the so-called occupational tax in March.  County officials have said a general-fund solution is
critical to avoiding bankruptcy.  Diverting Health Funds  Rogers and Senator Linda Coleman, a Birmingham Democrat,
said they would support a new tax. Beason said he would not.  He wants to remove earmarks on a local penny sales tax that
raised about $56 million last year, instead. State law now sends
65 percent of that money to pay for health care for the poor.
Rogers and Coleman oppose taking that money away.  David Perry , chief of staff for the governor, said
legislation might be drafted to prevent any single county
lawmaker from stopping it. A law creating a sewer district might
apply to counties of a certain size, and not just Jefferson, for
instance, Perry said.  “In a special-session context, it would be very much a
statewide issue,” he said.  The governor does have some powerful allies in his effort
to avoid a Jefferson County bankruptcy.  Business Weighs In  The Birmingham Business Alliance, chaired by James McManus,
the chief executive officer of  Energen Corp. (EGN) , has pushed for a
settlement. In a memo to its membership last week, MacManus and
Chairman-elect John Johns, chief executive of insurer  Protective
Life Corp. (PL) , said a filing would be “devastating” to efforts to
attract and retain companies.  “The business Republicans are behind” a settlement even
though it may require a tax increase, said Larry Powell, a
University of Alabama at Birmingham professor of communications
and former political consultant. “It’s the Tea Party
Republicans who are opposing it. They’re not a majority, but
they’re enough to create a problem.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net :
Margaret Newkirk in Birmingham, Alabama, at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  