-- 
JPMorgan Plans to Start Offering South African Corporate Banking Services

-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 
2011-08-18T10:23:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/jpmorgan-to-start-offering-south-african-corporate-banking-services.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the second-
biggest U.S. bank by assets, will start offering banking
services to South Africa’s largest companies as it seeks to tap
faster growth outside the U.S. and  Europe .  The bank will offer corporate clients lending as well as
treasury and foreign exchange services, Eric von Glehn, managing
director of JPMorgan in Johannesburg, said in a telephone
interview yesterday. The lender, which has been in South Africa
since 1998, already offers clients services such as advice on
mergers and acquisitions and on debt and stock offerings. It
doesn’t plan to compete with South African banks, he added.  “We’re broadening our products and services,” von Glehn
said. “We have lots of big multinationals doing business all
over Africa and in  South Africa  and we’re in Africa so it makes
enormous sense to be their partners.”  Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  has made expanding
overseas a priority as growth in the U.S. and Europe stalls.
South Africa’s economy is forecast to grow 3.7 percent this
year, according to the central bank. JPMorgan, the top-ranked
adviser on mergers globally, is also trying to add clients as
its share of South Africa’s market for stock offerings shrinks.  The bank, the top-ranked adviser on stock offerings in
South Africa between 2001 and 2004, fell every year to ninth
position last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
This year it doesn’t feature at all in the equity rankings. In
mergers, JPMorgan worked with  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  on its
acquisition of a 16.5 billion-rand ($2.32 billion) stake in
South African retailer  Massmart Holdings Ltd. (MSM) , a deal which
started last year and was approved in May.  Gaining Market Share  Competitors such as  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  are
gaining market share and are the two top-ranked stock
underwriters in Africa’s largest economy this year.
Johannesburg-based  Absa Group Ltd. (ASA)  has worked with parent
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  to net 37 debt underwriting assignments in 2011.  Transactions may come from working more closely with South
African companies, Von Glehn said. Banks, retailers and mining
companies are all expanding across the continent with South
Africa home to some of the world’s biggest metals producers
including Anglo American Platinum Ltd. and Gold Fields Ltd.  “The mining sector is certainly an area we’re going to be
focusing on,” he said. We’ll be looking at the blue chips, the
top 40.’’  Companies have held nine share sales for a combined total
of $1.4 billion in South  Africa  this year, according to
Bloomberg data. That compares with 21 offerings valued at $4.5
billion in total last year. In the year to date South African
companies have also proposed 156 takeovers valued at 81.8
billion rand, compared with 195 mergers in the first three
quarters of 2010 which were valued at almost 130 billion rand.  “A lot of deals are taking longer to close than we had
hoped but it probably means next year will be exciting,” Von
Glehn said. “The difficulty closing is a function of markets
being wobbly, concerns about economic growth and a lack of
confidence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  