-- 
Junk Yields Top 10% as Growth Woes Shutter Market: Euro Credit

-- B y   B e n   M a r t i n   a n d   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n
-- 
2011-08-19T09:02:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/junk-yields-top-10-as-growth-woes-shutter-market-euro-credit.html
Junk-rated European company bond
yields climbed above 10 percent for the first time in a year as
investors demand more compensation for the region’s stalling
economic growth.  “These psychological levels are quite important, going
from nine to 10 is different from going from eight to nine,”
said Michael Hampden-Turner, a credit strategist at Citigroup
Inc. in  London . “You’re seeing outflows of funds but if we went
to 11 percent that would certainly attract attention as a buying
opportunity.”  Yields on speculative-grade debt climbed to as high as 10.1
percent on Aug. 11, the most since June 2010 and 2 percentage
points up on the start of this month, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s Euro High-Yield Constrained Index.
That’s double the rate on Italian and Spanish 10-year government
debt after the  European Central Bank  bought the securities to
bring down yields to contain Europe’s sovereign crisis.  Borrowers unwilling to pay the higher premiums demanded by
investors as the risk of recession looms means there have been
no new junk bond sales in  Europe  since July 26, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Gross domestic product in the 17-
nation euro region rose 0.2 percent in the second quarter, the
worst performance since it emerged from recession in 2009.  Deteriorating Conditions  The extra yield buyers demand to own junk bonds instead of
benchmark German bunds has almost doubled in the past four
months as investors seek havens for their cash, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data show. The spread is at 816 basis points, or
8.16 percentage points, up from this year’s low of 476 basis
points on April 11.  “It would certainly be a lot more difficult than a couple
of weeks ago” to sell high-yield debt, said Stefan Huber, group
treasurer for Vienna-based brickmaker  Wienerberger AG (WIE) , which
sold junk-rated bonds in June. “In the last two months
conditions on the market have certainly deteriorated.”  The world’s biggest brickmaker raised 100 million euros
($143 million) from a sale of 5.25 percent bonds on June 21
priced to yield 279 basis points more than German government
debt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The spread has
widened to about 325 basis points, according to Erste Group Bank
AG prices on Bloomberg.  Wienerberger is rated Ba1 by Moody’s Investors Services and
BB at  Standard & Poor’s . High-yield, or junk, bonds are rated
below Baa3 by Moody’s and BBB- by S&P.  Cash Conservation  The prospect of government and central bank intervention to
stave off recession is making investors wary of buying,
according to Chris Brils, co-head of global high-yield at F&C
Management Ltd.  “No one has a strong conviction on what policy makers are
going to do, so you’re probably likely to conserve your cash and
see what happens with yields,” said Brils, whose firm oversees
almost 1 billion euros of speculative-grade assets and bought
“very small quantities” of bonds last week.  Junk bonds  currently yield 9.8 percent on average, down
from last week’s high, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show.  Italian plastic and glass packaging maker Bormioli Rocco
Holdings SA was the last company to offer sub-investment grade
bonds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The paucity of new issues is a reversal of the first half
of 2011 when companies from  Fiat SpA (F)  to distiller Pernod Ricard
SA sold a record 31.8 billion euros of junk-rated debt as they
took advantage of tumbling default rates and tightening yield
spreads, Bloomberg data show.  “It’s true that you don’t see a lot of issuance in the
summer, but we’re playing the game now where a lull in
volatility can turn into a deal,” said Citigroup’s Hampden-
Turner. “You do get issuers looking for spots of calm. But any
deal would be tough.”  Austerity Bites  Confidence in junk-rated debt is deteriorating as nations
such as Italy and  Spain  tackle the debt crisis by implementing
austerity measures that may hamper economic growth and hurt
companies’ ability to pay debt.  “You’re looking at an environment where a lot of these
companies are fundamentally linked to the economic outlook,”
said Andrew Sheets, head of European credit strategy at Morgan
Stanley in London. “They’re ultimately tied to a European
economy and a European banking system, both of which are
currently struggling.”  Corporate defaults in Europe could rise as concerns so-
called peripheral countries will be unable to pay their debt
seeps into the region’s financial system, Moody’s said in an
Aug. 8 report. The ratings firm estimates the global default
rate may increase to 1.8 percent in 2012 from 1.5 percent at the
end of 2011 while the risk of recession persists.  Returns Erased  Speculative-grade bonds lost investors 1.1 percent this
year after forfeiting 5.2 percent since the end of July,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data. That’s after
the securities earned 14.7 percent last year and a record 76.4
percent in 2009.  European-based mutual funds reduced holdings of high-yield
bonds for the first month this year in June, pulling 1.1 billion
euros out of junk-rated debt, according to  Fitch Ratings . That
compares with a net inflow of 5.1 billion euros in the first
half. Funds added 290 million euros of investment-grade debt in
June after cutting 230 million euros in May, Fitch said.  “Prior to the most recent resurgence of the eurozone
crisis we’ve seen both quality companies and companies in much
more challenged circumstances managing to get deals done,” said
Norval Loftus, chief investment officer at Allegra Investment
Management Ltd. in London. “That second type of company is
going to find it much more difficult to obtain financing even at
significantly higher spreads.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Martin in London at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net ;
Hannah Benjamin in London at 
 hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  