-- 
Karuturi Global Plans $500 Million Investment in Tanzania Food Production

-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 
2011-08-18T10:35:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/karuturi-global-plans-500-million-investment-in-tanzania-food-production.html
Karuturi Global Ltd. (KARG) , the world’s
largest rose grower, may invest as much as $500 million in food
production and processing in Tanzania as it expands operations
in East Africa.  The company plans to lease land to grow palm oil, sugar
cane and cereals in Tanzania, to add to land it has acquired in
Ethiopia where it already grows the same crops, Managing
Director Sai Ramakrishna Karuturi said in an interview. Karuturi
is currently visiting Tanzania, Uganda and Ethiopia as part of a
delegation of 35 Indian investors who are considering investing
$2.5 billion in the three countries, he said yesterday.  “There is huge potential for the agriculture sector in East
Africa,” Karuturi said. “The region has 120 million hectares
(297 million acres) of arable land, the same size of arable land
in India.”  Companies from India are boosting economic ties with  Africa 
amid competition from  China , its regional rival, whose trade
with the continent totaled $106.8 billion in 2008, according to
Consultancy Africa Intelligence’s website. Trade between India
and Africa currently stands at $50 billion, according to the
African Union.  Karuturi Global’s investment in Tanzania will “mainly come
from our internal resources,” Karuturi said, without providing
further details. The company is seeking 200,000 hectares of land
for palm oil, 150,000 hectares for cereals and 20,000 hectares
for sugarcane, he said.  Other Indian companies represented among the delegation
visiting East Africa include  McLeod Russel India Ltd. (MCLR) , the
world’s biggest tea grower, Kaveri Seed Co., Crane Global
Solutions Ltd., and The Escorts Group, Karuturi said.  Regional Trade  Trade between India and Tanzania in 2009 totaled $1.1
billion, according to Karuturi Global. Indian and Ethiopian
trade was $272 million in the same year, while trade with Uganda
totaled $220 million, it said in an e-mailed statement.  The Bangalore-based company would develop the land in
Tanzania gradually, for example at a pace of about 10,000
hectares annually for an anticipated  palm-oil  plantation,
Karuturi said.  Tanzania has 44 million hectares of arable land, though
only 24 percent of that is being utilized, according to
government data.  In Ethiopia, Karuturi may receive an additional 200,000
hectares of land from the Ethiopian government if its current
100,000-hectare concession is developed within two years, the
 Agriculture Ministry  said in May.  Financial Interests  The financial interests of Indian companies including
 Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) ,  Bank of Baroda (BOB)  and  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) 
in East Africa currently totals about $1.4 billion and that
amount may grow by more than $400 million next year, according
to Indian High Commissioner Kocheril Velayudhan Bhagirath.  “We will consider a line of credit of $92 million to the
Tanzanian government after it completes implementing the
existing line of credit,” Bhagirath said yesterday by phone from
Dar es Salaam.  Tanzania is currently repaying a $40 million-loan from the
Export-Import Bank of India, which the government used to buy
1,000 tractors, supplied by Agri-Machinery Group of Escort Ltd.  The group of Indian investors leaves for  Uganda  tomorrow,
and will be in Ethiopia on Aug. 21 for meetings meeting with
government officials and prospective investment partners,
Karuturi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in Dar es Salaam via Nairobi at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 