-- 
Kenya Shilling Strengthens After Discount Rate is Raised a Fourth Session

-- B y   P a u l   R i c h a r d s o n   a n d   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-08-18T08:59:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/kenyan-central-bank-sets-overnight-discount-window-rate-at-17-89-today.html
Kenya ’s  central bank  raised its
overnight discount window lending rate for the fourth
consecutive day, a move that may reduce liquidity and help the
country’s currency strengthen against the dollar.  Policy makers lifted the rate to 17.89 percent from 15.68
percent yesterday, according to figures published on its website
today. Kenya’s currency appreciated 0.4 percent to 92.88 versus
the dollar at 11:20 a.m. in Nairobi, headed for the biggest gain
in four sessions.  “By making the rate charged at the discount window more
punitive, the Central Bank of Kenya intends to reduce the
pressure on the shilling that is being exacerbated by cheap
liquidity,” Yvonne Mhango, a Johannesburg based economist at
 Renaissance Capital  said in an e-mailed note today. The shilling
is forecast to trade in the range of 92 shillings and 94
shillings until the end of the year, Mhango said.  The shilling retreated 13 percent against the U.S. currency
this year before policy makers first imposed a three percentage
point penalty on borrowing at its overnight discount window on
Aug. 15. Under the new rules, the central bank applies the
premium to either the previous day’s interbank rate, or the key
benchmark lending rate, whichever is higher. The Nairobi-based
bank had previously applied its key lending rate, currently 6.25
percent.  The overnight lending rate between banks was 14.89 percent
yesterday, according to the  central bank ’s  website . Kenya’s
shilling is  Africa ’s second-worst performer this year, after
 Uganda .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  