-- 
Krugman Says Italy, Spain Can ‘Probably’ Survive Euro Zone’s Fiscal Crisis

-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 
2011-08-18T15:48:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/krugman-says-italy-spain-can-probably-survive-euro-zone-s-fiscal-crisis.html
Italy  and  Spain  are at an increased
risk of exiting the euro as European leaders grapple with how to
contain the region’s sovereign debt crisis, Nobel economics
laureate  Paul Krugman  said.  “There are the ones that can probably make it through,
even though it will be very unpleasant, as long as there isn’t a
panic, and those would be Spain and Italy,” he said today in an
interview in Stockholm. “There are the ones that are probably
fundamentally insolvent where there’s going to have to be a debt
writedown and those would be Greece,  Portugal , Ireland.”  European leaders are struggling to solve the debt crisis,
after a July 21 accord to boost the region’s rescue fund failed
to calm markets. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  rejected on Aug. 16 an expansion of
the 440 billion-euro ($630 billion) bailout fund as well as
calls for common euro-area bonds, arguing for more economic
integration first.  The  European Central Bank  this month ended a five-month
hiatus to buy 22 billion euros of  government bonds  in the week
through Aug. 12, and has bought more since. That helped push 10-
year Spanish and Italian yields below 5 percent after they
surged to euro-era records the previous week.  Spain’s 10-year yield advanced four basis points to 4.94
percent as of 4:35 p.m. London time. Italy’s 10-year yield rose
three basis points to 4.93 percent. German benchmark notes with
a similar maturity dropped 12 basis points. Yields move
inversely to price.  Leaders need to make it clear that there will be funding
available to prevent the crisis spreading to Italy and Spain,
Krugman said.  ‘Scary Story’  “I still think that the odds that Italy will be forced out
of the euro are fairly low but they are not zero, they may be 10
percent, so it’s a scary story,” Krugman said. In May, Krugman
put the risk of Italy and Spain being forced to leave the common
currency at 1 percent, calling it a “nightmare scenario.”  The chance of  Greece  exiting the euro is more than 50
percent, he said, adding that a partial default by the southern
European nation probably won’t be enough to solve the bloc’s
problems.  Krugman, a columnist for the New York Times, also said the
ECB needs a “much more expansionary” monetary policy and to do
more so-called quantitative easing. The risk for a global
recession may be “a bit higher” than one-in-three, he said.  Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi’s Cabinet approved
45.5 billion euros in deficit cuts to tame the euro region’s
second-biggest debt burden. The deficit-reduction plan aims to
balance the budget in 2013 by raising the capital-gains tax,
increasing levies on the highest earners, cutting spending and
reducing funding to regional administrations.  There’s “a pretty good case” that Italy doesn’t have
fundamental solvency problems, Krugman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in  Stockholm  at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.ne  