-- 
Natural-Gas Fracking Rules Considered by U.S. for Federal Lands

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r   a n d   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 
2011-08-18T18:37:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/natural-gas-fracking-rules-considered-by-u-s-agency-for-federal-lands.html
The U.S. is weighing whether to
impose new rules on hydraulic fracturing to extract natural gas
on public lands.  Companies such as  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  of The
Woodlands,  Texas , and Treasure Resources Inc. of Windsor,
 Colorado , may be required to disclose chemicals used in the
drilling and adopt well-integrity standards as part of the
permit process, Robert Abbey, director of  the Bureau of Land
Management , said in an interview today in Bloomberg’s Washington
office.  “We have the authority to move forward with our own rule-
making to require such a disclosure and other best-management
practices that we deem are feasible and appropriate,” Abbey
said. Such regulations are being “seriously entertained,” he
said.  In fracturing, or fracking, companies inject water, sand
and chemicals under high pressure thousands of feet underground
to break up shale-rock formations and release the gas trapped
there. The technique is used for more than 90 percent of wells
drilled on public lands, Abbey said.  Environmentalists and local officials have said the
technique can pollute water resources.  Natural-gas production on federal lands rose 6.5 percent to
2.97 trillion cubic feet, or 14 percent of U.S. production, last
year, according to the agency’s website.  Abbey said the bureau had no evidence that fracking has
“adversely affected groundwater.”  Disclosure, Best Practices  To ease public fears, companies should voluntarily disclose
the chemicals they use and adopt “best practices” to prevent
leaks from wells that could pollute water supplies that are
thousands of feet above the gas reserves, he said.  “The integrity of well casing is very, very important,”
Abbey said.  The agency, part of  the Interior Department , will wait for
the final results of a  task force  set up by the Energy
Department to review the risks of hydraulic fracturing before
deciding whether to impose rules, he said.  Last week, the task force released a draft report that said
natural-gas companies risk causing serious environmental damage
unless they adhere to certain standards.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net ;
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  