-- 
NetApp Shares Drop After Sales, Forecast Fall Short of Analysts’ Estimates

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 
2011-08-18T20:25:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/netapp-shares-drop-after-sales-forecast-fall-short-of-analysts-estimates.html
NetApp Inc. (NTAP)  dropped the most in four
years in Nasdaq trading a day after the maker of data-storage
products reported fiscal first-quarter sales that missed
analysts’ estimates.  Sales in the quarter that ended July 29 were $1.46 billion,
the Sunnyvale, California-based company said yesterday. Analysts
on average predicted revenue of $1.51 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Second-quarter sales will be $1.5 billion
to $1.6 billion, the company said, compared with an average
estimate of $1.61 billion.  NetApp’s business “softened dramatically” toward the end
of July, with the growth rate for the month half of what it was
in May, the company said on a conference call yesterday after
the report. Sales to the U.S. federal government were lower than
expected and bookings from large financial institutions dropped,
Chief Executive Officer Thomas Georgens said on the call.  “To see the business slow down quite significantly in that
final month is what’s getting reflected in the stock price,”
said Bill Choi, an analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC.
“Investors are sensitive about how all of these equipment
companies will face a tougher” economic environment, he said.
Choi rates NetApp shares “neutral.”  NetApp fell $5.86, or 14 percent, to $35.81 at 4 p.m. New
York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market, the biggest decline in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. The stock’s drop was the most since
August 2007. NetApp has lost 35 percent this year.  Net Income  Net income in the first quarter fell to $139.5 million, or
34 cents a share, from $150.7 million, or 40 cents, a year
earlier. Profit excluding certain items was 55 cents, NetApp
said. Analysts on average had projected 56 cents.  Chief Financial Officer Steve Gomo said it’s “too early to
tell” whether the company will need to reduce its forecast for
fiscal 2012.  “It will depend upon whether broader economic stability
occurs in the coming months,” he said on the call.  The company also saidGomo will retire at the end of the
year. Nicholas Noviello, currently senior vice president of
finance, will replace Gomo in a planned transition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  