-- 
Netanyahu Says Militants to Pay ‘Heavy Price’ for Southern Israel Attacks

-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 
2011-08-19T00:39:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/netanyahu-says-militants-to-pay-heavy-price-for-southern-israel-attacks.html
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu
said Palestinian militants who attack Israelis will “pay a very
heavy price,” after squads of gunmen killed eight people and
wounded 30 in a series of assaults outside the resort town of
Eilat.  “Those who thought they could hurt us without any response
will see there is a price to pay, a very heavy price,”
Netanyahu said in broadcast comments late yesterday before
meeting top ministers to discuss possible Israeli action.  After the attacks, an Israeli air strike on the Hamas-
controlled  Gaza Strip  killed six members of the umbrella Popular
Resistance Committees, including its two top commanders. The
group said it would avenge their deaths. A rocket fired from
Gaza later hit near the southern Israeli city of Ashkelon, the
army said. No injuries were reported.  The violence raised the possibility of an escalation
between Israel and the Islamic militant Hamas that has
controlled the Gaza Strip since ousting Palestinian Authority
President Mahmoud Abbas’s Fatah party in 2007 after winning
parliamentary elections a year earlier.  “The military is already striking those responsible for
the attacks and if there is a need, the operations will be
expanded,” Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  said in broadcast
remarks.  A three-week military operation that  Israel  launched in
December 2008 to halt rocket fire from Gaza left more than 1,300
Palestinians and 13 Israelis dead.  Israeli Shares Fall  Israel’s benchmark TA-25 Index started falling after
reports of the violence and closed down 3.8 percent in  Tel Aviv ,
the largest drop in 10 days. The shekel weakened 1 percent
against the dollar, the biggest drop since Aug. 8, and was
trading at 3.5639 shekels to the dollar at 9:06 p.m. in Tel
Aviv.  Hamas is considered a terrorist organization by Israel, the
U.S. and European Union. The group refuses to negotiate with
Israel or recognize any agreements signed with it. Hamas denied
it was involved in yesterday’s attacks.  Chief Palestinian negotiator Saeb Erakat urged the
international community to step in to prevent an escalation and
said “such violence doesn’t advance the Palestinian cause for
freedom and independence.”  Palestinian Statehood Bid  The Palestinians plan to ask the  United Nations  next month
to recognize their state in the absence of peace talks with
Israel. The negotiations fell apart last September after
Netanyahu refused to renew a 10-month partial freeze on
settlement construction in the  West Bank  and Abbas said he
wouldn’t return to talks without a total halt on building.  Israel’s army is reinforcing points on its frontiers and
boosting stockpiles of rubber bullets and tear gas to prepare
for possible unrest stemming from the Palestinian initiative, a
senior officer said on July 19.  A major military operation in Gaza “could bring about an
escalation that could spiral out of control as Israel heads
towards the difficult period in September,” said Yoram Meital,
chairman of Ben Gurion University’s Herzog Center for Middle
East Studies in Beersheva. “Hamas is not interested right now
in an escalation.”  Seven militants involved in the attacks were killed in gun
battles with Israeli troops yesterday, the Israeli army said.  An Israeli official, speaking on condition of anonymity as
he was not authorized to speak to the press on the matter, said
the gunmen left Gaza, entered Sinai, and crossed into Israel in
an area less heavily patrolled than the Hamas-controlled
territory’s border with Israel.  Egyptian Border Security  The bloodshed came amid Israeli concerns that Egyptian
security forces are losing control of the border area following
the February ouster of President  Hosni Mubarak . Egyptian
natural-gas supplies to Israel, which receives about 40 percent
of the fuel from Egypt, were disrupted after four separate
attacks on the pipeline network between Feb. 5 and July 12.  “This reflects Egypt’s weakening hold on the Sinai and the
widening of terror activity,” Barak said in an e-mailed
statement. “The source of terrorist activity is the Gaza Strip
and we will act against them with force and determination.”  Egyptian security forces in the northern  Sinai Peninsula 
arrested 20 people, including Palestinians, suspected of
involvement in attacks on police stations and a natural  gas
pipeline  to Israel, the state-run Middle East News Agency said
yesterday.  Root of Problem  “The root of the problem is the weak security presence in
the border area,” said Emad Gad, who heads the Israeli studies
program at the Al-Ahram Center for Political and Strategic
Studies in Cairo. “We don’t have enough forces to control the
security situation. This has created a flow of traffic to and
from Gaza.”  Major General Al-Sayed Abdel-Wahab Mabrouk, governor of
Egypt-North Sinai, denied that the armed men who carried out the
attacks in Israel came from  Egypt , the state-run news agency
said yesterday.  “Border guards have complete control of border lines
between Gaza and Egypt,” Mabrouk said, according to MENA.  The U.S. government condemned yesterday’s attacks, which
caused the most Israeli fatalities in a single terrorist
incident since March 2008, when eight students were killed by an
armed Palestinian who opened fire in a Jerusalem religious
school.  “The U.S. and Israel stand united against terror and we
hope those behind this attack will be brought to justice
swiftly,” a statement from President Barack Obama’s spokesman,
 Jay Carney , said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  