-- 
New England Scene: Albee, Nichols, Sarah Jones, Michael Chabon

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-08-18T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/new-england-scene-albee-nichols-sarah-jones-michael-chabon.html
One day a year, the MacDowell Colony
in Peterborough,  New Hampshire  -- usually a quiet place for
artists to work -- becomes a cultural tourist trap.  Cars snake along the approach road. Long lines form for
picnic baskets. Crowds gather around the best-known artists.  On Sunday, they included novelist Michael Chabon, chairman
of the colony; playwright Edward Albee; Mike Nichols, who
directed the film version of Albee’s “Who’s Afraid of Virginia
Woolf?”; and Sarah Jones, who starred in her own show on
Broadway, the Tony-winning “Bridge & Tunnel.”  The occasion is Medal Day, as the festivities include the
presentation of the Edward MacDowell Medal, named for the
composer whose wife, Marian, founded the colony on their
property in 1907, shortly before he died. There are 28 artists
currently in residence on the 450-acre campus for periods as
long as eight weeks.  This year the medal went to Albee, who recalled his first
visit to the colony 60 years ago.  “I spied a shortish, baldish man lurking in some pine
trees,” he said, “and I asked him to read my poems.”  The man was playwright Thornton Wilder, and as Albee
recalled, he went over the poems and then asked him if he had
ever thought about writing plays.  “I took his advice,” Albee said.  After the ceremony, 1,500 visitors picnicked on the grounds
and waited for the most fun part of the day: three hours to
visit artists in their cabins.  The colony provided maps to help folks navigate the
unmarked dirt roads that lead to rustic one-room structures
tucked away in the woods.  ‘Gingerbread Home’  Playwright Stephen Karam described his cabin as “a
gingerbread home fit for a hobbit,” and noted that James
Baldwin once occupied it. The view was better than that of his
 New York  basement apartment, he said.  Karam is using his residency to rewrite two projects coming
to New York this fall. The Roundabout Theatre Company is
presenting his play “Sons of the Prophet,” and Gotham Chamber
Opera will produce “Dark Sisters,” an opera about Mormons with
a libretto by Karam and music by Nico Muhly.  Karam had attached to one wall an array of pink index cards
on which he’d written things like “Wife No. 19” and “clothes
trapped in a washing machine.”  “This is my dream wall,” he said, “Even I don’t
understand what will come of it.”  ‘Tempest Fantasy’  Composer Paul Moravec offered visitors a CD of his Pulitzer
Prize-winning composition “Tempest Fantasy,” which he started
at MacDowell. He is now working on a piece for wind ensemble.  Performance artist and Joni Mitchell impersonator John
Kelly showed off the walking sticks he has collected and painted
while at MacDowell. He said he will use some of them in his
October performance at New York Live Arts of “Find My Way
Home,” a retelling of the myth of Orpheus and Eurydice set in
the Great Depression.  The ebullient Jones said she does everything in her cabin,
including yoga, dance and working on a commission for Lincoln
Center Theater.  For Medal Day, she covered the walls of her studio with
press clippings about her work.  “It’s not normally up there,” Jones said. “I’m not a
narcissist or anything.”  Chabon applied for a residency to escape his brood of four
kids, he said. “In your cabin, in February, you cannot hear
your children crying to watch another episode of Sponge Bob.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 