-- 
New QPR Owner Tony Fernandes Sponsors Premier League’s Referees

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-08-18T16:43:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/new-qpr-owner-tony-fernandes-sponsors-premier-league-s-referees.html
Tony Fernandes , the new majority
owner of west London soccer team Queens Park Rangers, already
has interests in the Premier League: A company he founded
sponsors the referees.  Tune Group Sdn. Bhd. -- parent company of the budget
airline AirAsia, controlled by the tycoon since 2001 -- agreed
on a three-year contract last year to have its brand emblazoned
on the uniforms of match officials. The Professional Game Match
Officials board said the deal was worth “seven figures.”  Fernandes, announced today as QPR’s owner, said he’s spoken
to the Premier League about the agreement and doesn’t think it’s
a problem.  “I actually conveniently forgot about it,” Fernandes,
chief executive officer of AirAsia, said in an interview at
QPR’s stadium. “I don’t think any referees are going to say
‘Tune is sponsoring me so I am going to make sure QPR win.’”  The officials board said today the sponsorship is a
“valued partnership.”  “There is no direct contact between Tune and PGMO
officials, and this will continue,” PGMO said in a statement.
“The sponsorship was agreed by the PGMO board, made up of an
independent chairman and representatives from the Football
Association, Premier League and Football League.”  England ’s top division is the richest in world soccer, with
its latest three-year television contract generating about 3
billion pounds ($4.9 billion). The matches are available in 211
territories and reach 650 million households, according to
league figures.  Fernandes bought a 66 percent share in QPR, which was
promoted at the end of last season, from Formula One chief
 Bernie Ecclestone  and Flavio Briatore, his partner. The
billionaire Mittal family will retain one-third of the club.  Formula One Team  Malaysia’s Fernandes, 47, is also involved in Formula One
as the head of Team Lotus.  Under Fernandes, a former Time Warner Inc. executive,
AirAsia has gone from being a two-plane startup in 2001 to
 Asia ’s biggest listed budget airline. He has a net worth of $470
million, according to Forbes magazine, and is a sponsor of the
Oakland Raiders team in the  National Football League . The
AirAsia brand sponsored Premier League match officials between
2007 and 2010.  Tune Group’s portfolio also includes hotels and online
banking portal Tune Money.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  