-- 
Times Square Bomber’s Cash Source Pleads Guilty to Illegal-Business Charge

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-08-18T21:33:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/new-york-man-tied-to-times-square-bomber-to-plead-guilty-in-manhattan.html
Mohammad Younis, the  New York  man
who provided $7,000 to Times Square bomber Faisal Shahzad,
pleaded guilty to operating an illegal money-transfer business.  Younis, 45, of Centereach, New York, faces a prison term of
as long as six months under a plea agreement, U.S. District
Judge  John Keenan  in New York said today.  The defendant spoke on the phone to Shahzad and the two met
on April 10, 2010, in a parking lot in  Long Island  where Younis
provided him with money transferred by an unnamed co-conspirator
in  Pakistan , prosecutors said in an indictment. Younis also
provided $5,000 to a second unnamed person as part of his
illegal business, prosecutors said.  “I transmitted $5,000 to one individual and $7,000 to
another individual,” Younis said today.  “You mean you didn’t know their names?” Keenan asked.  “No,” Younis said.  Shahzad’s name wasn’t mentioned in court today. Younis, who
is scheduled to be sentenced Nov. 30, remains free on $100,000
bond. He declined to comment after the hearing.  “My client was not involved in any terrorist activities,”
Phil Solages, Younis’s lawyer, said after the hearing. “Our
client is a hard-working husband and father and he condemns the
actions of Faisal Shahzad.”  Homemade Bombs  Shahzad pleaded guilty last year to planting homemade bombs
in his Nissan Pathfinder and abandoning it in  Manhattan ’s Times
Square on May 1, 2010. The bombs were discovered before they
went off. Shahzad was sentenced in October to life in prison.  Prosecutors said the payments of cash Shahzad used to carry
out the plot were arranged in Pakistan by associates of Tehrik-
e-Taliban, the Pakistani arm of the Taliban, and transferred
through the illegal money-remitting business Younis ran.  Keenan said today that Younis, a U.S. citizen originally
from Pakistan, could be deported as a result of his conviction.
The judge also signed an order directing Younis to forfeit the
$12,000 he earned as part of the illegal money-transfer
business.  The case is U.S. v. Younis, 10-CR-813, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 