-- 
New Zealand’s Housing Recovery Will Be Slow, ASB Survey Shows

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-08-18T13:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/new-zealand-s-housing-recovery-will-be-slow-asb-survey-shows.html
New Zealand ’s housing market will
recover slowly, while a shortage of new construction is likely
to bolster prices, ASB Bank Ltd. said, citing the results of a
July survey.  The proportion of respondents expecting higher  home prices 
rose to 44 percent from 35 percent in the previous survey in
April, Auckland-based ASB said in an e-mailed report today.
Forty percent said now is a good time to buy a house, unchanged
from the previous survey.  “We expect nationwide  house prices  will increase at a
modest annual rate of 3 percent heading into 2012,” ASB Chief
Economist  Nick Tuffley  said in the report. “The continued low
level of residential building consent issuance raises the risk
of an undersupply of housing over the coming years. This will
likely provide support for prices.”  Home-building approvals fell 26 percent in the six months
ended June 30 from a year earlier, adding to a shortage of new
homes that will bolster prices. Variable home-loan  interest
rates  are at a 46-year low, according to central bank figures.  Still, the percentage of respondents in ASB’s survey
expecting higher home-loan interest rates over the next 12
months rose to 54 percent from 46 percent, the bank said.  The increase in rate expectations means ASB’s overall
housing confidence gauge declined, Tuffley said.  Since the survey, volatility in global financial markets
has led to a reduction in bets the central bank will raise the
official cash rate from a record-low 2.5 percent, he said.  There is a 28 percent chance of a quarter-percentage-point
rate increase at the Sept. 15 policy meeting, down from 144
percent on Aug. 1, according to a Credit Suisse Group AG index
based on swaps trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  