-- 
NFL Allows Pryor Into Special Draft, Suspends Him for His First Five Games

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-08-18T15:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/nfl-allows-pryor-into-special-draft-suspends-him-for-his-first-five-games.html
Former  Ohio State University 
quarterback Terrelle Pryor was banned for the first five games
of the National Football League season while being allowed to
enter the league’s supplemental draft next week.  The NFL said Pryor was punished for trying to “undermine
the integrity” of draft rules.  Pryor, who committed violations that led to the Columbus,
Ohio, school’s football team vacating all of its wins last
season, announced in June that he would skip his senior season.
He faced a five-game suspension mandated by  National Collegiate
Athletic Association  had he stayed with the Buckeyes.  NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell today set down his own ban
in allowing Pryor to join five other players for the
supplemental draft on Aug. 22, five days later than originally
scheduled. Pryor will be allowed to sign a contract and
participate in the rest of the preseason with the team that
drafts him, and then won’t be allowed to practice or play until
his suspension ends.  “NFL clubs were informed that Pryor made decisions that
undermine the integrity of the eligibility rules for the  NFL
draft ,” the league said in a statement.  It said the quarterback failed to cooperate with the NCAA
and hired an agent in violation of collegiate rules. Ohio State
declared him ineligible and Pryor then applied to enter the NFL
after the regular draft in April.  The 22-year-old Pryor led the Buckeyes to three straight
Big Ten Conference titles and in December was one of five Ohio
State players suspended for selling team memorabilia to a
Columbus tattoo shop owner. That ban alone wouldn’t have made
him eligible for the supplemental draft after announcing his
departure from school.  ‘Fun Time’  Pryor, on his Twitter feed, said: “God bless and thanks
for support! Time to have a little fun!!”  Drew Rosenhaus, Pryor’s agent, said on his own Twitter feed
he and his client were “excited” about the quarterback’s
inclusion in the draft. He thanked  DeMaurice Smith , the head of
the NFL Players Association, “for his contribution in making
this possible,” with no elaboration.  George Atallah, a spokesman for the union, didn’t
immediately return an e-mail seeking comment on Rosenhaus’s
statement.  The supplemental draft is for players who lose college
eligibility after the primary draft. Players are selected
through a three-step lottery and secret bidding.  The lottery begins with teams that had six wins or fewer
the previous season, followed by the rest of the non-playoff
teams and concluding with those that made the postseason. Teams
make bids for players by offering a pick in the following year’s
draft. For example, if two offer a third-round for Pryor, ties
are broken by the order of the lottery.  Other Players  Other players eligible for the draft are running back Caleb
King of  Georgia ; defensive backs Torez Jones of Western Carolina
and Tracy Wilson of Northern Illinois; and defensive ends Keenan
Mace of Lindenwood and Mike McAdoo of  North Carolina .  Ohio State posted a 31-4 record in three seasons with Pryor
at quarterback, winning the Sugar Bowl and  Rose Bowl . Pryor
completed 477 passes for 6,177 yards and 57 touchdowns, and
rushed for 2,164 yards. He also threw 26 interceptions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 