-- 
No Sex Campaign for All Black Rugby Fans Pulled After New Zealand Outrage

-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 
2011-08-18T00:02:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/no-sex-campaign-for-all-black-rugby-fans-pulled-after-new-zealand-outrage.html
A planned campaign urging New
Zealand rugby fans to abstain from sex to help the All Blacks
national team win the Rugby  World Cup  was canceled after causing
public offense and embarrassment.  Telecom Corp of New Zealand Ltd. (TEL) , through the All Blacks’
official BackingBlack fan club it sponsors, yesterday released
details of a campaign asking supporters to “Abstain for the
Game.” The plans were scrapped today after attracting ridicule
and condemnation on news and social media websites.  “No excuses. We caused offense to some people, and for
that we apologize.” Telecom Retail’s Chief Executive Officer
Alan Gourdie said in an e-mailed statement. “We misjudged
public feeling, which in reaction to yesterday’s partial
revelations in the news media was overwhelmingly negative.”  The campaign’s participants were to wear black rubber
finger rings to show their support during the Sept. 9-Oct. 23
World Cup. Posters bearing the slogan, “Touch, pause and don’t
engage” -- a play on words from the instruction referees give
at scrums during matches -- were to be placed in the country’s
bus shelters, the  New Zealand  Herald reported yesterday.  BackingBlack was founded by Telecom Corp. and is endorsed
by the New Zealand Rugby Union as the All Blacks’ official fan
club. The abstinence campaign was to be fronted by former All
Blacks captain  Sean Fitzpatrick , who filmed an advertisement in
which he drove a motorized replica of a hand wearing a black
abstinence ring, in front of the New Zealand flag.  ‘Got it Wrong’  “We designed the ‘Abstain’ campaign with the best of
intentions, and attempted to strike a humorous tone in order to
rally even more support behind the All Blacks, but we got it
wrong,” Gourdie said in the statement.  The campaign was designed as a humorous take on the
“mythology” that abstaining from sexual activity improves
sporting prowess, Kieren Cooney, chief marketing officer at
Telecom’s retail arm, told  Television New Zealand  yesterday.  The All Blacks, the world’s top-ranked team, won their only
World Cup title in 1987 when New Zealand co-hosted the inaugural
tournament with  Australia . The All Blacks open this year’s
edition Sept. 9 against Tonga at Auckland’s Eden Park.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  