-- 
‘Surprise’ Yen Move Mulled by Noda as Currency Gains Hurt Japan Recovery

-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 
2011-08-19T04:42:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/noda-pledges-to-do-utmost-to-stop-strong-yen-hurting-growth.html
Japanese Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said currency-market intervention needs to surprise and
he’s ready to act to stem gains in the yen that could derail an
export-led recovery.  Noda told reporters in Tokyo today that he will continue to
monitor markets closely and that both the government and Bank of
Japan are doing what they can to support the economy. He said
yesterday that he was prepared to take “bold” action and that
intervention “is a measure of last resort -- it would be
meaningless if it were not a surprise.”  Finance Ministry  and central bank officials met yesterday
in Tokyo to discuss the yen as the currency approached postwar
highs against the dollar, two weeks after authorities last
intervened. The BOJ will need to add stimulus to the world’s
third-largest economy given uncertainty from the stock rout as
well as moves by its counterparts to ease policy, economist
 Yoshimasa Maruyama  said.  “Intervention on its own can’t change the medium-term
trajectory of the currency,” said Maruyama, a senior economist
at Itochu Corp. in Tokyo. “Additional easing from the BOJ is
unavoidable.”  The yen traded at 76.50 per dollar at 1:18 p.m. in Tokyo.
The currency advanced to a postwar high of 76.25 in March after
a record earthquake and tsunami in the northeast, prompting the
Group of Seven nations to jointly intervene in the currency
market to sell the yen. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average slid 1.9
percent, following stock declines in the U.S. and  Europe .  ‘Appropriate Action’  “There are various things the central bank can do to
support Japan’s economy,” Noda said at a press conference in
Tokyo today. “The government and BOJ will continue to exchange
information closely, with each doing their part by taking
appropriate action at the right time.”  Japan ’s exports dropped a more-than-expected 3.3 percent in
July from a year earlier, a government report showed yesterday,
and a strengthening currency risks further weighing on the
nation’s overseas sales. Noda said a strong yen has benefits as
well as drawbacks, including making it cheaper for companies to
make overseas acquisitions.  “I will continue to do my utmost to avoid the continuation
of a severe economy hurt by the strong yen,” Noda said. His
warning of “bold” action in the market was a reiteration of
comments he made on Aug. 14.  Noda also said Japan’s debt could become a bigger problem
for Japan than the rising yen and that the country’s fiscal
situation is “most severe.” The government will ask all
ministries to cut policy spending 10 percent from last year’s
initial budget, Jiji Press reported, citing unidentified people
informed of the plan.  Debt Grows  Japan’s public debt is projected to reach 219 percent of
gross domestic product next year even before accounting for
borrowing to fund reconstruction after the March 11 earthquake
and tsunami, according to the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development.  Takehiko Nakao, Japan’s vice finance minister for
international affairs, said he discussed “the yen and global
financial markets” with  Bank of Japan  Executive Director
Hiroshi Nakaso at the bank’s headquarters in Tokyo yesterday.  The announcement of the meeting “was meant to be verbal
intervention but, as you can see, the impact is getting smaller
and smaller,” said  Masafumi Yamamoto , chief currency strategist
at Barclays Bank Plc in Tokyo. “The yen is strengthening
gradually and it’s hard to decide when to intervene so Japanese
authorities want to buy time.”  Nakao declined to comment on whether he discussed
intervention with Nakaso. G-7 finance chiefs and central bank
governors said they will “consult closely” with regard to
actions in  currency markets , in a statement issued on Aug. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in  Tokyo  at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  