-- 
Not-for-Profit College Board Getting Rich as Fees Hit Students

-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 
2011-08-18T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/not-for-profit-college-board-getting-rich-as-fees-hit-students.html
When Gaston Caperton was recruited
to run the  College Board , owner of the SAT entrance exam, he
said he didn’t want to just run “a testing company.”  Founded by Harvard and 11 other universities in 1900 to
create a standardized test to admit students based on merit
rather than family connections, the  College Board  by 1999 was
facing cash-flow problems.  Caperton turned the nonprofit company into a thriving
business, more than doubling revenue to $660 million by boosting
fees, expanding the  Advanced Placement  program and the sale of
names of teenage test-takers to colleges. A former West Virginia
governor, he persuaded 11 states to cover fees for a preliminary
SAT in the 10th grade.  Now, Caperton is planning to retire amid concern that the
College Board’s improved revenue has come at the expense of
students and their families, who pay hundreds of dollars in fees
even before they apply to college, parents, admissions officials
and high school counselors said.  “The College Board is more interested in marketing and
selling things than it is in its primary responsibility,
promoting equity and educational opportunity,” said Ted
O’Neill, who  stepped down  as admissions dean of the  University
of Chicago  in 2009 and served on several College Board
committees.  The revenue growth is a reflection of serving more students
and providing more services, Caperton, 71, said in an interview
at the College Board’s New York headquarters.  Commitment to Education  “The College Board’s commitment to education was the
impetus for every initiative we have undertaken during the past
decade,” Caperton said in a follow-up e-mail.  The group gave $53 million in  fee waivers  and subsidies for
all its programs in the year that ended in June, with one
student in five in the class of 2011 taking the SAT for free.
The organization is dedicated to an “equity agenda” and has
expanded access to higher education, especially for the poor,
African-Americans and Hispanics, Caperton said. Low-income
students can take the test twice, along with as many as six SAT
subject tests over two sittings at no charge.  “I happen to believe whether you’re running a government
or you’re running a not-for-profit that you have to run it in a
business-like way, which means that you have to have your
revenues more than your expenses,” he said.  Another trend driving the College Board’s rise in revenue
is that students today apply to more colleges. The percentage
applying to seven or more schools almost doubled to 25 percent
in 2010 from a decade earlier, according to the Cooperative
Institutional Research Program’s  Freshman Survey , which polled
more than 250,000 students under the auspices of the University
of  California ,  Los Angeles .  Admissions Frenzy  The College Board is responding to the frenzy around
college admissions, offering upgraded services to those who are
willing to pay, said Bob Sweeney, a guidance counselor for 25
years at Mamaroneck High School, outside of New York.  “The College Board is capitalizing on the perceived and
exaggerated importance of the SATs,” Sweeney said in an
interview. “The fees are symptomatic of the frenzy of it all,
how much we’ve all put the testing and the results on a
pedestal.”  The SAT costs  $49  if students register about three weeks in
advance, up from $23.50 in 1999, when Caperton took the helm.
Those who want to rush results to a college pay $30 extra for
the first school and $10.50 for each additional. SAT test takers
pay $25 to change their exam date, $43 more if they want to
“stand by” for a test and show up without signing up in
advance. It costs $18 for the “question-and-answer” service,
which lets students study their past exams.  ‘Anxious Parent’  The company’s “Score Choice” program lets students who
take the test more than once send their highest scores in the
individual math, reading and writing sections to colleges.  While such services are voluntary, an “anxious parent or
student ignores them at their peril,” said Patrick Hayashi, who
served as a College Board trustee from 2000 to 2004 and is a
former associate president of the  University of California .  Some charges, such as rush fees, have become
“exploitative,” said Bruce Poch, who stepped down in December
as dean of admissions at Pomona College in Claremont,
California. “The fees go almost unnoticed because it’s not like
writing a tuition check, one lump sum. It adds up over time.”  Test company rival  ACT Inc. , based in  Iowa  City, Iowa,
generated revenue of $274 million in the year ended August 2010,
including $216 million from academic testing and $45 million for
workforce development programs, according to a tax filing.  ACT Fees  ACT -- which charges  $49.50  for its test, about the same as
for the SAT -- hasn’t come under as much criticism because it
has a lower profile than the College Board and doesn’t offer as
many services such as an Advanced Placement program or subject
tests. The cost to rush an ACT score to a school is $15. It
costs $21 to change an ACT exam date, 16 percent less than for
the SAT.  Samantha Karp, 18, paid more than $800 for two PSATs, two
SATs and two SAT subject tests, and to complete six Advanced
Placement classes at her high school in Roslyn,  New York . She
also paid for a study guide, two student-answer services, two
change fees and to send her test scores to 14 colleges.  “This is the system today,” said Natalie Karp, 49,
Samantha’s mother, who took the SAT once, about 30 years ago,
before applying to two schools. She attended the  State
University of New York  at Binghamton. Her daughter will start at
Colgate University in Hamilton, New York, this month.  While $86 may seem small compared with the cost of college,
the fee almost prevented Geoffrey Vedernikoff, whose father is
unemployed, from taking an  Advanced Placement  test in government
at his Los Angeles high school. The tests allow students to earn
college credit for high school courses, potentially lowering
their college tuition costs or letting them graduate early.  ‘$86 Bucks’  Vedernikoff, whose parents emigrated from Moscow, didn’t
qualify for a fee waiver because his mother makes about $65,000
a year as an accountant. He paid for one  Advanced Placement 
test, but decided taking a second was too expensive.  “I didn’t want to spend 86 bucks because I didn’t think I
needed government in college,” said Vedernikoff, 17, who was
his class valedictorian. He starts at the  University of
Pennsylvania  in Philadelphia this year.  His government teacher, Karen Magee, disagreed. They
discussed his dilemma and she stepped in to pay for the test.
Many teachers at the school pay fees for kids who can’t afford
them, she said in an interview.  “He’s a brilliant kid and he works very hard,” Magee
said. “It’s so much money. The system was dumb and unfair that
he shouldn’t be able to reap the rewards of the test.”  Dartmouth-Bound  Advanced Placement exams contain essay questions that are
scored by college professors and teachers across the U.S. “It’s
an expensive, but highly effective and valid process,” said
Peter Kauffmann, a spokesman for the College Board.  Paying fees paid off for Hector Del Real, the son of
Mexican immigrants in Inglewood, California. While he qualified
for some waivers, he still spent about $760 on College Board
fees, including $169 to fill out and send a financial aid
profile -- which schools use to determine eligibility for
scholarships -- to nine colleges. It took the 18-year-old almost
three months of working a Sunday shift of eight to 10-hours in a
warehouse to raise the money. His father, a tree trimmer, makes
about $55,000 a year, while his mother recently lost her factory
job.  Del Real, who had a 3.95 grade-point-average, will attend
 Dartmouth College  this year on an almost full scholarship. His
parents will pay about $3,000 a year to the Hanover,  New
Hampshire , school, which charges about $55,000 for  tuition, room
and board , and Del Real is taking out a $7,800 student loan for
the first year.  Solid Footing  Caperton has been committed to opening opportunities for
low-income and minority students, said Richard Riley, the
secretary of education under President  Bill Clinton .  “Equity was an important matter for him,” said Riley,
who’s known Caperton for more than 25 years.  In 1999, the College Board recruited Caperton from  Teachers
College  at  Columbia University , where he founded and ran the
Institute on Education and Government. He also was a fellow at
Harvard University’s  Institute of Politics . A Democrat, he
served two terms as  West Virginia ’s governor from 1989 to 1997.  At the time, the College Board took in income only at
certain times of the year and wanted to increase reserves so
that it wouldn’t need to borrow money, said Michael Behnke, a
former trustee who sat on the search committee that hired
Caperton.  The board believed Caperton -- whose compensation including
deferred pay was valued at $1.3 million in the year ended June
2010 -- could put the company on solid financial footing, Behnke
said.  Congressional Inquiry  Caperton worked to bolster revenue, expanding products such
as the Student Search Service, which sells to colleges the names
of test takers at 33 cents each. The company had $63 million in
sales from its business that includes selling names in the year
ended June 2010, almost 10 percent of total revenue.  The company’s name-selling business and that of ACT
prompted an inquiry in May from U.S. Representatives Ed Markey,
a Massachusetts Democrat, and Joe Barton, a Republican from
 Texas . The College Board believes “protecting the privacy
rights and safety of young people must always remain a paramount
concern,” the company wrote in a June letter to the lawmakers.  About a year after joining the College Board, Caperton said
he met with Jeb Bush, then governor of  Florida , to discuss
giving the PSAT to every student in Florida in 10th grade to
increase the number of poor and minority students going to
college. Florida began funding the program in the 2004-2005
school year, according to the state’s department of education.  Lobbying Costs  By 2008, 10 states agreed to pay fees to the College Board
for 10th-graders to take the PSAT, according to a College Board
 newsletter . Texas appropriated money a year later.  Part of the impetus in appealing to states was the rise of
the ACT, created in 1959 as a test of achievement rather than
aptitude. It is especially popular in the Midwest and West. Of
students who graduated high school in 2010, some 1.57 million
students took the ACT, with about 28 percent coming from the
seven states that require the test, ACT said. Almost 1.6 million
took the SAT, according to the College Board.  The College Board spent $726,000 on lobbying in the year
ended June 2010, while ACT, spent $101,000 in the corresponding
fiscal year, according to tax returns.  The Texas legislature allocated $26 million in 2009 to fund
tests for two years. It declined to extend funding this year due
to budget cuts. Individual school districts can still pay for
the tests on their own.  South Carolina  and  Hawaii , which had
previously paid for the tests, have also cut off funding.  ‘Fair and Equitable’  One way to ease the pressure on students and families would
be for the College Board to bundle costs, giving discounts to
students who, for instance, take multiple Advanced Placement
exams, along with the SAT and SAT subject tests, said Poch, the
former Pomona dean of admissions.  Poch also suggested that colleges take on some of the fee
burden, particularly for students applying for financial aid.
The schools might be able to negotiate discounts with the
testing companies, he said.  That would make the process “more fair and equitable,”
Poch said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janet Lorin  in New York   jlorin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jonathan Kaufman  at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 