-- 
Obama, Allies Call On Assad to Leave Office Amid Deadly Crackdown in Syria

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-08-18T16:16:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/obama-is-said-to-be-ready-to-urge-assad-to-step-down-after-syria-bloodshed.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama , joined
by the leaders of the U.K.,  France ,  Germany  and  Canada , called
on Syrian President Bashar al-Assad to leave office, saying
“the time has come” for the Syrian people to determine their
future.  It was the first explicit demand for Assad’s departure from
the U.S. and comes more than a month after Obama said Assad had
lost legitimacy to lead. The declaration adds to momentum
building at the  United Nations  for a formal resolution against
the bloodshed. European Union foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton  also called today on Assad to step down.  Citing the “ferocious brutality” of government forces,
Obama also signed an executive order freezing any Syrian
government assets in the U.S. and banning import to the U.S. of
petroleum products of Syrian origin. The order denies Syria
access to the U.S. financial system and prohibits people in the
U.S. from doing business with Syria. The EU also is moving to
broaden its sanctions on Assad’s regime.  “For the sake of the Syrian people, the time has come for
President Assad to step aside,” Obama said in a statement
released by the White House. “It is time for the Syrian people
to determine their own destiny, and we will continue to stand
firmly on their side.”  European Condemnation  The condemnation was echoed in a joint statement from U.K.
Prime Minister  David Cameron , French President Nicolas Sarkozy
and German Chancellor Angela Merkel, who said Assad “has lost
all legitimacy and can no longer claim to lead the country.”  Faced with the most serious threat to his family’s 40-year
rule, Assad has deployed tanks, armored vehicles, artillery and
helicopters to crush the uprising that began after revolts
ousted the leaders of Tunisia and Egypt and sparked a conflict
in  Libya .  Security forces killed at least 25 protesters yesterday,
activists said. Government forces have killed more than 2,400
people since the unrest began in March, according to Mahmoud Merhi, head of the Arab Organization for Human Rights, and Ammar Qurabi of the National Organization for Human Rights in  Syria .  Syria’s government has engaged in a “pattern of human
rights violations that constitutes widespread or systematic
attacks against the civilian population, which may amount to
crimes against humanity,” a fact-finding mission report for the
Geneva-based UN Human Rights Council said today.  International Court  The Human Rights Council should urge the Security Council
to “consider” referring the situation in Syria to the
International Criminal Court, the report said.  The UN report may add to a European-led push to overcome
Russian and Chinese resistance to firmer UN action against
Assad.  Patrick Seale, a biographer of Bashar’s late father, former
President Hafez al-Assad, said the Syrian leader will be
difficult to topple as long as the army and security forces
remain loyal.  “His main asset is that no foreign country has any
appetite for a military intervention and the Russians and the
Chinese will certainly veto any attempt to condemn him at the UN
Security Council,” Seale said.  Obama said in his statement that the U.S. “cannot and will
not impose this transition” on Syrians “and we have heard
their strong desire that there not be foreign intervention in
their movement.”  Mounting Pressure  Pressure has been mounting this month for bolder steps
against Assad after  Saudi Arabia , Kuwait, Bahrain and  Tunisia 
withdrew their ambassadors from Damascus. The foreign minister
of neighboring Turkey,  Ahmet Davutoglu , said on Aug. 15 that the
“time for words will be over” unless Syria ends military
operations against its people.  Regional criticism has increasingly isolated Assad, leaving
Iran as his only unwavering ally in the region. Neighboring
Lebanon, part of the UN Security Council, didn’t block a
statement from the 15-member body that condemned the use of
force in five months of violence.  While the U.S. has little influence over Syria’s economy,
the EU sanctions may have a bigger bite because 90 percent of
Syria’s oil exports go  Europe , a senior administration official
said, briefing reporters on condition of anonymity.  Coordinated Response  As violence in Syria continued, Obama discussed a
coordinated response with Sarkozy and Merkel on Aug. 5, Cameron
on Aug. 13 and Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  on
Aug. 11, said another administration official at the briefing.
Assad’s attacks on protesters during Ramadan served as a turning
point in pulling together an international coalition, the
official said.  Marc Ginsberg, a former U.S. ambassador to  Morocco , said
Obama’s call for Assad to stand aside will have little practical
effect.  Assad “basically thumbed his nose at us because what the
U.S. says or does is less important than what importers of
Syrian oil do, what the Turkish government does and whether
Assad has lost control of Damascus and Aleppo, which he has
not,” said Ginsberg, who is president of Layalina Television
and senior vice president at APCO Worldwide in Washington.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in  Washington  at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Krause-Jackson in New York at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  