-- 
Obama’s Education Secretary Says Perry’s Schools Left Behind

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 
2011-08-19T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/obama-s-education-secretary-says-perry-s-schools-left-behind.html
U.S. Education Secretary  Arne Duncan 
said Texas’s school system “has really struggled” under
Governor  Rick Perry , a Republican candidate for president, and
the state’s substandard schools do a disservice to children.  “Far too few of their high school graduates are actually
prepared to go on to college,” Duncan said on Bloomberg
Television’s “Political Capital With Al Hunt” airing tonight
and tomorrow. “I feel very, very badly for the children
there.”  “You have seen massive increases in class size,” Duncan
said of the Texas public school system during Perry’s terms as
governor since December 2000.
“You’ve seen cutbacks in funding. It doesn’t serve the children
well. It doesn’t serve the state well. It doesn’t serve the
state’s economy well. And ultimately it hurts the country.”  Perry has been an outspoken critic of President Barack Obama’s education policies. Perry declined to participate in
Obama’s Race to the Top initiative that awards federal grants in
exchange for adopting national standards, saying the program
“smacks of a federal takeover of public schools.”  Perry said participating “could very well lead to the
‘dumbing down’ of the rigorous standards we’ve worked so hard to
enact.” He has called Duncan a “true bureaucrat.”  Perry in June signed a $172.3 billion state budget that
included $4 billion in cuts to public schools and cut financial
aid to 43,000 college students, according to the Dallas Morning
News.  Texas  Rankings  The estimated public high school graduation rate in Texas
ranks 43rd of the 50 states, at 61.3 percent, according to the
Legislative Budget Board’s 2010  Texas Fact Book.   Among 4.75 million students in Texas public schools in
2008-09, the most recent year for statistics compiled by the
 National Center for Education Statistics , 48.8 percent were
eligible for free or reduced lunches and 15.1 percent were in
limited-English proficiency programs.  Duncan’s critique of Texas comes days after Perry’s formal
entrance into the 2012 presidential race on Aug. 13 and his Aug.
15 comment that it would be “almost treacherous -- or
treasonous” if Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
increased stimulus spending before the election.  Mark Miner, a spokesman for the Perry campaign, responded
to Duncan’s comments in an e-mail.  “The president’s secretary of education may want to do a
little more homework before commenting on education in Texas,”
he said. “Under Governor Perry, Texas has been a national
leader in adopting college and career-ready curriculum standards
that will ensure Texas students graduate prepared to succeed in
college and the workplace.”  Miner cited  Education Week , in September 2009, as
recognizing Texas as a national leader in adopting college and
career ready standards. “Texas continues to lead the country in
 job creation  because companies know they can find educated and
highly skilled workers here,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Talev  in  Washington  at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 