-- 
Coburn Says Obama Pushes Reliance on Programs That Aided Him

-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 
2011-08-19T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/obama-fosters-program-dependency-coburn.html
Republican Senator  Tom Coburn  of
 Oklahoma  said President  Barack Obama  espouses a “goofy and
wrong” political philosophy and seeks to “create dependency”
on programs that helped black males like him.  During a speaking tour of his home state, Coburn also
described his fellow senators as a “class of career elitists”
and jokingly voiced his frustrations by saying “it’s just a
good thing I can’t pack a gun on the Senate floor,” according
to an  account  of the senator’s comments published on the Tulsa
World’s  website .  Coburn offered a defense of the president when a voter
asked the lawmaker whether Obama wants to destroy the country.
Obama and Coburn have publicly called each other friends from
their days as Senate colleagues.  Obama’s “intent isn’t to destroy,” Coburn said, according
to a transcript of the senator’s remarks that the Tulsa World
reporter, Randy Krehbiel, provided to  the Plum Line , a
Washington Post blog, and said in an e-mail was accurately
reproduced there. “It’s to create dependency because it worked
so well for him,” the senator added.  “As an African-American male, coming through the progress
of everything he experienced, he got tremendous benefit through
a lot of these programs. So he believes in them,” Coburn said.  The senator didn’t specify the programs to which he was
referring.  Different Experience  “I just don’t believe they work overall, and in the long
run they don’t help our country,” Coburn is quoted as saying in
the transcript. Obama “doesn’t know that because his life
experience is something different.”  Becky Bernhardt, the senator’s spokeswoman, said in an e-
mail that Coburn “was obviously joking” when he remarked about
not being able to be armed on the Senate floor “and would be
happy to apologize to any of his colleagues who were offended.”  She didn’t respond to questions about Coburn’s comments on
Obama.  Coburn said it would be wrong to conclude that Obama
“doesn’t love our country. I think he does.”  And “there’s
nothing wrong with his philosophy other than it’s goofy and
wrong,” the senator said.  Jen Psaki, deputy communications director for the White
House, declined to comment on Coburn’s remarks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
1913 or  jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 