-- 
Crude Oil Heads for Fourth Weekly Drop as Brent Premium Widens to Record

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-08-19T07:38:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/oil-drops-as-much-as-1-3-extending-plunge-after-banks-cut-growth-outlook.html
Oil fell in  New York , heading for a
fourth weekly drop, as investors bet fuel demand will falter
amid signs of weaker growth in the world’s biggest crude
consumers. Brent traded at a record premium to U.S. prices.  Futures slipped as much as 2.4 percent today, leading a
decline in global commodity prices, after slumping 5.9 percent
yesterday. Supply disruptions in the North Sea and  Africa  have
boosted Brent to $25.95 a barrel above New York crude, which has
tumbled 30 percent from its peak this year. U.S. oil supplies
are 4 percent higher than the five-year average after
unexpectedly rising last week.  “There’s weakness across the  euro zone , and the
possibility of a dip back into recession is now a material
probability,” said  Ben Westmore , a minerals and energy
economist at National Australia Bank Ltd. in  Melbourne , who
predicts U.S. futures will average $93 a barrel in the third
quarter.  Crude for September delivery dropped as much as $2 to
$80.38 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $81.24 at 8:24 a.m. London time. Prices are
down 4.8 percent for the week. The more actively traded October
contract fell 90 cents to $81.61.  Brent oil for October settlement declined 62 cents, or 0.6
percent, to $106.37 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. Prices are 1.5 percent lower this week and 16
percent below this year’s high.  Record Premium  Brent’s premium has widened amid supply disruptions in the
 North Sea ,  Nigeria  and  Libya , in contrast to increasing
stockpiles in the U.S. The price, a benchmark grade for Europe,
the Mediterranean and Africa, was most recently at a discount to
New York crude on Aug. 16, 2010.  “The news out there is not good for crude,” said  Jonathan Barratt , a managing director of Commodity Broking Services Pty
in Sydney, who predicts New York oil will average $100 a barrel
in 2011. Prices this year have averaged $97.17.  U.S. oil inventories increased 4.23 million barrels to 354
million last week, an Energy Department report showed Aug. 17.
They were forecast to drop 500,000 barrels, according to a
Bloomberg News survey of analysts.  Supplies haven’t been disrupted by the weather as much as
in previous years. The 2011 Atlantic storm season has set a
record for the most tropical systems without a hurricane,
according to  Dennis Feltgen , a spokesman for the National
Hurricane Center in Miami. Seven named storms have formed this
year, a mark the season usually doesn’t reach until Sept. 16.  Ichimoku Cloud  Oil is extending losses as futures drop below technical
support at about $83.83 a barrel, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s the lower of two leading-span lines marking a
so-called Ichimoku cloud on the weekly technical chart. Crude
fell to a four-year low of $32.40 in December 2008 about two
months after breaching a similar support level at $88.83.  Crude may slide next week, a Bloomberg News survey showed.
Sixteen of 38 analysts, or 42 percent, forecast a decline
through Aug. 26. Last week, 41 percent of respondents projected
a gain.  Prices are being driven lower by financial markets, not by
supply and demand, Qatar’s oil minister, Mohammed Saleh al Sada,
said in Doha yesterday. Qatar, a member of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, pumped 810,000 barrels of oil in
July, according to Bloomberg News estimates.  “In view of the fact that oil is a strategic commodity, we
are watching what is happening in global markets,” he said.  Global Economy  Citigroup Inc. cut its growth forecast for the U.S.,
joining Morgan Stanley in raising concern the global economy
will slow. Data yesterday showed jobless claims rose and
Philadelphia-area manufacturing shrank by the most since 2009.
 China  will expand 8.9 percent this year, down from an earlier
forecast of 9.1 percent, Deutsche Bank AG said in a report dated
Aug. 17, citing the “shock” of a U.S. and European Union
slowdown.  The U.S., China and  Europe  will account for about 48
percent of global oil demand this year, according to
International Energy Agency estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  