-- 
Tombini Says Brazil Central Bank to Assess Impact of Global Growth Crisis

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 
2011-08-18T16:50:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/tombini-says-brazil-central-bank-to-assess-impact-of-global-growth-crisis.html
Brazil ’s central bank will take into
account slower economic activity and a “more challenging”
global economy at its next policy meeting, said central bank
President Alexandre Tombini. Yields fell after Tombini’s
remarks, as traders increased bets the bank will cut borrowing
costs this year.  Tombini also said policy makers may “reassess” their
earlier view that slower global growth was “neutral or
ambiguous” on Brazilian inflation during their Aug. 30-31
meeting.  “We have a monetary policy meeting at the end of this
month, and surely the global environment that has become more
challenging recently as well as the economic activity indicators
that we have seen in Brazil will all be taken into account when
we consider the next steps for monetary policy,” Tombini said
in a conference call with journalists today.  Traders are betting the central bank will cut borrowing
costs 0.5 percentage point this year and are split on whether
the bank will cut rates by a quarter point this month. Brazil’s
economy shrank in June for the first time since the global
financial crisis of 2008.  Commodities Prices  The yield on the interest rate futures contract maturing in
January 2013, the most traded in  Sao Paulo  today, fell 26 basis
points, or 0.26 percentage point, to 11.49 percent at 12:38 p.m.
New York time. The real fell 1.1 percent to 1.6048 per dollar.  Slower world growth is driving down commodities prices and
curbing inflation expectations in Brazil. Economic activity, a
proxy for gross domestic product, fell 0.26 percent in June from
the previous month, according to a report published yesterday by
the central bank. The contraction was greater than the median
forecast of a 0.05 percent decline in a Bloomberg survey.  Job growth in July was lower than all 10 forecasts in a
Bloomberg survey of economists. Industrial production fell 1.6
percent in June, the second-biggest drop in output since 2008,
and business confidence in the second quarter fell to its lowest
level since 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Ragir in  Rio De Janeiro  at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net  