-- 
Homebuilder Bond Slump Means Buy to Scotia on Calderon Bet: Mexico Credit

-- B y   B r y a n   G i b e l   a n d   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 
2011-08-18T11:49:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/homebuilder-bond-slump-means-buy-to-scotia-on-calderon-bet-mexico-credit.html
Mexican homebuilders’ bond yields
are rising as much as four times faster than that of corporate
peers, prompting Citigroup Inc. and  Scotia Capital  to recommend
buying the debt as a bet subsidies will help the companies
weather slowing growth.  The yield on dollar bonds due in 2020 sold by Urbi
Desarrollos Urbanos SAB, Mexico’s third-biggest homebuilder,
jumped 87 basis points this month to 8.29 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Mexican companies’ borrowing costs
rose 10 basis points, or 0.1 percentage point, during the same
period to 6.33 percent, JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes show.
Emerging-market corporate bond yields climbed 10 basis points.  The slump in the bonds is overdone because homebuilders
will benefit from President Felipe Calderon’s plan to reduce
housing shortages, making them less vulnerable to swings in the
economy, said Joe Kogan, a credit analyst at Scotia Capital.
About 8.9 million families in  Mexico  are either without homes or
living in substandard dwellings, according to Sociedad
Hipotecaria Federal. State agency Infonavit finances about 70
percent of Mexico’s mortgages.  “People are worried about growth in the U.S. and how all
that will spill over into Mexico,” Kogan said in a telephone
interview in New York. “But I don’t see why that affects in any
way the ability of these homebuilders to sell houses to low-
income people that are financed by the Mexican government.”  Growth Outlook  Yields on notes due 2019 issued by Desarrolladora Homex
SAB, Mexico’s biggest homebuilder, rose 65 basis points this
month to 8.68 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The yield on similar-maturity notes from Corp. Geo SAB, the
second-biggest homebuilder, surged 89 basis points to 8.86
percent. Mexican government notes due 2020 rallied during that
period, pushing down yields 26 basis points to 3.43 percent.  Yields on high-yield bonds issued by global homebuilders
and real estate companies climbed 110 basis points this month to
9.25 percent, according to Bank of America Corp. index data.  Weakening demand from the U.S., the destination for 80
percent of Mexico’s exports, prompted Credit Suisse Group AG,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Bank of America Corp. to cut their
growth forecasts for  Latin America ’s second-biggest economy this
month. The central bank said Aug. 10 that the economy will
expand as much as 4.8 percent this year, down from a previous
forecast of up to 5 percent growth.  Infonavit plans to issue a record 515,000 home loans this
year, Chief Executive Officer Victor Borras said in March. Home
loans in Mexico grew 6.2 percent in 2010, he said in January.
The agency has financed 280,000 so far this year, spokesman
Armando Balmori said in a telephone interview from Mexico City.  ‘Investment Opportunity’  “What really drives the growth of these companies is the
ability of Infonavit to fund mortgages,” Eric Ollom, a credit
strategist at Citigroup, said in a telephone interview in  New
York . “The fundamentals for the sector remain positive.”  Homex’s  net income  climbed 9.7 percent to 473 million pesos
in the second quarter as housing prices picked up in Mexico and
the company’s revenue in  Brazil  climbed.  The company’s debt is “an investment opportunity because
of the returns it offers investors after the global markets’
sell-off,” Homex Chief Financial Officer Carlos Moctezuma said
in an e-mailed response to questions.  Corp. Geo, based in Mexico City, reported a 0.8 percent
increase in second-quarter  net income  to 390.4 million. A
company official declined to comment yesterday.  Urbi Desarrollos, based in Mexicali, Mexico, reported
second-quarter net income  rose  52 percent to 659 million pesos.
Sales climbed to 3.87 billion pesos, Urbi said in a filing to
Mexico’s stock exchange.  ‘High-Growth Industry’  “We’re going to be a high-growth industry for the coming
years,” Antonio Jorge, a Mexico City-based investor relations
officer with Urbi, said in a telephone interview. “The housing
deficit is enormous. The demand for housing is practically
guaranteed.”  Juan Carlos Moreno, a debt portfolio manager at Grupo
Financiero Interacciones SA, said he’s shunning homebuilder
bonds because slowing growth will curb investor demand for
higher-yielding assets and crimps the government’s ability to
finance construction.  “There’s not going to be investor appetite for these bonds
because if eventually construction goes down and governments run
out of money, no one is going to hire these types of
companies,” Moreno said in a telephone interview from Mexico
City. “Do I recommend these bonds? No, not at all.”  Peso Gains  The yield on futures contracts for March 2013, known as
TIIE, climbed 2 basis points to 4.99 percent yesterday,
indicating traders expect the central bank will hike the key
lending rate from a record low 4.5 percent that month.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries rose 5 basis points to
175 at 7:47 a.m. New York time, according to JP Morgan’s Global
EMBI index for the country.  The peso dropped 1 percent to 12.2938 per  U.S. dollar .  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years fell four points to 137, according to data provider
CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted
by dealers in the privately negotiated market. Credit-default
swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent if a government or company
fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  Homebuilders’ growth potential makes the bonds attractive,
according to Cornel Bruhin, who helps oversee about $4 billion
of emerging-market assets, including Homex bonds, at Zurich-
based Clariden Leu AG.  “There’s a relatively young population in Mexico,” Bruhin
said in a telephone interview. “There’s a structural need for
housing in Mexico.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bryan Gibel in New York at 
 bgibel@bloomberg.net ;
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  