-- 
London Police Arrest 13th Person in News Corp. Phone-Hacking Investigation

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-08-18T17:41:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/london-police-arrest-13th-person-in-news-corp-phone-hacking-investigation.html
James Desborough, a former Hollywood
reporter for the now-shuttered News of the World newspaper, was
arrested by  London  police investigating phone-hacking, according
to a person familiar with the probe.  Desborough, 38, is the 13th person detained since police
renewed a probe this year to determine if the practice extended
beyond a former royal reporter and a private investigator who
were jailed in 2007 for intercepting voice mails. Desborough
started at the tabloid in 2005 and began a role as an editor in
the U.S. in April 2009, according to the person, who didn’t want
to be identified because they weren’t authorized to discuss the
matter publicly.  London’s  Metropolitan Police  said in an e-mailed statement
that they arrested a 38-year-old man, who they declined to
identify, by appointment today “on suspicion of conspiring to
unlawfully intercept voice mails.” A separate statement said the
man was later released on bail.  Public outcry over the hacking scandal, including claims
journalists accessed the voice mail of a murdered schoolgirl for
stories, led News Corp. to close the News of the World and end
its 7.8 billion-pound ($12.9 billion) bid to buy the 61 percent
of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  it doesn’t already own.  “We are fully cooperating with the police investigation
and we are unable to comment further on matters due to ongoing
police investigations,” News International, the New York-based
company’s U.K. newspapers unit, said in an e-mailed statement.  Efforts to find contact details for Desborough or a lawyer
representing him were unsuccessful.  Ties to Tabloid  At least nine of the 13 people arrested in investigations
of phone hacking and bribes to police have ties to the News of
the World, including former editor Rebekah Brooks, who resigned
July 15 as chief executive officer of News Corp.’s News
International unit.  Andy Coulson , another former editor of the
tabloid, was arrested last month, after resigning in January as
British Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s spokesman.  Documents and statements released by the U.K. Parliament
this week in the  News Corp. (NWSA)  phone-hacking scandal contradicted
testimony given by company executives, including deputy chief
operating officer  James Murdoch , on how much they knew about the
illegal practices and when.  Clive Goodman , the former royal reporter, made accusations
in a 2007 letter that hacking was widespread at News of the
World, editors discussed it during meetings and that he was
promised his job back if he didn’t reveal the problem to  law
enforcement .  Confidential Settlement  The evidence may result in Murdoch being recalled to
Parliament to answer more questions about a confidential
settlement he approved with one of the first known hacking
victims, according to a statement issued by the Culture, Media
and Sport Committee, which is investigating the scandal.  The information prompted lawmakers to request further
statements from several executives, including Les Hinton, who
had led News Corp.’s U.K. publishing unit and recently resigned
as publisher and CEO of Dow Jones & Co.  Glenn Mulcaire , the private investigator who was jailed
along with Goodman for voice-mail interception sued a News Corp.
unit in London yesterday. The details of Mulcaire’s case aren’t
publicly available under British law until the company files a
response acknowledging the suit.  News Corp. Chief Executive Officer  Rupert Murdoch  along
with James told U.K. lawmakers last month they didn’t know if
the company was still paying legal fees for Mulcaire. The
company said the next day they would immediately terminate “any
arrangement” to pay Mulcaire’s bills.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jonathan Browning  at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net . 