-- 
Chef Wolfgang Puck Hangs With Stars, Picks London Over New York

-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 
2011-08-18T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/top-chef-puck-keeps-cool-hangs-with-stars-chooses-london-over-new-york.html
Lunch with Wolfgang Puck in the
garden at Spago  Beverly Hills  was never going to be private.  The multimillionaire chef is friends with many of the
customers and I watch him make his way from group to group,
engaging in conversations rather than just shaking hands.  When he finally reaches my table and eases himself into a
chair, shaded by century-old trees, a glass of chilled
Chardonnay in front of him, the manager whispers in his ear.  “Sorry, Sidney Poitier wants a word,” Austrian-born Puck
says, and he’s off again to chat with the veteran actor.  I’m in Los Angeles to spend a day with Puck, 62, who will
open his first restaurant in  Europe , CUT, at  45 Park Lane , in
London on Sept. 1. The encounter turns out to cover two days as
we drive around  Los Angeles  in Puck’s black Cadillac Escalade,
visiting a fish supplier downtown, CUT at the Beverly Wilshire
and the site of his new restaurant at the  Hotel Bel-Air .  If you don’t know Puck -- and he’s not a huge name in
Europe -- it’s difficult to imagine the scale of his business
empire, and his celebrity, in the U.S. He owns about 20 fine-
dining restaurants, from Washington D.C. (where President  Barack Obama  took First Lady Michelle in January to celebrate her
birthday) to  Las Vegas  and he’s known for his Oscar parties.  “We’re going to expand our fine-dining restaurants,” Puck
says in his Austrian-accented English. “We have some talks with
people in the Middle East, and also we want to expand in  Asia .
We opened in  Singapore  very successfully so, hopefully, the next
place will be  Hong Kong  and maybe  Shanghai .  N.Y., Miami  “On the other hand, we didn’t open in  New York  yet, we
didn’t open in Miami yet. So we also still have spaces here and,
if the deal is right, we’ll consider it. Except, we can’t do it
over the next year because we have our plates full.”  He also owns about 50  Wolfgang Puck Express  venues, mainly
in airports. Then there’s the catering division: Think parties
for the  Oscars  and the  Emmys . His ranges of pizzas, soups,
sauces and coffees are sold in stores alongside cookware,
appliances, pots and pans and cutlery on  the Shopping Channel .  So what’s his business worth?  “We’re doing about $400 million in business,” he says.
“We did $70 million for our fine-dining restaurants in the
first six months and the same thing in catering.”  Puck lives in Beverly Hills with his wife, the Ethiopian-
born designer, Gelila Assefa, and their two young sons. (He has
two other sons by his previous marriage to Barbara Lazaroff.)  Income Estimate  We meet at 7:45 a.m. in Spago. He’s dressed in blue jeans
and a T-shirt. Only the  Panerai  watch and the perfect Hollywood
teeth hint at his wealth. Forbes in 2008  estimated his annual
income  at $16 million. He says Forbes never asked him. I do and
he doesn’t answer. Oh well.  A Bloomberg TV crew joins us as he drives downtown to
 International Marine Products . We cluster round as Puck prods
Alaskan salmon, checks out South African tuna and grapples with
Santa Barbara shrimps. Later, we drive to CUT to deliver them.  Puck chats easily about himself, from the work he’s had
done on his teeth to how he bought his Ray-Bans at a  Middle East 
airport in the middle of the night.  Oprah Winfrey , Maria Shriver, Michael Caine,  Elton John ,
Tom Cruise, Joan Collins, Jay-Z, Mary J. Blige,  Gordon Ramsay ,
Nobu Matsuhisa, the names drop thick and fast, but that’s his
life. He has been rubbing shoulders with A-listers for 30 years.  It wasn’t always so. He was born to a mining family in
Unterbergen, St. Veit, such a modest place that his address was
simply Unterbergen No. 11, without a street name.  Road to Cooking  His father was a heavy drinker and it was his mother who
set him on the road to cooking at the age of 14. Life was hard
and he left south  Austria  for Paris to train before heading to
the U.S., aged 24.  Decades later, he gave his parents the full VIP treatment
when they visited. His father was a fan of “Dallas” and Puck
took him to the set without explaining where they were going.  “That’s JR,” his father exclaimed in surprise, “and
there’s Sue Ellen.” The actors all signed a cowboy hat for him
that he would show off back in his local bar.  You can see the pride Puck feels in his achievements.  “Not bad for a little cook from Austria,” he says.  CUT, 45 Park Lane,  London , W1K 1QA. Information:
 http://www.45parklane.com/dining-restaurant  or +44-20-7493-4554.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the  World’s 50 Best Restaurants  awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in Los Angeles at  rvines@bloomberg.net  
or Richardvines on  http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 