-- 
OPEC to Cut Exports as U.S. Demand Declines, Oil Movements Says

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-08-18T15:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/opec-to-cut-exports-as-u-s-demand-declines-oil-movements-says.html
The Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries will trim shipments by 0.5 percent this
month as U.S. demand declines while refiners perform seasonal
maintenance, according to tanker-tracker Oil Movements.  Exports will drop to 22.63 million barrels a day in the
four weeks to Sept. 3, the Halifax, England-based researcher
said today in a report. That compares with 22.75 million barrels
in the month to Aug. 6. The data excludes  Ecuador  and Angola.
Sailings from the Persian Gulf to the U.S. and  Europe  are below
year-earlier levels for the first time this year, according to
the company.  “In September we’re moving into the North American
maintenance season and demand is weak,” Roy Mason, Oil
Movements’ founder, said by telephone. “Sailings aren’t
dramatically down because there’s some support from the east,
but they’re certainly down.”  Shipments from Middle Eastern producers, including non-OPEC
members Oman and Yemen, will be 0.7 percent lower at 17.33
million barrels a day in the four weeks to Sept. 3, according to
Oil Movements estimates.  Crude on board tankers will average 467.07 million barrels
in the four-week period, down 2.3 percent from 477.83 million in
the period to Sept. 3, the researcher said.  Oil Movements calculates shipments by keeping a tally of
tanker-rental agreements. Its figures exclude crude held on
board ships as floating storage.  OPEC’s members are Algeria, Angola, Ecuador,  Iran , Iraq,
Kuwait,  Libya , Nigeria, Qatar,  Saudi Arabia , the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela. The organization will meet next on Dec.
14 in Vienna.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  