-- 
Oracle’s Ellison Says America’s Cup Rules Will Cut Costs, Improve Racing

-- B y   J o a o   L i m a   a n d   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 
2011-08-18T15:30:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/oracle-s-ellison-says-america-s-cup-rules-will-cut-costs-improve-racing.html
The cost of racing in the  34th
America’s Cup  off  San Francisco  in 2013 may be less that what it
was the last time more than two entrants contested the 159-year-
old yachting trophy, even as the rules mandate faster, state-of-
the-art boats that will produce better competition.  Russell Coutts, chief executive of defending-champion
Oracle Racing and a four-time Cup winner, said in an interview
in Cascais,  Portugal , that a 60 million-euro ($86 million)
campaign would be “very, very competitive” and 30 million
euros would produce a “budget team.” Oracle spent more than
$100 million in the 2007 Cup, while China Team had the lowest
budget at 14 million euros.  At the same time, racing 72-foot catamarans, powered by
130-foot (40-meter) wing sails at speeds exceeding 30 knots,
will produce more even competition where sailing skill will
matter more than boat design, according to  Larry Ellison , chief
executive of  Redwood City , California-based software maker
 Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  and the yachting team’s founder.  “While there might be little differences in the boats,
there aren’t going to be these major design differences,”
Ellison said to reporters Aug. 14. “So I think the boats are
going to be pretty close from an engineering standpoint and it’s
going to be up to the sailors and crew to get them around the
racecourse and win the races.”  Ellison campaigned unsuccessfully for the Cup in 2003 and
2007. He and his team won the right to choose the next venue and
set the rules after capturing yachting’s “Auld Mug” off
Valencia,  Spain , in February 2010 in an unusual two-boat, best-
of-three series against the Alinghi syndicate owned by Swiss
billionaire Ernesto Bertarelli.  Legal Fight  The San Francisco regatta will mark a departure from that
series, where Oracle sailed a 90-foot  trimaran  with a 223-foot
carbon-fiber wing sail against Alinghi’s  catamaran . The showdown
came after a two-year court fight between Oracle and Alinghi
over the rules that ostracized previous challengers from
countries including  South Africa ,  Italy  and New Zealand; scared
off sponsors like Banco Santander SA, UBS AG and  Nestle SA (NESN) ; and
shrank the organizing budget to $11.1 million (8 million euros
at the time) from a record 230 million euros in 2007.  The sailors were in Cascais for the America’s Cup World
Series, a circuit of regattas combining fleet and one-on-one
match racing that helps teams prepare for the America’s Cup in
2013 and promotes that competition.  The boats raced in Cascais and other America’s Cup World
Series events are nearly identical 800,000-euro, 45-foot
catamarans, built by New Zealand-based Core Builders Composites
Ltd. Competing in the AC45 series is an operation costing
between 1.6 million euros and 2 million euros in the first year,
according to Paul Cayard, CEO of the Swedish team Artemis Racing
and a former America’s Cup skipper.  Design Differences  “In San Francisco, each team will have designed their own
boat, so there’ll be some performance differences due to
design,” Cayard said in an Aug. 13 interview. “But the type of
racing we’re going to be doing, which is very short, means that
the boat also has to be reliable and maneuverable. Whatever
enhancement the boat has, has to be usable in that short period
of time.”  Dean Barker, skipper for Emirates Team  New Zealand , said
that technology and engineering still will be critical to the
winning team.  “It’s more likely that one boat will have some sort of
performance advantage,” he said. “There is certainly the
potential there that the racing could be decided by design.”  In San Francisco, challengers will race in the Louis
Vuitton series for the right to face Oracle for the Cup.  U.S. Return  Ellison’s victory over Alinghi brought the Cup back to the
U.S. for the first time since Dennis Conner’s Young America lost
to New Zealand in 1995.  The Cup is named for the schooner “America,” which
defeated a fleet of British yachts off the Isle of Wight in 1851
to capture the 100 Guinea Cup,  deeding  it as a perpetual trophy
to promote “friendly competition between foreign countries.”  The  New York Yacht Club  defended the Cup off  New York  from
1870 until 1920, before moving the regatta in 1930 to Newport,
 Rhode Island , where it remained until 1983. That year,  Australia 
II beat Conner’s Liberty in seven races to end the New York
club’s 132-year hold on the trophy. Conner recaptured it off
Fremantle, Australia, in 1987 with Stars and Stripes.  The event has since been held in  San Diego , Auckland and
 Valencia , though it has never featured a fleet of multihull
boats capable of these speeds.  “In the old days, if you won the start, you usually led
the race from start to finish,” Ellison said in Cascais.
“That’s not the case with these boats. There’s a lot of passing
and a lot of opportunity to make a comeback, and I think that’s
what people want to see.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
5697 or  akuriloff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 