-- 
Morgan Stanley Names Reza to Head Prime Brokerage in Asia

-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 
2011-08-18T09:10:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/morgan-stanley-s-mehdee-to-head-prime-brokerage-in-asia.html
Morgan Stanley (MS) , ranked by Global
Custodian magazine as the second-largest prime broker worldwide,
named Mehdee Reza as Asia head of the business that provides
services to hedge funds.  Reza, currently Hong Kong-based head of Asian generalist
cash sales at the New York-based bank, will take up the new job
in late September, Morgan Stanley confirmed in an e-mailed
response to a Bloomberg News query.  Global investors added $2.6 billion to hedge funds focused
on Asia, pushing regional industry assets to $89.5 billion at
the end of the second quarter, a post-2007 high, according to
Chicago-based data provider Hedge Fund Research Inc.  Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. each had 179
hedge fund mandates in  Asia  with the former’s estimated $23.4
billion of client assets closing gap with Goldman Sachs’ $23.7
billion, said an AsiaHedge survey published in May.  In his new role, Reza will take charge of prime brokerage
sales, capital introduction and client services in the region
which includes Japan and  Australia , the e-mail said. Prime
brokers’ capital introduction teams link hedge funds with
potential investors.  Reza will report to Alex Ehrlich, Morgan Stanley’s global
head of prime brokerage in  New York , and to Ed Sisterson,
regional head of equity financing products in Hong Kong, the e-
mail said.  Global Franchise  Reza joined Morgan Stanley’s London office as a generalist
sale person in 2005 after a stint as a partner of an
unidentified London-based hedge fund, according to the e-mail.
He had spent eight years with Credit Suisse Group AG in  Hong
Kong  before that, heading the regional banks research team, it
added.  Morgan Stanley’s Asian prime brokerage business is “a
critical part of our growing global franchise,” Ehrlich said in
the e-mail. “Mehdee’s wealth of experience in Asia and
specifically with Asian hedge funds will help ensure we continue
to offer the very best services to our global and regional
client base.”  Morgan Stanley commanded nearly 12 percent of the global
prime brokerage market by assets, second to Goldman Sachs’ 13
percent, with Credit Suisse and Deutsche Bank AG trailing by
about 1 percentage point, according to the  survey  by Global
Custodian released in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in  Singapore  
 nismail3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  