-- 
Morgan Stanley, Deutsche Bank Cut Forecasts for China Growth

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-18T02:22:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/morgan-stanley-cuts-2012-china-growth-estimate-to-8-7-.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Deutsche Bank AG
cut estimates for  China ’s economic growth as the debt burdens
and elevated unemployment of developed nations threaten demand
for exports.  Morgan Stanley cut a forecast for next year to 8.7 percent
from 9 percent, in an e-mailed note today. Deutsche Bank lowered
a prediction for this year to 8.9 percent from 9.1 percent, in a
report yesterday.  China’s trade growth will slow in the second half and
fiscal tightening in Western nations means their demand will
wane, Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  said yesterday in Hong Kong.
The nation is the world’s biggest exporter and the largest
contributor to the global economic expansion.  “Europe’s slow and inadequate response to sovereign
stress” and the prospect of more fiscal tightening in  Europe 
and the U.S. will limit growth in developed nations, Morgan
Stanley analysts including Chetan Ahya wrote in the note.
“Emerging markets including China are unlikely to stay
completely unaffected from these developments.”  The Shanghai Composite Index fell for a third day, slipping
0.2 percent as of 10:06 a.m. local time.  China’s economy expanded 9.5 percent in the second quarter
from 9.7 percent in the first three months of this year,
maintaining momentum even after the government raised  interest
rates  and stepped up curbs on the housing market. Companies from
Volkswagen AG to McDonald’s Corp. are relying on sales in the 
world’s fastest-growing major economy.  Morgan Stanley left its 2011 growth forecast unchanged at 9
percent.  China may rely more on fiscal policy than monetary measures
to support growth, Morgan Stanley economists said. Fiscal boosts
may include support for social housing construction and
incentives for  consumer spending , they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  