-- 
Morgan Stanley Cuts Global Growth Forecast With U.S. ‘Close’ to Recession

-- B y   P a u l   P a n c k h u r s t
-- 
2011-08-18T09:17:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/morgan-stanley-lowers-global-growth-forecast.html
Morgan Stanley cut its forecast for
global growth this year, citing an “insufficient” policy
response to  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis, weakened confidence
and the prospect of fiscal tightening.  The bank estimates expansion of 3.9 percent, down from a
previous forecast of 4.2 percent, according to an e-mailed
report dated today. Morgan Stanley cut its  China  growth forecast
for next year and Deutsche Bank AG reduced its estimates for the
nation for 2011 and 2012.  The threat to the global economy from the debt burdens of
developed nations from the U.S. to Europe has roiled world
markets this month and wiped trillions of dollars off the value
of equities. At the same time, slowing expansions in countries
including  Germany , the key driver of European growth, are
hurting confidence.  The U.S. and Europe are “dangerously close to
recession,” Morgan Stanley analysts including Chetan Ahya said
in the note. “Recent policy errors, especially Europe’s slow
and insufficient response to the sovereign crisis and the drama
around lifting the U.S. debt ceiling, have weighed down on
financial markets and eroded business and consumer confidence.”  The MSCI All-Country World Index slid 0.7 percent to 305.64
as of 4:24 p.m. in  Hong Kong , set for the steepest drop since
Aug. 10.  ‘Stagnating’ Economies  In the euro area, “broadly stagnating” growth later this
year and in early 2012 will mean that “it won’t take much to
tip the balance towards recession, especially as a final
resolution of the debt crisis -- in the form of fiscal transfers
or common bond issuance -- is likely to be very slow in
coming,” the Morgan Stanley economists wrote.  The bank cut an estimate for China’s growth next year to
8.7 percent from 9 percent. Deutsche Bank trimmed a prediction
for this year to 8.9 percent from 9.1 percent, and a forecast
for 2012 to 8.3 percent from 8.6 percent, in a report dated
yesterday.  “In the near term, the single most important shock to the
Chinese economy will be the likely slowdown -- or even recession
-- of the EU and U.S. economies,” Deutsche Bank economist  Ma
Jun  said in a note.  Hong Kong will have a “shallow recession” with the
economy contracting in the third quarter from the previous three
months after already shrinking in the second quarter, Morgan
Stanley said in another e-mailed note today.  “Western demand will shrink as they need to tighten their
fiscal policies,” Chinese Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  said in
Hong Kong yesterday.  Merkel, Sarkozy  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  this week ruled out steps such as the issuance
of euro bonds or expanding a bailout fund to counter the
European debt crisis. Pacific Investment Management Co., the
world’s biggest bond fund manager, said that European
politicians should let Greece, Ireland and Portugal default
while taking steps to ensure Italy and  Spain  won’t.  Morgan Stanley cut its estimate for growth in the Group of
10 nations to 1.5 percent this year and next, down from previous
forecasts of 1.9 percent in 2011 and 2.4 percent in 2012,
today’s report showed.  “A negative feedback loop between weak growth and soggy
asset markets now appears to be in the making in Europe and the
U.S.,” the analysts said. “This should be aggravated by the
prospect of fiscal tightening in the U.S. and Europe.”  France ’s growth stalled in the second quarter, while the
German economy gained 0.1 percent from the first quarter. In the
U.S., the  Federal Reserve  has pledged to keep  interest rates  at
a record low through mid-2013, indicating that the world’s
biggest economy will continue to need support.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  