-- 
Los Angeles Firefighter in City Council Contest Is Among Nation’s Top-Paid

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   R o d n e y   Y a p
-- 
2011-08-18T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/los-angeles-firefighter-in-city-council-contest-is-among-nation-s-top-paid.html
The  Los Angeles  labor leader who
represents the highest-paid firefighters in the U.S. is running
for the City Council on a pledge to preserve public-safety
spending even as the city faces $911 million in deficits during
the next four years.  Pat McOsker , 51, president of the  United Firefighters of
Los Angeles City  since 2003, set the fastest pace for campaign
contributions among 18 candidates and is endorsed by four of the
biggest public-worker unions for a  special election  to fill an
open seat Nov. 8.  The nation’s second-largest city wrestled with deficits of
about $500 million this year and the preceding one, and will be
short a total of $911 million through 2016, according to budget
documents. The police and fire departments accounted for 69
percent of unrestricted spending last year.  “It is vital that we protect public safety,” McOsker said
in declaring his candidacy last month. “I will fight any cuts
to police and fire protection and work to bring long-needed
reforms to  City Hall .”  Los Angeles firefighters made an average of $126,258 last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, more than twice
the national mean. Fifty-three of the city’s 100 top-paid
employees in 2010 were firefighters. Each collected more than
the $195,869 earned by Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa. In an
interview, McOsker said his pay was $145,000.  The mean wage for the nation’s 302,000 salaried
firefighters was  $47,730  in 2010, according to the  U.S. Bureau
of Labor Statistics . In the Los Angeles metropolitan area, which
includes other cities as well as county employees, the figure
was $95,000. That compared with $57,360 in the Chicago area,
$51,710 in  Boston  and $66,800 in metropolitan  New York .  Overtime Pay  Los Angeles firefighters collect a greater share of
overtime pay than other public employees because staffing rules
require replacements for those who are sick or on vacation,
according to Maritta Aspen, who negotiates with public-safety
unions in the city manager’s office.  “This has been going on for years,” said Kris Vosburgh,
executive director of the Los Angeles-based Howard Jarvis
Taxpayers Association, which advocates for lower taxes. “The
public-employee unions are the most powerful force in state and
local politics. No politician wants to stand up to them, so they
continue this gravy train.”  The City Council has taken steps to reduce fire department
expenses, including eliminating 318 positions to save $190
million in the next three years, according to budget documents.  Firefighter Ratio  Los Angeles’s 3,460 firefighters are required to work
overtime, some punching the clock as much as 75 hours per week,
while firefighters nationally average 48, McOsker said in a
telephone interview. Los Angeles has just under one firefighter
for every 1,000 residents. The national average in 2009 was 1.72
career firefighters per thousand, according to the National Fire
Protection Association.  “We’re dangerously understaffed,” McOsker said.  The son of a firefighter from the blue-collar Los Angeles
neighborhood of  San Pedro , McOsker has a brother, Mike, who is a
retired firefighter and the union’s business representative.
Another brother, Tim, served as chief of staff to the previous
mayor, James Hahn.  Four of Los Angeles’s six largest public employee unions
have endorsed McOsker’s campaign, according to Barbara Maynard,
a spokeswoman for the  Coalition of Los Angeles City Unions . He
was the first of  18 candidates  to reach $50,000 in
contributions, according to the city’s ethics commission.
McOsker said most of the money came from individual donors.  Recall Attempt  McOsker is not beloved by all of his fellow firefighters,
some of whom launched an unsuccessful attempt to recall him as
union president this year, according to Ron Harmon, a 50-year-
old captain who says he started in the same class as the
candidate.  McOsker’s tough stance in negotiations over department
funding has alienated City Council members, residents and some
firefighters, Harmon said.  “This is a guy who is firmly stuck in the early 20th
century, being truly antagonistic to anyone who disagrees with
him,” Harmon said in a telephone interview. “We don’t live in
a vacuum. There was not a sense of responsibility to the guy on
the street, the taxpayer.”  Firefighters have made contract concessions by skipping pay
raises, lowering pension benefits for new hires and contributing
2 percent of their salaries toward health care in retirement,
McOsker said.  “Our pay has stayed stagnant, we’ve made sacrifices, we’re
helping the city get through the crisis,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Rodney Yap in Los Angeles at 
 ryap@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  