-- 
Overseas Banks Seen Cutting Dollar Holdings Amid Funding Drought

-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 
2011-08-18T16:49:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/overseas-banks-may-have-cut-dollar-holdings-on-money-squeeze-nomura-says.html
Overseas banks operating in the U.S.
may have cut their dollar holdings by about $339 billion in the
past four weeks as European banks face a squeeze on funding.  The figure may have dropped by about 38 percent to $550
billion in the period,  Jens Nordvig , a managing director of
currency research at Nomura Holdings Inc. in New York said
today. Banks had an average cash buffer of about $50 billion
before the 2008 crisis and about $400 billion in 2010, he said.  “The crisis we have now is very serious, and comes from
concerns about European banks exposure to European sovereigns,”
Nordvig said in a telephone interview. “I’m not expecting an
imminent dollar shortage, but if you extrapolate this trend then
this means that in two to four weeks there will be one.”  European bank stocks tumbled the most in more than two
years today on concern firms lack sufficient capital and are
struggling to borrow in debt markets. The Bloomberg  Europe  500
Banks and Financial Services Index fell 6.7 percent, the most
since March 2009. The European Central Bank yesterday provided a
bank six-month dollar funding for the first time since February.  “The fact that the swap lines were tapped for the first
time yesterday shows that the funding squeeze is now hurting
some euro zone entities to a degree where they are willing to
pay a 100 basis-point premium for dollar funds,” Nordvig said.
A basis point is one hundredth of a percentage point.  U.S. regulators are stepping up scrutiny of local
operations for Europe’s largest banks on concern that the
region’s sovereign debt crisis may lead to funding problems, the
Wall Street Journal reported earlier today.  ‘Always Scrutinizing’  Federal Reserve Bank of  New York  President William C.
Dudley today said the central bank always keeps an eye on the
performance of U.S. and foreign banks, and isn’t monitoring one
group more than the other.  The Fed is “always scrutinizing” domestic and foreign
banks in terms of capital levels, Dudley, 58, said in response
to audience questions after a speech in  Newark ,  New Jersey .
“This is standard operating procedure,” he said. “We’re not
focusing on foreign banks any more than U.S. banks.”  “It makes good sense to play close attention to what is
happening in the inter-bank and funding markets because that can
serve as an early warning sign for future problems,” said
Jeffrey Caughron, a partner at Baker Group LP in  Oklahoma City 
who advises community banks on investments of more than $30
billion.  Dexia, Citigroup  Dexia SA, Belgium’s biggest bank by assets, fell 14 percent
to 1.57 euros in the largest drop since March 2009. Citigroup,
the third-largest  U.S. bank , dropped 7.4 percent to $27.63,
making it today’s worst performer in the KBW Bank Index of U.S.
firms.  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA, France’s second-largest bank, sank 12
percent in Paris, while  Barclays Plc (BARC)  slid 11 percent in  London .
The KBW index slid 4.9 percent to 36.84. Regions Financial
Corp., Alabama’s largest bank, led U.S. regional banks lower,
falling 6.4 percent to $4.25. Bank of America Corp., the
nation’s biggest lender, declined 5.8 percent to $7.03.  The cost of insuring the senior bonds of European banks
against default is now higher than when Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. collapsed. The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of credit-
default swaps linked to 25 banks and insurers soared more than
37 percent from July 28 to as much as 237 basis points today,
according to CMA in London. The gauge was at 149 when Lehman
folded in September 2008, before peaking at 211 in March 2009.  “There is a mistrust between banks in general, between
regions and with dollar providers overall,” said  Christoph Rieger , head of fixed-income strategy at  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  in
 Frankfurt . Still “I don’t see the situation as dire as it was
back in 2008 due to all the central bank liquidity backstops in
place.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  