-- 
Hewlett-Packard to Buy Autonomy for $10.3 Billion, Weighs PC Unit Spinoff

-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n ,   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-08-18T23:05:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/hp-said-to-be-near-10-billion-autonomy-takeover-spinoff-of-pc-business.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  is planning a
sweeping overhaul of its businesses, agreeing to buy Autonomy
Corp. for $10.3 billion and weighing a breakup that would
unravel the much-debated Compaq Computer Corp. purchase.  Shareholders of Autonomy, which develops search software,
will receive $42.11 a share,  Palo Alto , California-based 
Hewlett-Packard said in a statement. That's 64 percent more 
than Autonomy’s close yesterday. Hewlett-Packard, whose shares
fell after the company issued forecasts that missed estimates,
also said it’s considering spinning off its PC division and 
that it will discontinue products that run WebOS software.  Chief Executive Officer  Leo Apotheker , who took the helm at
Hewlett-Packard in November, is lessening the company’s reliance
on PCs as consumer demand wanes and Apple Inc. lures buyers to
its iPad. He’s also expanding in so-called cloud services, which
help customers handle computing tasks over the Internet.  “Their focus is on being more of a software and services
company and not dependent on the hardware businesses,” said
 Michael Gartenberg , an analyst at Stamford, Connecticut-based
Gartner Inc. “The hardware business has become a difficult
business. In many ways it’s a commodity-driven business. This is
a major strategic shift for HP.”  By discontinuing WebOS products, Apotheker is backtracking
on a strategy he announced just five months ago to put WebOS
software on every Hewlett-Packard computer. The operating system
runs the company’s TouchPad tablet and a range of smartphones.  Former CEO Carly Fiorina acquired Compaq in 2002 for $17.6
billion, making Hewlett-Packard the world’s biggest seller of
PCs. Fiorina won shareholder approval for the deal after a proxy
fight that pitted her against heirs of the company’s founders.  ‘Anchor’ on Earnings  “This is clearly a financial decision on their part to
abandon a business that wasn’t generating nearly enough
margins,” said Mark Margevicius, a Gartner analyst based in
 Cleveland . “It’s the boat anchor that’s keeping things at
bay.”  Hewlett-Packard’s results have suffered amid diminishing
consumer demand for PCs. Sales in the current period will be
$32.1 billion to $32.5 billion, Hewlett-Packard said in a
statement today. That missed the average $34 billion estimate of
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The company also forecast
earnings that fell short of estimates.  Hewlett-Packard shares fell $1.88, or 6 percent, to $29.51
at 4 p.m. on the New York Stock Exchange. The shares have
declined 30 percent this year.  Autonomy Rallies  Autonomy, based in Cambridge, England, gives Hewlett-
Packard software that searches a broad range of data, including
e-mails, music, video and posts on social networks such as
Facebook Inc.  The company’s U.S.-traded shares rallied 45 percent to $37,
their biggest gain since 2001. The shares had declined 8.3
percent to 1,429 pence in  London , where markets closed before
news of the takeover talks.  “For HP it’s an intriguing volte-face,” said Tim Daniels,
a strategist at Olivetree Securities Ltd. in London. “Autonomy
is a leader in unstructured data -- so that’s data that isn’t in
the form of spreadsheets or word documents.”  Hewlett-Packard executives and directors talked about
spinning off the company’s PC business as long as seven years
ago, according to a person familiar with the situation. That
discussion abated for several years after former CEO  Mark Hurd 
brought in  Todd Bradley  to run the business, and especially
after the company’s earnings improved, the person said.  Shortly before Hurd was ousted as CEO in 2010, he told some
board members and executives that he wanted to discuss a
possible spinoff of some of Hewlett-Packard’s hardware
businesses, including the PC unit, according to the person.  Software Roots  The shift underscores Apotheker’s background in software.
Before coming to Hewlett-Packard, he worked for more than two
decades at German software maker SAP AG, including a stint as
sole CEO in 2009 and 2010.  Autonomy, the second-largest U.K. software maker, offers
programs used in database search. The company’s customers
include  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) ,  Nestle SA (NESN)  and the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  Autonomy CEO Mike Lynch, who founded the company in 1996,
owns about 8 percent of the stock, Bloomberg data shows. At
25.50 pounds a share, Lynch’s 19.8 million shares of Autonomy
are worth 504.9 million pounds, or $834 million. Lynch, speaking
in a June 21 interview, said U.K. software companies are cheaper
than their U.S. counterparts.  Sage Group Plc is the biggest British  software company  in
terms of revenue.  Palm, WebOS  Hewlett-Packard is abandoning the mobile software it
acquired in last year’s purchase of smartphone maker Palm Inc.
amid disappointing sales of the tablets that run WebOS,
Apotheker said in an interview today. Fixing WebOS would have
taken capital that could be better used elsewhere, he said.  The company is “looking at its options” in the smartphone
market, he said.  Hewlett-Packard will record a one-time charge of about $1
billion in the fiscal fourth quarter related to discontinuing
WebOS devices, the company said in a regulatory filing today.  In the past five years, there have been more than 970
takeovers of European software companies, amounting to over $31
billion in deals, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
largest, not including the deal announced today, was SAP’s 2008
takeover of Business Objects SA.  Hewlett-Packard is paying 24 times Autonomy’s trailing
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
compared with a median of 17 times Ebitda in 10 comparable
deals, Bloomberg data show.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and Perella Weinberg Partners LP are advising
Hewlett-Packard on the transaction. Qatalyst Partners is the
lead financial adviser to Autonomy, which is also getting advice
from Citigroup Inc., Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Bank of America
Corp., UBS AG and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
 Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 