-- 
Perry Economy Masks Gaps While Letting Candidate Boast on Jobs

-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 
2011-08-18T17:35:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/perry-s-texas-growth-economy-masks-deficits-while-candidate-boasts-of-jobs.html
Governor  Rick Perry  made his pitch
to Republican voters this week touting the Texas economic
miracle and his ability to create jobs even during the longest
recession since the Great Depression.  Yet Perry, 61, may be choosing an opportune time to trade
Austin for Washington. Projected Medicaid deficits as well as
shortchanged schools threaten to hollow out the miracle, even as
population gains pressure the government to spend more.  “He would be leaving behind a fiscal house in worse shape
than he found when he first became governor,” state
Representative Mike Villarreal, a Democrat from San Antonio,
said in an interview. “Our revenue system looks like Swiss
cheese and our  tax code  is littered with tax loopholes that leak
billions of dollars from our state coffers.”  A boom in energy output and health-care services helped
Perry mask a structural deficit that left schools and Medicaid
each short about $4 billion in the next budget. While
unemployment never topped 8.3 percent through the recession,
even as the U.S. rate rose to 10.1 percent, 23 percent of Texans
lived in poverty in 2009, including about a third of 9.9 million
Hispanics, according to the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation. A
32 percent child-poverty rate was fourth highest in the U.S.  ‘Dumb Luck’  “Perry has benefited from dumb luck, including our energy
sector, which is booming,” said Mike Davis, who teaches finance
and economics at  Southern Methodist University  in  Dallas . The
state added about 1 million jobs from December 2000 to May 2011
as the population rose about 21 percent, federal data show.  While almost 3.3 million Texans rely on Medicaid for health
care, Perry’s spending plan for the two years starting next
month pushed $4.3 billion in projected program costs into the
next fiscal biennium starting in 2014. The insurance system for
the poor, jointly funded with the federal government, covers
about 2.46 million Texans 18 and under, state data show.  “The state has been underestimating Medicaid spending for
a decade or more, but this is just an extension of that on
steroids,” Billy Hamilton, a business consultant in Austin and
a former deputy state comptroller, said in an interview.  The Medicaid budget, which makes up a quarter of  Texas ’s
spending, also took a 10 percent cut for the next two fiscal
years, said Jeff Miller, a policy analyst at Disability Rights
Texas, an advocacy group in Austin.  Spending Cuts  With public schools projected to serve 80,000 more students
this year than last and a tax system that wasn’t expected to
support that demand, Perry cut $15 billion from spending and
shortchanged them by about $4 billion from previously mandated
levels rather than raise taxes. The governor spurned attempts to
use the state’s reserve fund, projected to top $6 billion by
August 2013, even as education advocates said his budget would
lead to the loss of several thousand school jobs.  “Texas didn’t fully fund its public-education formula for
the first time since 1949 because they were facing a major
 budget crisis ,” Hamilton said.  The budget also cut higher-education support by $1.2
billion, a move faulted by critics including former  AT&T Inc. (T) 
Chairman  Ed Whitacre  for threatening the quality of the state’s
workforce.  The effects of Medicaid and school cuts will fall
disproportionately on the Latino population, whose children make
up 49 percent of kindergarten through 12th-grade students in
Texas, according to U.S. Census Bureau data. Heading into the
new fiscal year, Texas ranked 42nd in per-pupil spending among
U.S. states and 43d in high-school graduation rates. For every
one white dropout, there were three Latinos.  Hispanic Gains  Hispanics accounted for most of the past decade’s Texas
population growth, Census figures show. In Harris County alone,
which includes Houston, the fourth-largest U.S. city, those
under 18 rose by 185,330 -- about 10 percent of the entire gain
among all Americans in that age category.  Texas will face budget gaps until it revises an overhaul
Perry led in 2006 that sought to substitute expanded business
taxes for property levies used to pay for schools, Villareal
said. Moody’s Investors Services cited the state’s plans to
maintain property-tax relief while serving a rapidly growing
population for creating a “structural budget imbalance.”  Policy makers in Austin relied on federal stimulus dollars
to balance their current budget and “delayed making difficult
fiscal decisions,” Moody’s said in an Aug. 17 report. The New
York-based credit-rating company said the state subsidized tax
relief with reserve funds because of its underperforming
business levy. Moody’s rates Texas general-obligation debt Aaa,
its top grade, with a stable outlook.  Stimulus Funding  Texas received about $17 billion from President Barack Obama’s 2009 economic-stimulus measure,  David Axelrod , Obama’s
Chicago-based political adviser, said Aug. 12 on ABC’s “Good
Morning America” television show. “It has helped him balance
his budgets.”  Perry frequently points out that Texas has led the nation
in  job creation  in recent years. Yet many of those jobs are
lower-paid positions, with the biggest gains in health care and
temporary employment, Richard Froeschle, deputy director of
Labor Market and Career Information at the Texas Workforce
Commission, said in June.  “The Republicans should be proud that their definition of
job growth and low unemployment means working at the chicken-
flip or burger-flip joints,” said state Representative Garnet Coleman, a Houston Democrat and a lawmaker since 1991.  Industry Gains  Employment numbers on the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas’s
website show that energy extraction industries had the biggest
gains of the decade under Perry, rising 62 percent as crude-oil
prices almost tripled. Figures on the state comptroller’s
website show that health-care jobs climbed 45 percent. Fed data
indicate a 17 percent increase in state positions and a 21
percent rise among local governments.  “Employers fleeing the over-taxing, over-regulating and
over-litigating atmosphere that has taken hold in so many other
states come to Texas because we’ve cultivated a culture that
rewards innovation without all the red tape,” Perry said in an
Aug. 10 speech in  San Antonio  at a National Conference of State
Legislatures meeting. Chief Executive Magazine has ranked Texas
as the best in the U.S. for business for seven straight years.  Texas’s gross state product surged 56 percent from 2000 to
2009, according U.S. Commerce Department data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with a 44 percent gain in  California 
and 42 percent in  New York .  Median Income Drop  Growth in health care, defense-related markets and energy
industries helped to double the number of Texas households with
annual incomes topping $150,000, to about 640,000 in 2009 from
2000, Census figures show. Yet the state’s inflation-adjusted
median household income fell 5.4 percent, and more than 1.6
million households have incomes of less than $20,000.  On campaign stops in  Iowa ,  New Hampshire  and  South
Carolina , Perry has emphasized that keeping taxes low also helps
families build wealth. In 2009, he signed an Americans for Tax
Reform pledge to “oppose and veto any and all efforts to
increase taxes.” In June, he rejected a bill that would have
required Internet retailers to collect state sales levies.  In announcing his bid for the Republican presidential
nomination on Aug. 13, Perry said he would “work every day to
try to make  Washington , D.C., as inconsequential in your life as
I can.”  That reflects the governor’s practice in Austin as well,
Coleman said. “It’s a philosophical approach that opposes
public funding for education and health care,” he said.  Litigation Overhaul  The governor also pushed for changes in civil litigation
rules, making lawsuits potentially more costly for losers,
giving additional legal protection to businesses and
professionals including doctors. That has helped fuel the boom
in health-care services. Yet Texas ranked 34th among states in
child well-being, the Annie E. Casey Foundation, a nonprofit
organization in Baltimore, said in a 2010 study.  Cuts in spending have begun to cost jobs. Last month, the
state closed a Youth Commission detention center that employed
about 120 workers in Brownwood, about 140 miles (225 kilometers)
southwest of  Fort Worth . It was among four prisons shuttered
since May.  “We knew for several months that they were considering it,
but it was still a shock,” said Emily Crawford,  executive
director  at the Brownwood Economic Development Corp. Those let
go included teachers, who face a tough job market as area
schools rein in spending, she said.  Credit analysts at  Standard & Poor’s  have focused on the
state’s budget difficulties in withholding a top grade for its
general-obligation debt, which it rates AA+, second highest.  Rating Lowered  After S&P removed its AAA rating from Texas in 1986, state
officials spent much of the 1990s trying to convince its
analysts to restore the top grade, said Hamilton, who was deputy
comptroller from 1991 to 2006. “They usually said, ‘get an
income tax and then come back and talk to us’ because they
didn’t see a reliable revenue activity.’”  S&P has a “stable” outlook for the state, indicating no
change in its credit grade is imminent. It raised its rating one
step to AA+, the second-highest level, in August 2009.  With $4 billion less to work with in the coming two years,
school districts are likely to increase class sizes and reduce
support personnel such as teacher aides, said Miller, the
Disability Rights Texas analyst. More than any other group, that
will affect 430,000 children with learning disabilities and
other special needs, Miller said.  Not ‘Overfunded’  “We weren’t overstaffed and overfunded before these
cuts,” Miller said. “Paraprofessionals who aren’t certified
teachers are the people most likely to be let go, which means
teachers will have less help in the classroom and less time to
help individual students.”  Disability Rights Texas is receiving more requests from
parents seeking help because schools are proposing reduced
services for their children, Miller said. “They can’t use the
‘We don’t have the money’ excuse,” he said, because federal law
requires schools to provide appropriate services.  The early childhood intervention program, which provides
needed resources to help pre-school pupils with disabilities,
will serve 14 percent fewer students than previously, said Mary
Faithfull, executive director of Miller’s group.  “Texas will lose jobs today and worst of all will have a
less-educated, less-skilled workforce to compete for quality
jobs in the future” because of the budget that begins next
month, Villarreal said in May when the Legislature passed the
spending plan. He called it “a betrayal of Texas families,
especially women and children.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin, Texas, at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 