-- 
Petrofac Wins Two Fields in Pemex Auction of Mature Blocks

-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k   a n d   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 
2011-08-18T20:58:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/petrofac-wins-rights-to-develop-two-fields-in-pemex-performance-contracts.html
Petrofac Ltd. (PFC) , a London-based oil
services company, won the right to drill the two largest  oil
fields  included in today’s auction by  Petroleos Mexicanos .  Petrofac will charge $5.01 per barrel of oil produced and
delivered to Pemex, as the state-owned oil company is known, for
the Santuario and Magallanes onshore fields. Administradora en
Proyectos en Campos SA, a Mexican company, won the right to
drill a third field, Carrizo, with a bid of $5.03 per barrel at
the auction held in Villahermosa, Mexico.  “The work is really only beginning,” said  Carlos Morales ,
chief of exploration and production at Mexico City-based Pemex.
“We’re very sure that in these regions there’s a very large
quantity of hydrocarbons.”  Pemex is seeking to tap the technology of private companies
to extract more oil from existing fields and eventually entice
companies to drill in deep water with performance-based
contracts that are permitted after a 2008 oil law change.  The company expects to later this year define fields for a
second auction,  Juan Jose Suarez Coppel , chief executive officer
of Pemex, said today in Villahermosa. Pemex is considering four
to nine blocks in the northern region, he said.  An auction would be scheduled after gaining board approval
and setting up a data room for companies to study the fields,
Suarez Coppel said.  National Interest  Drilling contracts similar to Pemex’s may become more
popular as state-owned oil companies seek ways to boost
production without selling reserves, said Peter Leach, Petrofac
senior vice president of operations and production, today in
Villahermosa.  “We know there are other countries looking at the same
model,” Leach said in an interview. “It does allow them to
access international skill sets, investment, training, without
relinquishing their title to reserves, which is an emotive
issue.”  The contracts fit well with the business model of a new
unit, called Integrated Energy Services, that Petrofac created
and is being run by Andy Inglis, the former head of  BP Plc (BP/) ’s
exploration and production unit, Leach said.  “They are a new opportunity and we intend to look at others
of this same line,” he said of the contracts.  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) , the world’s largest oilfield-services
provider, Houston-based  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  and Spain’s  Repsol YPF
SA (REP)  were among the bidders that qualified for today’s auction.  Production Costs  The three fields auctioned today produce a combined 13,000
barrels a day and that could surge to 60,000 with new drilling
from private companies, Morales said.  The minimum investment in the fields will be $250 million
and could reach five or six times that. Currently, the
production cost in the fields is about $8 per barrel, which
should decline with enhanced drilling techniques, Morales said.  Pemex’s board approved on Nov. 24 the first round of
performance-based contracts that hand over the operation of
production projects to private or foreign companies for the
first time since  Mexico  nationalized its oil industry in 1938.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Thomas Black in Monterrey, Mexico, at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net ;
Carlos M. Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 