-- 
Philadelphia Manufacturing Index Sinks After Plosser Opposes Fed Measures

-- B y   J e a n n i n e   A v e r s a
-- 
2011-08-19T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/philadelphia-factory-gauge-sinks-after-plosser-opposes-fed-easing-policy.html
The  Federal Reserve Bank of
Philadelphia  sent a signal about renewed recession risks just
one day after its president said the  U.S. economy  is growing and
doesn’t need exceptional measures.  Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  said two days
ago his policy-making colleagues at the central bank painted a
picture that was “more negative than justified” last week.
Yesterday, Plosser’s regional bank said its manufacturing index
plunged to the lowest level in 2 1/2 years, helping to push
stocks down as much as 5 percent.  “He did say business leaders he talked to were pessimistic
on growth, although he thought the economy would continue to
expand,” said  Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist at Bank
of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  New York , referring to Plosser.
“But he didn’t realize his index the next day would signal
recession? That’s the irony here.”  The mixed messages from Philadelphia provide one more dose
of uncertainty to markets already dealing with Europe’s debt
crisis and the aftermath of  Standard & Poor’s  downgrade of the
U.S. credit rating. Fed policy makers said Aug. 9 they expect a
“somewhat slower pace of recovery” than they foresaw
previously.  The Philadelphia Fed yesterday said its index of
manufacturing in the region plummeted to minus 30.7 in August,
the weakest reading since March 2009, when the economy was still
mired in the deepest and longest recession since the 1930s.  Equity Selloff  The reading, exceeding the most pessimistic projection in a
Bloomberg News survey, helped generate a selloff on  Wall Street .
The  S&P 500 Index  slumped 4.5 percent to close at 1,140.65 in
New York trading.  “The report was the shot heard around the world and pushed
stocks down even more. A reading like this is consistent with
recession,” Rupkey said of the Philadelphia survey.  Marilyn Wimp, a spokeswoman for Plosser, said he wasn’t
available to discuss the implications of yesterday’s
manufacturing report.  Each time the Philadelphia Fed’s gauge has stood at minus
30 or lower, the economy has been in a recession or was about to
tip into one, according to data compiled by Bloomberg News.  “This was a recessionary number. It tells me confidence
has really been hurt -- not only on the consumer side, but also
on the business side,” said Scott Anderson, a senior economist
at Wells Fargo Securities LLC in  Minneapolis .  Region’s Growth  The Philadelphia Fed’s region covers eastern  Pennsylvania ,
southern  New Jersey  and  Delaware .  Deutsche Bank economists, including chief U.S. economist
 Joseph LaVorgna , in a note to clients said that another key
gauge, the index of leading indicators, rose in July more than
economists forecast.  “The overall cast of data continues to present a mixed
signal,” they wrote.  Plosser was one of three regional Fed presidents who
dissented from the Fed’s Aug. 9 decision to bolster the
sputtering recovery by pledging to hold a key  interest rate  at a
record low near zero at least through mid-2013.  Explaining his opposition for the first time in an Aug. 17
interview with Bloomberg News reporters and editors, Plosser
said he thought the Fed “painted a picture of the economy that
was more negative than justified” and that he would have
preferred waiting to see if the anticipated rebound in the
second half of this year materialized.  ‘Hysterical’  “I thought the very recent data suggested that things were
not deteriorating as fast as a lot of people would -- you know
-- people were getting hysterical about,” Plosser said in the
interview.  Economic news heading into the Fed’s Aug. 9 meeting was
mostly downbeat. Gross domestic product expanded at a 1.3
percent annual rate in the second quarter after a 0.4 percent
pace in the prior period, the worst six months since the
recovery began in June 2009, Commerce Department figures showed
July 29.  Manufacturing, a key pillar of strength during the recovery,
grew at the slowest pace in two years, while  service industries 
expanded at their weakest pace since February 2010, according to
separate measures from the Institute for Supply Management.  Weak economic news, fears about  Europe ’s spreading debt
crisis and the unprecedented downgrade to the U.S. credit rating
stirred market turmoil the day before the Fed meeting. The S&P
500 Index of stocks dropped 18 percent from the end of April
through Aug. 8.  Weaker Production  Anderson at Wells Fargo Securities, said the Philadelphia
Fed report points to “much weaker factory production” in the
third quarter. And that’s likely to force him to lower his
current forecast for 2 percent growth in the second half of this
year, he said.  The economy is weak and could be getting weaker, he said.
Anderson dropped his second-quarter growth figure to below a 1
percent pace, from a 1.3 percent rate. The government releases
an updated GDP figure on Aug. 26. “We’re getting closer to
stall speed,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeannine Aversa in Washington at 
 javersa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  