-- 
Philadelphia-Area Factory Index Falls to -30.7, Lowest Since March of 2009

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-08-18T14:36:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/philadelphia-area-factory-index-falls-to-30-7-lowest-since-march-of-2009.html
Manufacturing in the Philadelphia
region unexpectedly contracted in August by the most in more
than two years as orders plunged and factories shed workers.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic
index plunged to minus 30.7 this month, the lowest since March
2009, from 3.2 in July. The August gauge exceeded the most
pessimistic projection in a Bloomberg News survey in which the
median estimate was 2. Readings less than zero signal
contraction in the area covering eastern  Pennsylvania , southern
New Jersey and  Delaware .  Stocks extended their decline after the figures showed
weaker demand from consumers and companies in the U.S. and
abroad is posing a risk to the industry that spearheaded the
recovery. Fewer customer inventories may indicate producers will
see a smaller decrease in orders should the  U.S. economy  falter.  The report is “signaling a borderline recession,” said
 John Herrmann , senior fixed-income strategist at State Street
Global Markets LLC in  Boston , who projected a contraction in the
measure of Philadelphia manufacturing. “The economy will be
able to count less and less on manufacturing.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slumped 4.2 percent to
1,144.15 at 10:35 a.m. in  New York . Treasuries climbed, pushing
down the yield on the benchmark 10-year note to 2.03 percent
from 2.17 percent late yesterday.  Estimates for the manufacturing gauge from the 56
economists surveyed ranged from minus 10 to 10.  New Orders Slump  The report showed the Philadelphia Fed’s new orders measure
dropped to minus 26.8, the lowest since March 2009, from 0.1 in
July. The shipments gauge decreased to minus 13.9, the weakest
since May 2009, from 4.3 last month.  The index of prices paid fell to 12.8 from 25.1 the prior
month, while the measure of prices received dropped to minus 9
from 1.1.  The employment index in the Philadelphia Fed report
decreased to minus 5.2, the lowest since October 2009, from a
reading last month of 8.9. A measure of the average workweek
slumped to minus 14.4 in January from minus 5.4.  Among other reports today,  consumer confidence  in the U.S.
economic outlook slumped in August to the lowest level since the
recession. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index’s monthly
expectations gauge dropped to minus 34, the weakest since March
2009, from minus 22 in July. The weekly measure of current
conditions was minus 48.3 for the period ended Aug. 14 compared
with minus 49.1, which was the worst reading since mid-May.  Jobless Claims  First-time claims for jobless insurance rose by 9,000 to
408,000 in the week ended Aug. 13, Labor Department figures
showed. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected a rise
to 400,000, according to the median forecast.  The cost of living in the U.S. rose in July by the most in
four months, led by gains in food and fuel, the Labor Department
also said. The consumer-price index increased 0.5 percent from
June, while worker pay failed to keep pace. Adjusted for
inflation, hourly wages dropped 0.1 percent in July and were
down 1.3 percent from the same month a year ago.  Sales of previously owned homes unexpectedly declined in
July, a report from the National Association of Realtors showed.
Purchases decreased 3.5 percent to a 4.67 million annual pace,
the weakest since November.  Individual measures in the Philadelphia Fed’s index don’t
contribute to the headline reading, so some economists consider
it a gauge of sentiment among manufacturers.  Supply Shock  Manufacturing had stabilized after the Japanese earthquake
induced supply shocks in the second quarter. Factory output rose
0.6 percent in July, led by gains at the nation’s automakers, a
Federal Reserve report showed Aug. 16. Production of automobiles
and parts climbed 5.2 percent last month, the first gain in four
months and the biggest in a year. Excluding motor vehicles,
manufacturing increased 0.3 percent.  At the same time, slowing demand from U.S. consumers
alongside cooling growth in emerging economies and  Europe  raises
the risk manufacturers will temper production going forward. The
world’s largest economy expanded at a 0.9 percent pace in the
first half of 2011, while gross domestic product in the 17-
nation euro area rose 0.2 percent in the second quarter from the
prior three months, when it increased 0.8 percent.  New York-area manufacturing contracted in August for a
third straight month, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s so-
called Empire State Index showed Aug. 15. The gauge, which
covers New York, northern  New Jersey  and southern  Connecticut ,
has only contracted in consecutive months when the world’s
largest economy has been in a recession.  ‘Sit on Cash’  “Right now, until the markets shake out and we understand
really where the economies are going globally, I think it
behooves us to sit on cash, to hold it, in case there is a
really, really bad recession that takes place,” John Craig,
president and chief executive officer of EnerSys, said on an
Aug. 11 call with analysts.  The Reading, Pennsylvania-based maker of industrial
batteries reported first quarter earnings on Aug. 10 that fell
short of analysts’ estimates.  Economists monitor Philadelphia and New York Fed factory
reports for clues about the Institute for Supply Management
national figures on manufacturing during the month. The ISM will
release its report on Sept. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  