-- 
Philippine Bonds Gain as Corruption Fight Spurs Deficit Optimism

-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 
2011-08-18T09:59:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/philippine-bonds-gain-as-corruption-fight-spurs-deficit-optimism.html
Philippine bonds advanced for a
seventh day as President  Benigno Aquino  stepped up efforts to
reduce corruption and increase investment, raising confidence in
his ability to deliver lower budget deficits.  Aquino said the government was going after “very
entrenched and very vested interests,” in an interview in
Manila yesterday. He prioritized a bill for adjusting taxes on
tobacco and liquor this week, a measure which may increase
revenue by as much as 60 billion pesos ($1.4 billion) a year.
Cutting the deficit, which reached a record 314.5 billion pesos
last year, was one of Aquino’s key policy pledges.  “The government is doing the right thing in sustaining the
fiscal reform,” said  Jonathan Ravelas , chief market strategist
at Banco de Oro Unibank Inc. in  Manila . “All these measures
including the ‘sin taxes’ give confidence it will hasten the
plugging of the deficit.”  The yield on the 5.875 percent bond due January 2018
dropped five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 5.00
percent in Manila, according to Amstel Financial Services. The
peso dropped 0.2 percent to 42.515 per dollar, according to
Tullett Prebon Plc.  The decline in the nation’s budget gap is “way ahead of
program,” Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima said in  Singapore 
today. Increased  tax revenue  and lower spending helped narrow
the first-half deficit to 17.2 billion pesos, below the 152
billion peso target, the government said Aug. 3.  ’Low’ Deficit  “Our deficit is very low, way below our program,”
Purisima said. “When the market opportunity is there, we will
consider” proceeding with a planned fundraising and debt
exchange, he said. “The past week, it was too volatile to do
anything so we will have a wait and see attitude.”  The peso, which has gained 3 percent this year, is
appreciating in line with the regional currencies and is trading
in a “comfortable band,” he said.  “We cannot stop the appreciation” of the peso, Purisima
said. “Most of the currencies in the world are appreciating
against the  U.S. dollar  and that is something that we all need
to adjust to. What we are trying to monitor closely is
disruptive movements.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  