-- 
Poizner’s Gubernatorial Miss Lands Him at Web-Education Startup

-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 
2011-08-18T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/poizner-s-gubernatorial-miss-lands-him-at-web-education-startup.html
Steve Poizner , who focused on  job
creation  in a failed bid to become California governor last
year, is again angling to cut unemployment. His new Silicon
Valley startup uses the Web to retrain out-of-work baby boomers.  Poizner, a technology entrepreneur who in 1995 helped
develop global-positioning systems for mobile phones, is running
a startup called  Encore Career Institute . The company is
designed to provide training to the generation of workers born
from 1946 to 1964, whose job prospects and  retirement plans  are
diminishing. He lost the Republican primary for governor in
2010, the last year of his term as state insurance commissioner.  The former politician is returning to the private sector to
achieve his mission of bringing down  California ’s jobless rate,
which was 11.8 percent in June, the  second-highest  in the U.S.
behind  Nevada . Encore is teaming up with the  University of
California at Los Angeles Extension school  to offer programs for
people who need skills in areas where there are available jobs,
including education, health care and clean technology.  “I’ve been driven by trying to do something to help get
California back on track, be it running for governor or being
insurance commissioner or starting companies,” Poizner, 54,
said in an interview.  Poizner co-founded Encore, based in  Los Gatos , California,
early this year along with  Creative Artists Agency  in  Los
Angeles  and Sherry Lansing, the former chief executive officer
of  Paramount Pictures  and a member of the  University of
California  Board of Regents. It’s Poizner’s third startup.  Digital Economy  Encore is focused on  baby boomers  because the economic
slump has forced many in that age group to push back retirement,
Poizner said. They also may have difficulty finding work, with
many of their previous jobs having disappeared. Manufacturing,
construction, telecommunication and utility industry positions
have vanished in the past decade, while jobs in education,
 health services  and the sciences have increased, according to
the  U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics .  “They’re getting older now, and as this economy becomes
more digital, they haven’t been employed as much as their
usefulness would dictate they should be,” said Michael Yanover,
head of business development at  Creative Artists Agency  and an
Encore board member. “They need to be employed still because
they’re living longer and their 401(k) plans are diminished.”  Online Colleges  Encore’s biggest challenge, after getting students to sign
up, may be distancing itself from the tainted reputation of for-
profit online colleges.  Education Management Corp. (EDMC) , the second-
largest U.S. for-profit education chain, was accused earlier
this month of using improper recruitment practices to secure
more than $11 billion in student aid, prosecutors said in a
civil lawsuit.  At least 27 whistleblower cases have been filed against
for-profit colleges under the U.S. False Claims Act since the
1990s, according to a 2009 article by law firm  Gibson Dunn &
Crutcher LLP , which defends companies against such complaints.  The Encore program will cost students about $9,000. Poizner
said the company won’t offer government-subsidized loans and
instead is looking at alternatives for scholarships as well as
loans from private sources.  “We really want to distinguish ourselves in many ways from
some of the controversy going on in the traditional for-profit
online world,” Poizner said. “We’re simply not going to be
looking to the government for any kind of subsidies, any kind of
student financing -- zero.”  Web Collaboration  Working with UCLA’s extension school, which holds classes
for adults, Encore is offering 12-month programs consisting of
eight classes that will give students certificates in fields
where there’s job growth. The program will also provide an
assessment of students’ interests and skills as well as a career
resource center for resume writing and mock interviews. Encore’s
technology will let students in different time zones collaborate
on projects and communicate with instructors.  Courses are focused specifically on job training. Someone
who wants an environmental job can take classes on renewable
energy to become an energy-panel installer, for example, or
students can study the structure of the U.S. health-care system
to be certified for jobs in hospitals.  “We started by looking at national employment trends,”
said Cathy Sandeen, dean of the UCLA extension school. “This is
really innovative and we’re serving this demographic that we had
been noticing needed help.”  Venture Funding  Encore’s first set of classes will begin in September 2012.
To build the technology and hire a staff, Encore raised $15
million in June from  InterWest Partners  in  Menlo Park ,
California, and Granite Ventures of  San Francisco . The company
has 12 employees and is looking to add another 25 as soon as
possible, Poizner said.  UCLA will provide the instructors and issue certificates to
students, while Encore is developing the software and paying for
marketing. Encore and UCLA will share the profit, and the deal
includes a minimum royalty payment from the company to UCLA of
$5 million over five years, Sandeen said.  A graduate of Stanford University Business School, Poizner
started his first venture, Strategic Mapping, in 1983,
developing software for digital maps. Around the time he sold
that company, he co-founded SnapTrack Inc., which brought GPS
technology to mobile phones. Qualcomm Inc. paid $1 billion for
SnapTrack in 2000.  Education, Technology  Poizner then entered government, serving as a White House
fellow in 2001 and volunteering as a teacher in a San Jose
public high school the following year. In 2006, Poizner was
elected as California  Insurance Commissioner . He ran for
governor last year, and was defeated in the primary by  Meg Whitman , former CEO of EBay Inc. Whitman lost in the general
election to Democrat  Jerry Brown .  Poizner said he can envision returning to politics someday.
For now, he’s focused on building a new company in what he
expects to be a multibillion-dollar business.  “I have a passion for education and I love applying
technology to solve problems,” he said. “The bottom line
behind this venture is we want to change the way employers think
about boomers, and to empower boomers with the right skills and
products and services to help them stay economically viable in
this very difficult marketplace.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  