-- 
Polish Ministry May Suspend PKO Bank Share Sale, Sees Decision Next Week

-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z   a n d   M a r t a   W a l d o c h
-- 
2011-08-18T11:49:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/polish-ministry-may-suspend-pko-bank-share-sale-sees-decision-next-week.html
Poland will decide next week whether
to delay the offering of a stake in PKO Bank Polski SA, the
country’s largest lender, in response to market conditions.  The Treasury Ministry “will decide whether to continue the
sale or not,”  Maciej Wewior , a Warsaw-based spokesman for the
ministry, said by phone today. If the sale goes ahead it will
include shares for individual investors, he said. Gazeta
Wyborcza newspaper reported today that the offering could be
directed only at institutions, meaning the bank might not be
required to prepare a prospectus.  Polish stocks dropped the most in the world today on
concern the global economic slowdown will hurt earnings. The
benchmark WIG20 Index slid 3.5 percent to 2,303.92 at 1:09 p.m.
in Warsaw, extending its decline from this year’s high in April
to 21 percent. PKO lost 4.3 percent and dropped to 35.8 zloty,
the lowest in a week.  PGE Energia Odnawialna SA, the largest Polish power
utility’s renewable energy unit, last week suspended plans for
an initial public offering in Warsaw, citing market conditions.
It followed companies such as ViOil Holding SA, a Ukrainian
producer of sunflower oil; Valinor Public Limited, a Russian
agriculture producer; and Wittchen SA, a Polish leather goods
distributor, which also postponed their Warsaw share sales.  The ministry last month scaled down the September offering
of PKO stock to a range of 13 percent to 15 percent. Treasury
Minister Aleksander Grad had said the government could sell as
much as 26 percent.  Target Not ‘Threatened’  The Polish state-asset sales target of 15 billion zloty
($5.2 billion) this year isn’t “threatened,” Deputy Treasury
Minister Adam Leszkiewicz was quoted as saying today by the PAP
newswire. Poland already sold 10.1 billion zloty of shares on
the  Warsaw Stock Exchange  this year, finding buyers for stakes
in coal producer Jastrzebska Spolka Weglowa SA, power utility
Tauron Polska Energia SA and insurer PZU.  Citigroup Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co, Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., Credit Suisse AG and PKO’s own brokerage were picked as
global coordinators for the PKO offering. ING Groep NV, UBS AG,
Societe Generale and Wood & Co. are also helping manage the
sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marta Waldoch in Warsaw on 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  