-- 
Poland’s Benchmark Index Tumbles Most in 2 Years on Global Growth Concern

-- B y   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i
-- 
2011-08-18T16:22:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/polish-stocks-slump-led-by-banks-on-global-slowdown-concern.html
Polish stocks fell the most in more
than two years as industrial output grew at the slowest pace in
21 months and concern deepened  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis
may lead to funding problems.  The benchmark WIG20 Index, in which financial shares make
up more than 40 percent of the weighting, tumbled as much as 8.8
percent and closed 5.8 percent lower at 2,248.51 at 5:30 p.m. in
Warsaw, extending its decline from this year’s high in April to
23 percent.  Bank Pekao SA (PEO) , majority-owned by UniCredit SpA of
 Italy , and Bank Handlowy SA, a unit of Citigroup Inc., slumped
more than 9 percent each.  Polish output rose 1.8 percent in July from a year earlier,
missing the 3.4 percent median estimate of 20 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. U.S. regulators are stepping up scrutiny
of local operations for Europe’s largest banks, the Wall Street
Journal reported. Stocks extended losses after a U.S. report
showed manufacturing in the Philadelphia region unexpectedly
contracted in August by the most in more than two years.  “People are turning away from banks all across Europe and
the effect is also being felt in Poland,” said Marek Juras,
head of equity research at UniCredit SpA in Warsaw.  PKO Bank Polski SA,  Poland ’s biggest lender, declined 5.6
percent to 35.29 zloty and Pekao, the second-largest bank, sank
9.3 percent to 123.4 zloty. Handlowy slid 9.8 percent to 61.35
zloty and  BRE Bank SA (BRE) , a unit of Commerzbank AG, tumbled 6.9
percent to 255.1 zloty, falling the most in a week.  PKN, Lotos  The Federal Reserve Bank of  New York  has been holding talks
with the lenders and sought information about their access to
funds to maintain operations in the U.S., the Journal said,
citing people it didn’t identify. Separately, Swedish regulators
said lenders are unprepared for a freeze in money markets.  PKN Orlen SA, Poland’s largest oil company, fell for the
first time in five days, sliding 11 percent to 34.8 zloty.  Grupa
Lotos SA (LTS) , the second-largest refiner, sank 6.5 percent to 32.27
zloty as crude oil declined the most in more than a week amid
concern that economic growth in the U.S. and China is slowing.  KGHM Polska Miedz SA (KGH) , the copper producer with the biggest
European mine output, retreated for a second day, sliding 5.6
percent to 155 zloty, closing at the lowest since December.
Copper fell after Morgan Stanley and Deutsche Bank AG reduced
forecasts for economic growth worldwide and in China, the
biggest consumer of the metal, fanning concern about the
strength of demand.  ‘Insufficient’  Global growth will come to 3.9 percent this year, below the
prior 4.2 percent estimate, Morgan Stanley said, citing an
“insufficient” policy response to Europe’s debt crisis,
weakened confidence and the prospect of fiscal tightening.
 China ’s economy will swell this year by 8.9 percent, down from a
prediction of 9.1 percent, according to Deutsche Bank.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic
index plunged to minus 30.7 this month, the lowest since March
2009, from 3.2 in July. Economists forecast the gauge would rise
to 2, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pawel Kozlowski in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  