-- 
Polish Industry Grows at Slowest Pace in 21 Months, Adding to Growth Woes

-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l   a n d   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 
2011-08-18T15:05:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/polish-july-industrial-output-slows-as-economic-recovery-loses-momentum.html
Polish industrial-output growth was
the slowest in 21 months in July, missing economist forecasts,
as a drop in demand for exports added to signs the European
Union’s largest eastern economy is faltering.  Industrial production expanded 1.8 percent from a year
earlier after growing 2 percent in June, the  Central Statistical
Office  in Warsaw said today, below the 3.4 percent median
estimate of 20 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Output slumped
6 percent on the month.  Economic growth in the euro area, which buys 55 percent of
Polish exports, slowed to 0.2 percent from the previous quarter
in the April-June period, the worst performance since the bloc’s
2009 recession. Poland’s economy probably grew 4.2 percent from
a year earlier in the second quarter, slowing from 4.4 percent
in the first, according to a Bloomberg survey of 17 economists,
suggesting the central bank may start lowering borrowing costs.  “We can see the impact of a slowdown in the German
economy, which is so closely linked with ours, and it was hard
to expect Polish exports to defy this damaging effect,” said
Ernest Pytlarczyk, chief economist at BRE Bank in Warsaw.
“Policy makers will opt for a rate cut as soon as inflation
allows, which may be around year end.”  Stocks Plunge  Economies across eastern  Europe  have slowed as Europe’s
debt crisis threatens global expansion. Export-led growth in
 Hungary ,  Romania  and the  Czech Republic  decelerated in the
second quarter, data released this week showed.  Poland’s benchmark WIG 20 stock index plunged 6.0 percent,
leading a selloff across European and U.S. markets amid concern
over the pace of global growth. Energy and financial stocks were
the worst performers, with PKN Orlen S.A. losing 9.6 percent and
BRE Bank S.A., a unit of Commerzbank AG, down 8.3 percent.  Investors on the  derivatives market  are betting  Narodowy
Bank Polski  will reduce borrowing costs by a quarter percentage-
point by February, with six-month forward rate agreements
trading 28 basis points below the three-month Warsaw Interbank
Offered Rate, the lowest in 10 months. The gap widened by 4
basis points after the production data were released.  After increasing its benchmark  interest rate  four times
from January to June, data suggest the central bank’s monetary-
tightening cycle may have ended. Growth in corporate employment
was slower than expected in July, gaining 3.3 percent from a
year earlier compared with 3.6 percent in June. The inflation
rate fell expectedly for a second month in July.  ‘No Inflation Pressure’  Today’s output figures show “there is no inflation
pressure in the economy,” said Urszula Krynska, an economist at
Bank Millenium in Warsaw.  The Monetary Policy Council left borrowing costs unchanged
in July, saying a cumulative 1 percentage-point increase earlier
this year should be enough to tame inflation. Price pressures
may ease as the global economy slows and the Polish government
lowers spending to cut the general government deficit to less
than 3 percent of GDP next year from 5.6 percent this year.  Inflation will be within a target range of 1.5 percent to
3.5 percent in 2012, the central bank said in July.  Producer prices, an early indicator of inflationary trends,
rose 5.9 percent from a year earlier in July, the statistics
office reported today. That compares with a median forecast of
5.7 percent in a Bloomberg survey of 15 economists. Producer
prices rose 0.4 percent on the month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net 
Katya Andrusz at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  