-- 
Polyus Gold International Increases Stake in Russian Unit

-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 
2011-08-18T14:59:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/polyus-gold-international-increases-stake-in-russian-unit-1-.html
Polyus Gold International Ltd. said
it gained an additional 2.35 percent stake in its Russian unit
after completing the second stage of a share-exchange offer.  Jenington International Inc., a unit of the Jersey-
registered company, accepted 1.05 percent of OAO Polyus Gold
stock by the Aug. 15 deadline, Polyus Gold International said in
a statement today. Jenington also agreed to acquire an
additional 4.9 million Polyus Gold ADSs, or a stake of about 1.3
percent, outside of the private exchange offer, it said.  The transactions take Polyus Gold International’s stake in
the Russian unit to 91.5 percent. The parent said it bought the
4.9 million ADSs at $29.39 apiece. That’s below the $34.40 per
ADS valuation placed on the stock in the share exchange, said
Dmitry Smolin, a Uralsib Capital analyst in Moscow.  Polyus Gold International, formerly named KazakhGold Group
Ltd., completed the purchase of about 89 percent of OAO Polyus
Gold in July to inject the Russian operation’s assets into the
U.K.-listed company and boost the group’s access to investors
abroad. Only about half of minority investors, holding about a
10th of the shares, joined the so-called reverse takeover,
KazakhGold said July 19.  The company is required to declare a mandatory offer to OAO
Polyus Gold shareholders within 35 days of July 26, German Pikhoya, chief executive officer of the Russian unit, said last
month.  Through the second stage of the exchange offer and by
buying shares from the market, Polyus Gold International shaved
about $130 million off the cost of buying the stock during a
mandatory offer, Smolin said by phone today.  Polyus Gold International will still require $1 billion of
funding to buy the rest of the stock during a mandatory offer,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  