-- 
Price War May Curb Maersk’s U.S. Holiday-Shipping Rates: Freight Markets

-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 
2011-08-18T10:51:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/price-war-may-curtail-maersk-apl-holiday-shipping-rates-freight-markets.html
Container lines may miss their peak-
season targets on Asia-U.S. routes as orders for backpacks,
sneakers and flatscreen TVs fall below expectations and ships
sail below-capacity. Christmas shipping may be the same.  The build-up to the holiday and back-to-school shopping
seasons, the busiest periods for U.S. retailers, usually allows
A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S, Neptune Orient Lines Ltd.’s APL Ltd.
unit and other container lines to introduce surcharges around
mid-June. This year, levies were delayed to this week because of
excess capacity. The lines still may get less than the $400 per
forty-foot box they set as a guideline for shipments to U.S.
West Coast ports.  “What is agreed upon by a panel of container lines is one
thing, but what will actually happen in the market is another,”
Maersk’s Chief Executive Officer Nils Smedegaard Andersen said
yesterday. “It’s too early to say whether the surcharges will
be successful.”  Container lines’ earnings have slumped this year as fuel
prices have jumped 29 percent, while rates on Asia-West Coast
routes have tumbled 21 percent to $1,589 per box, based on the
Shanghai Containerized Freight Index. Extra trans-Pacific
capacity may prevent the lines from pocketing surcharges that
usually make the second half their most profitable period.  Surcharges ‘Not Much’  “Container ships to the U.S. West Coast are not filling
up, which leaves shipping companies with few bargaining chips
for imposing surcharges,” said Dong Jinghua, general manager of
Shenzhen Continents International Forwarding Co., which arranges
about 300 container shipments a month. “Most lines are taking a
wait-and-see attitude because those that act first may risk
losing customers.”  Surcharges are likely to be “not much” this year as
vessels are only 90 percent full on Asia-West Coast routes, said
Jee Heon Seok, an analyst at NH Investment & Securities Co. in
 Seoul . Shippers are usually struggling to find space at this
time of year, he said.  The slowdown has contributed to Neptune Orient, parent of
southeast  Asia ’s biggest container line, falling 50 percent this
year in  Singapore  trading, the worst performance in the
benchmark Straits Times Index. Maersk has slumped 30 percent in
Copenhagen.  China  Cosco Holdings Co., operator of China’s
biggest container fleet, has tumbled 45 percent in  Hong Kong .  Levy Delay  Neptune Orient dropped 2.7 percent to close at S$1.09, the
lowest price since April 2009, in Singapore. Hanjin Shipping Co.
fell 0.6 percent in Seoul and China Cosco advanced 4.1 percent
in Hong Kong.  The Transpacific Stabilization Agreement, a group of 15
container lines with limited antitrust protection, originally
advised introducing $400 surcharges on  June 15 . It later delayed
the start to Aug. 15.  Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd. , which isn’t part
of the group, delayed its levies to Sept. 1.  Group members APL, Orient Overseas (International) Ltd.,
Hanjin Shipping Co.,  Evergreen Group  and  Yang Ming Marine
Transport Corp. (2609)  all said they would begin levying surcharges on
Aug. 15 when contacted by Bloomberg News. They didn’t say how
much they would charge.  “We are optimistic in the third quarter that we will
realize some portion of benefits in the peak-season surcharge
both in the trans-Pacific and Asia-Europe trades,” APL
President Kenneth Glenn said on Aug. 12. “Trans-Pacific
utilization is improving.”  ‘Degree of Success’  Orient Overseas, Hong Kong’s biggest container line, also
anticipates “some degree of success,” Chief Financial Officer
Ken Cambie said earlier this month. “There’s an expectation of
some capacity constraints in the peak season.”  Shipping lines are basing their optimism on low U.S.
inventory levels, which may force retailers to restock even
without a big jump in spending. U.S. retailers’ inventory-to-
sales ratio, excluding motor vehicles, remained at a seasonally
adjusted 1.19 in June, the lowest since the Census Bureau
started compiling the data in 1992.  “Inventory levels in the U.S. are below historical levels
for this time of the year,” APL’s Glenn said. Retailers won’t
know what stocks they’ll need “until the buying season actually
begins and then they will make their decisions,” he said.  Inbound Volumes  Inbound container volumes at major U.S. retail ports may
rise 10 percent from last year in September and 8 percent in
October, according to the Washington-based  National Retail
Federation . Volumes declined 5 percent year-on-year in June and
probably fell 5.7 percent in July, the group said in an Aug. 9
 statement . It forecast a 1.6 percent decline for this month.  The drop in traffic reflected a surge in shipments a year
earlier caused by concerns about a shortage of capacity, rather
than an economic slowdown, the group said.  “Container-shipping demand is expected to see some
increase in line with the peak season,” Seoul-based Hanjin
Shipping said in an Aug. 12 statement. “Profitability is also
expected to improve as shipping lines are trying to restore
freight rates and reduce costs.”  Still, U.S. retailers may hesitate to build up inventories
as employment above 9 percent and falling home prices damp
confidence. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
preliminary index of consumer sentiment last month slumped to
the lowest since May 1980. U.S. back-to-school spending this
year may rise 3 percent, decelerating from 5 percent growth in
2010, according to the  International Council of Shopping
Centers .  Expanding Global Fleet  An expanding global container-ship fleet may also hit
rates. Copenhagen-based Maersk said yesterday that worldwide
capacity growth this year will likely surpass an 8 percent
increase in traffic. The company reported a 3 percent drop in
average first-half rates, even as volumes rose 6 percent.  “I don’t think shipping companies can impose surcharges
this year because supply is exceeding demand,” said Chen Xiang
Cheng, manager of Shanghai Minmetals Golden Hope International
Transportation Co., which organizes more than 4,000 container
shipments a month with lines including Maersk.  The Danish company expects to report a decline in full-year
profit, it said yesterday. Earnings at its container unit will
be “modest” compared with a prediction in May for a
“satisfactory” profit, it said.  “It’s generally difficult to get freight-rate increases
through in this market because there always seems to be some
container line ready to under-bid you,” Andersen said.  Neptune Orient may post a full-year loss if conditions
don’t improve, Chief Executive Officer  Ron Widdows  said on Aug.
12. The Singapore-based company slumped to a second straight
quarterly loss in the three months ended July 1 because of
higher fuel costs and lower rates. The price of 380 Centistoke
marine bunker fuel, used by ships, was at $655.50 per metric ton
yesterday in Singapore, up from $507.50 at the end of 2010.  “Everything bad you can think of is happening for shipping
lines,” said NH Investment’s Jee. “It’s going to be next year
before things start turning around.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  