-- 
Putin Denounces American Parasite While Russia Increases Treasuries 1,600%

-- B y   A l e n a   C h e c h e l ,   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   J a c k   J o r d a n
-- 
2011-08-19T08:29:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/putin-slams-u-s-parasite-after-1-600-jump-in-russia-holdings.html
For Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin , the U.S. is a “parasite” because its rising debt weighs
on the global economy. For his government, the same debt is the
safest possible investment.  Russia, the world’s largest energy producer, has boosted
its holdings of  U.S. debt  by more than 1,600 percent since
September 2006, according to U.S. Treasury Department data.
Russia used surging commodity prices to build the world’s third-
largest reserves pile, boosted in part by return on Treasuries.  Putin, 58, who oversaw the largest buildup of U.S. debt
holdings in Russia’s history as president from 2000 to 2008, may
return to the post after elections next year. The country is now
one of the world’s 10 largest holders of the securities with
$110 billion at the end of June, about 70 percent more than when
Putin left the Kremlin.  “They are sending out a message” largely for domestic
consumption,  Edwin Gutierrez , who helps manage about $7 billion
in emerging-market debt at Aberdeen Asset Management in  London ,
said in a phone interview on Aug. 17. “It’s ironic that these
voices of complaint come as they experience massive  capital
appreciation .”  Russia’s 2020 dollar bonds returned 9.5 percent this year
compared with 12.7 percent for similar-maturity U.S. debt. This
month, the Russian dollar bonds advanced 0.7 percent against a
5.6 percent increase for U.S. bonds. Ten-year Treasury yields
dropped below two percent for the first time yesterday, touching
a record-low 1.9735 percent before rising again.  U.S. Bonds Outperform  The yield on 10-year U.S. Treasuries has fallen 2.77
percentage points, or 277 basis points, over the past five
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on
U.S. Treasuries due in 2016 has fallen 110 basis points this
year, almost double the 66 basis-point drop for comparable
German bunds.  The American  bond market  has outperformed world bond
indexes since  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded the U.S. credit
rating on Aug. 5, showing market concern that the nation may
default hasn’t risen. Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch
Ratings, the two next biggest rating companies, affirmed their
AAA ratings on the U.S.  S&P’s first downgrade of U.S. debt to AA+ sparked a global
selloff in equities as investors sought shelter in traditional
havens like Treasuries. The Securities and Exchange Commission
is scrutinizing the decision.  ‘Beyond Its Means’  The U.S. “is living beyond its means and shifting part of
the weight of its problems onto the world economy, acting to
some extent as a parasite on the global economy and its dollar
monopoly position,” Putin told a youth camp outside Moscow on
Aug. 1 in response to questions about the risk of an American
default.  After the S&P downgrade,  Russia  joined the largest holders
of U.S. debt in rushing to voice support by pledging to retain
their Treasuries holdings.  Russia doesn’t expect “any alternative whatsoever” to
American sovereign debt in its holdings for the next five years,
Deputy Finance Minister Sergei Storchak said in a telephone
interview on Aug. 16.  “The U.S. debt market is still the most liquid, dependable
and safe,” Storchak said. “There’s absolutely no reason for
Russia to reconsider its position on U.S. securities or to
change its investment strategy now. And not just now -- for some
time to come.”  Oil Revenue Boost  Even after reducing holdings 38 percent from an October
2010 peak of $176 billion, Russia’s $110 billion in U.S.
Treasuries at the end of June accounted for 21 percent of its
international reserves and gold holdings, up from 17 percent
when the foreign exchange stockpile peaked in August 2008.  Russian holdings of U.S. Treasuries have expanded in the
last five years as soaring oil revenue boosted the reserves of
the world’s largest crude producer. Urals crude oil, the
country’s main export blend, has almost doubled in price to
$106.10 a barrel from $54.44 over the same period.  “As long as the dollar remains the main currency in which
the central bank tracks reserves and raw-materials companies
receive their revenue, Russia really doesn’t have any
alternatives,” Oleg Vyugin, chairman at Moscow-based MDM Bank
and a former first deputy chairman of the central bank, said in
a phone interview Aug. 17. “The Federal Reserve system is the
center of global liquidity.”  Russia’s Reserves  Foreign-currency holdings and gold reached $540.2 billion
in the week ending Aug. 12, the highest level since October
2008, Bank Rossii said on its website yesterday.  Russia’s holdings of monetary gold rose to a record $43.6
billion as of Aug. 1, from $35.6 billion on Jan. 1 and $27.3
billion a year ago. The country wants to diversify its reserves,
 Alexei Ulyukayev , a central bank first deputy chairman, said
this week in an interview posted on Bank Rossii’s website.  For now, instruments denominated in dollars and euros
represent the “two truly liquid markets,” Ulyukayev said.
“We’re going to work on this, but unfortunately there’s no
reason to expect any significant changes.”  Even as Bank Rossii’s holdings of U.S. debt slipped this
year, the country kept the ratio of dollars in its sovereign
funds at about 45 percent, said Storchak, who oversees the
 Reserve Fund  and the National Wellbeing Fund. They held a
combined $119 billion of Russia’s reserves as of July.  “As opposed to the other central banks, Russia won’t see a
need to change the structure of its reserves sharply,” Natalia Orlova and Dmitry Dolgin, analysts at  Alfa Bank , Russia’s
largest non-state lender, said in a research note on Aug. 17.  Russian oil and gas sales abroad account for about 64
percent of exports, while metals sales are another 15 percent,
they wrote. Because most of that revenue is in dollars, Bank
Rossii “remain comfortable with a relatively high portion of
dollars in its reserves,” Orlova and Dolgin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Alena Chechel in Moscow at 
 achechel@bloomberg.net ;
Jack Jordan in Moscow at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 