-- 
Queens Park Rangers Bought by AirAsia CEO Tony Fernandes

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-08-18T17:14:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/queens-park-rangers-to-be-bought-by-airasia-s-tony-fernandes.html
Queens Park Rangers, promoted to
English soccer’s Premier League at the end of last season, has
been bought by  Tony Fernandes , chief executive officer of
 Malaysia ’s  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA)   Fernandes’s Tune Group is buying a 66 percent stake in the
club from Formula One chief  Bernie Ecclestone  and his partner
Flavio Briatore, with the balance retained by metals billionaire
 Lakshmi Mittal ’s family. Financial terms weren’t revealed at a
press conference at the club’s west  London  stadium. The deal was
worth 35 million pounds ($57.6 million), the Guardian reported.  “I grew up down the road, and never did I dream that one
day I’d be here as the chairman of the club. I’m absolutely
thrilled,” Fernandes told reporters.  The Malaysian will become chairman of QPR Holdings Ltd.,
with Amit Bhatia, son-in-law of Mittal, resuming his role as
vice-chairman after quitting earlier this year. Fernandes said
he and Bhatia shared “the same vision” for QPR.  “I think we’ll form a good partnership in taking what I
think is an unpolished diamond and helping it to become a fully
fledged diamond over the next period of years.”  Both men stressed their support for coach Neil Warnock, and
Fernandes said the club would give him whatever he needed, “to
the best of our ability,” to take the team forward. He said he
hoped the club would be able to give Warnock the “support and
love that he requires.”  Takeover Talk  Takeover speculation has surrounded the club since
Ecclestone said in April that he might sell it for 100 million
pounds. On July 28, QPR said it had started talks with a new
potential buyer after discussions with another party ended in
March.  Fernandes is the latest overseas investor to buy into the
world’s richest soccer league, which has more than 1 billion
pounds in broadcast revenue. Russia’s  Roman Abramovich , at
Chelsea, and the U.S. Glazer family at  Manchester United , are
among the owners.  Fernandes, 47, is also involved in Formula One as the head
of Team Lotus. He was unsuccessful in attempts to buy east
London’s West Ham, the club where he says he’s been a lifelong
fan. The Hammers, bought by  David Sullivan  and  David Gold , have
since been relegated from the Premier League.  Under Fernandes, a former Time Warner Inc. executive,
AirAsia has gone from being a two-plane startup in 2001 to
 Asia ’s biggest listed budget airline. He has a net worth of $470
million, according to Forbes magazine, and is a sponsor of the
Oakland Raiders team in the  National Football League .  ‘Momentous’  “It’s a momentous day,” Warnock, who led QPR to promotion
last season, said. “What we’ve done in such a short space of
time is incredible, but we needed to go a step further. To get
Tony on board and listen to his ideas and what his plans are for
the club, I think everybody connected with QPR should be excited
about the whole prospect. We’ve got there, to the promised land,
but we want to stay there and build the club.”  Fans will be looking to the new owner to spend more money
on players to help it stay in the top division after QPR crashed
4-0 at home to Bolton Wanderers in its opening league game last
weekend.  In May, vice-chairman Bhatia quit the board after a
disagreement over ticket-price increases -- which have angered
fans -- and changes to club management. Bhatia confirmed at the
time that the Mittals wished to buy Ecclestone’s stake but had
been rebuffed.  “It is indeed a momentous day in the history of the
club,” said Bhatia today. “We need to start looking towards
the future with our primary goal being to remain in the
Premiership this season and hopefully for many seasons.”  Mittal Stake  The Mittal family took a stake in QPR in December 2007,
three months after billionaire Ecclestone and Briatore bought
the team for 1 million pounds and assumed debt of 13 million
pounds. Lakshmi Mittal is chief executive officer of
 ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s biggest steelmaker.  Before the latest promotion, the team last played in the
Premier League 15 years ago. The arrival of Ecclestone, Briatore
and the Mittals restored financial stability after years of
turbulence. There were constant coaching changes, though, before
Warnock got the job in March 2010 and led the team to winning
the second-tier championship in May this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  