-- 
Rand Snaps Six-Day Rally Versus Dollar,Bonds Soar on Global Growth Concern

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-08-18T15:30:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/rand-snaps-six-day-rally-as-stocks-tumble-before-u-s-july-inflation-data.html
The rand declined for the first time
in seven days against the dollar and bonds surged, driving 10-
year yields to the lowest in more than two years, amid growing
concern the global economy is slowing.  The rand tumbled as much as 2.4 percent to 7.2596 per
dollar, and traded 1.6 percent weaker at 7.2063 as of 5:03 p.m.
in Johannesburg, the worst performance out of 16 major
currencies monitored by Bloomberg.  South Africa ’s currency
retreated 0.8 percent to 10.3179 per euro.  The dollar gained against all 16 of its most-traded
counterparts, gold rose to a record and the MSCI All-Country
World Index of stocks lost 4 percent. South Africa’s benchmark
stock index tumbled the most since Aug. 8, led by mining
companies including BHP Billiton Ltd, as investors sold riskier
assets.  “It’s a bit of global panic: dump anything that has risk
attached to it,” Ian Cruickshanks, head of treasury strategic
research at Johannesburg-based Nedbank Capital, a unit of South
Africa’s fourth-biggest bank, said by phone. “People don’t know
what to do, except to buy gold.”  Financial companies led losses in stocks after Lars
Frisell, chief economist at  Sweden ’s financial regulator, said
it won’t take much for interbank lending to freeze and the Wall
Street Journal reported that U.S. regulators were scrutinizing
the American operations of  Europe ’s largest lenders to assess
their vulnerability.  Growth Forecast Reduced  Morgan Stanley cut its forecast for global growth this year
to 3.9 percent from 4.2 percent. Equities extended losses after
U.S. existing home sales unexpectedly dropped and a gauge of
Philadelphia manufacturing shrank more than estimated.  “The correlation between the stock market and the rand
still exists,”  Murat Toprak , a currency strategist at HSBC
Holdings Plc in  London , said by phone. “The risks for the rand
are all external.”  U.S. stocks extended losses after consumer prices in the
world’s biggest economy climbed more than economists’
expectations in July, fueling speculation the  Federal Reserve 
won’t start a third round of quantitative easing to boost the
economy.  South Africa’s 6.75 percent securities due 2021 advanced
82.5 cents to 93.43 rand, the biggest one-day gain since Nov.
30, driving the yield down 13.5 basis points, or 0.135
percentage point, to 7.72 percent, the lowest on a closing basis
since January 2009.  “We think it’s only a matter of time before the market
start pricing in a higher probability of rate cuts, which is why
the  bond market  is well in demand,” BNP Paribas SA analysts led
by London-based Paul Mortimer-Lee wrote in an e-mailed research
note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  