-- 
Reagan-Gorbachev Winery Improves Taste Without Raising Prices

-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 
2011-08-18T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/reagan-gorbachev-winery-improves-taste-with-longer-aging-no-price-hike.html
When John  Jordan  was handed the
reins of his family’s Sonoma County, California, winery in 2005,
he had little experience in the industry and several big
decisions to make.  Jordan Vineyard & Winery , established by his father, Tom,
in 1972 as an American version of Bordeaux’s famous chateaux,
had built a reputation for producing balanced cabernet
sauvignons and chardonnays.  Ronald Reagan  and  Mikhail Gorbachev 
shared a Jordan chardonnay bottle during a 1987 state dinner,
and sales were brisk.  So some company employees were surprised when Jordan beefed
up the sales staff and directed them to cut back deliveries for
some long-time customers so bottles could be given to new ones.  “My dad said, ‘What’s the matter with you?’” Jordan
recalled. “You’re spending all this money growing the sales
force and infrastructure when you’re already selling
everything.”  Jordan, a former Navy officer and partner at a mortgage-
fraud firm, said he made the moves to prepare for the crash of
the housing bubble.  “I knew demand would fall off, so if you could grow the
number of accounts, you could afford a 30 percent hit in store
sales,” he said. “And that’s what we did.”  The worst economic decline since the Great Depression
damped sales of wine bottles costing more than $20 as consumers
cut back on luxury spending. The retail value of  California  wine
sales  fell  5.3 percent from 2007 to 2009, the first dip in at
least a decade, according to the San Francisco-based Wine
Institute.  Better Taste  In addition to increasing the sales force, Jordan pushed
for a better tasting wine.  Though he dismissed suggestions to sell a more expensive
line of cabernet sauvignon, he asked  winemaker  Rob Davis to make
a batch of wine that would be worthy of a reserve label. Jordan
was so impressed with the results that he told Davis, “I sure
wish it could all taste like this.”  Davis, who has been with the winery since the beginning and
apprenticed with legendary winemaker Andre Tchelistcheff, said
he could do that for a price.  Davis wanted to spend more on storage barrels, age the wine
longer before selling it and have the option to buy fruit from
nearby growers. Jordan’s father had preferred to use most grapes
from his own 250-acre estate.  Jordan approved the changes, but kept the price at $52 per
bottle. (The company also  sells  a chardonnay for $29.)  Ivy-Covered Mansion  The changes were evident during a tasting at Jordan’s
estate in Healdsburg, about 70 miles north of San Francisco. The
58,000-square-foot, ivy-covered brick mansion serves as a
tasting room, culinary center and winemaking facility.  While the winery’s 1999 and 2002 bottles were dense on the
palate and showed predominately dark chocolate and earthy tones,
the 2006 and 2007 vintages were lighter and highlighted plum and
black-fruit flavors, without losing depth and power.  The changes have helped the wine reach a broader audience,
said Robert Nicholson, principal at  International Wine
Associates , a liquor consulting and financing firm in
Healdsburg.  “The family very much knows what they’re doing,”
Nicholson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 