-- 
Treasury Yields Tumble Amid Concern Worldwide Economic Growth Is Slowing

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-08-18T21:16:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/treasuries-rise-before-consumer-price-data-as-investors-cut-inflation-bets.html
Treasuries surged, pushing yields to
record lows, as investors sought a refuge in the world’s safest
securities on concern global growth is slowing and speculation
inflation will remain subdued.  U.S. government debt was on pace for the best monthly
returns since December 2008 a week after the  Federal Reserve 
said it would keep borrowing costs unchanged until at least
mid-2013. Treasuries have returned 1.8 percent since  Standard &
Poor’s  lowered the U.S. credit rating for the first time on Aug.
5 and are up 2.9 percent this month. Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s Global Government Bond Index, which excludes the U.S.,
has increased 1.7 percent in August.  “The only place to hide is in the U.S.,” said James Camp,
managing director of fixed income in  St. Petersburg ,  Florida , at
Eagle Asset Management Inc., which manages $19.5 billion.
“Rates are going to test the lows. It’s the anemic or worse
economic growth, a benign inflation environment and catastrophe
in Europe.”  Yields on 10-year notes dropped 10 basis points, or 0.10
percentage point, to 2.06 percent at 5:13 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2.125 percent
securities due in August 2021 rose 29/32, or $9.06 per $1,000
face amount, to 100 18/32. The yields touched the record low of
1.9735 percent, dropping below 2 percent for the first time.  Drop in Stocks  The S&P 500 Index tumbled 4.5 percent. Crude oil for
September delivery dropped 6.9 percent. The Dollar Index, which
IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses to gauge the greenback
against a basket of currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners, rallied the most in two weeks on a bid for safety.  The 2.9 percent return on Treasuries in August would be the
biggest since  U.S. debt  increased 3.5 percent at the depths of
the financial crisis in December 2008, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s U.S. Treasury Master Index.  “It’s capitulation that growth will be subpar,” said Ira Jersey, an  interest-rate  strategist in New York at Credit Suisse
Group AG, one of 20 primary dealers that trade directly with the
U.S. central bank. “In 2008, there was optimism that we would
have growth by now.”  The previous record low for the 10-year note yield was set
on Aug. 9 as the Fed committed to leaving benchmark rates
unchanged after S&P cut the U.S. credit rating to AA+ from AAA
four days earlier, citing the political failure to cut U.S.
deficits. Before that, the 10-year yield slid to a record in
December 2008 amid the worst economy since World War II, credit-
market losses exceeding $1 trillion and the biggest drop in the
 S&P 500 Index (SPX)  since 1931.  Treasury Yields  A gain of more than two points in 30-year bonds today
pushed yields down 14 basis points to 3.42 percent. Five- and
seven-year note yields touched record lows of 0.79 percent and
1.31 percent. Two-year notes yielded 0.19 percent.  U.S. Treasury yields are about 82 basis points lower than
those of other global  government bonds , according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes. Interest rates on American bonds
are lower today than on most of the countries with AAA ratings
by S&P, and the Treasury recently financed its outstanding debt
at the lowest cost ever.  “There has been a realization that irrespective of what
S&P says or the credibility they do or do not have, in a crisis
investors still want U.S. Treasuries,” said Larry Milstein,
managing director of government and agency debt trading in New
York at R.W. Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income broker and dealer
for institutional investors. “We are in a market where you
don’t want to be short Treasuries. You want to buy any weakness
until proven otherwise.” A short is a bet that the price of a
security will fall.  Debt Returns  Fixed-income securities from the U.S. to  Europe  and  Asia 
have returned 1.6 percent on average in August, the most since
gaining 1.7 percent in the same month of 2010, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Index.  Yields as measured by the index, which covers more than
19,000 government, corporate, asset-backed and other types of
securities, have fallen to 2.25 percent, from this year’s high
of 3.03 percent in April.  Consumer prices excluding food and energy increased 0.2
percent last month, the lowest level since April, the Labor
Department reported today. First-time jobless claims climbed by
9,000 to 408,000 in the week ended Aug. 13, the highest in a
month, the Labor Department also said.  Philadelphia Manufacturing  Manufacturing in the Philadelphia region unexpectedly
contracted in August by the most in more than two years as
orders plunged and factories shed workers. The Philadelphia
Fed’s general economic index plunged to minus 30.7 this month,
the lowest since March 2009, from 3.2 in July. Readings less
than zero signal contraction in the area covering eastern
 Pennsylvania , southern  New Jersey  and Delaware.  “The market is connected to the economic outlook, which
continues to deteriorate,” said Mark MacQueen, a partner in
Austin,  Texas , at Sage Advisory Services Ltd., which oversees
$9.5 billion. “It’s a long-term pain situation here.”  Gross domestic product increased in the second quarter at a
1.3 percent annual rate following a 0.4 percent gain in the
prior quarter that was less than earlier estimated, Commerce
Department figures showed July 29.  The extra yield Treasury investors get to hold 30-year
bonds instead of two-year notes fell to 327 basis points, the
narrowest on a closing basis since September.  ‘Marked Down’  “Realizing that global economic growth will continue to be
marked down compared to what people were expecting, that we are
seeing no inflation and that central banks are keeping rates
low, investors have every incentive to grab yield wherever they
can, and this means buying further out the Treasury curve,”
said Bulent Baygun, head of interest-rate strategy in New York
at BNP Paribas SA, a primary dealer.  Even  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co., has been building his
holdings of  U.S. government debt  since eliminating the
securities from his $245.5 billion Total Return Fund in
February. He increased the securities to 10 percent of the
fund’s assets last month. Gross had said that Treasuries “have
little value” because of the nation’s growing debt burden and
inflation-adjusted yields below zero.  “Recession likely as markets recognize impotency of
policymakers,” Gross said today via  Twitter .  The difference between the yield on benchmark 10-year notes
and the year-over-year consumer price index, known as the real
yield, touched negative 1.59 percentage points today, the
biggest negative gap since July 2008. The spread has been
negative since May. It touched 1.74 percent in January as the
yield on the 10-year reached 3.5 percent.  Disney Debt  The drop in U.S. government bond yields has encouraged
corporations to tap the fixed-income market.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  is
taking advantage of demand for the longest maturity debt with
its first 30-year bond sale in almost a decade after the Fed
pledged to hold interest rates at record lows through at least
mid-2013.  The world’s biggest theme-park operator sold $350 million
of 4.375 percent, 30-year bonds yesterday, joining AT&T Inc. and
 Warren Buffett ’s Burlington Northern Santa Fe, which had
similar-maturity offerings in the past week, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The average investment-grade bond
maturity has climbed to 14 years since the Fed’s pledge on Aug.
9, from nine years in the rest of 2011.  The difference between yields on 10-year Treasuries and
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities shrank to 2.08
percentage points, the narrowest since November. The so-called
break-even rate, reflecting investor expectations for inflation
during the next decade, widened to as much as 2.67 percentage
points in April.  TIPS Auction  Today’s offering of U.S. five-year TIPS yielded negative
0.825 percent, compared with negative 0.180 percent at the
auction of the securities on April 21. Investors bid for 2.49
times the amount of debt offered, versus the average of 2.61 for
the past 10 auctions. Indirect bidders, the investor class that
includes foreign central banks, bought 47.2 percent, versus the
10-sale average of 35.5 percent. Direct bidders bought a record
high 17.1 percent.  The Treasury announced that it will sell $35 billion in
two-year notes, the same amount of five-year debt and $29
billion of seven-year notes in auctions beginning Aug. 23. The
amounts are the same as last month’s offerings.  New York Fed President William C. Dudley said the central
bank’s commitment on Aug. 9 to keep its benchmark interest rate
near zero through at least mid-2013 should help spur growth.  Dudley’s View  After the Fed’s pledge, “market interest rates generally
moved lower, which should help provide some additional support
for economic activity and jobs,” Dudley said today in  Newark ,
New Jersey. “I would note, however, that conditions remain
unsettled and the equity market in particular has been quite
volatile recently.”  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke may announce policy intentions
at a conference in Jackson Hole,  Wyoming , on Aug. 26.  In response to audience questions after his address, Dudley
said the central bank always keeps an eye on the performance of
U.S. and foreign banks, not monitoring one group more than the
other. The Fed is “always scrutinizing” domestic and foreign
banks in terms of capital levels, Dudley said.  U.S. regulators are stepping up scrutiny of American
operations of Europe’s largest banks on concern the euro
region’s sovereign-debt crisis may lead to funding problems, the
Wall Street Journal reported. The New York Fed has been holding
talks with the lenders and sought information about their access
to funds, said the newspaper, citing people it didn’t identify.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  