-- 
Treasury Bets on Inflation Drop Before Data on Inflation, Jobless Claims

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-08-18T02:57:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/treasury-bets-on-inflation-drop-before-data-on-inflation-jobless-claims.html
Treasury market bets on inflation
were one basis point away from an eight-month low before a
government report that economists said will show the cost of
living in the U.S. barely rose in July.  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt, was 2.14
percentage points. The spread narrowed to 2.13 percentage points
yesterday, the least since December. The government is scheduled
to sell $12 billion of five-year TIPS today.  “Yields will stay low,” said Sungjin Park, who heads the
$57.9 billion debt division in  Seoul  at Samsung Asset Management
Co.,  South Korea ’s largest private bond investor. “The economy
will be slower than before. Inflation will be slower.”  Benchmark 10-year rates were little changed at 2.17 percent
as of 11:50 a.m. in  Tokyo , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices. The 2.125 percent note due in August 2021 traded at 99
19/32. The record low yield was 2.0346 percent on Aug. 9.  Consumer prices excluding volatile food and fuel costs
climbed 0.2 percent, the smallest gain in three months,
according to the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Other reports today will show the number of
claims for jobless benefits and sales of existing homes rose,
separate surveys show.  Japan ’s 10-year rate slid two basis points to 1 percent,
approaching this year’s low of 0.975 percent set Aug. 9, after a
government report showed exports fell more than expected in July.  Inflation Protection  U.S. five-year TIPS yield negative 0.87 percent, compared
with negative 0.18 percent at the last auction of the securities
on April 21. Investors bid for 2.57 times the amount of debt
offered four months ago, versus the average of 2.61 for the past
10 auctions. Indirect bidders, the investor class that includes
foreign central banks, bought 39.5 percent, versus the 10-sale
average of 35.5 percent.  TIPS have surged this year, reflecting concern among some
investors that costs in the economy will pick up in the coming
decades as the  Federal Reserve  works to spur growth. Demand for
the securities pushed yields on the five-year notes into
negative territory in February.  The investment provides insurance against quickening
inflation because holders receive interest payments based on
principal that increases as the  consumer price index  rises.  U.S. inflation-protected securities returned 13 percent in
2011, versus 7.18 percent for conventional Treasuries, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes show.  The Fed pledged on Aug. 9 to keep its target for overnight
bank lending at a record low through the middle of 2013.  Debt Auctions  The Treasury Department is also scheduled to announce today
the sizes of two-, five- and seven-year auctions scheduled for
next week. The sales will probably total $99 billion, the same
as when the government issued these securities in July,
according to Wrightson ICAP LLC, which is based in  Jersey City ,
 New Jersey , and specializes in  government finance .  The extra yield Treasury investors get to hold 30-year
bonds instead of two-year notes approached a 10-month low
yesterday on speculation the U.S. economic recovery is stalling.  The price of 30-year Treasuries advanced as much as two
points as stocks pared gains in  New York .  “There is risk capital that is finding its way into the
 bond market  and grabbing whatever yield it can,” said Steven Ricchiuto, chief economist in New York at Mizuho Securities USA
Inc., one of the 20 primary dealers that trade with the Federal
Reserve. “It’s the economic scenario. People are not
comfortable.”  The difference between yields on two-year notes and 30-year
bonds shrank to 3.37 percentage points yesterday. The spread was
as small as 3.33 percentage points on Aug. 10, which was the
least since October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 