-- 
Threat of Pirates Forces Re-Route of Sailing Race Around World

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-08-18T16:00:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/threat-of-somali-pirates-forces-re-routing-of-sailing-race-around-world.html
The threat of piracy in the  Indian
Ocean  forced the  Volvo Ocean Race  to reroute part of its 39,000-
nautical-mile sail around the world, race organizers said today.  The announcement comes less than a week after a Maltese
bulk carrier and its 21 crew members were released by Somali
pirates following six months in captivity.  “This has been an incredibly difficult decision,” Knut
Frostad, the race director, said in a news release. “We have
consulted leading naval and commercial intelligence experts and
their advice could not have been clearer: ‘Do not risk it.’”  Marine piracy, particularly in the waters off the coast of
Somalia, resulted in a record 1,181 seafarers kidnapped last
year, according to figures provided by  Dryad Maritime
Intelligence . The most recent victims were held for an average
of 213 days, and an estimated $150 million was paid to pirates
last year in ransoms for ships, cargoes and crews, according to
the release.  Boats were scheduled to sail through an East African
corridor in the Indian Ocean on the race’s second leg from  Cape
Town ,  South Africa , to  Abu Dhabi ,  United Arab Emirates , and on
the third leg from Abu Dhabi to Sanya,  China . Yachts are an easy
target for pirates because they are slow and sit low in the
water, according to the release.  Boats will now sail from Cape Town to an undisclosed port,
then be transported closer to Abu Dhabi to complete the second
leg. A similar process will be conducted on the third leg. Race
organizers declined to comment on how much it would cost to
transport the boats.  “We continue to be the only continuous sporting event to
visit five continents over nine months of grueling sailing,”
Frostad said.  He said race organizers consulted with the sport’s
governing body, the International Sailing Federation, as well as
marine safety experts before making their decision.  The competition was founded as the Whitbread Round the
World Race in 1973. The latest edition of the 10-stop race is
scheduled to begin in  Spain  on Oct. 29 and conclude in Ireland
in July 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 