-- 
RIM Said in Talks to Start BlackBerry Music App With Labels

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-08-18T23:00:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/rim-said-in-talks-to-start-blackberry-music-app-with-labels.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM)  is in
negotiations with record labels to introduce a music service for
its BlackBerry smartphone to challenge  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , two people
familiar with RIM’s plans said.  The service would allow users to collect and share music
with friends through an application on their phones, said the
people, who wouldn’t be identified because the talks aren’t
public. The service, which will run with RIM’s BlackBerry
Messenger instant-messaging system, may be announced in the next
few days, the people said.  RIM is negotiating with major record labels, which include
Warner Music Group,  Universal Music Group , EMI Group Ltd. and
 Sony Music Entertainment .  RIM is looking for ways to capitalize on the popularity of
BlackBerry Messenger, which comes free on all BlackBerrys and
has about 45 million users, to stop a decline in market share.
The company’s share of the global smartphone market fell to 12
percent in the second quarter from 19 percent a year earlier,
according to Gartner. Over the same period, Apple climbed to 18
percent from 14 percent, and devices based on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Android gained rose to 43 percent of the market, Gartner said.  Marisa Conway, a spokeswoman for RIM, said the company
doesn’t comment on rumors or speculation. Will Tanous, a Warner
Music spokesman; Brian Garrity, a Sony Music spokesman; and
Roberta Thomson, a spokeswoman for EMI Group, declined to
comment. Peter Lofrumento, a spokesman for Universal, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment.  CNET reported  that RIM was in talks with record labels
today.  RIM fell $1.03, or 3.8 percent, to $25.76 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock has dropped
56 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  