-- 
Rubber Recovers Losses as Economic Concern Counters Declining Thai Supply

-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 
2011-08-18T08:16:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/rubber-futures-in-tokyo-may-decline-as-falling-oil-price-reduces-appeal.html
Rubber recovered earlier losses as
concerns over the debt crisis and falling crude  oil prices  were
countered by worries about declining supply in Thailand, the
largest producer.  The January-delivery contract declined as much as 0.4
percent to 360.8 yen a kilogram ($4,707 a metric ton) before
settling little changed at 362.2 yen a kilogram on the  Tokyo 
Commodity Exchange.  Asian stocks fell for the first time in four days as the
yen rose toward a post-World War II high and two Federal Reserve
officials said they opposed a pledge to keep U.S. interest rates
at record lows. Oil fell as much as 1 percent to $86.70 a barrel.  “Rubber moves in tandem with negative oil prices,” Ker Chung Yang, an analyst at Phillip Futures Pte, said by phone
from  Singapore . The stronger Japanese currency also reduced the
appeal of yen-denominated contracts, he said.  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s pledge last week
to keep rates near zero until mid-2013 was “inappropriate
policy at an inappropriate time,”  Charles Plosser , president of
the Fed Bank of Philadelphia, said yesterday in a Bloomberg
radio interview. Dallas President  Richard Fisher  said the
central bank shouldn’t enact policy to protect stock investors.
Both officials dissented from the Fed’s Aug. 9 statement.  Japan Exports  “The European debt crisis and a global economic slowdown
remain a concern, putting pressure on the rubber market,” said
Chaiwat Muenmee, an analyst at Bangkok-based commodity broker DS
Futures Co.  Japan’s exports fell more than expected in July as a global
slowdown and a strengthening currency weigh on the outlook for
the nation’s sales overseas. Exports decreased 3.3 percent in
July from a year earlier, the  Finance Ministry  said today in
Tokyo. The median estimate of 24 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was for a 2.6 percent decline, after a 1.6
percent decrease in June.  The world’s third-largest economy is counting on an export
revival to aid its rebound from the record earthquake in March.
The yen’s 6 percent advance against the dollar in the past three
months may weigh on overseas sales at a time when demand from
major markets such as  China  and the U.S. is faltering. The yen
traded at 76.54 per dollar. The currency’s postwar high is 76.25.  Rains covered 60 percent of Thai south, disrupting latex
tapping and reducing supply, Rubber Research Institute of
 Thailand  said on its website today. The south produces about 80
percent of the country’s supply. The cash price of Thai rubber
declined 0.4 percent to 138.80 baht ($4.66) a kilogram today,
according to the institute.  In Shanghai, rubber for January delivery dropped 1 percent
to close at 33,745 yuan ($5,283) a ton on the Shanghai Futures
Exchange.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  