-- 
Russia Stocks Drop Most in Week on Oil; Micex Has Technical Halt

-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 
2011-08-18T15:34:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/russia-stocks-drop-most-in-week-on-oil-micex-has-technical-halt.html
Russian stocks plunged the most in a
week as oil tumbled after worse-than-expected U.S. data spurred
concern the global recovery will founder. The benchmark Micex
Index was halted for more than an hour for “technical
reasons.”  The 30-stock Micex retreated 3.7 percent to 1,452.83 by the
6:45 p.m. close in Moscow, its steepest slide since Aug. 10. OAO
Gazprom Neft, an oil producer, lost 4.1 percent, while OAO
Severstal, the country’s biggest steelmaker, dropped 6 percent.
OAO Sberbank,  Russia ’s largest lender, sank 6.2 percent. The
dollar-denominated RTS Index fell 4.8 percent to 1,584.20.  Crude for September delivery slipped as much as 5.8 percent
to $82.54 a barrel in New York. U.S. data showed initial jobless
claims unexpectedly rose and Philadelphia-area manufacturing
shrank by the most in more than two years, while hopes for more
economic stimulus from the  Federal Reserve  receded.  “Things could get worse,” Peter Westin, chief strategist
at Aton Capital in Moscow, said by phone. “Debt concerns in
America and  Europe  remain. We were oversold after the turmoil
and there was a recovery, but nothing materially has changed.”  The Micex stopped  stock trading  for more than an hour for
“technical reasons,” spokesman Nikita Bekasov said by phone
from Moscow.  “Confusion” caused by the halt, “compounds the
uncertainty we’re already suffering from on the global front,”
Julian Rimmer, a trader of Russian shares at CF Global Trading
in  London , said by phone.  China  Growth  The Micex slumped 7.3 percent last week after  Standard &
Poor’s  downgraded the U.S. credit rating for the first time and
Europe’s debt crisis spread. The gauge has dropped 14 percent
since the start of the year and currently trades at 4.2 times
earnings. That compares with a 24 percent slide for Brazil’s
Bovespa Index, which trades at 8 times earnings, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  OAO GNK Norilsk Nickel, Russia’s largest mining company,
lost 3 percent to 6,504 rubles.  Copper fell in London after Morgan Stanley and Deutsche
Bank AG reduced forecasts for economic growth worldwide and in
China, the biggest consumer of the metal. Copper futures for
December delivery slid 6.6 cents, or 1.6 percent, to $3.987 a
pound at 10:19 a.m. on the Comex in  New York . Copper, lead,
nickel and tin also declined on the London Metal Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran  at 
 Jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  