-- 
Russian Ruble Depreciates Most in a Week Versus Dollar as Crude Retreats

-- B y   J a c k   J o r d a n   a n d   D e n i s   M a t e r n o v s k y
-- 
2011-08-18T15:38:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/russian-ruble-heads-for-biggest-drop-versus-dollar-in-a-week-as-oil-dips.html
The ruble fell the most against the
dollar in more than a week as oil,  Russia ’s chief export earner,
tumbled from a two-day high.  The Russian currency depreciated 1.3 percent to 29.11 per
dollar at the 7 p.m. close in Moscow, its biggest daily fall
since Aug. 9. It declined 0.4 percent to 41.72 per euro, its
weakest close since Aug. 11.  Oil futures fell the most in more than a week after Morgan
Stanley and Deutsche Bank AG cut their forecasts for global
economic expansion, stoking concern over demand for the
commodity. The September contract lost 4.8 percent to $83.40 a
barrel.  “The ruble is severely affected by the risk-off
environment that reflects concerns about the EU sovereign debt
crisis,”  Benoit Anne , head of emerging-markets strategy at
Societe Generale SA in  London , said by e-mail. “It’s also
poorly positioned as a commodity-related currency, given the
serious mark-down in the global growth outlook.”  Non-deliverable forwards show the currency at 29.47 per
dollar in three months compared with 29.2519 yesterday. The
contracts provide a guide to expectations about currency
movements and interest-rate differentials and enable companies
to hedge against currency swings.  The movements against the dollar and the euro left the
ruble down 0.8 percent at 34.7845 against the central bank’s
target currency basket, which is used to manage swings that hurt
Russian exporters. The basket is calculated by multiplying the
dollar’s rate to the ruble by 0.55, the euro to ruble rate by
0.45, then adding them together.  “We are going to see a level well over 35 against the
basket pretty soon” because of the ruble’s “poor track record
at times of market stress,” Anne wrote in an e-mailed research
note.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jack Jordan in Moscow at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net ;
Denis Maternovsky in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  