-- 
S&P, Moody’s Mortgage-Security Ratings Are Said to Face U.S. Investigation

-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 
2011-08-18T21:45:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/s-p-moody-s-mortgage-security-ratings-are-said-to-face-u-s-investigation.html
The U.S.  Justice Department  is
probing Moody’s Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s over
ratings of mortgage-backed securities, according to three former
employees who said they were interviewed by investigators.  Washington-based lawyers from the Justice Department spoke
to former employees as recently as last month about whether the
companies raised their grades for the complex investments in
order to win business, said the former employees, who asked for
anonymity because the investigation is ongoing. The inquiry is a
civil matter, two of them said.  The probe is the latest of dozens of government
investigations and investor lawsuits targeting Moody’s and S&P,
a unit of McGraw-Hill Cos., all based in New York, over the top
grades they assigned to bonds backed by subprime mortgages. Even
as the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission called them “key
enablers of the financial meltdown,” the raters avoided legal
liability, according to Benchmark Co.’s Edward Atorino.  “People have been poking around Moody’s and McGraw-Hill
forever,” Atorino, a New York-based analyst, said in a
telephone interview. “They haven’t found the smoking gun yet.”  The Justice Department has been contacting analysts to
discuss mortgage-bond ratings since 2009, the former employees
said. In May, Senator  Carl Levin , the Michigan Democrat who
chairs the  Permanent Subcommittee  on Investigations, referred
the results of a probe into mortgage bonds, credit ratings and
the financial crisis to the agency.  ‘Dark Clouds’  Terry McGraw, the chief executive officer of S&P’s parent
company, said on a July 28 conference call with analysts that 30
lawsuits against the rater have been dismissed or dropped and
that he’s seeing “those dark clouds go away.” Judges have
ruled that the ratings are opinions, protected by the right to
free speech, according to Sean Egan, president of Egan-Jones
Ratings Co.  “To date, the freedom of speech defense has worked,” Egan
said in a telephone interview. “If there’s evidence that a
ratings firm intentionally issued an inflated rating and the
effect was to defraud somebody then I think it would be a
completely different matter.”  S&P is also being scrutinized by the Securities and
Exchange Commission over its decision to strip the U.S. of its
top AAA rating on Aug. 5, according to a person with direct
knowledge of the matter.  Ed Sweeney , a spokesman for S&P, said
the firm has “received several requests from different
government agencies over the last few years regarding U.S.
mortgage-related securities.” S&P has cooperated with the
requests, he said.  ‘Race to the Bottom’  Michael Adler , a spokesman for Moody’s, declined to
comment, as did  Charles Miller , a Justice Department spokesman.  S&P, Moody’s and  Fitch Ratings  engaged in a “race to the
bottom” to assign top grades to mortgage-backed securities at
the request of the banks that paid them, Levin’s panel said in
an April report. The inflated ratings helped fuel the worst
financial crisis since the Great Depression, which caused $2.1
trillion in losses and writedowns at the world’s biggest
financial institutions, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Maybe a Justice Department investigation will force
action on the conflicts of interest problem and accomplish what
should have been done a long time ago,” Senator  Charles Grassley , an Iowa Republican, said today in a statement. Jill Gerber, a spokeswoman for the senator, said he was commenting on
a New York Times report and didn’t have direct knowledge of any
probe.  Analysts Pressured?  The Justice Department investigators asked whether S&P
executives pressured analysts to change ratings in order to get
more business, according to one of the former employees. He said
the investigators asked about e-mails released by Levin’s panel,
including one in which an S&P manager asked analysts whether
criteria for rating collateralized debt obligations could be
loosened to avoid losing business to Moody’s.  “We are meeting with your group this week to discuss
adjusting criteria for rating CDOs of real estate assets this
week because of the ongoing threat of losing deals,” the
manager wrote in an Aug. 17, 2004 e-mail posted on the Senate
website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in  New York  at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 