-- 
Sage Group Said to Be Near Acquisition of Australian Software Maker MYOB

-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-08-19T07:12:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/sage-group-is-said-to-be-near-acquisition-of-australia-software-maker-myob.html
Sage Group Plc (SGE) , the U.K.’s biggest
software maker, is close to buying Australia’s MYOB Pty Ltd.,
potentially the largest acquisition in its history, said two
people with knowledge of the matter.  The deal may be announced as early as today, said the
people, who declined to be identified because negotiations are
private. Melbourne-based MYOB, owned by buyout firms  Archer
Capital  and HarbourVest Partners LLC, may fetch about A$1.3
billion ($1.4 billion), according to one of the people. The deal
may still fall apart, one of the people said.  Sage, which has made at least 10 acquisitions since 2008,
disclosed its overtures to MYOB earlier this week. Providers of
business software and information technology services are
extending their global reach through acquisitions to get ahead
in technologies such as cloud computing.  Lucy Legh, a spokeswoman for  Newcastle Upon Tyne , England-
based Sage, declined to comment, while no one at HarbourVest was
available to comment. Archer Capital didn’t respond to a call
outside regular business hours. A spokeswoman for MYOB didn’t
immediately return an e-mail seeking comment.  Sage rose 4.4 pence, or 1.9 percent, to 236.1 pence as of
8:11 a.m. London trading.  In the past five years, there were more than 970 takeovers
of European software companies, amounting to over $31 billion in
deals, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The largest was
 SAP AG (SAP) ’s 2008 takeover of Business Objects SA. Buyers have paid
a median multiple of 10.8 times the targets’ earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, based on 70
deals.  Last month, Paris-based  Cap Gemini SA (CAP)  completed the
purchase of Prosodie SA, a maker of software for e-commerce and
telecommunications in a deal valued at 382 million euros ($547
million).  Sage Chief Executive Officer Guy Berruyer said in May that
acquisitions are “back on the agenda.” Sage’s biggest
acquisition so far was the $423 million purchase of Best
Software Inc. in 2000.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brett Foley in London at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
 Jacqueline Simmons  at   jackiem@bloomberg.net . 