-- 
Salesforce Sales Outlook Beats Estimates

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 
2011-08-18T20:50:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/salesforce-sales-outlook-beats-estimates.html
Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM)  forecast third-
quarter sales that beat analysts’ estimates as companies
increased spending on its online customer-management software.  Salesforce, the largest supplier of such software, said
earnings will be 30 cents to 31 cents a share in the current
period, excluding some items, on sales of $568 million to $570
million, according to a company statement. Analysts had
estimated an average profit of 31 cents and revenue on average
of $555.7 million for the San Francisco-based company, according
to a Bloomberg survey.  Salesforce is benefiting as customers purchase its
services, provided over the Internet, instead of installing
software programs on hardware they must buy and maintain, said
Brad Whitt, an analyst at Gleacher & Co. in  Dallas . Shifting to
programs provided over the Internet, known as cloud computing,
can help businesses reduce computing expenses, making it a
sensible move even if a slowdown forces cuts elsewhere, he said  “The big secular driver here is the move towards the cloud
and the economics associated with that,” said Whitt, who
recommends investors buy the stock. “In some cases you can
migrate to Salesforce for less than you’re paying for
maintenance.”  Salesforce reported fiscal second-quarter net loss of $4.27
million, compared with profit of $14.7 million a year earlier,
while revenue rose 38 percent to $546 million. Profit excluding
some items was 30 cents a share. Analysts had estimated 29
cents.  ‘Software as Service’  Companies rent applications from Salesforce over the
Internet, rather than purchasing them to install on their own
computers, an offering known as “software as a service.”
Gartner Inc.  projects  that software-as-a-service industry
revenue will grow 21 percent this year to $12.1 billion.  Salesforce is adding services that allow companies to
monitor social media websites like that from Twitter Inc. and
interact with their customers. The company may discuss the
prospects for those programs at its annual  Dreamforce
conference , which begins Aug. 30, Whitt said.  The presence of consulting firms  Accenture Plc (ACN)  and Deloitte
LLP as major sponsors of Dreamforce may be a positive sign for
Salesforce. That’s because those companies can encourage clients
to use Salesforce’s products, Whitt said.  The shares dropped $12.25, or 9.7 percent, to $114.06, as
of 4 p.m.  New York  time. The stock has declined 14 percent on
the New York Stock Exchange this year, while the  Standard &
Poor’s  500 index has fallen 9.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles@bloomberg.net . 