-- 
Secret to Productivity Found at Busy Auto Plant: Syverson, Levitt & List

-- B y   C h a d   S y v e r s o n ,   S t e v e n   L e v i t t   a n d   J o h n   L i s t
-- 
2011-08-18T23:54:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/secret-to-productivity-found-at-busy-auto-plant-syverson-levitt-list.html
Where do  productivity  gains come
from? Economists have known for decades that the broadest
measure of efficiency -- known as  total factor productivity  --
drives long-term income growth and prosperity. Progress occurs
as firms figure out how to boost output without having to hire
more workers or install more capital.  If total factor productivity sounds like something of a
black box -- a quasi-magical ingredient that creates output out
of seemingly nothing -- well, it sort of is. Sure, economists
have some ideas about its sources: adoption of new technologies,
better management practices, and improvements in production
chains. But a more detailed understanding is emerging.  In a  recent study , we focused on a major automobile
assembly plant and the evolution of its production-defect rate
in the course of a year. We reviewed production records for
almost 200,000 vehicles. That inquiry allowed us to dig deep
into an oft-cited source of productivity growth: learning by
doing.  As the name implies, learning by doing is achieved through
production itself. Workers figure out how to do their jobs
better, managers allocate capital more efficiently, and so on.
Previous research focused on measuring how fast learning-related
productivity improves. Thanks to extraordinarily detailed data,
our study moves beyond showing that learning happens, and
instead explores the specific mechanisms through which it takes
place.  Production Snarls  For each car, we observed what sorts of production
problems, if any, occurred. We examined each of the several
hundred operations involved in assembly. We don’t reveal the
plant’s owner or location for confidentiality reasons.  We found clear evidence of learning by doing at the plant:
average  defects per car  fell more than 80 percent during the
production year. (The next time you buy a car, consider in which
part of the production year it was made.)  This pattern is
consistent with earlier research documenting big productivity
gains from learning.  What’s more interesting is how learning happened. For
example, this quality improvement didn’t come from addressing
just the most defect-prone processes, even though the most
troublesome 20 percent of processes accounted for 90 percent of
all defects. Instead, such rates fell about equally across the
board.  When the plant increased production of a new model variant,
the learning process started anew. This happened three times a
year, as the plant annually built a series of models on a common
chassis, staggering the start of each.  Negative Spillovers  Initial defect rates on a new model were well above those
on the designs already being produced. Quality improvements
occurred on new models at the same rate as for the earlier ones,
but some negative spillovers were involved. Defect rates on
vehicles already being produced rose temporarily during the
increase in production of new models, ramp-up, as resources were
redirected toward solving problems associated with the later
brands.  One of the clearest patterns in the data was that that most
“know-how capital” brought by learning wasn’t not bottled up
in the plant’s individual workers, but rather incorporated into
its physical or organizational capital. Two key pieces of
evidence point to this. When the plant’s second shift started
several weeks after the first one had begun, the second-shift
defect rates were no higher than those being experienced on the
first shift, even though most second-shift workers hadn’t yet
been on the line that year.  Similarly, while worker absences slightly raised defect
rates, their impact was, practically speaking, very small.
Something bigger than each worker’s experience was at play.
Broader changes, such as altering the layout of tools at the
workstations and regrouping the sequence of operations, made the
difference. Individual workers” suggestions quickly turned into
new institutional practices. Total factor productivity rose as
the plant adopted fresh ways of doing things.  It is important to recognize that our results reflect the
learning process at one plant, in one industry, at one time.
Some aspects of learning may work differently in other settings.
Nevertheless, we believe managers can draw insights from our
work and extend them to other production settings.  In business, swifter development and process improvements
represent key drivers of success. Opening the black box of
 productivity growth  to understand the sources of learning by
doing, rather than just assuming that learning happens by
itself, provides managers with guidance on ways to gain
operational efficiencies earlier when production is increased,
in the ramp-up process and offers insights into the underlying
sources of economic growth.  (Chad Syverson is a professor of economics at the
 University of Chicago ’s Booth School of Business. Steven Levitt
and John List are economics professors at the University of
Chicago.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Chad Syverson at  chad.syverson@chicagobooth.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
George Anders at   ganders1@bloomberg.net . 