-- 
Singapore Stocks: Global Logistic, Neptune Orient, STX Pan Ocean

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 
2011-08-18T09:27:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/singapore-stocks-olam-sembcorp-marine-stx-pan-ocean.html
Singapore ’s Straits Times Index lost
0.1 percent to 2,824.96 at the close, after swinging between
gains and losses at least six times. About the same number of
stocks rose and fell in the index of 30 companies.  The following shares were among the most active in the
market. Stock symbols are in parentheses after the company name.  Global Logistic Properties Ltd. (GLP)  , the operator of
logistics facilities in China and  Japan , gained 2.1 percent to
S$1.72. Lone Pine Capital LLC, the hedge fund run by Stephen F.
Mandel Jr., bought an additional 12.8 million shares of Global
Logistic, raising its stake 8.3 percent, according to a company
statement sent to the stocks exchange yesterday.  Neptune Orient Lines Ltd. (NOL SP),  Southeast Asia ’s
biggest container carrier, dropped 2.7 percent to S$1.09 on
speculation shipping lines won’t be able to increase rates
significantly in the second-half as shipments to U.S. weaken and
the industry faces excess capacity in trans-Pacific routes.  “Container ships to the U.S. West Coast are not filling
up, which leaves shipping companies with few bargaining chips
for imposing surcharges,” said Dong Jinghua, general manager of
Shenzhen Continents International Forwarding Co., which arranges
about 300 container shipments a month. “Most lines are taking a
wait-and-see attitude because those that act first may risk
losing customers.”  STX Pan Ocean Co. (STX SP),  South Korea ’s biggest bulk
carrier, added 0.8 percent to S$7.87. The company said it plans
to raise 150 billion won ($140 million), selling three-year
bonds with a coupon rate of 5.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 