-- 
Singing, Dancing Anti-Semites Slay Businessman: London Theater

-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 
2011-08-18T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/singing-dancing-anti-semites-lynch-businessman-in-london-musical-review.html
A child murder trial, a lynching,
and cakewalking anti-Semites are the unlikely ingredients of the
musical “Parade,” playing under a Victorian railway arch near
 London Bridge .  The 1998 show, with music and lyrics by Jason Robert Brown
and a book by Alfred Uhry (“Driving  Miss Daisy ”), tells the
real-life story of Jewish businessman Leo Frank. In 1913, amid a
wave of anti-Jewish hysteria, he was found guilty of murdering a
girl in the U.S. state of  Georgia . After his death sentence was
commuted to  life imprisonment , he was lynched in 1915 by a mob
of blood-hungry southerners.  Frank was granted a pardon in 1986.  The play is staged in  Southwark Playhouse , a small theater
with big ambitions, converted from a railway arch. The tunnel-
shaped space, with traverse seating, ensures a suitable
atmosphere of intensity and claustrophobia.  Thom Southerland’s period-costume production is a cracking
piece of work with a lean aesthetic. A few tables and a bench
represent a courthouse. A single flag and a rousing anthem
conjure up all the tub-thumping energy of a Confederate Memorial
Day parade. Scenes flow into each other seamlessly.  Ensemble numbers, choreographed by Tim Jackson, show
prejudice and vitriol burning ever more fiercely as the action
progresses. When the verdict is given, the trial spectators
burst into a jubilant angry cakewalk. Cynical newspaperman Britt
Craig (David Haydn) whips his readers into a whirling frenzy
with his yellow prose.  Northern Outsider  Alastair Brookshaw holds it all together as the northerner
Leo Frank. He begins the show as an over-fastidious outsider.
His movements are brittle, his manner self-protective, his
relationship with his wife Lucille strained.  As Frank’s agony increases, so does his love for the brave
and loyal Lucille (a powerful performance from Laura Pitt-
Pulford). Their reconciliatory duet “This Is Not Over Yet”
provides the emotional core of the show.  It’s a shame that that core takes a bit too long to reveal
itself. Act 1 is mainly taken up with the trial, which is shown
to be riddled with corruption.  There’s no doubting whose side the writers are on, and
while that’s great for polemic, it’s less great for drama.
Frank’s defense isn’t represented at all during the trial,
suggesting that book writer Uhry wants to squeeze the maximum
possible martyrdom, rather than interesting complexity, out of
his character.  Angry Blues  Musically, too, the default mode is earnestness. Sometimes
it works. A tender funeral hymn is undercut with dissonant
chords to indicate simmering violence. A chain-gang blues, sung
by black convict Jim Conley (Terry Doe, superb), is full of
passion and anger. Musical Director  Michael Bradley  and a seven-
piece band keep things dramatic and taut.  All those heart-on-sleeve outpourings still make you long
for a surprise reaction, a flip side, a burst of inappropriate
laughter -- something like the joyous cannibalistic waltz that
closes Act 1 of “Sweeney Todd,” or the murderous “Cell Block
Tango” in “ Chicago .”  Still, it’s churlish to criticize a musical for what it’s
not rather than what it is, especially when there’s plenty
that’s good. And in Southerland’s tight, clear production, it
marks Southwark Playhouse as a theater punching above its weight
with exciting results. Rating: ***.  “Parade” is at Southwark Playhouse, London, through Sept.
17. Information:  http://www.southwarkplayhouse.co.uk  or
+44-20-7407-0234.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  
To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in  London , at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at  mbeech@bloomberg.net  or. 