-- 
Singapore Curry Protest Heats Up Vote With Facebook Campaign

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-08-19T07:45:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/singapore-curry-protest-heats-up-vote.html
The four candidates competing to
become  Singapore ’s next president are losing out to an unlikely
rival on the campaign trail: curry.  As the contenders vie for the mainly ceremonial role before
the Aug. 27 election, more than 57,000 people have pledged their
support for a Facebook page urging citizens to cook curry this
weekend. The online protest began after the Today newspaper said
a Singaporean family was pressured by its migrant Chinese
neighbors to stop cooking the dish because of the smell.  The furor generated by the incident reflects increasing
voter discontent over immigration in the nation, where 35
percent of the population of 5.1 million people are foreigners.
Complaints that a surge in foreign workers is depriving locals
of jobs and driving up  home prices  helped opposition parties
achieve record support in the May general election.  “I didn’t expect it to go viral,” said Flor Leow, a
Singaporean of mixed ancestry in her 40s who started the “Cook
and Share a Pot of Curry” page with friends and plans to make
fish and chicken curries on Aug. 21. “We put up the event to
say ‘let’s not argue, let’s not quarrel, let’s learn to tolerate,
embrace and appreciate our multicultural way of life.’”  The Facebook sites of the four presidential candidates have
attracted about a third the number of endorsements garnered by
the curry campaign.  ‘Salient Unhappiness’  More than 2 million citizens in the former British colony
will vote for a new president, providing an indirect test of
support for Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong’s policies less than
four months after his government returned to power with the
smallest share of votes since independence in 1965.  The race, which will decide the replacement for President
S.R. Nathan, has the most contenders since direct elections for
the office were allowed in 1991. At least two of the candidates
have spoken of the need to put “Singaporeans first” in
policies.  “The theme of putting Singaporeans first will be a key
feature of the candidates given the current political climate
and the very salient unhappiness with the immigration policy,”
said Eugene Tan, a political commentator and assistant professor
of law at the  Singapore Management University . “The candidate
that can impress on Singaporeans about how he is going to use
the office of the President to promote a Singaporean First
mindset will gain traction.”  Immigration Policy  Of the candidates, Tony Tan, 71, is a former deputy prime
minister who has served in ministerial roles under Lee and his
two predecessors. Tan Kin Lian was chief executive officer of
insurer NTUC Income, and Tan Cheng Bock was a member of
parliament for the ruling party. All three were members of Lee’s
People’s Action Party. The fourth is Tan Jee Say, a former civil
servant and, most recently, an opposition politician.  Singapore’s president has the responsibility of
safeguarding the national reserves and is given veto rights on
government budgets and key appointments to public office. The
successful candidate will hold the office for a six-year term.  The island’s government has encouraged hundreds of
thousands of foreigners to take up citizenship or permanent
residency to spur growth and arrest a declining birth rate. Of
Singapore’s 3.8 million citizens and permanent residents, 74.1
percent are ethnic Chinese, 13.4 percent are Malay and 9.2
percent are Indian.  In his annual National Day rally speech this week, Lee said
he would boost the supply of public housing and allow more
Singaporeans to buy apartments directly from the state housing
authority at subsidized prices. Singapore would also tighten
curbs on some foreign workers by requiring better educational
qualifications and higher salary thresholds, he said.  Property Stocks  The housing measures may restrain demand for private
residential property, Lock Mun Yee, an analyst at DBS Group
Holdings Ltd. in Singapore, said in an Aug. 15 research note.
Demand for private homes may fall as much as 10 percent in the
“medium term” and housing prices may moderate over the next 18
to 24 months, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in an Aug. 16 report,
citing a “more restrained approach towards  population growth .”  Shares of  CapitaLand Ltd. (CAPL) ,  Southeast Asia ’s biggest
developer based in Singapore, have fallen 37 percent in the past
year as of yesterday’s close, compared with a 3.2 percent
decline in the benchmark  Straits Times Index. (FSSTI)  City Developments
Ltd., the island’s second-biggest homebuilder by market value,
has dropped 14 percent in the same period.  “We remain neutral on the sector and see more risk to
stocks with the greatest exposure to the mass market segment
such as City Developments,” DBS said.  Depressed Wages  The opposition Workers’ Party argues that large numbers of
foreign laborers have depressed local wages. The government
reduced the inflow of immigrants last year and has increased
levies imposed on companies such as  Sembcorp Marine Ltd. (SMM)  and
Genting Singapore Plc for hiring non-Singaporeans.  “Those days of abundant cheap labor are clearly over,”
said  Selena Ling , head of treasury research at Oversea-Chinese
Banking Corp. in Singapore. “Companies have to tread nimbly if
they want to operate here.”  The  World Bank  ranks Singapore as the easiest country in
which to do business, and investors including  Jim Rogers , the
chairman of Rogers Holdings who moved to the city in 2007, say
the Southeast Asian nation needs to maintain that track record.  “Singapore is the greatest success story in the past 40
years for a country,” Rogers said in an e-mail on Aug. 17. “If
Singapore closes up, it’s the beginning of the end.”  Curry Noodles  The latest backlash against foreigners began when Today
reported Aug. 8 on a migrant Chinese family’s complaint about
the smell from curry cooked by their Singaporean ethnic-Indian
neighbors. The case went to a community mediation center and the
local family agreed it wouldn’t cook curry when the Chinese
neighbors were at home, according to the second most-read
newspaper published by state-owned broadcaster MediaCorp Pte.  Curry in its various forms is a popular dish in Singapore,
from the Chinese curry-flavored noodles and fish-head soups, to
Indian masala dishes and Malay pastries.  The administrators of the Facebook group have appealed for
civility. Still, some of the postings turned the acronym for
“foreign talent,” the government’s term for non-Singaporean
workers in white-collar jobs, into “foreign trash.”  Emotions have “run high” after the Today newspaper
article this month, Law Minister K. Shanmugam said Aug. 16,
explaining that the case happened six or seven years ago.  Singapore’s population has grown about a fifth since 2004.  “We must always put the interests of Singaporeans and
Singapore first,” Tony Tan, the presidential candidate and
former deputy chairman of the sovereign wealth fund managing the
country’s reserves, said July 19. “While putting Singaporeans
first, we should not make it too difficult for international
talent to come to Singapore.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  