-- 
Social Game Company Valuations ’Out of Whack,’ Activision Says

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 
2011-08-18T13:25:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/social-game-company-valuations-out-of-whack-activision-publishing-says.html
Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI) , the
world’s largest video-games maker, said today that valuations of
makers of games for social platforms such as Facebook Inc. are
very high, limiting Activision’s appetite for purchases.  “Valuations of some of the companies in that space are out
of whack, so that’s an issue when it comes to acquisitions”
Activision Publishing Chief Executive Officer Eric Hirshberg
said today in an interview at the Gamescom video-games fair in
Cologne,  Germany , when asked if the company will make purchases
to get into social gaming.  Zynga Inc., which has 232 million active monthly users for
titles including “Farmville,” is valued at $13.8 billion on
 SharesPost Inc.  Rovio Entertainment Oy, whose “Angry Birds”
game has been downloaded more than 300 million times to
computers and mobile phones, may be valued at “several billion
dollars,” executive Peter Vesterbacka said, according to
Finnish business daily newspaper Kauppalehti this week.  Electronic Arts Inc. (ERTS) , the world’s second largest video-
games maker, has made a number of acquisitions to boost revenue
from social and mobile games. Activision will bring more games
onto more platforms, including mobile devices and social
networks, Hirshberg said.  By 2013, revenue from games that can be played online or on
a mobile device will jump 50 percent to $32.6 billion,
overtaking those of console games for the first time, according
to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  “We haven’t made any formal announcements,” for games
that will be released on Facebook, Hirschberg said. “But don’t
mistake careful, methodical planning for inaction. Any new place
where people are playing games, at scale, is something that
we’re interested in.”  Activision  Social Network   Meanwhile, Activision is introducing a social network for
players of the “Call of Duty” shooter game this fall with
“Call of Duty Elite,” as connecting with friends and players
across the world is becoming increasingly important to users.  The franchise has about 30 million players, and they are
playing “a mindboggling number of hours, online, in a connected
way, with people all across the world, yet there’s currently no
way to unlock that very active social network, to interact,”
Hirshberg said.  “If you look at other forms of entertainment, there’s lots
of ways to connect,” such as sports statistics sites where
people create fantasy leagues, Hirshberg said. The “vast
majority” of the service will be free. Pricing for premium
membership will be announced in September, he said.  Online Films  With “Call of Duty Elite,” players will be able to
control who they play with, they can join groups of people that
share their interests, that share their skill level, and
Activision will arrange community-wide tournaments. In addition,
the players will have access to so-called webisodes, small films
based on the games and aired online.  Activision is joining forces with actors and movie makers.
“We’re working with people like Will Arnett, who is a big ‘Call
of Duty’ gamer,  Jason Bateman , another gamer, and executive
producers Ridley and Tony Scott, creating new webisodic
entertainment that will be exclusively available to the
community,” Hirshberg said.  Yesterday, Jens Uwe Intat, head of EA’s European
operations, said the company is seeking to slash Activision’s
market share in shooter games from 90 percent in 2010 to as low
as 60 percent this year.  “It’s a battle between our ‘Battlefield’ and Activision’s
‘Call of Duty’-‘Modern Warfare 3,’” Intat said. “We are
certainly aiming for 30 percent to 40 perfect market share this
year.”  Hirshberg declined to comment on Intat’s remarks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in Frankfurt at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  