-- 
Solar Millennium Sinks After Switching Technology at Largest Solar Plant

-- B y   T o d d   W h i t e   a n d   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 
2011-08-18T16:18:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/solar-millennium-says-technology-switch-won-t-hurt-global-project-pipeline.html
Solar Millennium AG (S2M) , the German
developer of  power plants  using concentrated-solar technology,
fell the most in six years in  Frankfurt  after saying a rival
technology will be used on the world’s biggest solar project.  The shares plunged as much as 31 percent, and finished at
7.761 euros by the 5:30 p.m. close, the lowest since March 2009.
Solar Millennium, which is leading the project in a joint
venture, said in a  statement  that the plant near Blythe,
 California , will switch to using photovoltaic technology for at
least half of its generation capacity. The company had said in
May it planned to branch into photovoltaic projects as well.  “Blythe was the company’s master project that had
protected the stock until today,” Sebastian Zank, an analyst at
Sylvia Quandt Research in  London , said in a phone interview.
“Because of this turnaround, investors are losing trust in
Solar Millennium’s business model.”  Solar Millennium, which has projects in several countries
using concentrated-solar technology, will deploy photovoltaic
panels at the first 500-megawatt phase of the 1,000-megawatt
plant, the Erlangen-based company said. One thousand megawatts
of capacity is almost as big as the average reactor used in new
atomic plants.  The change was largely motivated by improved commercial
lending conditions and cheaper access to photovoltaic devices,
which have plunged in price per kilowatt-hour in recent years,
said Susanne Krebs, a spokeswoman for Solar Millennium.  International Pipeline  “We can produce higher margins in the U.S. by switching to
PV,” she said by phone from Erlangen. “We may go back to
concentrated solar for the second phase of the project.”  She also said  Blythe  would be realized faster by switching
to photovoltaic technology, which converts sunlight directly
into electricity. Concentrated solar, or solar thermal,
typically reflects sunlight with mirrors to heat liquid in
steam-powered generators.  With today’s share loss, the company has declined 65
percent this year, chopping its market value to 97 million euros
($139 million). Solar Millennium will announce its first-half
figures tomorrow, Krebs said.  Solar Millennium’s switch from the technology it
specializes in echoes a move from Tessera Solar. The unit of NTR
Plc, a Dublin-based energy and infrastructure company, sold its
two largest solar thermal projects to photovoltaic developers in
recent months. The decision casts a spotlight on the nascent
technology in the U.S., where similar plants with more than 22
gigawatts are planned, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance
data.  Solar Pipeline  Solar Millennium said in the statement the switch doesn’t
affect its “strong international pipeline” of solar projects
using a rival technology. It has plans for more than 2 gigawatts
of projects using parabolic mirrors, mainly in the U.S. and
 Spain . The company said in May it sought to develop photovoltaic
projects and thermal plants using other technologies, citing
“significant opportunities” in the sector.  The company “responds quickly and pragmatically to market
conditions, and at the moment the California market favors PV
technology,” Christoph Wolff, chief executive officer, said in
the statement. “We are taking decisive steps in the U.S. to
maximize site value for our company and our shareholders.”  Solar Millennium, whose biggest shareholder on June 30 was
Deutsche Bank AG’s unit DWS Investments SA with 2.2 percent,
according to Bloomberg data, is in talks with banks and
strategic investors to secure funds for the first phase of
Blythe, Krebs said. It’s also negotiating with international
photovoltaic suppliers to outfit the plant with cells, modules
and panels.  Switch in Strategy  The German company is developing the project in California
through the U.S. joint venture Solar Trust of America LLC, which
in May formed a company with photovoltaic developer  SolarHybrid
AG (SHL)  to build and operate solar plants in  North America .  The strategy change at Blythe comes as Solar Millennium is
facing an insider-trading probe by the German financial
regulator Bafin. The company expects the allegation to prove
unfounded, a spokeswoman said in an Aug. 16 e-mailed statement.
That same day, Solar Millennium appointed Martin Loeffler as
interim chief financial officer after his predecessor Oliver Blamberger left at his own request.  “While this morning’s announcement related to Blythe is a
major factor, it’s a combination of the recent news flow that is
to be blamed for this stock drop,” Lauren Licuanan, an analyst
at Commerzbank AG, said in a phone interview.  The Paris-based  International Energy Agency  forecasts that
solar-thermal plants will be able to compete with traditional
power sources during peak hours by about 2020 in the sunniest
areas and it will become viable as base-load electricity from
2025. The technology may provide as much as 11 percent of the
world’s power by 2050, the agency said.  To reach that scale, the industry will need governments to
offer a mix of tax breaks and subsidies and encourage utilities
to develop power networks because large cities and factories are
often far from the best solar sites.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Todd White in Madrid at 
 twhite2@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  