-- 
Xperia Owners Paying for Games on Phones, Sony Ericsson Says

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d   a n d   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-08-18T13:08:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/sony-ericsson-xperia-play-smartphone-entices-users-to-buy-games.html
More than 75 percent of people who
download games on the  Sony Ericsson  Xperia Play smartphone are
paying for them, as the second-largest Europe-based handset
maker targets a market that may reach $12.7 billion by 2015.  “It’s reversing a trend of a majority not paying for
games” in other application stores for mobile phones, Dominic
Neil-Dwyer, Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications AB’s head of
market development, said today in an interview at the Gamescom
conference in Cologne,  Germany .  The mobile-phone venture of Ericsson AB and  Sony Corp. (6758)  is
among companies betting that hardcore mobile gamers could push
sales of smartphones and mobile apps even higher. The Xperia
Play, which puts a slideout PlayStation keyboard on an Android
smartphone, was introduced last quarter at carriers including
 Verizon Wireless . Others targeting gamers include  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) , which is adding Xbox features to its Windows Phone 7
software, including the ability to bring player identities and
scores from play sessions on personal computers and televisions.  The Xperia Play has 150 game titles, some previously only 
available on consoles. Sony Ericsson-recommended games are free
or cost from 69 pence ($1.14) to 6.05 pounds and include titles 
from  Electronic Arts Inc. (ERTS) , the world’s second-largest maker of 
games, and GameLoft,  Europe ’s biggest maker of mobile-phone 
games.  Market Share  Sony Ericsson said it had about 11 percent of the market
for phones running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software in the second
quarter. It had a loss last quarter as sales of midrange feature
phones declined and the Japanese earthquake cut shipments. Its
rivals include Samsung Electronics Co., HTC Corp., and Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc., which Google this week agreed to buy for
$12.5 billion.  This year is the first that mobile-phone makers including
Sony Ericsson and  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  are attending Gamescom,
the world’s largest video-games fair. Sony Ericsson is
demonstrating “Reckless Getaway,” a new car-chase title
produced by Polarbit.  Global revenue from games for smartphones and tablets will
grow from $7.53 billion last year to $12.7 billion in 2015,
while sales of console games will rise from $28.1 billion to
$34.8 billion, according to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  This week, Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. announced a new
version of its portable handheld games player PSP for 99 euros
($142) in Europe. The current model costs 169 euros. Nintendo
Co. last month slashed the price of its 3DS portable console by
as much as 40 percent.  Microsoft, which boosted sales of its Xbox console after
introducing the movement detection sensor Kinect last year, is
also adding voice control that can work both in games and in the
Bing search engine on the console this Christmas.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in Frankfurt at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net ;
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  