-- 
South Africa Studies Tougher Mining Laws on Safety Concerns, Minister Says

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-08-18T14:56:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/south-african-minister-shabangu-says-concerned-as-mine-deaths-reach-76.html
South Africa  may strengthen mining
laws because companies are compromising worker safety as they
accelerate production amid rising commodity prices, according to
Mineral Resources Minister Susan Shabangu.  “Where there’re more profits, there is an increase in
fatalities,” Shabangu said today in an address to the  Cape Town 
Press Club. “We will not hesitate to stop unsafe mines in order
to save the lives of workers who inadvertently fall victim to
these lapses” in safety standards.  South Africa, where  Anglo American Plc (AAL) ,  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) 
and  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  operate, is the world’s largest
platinum producer and Africa’s biggest gold producer. Its mines
are among the world’s deepest, and labor-intensive methods have
made them some of the most dangerous. About 76 people died at
South African mines from Jan. 1 to Aug. 15, compared with 79 a
year earlier, government data show.  The ruling  African National Congress  is studying
nationalization of mines following calls by its youth wing.
Shabangu has resisted such a move, saying it may threaten
investment in the industry.  “I am surprised that while globally there is real concern
about the state of the world economy, with all countries chasing
investments to shore up their economies in a bid to drive growth
and create sustainable jobs, we are grappling with a debate
about nationalization,” she said. “We have seen some of the
mining investments going to other mining jurisdictions.”  Moratorium Extended  Separately, Shabangu announced a six-month extension to a
moratorium on issuing gas-exploration licenses in the Karoo
region, allowing the government more time to investigate the
implications of hydraulic fracturing, or fracking. A government
task force is due to deliver a report to the Cabinet next month.  In fracturing, millions of gallons of chemically treated
water and sand are forced underground to break up rock and allow
natural gas to flow. Advances in the technology have boosted the
production of gas from shale in recent years, particularly in
the U.S.  The government imposed the ban in April, after  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Europe ’s largest oil company, applied for permission
to drill about 24 wells in an area spanning about 90,000 square
kilometers (34,700 square miles).  Shell’s plans met opposition in the sheep- and game-farming
region, an arid stretch across central South Africa, from the
 Treasure the Karoo Action Group , which cited the potential for
environmental damage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 