-- 
South Africa’s Ruling Party Says Judiciary Mustn’t Undermine Parliament

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 
2011-08-18T09:21:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/south-africa-s-ruling-party-says-judiciary-mustn-t-undermine-parliament.html
A senior South African ruling party
official accused the country’s top court of overstepping its
mandate and warned it not to dabble in politics.  “You can’t have a judiciary that seeks to arrest the
functioning of government,”  Gwede Mantashe , secretary-general
of the  African National Congress , said an  interview  with the
Johannesburg-based Sowetan newspaper, according to a transcript
published today. The fact that the courts are independent “must
never be translated into hostility” toward the government.  The Constitutional Court has issued several recent
judgments against the government, including declaring its
decision to disband an anti-corruption unit known as the
Scorpions unlawful. It also ruled that President  Jacob Zuma ’s
attempt to extend former chief justice Sandile Ngcobo’s tenure
was unconstitutional.  The Scorpions decision “seeks to cast aspersions on the
work of Parliament,” Mantashe said. “Once you have that kind
of judgment that ventures into political weighting of views,
then it’s a slippery road we have embarked on.”  Mantashe described the court’s decision on the chief
justice as “suspicious,” saying Zuma’s offer to reappoint
Ngcobo was permissible under a law enacted a decade ago and its
legality had never been questioned.  Policy Determination  “We are getting close to a situation where Parliament
drafts legislation and refers it to the Constitutional Court
before passing it,” he said.  Zuma has also warned the courts not to involve themselves
in policy determination.  “Once government has decided on the appropriate policies,
the judiciary cannot, when striking down legislation or parts
thereof on the basis of illegality, raise that as an opportunity
to change the policies,” the president said in a July 8 speech
in Johannesburg. “We seek to respect the powers and role
conferred by our constitution on the legislature and the
judiciary. We expect the same from these very important
institutions.”  Some politicians don’t understand how the courts function
or relate to the government, William Gumede, a political analyst
at the University of the Witwatersrand, said today by phone from
Johannesburg.  “The Constitutional Court is there as a super-safeguard,”
he said. “It deals with constitutional issues brought to it and
only in very extraordinary case would it initiate debate. It is
worrying that this criticism might undermine the judiciary.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Latham in Johannesburg at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 