-- 
Sri Lanka to Beat India as Spending Counters Global Slowdown

-- B y   A n u s h a   O n d a a t j i e
-- 
2011-08-19T03:33:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/sri-lanka-growth-to-beat-india-as-spending-counters-global-slump.html
Sri Lanka’s economic growth is set
to outstrip  India ’s for the first time since 2000 as record
foreign investment and  government spending  fuel a resurgence
after almost three decades of civil war.  The island nation’s $50 billion gross domestic product will
increase 8.5 percent this year, up from 8 percent in 2010 and
bucking a global slowdown, Central Bank of Sri Lanka Deputy
Governor Dharma Dheerasinghe said. India’s $1.7 trillion economy,
 Asia ’s third-biggest, is likely to grow 8.2 percent in 2011
according to estimates by the  International Monetary Fund , the
slowest pace since 2009.  “We had problems during the last global recession, but it
was in the background of a war situation,” Dheerasinghe said in
a phone interview on Aug. 17 from the capital Colombo. “History
won’t repeat for  Sri Lanka . In the medium term, growth can even
be 9 percent.”  The return to peace in Sri Lanka is luring overseas money
and tourists back to the tear-drop shaped Indian Ocean island. A
$1 billion sale of sovereign dollar bonds last month was more
than seven times oversubscribed. President  Mahinda Rajapaksa ’s
government has pledged to spend $1 billion annually for at least
three years from 2010 on projects such as a coal-fired power
plant, a four-lane expressway and a container shipping hub.  Investors Undeterred  The global stock slide that wiped off $6 trillion in market
value since July 24, triggered by the U.S. credit downgrade and
a deepening European debt crisis, hasn’t deterred investors in
the island. The Colombo All-Share Index surged almost 10 percent
in the period, compared with a 12 percent slump in India’s
benchmark Sensitive Index.  The Sri Lanka gauge plunged 41 percent in 2008, the worst
on record, a year before government troops defeated the
separatist  Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam , ending the rebels’
quest for an independent state in the north and east. Post-war
growth helped make the index the world’s second-best performer
in 2010.  “The end of the 26-year conflict has brought a new-found
optimism that is boosting consumer and business confidence,”
said Samantha Amerasinghe, a Colombo-based economist at Standard
Chartered Plc. “Prospects look much brighter today and Sri
Lanka’s economic rebound remains intact despite the current
uncertain and challenging global environment.”  ‘Peace Dividend’  Dollar-denominated bond sales by Sri Lanka are attracting
more investors as credit-rating companies raise their outlooks.
Last month,  Fitch Ratings  upgraded Sri Lanka’s ranking by a
notch to BB-, three levels below investment grade.  Standard &
Poor’s  boosted the outlook for its B+ rating to positive, while
Moody’s Investors Service did the same on its B1 view, citing a
“peace dividend.” Moody’s and S&P rank Sri Lanka four levels
below investment grade.  The  Philippines , rated two levels higher than Sri Lanka by
S&P, doesn’t plan to sell bonds overseas as markets are volatile,
Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima said on Aug. 11. The country
last sold 15-year dollar bonds in March.  “We are thinking favorably about an investment in Sri
Lanka,” said Walter Rossini, who oversees 250 million euros
($360 million) of assets at Aletti Gestielle SGR SpA in Milan.
“Political instability is becoming a thing of the past and
future risks are less. Growth prospects have never been
better.”  The July sale of 10-year government notes yielded 3.32
percentage points above similar-dated U.S. Treasuries. That
compares with a spread of 3.73 percentage points at a previous
sale in September, 2010, and almost 4 percentage points in
October, 2007, at the height of the civil war.  Volatility Victims  Sri Lanka may still be vulnerable to a global recession
should investors flee emerging markets for safe havens,
according to Koen Vanderauwera, a  fund manager  at KBC Asset
Management SA in Luxembourg. India’s stock-market capitalization
is almost 60 times that of Sri Lanka’s, Bloomberg data show.  “We may not be able to take an exposure in Sri Lanka
yet,” he said. “Such investments are going to be victims of
uncertainties arising from global political uncertainties,
volatile equity and commodity markets.” KBC has about 160
billion euros under management, according to its website.  Sri Lanka’s GDP grew at the slowest pace in eight years in
2009 as a slowdown in  Europe  and the U.S. crimped demand for
exports that account for 16 percent of the economy. Shipments,
mostly garments and tea, rose an annual 34 percent to $832
million in May this year, according to the central bank.  Oil Risk  A jump in  oil prices  may also pose a threat, Dheerasinghe
said, as higher costs fan inflation in a country that depends on
imports of the commodity to meet all of its energy needs.  Higher import bills may drain the nation’s foreign-exchange
reserves after the IMF boosted the assets to a record $7.5
billion. Crude futures on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  have
dropped 25 percent after touching a 31-month high of $114.83 a
barrel on May 2.  The Sri Lankan rupee has strengthened almost 1 percent
against the dollar this year. Rising imports, especially
“investment goods that will help achieve higher growth,” will
keep the rupee stable in the face of increased fund flows,
Dheerasinghe said.  Lower inflation helped the central bank reduce its reverse-
repurchase rate by 1.25 percentage points to 8.5 percent between
July 2010 and January. Policy makers today left it unchanged for
a seventh straight month to bolster growth. The  Reserve Bank  of
India has increased its benchmark rate 11 times by a total 3.25
percentage points since March 2010 as gains in wholesale prices
stayed above guidance.  Consumer prices in Sri Lanka climbed 7.5 percent in July
from a year earlier compared with as much as 28 percent in 2008
while the war was raging. The monetary authority forecasts that
rising food supplies and currency gains will continue to help
cool inflation.  Reclaimed Land  Sri Lanka received a record $236 million in realized
foreign investment in the first quarter of 2011, with tourism
attracting the most inflows, the  Board of Investment  said June 7.
The nation is aiming to increase visitors almost fourfold to 2.5
million by 2016 after a record 46 percent jump last year.  The government has reclaimed land held by the Tamil rebels,
accounting for 24 percent of the island, making more resources
available for development, Dheerasinghe said.  As part of the post-war infrastructure drive, the country
is targeting investment of $3.4 billion to expand its ports,
looking to create a shipping hub capable of competing with
Singapore and Dubai. The country’s first coal-fired power plant
was finished earlier this year and next month sees the opening
of a four-lane toll expressway that will slash the time it takes
to travel from  Colombo  to the south.  “The bond issue’s success showed the demand and positive
outlook,” said Dheerasinghe. “Even if the global economy
reaches the crisis levels of 2009, it won’t hurt us as badly as
we are now a strong country. Investors won’t rush to pull out of
Sri Lanka.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anusha Ondaatjie in Colombo at 
 anushao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  