-- 
Stocks in India Fall to 14-Month Low on Policy Rates, U.S. Growth Concern

-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y   a n d   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 
2011-08-18T12:05:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/stocks-in-india-decline-on-u-s-stimulus-interest-rate-increase-concerns.html
Indian stocks dropped to the lowest
in more than 14 months, led by banks and software services
companies, after two U.S. Federal Reserve officials said they
opposed a pledge to keep  interest rates  low, and on speculation
the central bank will boost rates further to cool inflation.  Infosys Ltd., the nation’s second-largest software services
provider, led a decline among peers after the sector was
downgraded to “deteriorating” by BNP Paribas SA.  ICICI Bank
Ltd. (ICICIBC) , the country’s second-biggest lender, plunged the most in
six months. The nation’s food inflation slowed, an easing that
may be insufficient to prevent the central bank raising interest
rates further.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index, or Sensex, lost
371.01 points, or 2.2 percent, to 16,469.79 in Mumbai, the
lowest close since May 26, 2010. The gauge has dropped 22
percent from a Nov. 5 peak, exceeding the 20 percent level
marking a so-called  bear market  for some investors. The S&P CNX
Nifty Index dropped 2.2 percent to 4,944.15 and its August
futures traded at 4,937.5. The BSE 200 Index decreased 2.3
percent to 2,038.45.  “There’s some sense of panic that has been emerging over
the last few days driven by the global environment and some of
the domestic events, both political and economic,” said Navneet Munot, who oversees $10.5 billion as chief investment officer at
SBI Funds Management Pvt., a unit of India’s biggest lender.
“Locally, there has been concern of about inflation not coming
off despite global commodities prices cooling off.”  Banks Slump  Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  and Dallas Fed
chief  Richard Fisher  disagreed with last week’s decision to hold
the U.S. benchmark interest rate at a record low until at least
mid-2013, the most opposition to a Fed move in almost 19 years.
Both said the policy won’t help spur growth. The Reserve Bank of
 India  may raise rates for a 12th time since March 2010 at its
next meeting, sacrificing growth to rein in inflation that has
stayed at more than 9 percent for eight straight months.  Bankex, a Bombay Stock Exchange index measuring 14 lenders,
fell 3.5 percent to 10,971.66, the lowest level since July 2010.
The gauge has declined 5.7 percent in the past three trading
sessions. India’s benchmark wholesale-price inflation in July
rose 9.22 percent from a year earlier, the government said Aug.
16, faster than economists’ estimates for a 9.2 percent gain.  The Sensex has dropped 2.2 percent in the past three days.
The MSCI Emerging Market Banks Index, a measure of 97
developing-markets lenders, rallied 4.6 percent in the five days
through Aug. 17.  Growth Forecast  ICICI Bank slumped 5.1 percent to 863.8 rupees, its fifth
day of losses.  State Bank of India (SBIN) , the biggest lender, lost 4.2
percent to 2,078.4 rupees, the lowest close since April 2010.
 Axis Bank Ltd. (AXSB) , the fourth-largest lender by market value,
tumbled 5.2 percent to 1,109.25 rupees, the lowest since March
2010.  Indian stocks also fell after Morgan Stanley cut its year-
end target for the Sensex by 15 percent to 18,850. The brokerage
also reduced its forecast for India’s 2012 gross domestic
product growth to 7.4 percent from 7.8 percent and its estimate
for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2013, to 7.6 percent from 8
percent.  “We believe a combination of factors -- including
persistently high inflation, higher cost of capital, cut in the
ratio of fiscal spending to GDP, a weak global capital markets
environment and slow pace of investment -- will cause a further
slowdown in growth,” analysts  Chetan Ahya  and Upasana Chachra
wrote in the report today.  ‘Anemic Growth’  Infosys declined 3.9 percent to 2,354.1 rupees, while
larger rival  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS)  fell 3.8 percent to
962.35 rupees.  Wipro Ltd. (WPRO) , the third-biggest software services
provider, slid 4.7 percent to 328.15 rupees. India’s top
software exporters get 80 percent of their sales from overseas.  The three companies were cut to “reduce” from “buy” by
Abhiram Eleswarapu, an analyst at BNP Paribas. The stocks “are
yet to reflect a likely prolonged anemic macro growth scenario
and the 50 percent chance of a U.S. recession that our economics
team forecasts,” the analyst wrote in a note to clients today.
“We are yet to see material consensus downgrades since the
macro data started worsening.”  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , the biggest truckmaker and owner of
Jaguar Land Rover, slid 3.4 percent to 752.05 rupees, the lowest
close since July 2010. The maker of world’s cheapest car, the
Nano, declined 2.8 percent yesterday after saying global sales
last month declined 6 percent. The shares have lost 42 percent
this year, the worst-performing auto stock on the Sensex.  Food Inflation  Reserve Bank  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao has to weigh the
risks to expansion posed by  Europe ’s debt crisis and a faltering
U.S. recovery against tightening monetary policy to slow the
fastest price gains among the BRICS nations of  Brazil ,  Russia ,
India,  China  and  South Africa .  An index measuring wholesale prices of farm products
including rice and wheat rose 9.03 percent from a year earlier
in the week ended Aug. 6, the commerce ministry said today. It
increased 9.9 percent the previous week.  Indian households expect inflation to accelerate in the 12
months through June “mainly because of the movements in food
price,” the central bank said last week.  India’s Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said Aug. 15 that
taming inflation would be his government’s “top-most” priority
and vowed to eradicate corruption that threatens to undermine
the nation’s development.  Lagging Earnings  The  Reserve Bank of India  has raised its repurchase rate 11
times since the start of 2010 and last increased it by 50 basis
points on July 26 to 8 percent to damp rising living costs.  Earnings for 46 percent of Sensex companies in the three
months ended June lagged behind analyst estimates, according to
Bloomberg data. That compares with 33 percent that missed
forecasts in the previous quarter.  The Sensex has lost 20 percent this year, the worst
performer after Brazil’s Bovespa Index, on concern higher
borrowing costs will slow economic growth and erode company
profits. Companies on the Sensex are valued at 13.8 times
estimated earnings, compared with a multiple of 10 for the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index.  Foreign investors sold $1.3 billion of Indian equities this
month as higher borrowing costs weighed on companies’ net income
and the government curbed its decision-making amid corruption
scandals.  Stalled Agenda  Indian anti-corruption campaigner Anna Hazare is on an
indefinite fast to demand tougher laws to prosecute corrupt
officials. The latest standoff between Hazare and the government
-- fueled by social media websites, 24-hour TV coverage and
widespread public anger over official malpractice -- deepens the
damage to Singh’s administration, which has been embroiled in
graft charges since October.  His legislative agenda has stalled amid the allegations,
the biggest of which involves the 2008 sale of permits to run
mobile-phone services that the country’s auditor says may have
cost the exchequer $31 billion.  “The market is worried that the government would be too
busy in managing the crisis at hand rather than getting into
policy initiatives,” said Gajendra Nagpal, chief executive
officer at New Delhi-based Unicon Financial Intermediaries Pvt.  Overseas funds sold a net 2.1 billion rupees of Indian
equities on Aug. 16, paring their investment in stocks this year
to 42.6 billion rupees, according to data on the website of the
 Securities and Exchange Board of India .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net ;
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  