-- 
Subdued Perry Courts Support in New Hampshire After Barb Aimed at Bernanke

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-08-18T20:29:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/subdued-perry-courts-support-in-new-hampshire-after-barb-aimed-at-bernanke.html
(Corrects first name of Romney in third paragraph.)  Gone were the insinuations of
treason, stream of wisecracks and Lone Star State cufflinks.  A calmer, quieter  Rick Perry  toured  New Hampshire 
yesterday, promoting a focused message of job creation and
economic growth before audiences packed with local business
leaders.  The Texas governor, who began his bid for the Republican
presidential nomination on Aug. 13, has shaken up the campaign
with his swagger and an eagerness to take on frontrunner  Mitt Romney .  Yet after days of dominating the headlines, Perry’s major
goal in New Hampshire seemed not to make any. He hewed closely
to his economic message in an address before a business
association in Bedford, reading his remarks from a prepared
text. Later on, he dismissed reporter questions about his
campaign with a quick “it’s all good” and a salute.  His more subdued politicking followed the furor surrounding
his Aug. 15 comment in Iowa that the monetary policies of the
 Federal Reserve  could be seen as “almost treacherous -- or
treasonous,” and would justify “ugly” treatment for the
central bank’s chairman,  Ben S. Bernanke , if he came to Texas.  His remarks were widely criticized -- including by fellow
Republicans such as political strategist  Karl Rove  -- and
spurred questions about Perry’s readiness for the national
stage.  ‘Got Lectured’  When asked yesterday about his remarks, Perry seemed
somewhat chagrined. “I got in trouble talking about the Federal
Reserve yesterday,” he said in Bedford. “I got lectured.”  He used the uproar, though, to steer back to economic
policy. “The president said I needed to watch what I say,”
Perry said. “I just want to respond back, if I may: Mr.
President, actions speak louder than words. And my actions as
governor are helping  create jobs  in this country. The
president’s actions are killing jobs in this country.”  Nor could he resist flirting with another dispute when
fielding a question about  climate change .  “There are a substantial number of scientists who have
manipulated data so that they will have dollars rolling into
their projects,” he said, expressing skepticism that human
activities contribute to climate change. “I think we’re seeing
almost weekly, or even daily, scientists that are coming forward
and questioning the original idea that man-made global warming
is what is causing the climate to change.”  Iowa Appeal  Perry, who earlier this month led a public prayer rally in
Houston, is a favorite among socially conservative voters who
dominate the Iowa caucuses that start the nomination process. He
may prove a harder sell in New Hampshire, which hosts the
nation’s first primary and where Romney has a wide lead in
polling on the Republican presidential race.  “There are things that have made Perry credible and
successful in  Texas  but won’t work as well in the state of New
Hampshire,” said Richard Ashooh, a Bedford Republican who
unsuccessfully ran for Congress last year.  “New Hampshire voters have swagger,” Ashooh said. “It’s
just a different swagger.”  New Hampshire Republicans and those independents who lean
toward the party tend to be more moderate on abortion rights and
gay marriage, said  Andrew Smith , director of the polling
institute at the  University of New Hampshire.  Perry’s focus yesterday “on jobs and business and debt are
the kind of things that will resonate with the New Hampshire
audience,” Smith said. “He’s going to downplay the social
issues.”  Romney Strategy  Romney, who also leads the Republican field in national
polls and fundraising, has concentrated his campaign in New
Hampshire, where he owns a vacation home and is well-known from
his time as governor of a neighboring state.  Ray Sullivan, Perry’s spokesman, said the Texan’s campaign
is hiring staff in the state. “To date in New Hampshire and the
other early states, we have relied on a lot of great
volunteers,” he said in an e-mail.  Romney touts his private-sector background as CEO of the
private equity firm  Bain Capital  LLC as giving him greater
understanding of the economy than most of his rivals.  Though Perry has held fulltime political offices since
being elected Texas agricultural commissioner in 1990, he isn’t
ceding the business background argument to Romney.  “I was in the private sector for 13 years after I left the
 Air Force ,” he told reporters in  Des Moines  on Aug. 15,
referring to his time as a rancher.  “I wasn’t on  Wall Street ,” he said. “I wasn’t working at
Bain Capital, but the principles of the free market -- they work
whether you’re in a farm field in  Iowa  or whether you’re on Wall
Street.”  Climate Change  Perry’s comments on climate change yesterday drew a
distinction with Romney, who has attributed the globe’s warming
trend in part to human actions.  A May report by the  National Research Council of the
National Academies  said that a “preponderance” of scientific
evidence shows that the release of carbon dioxide and other
heat-trapping gases is the “most likely” cause of the planet’s
warming trend during the past 50 years.  In remarks to business leaders yesterday in Nashua, New
Hampshire, Perry endorsed an idea -- also backed by Romney --to
allow American companies to have a break on overseas profits now
subject to a 35 percent tax rate. The break, he suggested, could
last as long as five years.  “Why not look at how you might repatriate those dollars
and have those focused on  job creation ?” Perry said.  That message reassured George Katis, owner of Nashua
Wallpaper & Paint Co, who questioned Perry after the candidate
toured Nashua-based Resonetics LLC, a micro-manufacturing
company.  “Governor, I want to tell you that you came across very
moderate,” said Katis, pointing at a row of television cameras.
“Since you announced, many of your friends in the media here
have been painting you as to the right of Attila the Hun.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  