-- 
Success and the Single Chief Executive: Roussanov and Savor

-- B y   N i k o l a i   R o u s s a n o v   a n d   P a v e l   S a v o r
-- 
2011-08-18T00:00:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/success-and-the-single-chief-executive-commentary-by-roussanov-and-savor.html
Larry Ellison  and  Steve Ballmer  both
run large software companies. Their operating styles, however,
are a study in contrasts.  At  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , Ellison has stormed into new markets,
making daring acquisitions and denouncing his competitors. At
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , Ballmer has maintained a lofty cash balance
while generally adopting a less strident view of his peers, at
least in public. Can this schism be explained entirely by
strategic differences between the two companies -- or are CEOs’
personalities and life circumstances relevant, too?  Determinants of corporate investment have been studied for
decades. In economics, most such analyses assumed that company
characteristics and circumstances play a dominant role, with
everything else relegated to the background. There is growing
evidence, though, that the personal characteristics of chief
executive officers can be quite important. In a recent  paper , we
hypothesized that CEOs’ concern for social position may result
in different attitudes toward risk, and thus affect their
companies’ investment policies.  Since their earliest days, humans have been concerned about
relative position. Your rank in relation to your peers has been
important for, among other things, the choice of a mate. If
relative success determines ability to find a desirable mate, it
may explain some of the drive to outdo the competition even if
you have more money than you know how to spend. Such competition
creates a kind of tournament, raising your tolerance for taking
large financial risks.  Daredevil Drivers  Indeed, evidence in psychology indicates that mating
concerns are important for risk-taking, at least among males.
Auto insurers have long realized that single people behave more
aggressively, charging them higher premiums to compensate for
greater risk.  We were curious whether this behavior could be found in an
environment where the stakes are high and consequences far-
reaching. Do status concerns help explain CEO behavior? If
marriage market competition is indeed important, then single
managers, who are presumably active in the market for mates,
should act more aggressively in hopes of making it really big.
Married ones should be more risk-averse.  We collected data on the marital histories of the CEOs of
1,500 publicly traded companies, including Oracle’s Ellison
(currently single; married four times) and Microsoft’s Ballmer
(married since 1990). We found that companies whose CEOs are
single invest substantially more than other companies, in
particular when it comes to investments subject to the greatest
uncertainty, such as acquisitions or research and development.
These companies’ stock returns are also substantially more
volatile, indicating that they are indeed exposed to greater
risk.  We tested our findings to make sure that we weren’t just
finding greater appetites for risk among younger managers, who
are less likely to be married, or at smaller companies, which
are more volatile. We found this relationship between marital
status and companies’ risk-taking persists even after adjusting
for age and company size.  Beating the Market  Extending our analysis to mutual-fund managers, we find
evidence that single managers take more idiosyncratic risk --
that is, attempt to beat the market more aggressively -- than
married ones.  Of course, it is possible that getting married and starting
a family has a direct effect on lowering one’s risk appetite.
Perhaps people become more conservative simply because they are
concerned about not having enough money to provide for their
spouse and children. But most CEOs have enough wealth to ensure
a comfortable life for their families even if their company goes
bankrupt.  Does this mean corporate boards should require a new CEO to
be married to avoid excessive risk-taking? Not necessarily.
After all, risk is in the nature of business, and without risk-
taking, innovation and economic growth are impossible. The key
is to have the right person for the right job. A young company
looking for a big break might be well served by an ambitious
young CEO looking to take the place of Ellison as the most
eligible bachelor on the Forbes 400 list.  Marital status obviously can’t explain everything. Look at
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., which collapsed in spectacular
fashion in 2008, even though its CEO,  Dick Fuld , famously
promoted a  corporate culture  that prized successful marriages.
Even so, the disparity between single and married leaders
deserves recognition as a hidden factor that can influence
corporate behavior and risk.  (Nikolai Roussanov and Pavel Savor are assistant professors
of finance at the  University of Pennsylvania ’s Wharton School.)  To contact the writers of this article:
Nikolai Roussanov at  nroussan@wharton.upenn.edu  and Pavel Savor
at  psavor@wharton.upenn.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
George Anders at   ganders1@bloomberg.net . 