-- 
Sunborne Gets 1.4 Billion-Rupee Loan for India Solar Project

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-08-18T11:47:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/sunborne-gets-1-4-billion-rupee-loan-for-india-solar-project.html
Sunborne Energy LLC, a solar power
developer backed by billionaire Vinod Khosla, got a 1.4 billion-
rupee ($30.6 million) loan to build a plant following India’s
first auction of solar development permits.  State Bank of Patiala,  Canara Bank (CBK)  Ltd., Export-Import Bank
of India and  State Bank of Travancore (SBTR)  agreed to the 12-year loan
for a 15-megawatt plant in Gujarat state, Sunborne Chief
Financial Officer Anil Nayar said today in a telephone
interview. Sunborne has a nine-month grace period on payments.  India plans to build solar capacity equivalent to one
nuclear plant by January, requiring about $3.2 billion in
investment. Funding has been a hurdle for project developers,
including billionaire Anil Ambani’s  Reliance Power Ltd. (RPWR)  and
 Lanco Infratech Ltd. (LANCI) , because some banks won’t lend to an
industry that’s new to India.  “It took a long time, but they came through,” Nayar said,
declining to disclose the interest rate on the loan, saying it
was in line with local market rates for  project financing . Such
deals may make banks more comfortable lending to solar projects
in India and allow the industry to expand, he said.  Banks have said power generation may fall short of targets
because there’s little historical data on solar-radiation
patterns in the country and equipment may not perform as
expected under India’s climatic conditions.  Conservative Estimates  As part of the Sunborne financing agreement, the lenders
demanded a guarantee fund that could be tapped should power
output fall “significantly” in the first two years, Nayar
said. “We’ve been conservative in our own estimates so it
shouldn’t be a factor.”  Sunborne, whose investors include U.S. venture capital firm
General Catalyst Partners, International Finance Corp. and
 Khosla Ventures , expects to complete the plant as early as
November. China’s Suntech Power Holdings Co., the world’s
largest producer of silicon solar panels, has begun delivery of
the equipment and construction has started, Nayar said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 