-- 
Swiss 2-Year Yields Turn Negative, 10-Year Yield Down the Most Since 1994

-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 
2011-08-18T15:07:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/swiss-2-year-yields-turn-negative-10-year-yield-down-the-most-since-1994.html
Swiss two-year note yields stayed
negative for a second day after central bankers announced more
measures to weaken the franc, showing investors may sacrifice
capital for the perceived safety of investment in the currency.  The Swiss two-year note yield fell five basis points to
negative 0.06 percent at 4 p.m. in  London  as stock markets slid
around the world. The yield yesterday slid 10 basis points into
negative territory, indicating investors will receive less when
the bonds mature than the sum they paid for them. Ten-year Swiss
yields tumbled 19 basis points today, the most since Bloomberg
began collecting the data, to 0.86 percent.  The  Swiss National Bank  said yesterday that it would boost
liquidity to money markets and increase cash available to banks
to restrain franc appreciation. The SNB on Aug. 3 lowered its
target for the three-month Swiss franc London interbank offered
rate, or Libor, to “as close to zero as possible.”  “The dilemma is that most measures the authorities can
decide to weaken the franc add to the downside to rates,”
allowing “Swiss negative rate anxiety” to spread, Christoph Rieger, head of fixed-income strategy at Commerzbank AG in
 Frankfurt , wrote in an e-mailed report today.  The two-year yield had previously dipped below zero on Aug.
11 before recovering.  The Libor rate banks charge to lend to each other in francs
for three months dropped to a record low 0.01333 percent today
from 0.02750 yesterday, the British Bankers’ Association said.
Futures on three-month franc Libor rose, pushing implied yields
on the December contract as low as negative 0.71 percent.  Negative Libor  Credit Suisse AG, the Zurich-based bank, submitted a
negative three-month Libor for the first time, at negative 0.10
percent compared with 0.04 percent yesterday, BBA data show.  “The demand for francs via currency forwards, bonds and
others is pushing yields ever deeper into negative territory,”
said  Sebastien Galy , a senior foreign-exchange strategist at
Societe Generale SA in London.  Swiss assets aren’t the only ones to have experienced
negative  interest rates . U.S. Treasury bill yields dropped below
zero earlier this month as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis
threatened to engulf the region’s larger economies.  One-month Treasury bill yields, which fell to negative 0.03
percent on Aug. 5, were at zero percent today.  ‘Not Unprecedented’  “Negative nominal rates are not unprecedented and could be
related to expectations of penalties on foreign inflows, like
those imposed in the 1970s” by  Switzerland , Francesco Garzarelli, co-head of fixed-income strategy at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. in London, wrote today. “However, these were not
successful in stemming the franc’s appreciation at the time.”  The rush to francs during 1970s inflation resulted in
effective rates of about negative 20 percent, Galy said.  The franc has strengthened 12 percent this year, making it
the best performer among 10 developed-market currencies,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.  The Swiss currency swung between gains and losses today,
and was recently 1.1 percent stronger at 1.12692 per euro and
0.2 percent higher at 78.82 centimes per dollar. The currency
reached records of 70.71 centimes per dollar and 1.00749 to the
euro respectively on Aug. 9.  Swiss Finance Minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf yesterday
said the government would support any measure to restrain the
currency deemed appropriate by the SNB, including a currency peg
or market interventions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Keith Campbell  at 
 k.campbell@bloomberg.net  