-- 
Syria Kills 25 as UN Officials Consider Legality of Crackdown

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-08-18T15:01:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/syria-kills-25-as-un-officials-consider-legality-of-crackdown.html
Syrian security forces killed at
least 25 protesters yesterday, activists said, as U.S. President
 Barack Obama  led international calls for Bashar al-Assad to step
down as Syria’s leader.  At least 15 people were killed in the central governorate
of Homs, eight in the port city of Latakia and the eastern town
of Deir al-Zour, and one in each of the provinces of Hama and
Idlib, Mahmoud Merhi, head of the Arab Organization for Human
Rights and Ammar Qurabi of the National Organization for Human
Rights in Syria said today. Protesters held evening rallies in
Aleppo, Hama and suburbs of the capital, Damascus, they said.  In  Washington , Obama said that “for the sake of the Syrian
people, the time has come for President Assad to step aside.”
Citing “ferocious brutality” and “the Assad government’s
flagrant disrespect for the dignity of the Syrian people,”
Obama announced sanctions freezing Syrian assets in the U.S.,
banning the import of Syrian petroleum products and prohibiting
U.S. investment in  Syria .  U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron, German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Nicolas Sarkozy issued a joint
statement calling on Assad “to face the reality of the complete
rejection of his regime by the Syrian people and to step aside
in the best interests of Syria and the unity of its people.”
The leaders urged the Syrian government “to stop all violence
immediately, to release all prisoners of conscience and to allow
free access to the  United Nations .”  Human Rights Report  A report today to the Geneva-based UN Human Rights Council
said Syria’s government has engaged in a “pattern of human
rights violations that constitutes widespread or systematic
attacks against the civilian population, which may amount to
crimes against humanity.”  The  Human Rights Council  should urge the  Security Council 
to “consider” referring the five-month crackdown in Syria to
the  International Criminal Court , the report of a fact-finding
mission said. The authors said they weren’t allowed to enter
Syria and that the government didn’t cooperate with the mission.  The Council-mandated report cited evidence of
“disproportionate use of force” against peaceful anti-
government protesters, “numerous summary executions,” torture
and widespread unlawful arrests.  UN Action  The UN report, amid growing international outrage, may add
momentum to a European-led push to overcome Russian resistance
to firmer UN action against Assad. Faced with the most serious
threat to his family’s 40-year rule, he has deployed tanks,
armored vehicles, artillery and helicopters to crush the
uprising that began after revolts ousted the leaders of Tunisia
and Egypt, and sparked a conflict in Libya.  The International Criminal Court, which tries those charged
with  war crimes , genocide and crimes against humanity, issued an
arrest warrant for Libya’s Muammar Qaddafi in June.  Assad told UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon in a phone
conversation yesterday that military operations against
protesters had “stopped,” said Farhan Haq, a UN spokesman.  Syrian forces have killed more than 2,400 people since the
unrest began in March, according to Merhi and Qurabi. More than
500 members of the security forces have died during that time,
the government has said. The U.S. State Department said more
than 30,000 people have been detained, some in cages.  Army Loyalty  “So long as the Syrian army and security forces remain
loyal, it will be difficult to topple Assad,” said Patrick Seale, a biographer of Bashar’s late father, former President
Hafez al-Assad. “His main asset is that no foreign country has
any appetite for a military intervention and the Russians and
the Chinese will certainly veto any attempt to condemn him at
the UN  Security Council .”  Criticism by nations in the region has left Assad
increasingly isolated, leaving Iran as his only unwavering ally
among them. Obama, Saudi Arabia’s King Abdullah and British
Prime Minister  David Cameron  have called on Syria to stop
attacking its people. U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  on
Aug. 12 urged nations doing business with Syria to cut off trade
and arms sales.  Canada  is extending sanctions against Assad’s
government.  The foreign minister of neighboring Turkey,  Ahmet Davutoglu , said on Aug. 15 that the “time for words will be
over” unless Syria ends military operations against its people.  The Syrian government, which has blocked access to aid
workers and journalists, may allow a UN team to enter Syria to
assess the humanitarian situation, said the UN’s emergency
relief coordinator, Valerie Amos.  “We hope that we are very nearly at the point where a
mission will be able to go,” she said yesterday in  New York .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut , Lebanon, at   mderhally@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Krause-Jackson in New York at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 