-- 
U.K. Retail Sales Rise Less Than Forecast

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-08-18T10:38:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/u-k-retail-sales-rose-less-than-forecast-in-july-as-clothing-demand-eased.html
U.K. retail sales rose less than
economists forecast in July as demand at clothes and household-
goods stores dropped.  Sales including fuel rose 0.2 percent from June, when they
increased a revised 0.8 percent, the  Office for National
Statistics  said today in  London . The median forecast of 19
economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 0.3 percent
increase in July. On the year, sales were unchanged.  Bank of England policy makers discussed the possibility of
additional stimulus for the economy this month as  Europe ’s debt
crisis threatens the recovery and consumer activity remained
“subdued.” Asda, the U.K. unit of  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , said
on Aug. 16 that sales growth slowed in the second quarter as
fewer shoppers visited its stores because of higher fuel prices.  “The outlook for the consumer sector remains poor,” said
Samuel Tombs, an economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in London.
“Recent sharp falls in  consumer confidence , increases in
unemployment and the intensifying squeeze on consumers’ real
incomes all point to high street sales volumes slipping back
later this year.”  The pound extended its decline against the dollar after the
report. It traded at $1.6501 as of 10:56 a.m. in London, down
0.3 percent from yesterday.  Clothes Sales  Food led the increase in sales in July, rising 0.7 percent
on the month. Clothing, shoes and textile sales slipped 0.3
percent, as did household goods. Clothes sales had jumped 1
percent in June as stores brought forward seasonal discounting.  Sales at the “other stores” category, which includes
pharmaceuticals, medical and cosmetic products, rose 0.2 percent
in July from June.  Excluding fuel, retail sales increased 0.2 percent on the
month and were down 0.2 percent from a year earlier. Non-store
retailing, which includes internet and mail-order shopping, fell
0.9 percent.  U.K. inflation accelerated to 4.4 percent in July, more
than double the  Bank of England ’s target. With wage growth at
2.6 percent, price gains are squeezing consumers and limiting
spending in Britain’s stores and malls.  The retail sales deflator, a measure of changes in shop
prices, was an annual 4.4 percent in July, the highest since
July 2008, the statistics office said today. Excluding auto
fuel, the deflator was 3.1 percent. The food-price deflator was
5.7 percent, while the deflator for clothes was 3.5 percent, the
highest since 1991.  Data yesterday showed jobless claims rose the most in more
than two years in July. The increase of 37,100 in jobless-
benefit claims was the biggest since May 2009.  J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY)  Chief Executive Officer  John Rogers  said in
an interview this month that customers are buying fewer items
and shopping more frequently as rising inflation saps their
spending power.  Kesa Electricals Plc (KESA) , Europe’s third-largest
electronics retailer, may sell its U.K. Comet chain after a loss
at the business held back full-year earnings growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  