-- 
U.K. Stocks Slump the Most Since March 2009; HSBC, Barclays Sink

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-08-18T16:08:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/u-k-s-ftse-100-index-falls-for-second-day-hsbc-rio-tinto-bhp-decline.html
U.K. stocks fell the most since
March 2009 amid renewed concern that global growth is slowing.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  tumbled 6 percent and  Barclays Plc (BARC) 
plunged 11 percent as the Wall Street Journal reported that U.S.
regulators will increase their scrutiny of Europe’s largest
lenders on concern that a debt crisis in the region may lead to
a funding squeeze. Rio Tinto Group sank 6.5 percent as metals
prices declined on concern that global demand is waning.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  slid 4.5 percent to 5,092.23 at the 4:30
p.m. close in  London . The gauge has lost 14 percent from the end
of June, wiping more than $300 billion from the value of U.K.
shares amid concern that Europe’s credit crisis and slowing U.S.
economic growth may derail the global recovery. The FTSE All-
Share Index also declined 4.5 percent today, while Ireland’s
ISEQ Index retreated 4.4 percent.  “Recession risk is the key call,” said  Bill O’Neill , the
London-based chief investment officer for Europe, the  Middle
East  and Africa at Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch Wealth
Management, which manages $1.5 trillion. “To some degree, there
has been disappointment in terms of corporate activity,
certainly in terms of jobs growth. We will see a weakening of
growth close to stagnation in Europe in the second half of this
year, but I don’t see a lurch into recession.”  U.K. Stock Valuations  The slump has pushed down the price-to-earnings ratio on
the FTSE 100 to 9.1 times the estimated earnings of its
constituent companies, below the average multiple of 11.5 over
the last five years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic
index fell more than forecast to minus 30.7 in August, the
lowest since March 2009, from 3.2 in July, a report showed
today. Readings greater than zero signal expansion in the area
covering eastern Pennsylvania, southern  New Jersey  and Delaware.  Morgan Stanley cut its forecast for global growth this
year, citing an “insufficient” policy response to  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis, weaker confidence and the prospect of
fiscal tightening. The bank predicted growth of 3.9 percent,
down from a previous forecast of 4.2 percent, according to an e-
mailed report dated today.  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s pledge last week
to keep  interest rates  near zero until mid-2013 was
“inappropriate policy at an inappropriate time,”  Charles Plosser , president of the Fed Bank of Philadelphia, said
yesterday in a Bloomberg Radio interview.  Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher said the central bank
shouldn’t make policy to protect stock investors. Both officials
dissented from the Fed’s Aug. 9 statement.  U.K. Retail Sales  In the U.K., retail sales rose less in July than economists
had forecast as demand at clothes and household-goods stores
dropped. Sales including fuel climbed 0.2 percent from June,
when they increased a revised 0.8 percent, the Office for
National Statistics said today in London. The median forecast of
19 economists in a Bloomberg News survey called for a 0.3
percent increase in July. On the year, sales were unchanged.  HSBC sank 6 percent to 509.6 pence and Barclays plunged 11
percent to 154 pence, leading declines today on the FTSE 100, as
the Wall Street Journal reported that U.S. regulators will
increase their scrutiny of Europe’s largest lenders on concern
that Europe’s debt crisis may lead to a funding squeeze.  Rio Tinto declined 6.5 percent to 3,494.5 pence as metal
prices slumped amid concern that global economic growth is
slowing.  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  and  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , partners in the
world’s biggest open-pit coal mine for exports, fell 10 percent
to 972 pence and 6.5 percent to 1,890 pence, respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  