-- 
U.S. Credit Risk Gauge Rises to Week’s High as Economic Data Deteriorates

-- B y   W i l l   R o b i n s o n
-- 
2011-08-18T21:23:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/u-s-credit-risk-gauge-soars-to-13-month-high-after-jobless-claims-report.html
The cost to protect U.S. corporate
debt from losses rose to the highest level this week amid
concern the economy is slowing. The perceived risk of  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  grew.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on company debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, increased 6.8 basis points to a
mid-price of 116.4 basis points as of 5:04 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Markit Group Ltd. That’s the highest since Aug. 11,
2010.  The gauge, which typically rises when investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves, is climbing after more
Americans than forecast filed applications for  unemployment
benefits  last week, signaling the labor market is struggling.
The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic
index plunged this month to the lowest since March 2009, raising
the specter of a new recession two years into the recovery.  “That was not necessarily a red signal but definitely a
bright yellow,” sign for the economy, said  Mikhail Foux , a
credit strategist at Citigroup Inc. in New York. “To me the
market is just looking for direction, investors are extremely
spooked,” he said.  The Philadelphia Fed index fell to minus 30.7; readings
less than zero indicate contraction. Jobless claims rose by
9,000 to 408,000 in the week ended Aug. 13, Labor Department
figures showed today in  Washington . Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg survey projected a rise in jobless claims to 400,000.  Quantitative Easing  Investors are reacting to negative economic data as they
look ahead to an announcement from Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
at a conference in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming, on Aug. 26 that could
signal another asset-buying program, Foux said. The Fed
completed its second round of so-called quantitative easing,
known as “QE2,” at the end of June.  “The market is effectively demanding QE3, but I don’t
think the Fed has any political will to do that,” Foux said.  Credit-default swaps on  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
Bank of America jumped 36.1 basis points to 327.7 basis points,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. Swaps on New York-based Goldman Sachs rose
20.3 basis points to 205.3 points.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meets its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt.
A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting
$10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Will Robinson in New York at 
 wrobinson11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  