-- 
U.S. August Philadelphia Business Outlook Report (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-08-18T14:10:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/u-s-august-philadelphia-business-outlook-report-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Philadelphia area manufacturing activity from the  Federal
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia .  Responses to the Business Outlook Survey this month suggest that
regional manufacturing activity has dipped significantly. The
survey’s broad indicators for activity, shipments, and new
orders all declined sharply from last month. Firms indicated
that employment and average work hours are lower this month.
Price indexes continued to show a trend of moderating price
pressures.  The broadest indicator of future activity also
weakened markedly, but firms still expect overall growth in
shipments, new orders, and employment over the next six months.
The collection period for this month’s survey ran from August 8-
16, overlapping a week of unusually high volatility in both
domestic and international financial markets.  All Indicators Show Declines  The survey’s broadest measure of manufacturing conditions, the
diffusion index of current activity, decreased from a slightly
positive reading of 3.2 in July to -30.7 in August. The index is
now at its lowest level since March 2009.  The demand for
manufactured goods, as measured by the current new orders index,
paralleled the decline in the general activity index, falling 27
points. The current shipments index fell 18 points and recorded
its first negative reading since September of last year.
Suggesting weakening activity, indexes for inventories, unfilled
orders, and delivery times were all in negative territory this
month.  Firms’ responses suggest a deterioration in the labor market
compared with July. The current employment index fell 14 points,
recording its first negative reading in 12 months. About 18
percent of the firms reported an increase in employment, but 23
percent reported a decrease.  The percentage of firms reporting
a shorter workweek (28 percent) was greater than the percentage
reporting a longer one (14 percent). The workweek index fell 9
points.  Price Indexes Show Further Moderation  Diffusion indexes for prices paid and prices received were lower
this month and suggest a continued trend of moderating price
pressures.  The prices paid index declined 12 points and has now
declined 36 points over the last three months. More firms
reported declines in prices received for their products this
month (19 percent) than reported increases (10 percent).  The
prices received index decreased 10 points, resulting in the
first negative reading since last November.  Six-Month Indicators Dip But Remain Positive  The survey’s indicators for future activity fell 22 points this
month, more than reversing the increase of 21 points in July.
The indexes for future new orders and shipments also fell 12 and
10 points, respectively.  The index for future employment
decreased more modestly, by 2 points, and remains well below
average readings in the first quarter of this year.  More firms
expect to increase employment over the next six months (32
percent) than expect to decrease it (24 percent).  In special questions this month, firms were asked about the
importance of seasonal factors on production (see Special
Questions). Almost 40 percent of firms indicated that seasonal
factors have a significant influence on monthly production
levels.  Nearly 29 percent of the firms had scheduled shutdowns
or slowdowns during the summer months this year. But, on balance,
production levels were not particularly unusual this year: The
number of firms indicating that production decreases were
greater than usual during July and August was only slightly
higher than the number indicating that production decreases were
less than usual.  Summary  According to respondents to the August Business Outlook Survey,
the region’s manufacturing sector is much weaker this month.
The survey’s indicators suggest a decline in demand for
manufactured goods, and shipments and employment were also in
decline.  Price measures suggest continued moderation in price
pressures, and more firms reported price declines for their
manufactured goods this month. The broadest indicators for
growth over the next six months, including employment, fell back
notably this month but remain slightly favorable to expansion.  Released:  August 18, 2011, 10 a.m. ET.
The September Business Outlook Survey will be released on
September 15, 2011, at 10 a.m. ET  Special Questions (August 2011)  1) How important are seasonal factors in your monthly production
levels?  Significant                                              39.5
Not Significant                                          59.2 NR
1.3  2) Have seasonal factors become more or less important for your
business over time?  More important                                           13.2
Less important                                           15.8 No
difference over time                                  60.5 NR
10.5  3)  Will you schedule plant shutdowns or production slowdowns
during the summer months this year?  Yes                                                      29.0 No
60.5 NR
10.5  If yes, which of the following best characterizes your expected
shutdowns/slowdowns for this month and next?  July     August
Production decreases greater than usual       6.6      6.6
Production decreases about the same as usual 17.1      5.3
Production decreases less than usual          5.3      5.3
Not applicable                               71.0     82.8 