-- 
Oil Sheen Near BP Wells in Gulf of Mexico Probed by U.S.

-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t   a n d   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 
2011-08-18T18:40:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/u-s-investigates-oil-sheen-discovered-in-gulf-of-mexico.html
The U.S. is asking companies to
investigate a “light” oil sheen in an area of the  Gulf of
Mexico  where  BP Plc (BP/)  has two abandoned exploration wells.  The  Bureau of Ocean Energy Management , Regulation and
Enforcement is determining whether the sheen, about 100 miles
(160 kilometers) off the Louisiana coast, may be coming from
wells not currently in use, Melissa Schwartz, an agency
spokeswoman, said today in an e-mail.  BP and other oil producers were asked to investigate the
sheen in the Green Canyon area that was spotted by the U.S.
Coast Guard last week, the London-based company said today.  BP doesn’t believe the cloudy water at Green Canyon was
caused by oil or natural gas, nor that its wells are
contributing to the sheen, the company said in a statement.  BP inspected the two abandoned wellheads and found cloudy
water near one of them, which may be caused by naturally
occurring shallow water flow that’s kicking up silt, the company
said.  BP fell 13 pence, or 3.2 percent, to 400 pence in  London 
trading at 4:35 p.m. in London, its biggest one-day decline in a
week. The U.K.’s benchmark FTSE 100 Index slumped 4.5 percent.  The inspection comes 16 months after a blowout at BP’s
Macondo well in the Gulf killed 11 people and led to the biggest
U.S. offshore oil spill. The company has taken a $41 billion
charge for the disaster.  The U.S. Coast Guard will coordinate with the Bureau of
Ocean Energy, Cheri Ben-Iesau, a spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.
There have been several sheen reports in the Gulf within about
two weeks, she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net ;
Katarzyna Klimasinska in  Washington  at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  