-- 
U.S. Fed’s Low-Interest-Rate Pledge May Retard Recovery, Fisher Tells CNBC

-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n
-- 
2011-08-18T23:45:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/u-s-fed-s-low-interest-rate-pledge-may-retard-recovery-fisher-tells-cnbc.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
President  Richard Fisher  said the central bank’s pledge to keep
the benchmark U.S. interest rate near zero through at least mid-
2013 may lead to “unintended consequences” and hurt growth.  “Now you know that you can wait to borrow because rates
are going to be locked in at very low levels for a two-year
period,” the regional bank chief said today in an interview
with CNBC. “This might well further retard the recovery.”  The Dallas Fed chief joined presidents  Charles Plosser  of
Philadelphia and Narayana Kocherlakota from  Minneapolis  this
month in posing the most opposition in almost 19 years to a
Federal Open Market Committee decision. They dissented from the
FOMC’s Aug. 9 decision to hold  interest rates  near zero at least
until mid-2013, preferring instead to maintain a commitment to
do so for an unspecified “extended period.”  “There could be unintended consequences,” Fisher said.  The central bank should never ease monetary policy to
protect traders and investors after a big drop in U.S. stock
prices, Fisher said during a speech yesterday in Midland,  Texas .
Equities underwent swings last week that were unprecedented in
the history of the U.S. stock market, according to data compiled
by Birinyi Associates Inc., Bloomberg and  Howard Silverblatt ,
senior index analyst at Standard & Poor’s.  Stocks plunged today while Treasuries rallied, pushing
yields to record lows, amid growing signs the economy is slowing
and speculation that European banks lack sufficient capital.  The  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index tumbled 4.5 percent to
1,140.65 in  New York . Ten-year Treasury yields fell as much as
19 basis points to 1.97 percent. That’s down from 2.32 percent
on Aug. 8, the day before the FOMC announcement.  Policy Tools  Fed officials “discussed the range of policy tools”
available to boost growth and are “prepared to employ these
tools as appropriate,” the FOMC said in its Aug. 9 statement.  While the FOMC didn’t specify which tools it’s considering
using, Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said in July that if the
recovery weakens the Fed may weigh beginning a third round of
bond purchases or pledge to keep its balance sheet at a record
high for a longer period of time.  The Fed purchased $1.7 trillion of Treasury and mortgage
debt from December 2008 to March 2010, and another $600 billion
of Treasuries from November through June.  Fisher, 62, has been president of the Dallas Fed since
2005. As a voting member of the FOMC in 2008, he dissented five
times in favor of tighter policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in  San Francisco  at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  