-- 
Oklahoma’s Fallin Weighs Possible Effects of U.S. Defense, Education Cuts

-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 
2011-08-18T18:53:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/u-s-defense-education-cuts-may-damage-oklahoma-governor-says.html
U.S. spending cuts under President
Barack Obama’s plan to reduce the national debt may curb
military budgets and hurt the Oklahoma economy, Governor Mary Fallin said.  The state may also be affected by cuts in education aid and
highway funding by the Joint Select Committee, said Fallin, 56,
a Republican who took office in January. The committee is
charged with finding $1.5 trillion of spending cuts over 10
years under a debt-reduction deal Obama reached with Congress.  Defense-spending cuts “will have an impact,” Fallin said
in an interview at Bloomberg headquarters in  New York . “We’re
watching what Congress is doing. We have to be wise.’”  Federal civilian and military spending accounted for about
5.7 percent of Oklahoma personal income in 2009, according to
the state’s  2010 financial report . The state also depends on
manufacturing, including some military, for 8.2 percent of
personal income.  State and local economies may be hurt by cuts in federal
spending on Medicare, Medicaid and other so-called entitlement
programs, said Natalie Cohen, senior analyst with  Wells Fargo &
Co . in a report dated Aug. 16. States derive 28 percent of their
revenue from federal sources, according to the report.  Though Oklahoma takes funding for highways, Fallin has
rejected $54.6 million of payments to establish insurance
exchanges under Obama’s plan to overhaul the health-care system.
The state is receiving $589.7 million under the National Highway
Trust Fund, according to data compiled by Bloomberg Government.  Tax Cut  The state closed a $500 million deficit in its fiscal 2012
budget by cutting education spending and reducing allocations to
other programs, Fallin said. Oklahoma also lowered its top
personal income-tax rate by 0.25 percentage point, to 5.25
percent.  The governor has been visiting other states, such as
 Illinois , to try to lure companies to relocate by promoting the
tax cut and other initiatives designed to attract new
businesses. Oklahoma had a 5.3 percent unemployment rate in
June, one of the lowest in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Darrell Preston in  Dallas  at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  