-- 
Mortgage Rates in U.S. Tumble to Lowest in More Than 50 Years

-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 
2011-08-18T16:00:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/u-s-mortgage-rates-fall-to-lowest-in-at-least-50-years-freddie-mac-says.html
U.S.  mortgage rates  fell to the
lowest in more than half a century as concern that the global
economic recovery is faltering spurred demand for bonds that
guide home loans, according to Freddie Mac.  The average rate for a 30-year fixed loan dropped to 4.15
percent in the week ended today from 4.32 percent, the McLean,
Virginia-based mortgage financier said in a statement today.
That was the lowest in more than 50 years, Freddie Mac said. The
average 15-year rate fell to 3.36 percent from 3.5 percent.  The decline followed a slide in yields for 10-year Treasury
notes, a benchmark for consumer debt including mortgages. The
yield touched a record low today of 1.9735 percent, after Morgan
Stanley cut its forecast for global growth and concern grew that
 Europe ’s debt crisis may deepen. Lower mortgage rates have done
little to boost home demand as the housing market stagnates.  “Low interest rates are helpful at the margins but it’s
indicating a lot of concerns about the economy,” said  Scott Brown , chief economist for Raymond James & Associates Inc. in
 St. Petersburg ,  Florida . “The move into Treasuries is driven by
fear.”  Housing demand is depressed as the U.S. unemployment rate
sticks above 9 percent and lenders tighten standards. Sales of
previously owned homes unexpectedly dropped in July, according
to a report today by the National Association of Realtors.
Purchases fell 3.5 percent to a 4.67 million annual pace, the
weakest since November. The median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News called for an increase in sales.  Weak Demand  “The low rates are doing absolutely nothing to stimulate
the market for existing homes,” said  Patrick Newport , an
economist at IHS Global Insight in Lexington,  Massachusetts .
“It’s a combination of tight credit and weak demand coming from
uncertainty and housing prices falling.”  Freddie Mac  records dating back to 1971 show the previous
low for a 30-year fixed mortgage was 4.17 percent in November.
Data from the Bureau of Economic Research measuring Federal
Housing Administration loans indicate that long-term borrowing
costs are the lowest since the 1950s, said Chad Wandler, a
spokesman for Freddie Mac.  The lower mortgage rates are helping to boost refinancing
as homeowners seek to lower their monthly payments,  Frank Nothaft , Freddie Mac chief economist, said in the statement.  A Mortgage Bankers Association index of refinancing jumped
8 percent in the week ended Aug. 12, the Washington-based trade
group said yesterday. The share of applicants seeking to
refinance climbed to almost 79 percent, the largest since
November. The group’s purchasing gauge declined 9.1 percent to
the lowest level in a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  