-- 
U.S. Seasonal Drought Outlook for Sep. to Nov. 2011 (Text)

-- B y   M i k e   S e b a n y
-- 
2011-08-18T12:43:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/u-s-seasonal-drought-outlook-for-sep-to-nov-2011-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
 Seasonal Drought Outlook  as released by the National Weather
Service in  Camp Springs , Maryland:  Latest Seasonal Assessment - During July, while tropical Pacific
oceanic anomalies indicated ENSO-neutral, the atmospheric
patterns continue to reflect La Nina-like conditions. As we
progress into the Fall in the Northern Hemisphere, ENSO-neutral
conditions are expected to continue, with ENSO-neutral or La
Nina equally likely thereafter. In the United States, drought
attributed to the past La Nina event (Fall 2010-Spring 2011)
persisted, and in many cases intensified, in the southern
Plains, especially in eastern  New Mexico , Texas, and Oklahoma.
The lack of rain was accompanied by record heat, with July
temperatures averaging 6 to 10 degrees F above normal and
numerous days with triple-digit highs. Even Tropical Storm Don
did little to dent the drought in southern  Texas  as it quickly
dissipated making landfall. In contrast, drought was eased
across the central and eastern Gulf Coast as heavy thunderstorms
fell there, while seasonable rains aided Florida. The
Southwestern monsoon was a mixed bag, with surplus rains falling
on southeastern  California , parts of  Arizona , and southern Utah,
but subnormal rains occurred in New Mexico and southern
 Colorado . Above normal rains fell on the Pacific Northwest, and
from eastern Montana southeastward to the lower Great Lakes
region. With the assumption (for this outlook) that a weak La
Nina event will develop this fall (e.g. back to back La Nina
years), drought will persist or develop from the Southwest
eastward into the central  Gulf Coast  by the end of November.
Likewise, drier conditions are predicted for the upper Great
Lakes region as per the consecutive La Nina year composites. The
south-central Plains, however, were labeled some improvement due
to a slight wet correlation during the second year of a La Nina.
And since much of this region is already in D4 (lower second
percentile), it wouldn’t take too much precipitation to improve
to D3 (lower fifth percentile). In contrast, additional drought
improvement is anticipated across the southern and middle
Atlantic Coasts due to an expected above-normal Atlantic
Hurricane season, CPC’s September precipitation outlook, and
consecutive La Nina second year composites. Across Hawaii,
leeward drought persistence is expected, with some moderate
drought development in the southern islands currently in D0
(abnormal dryness) based upon forecasted subnormal Fall
precipitation from CPC. No drought is expected/forecasted for
Alaska or Puerto Rico.  SOURCE:  National Weather Service   To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Sebany in Washington at 
 msebany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  