-- 
U.S. Stocks Tumble on Global Economy, European Funding Concerns

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-08-18T20:47:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/u-s-stock-index-futures-slide-jpmorgan-morgan-stanley-netapp-decline.html
U.S. stocks tumbled, sending the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  down more than 400 points for the
fourth time this month, on concern the global economy is slowing
and speculation that European banks lack enough capital.  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  and  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  fell at least 4.9 percent,
pacing losses in stocks most-tied to the economy, as a
Philadelphia-area manufacturing index sank to the lowest since
2009, jobless claims and consumer prices rose, and existing home
sales slid.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  fell more
than 6 percent, following a plunge in European lenders. Hewlett-
Packard Co. sank 6 percent after cutting its earnings forecast.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slumped 4.5 percent to
1,140.65 at 4 p.m. in New York. All 10 groups in the S&P 500
dropped at least 1.2 percent, and only 10 stocks in the
benchmark gauge advanced. The Dow fell 419.63 points, or 3.7
percent, to 10,990.58. Treasuries rallied, pushing 10-year
yields to a record low. About 11.6 billion shares changed hands
on U.S. exchanges as of 4:27 p.m., 44 percent more than the
three-month average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s almost like a worldwide buyers strike,” Michael Mullaney, who helps manage $9.5 billion at Fiduciary Trust in
Boston, said in a telephone interview. “There’s a general
malaise on global economic activity. People continue to
downgrade their expectations on growth. There’s concern about
funding problems. That’s making us very nervous and we want to
take risk out of portfolios at least for the immediate future.”  S&P 500 ’s Decline  Today’s stock rout erased more than $600 billion of U.S.
market value. The S&P 500 has tumbled 16 percent from its April
29 high, matching the retreat between April 23 and July 2, 2010,
previously the biggest contraction of the bull market that began
in March 2009. The decline from April 29 through Aug. 8 left the
S&P 500 within 29 points of entering a bear market. European
shares and the Russell 2000 Index entered a bear market last
week, falling at least 20 percent from their previous highs.  “The massive exodus from risk markets reflects heightened
concerns with a possible recession and the accelerated loss of
trust in policymakers,” Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive
officer and co-chief investment officer at Pacific Investment
Management Co., the world’s biggest manager of bond funds, wrote
in an e-mail. “Importantly, such worries will now be compounded
by concerns about technical damage to key markets. The risk is
of a rapidly deteriorating negative feedback loop of weakening
fundamentals, inadequate policies and bad technicals.”  ‘Dangerously Close’  Global stocks tumbled today after Morgan Stanley cut its
forecast for global growth this year, citing an “insufficient”
policy response to  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis, weakened
confidence and the prospect of fiscal tightening. The bank
estimates expansion of 3.9 percent, down from a previous
forecast of 4.2 percent, according to a report dated today.  The U.S. and Europe are “dangerously close to recession,”
Morgan Stanley analysts including Chetan Ahya said in the note.
“Recent policy errors, especially Europe’s slow and
insufficient response to the sovereign crisis and the drama
around lifting the U.S. debt ceiling, have weighed down on
financial markets and eroded business and consumer confidence.”  U.S. equities slumped after a report showed that the
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic index
plunged to minus 30.7 this month, the lowest since March 2009,
from 3.2 in July. The August gauge exceeded the most pessimistic
projection in a Bloomberg News survey in which the median
estimate was 2. Readings less than zero signal contraction in
the area covering eastern Pennsylvania, southern  New Jersey  and
Delaware.  Jobless Claims  Government data also showed that more Americans than
forecast filed applications for unemployment benefits last week,
while the cost of living climbed in July by the most in four
months. Separately, the National Association of Realtors said
that sales of U.S. previously owned homes unexpectedly dropped
in July, reflecting an increase in contract cancellations due to
strict lending rules and low appraisals.  The Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index of companies most-tied to
economic growth slumped 6.8 percent as all of its 30 stocks
retreated. The Dow Jones Transportation Average of 20 stocks,
also considered a proxy for the economy, tumbled 6.1 percent. A
gauge of homebuilders in S&P indexes declined 6.7 percent.  Caterpillar, the world’s largest construction and mining-
equipment maker, slumped 4.9 percent to $83.33. FedEx, operator
of the world’s biggest cargo airline, sank 5.9 percent to
$74.46. PulteGroup Inc., the largest U.S. homebuilder by
revenue, decreased 11 percent to $4.16.  Banks Tumble  American banks tumbled, following losses in European
financial shares, as Sweden’s financial regulator said his
country’s lenders must do more to prepare for a worsening in
Europe’s debt crisis. The  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  of 24 stocks retreated
5.6 percent. Bank of America, the largest U.S. lender by assets,
sank 6 percent to $7.01. Citigroup dropped 6.3 percent to
$27.98.  Banks also slumped after the Wall Street Journal reported
that American regulators are intensifying scrutiny of the U.S.
arms of Europe’s largest banks amid concern about the region’s
debt crisis, citing people familiar with the matter.  Hewlett-Packard dropped 6 percent to $29.51 after jumping
as much as 8.3 percent earlier. The world’s largest computer
maker forecast fiscal fourth-quarter and full-year earnings that
missed analysts’ estimates as lackluster  consumer spending 
failed to offset corporate purchases of printers, computers and
servers. Hewlett-Packard confirmed it’s considering a spinoff
for its PC business and that it has agreed to buy software maker
Autonomy Corp. for $10.3 billion.  Commodity Producers  Gauges of energy and raw-material producers slid at least
5.6 percent. Oil, wheat and copper led declines in commodity
markets on concern that slower economic growth will weaken
demand for raw materials. Gold surged to a record as investors
fled stocks for the perceived safety of the metal.  Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest U.S. aluminum producer, decreased
6.1 percent to $11.51.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  fell 4.3 percent to
$70.94.  Treasuries surged, pushing yields to record lows, as
investors seek a refuge in the world’s safest securities on
concern global growth is slowing and speculation inflation will
remain subdued.  “The bond market is indicating certainty of a recession,”
Chad Morganlander, a Florham Park, New Jersey-based money
manager at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., which oversees more than $115
billion in client assets, said in a telephone interview.
“Uncertainty regarding recession risk puts S&P 500’s earnings
estimates in peril of drastic cuts, repricing stock market
valuations and expectations lower.”  S&P 500 Earnings  Since the third quarter of last year, companies in the S&P
500 have earned $774.3 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, pushing per-share profit to $91.44 as of yesterday
from $74.97 on July 2, 2010.  Analysts have underestimated U.S. earnings for eight
straight quarters, with S&P 500 companies beating forecasts by
an average of 5.1 percent in the three months ended in June. At
the start of the last recession, their projections for overall
profit proved 8.2 percentage points too high in the third
quarter of 2007, and 33.5 points too high in the fourth. That
was the biggest miss ever, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Most U.S. stocks declined yesterday, wiping out an earlier
advance, amid speculation that the Fed may not consider another
economic stimulus program to avert a recession.  ‘Inappropriate Policy’  Bernanke’s pledge last week to keep  interest rates  near
zero percent until mid-2013 was “inappropriate policy at an
inappropriate time,”  Charles Plosser , president of the Fed Bank
of Philadelphia, said yesterday in a radio interview on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt.
Dallas President Richard Fisher said the central bank shouldn’t
enact policy to protect stock investors. Both officials
dissented from the Fed’s Aug. 9 statement.  “It’s ugly out there,” Paul Zemsky, the New York-based
head of asset allocation for ING Investment Management, said in
a telephone interview. His firm oversees $550 billion. “It’s a
combination of concern of a potential recession and the lack of
policy tools to fight it. Until people see a bottom, they are
not going to buy stocks. There will be pressure on the equity
market until we see a solid policy response.”  Setting the Stage  U.S. stocks may slip to new lows in the next few weeks,
setting the stage for a rally of more than 20 percent in the S&P
500, Tom DeMark, the creator of indicators meant to identify
turning points in markets, said in an Aug. 16 interview. The S&P
500, which closed at 1,193.89 yesterday, will probably drop
below the 11-month low of 1,119.46 set on Aug. 8 before surging
above 1,363.61, its peak on April 29, according to DeMark.  U.S. and European options gauges surged. The VIX, as the
Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index is known, jumped
35 percent to 42.67. The  VStoxx Index (V2X) , which measures the cost
of protecting against declines in the Euro Stoxx 50 Index,
snapped a five-day losing streak. It climbed 35 percent, the
most since May 2010, to 47.17. Volatility gauges in  Hong Kong ,
South Korea,  Japan  and  India  also rose.  The selloff in U.S. stocks may be close to ending with
valuations so low they could withstand a 15 percent decline in
profits, said  Barton Biggs , the hedge fund manager who said this
month he was selling shares. The tumble in stocks shows that
investors expect a slowing economy to spur analysts to lower
earnings estimates, he said.  Earnings at S&P 500 companies are forecast to climb 17
percent to $99.08 a share in 2011 and 14 percent to $112.90 in
2012, estimates compiled by Bloomberg show. The index is trading
at 12.4 times profits in the last 12 months, 24 percent below
its five-decade average.  “It’s very possible, in the grand scheme of things, that
what we’re seeing is the classic retest of the lows of 10 days
ago,” Biggs said on Bloomberg Television today. “We may be in
the process of making an important bottom.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  