-- 
News Corp. Said to Be Sued by Former Investigator Mulcaire Over Legal Fees

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-08-18T18:21:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/mulcaire-investigator-jailed-for-hacking-model-s-phone-sues-news-corp-.html
Glenn Mulcaire , the private
investigator jailed in 2007 for intercepting voice-mail messages
while working for News Corp.’s defunct News of the World tabloid,
sued the company, which had stopped paying his legal fees.  The lawsuit's court papers didn't state why Mulcaire had sued.
He claims a breach of contract because the company stopped paying
his legal bills, according to a person familiar with the case who
wasn’t authorized to speak about it publicly. Mulcaire sued News
Group Newspapers Ltd., which publishes the Sun tabloid and formerly
the News of the World, in London court yesterday.  Mulcaire, who intercepted messages left for model  Elle Macpherson  and members of the British royal family, is a key
figure in the phone-hacking scandal that prompted the closure of
the 168-year-old tabloid last month after revelations that
journalists had hacked the phone of a murdered schoolgirl.  News Corp. (NWSA)  Chief Executive Officer  Rupert Murdoch  and his
son James told U.K. lawmakers last month they didn’t know if the
company was still paying legal fees for Mulcaire. The company
said the next day they would immediately terminate “any
arrangement” to pay Mulcaire’s bills. The documents outlining
his claims aren’t publicly available under British law until
News Group files a response to the court acknowledging the suit.  Mulcaire’s lawyer, Sarah Webb, didn’t immediately respond
to a request for comment. A spokeswoman for News Corp.’s U.K.
unit,  Daisy Dunlop , said the lawsuit had been received.  “The claim will be vigorously contested,” Dunlop said.  Civil Cases  Mulcaire and News Group are defendants in dozens of civil
lawsuits filed by individuals who claim their voice mails were
accessed.  London ’s Metropolitan Police are examining Mulcaire’s
notebooks and contacting possible victims. Today police arrested
James Desborough, a former Hollywood reporter for the News of
the World, according to a person familiar with the probe. He is
the 13th person arrested in the investigation.  The British detective in charge of the phone hacking
inquiry said last month her team is trying to contact potential
victims as fast as it can. Sue Akers, the deputy assistant
police commissioner, said there are almost 4,000 names in the
11,000 pages of documents seized by police in 2006. The
documents include Mulcaire’s notebooks.  The original investigation was closed after Mulcaire and
former News of the World royal reporter  Clive Goodman  were
jailed in 2007. The case was reopened in January after civil
lawsuits by the actress  Sienna Miller  and others revealed the
crime went beyond the two men. Police subsequently opened a
second probe, into allegations of police corruption, and a third
investigation into computer hacking and breaches of privacy.  2007 Letter  Goodman, in a 2007 letter published this week by a
parliamentary committee investigating phone hacking, said the
crime was widespread at the News of the World, editors discussed
it during meetings and that he was promised his job back if he
didn’t reveal the problem to law enforcement. The company
settled with him for close to 250,000 pounds ($412,000) after he
claimed he was unfairly dismissed following being jailed.  News Corp. paid Mulcaire's lawyers 246,000 pounds before
ending such reimbursements,  James Murdoch  said in a statement to
Parliament Aug. 16.  The case is: Glenn Michael Mulcaire v. News Group
Newspapers Ltd., case no 11-2867,  High Court  of Justice,
 Chancery Division  (London).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  