-- 
Tullow May Cut Oil Output Guidance on Jubilee Ramp-Up Delay

-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 
2011-08-18T15:58:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/tullow-may-cut-production-guidance-after-jubilee-ramp-up-delay.html
Tullow Oil Plc (TLW) , the London-based
explorer with the most licenses in  Africa , may cut production
guidance for this year after delays at projects including
Jubilee, its largest field, analysts said.  The Tullow-led $3.4 billion  Jubilee oil field  off Ghana
will reach its output plateau by the end of the year, about four
months later than the original target, Kosmos Energy Ltd., its
partner in the venture, said last week. Tullow has also faced
drilling delays in  Kenya , Ghana and  French Guiana .  Tullow is likely to reduce full-year extraction guidance to
below 90,000 barrels a day, the low end of a range announced on
July 5, Dragan Trajkov, an oil and gas analyst at Renaissance
Capital Ltd. in  London , said by phone. While the delay at
Jubilee is unexpected, more serious to Tullow would be any
impact on the field’s estimated resources arising from the later
target, he said.  George Cazenove, a London-based spokesman at Tullow,
declined to comment, saying the company will provide an update
with its first-half results on Aug. 24.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc has already lowered its
forecast for Tullow’s production to 88,000 barrels of oil
equivalent a day from an earlier estimate of 94,000 barrels,
Phil Corbett, an analyst at RBS, which is Tullow’s in-house
broker, said today.  Tullow fell 7.1 percent to 994 pence in London, the most
since December, 2008. The shares have fallen about 21 percent
this year.  Higher Target  The Jubilee delay “is a concern because as you move
forward, a higher proportion of Tullow’s production base is due
to arrive from” it, Gerry Hennigan, an analyst with  Goodbody
Stockbrokers  in Dublin, said yesterday by phone. Some
exploration issues are beyond Tullow’s control, he said.  Jubilee ,  Ghana ’s largest oil field, was due to reach a
plateau rate of 120,000 barrels a day in late August, Paul McDade, Tullow’s chief operating officer, said July 5. The
company in July raised its full-year output target.  The same month, Dallas-based Kosmos said it may delay
drilling of its Cedrela-1 exploration well off Ghana to the
fourth quarter after  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) ’s Marianas rig was damaged
while working for  Eni SpA. (ENI)  Tullow is a partner in the project.  In May, Tullow and partners including  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) 
and  Total SA (FP)  delayed the completion of their Zaedyus exploration
well off French Guiana until August because of drilling
disruptions.  ‘Recognize Potential’  Tullow and  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  suspended exploration
off  Ivory Coast  in February because of political unrest in the
country. At the same time, Tullow is proceeding with drilling of
exploration wells in some West African nations and beyond.  The partners are currently drilling the first deepwater
well in Liberia and plan to use the same rig for a well in
 Sierra Leone , Bob Daniels, Anadarko’s senior vice president for
worldwide exploration, said yesterday. The companies will bring
a rig start drilling two wells off Ivory Coast later this year.  “Second half of 2011 sees Tullow drilling some material
exploration wells in Liberia, Sierra Leone, Guyana and starting
with the Zaedyus result in French Guiana this month,”  Richard Griffith , a London-based analyst at Evolution Securities Ltd.,
wrote in an Aug. 12 note. “If the markets don’t recognize this
potential, industry may do instead.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  