-- 
Hungarian Bonds Rally for Ninth Day to Strongest in Two Months

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-08-18T09:02:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/hungarian-bonds-rally-for-ninth-day-to-strongest-in-two-months.html
Hungarian  government bonds  extended
the world’s biggest rally in the past week after Prime Minister
 Viktor Orban ’s pledge to meet budget targets added to bets the
central bank will cut  interest rates .  The yield on government notes maturing in November 2017
fell three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 6.983
percent as of 10 a.m. in Budapest. That compared with 7.797
percent on Aug. 5 and marked the lowest yield since June 15. The
forint weakened 0.6 percent to 271.4 per euro.  “Hungarian government bonds had a spectacular day
yesterday,” BNP analysts led by Bartosz Pawlowski in  London 
said in a research report today. “We think there’s more to go
because a strong commitment of the government to deliver on its
targets will probably amplify bets on interest rate cuts.”  Inflation may be lower than forecast and additional
measures will be needed to cut public debt, the highest among
eastern members of the European Union, in light of the second-
quarter growth data, Orban told reporters yesterday.  Hungary ’s gross domestic product was unchanged in the
second quarter from the previous three months, the statistics
office said Aug. 16, while expansion in the country’s largest
export market,  Germany , almost stalled.  “A growth undershoot may put pressure on the government to
postpone some of the most socially unpopular measures,”
economists at Morgan Stanley including Pasquale Diana in London
wrote in a research report dated yesterday.  “Against this kind of backdrop, the National Bank of
Hungary may be unable to lower interest rates, despite slower
growth and a reasonably benign inflation environment,” the
Morgan Stanley analysts said. “This is because the risk
environment remains a key variable.”  Borrowing Costs  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank left borrowing costs at 6 percent
for a sixth month on July 26 as focus shifted from inflation to
the impact of  Europe ’s debt crisis on the economy. Policy makers
said they planned to leave borrowing costs unchanged for an
“extended period.”  The central bank will probably keep rates unchanged at its
next meeting next week, according to all 14 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg.  “The Hungarian government bond market is just about the
only one in the world which can boast of being in better shape
than before the panic, excluding safe-haven assets,” Gergely Tardos, head of research at OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s largest
lender, and colleagues wrote in an e-mail to clients today. The
market priced in 50 basis points of rate cuts within one year,
the OTP analysts added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest 
 agergely@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  