-- 
Municipal Bonds May Face Downgrades Following Final U.S. Budget, S&P Says

-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 
2011-08-18T19:22:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/municipal-bonds-may-face-downgrades-following-final-u-s-budget-s-p-says.html
Standard & Poor’s , the credit rating
company that cut the U.S. to AA+, said the federal budget deal
may lead to downgrades on municipal credits.  The company, which said earlier this month that states and
local governments could remain AAA even after the U.S. cut, said
in a report today downgrades could come after reductions in
federal funding or changed policy. Ratings changes would come
based on “differing levels of reliance on federal funding, and
varying management capabilities,” and, after the Budget Control
Act of 2011, will be felt “unevenly across the sector,” S&P
said.  “Experience tells me I would expect there to be some
downgrades,” said S&P credit analyst Gabriel Petek in a
telephone interview. “These cuts are coming in addition to the
losses of revenue that already came during the recession.”  The initial budget cuts would be smaller than the revenue
losses during the recession that ended June 2009, he said.
States lost $67 billion in aggregate during the 18-month
contraction, the report said. The federal government has planned
$7 billion in cuts, most of which won’t be implemented until
2013, giving states some time to prepare, Petek said.  S&P will begin evaluating states and local governments
starting Nov. 23, when a panel of 12 members of Congress, split
evenly between Republicans and Democrats, is supposed to come up
with recommendations, Petek said.  Federal Funding  In 2009, when the U.S. introduced economic stimulus,
federal spending on average was 24.6 percent of state gross
domestic product, the report said. States that had federal funds
representing more than 30 percent of GDP included  Alabama ,
Alaska, Hawaii, Kentucky,  Maryland , Montana, Mississippi,  New
Mexico  and West Virginia. The state with the lowest percentage
was  Delaware .  “We do not have immediate concerns at the state and local
levels,” said  Natalie Cohen , managing director and senior
municipal-bond analyst for Wells Fargo Securities, in an Aug. 16
report.  The 11,500 municipal bonds already downgraded from AAA in
lockstep with the U.S. were a “logical extension,” and “not a
symptom of a meltdown in the municipal-bond market,” she wrote.
The debt was directly dependent on federal funding.  S&P mentioned possible changes to the municipal market if
 tax policy  is altered. If tax cuts enacted during  George W.
Bush ’s presidency are allowed to expire, federal taxes would
increase and the  tax exemption  on municipal bonds would be more
attractive to investors and drive yields on municipal bonds
lower, S&P said.  Alternatively, Congress could limit some of the tax
exemptions on municipal bonds to raise more government revenue,
which would likely increase interest costs, S&P said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  