-- 
Volatile Stocks to Leave Lasting Scars on Fund Investors’ Psyche

-- B y   L a u r a   K e e l e y
-- 
2011-08-18T20:49:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/volatile-stocks-to-leave-lasting-scars-on-fund-investors-psyche.html
Last week’s record volatility in
U.S. stocks ended after four days. The anxiety it instilled
among mutual-fund investors may linger for years.  Investors pulled a net $23.5 billion from U.S. equity funds
in the week ended Aug. 10, the most since October 2008, when
markets were reeling from the collapse a month earlier of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., the Investment Company Institute said
yesterday. The period tracked by the Washington-based trade
group included three of the unprecedented four consecutive days
in which the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose or fell by at
least 4 percent.  The roller-coaster ride was unnerving for fund investors
who have already endured the bursting of the Internet bubble in
2000, a 57 percent collapse in the  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  from October
2007 to March 2009 and the one-day plunge in May 2010 that
briefly erased $862 billion in value from U.S. shares. The
debacles, combined with falling home prices, unemployment above
9 percent and a lack of trust in government to bring down
spending, may sour individual investors on domestic stock funds
for an additional three to five years, according to Andrew Goldberg, a market strategist at JPMorgan Funds in New York.  “You can’t keep having bombs, so to speak, go off,”
Goldberg said in a telephone interview. “If the second you walk
outside another one goes off, you’re going to stay inside for
longer, and that’s what’s going on.”  The S&P 500 tumbled 4.5 percent today on growing signs the
economy is slowing and speculation that European banks lack
sufficient capital.  History Not Repeating  The $12.2 trillion mutual-fund industry has historically
been able to count on investors to come back to stocks after a
significant selloff. They did so following “Black Monday” in
October 1987, the Asian currency crisis in 1997 and  Russia ’s
debt default in 1998. In the year after the 2000-2002 bear
market, U.S. equity funds attracted $130 billion, ICI data show.  Funds that buy domestic stocks lost $98 billion in 33
straight weeks of withdrawals last year after the 20-minute
plunge in May, ICI data show. They’ve had redemptions of $74
billion this year. The latest withdrawal streak began in 2007
and didn’t end even as stock surged from their March 2009 lows.  “What we have seen this time is a much slower return to
risk-taking,” said Francis Kinniry, principal at Vanguard Group
Inc. in Valley Forge,  Pennsylvania , the largest U.S. mutual-fund
manager. He attributes the difference to falling home prices. In
bear markets prior to 2008, residential property values were
rising.  “There was significantly more wealth destruction this time
around,” Kinniry said.  Index Funds, Bonds  Investors have compensated by shifting some of their money
into passively managed index funds and exchange-traded funds
that track stock benchmarks, forsaking managers who select the
investments they buy and sell.  U.S. stock index funds have posted net deposits every year
since 2001, according to Morningstar Inc., a Chicago-based
research firm. Investors have similarly poured $851.5 billion
into ETFs for all asset classes from 2001 to July 2011. Unlike
mutual funds, ETF trade throughout the day like stocks.  Bond funds also have been winners, adding $75 billion in
deposits this year, while funds that buy non-U.S. stocks took in
$15 billion, according to ICI.  “Over the past couple of years and especially the past
couple of weeks, I have heard a large number of clients and
acquaintances express fear and dislike for the stock market,”
Eitan Tashman, a financial planner in  Beverly Hills ,  California ,
said in a phone interview. While “many investors are scared of
the volatility and seeming instability of the stock market and
would even like remove their money from the stock market,”
there are few alternatives, he said.  Baby Boomers  The post-World War II generation known as the baby boomers
is the largest group of investors in mutual funds, said  Geoff Bobroff , an investment-management consultant in  East Greenwich ,
 Rhode Island . As they go into retirement, they might not return
to equities after two bear markets and the volatility this year,
he said.  “They are already thinking now about their retirement
years,” Bobroff said. “They may be in fixed-income of
different flavors, but equities may no longer be on their
horizon.”  The recent volatility makes Mark Beller, 42, a physician in
Northridge, California, want to put more of his money into real
estate.  “The market is so volatile, 1,400 points in a week? Give
me a break,” Beller said in a phone interview. “I have money
to invest, and my portfolio is down about 15 to 20 percent, so
I’m going to wait for it to come back to where I feel
comfortable.”  Cash is King  Younger investors aren’t replacing their retiring
counterparts. Cash holdings are at the highest levels since the
record in March 2009, according to an Aug. 16 survey by Bank of
America Merrill Lynch. Investors from 18 to 30 years old have
the highest cash position of any age group at 30 percent of
their portfolio, MFS Investment Management said in an Aug. 8
report. Almost three in five investors cite fear about
volatility or needing money someday as a reason they hold high
or increasing levels of cash.  “Investors are in cash for a reason and, regardless of
time horizon, conventional investing wisdom no longer applies,”
William Finnegan, senior managing director of retail marketing
at the Boston-based firm, said in the report. “The Great
Recession of 2008 has had a profound and longer-lasting impact
on investors’ confidence than expected.”  The average investor tends to hold large amounts of cash
when the markets are at a low and thus miss out on gains,
JPMorgan’s Goldberg said. The previous high of cash as a
percentage of portfolios was in October 2002, right before the
start of a five-year  bull market .  Institutions Hold Tight  “Households had become so conservative that they were
sitting on all this cash that should’ve been seeking out
opportunity,” he said. “To the extent that emotions drive
decisions, they’re going to get it wrong.”  Brad Durham , managing director of research at EPFR Global
in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , said retail investors are exiting
funds while institutions are modestly adding to their holdings.
Retail investors pulled $26 billion from U.S. equity funds from
May 1 to Aug. 10, while institutions added $689 million, he
said.  “Institutions are using this period to change their
exposures around and they’re not selling as aggressively, while
retail investors have just been fleeing,” Durham said.  The return of the  S&P 500  during the past 10 years has been
about 3 percent including dividends. Investors have experienced
“a far greater degree of volatility than one would expect for
such meager returns,” Greggory Warren, a Morningstar analyst,
wrote in a June 29 research note.  Toll on Managers  “The problem is you don’t really know what to do,” said
 James Dean , 67, a salesman for an information-services company
who lives in Panama City,  Florida . “There’s no rhyme or reason
for the market to be doing what it’s doing other then the mess
our government has gotten us into.”  The investor exodus is taking a toll on publicly traded
fund companies. The S&P index of money managers and custody
banks has fallen 15 percent since the May 2010 plunge, compared
with the 5.8 percent increase by the S&P 500, a benchmark for
the largest U.S. companies.  Janus Capital Group Inc. (JNS) , which is off 47 percent, led the
drop. About 89 percent of the Denver-based company’s assets
under management is in stock funds. It has had eight straight
quarters of net withdrawals totaling $21.6 billion.  American Funds, Fidelity  Closely held American Funds and Fidelity Investments are
among the big asset managers bearing the brunt of investor
defections from U.S. stock funds, according to Morningstar.
American, owned by Los Angeles-based Capital Group Cos., had an
estimated $43 billion in redemptions this year through July,
while Boston-based Fidelity lost $8.8 billion, Morningstar data
show.  Diversified managers such as  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ) ,  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) 
and  Franklin Resources Inc. (BEN)  are the firms best prepared to
capitalize on the environment, Morningstar’s Warren said.
Invesco, based in Atlanta, bought Morgan Stanley’s Van Kampen
mutual funds last year, giving it a broader domestic base. San
Mateo, California-based Franklin has 89 percent of its assets
outside of domestic equities. The Templeton Global Bond Fund
attracted $10.9 billion through June, the most of any U.S.
mutual fund.  BlackRock of  New York , the world’s largest asset manager
with $3.66 trillion assets under management, owns iShares, the
biggest provider of ETFs.  ‘Pleasantly Surprised’  Vanguard, which has about half its mutual-fund assets in
index funds, saw net deposits of $30 billion this year through
July, according to Morningstar. At Pacific Investment Management
Co., the  Newport Beach , California-based manager of the world’s
biggest bond fund, investors put in $25 billion this year.  Not all investors are panicking or leaving the market.  “Generally, they’re holding tight, and I’ve been
pleasantly surprised,” Kevin O’Reilly, a financial adviser
based in Phoenix, said in a telephone interview. “I haven’t
gotten, really, nearly as many calls panicking as I thought I
would have.”  Investors may be getting used to the volatility, which
isn’t necessarily a good thing, said Lee Ann Knight, a financial
adviser in Bedford, Massachusetts.  “They may be immune to worrying about it when they should
be,” she said. “What surprised me is that I have had a few
phone calls from people wanting to use this opportunity to
invest. That’s great, that’s good, but I feel like I had these
conversations for 10 years, and people were like, ‘No way, no
way.” ‘  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Keeley in Boston at 
 lkeeley1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 