-- 
Wall Street Sweats Stress in Bikram Yoga

-- B y   L y d i a   W i n k l e r   a n d   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-08-18T14:36:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/wall-street-sweats-stress-with-106-degree-yoga-that-assuaged-richard-nixon.html
The night before the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index took its biggest drop in two years, futures
trader Corina Cotenescu said she sensed something coming. So she
spent 1 1/2 hours in a muggy, 106-degree room, stretching and
contorting her body.  Cotenescu teaches and practices Bikram yoga, a 40-year-old
branch of the ancient discipline conducted in heat and humidity
that has found a niche on  Wall Street  and Hollywood and grown
into a $365 million-a-year business, based on the practice’s own
figures.  “I had it in the back of my mind,” Cotenescu, 34, said of
her Aug. 3 premonition, which was followed the next day by a
fall in the S&P 500 index of 4.8 percent to an eight-month low,
its biggest drop since February 2009. “The class helped me let
it go.”  When she teaches, in a mirror-lined room on Manhattan’s
Upper East Side, the only sounds are her commands for the 26
poses of yoga and two breathing exercises. A practitioner since
2003, Cotenescu trades crude oil derivatives at CEC Futures LLC
in the morning before her class at  Bikram Yoga NYC  in the
afternoon. She said the heat of the Bikram floor is a respite
from the heat of the trading floor.  “If I lost money, I go straight to class, because I know I
have emotional baggage that I need to get out,” she said in
June, with the temperature outside about 15 degrees cooler than
in her workspace. “Bikram yoga gives me the physical and
emotional gratification and trading gives me the intellectual
gratification,” said Cotenescu, who came to the U.S. when she
was 23 from  Romania .  Football More Dangerous  People practicing Bikram must make sure to drink plenty of
water, said Julie DiMartini, director of research for the
University of  Connecticut ’s  Korey Stringer Institute , which is
dedicated to preventing sudden death in sports.  “If you’re not used to it, physiologically your body is
working a lot harder to keep your body temperature at a
comfortable and safe limit,” DiMartini said.  Yoga itself is less dangerous than practicing football or
going for a 5-mile run in 106-degree heat because it is less
strenuous, she said.  The Los Angeles-based  Bikram’s Yoga College of India  said
classes cost around $20 each and an estimated 50,000 people
attend studios each day. The number of certified studios in
Manhattan has grown to 14 from eight, or 75 percent, in the past
five years, according to the discipline’s global headquarters.  In New York state, the number of health clubs overall
declined 8.9 percent to 1,760 from 1,933 over the past five
years, according to the International Health, Racquet &
Sportsclub Association.  ‘Recession Proof’ Yoga  Cotenescu said that Bikram is “recession proof.”  “People are at yoga in good times and bad times,” she
said. “In good times, the rooms are full because people feel
good about themselves and want to look good. When it’s bad
times, the rooms are full because people want to relieve the
stress.”  Bikram Yoga NYC was New York’s first studio, company co-
founder Jennifer Lobo said in an interview. She said teachers
make from $55 to $110 per class.  Michael Pintar, a fixed income and currency portfolio
manager at Cura Capital Management LLC, goes to Bikram six days
a week. Earlier this year, the 38-year-old  Manhattan  resident
married his former Bikram teacher, Lorenza Chiaramonte.  “To me it’s something now that is so intertwined in my
life that I really don’t view it as repetitive because it’s just
part of a daily practice or daily routine for me,” Pintar said
in an interview. “You never get to perfection.”  Rolls-Royces, Bentleys  Only those who pay $11,000 for a nine-week training session
conducted by the discipline’s founder, Bikram Choudhury, are
certified to teach. Participants sleep about two hours a night.
The 65-year-old Choudhury, who teaches wearing only a Speedo and
a Rolex, declined to divulge the annual income of his closely
held yoga empire, but said he keeps 35 Rolls-Royce and Bentley
automobiles in his Los Angeles garage.  Since the discipline’s official creation in 1971, Bikram
has been practiced by celebrities such as  Kobe Bryant , the  Los
Angeles Lakers ’ All-Star guard;  Andy Murray , No. 4 on the ATP
World Tour in men’s tennis; and the singer Madonna.  Choudhury says President  Richard Nixon  came to him for help
in 1972 while suffering from advanced thrombophlebitis, a
swelling of veins due to blood clots, in his left leg.  Treating Nixon  Choudhury said he was asked to treat the late president,
who was unable to walk because of his pain. He instructed Nixon
to do yoga in a bathtub filled with hot water. After three days,
Nixon was walking again, and the pain never returned, Choudhury
said.  “When I asked him a few days later which leg caused him
trouble, Nixon said he didn’t remember,” Choudhury said in a
telephone interview in July.  The  Nixon Presidential Library & Museum  doesn’t contain
information regarding the former president’s medical records and
thus couldn’t confirm Choudhury’s account, archivist Melissa
Heddon said in an e-mail.  The Bikram heat and humidity increases blood flow, loosens
the body and allows muscles to stretch more than normal,
DiMartini said in a telephone interview. It also affects the
body’s ability to cool off and is most dangerous if you aren’t
familiar with the environment.  The heat doesn’t increase the risk of pulled muscles, and
the nature of the discipline makes the workout safer than more
intense training in a similar environment, she said.  “If you compare that to football practice or running 5
miles, the good thing is that yoga is a low-intensity type of
activity,” said DiMartini, 26. “There isn’t as much harm
potential.”  Staying Hydrated  DiMartini’s institute is named for Korey Stringer, an
offensive tackle for the  Minnesota Vikings  who died in August
2001 at the age of 27 after collapsing at practice on the
hottest day of the year. She said that drinking at least one
liter of water throughout each Bikram session is critical to
staying healthy. Lobo encourages her students to hydrate
throughout classes, in which she says they burn between 500-700
calories.  There are 21.8 million yoga participants in the U.S., 75
percent female, and 57 percent with a college degree or higher,
according to the 2011 yoga participation report conducted by the
Sporting Goods Manufacturers Association. Yoga has increased by
23.2 percent in participation from 2008 to 2010.  Professional Success  “More people are coming more because they are stressed
even if they are not necessarily traders,” Cotenescu said.
“This market and this crash is affecting everyone, not only the
traders, so people need to have a release.”  Pintar said Bikram is essential to his personal and
professional success.  “I’ve been able to handle things much better,” he said.
“There’s always going to be ups and downs in trading or
managing money, and I think before I reacted much more
negatively to bad things that would happen, you know, bad days
trading, than I do now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net ;
Lydia Winkler in New York at 
 lwinkler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  