-- 
Water Is Future for ‘Cleantech’ Investment, Frog Capital’s Omari Says

-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 
2011-08-18T07:00:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/water-is-future-for-cleantech-investment-frog-capital-s-omari-says.html
Clean water, in short supply for
almost 1 billion people around the world, will be the focus of
investment for Frog Capital Ltd. as the U.K. venture capital
firm sees rising demand from a burgeoning global population.  “There’s a lot of innovation and effort going into how the
water supply is treated and managed,” Iyad Omari, a partner at
the London-based Frog Capital Cleantech Fund, said in an
interview. “I’ve seen hundreds of small companies that are
doing innovative things in this area.”  Almost half the world’s population will be living in areas
affected by “high water stress” by 2030, according to the
 United Nations . As growing numbers of people put pressure on
limited supplies of drinking water, there’s increasing demand
for technology that can make water treatment cheaper, cleaner,
more widespread and more efficient.  Frog Capital , which has invested in two water-purification
companies, has 60 percent to 70 percent of its initial 100
million-euro ($144 million) capital still to invest, Omari said
in London on Aug. 11. The firm sees an “impressive growth
rate” among “innovative” wastewater companies, he said.  Frog Capital has divested three companies from its
portfolio in the past 12 months, accumulating funds to channel
into businesses producing technology that harnesses renewable
power, boosts  energy efficiency  and reduces waste.  Frog Investments  The firm has invested in  Ostara Nutrient Recovery
Technologies Inc. , a Vancouver-based purification company that
recycles phosphorus and ammonia from sewage into fertilizer. The
process treats water without recourse to desalination
facilities, cutting costs.  “Desalination is extremely interesting but it’s something
everybody thinks of,” Omari said, adding that Ostara is in
talks on a partnership with  Veolia Environnement SA (VIE) , the world’s
largest water company. “A wastewater treatment business that is
also a fertilizer company has the potential to be huge.”  With the global population adding 75 million people a year,
food demand is set to put further strain on crops, increasing
the need for fertilizer and spurring investment in technology to
expand output.  “The whole environmental sector is getting out of its old
skin and getting into a new one, which is about thinking outside
the box,” Omari said.  As shares in solar and wind companies slump on concern the
global economic recovery is stalling, funds that remain
“disciplined about value” are looking to other investments
such as water, he said. Almost 1 billion people, about one in
eight, lack access to clean water, according to  water.org , a
non-profit organization based in  Kansas City ,  Missouri .  Smart Grids  Frog is also studying investment in smart-grid technology,
which includes devices to curb power consumption and reduce
energy loss in electricity generation and distribution.  “We’re looking at smart grid constantly,” Omari said. “I
have a few things in the pipeline that are related to this.”  The European Union has more than 100 smart-grid projects
under way or completed, and 80 percent of homes will be equipped
with smart meters by 2020, according to London-based researcher
Bloomberg New Energy Finance. The U.S. plans to install smart
meters in about half of all homes by 2013, BNEF data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in  London  at 
 Klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  