-- 
White House Council Sets Meetings on Jobs in Oregon, Texas

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 
2011-08-18T19:33:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/white-house-council-sets-meetings-on-jobs-in-oregon-texas.html
The White House Council on Jobs and
Competitiveness is planning meetings in Oregon and  Texas  with
local business leaders to discuss ways to increase jobs and deal
with shortages in some areas, such as engineering.  Intel Corp. (INTC)  President and Chief Executive Officer Paul Otellini and Energy Secretary Steven Chu will lead a session
Aug. 31 at Portland State University in Oregon on reversing the
nation’s shortage of engineers. A lack of engineers threatens
U.S. leadership in innovation, the White House said in a
statement.  On Sept. 1 at South Methodist University in Dallas, members
of the council and Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood will
focus on infrastructure spending.  The stops are part of a series of regional listening
sessions hosted by the council, and come before President Barack Obama’s planned announcement of proposals to spur hiring and
make deeper cuts in the nation’s long-term deficit.  Along with Otellini and Chu, the  Oregon  session includes:
Darlene Miller, president and CEO of Permac Industries Inc.;
Gary May, dean of the College of Engineering at Georgia Tech in
Atlanta; Shankar Sastry, dean of the College of Engineering at
University of California, Berkeley; Renjeng Su, dean of the
College of Engineering at Portland State University; Leah
Jamieson, dean of the College of Engineering at Purdue
University in West Lafayette, Indiana; Guy Primus, chief
operating officer of Overbrook Entertainment; and Telle Whitney,
president and CEO of the Anita Borg Institute for Women &
Technology in Palo Alto, California.  The Texas session features Tom Donohue, president and CEO
of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce; U.S. chief technology officer
Aneesh Chopra; Lew Hay, chairman & CEO of NextEra Energy, Inc.;
Gary Kelly, chairman, president & CEO of Southwest Airlines Co;
Matthew Rose, chairman & CEO of BNSF Railway Co.; Richard Trumka, president of the AFL-CIO; Laura Tyson, professor at the
 University of California , Berkeley; Robert Wolf, chairman of UBS
Americas and president of UBS Investment Bank; David Cohen,
executive vice president of Comcast Corp; John Donovan, CTO of
AT&T Inc.; C. Michael Walton, professor at the University of
Texas; and John Young, president and CEO of Energy Future
Holdings Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Talev  in  Washington  at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 