-- 
Wind Cheaper Than Natural Gas, Hydro in Brazil Power Auction

-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 
2011-08-18T22:17:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/wind-beats-natural-gas-hydro-in-brazil-power-supply-bidding.html
Wind is becoming the cheapest source
of energy in  Brazil , beating  natural gas  and hydroelectric
power.  Developers of 44 wind farms in Brazil agreed to deliver
electricity to utilities for an average of 99.58 reais ($61.93)
a megawatt-hour in a government-organized auction, the national
energy agency Empresa de Pesquisa Energetica said yesterday in a
 statement . Two gas plants signed contracts for an average of
103.26 reais a megawatt-hour and a hydroelectric project for 102
reais.  The auction marks the first time that wind farms won on
price against conventional power plants in a head-to-head
contest in Brazil. The price makes it the most cost-effective
source of electricity in the country and is the cheapest
anywhere for wind, said Eduardo Tabbush, an analyst at Bloomberg
New Energy Finance’s London office.  “These are the lowest power-purchase agreements for  wind
energy  in the world,” he said today in an interview.  Prices below 100 reais a megawatt-hour would have been
“unthinkable until recently,” EPE president Mauricio Tolmasquim said today in a statement.  The costs promised by the wind-farm owners were 24 percent
lower than developers agreed to in a similar auction a year ago.  Lower Production Costs  Lower global demand for turbines following the 2008
financial crisis may have led manufacturers to cut prices,
allowing developers to deliver electricity at lower rates, Jorge
Trinkenreich, director of Rio de Janeiro-based consulting
company PSR Consultoria, said in an interview.  The auction, along with another completed today for back-up
grid capacity, will lead to the installation of 3,963 megawatts
of biomass, wind, gas and hydroelectric  power plants  worth 11.2
billion reais, according to EPE.  Over half of that will be wind farms, which currently
comprise less than one percent of Brazil’s grid capacity,
according to the country’s electricity regulator Agencia
Nacional de Energia Eletrica.  The strong real, which has risen 30 percent against the
 U.S. dollar  over the past 30 months, and more efficient wind
turbine designs have driven down the cost of producing wind
power, Monica Rodriguez de Souza, manager of thermal and
alternative power at Sao Paulo-based energy consulting company
Andrade Canellas Consultoria e Engenharia Ltda. in an interview.  While prices are declining, turbines still cost about a
third more in Brazil than in the rest of the world, largely
because of the country’s import taxes, Tabbush said.  Domestic Turbine Plants  Some of the biggest turbine makers, including Vestas Wind
Systems A/S of Denmark, Siemens AG of  Germany  and  General
Electric Co. (GE)  from the U.S., have set up factories in Brazil,
driving down prices there, he said.  Average international wind-turbine prices, which make up
about three-fourths of project costs, were 940,000 euros ($1.34
million) a megawatt in the first half of the year, down 7
percent from a year ago and 22 percent lower than 2008,
according to New Energy Finance.  Wind power is more expensive in other countries. Plants in
 Italy  are getting 145 euros for a megawatt-hour of electricity,
under a government incentive system for renewable energy,
Tabbush said.  Spain  offers wind farms 77 euros and France 82
euros, both through feed-in-tariffs.  ‘A Bit Worried’  Voltalia Energia do Brasil Ltda. signed contracts for five
wind farms for as low as 98.92 reais a megawatt-hour, the second
lowest rate, according to electricity trading board Camara de
Comercializacao de Energia Eletrica.  Robert Klein, director for the Rio de Janeiro-based wind-
power developer, said he didn’t expect prices to fall so much.
“Definitely, we are a bit worried about the prices,” he said
in an interview. “We will have to fight to make it.”  Even large utilities with low equity return requirements
may find it “very hard to build these projects,” Tabbush said.  Eletrosul Centrais Eletricas SA was awarded 21 contracts in
yesterday’s auction, the most of any wind developer, for 21 wind
farms with a combined capacity of 492 megawatts.  “We won a close race with an excellent rate of
return,” Eletrosul’s President Eurides Mescolotto said in a
 statement .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  