-- 
World’s Fastest Market Luring Hong Kong Exchanges to China

-- B y   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n
-- 
2011-08-19T09:42:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/world-s-fastest-equity-markets-lure-hong-kong-s-bourse-to-china-venture.html
Hong Kong  Exchanges & Clearing Ltd.
is closer to trading with investors in the world’s busiest
equity markets after starting joint venture talks with China’s
bourses as the country plans for more cross-border investment.  Hong Kong Exchanges, the No. 1 exchange operator by market
value, may develop indexes and derivatives with the Shanghai and
Shenzhen bourses, it said in a statement yesterday. China will
start an exchange-traded fund linked to Hong Kong stocks and
expand sales of yuan bonds in the city,  Li Keqiang , the front-
runner to replace  Wen Jiabao  as China’s premier in 2013, said at
an Aug. 17 economic forum in the former British colony.  Hong Kong Exchanges Chief Executive Officer Charles Li is
seeking more ties with the mainland as Beijing plans for
financial liberalization and promotes its currency in global
trade. While the equivalent of $17.2 billion of debt denominated
in China’s currency has been sold in the city this year, the
only initial public offering of shares listed in yuan raised
$1.6 billion.  “Any inflow from China will be huge to the Hong Kong
market,” said Cedric Ma, senior investment strategist at Convoy
Asset Management Ltd., which oversees the equivalent of about
$260 million in Hong Kong. “If you look at the Hong Kong
financial system, it’s going nowhere unless it’s serving part of
China and becoming a gateway, whether in the  bond market  or
stock market.”  Shrinking Economy  The city’s economy shrank last quarter for the first time
since 2009 as a worsening European debt crisis, accelerating
inflation in China and faltering U.S. recovery damped demand.
The Hang Seng Index and Shanghai Stock Exchange Composite Index
fell last week to levels 20 percent below their peaks, entering
so-called bear markets.  Asian stocks tumbled today, pushing the Hang Seng Index
down 3.1 percent to a fourth weekly loss. The Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index of Chinese companies listed in Hong Kong
slumped 4.1 percent to the lowest level since May 2009.  China, which restricts cross-border money flows, is
expanding programs that allow qualified foreign investors to buy
and sell shares in mainland markets and permit domestic
institutions to trade offshore. The country scrapped a plan in
2007 to allow citizens to buy Hong Kong stocks directly.  Turnover Velocity  The value of shares traded in Shenzhen, relative to market
value, averaged  344 percent  last year, more than any other
bourse in the world, according to data from the Paris-based
World Federation of Exchanges. So-called turnover velocity for
 Shanghai  was 179 percent, the data show.  That compares with 340 percent for Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.
and 130 percent for NYSE Euronext, the two biggest American
 stock exchanges . The U.S. equity market is the largest with its
shares totaling about $13.8 trillion, while China is second with
about $3.72 trillion and Hong Kong is ranked fifth at $2.35
trillion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “This is going in the right direction for both China and
Hong Kong -- for China to open itself, and also for Hong Kong to
get more business and money flow from mainland investors,” said
 Alex Au , the Hong Kong-based managing director of Richland
Capital Management Ltd., which oversees $300 million. “This has
been one of the major goals of Hong Kong Exchanges.”  Hong Kong ETFs  Hang Seng Indexes Co. is working with two fund management
companies to create funds tracking Hong Kong stocks that would
trade in China. The index provider is planning an exchange-
traded fund linked to the  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  and one following the
Hang Seng China Enterprises Index, Vincent Kwan, director and
general manager of Hang Seng Indexes, said by telephone today.  China-listed ETFs linked to Hong Kong stocks may be ready
to start in a few months, K.C. Chan, secretary for financial
services and the treasury, said in an interview today.  Hong Kong Exchanges’ Li wants to offer more securities
linked to the Chinese currency, such as stocks listed in both
Hong Kong dollars and yuan. The bourse reduced its lunch break
in March to align more closely with mainland markets and is
introducing measures to provide liquidity for shares denominated
in the Chinese currency.  The bourse is turning to indexes and derivatives after Hui
Xian Real Estate Investment Trust, the city’s only stock traded
in yuan, dropped 18 percent from its April 28 debut. The Hang
Seng Index has fallen 19 percent since then.  ‘New Growth Sources’  The appetite for bonds linked to the Chinese currency has
been greater. HSBC Holdings Plc, which is helping arrange
China’s sale of two-year bonds to individuals in Hong Kong, has
estimated that total issuance of so-called dim sum bonds could
reach 230 billion yuan this year.  “HKEx needs new sources of growth,” said Victoria Mio, a
 fund manager  at the Hong Kong division of Robeco, which oversees
$200 billion. “The derivative market in China is still at its
infancy stage and can certainly leverage HKEx’s expertise.”  Hong Kong trades more securitized equity derivatives than
any of the 21 global bourses  tracked  by the World Federation of
Exchanges, which doesn’t include China. About $533.9 billion in
contracts changed hands last year, compared with $354 billion
for  South Korea ’s exchange and $79.6 billion at Deutsche Boerse
AG, the data show.  China introduced short selling, index futures and  margin
trading  last year as part of efforts to increase the efficiency
of a stock market that had for its first two decades only
allowed investors to profit when share prices rose. The  China 
Financial Futures Exchange, established in 2006, started trading
contracts on the CSI 300 Index in April 2010, its only product.  About 153,400 futures contracts on the CSI 300 Index
changed hands on average in the past 30 days, compared with
91,700 for the Hang Seng Index, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “China will need to rely on Hong Kong for the products and
development, while Hong Kong will need the investor flow from
the mainland,” said  Dominic Chan , a Hong Kong-based analyst at
BNP Paribas SA, who covers Hong Kong Exchanges. “There may
still be competition among the three, but the scope for
cooperation will be much bigger.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Thomasson in Hong Kong at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  