-- 
Yankees Lose, Keep AL East Lead as Red Sox Falter; Rodriguez Out Tonight

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-08-18T04:55:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/yankees-lose-keep-al-east-lead-as-red-sox-falter-rodriguez-out-tonight.html
The  New York Yankees  held on to
first place in Major League Baseball’s American League East
after a 5-4 loss to the Kansas City Royals when the  Boston Red
Sox  were shut out 4-0 by the Tampa Bay Rays.  Curtis Granderson hit his 34th home run of the season last
night to give the Yankees a 1-0 lead in the first inning. He
then scored on Nick Swisher’s single in the third to make it 2-0.  Alex Gordon’s three-run homer and Billy Butler’s solo home
run in the third inning gave the Royals a 4-2 lead at Kauffman
Stadium at Kansas City, Missouri.  After Melky Cabrera scored when Eric Hosmer grounded into a
fielder’s choice for the Royals’ final run in the fifth inning,
Russell Martin notched his 13th home run of the year in the
sixth and Derek Jeter scored on Cano’s sacrifice fly in the
ninth.  At Fenway Park in  Boston , B.J. Upton and Evan Longoria hit
home runs as the Rays beat the  Red Sox . It was Boston’s second
straight loss to Tampa Bay and its fourth defeat in five games.
The Red Sox begin a four-game series in Kansas City tonight
before heading to  Texas  for four more against the Rangers.  The Yankees and the Red Sox have been in a season-long
tussle for first place in the AL East.  New York  is 74-47, a
half-game ahead of the Red Sox (74-48). The Rays are third, 8
1/2 games behind New York.  Rodriguez Isn’t Ready  Alex Rodriguez  said he won’t be ready for the first of four
games tonight against the Minnesota Twins in Minneapolis.  Rodriguez has been playing rehabilitation games since
undergoing surgery last month for a torn meniscus in his right
knee.  The Yankees third baseman went 1-for-2 with a run batted in
and an error last night with Triple-A Scranton/Wilkes-Barre.  Yankees Manager  Joe Girardi  said Rodriguez may need more
time before being activated.  “A couple of days, if you rush it, could cost you a couple
of weeks if you end up hurting something else,” Girardi said in
comments on the Yankees’ website last night. “We may just have
him go through some things for a couple of days, then wait a
couple of days to activate him.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  