-- 
Yield Curve Signals Japan-Style Slump in U.S., MKM’s Darda Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   J o e   R a g a z z o   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-08-18T18:34:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/yield-curve-signals-japan-style-slump-in-u-s-mkm-s-darda-says-tom-keene.html
The Treasury yield curve’s
flattening indicates the U.S. is on the cusp of a recession
similar to what afflicted  Japan  in the late 1990s, according to
MKM Partners LLC’s Michael Darda.  The extra yield investors get to hold U.S. 10-year notes
instead of two-year debt shrank today to 1.91 percentage points,
the narrowest since April 2009. Japan slipped into a recession
during the second half of 1997, when the spread between its
10- and two-year government bonds collapsed below 1.75
percentage points, according to Darda, chief economist at the
research and trading firm, during a radio interview on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt.  “This Treasury market looks like Japan, and it is not a
bullish signal in any way, and the stock market’s obviously
confirming that,” said Darda, 37, based in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . “At least for now this Treasury market is saying
deflationary recession is the real risk.”  U.S. government debt yields are poised to converge with
Japan’s for the first time in almost two decades. The extra
yield investors get to hold two-year American notes instead of
Japanese debt has shrunk to 0.04 percentage point, the narrowest
since the spread contracted two days ago to a record low 0.03
percentage point, the lowest on a closing basis in data
beginning in 1992.   Yields on U.S. 10-year notes fell today below 2 percent for
the first time on the prospects of a slowing global economy,
touching 1.97 percent. Two-year note yields were unchanged at
0.19 percent. Japan’s two-year yield slid to 0.15 percent, while
its 10-year yield fell to 1 percent.  U.S. Inflation  Consumer prices excluding food and energy increased 0.2
percent last month, the lowest since April, and first-time
jobless claims climbed last week the most in a month, the Labor
Department reported.  The Philadelphia Fed’s general economic index indicated
manufacturing in eastern  Pennsylvania , southern  New Jersey  and
 Delaware  unexpectedly contracted in August by the most in more
than two years.  “Some people associate low and falling rates with easy
money,” Darda said. “This collapse in Treasury yields, in my
view, is signaling much weaker nominal growth expectations
ahead.”  To contact the reporters for this story:
Joe Ragazzo in New York at 
 jragazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  