-- 
Zynga, Abercrombie & Fitch, Dollywood, N.Y. Times: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-08-18T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-18/zynga-abercrombie-fitch-dollywood-n-y-times-intellectual-property.html
Zynga Inc., the largest developer of
games for Facebook Inc.’s social network, was sued by Agincourt
Gaming LLC for infringing two patents covering features of
online games including “FarmVille” and “Mafia Wars.”  Zynga, which is preparing for an initial public offering,
has a history of copying rather than devising its own games,
Susman Godfrey LLP, the  law firm  representing Agincourt, said
yesterday in a statement.  In  a September 2010 story in the San Francisco Weekly ,
Zynga is characterized as “FarmVillains” and Zynga founder
Marck Pincus is said to have told an employee “You’re not
smarter than your competitor. Just copy what they do and do it
until you get their numbers.”  In its lawsuit, filed in federal court in Wilmington,
 Delaware , Agincourt seeks unspecified damages and a court order
barring the conduct. In dispute are patents 6,758,755, issued in
July 2004; and 6,306,035, issued in October 2001.  The patents cover processes for credit-based online gaming
and a prize-redemption system based on the outcome of game play,
according to Dallas-based Agincourt’s complaint.  “Agincourt’s patents cover the most lucrative aspects of
online social gaming -- including those comprising the bulk of
Zynga’s revenues -- as they contain the crucial ‘link’ that
allows for global, interactive prize redemption over the
Internet,” Bill Carmody, a senior partner at Susman Godfrey,
said in the statement.  “We’re not commenting” on the lawsuit, Adam Isserlis, a
spokesman for San Francisco-based Zynga, said in an e-mailed
statement.  The infringing Zynga games also include FishVille,
CafeWorld, CityVille, Vampire Wars, PetVille, YoVille,
FrontierVille, Treasure Isle, Empires & Allies and Poker,
according to the complaint.  The suit is at least the second against Zynga in less than
a month. Segan LLC, based in Long Island City, New York, sued
July 29 in Delaware federal court alleging patent infringement.  Founded in 2007, Zynga turned profitable last year with net
income of $90.6 million. The company, which filed July 1 to
raise $1 billion in an IPO, owns four of the most popular
applications on Facebook.  Zynga said in July that it has more than 232 million
monthly active users, making it the biggest developer of social
games.  The case is Agincourt Gaming LLC v. Zynga Inc., 11-00720,
U.S. District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Abercrombie Will Pay ‘The Situation’ to Take Off Its Clothes  Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (ANF) , the retailer whose 119-year-old
brand was once associated with high-end sporting goods, has
asked a character on MTV’s  Jersey Shore  reality show to quit
wearing its clothing.  According to an Aug. 16  statement,  the New Albany, Ohio-
based company has offered  Michael “the Situation” Sorrentino 
compensation to shed his Abercrombies. The association with
Sorrentino “is contrary to the aspirational nature of our brand
and may be distressing to many of our fans,” the company said
in its statement.  Although the amount of compensation offered wasn’t
disclosed, Abercrombie said it was a “substantial payment.”
The company has made similar offers to others in the cast and
said it is “urgently awaiting a response.”  “Jersey Shore” focuses on the activities of eight young
people largely of Italian-American ethnicity, who spend most of
their time focused on doing laundry, working out, getting tans
and drinking. The show has been criticized for its exaggerated
portrayal of the so-called  Guido Italian-American culture , and
in May, New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  said it should leave
his state.  Abercrombie, which is known for its edgy ads often
featuring shirtless men, was criticized earlier this year for
offering a padded bikini top for girls ages 7-14,  according to 
the Atlanta Journal Constitution.  In March 2008, Abercrombie Chief Financial Officer Michael
Kramer told Bloomberg “we’re always pushing the envelope with
regards to what we call that casual American sexuality.”  Dollywood Sues Pigeon Forge Businesses for Infringing Trademarks  The  Dollywood Co. , which is associated with country singer
Dolly  Parton , sued three  Tennessee  businesses for trademark
infringement.  According to the complaint filed Aug. 12 in Knoxville,
Tennessee, three companies based in that state’s town of Pigeon
Forge are accused of using the Dollywood marks to promote their
tourism-related businesses.  Dollywood, an amusement park complex in Pigeon Forge,
Tennessee, that became associated with Parton in 1986, has
multiple registrations for the term with the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office, according to court papers. The company objects
to the use of its marks by Guesthouse International Inn,
Rivergate Inn and Winter Hospitality.  The amusement park company claims it’s harmed and the
public is confused by the three companies’ actions, and asked
the court to bar them from any use of the Dollywood or Dolly
trademarks. Additionally, it seeks awards of profits the
companies derived from their alleged infringement, and asked to
be given any infringing domain names.  Dollywood also asked for money damages, destruction of all
infringing promotional materials, and for awards of attorney
fees and litigation costs.  The company is represented by Mark S. Graham and  Michael J.
Bradford  of  Luedeka, Neely & Graham PC  of Knoxville.  The case is Dollywood Co. v. Ashin and Rupal Shah, 3:11-cv-
00378, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Tennessee
(Knoxville).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Freelance Writers, Publishers Accord Tossed by Appeals Court  A federal appeals court rejected a settlement between
publishers, including  New York  Times Co., and freelance writers
who accused the companies of copyright infringement.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in New York vacated a lower court
order approving the agreement, finding a group of freelance
authors with certain claims weren’t adequately represented,
according to a decision filed yesterday.  “We conclude that the district court abused its discretion
in certifying the class and approving the settlement, because
the named plaintiffs failed to adequately represent the
interests of all class members,” the appeals panel said.  The writers claimed in a class-action, or group, lawsuit
that publishers violated their copyrights by electronically
reproducing and posting their work in databases. A judge in 2005
approved the settlement, which was valued at as much as
$18 million for the writers.  Danielle Rhoades Ha, a spokeswoman for  New York Times Co. (NYT) ,
didn’t immediately comment on the appeals court ruling. Patrick
Kerr, a spokesman for Reed Elsevier Inc., another publisher in
the case, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment.  The appeals court case is In re Literary Works In
Electronic Databases Copyright Litigation, 05-5943, 2nd U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals ( Manhattan ).  Village People Member Sued by Scorpio Over Claims to Copyrights  Victor Willis , one of the members of the 1970s disco group
the Village People, was sued by a French music publisher over
his attempt to gain control of the copyrights for the songs the
group performed, including the hit Y.M.C.A.  According to the complaint filed July 14 in federal court
in  San Diego , Paris-based Scorpio and its New York affiliate,
Can’t Stop Productions Inc., hired Willis in the late 1970s to
create new English lyrics for some French songs. In January,
Willis filed papers asking that the rights of others to these
songs, which were performed by the Village People, be
terminated.  He made the request under a provision of U.S. copyright law
that allows musicians and writers to regain control of their
work.  Scorpio says Wills has “no legitimate right” to see
termination of its ownership of the music copyright, and that
the compositions fell under copyright law’s “work for hire”
section.  The company asked the court to order Willis to stop making
claims to the copyright, or, if he is found to have some
legitimate claims, to limit those to the same percentage of
ownership for which he presently receives as compensation for
their use. Scorpio also seeks awards of attorney fees and
litigation costs.  Scorpio is represented by Robert S. Besser of the Law
Offices of Robert S. Besser in  Santa Monica ,  California .  The case is Scorpio Music SA v. Willis, 3:11-cv-01557-BTM-
RBB, U.S. District Court, Southern District of California (San
Diego).  Music Publishing Group Ends YouTube Infringement Suit Appeal  An association of music publishers dropped its appeal of a
court ruling that found  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube didn’t infringe
copyrights when it displayed videos without authorization. An
agreement was made with the website.  The resolution of the suit will allow music publishers to
form licensing agreements with YouTube and receive royalties,
the National Music Publishers Association said in a statement.  “We are pleased to have resolved NMPA’s litigation claims
and to work with YouTube in providing a new licensing
opportunity for songwriters and publishers,” David Israelite,
the chief executive of the Washington-based trade group, said in
the statement.  The NMPA was a plaintiff in a companion suit to one filed
in 2007 by Viacom Inc., which charged that YouTube violated
copyrights by allowing users to upload videos of music, TV shows
and sports events without permission. A district court ruled
last year that YouTube wasn’t liable for infringement because it
removed unauthorized videos when informed about them.  The agreement “offers more choice for rights holders in
how they manage use of their songs,”  YouTube  said in a blog
posting on its site yesterday. “While this deal is only with
publishers, it will also benefit recording artists and record
labels.”  The appeal of the district court ruling by New York-based
Viacom, which owns  MTV Networks  and  Comedy Central , remains in
effect.  The NMPA, along with YouTube and music publishers including
the Rodgers & Hammerstein Organization, agreed to “voluntary
dismissal” of the appeal, according to a filing yesterday in
appeals court in Manhattan.  The music publishing appeal is The Football Association
Premier League Ltd. v. YouTube Inc., 10-3342, 2nd U.S. Circuit
Court of Appeals (New York). The Viacom appeal is Viacom v.
YouTube, 10-03270, 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (New York).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets /Industrial Espionage  Gundlach Says He, TCW Managers Opposed Stern’s 2009 Return  DoubleLine Capital LP’s  Jeffrey Gundlach  told a jury he and
other group managers at TCW Group Inc. opposed the appointment
of Marc Stern as chief executive officer in June of 2009, six
months before Gundlach was fired.  Gundlach, testifying for a third day in the trade secrets
trial that pits him and three other former TCW employees against
the asset-management firm, said he told Stern, who had stepped
down as the company’s president in 2005, and TCW founder Robert
Day that they couldn’t just “breeze” back in, after he and the
other managers had kept TCW going through the financial crisis.  Mark Attanasio, who co-ran TCW’s leveraged finance group
that separated from the firm last year, was “even more negative
than me” about the appointment, Gundlach said. Five TCW
managers said in a letter to  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA, TCW’s parent
company, that bringing an executive back from retirement would
be a “major step backward,” Gundlach testified.  Los Angeles-based TCW fired Gundlach, 51, in December 2009
and sued him the following month after more than half of its
fixed-income professionals joined his new firm. TCW seeks $375
million in damages, claiming Gundlach stole its trade secrets,
including client portfolio data, to start DoubleLine.  Gundlach, who had worked at TCW for 25 years and who was
named Morningstar’s Fixed Income Manager of the Year in 2006,
countersued, saying TCW fired him to avoid having to pay
management and performance fees for the distressed-asset funds
his group managed and that went “through the roof.” Gundlach
seeks about $500 million.  TCW alleges that Gundlach had become increasingly difficult
to work with and was openly hostile to Stern. The company says
it put Gundlach on leave Dec. 4, 2009, the day it announced that
it had acquired Metropolitan West Asset Management LLC to manage
the fixed-income portfolios of Gundlach’s group. DoubleLine
contends Gundlach was fired Dec. 4, not just put on leave.  Gundlach said under cross-examination from DoubleLine
lawyer Mark Helm that at the time of a Sept. 3, 2009, meeting
with Stern, when he thought he was about to get fired, he told
members of his mortgage-backed securities group, to make copies
of files that might be useful if he were fired, including client
holdings and contact information.  Gundlach, whose group managed more than half of TCW’s $110
billion assets under management, testified that he immediately
reversed himself as he realized that they could get the
information from the clients directly.  The  money manager , whose new firm has about $14 billion
under management, testified earlier yesterday that he was
“furious” when he learned an employee had failed to
immediately turn over a device belonging to TCW in violation of
DoubleLine’s policy to return all TCW devices and information.  TCW argues that Gundlach wouldn’t have been able to get
DoubleLine started within weeks after he was fired if he hadn’t
had access to TCW trade secrets and confidential information.  Gundlach said that from when DoubleLine started on Dec. 14,
2009, the policy had been not to use any TCW files they still
had and to return them to TCW.  The case is Trust Co. of the West v. Gundlach, BC429385,
California Superior Court, Los Angeles County.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 