-- L.A. Airport Shooting Suspect Charged by U.S. in Death
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-11-03T03:32:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-03/l-a-airport-shooting-suspect-charged-by-u-s-in-death.html
The suspect in the Nov. 1 shooting
death of a  Transportation Security Administration  officer at  Los
Angeles  International Airport was charged with murder by federal
prosecutors in a potential capital case.  Paul Ciancia, 23, was accused of killing a federal officer
on duty and of using a firearm to perform an act of violence at
an international airport, according to a criminal complaint
filed yesterday in Los Angeles federal court. If convicted, he
could face the death penalty.  Ciancia shot a TSA officer with a Smith & Wesson assault
rifle at point-blank range, according to the affidavit filed in
support of the charges. He started to go up an escalator, and
when he saw that the wounded officer was moving, returned and
shot the officer again, killing him, according to prosecutors.  The gunman allegedly shot and wounded two other TSA
employees and a civilian passenger before he was shot by airport
police, according the affidavit. Ciancia carried a note that
said he had made “the conscious decision to try to kill” and
that he wanted instill fear in the “traitorous minds” of TSA
employees, according to the affidavit.  Hospitalized  Ciancia is hospitalized and unresponsive so police haven’t
been able to interview him, David L. Bowdich, the FBI special
agent in charge, said at a press conference yesterday. It’s
unclear when he will make his first court appearance.  The shooting rampage halted flights in and out of the Los
Angeles airport, the fifth-busiest in the U.S. by domestic
passengers, stranding thousands and delaying flights across the
U.S. The biggest carriers are United Continental Holdings Inc.’s
United Airlines, AMR Corp.’s American Airlines, Southwest
Airlines Co. and Delta Air Lines Inc.  As many as 866 flights, including 40 yesterday, were
canceled, delayed or rerouted.  Thom Mrozek, a spokesman for the U.S. attorney's office in 
Los Angeles, didn't immediately return a call outside regular 
business hour inquiring whether Ciancia has an attorney.  The case is U.S. v. Paul Ciancia, U.S. District Court,
Central District of  California  (Los Angeles.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Federal court in Los Angeles at  epettersson@bloomberg.net  