-- Aussie to Remain Strong Until U.S. Fed Tapers, ANZ Bank CEO Says
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-11-03T13:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-03/aussie-to-remain-strong-until-u-s-fed-tapers-anz-bank-ceo-says.html
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. (ANZ)  Chief Executive Officer  Michael Smith  said he expects the
Australian dollar to maintain its strength as long as the U.S.
 Federal Reserve  keeps up its bond-buying program.  “It’s unlikely we’ll see a huge reduction or a major
reduction in the Aussie dollar’s strength until there is a
tapering in the U.S.,” Smith said in an interview yesterday on
the Australian Broadcasting Corp.’s Inside Business program.
“As the  U.S. dollar  strengthens, we’ll start to see the Aussie
come off a bit.”  The Federal Reserve decided last week it would press on
with $85 billion in monthly bond purchases, saying that it needs
to see more evidence the  U.S. economy  will continue to improve.
The central bank also said the economy is showing signs of
“underlying strength.”  While the Australian dollar fell to a three-year low of
88.48 U.S. cents on Aug. 5 amid speculation the Fed would begin
to taper bond purchases by year end, that sentiment reversed as
a government shutdown in the U.S. slowed growth, prompting the
Aussie to touch an almost five-month high of 97.58 on Oct. 23.
The Aussie closed at 94.38 U.S. cents on Nov. 1.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  said last
week the Aussie dollar “at some point in the future” will be
“materially lower.”  Credit Standards  Tapering of the Fed’s record stimulus will begin in March,
based on the median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg
survey.  “I don’t think the tapering will happen until well into
next year,” Smith said. “It will create some volatility. There
will be adjustment.”  ANZ, the country’s third-largest lender by market value,
has maintained its credit standards, Smith said. Charges for bad
debts in the last year fell 5 percent to A$1.2 billion from a
year ago and newly impaired assets in the year dropped 22
percent, ANZ said Oct. 29.  “We haven’t lowered our standards,” Smith said. “In
fact, I think over the last few years we’ve maintained credit
standards very well.”  In a separate interview with the Financial Review Sunday
television program that was broadcast yesterday, Smith said
Australia should encourage more investment from overseas.  “There has been a lot of noise about China and
Indonesia,” he said. “The fact is, we should be welcoming
inward investment because it goes where it is welcome. At the
end of the day we need it. We can’t realize our potential unless
we have it.”  Warrnambool, GrainCorp   Saputo Inc. (SAP) , Canada’s largest dairy processor, would need
clearance from Australia’s Foreign Investment Review Board if it
is the successful bidder for Warrnambool Cheese & Butter Factory
Co. Japan’s Kirin Holdings Co. last week bought about 10 percent
of Warrnambool, and local company Bega Cheese Ltd. has received
an OK from the country’s competition regulator for its bid.  Decatur, Illinois-based Archer-Daniels-Midland Co.’s
planned purchase of Australian crop handler  GrainCorp Ltd. (GNC)  would
be a loss for the South Pacific country, Deputy Prime Minister
Warren Truss told the ABC in an interview yesterday. It’s
important for Australia to “maintain control of its own  food
security ,” Truss said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  