-- Aussie Dollar, Yields Advance After Retail Sales Beat Estimates
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-11-04T06:04:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-03/aussie-dollar-yields-advance-before-retail-sales-rba-meeting.html
The Aussie dollar headed for its
biggest jump in two weeks after data showed retail sales
advanced at the fastest pace in seven months, adding to
prospects the Reserve Bank won’t cut  interest rates  tomorrow.  Government bond yields reached 2 1/2-week highs and the
currency strengthened versus all 16 major peers as  interest-rate
swaps  data show traders are almost certain Governor  Glenn
Stevens  and his board will keep  borrowing costs  unchanged
through the end of the year.  New Zealand ’s currency remained
little changed following a two-week loss after the Treasury said
the nation’s central bank may have more flexibility on the
timing of interest-rate increases.  “Data seem to be turning up recently for the Australian
dollar, and that has been a positive,” said Divya Devesh, a
foreign-exchange analyst in Singapore at Standard Chartered Plc.
“We don’t expect the RBA to cut this year.”  Australia ’s currency gained 0.5 percent to 94.88 U.S. cents
at 5:02 p.m. in Sydney, set for its biggest climb since Oct. 22.
New Zealand’s dollar was at 82.72 U.S. cents after declining 2.8
percent in the previous two weeks.  The yield on Australian debt due in a decade jumped as much
as nine basis points to 4.16 percent, the highest since Oct. 17.
Three-year  government bonds  yielded as much as 3.16 percent, the
highest in 2 1/2 weeks.  Australia’s  retail sales  rose 0.8 percent in September, the
biggest gain since February, the statistics bureau said.
Economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  predicted a 0.4 percent
increase.  Near Bottom  “From an interest-rate perspective domestically, there’s a
growing view that we have hit the bottom,” said Hans Kunnen, a
senior economist at St. George Bank Ltd. in Sydney. “We think
the Aussie remains at these levels unless expectations somewhere
are totally knocked off the track.”  Traders see a 96 percent chance RBA officials will keep the
cash rate at a record-low 2.5 percent when they gather tomorrow,
swaps data compiled by Bloomberg show. There’s a 88 percent
possibility policy makers will leave the benchmark unchanged at
their Dec. 3 meeting, according to the contracts.  The  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand’s restrictions on housing
loans “appear to be having the intended effect of damping
growth in mortgage finance,” the Treasury said in its monthly
report on economic indicators published today. “If these
initial impressions are borne out in subsequent data releases,
the Reserve Bank may have more flexibility as to when and how
quickly it raises interest rates.”  There are 49 percent odds the RBNZ will raise its
benchmark, currently at an all-time low of 2.5 percent, to 2.75
percent or higher by March, according to Bloomberg-compiled
data. That’s down from a 55 percent chance a month ago.  New Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to
receive floating rates, rose four basis points to 3.46 percent,
set for the highest close since Oct. 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in  Singapore  at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  