-- Commodity Index Drops as Treasuries Advance With S&P 500
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2013-11-04T21:24:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-03/australian-futures-climb-after-u-s-jump-yen-holds-drop.html
Industrial metals led a gauge of
commodities to a four-month low, while the dollar weakened and
Treasuries rose, as investors assessed economic data for clues
to future policy moves from central banks. U.S. shares rose a
second day and European stocks closed at a five-year high.  The  S&P GSCI Index (SPGSCI)  of 24 commodities lost 0.3 percent to
610.66 by 4:10 p.m. in New York as copper slid 1.3 percent and
natural gas sank 1.9 percent. The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, a
gauge of the currency against 10 major peers, fell 0.3 percent
after climbing for six straight days in its longest rally since
May. Ten-year Treasury yields decreased two basis points to 2.60
percent. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  rose 0.4 percent, while
the Stoxx Europe 600 Index climbed 0.3 percent.  The euro rebounded from a six-week low versus the dollar as
expanding manufacturing in the region fueled speculation the
 European Central Bank  won’t cut  interest rates  this week. U.S.
factory orders grew 1.7 percent in September. Federal Reserve
Bank of Dallas President  Richard Fisher  said the U.S. should
resume normal monetary policy as soon as possible, while Fed
Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard  said they may keep the
current pace of stimulus even if the job market improves.  “Tapering hasn’t happened yet, but it’s certainly hanging
out there and is likely to happen probably sometime in the first
quarter of next year,”  Peter Jankovskis , who helps oversee $3.5
billion as co-chief investment officer of Lisle, Illinois-based
Oakbrook Investments LLC, said in a phone interview. “That’s a
big factor weighing on the commodity markets. As they ease out
of that program, the economy will have to stand on its own two
feet, and that’s going to take some time.”  Commodity Slump  Eighteen of the 24 commodities tracked by the S&P GSCI
gauge retreated. Copper declined for a third day, sliding to
$7,149 a metric ton, and lead dropped 1.3 percent. West Texas
Intermediate oil settled little changed at $94.62 a barrel. U.S.
natural gas dropped as much as 3.1 percent to $3.406 per million
British thermal units, the lowest price since Sept. 26, on
forecasts for moderate November temperatures that would limit
demand for the heating fuel.  The dollar weakened against 13 of 16 major peers, losing
the most against the Swedish krona, South African rand, Mexican
peso and Australian dollar. The Aussie advanced 0.8 percent to
95.11 U.S. cents.  The euro appreciated 0.2 percent to $1.3515 after earlier
touching the weakest level since Sept. 18. German 10-year yields
were down 1.5 basis points, or 0.015 percentage point, at 1.68
percent.  ECB Outlook  Bank of America Corp., Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and
UBS AG predict the European Central Bank will cut its main
refinancing rate to 0.25 percent Nov. 7. BNP Paribas SA, Societe
Generale SA, JPMorgan Chase & Co., ABN Amro Bank NV, Nomura
Holdings Inc. and Scotiabank predict a reduction in December,
when the ECB will publish new economic projections.  “In the short term, if we don’t get a decision from the
ECB to cut rates, we’ll basically pull a bit higher,”  Sebastien Galy , a senior foreign-exchange strategist at Societe Generale
SA in New York, said by phone, referring to the euro. “The ECB
may be signaling a dovish message but not cutting rates at this
meeting, but maybe at the next.”  Among U.S. stocks moving today,  Kellogg Co. (K)  added 0.7
percent after announcing it will reduce its global workforce by
seven percent as part of a four-year cost-saving plan. U.S.
Steel Corp. rose 4.4 percent and AK Steel Holding Corp. rallied
8.7 percent as  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  raised its ratings on
the companies. BlackBerry Ltd. tumbled 16 percent as Fairfax
Financial Holdings Ltd. walked away from a $4.7 billion takeover
plan.  Twitter IPO  Twitter Inc. will probably price its initial public
offering above an increased range announced earlier in the day,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter who asked
not to be named because the information is private.  The technology company boosted its asking price to $23 to
$25 a share today, from a range of $17 to $20. The IPO is
already several times oversubscribed at $25, said the people.  The  S&P 500  has risen for four straight weeks, the longest
stretch of gains since July. Of the 373  index members  that have
reported so far this earnings season, 76 percent beat profit
estimates while 54 percent exceeded sales projections, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  fell about 1.8 percent in extended
trading after reporting lower earnings-per-share than analysts
estimated after markets in New York closed.  ‘Least Resistance’  “The path of least resistance continues to be up,” James Dunigan, who helps oversee $118 billion as chief investment
officer in Philadelphia at PNC Wealth Management, said by phone.
“As you get into year-end portfolio adjustments, playing on
that momentum we’ll likely see the market continue to do well
here as opposed to selling off. I think if there are any sort of
corrections they’ll be short lived in this environment.”  The S&P 500 has advanced 24 percent in 2013, poised for its
best yearly rally in a decade, and is up more than 161 percent
from the bear-market low reached in 2009. The benchmark index
for U.S. stocks traded at about 16.8 times member company
reported earnings at its last record reached Oct. 29, the
highest valuation in more than three years.  The broadest equity rally on record will pick up speed
through year end and lift the S&P 500 to the biggest annual
increase in 16 years, if history is any guide. Shares have risen
in the final two months of the year 82 percent of the time since
1928 when the gauge rose at least 10 percent through October,
data compiled by S&P and Bloomberg show.  U.S. Data  Government data Nov. 7 is forecast by economists to show
the  U.S. economy  grew at a 2 percent annualized rate in the
third quarter, compared with a 2.5 percent increase in the
previous three months. Economists predict a report the next day
will show payrolls climbed by 120,000 in October and the
 unemployment rate  increased to 7.3 percent from 7.2 percent in
the previous month, according to a separate survey.  “The U.S. policy outlook is clouded,” Kit Juckes, global
strategist at Societe Generale SA in London, wrote in an e-mailed report. “The data will decide what happens next, which
puts the focus on third-quarter GDP and October payrolls at the
end of the week.”  The Stoxx 600 rose above its highest closing level since
May 2008.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  advanced 2.3 percent in London as
Europe’s largest bank said third-quarter pretax profit rose 30
percent. PostNL NV surged 7.8 percent after the Dutch postal
operator raised its income guidance.  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) 
tumbled 13 percent, dragging travel shares lower, after the
budget airline cut its profit  forecast .  Emerging Markets  Thailand’s SET Index fell 2.9 percent, the  most  since Sept.
23, and the baht weakened against all 16 major peers. The
opposition Democrat party is leading a street rally in Bangkok
to demonstrate against the government’s plan to pass a blanket
amnesty bill for political crimes that occurred after the 2006
military coup. The party claims the law would annul legal cases
against former Prime Minister  Thaksin Shinawatra .  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index fell a third day, losing
0.1 percent. South Korea’s Kospi Index slipped 0.7 percent as
Woori Finance Holdings Co., the nation’s largest financial firm
by assets, recorded a jump in bad loans. The Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index of mainland Chinese shares in  Hong Kong 
advanced less than 0.1 percent and almost two stocks gained for
every one that declined in Shanghai. A government report showed
service industries expanded at a faster pace in October.  Brazil’s  Ibovespa (IBOV)  climbed 0.8 percent, rising the most
since Oct. 28 as mining company Vale SA rallied amid signs the
economic recovery is gaining traction in China, the company’s
top export market. Markets in Russia, Japan and India were
closed for holidays.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  