-- Asian Stocks Fall After Fisher Speech on Fed Policy
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h   a n d   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2013-11-04T08:34:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-03/australia-stocks-rise-first-day-in-three-on-china-data.html
Asian  stocks  fell after Federal
Reserve Bank of Dallas President Richard Fisher said the U.S.
central bank should end its record stimulus as soon as possible.  South Korean financial companies including Shinhan
Financial Group Co., Mirae Asset Securities Co. and Hana
Financial Group Inc. dropped more than 3 percent.  Coca-Cola
Amatil Ltd. (CCL) ,  Australia ’s largest listed drinks company, slumped
4.7 percent after forecasting 2013 earnings will decline. MStar
Semiconductor Inc., an electronics component maker, gained 7
percent to close at a record in Taipei.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index  fell 0.3
percent to 478.22 as of 4:10 p.m. in Hong Kong, after rising as
much as 0.2 percent. About twice as many stocks declined as
gained on the index. Japanese markets are closed today.  “It’s all about the Fisher speech,” Chris Weston, chief
market strategist at brokerage IG Ltd. in  Melbourne , said by
phone. “We’re starting to see a slight change in rhetoric from
the Fed, more and more people are highlighting the cost of
quantitative easing. The Fed rhetoric in the last few weeks has
certainly been more hawkish than the markets were expecting.”  Fisher, speaking in Sydney, said: “At the earliest
possible moment we need to focus on transitioning back to having
an interest-rate-driven monetary policy.”  Last week’s advance on the MSCI Asia Pacific excluding
Japan Index pushed valuations on the measure to 13.2 times
 estimated earnings , up from a multiple of 12.2 at the end of
August, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China Manufacturing  Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  slipped 0.4 percent.
 Singapore ’s Straits Times Index was little changed and  Taiwan ’s
 Taiex Index  retreated 0.4 percent. Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI) 
slipped 0.3 percent after rising as much as 0.4 percent and
 China ’s Shanghai Composite Index was little changed.  China’s Communist Party leaders will enter a policy-making
summit this week, with services and manufacturing surveys
showing the economy is strengthening.  A non-manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index rose to the
highest level this year in October, a government report showed
yesterday. The increase follows faster-than-estimated growth in
two manufacturing indexes last week.  New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index fell 0.1 percent. South Korea’s
 Kospi index  dropped 0.7 percent.  “The Kospi is being driven down by foreigners who are net
selling South Korean stocks after the opening of the market
today,” Heo Pil Seok, chief executive officer at Midas
International Asset Management Ltd., which oversees about $6.4
billion, said by phone in  Seoul  today. “The lower-than-estimated third-quarter profits at Korean companies is impacting
the market.”  Woori Profit  South Korean financial companies declined after Woori
Finance Holdings Co., the nation’s largest financial group by
assets, reported earnings that missed estimates.  Woori’s third-quarter profit dropped 84 percent from a year
earlier to 86.4 billion won ($81 million), the company reported
on Nov. 1 after the market closed, missing the 315.5 billion-won
average estimate of 21 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Woori
shares fell 1.2 percent to 12,200 won.  Shinhan Financial dropped 3.5 percent to 45,150 won. Hana
Financial declined 3.1 percent to 39,200 won, while Mirae Asset
slumped 4.2 percent to 33,900 won.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.2
percent today. The equities benchmark rose 0.1 percent last week
after completing its second straight monthly gain, adding 4.5
percent in October. Of the index members that have  reported 
earnings this season, 75 percent have posted higher profit than
analysts estimated, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Coca-Cola Amatil  Coca-Cola Amatil lost 4.7 percent to A$12.28 after
forecasting that its earnings before interest and tax will
decline 5 percent to 7 percent this year from the prior 12
months.  Shunfeng Photovoltaic International Ltd., a maker of solar
cells, surged 19 percent to HK$6.36 in Hong Kong, a record
close, after announcing it would acquire Wuxi Suntech Power Co.  MStar Semiconductor gained 7 percent to NT$329 in Taipei,
closing at an all-time high after reporting its third-quarter
profit increased 67 percent from a year earlier.  David Jones Ltd. (DJS)  climbed 4.5 percent to A$3.03 in Sydney
after brokers from Credit Suisse Group AG to Deutsche Bank AG
upgraded recommendations on the retailer’s shares.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net ;
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  