-- Cheaper Chickens Seen in Record Corn Cutting Costs: Commodities
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l   a n d   D a l t o n   B a r k e r
-- 2013-11-04T21:17:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-03/cheaper-chickens-seen-in-record-corn-cutting-costs-commodities.html
The biggest-ever U.S. corn harvest is
spurring poultry farms to expand chicken production, sending
domestic supplies of the meat to a record and cutting costs for
buyers from  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST)  to  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)   Corn fell 50 percent from its peak during last year’s U.S.
drought, boosting profit for  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN)  and other poultry
producers and expanding supplies of broiler meat the government
says will reach a record this year and next. Wholesale  prices 
will drop 7.1 percent to 92 cents a pound in 2014, according to
the median of seven analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Chicken companies increased egg production in six of the
first seven months this year, government data show. Processors
are earning 5 cents a pound compared with losses of 4 cents to 5
cents a year earlier, the  National Chicken Council  said. More
birds mean lower costs for Costco and McDonald’s, and expanding
supply may help extend the drop in global food costs that the
 United Nations  says reached a three-year low in September.  “We’re seeing relief with the improved crop this year,”
said Michael Helgeson, the chief executive officer of St. Cloud,
Minnesota-based  GNP Co. , founded by his grandfather in 1926. GNP
uses 9 million bushels (228,600 metric tons) of corn a year, a
major expense in raising more than 104 million birds, he said.  The wholesale price for U.S. broilers, or young chickens
suitable for cooking, will average 98 cents to $1 a pound this
year, as much as 15 percent higher than in 2012, the government
estimates. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities is
down 5.6 percent this year, led by a 39 percent drop in corn.  Egg Laying  There was an average of 345.5 million egg-laying hens in
September, 2 percent more than a year earlier, U.S. Department
of Agriculture data show. Production of meat from broilers will
rise 2.1 percent to a record 37.809 billion pounds this year and
2.5 percent to 38.75 billion pounds in 2014, the USDA says.  Feed including corn makes up about 68 percent of the costs
of raising a live bird, according to Tom Elam, president of
 FarmEcon LLC , an agriculture and food-industry consultant in
Carmel,  Indiana . While that’s less than the 72 percent cost for
hogs and as much as 85 percent for cattle, poultry farmers can
move more quickly to expand production.  It takes as few as eight to 10 weeks from the time an egg
is laid until the bird enters the processing plant. That means a
farmer can add more hens and expand production in about six
months, Elam said. Boosting output takes about a year for hogs
and about three years for cattle.  Worst Drought  U.S. farmers are collecting a record corn crop of 13.843
billion bushels this year, 28 percent more than in 2012, when
the worst drought since the 1930s cut output and sent prices on
the Chicago Board of Trade to an all-time high of $8.49 a bushel
in August 2012. The grain fell 0.2 percent to settle at $4.2625
today.  Processors slaughtered 705.7 million chickens in September,
4.5 percent more than a year earlier, and birds on average
weighed 5.95 pounds, a gain of 1.2 percent, the USDA said in a
 report  on Oct. 24.  Restaurants will pay 5 percent to 10 percent less for
chicken next year, said David Maloni, the president of the
 American Restaurant Association Inc.  in Sarasota,  Florida . The
decline may be curbed by rising demand as consumers seek a
cheaper alternative to beef and as restaurants add more chicken
to their menus, he said.  McDonald’s, the world’s largest restaurant chain, started
serving bone-in “Mighty Wings,”  Burger King Worldwide Inc. (BKW) 
introduced buffalo chicken strips, and Wendy’s Co. is offering a
chicken sandwich on a pretzel bun.  Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM) ’s Chief
Executive Officer  David Novak  said on an Oct. 9 earnings call
that  Pizza Hut  will increase marketing of chicken strips and
wings next year.  Dry Pastures  Whole chickens averaged $1.528 a pound at U.S. grocery
stores in September, the most this year, while boneless round
steaks averaged $4.874 a pound, 3.1 percent more than a year
earlier, Bureau of Labor data show. U.S. beef output will drop
5.7 percent to 24.150 billion pounds next year, the lowest since
1993, after the drought dried up pastures and cattle producers
culled herds in response to rising feed costs, USDA data show.  Tyson, the largest U.S. meat processor, will buy extra meat
rather than expand output, Chief Executive Officer Donald Smith
said on an Aug. 5 earnings conference call with analysts. Rising
demand and lower feed costs contributed to record profit for the
Springdale, Arkansas-based company’s chicken unit in the three
months through June 29.  Commodity Costs  Cheaper birds will provide “margin relief” on the $4.99
rotisserie chicken at Costco, the largest U.S. warehouse-club
chain, Chief Financial Officer Richard Galanti said on a
conference call with analysts Oct. 9. The Issaquah, Washington-based company sells more than 60 million chickens a year,
generating $300 million in revenue.  Chicken, beef and bacon had the biggest impact on commodity
costs for  Oak Brook , Illinois-based McDonald’s, “partly offset
by some of the lower grain costs,” CFO Peter Bensen said on an
Oct. 21 conference call to discuss third-quarter earnings.  Increased supplies of chicken wings helped lower costs and
boost third-quarter earnings for  Buffalo Wild Wings Inc. (BWLD) , a
Minneapolis-based restaurant chain with almost 1,000 stores.
There is “plenty of supply out there,” CFO Mary Twinem said
Oct. 29 on a conference call with analysts to discuss third-quarter earnings.  Fieldale Farms  Corp. in northeast  Georgia  is paying $4
million less a month compared with a year earlier for its weekly
chickenfeed ration of 400,000 bushels of corn.  “All of our competitors are expanding a little bit here
and there,” said Tom Hensley, the president of Fieldale, which
produces 3 million chickens a week. “But it all adds up when
you put the big picture together.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net ;
Dalton Barker in Chicago at 
 dbarker40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  