-- Chevron Says Some Parts of Australia LNG Project Need to Improve
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-11-03T03:46:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-03/chevron-says-some-parts-of-australia-lng-project-need-to-improve.html
Chevron Corp. (CVX) , operator of the A$52
billion ($49 billion) Gorgon natural gas venture in Australia,
said some “uncertainties” remain in the construction of the
project after its budget last year jumped 21 percent.  Some areas of construction “still need to improve” after
Gorgon costs surged on gains in the Australian dollar, higher
labor expenses and weather delays, Chief Financial Officer Pat Yarrington said on a Nov. 1 call with analysts, according to a
transcript.  Labor productivity  at Gorgon, located on  Barrow
Island  off northwest Australia, has increased, she said.  Chevron, the second-largest U.S. oil producer by market
value, is completing its budget for the year and will inform
investors of any potential cost changes, she said. Royal Dutch
Shell Plc and Exxon Mobil Corp. are partners in Gorgon, which
Yarrington said during the call is more than 70 percent
complete.  “Productivity, I would say, is improving on all fronts but
there are still some areas that still need to improve,”
Yarrington said. “We are moving into a critical phase from a
schedule standpoint on the project.”  Gorgon is one of seven liquefied natural gas projects being
built in  Australia  to meet rising Asian demand for the
commodity. Chevron said that it will weigh an expansion of
Gorgon, Australia’s largest resources project, against competing
investment proposals as costs in the country put Australia’s
competitiveness at risk.  “There are still uncertainties that exist with a project
of our size,” Yarrington said. “Our challenge every day is to
mitigate the risks as they arrive.”  The Gorgon partners are interested in an expansion of the
venture, Yarrington said. Gorgon is expected to deliver its
first cargoes in the first quarter of 2015 after the LNG plant
starts in late 2014, Chevron said in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  