-- China Seen Restarting IPOs This Year by Citic Securities
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   R i c h a r d   F r o s t
-- 2013-11-04T05:29:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-03/china-may-resume-ipos-after-party-meeting-citic-s-cheng-says.html
China  may lift a 12-month ban on new
share sales this year following a Communist Party policy summit,
according to the nation’s largest brokerage by market value.  The nation’s top party officials will meet in Beijing from
Nov. 9-12 to map out a blueprint for reform. Regulators
suspended initial public offerings in October 2012 and pledged
not to lift the ban until new rules are introduced to curb
misconduct and boost protection for investors. The benchmark
 Shanghai  Composite Index, which plunged to the lowest levels in
four years in June, has since rallied 10 percent.  “We still have reasons to believe that the IPOs may resume
before the end of this year, as the policy meeting ends Nov.
12,” Boming Cheng, president of Citic Securities Inc., said in
an interview in New York, where he was attending the Chinese
Finance Association’s annual conference.  The China Securities Regulatory Commission is drafting
rules to curb misconduct that would establish stiff penalties
for investment banks before ending the freeze on IPOs. The CSRC
regulations, published in draft form June 7 on the agency’s
website, call for penalties against banks and their employees
for transgressions such as including inaccurate information in a
prospectus and poor risk disclosure.  Of the 622 companies that have submitted self-inspection
reports, 268 have withdrawn their IPO applications, according to
an Oct. 11 statement on the CSRC website. China hasn’t had a new
listing since Oct. 11, 2012, when Org Packaging Co. and Haixin
Foods Co. started trading in Shenzhen. The  Shanghai Composite (SHCOMP) 
added 0.1 percent to 2,151.82 at 1:25 p.m. local time.  ChiNext Rally  Smaller company stocks may be most affected when the IPO
ban is lifted, according to Zhang Yanbing, analyst at Zheshang
Securities Co. in Shanghai. The ChiNext index of Shenzhen-listed
companies doubled in the 12 months through Oct. 9, compared with
a 5.8 percent advance by the CSI 300 Index of larger companies.
The 100-member ChiNext, which trades at 54 times reported
profits, has lost 13 percent from its October peak.  The restart of IPOs will be a “big negative” for the
market, Zhang said by phone. “It will exacerbate the fear of
tight liquidity. Small-cap companies, which are already
performing badly because of the high valuations, will be hit
because money would be diverted to the new companies.”  The securities watchdog hasn’t said when the new rules will
be implemented and IPOs allowed to resume. A China Daily  report 
on Oct. 12 cited an unnamed CSRC spokesman as saying there was
“no new progress” on IPOs restarting.  Fundraising Fees  The market freeze has been a blow to investment banks,
whose revenue had soared as China became the world’s biggest
market for IPOs in 2010 with a record $71 billion raised,
surpassing the U.S.’s $54 billion that year and Hong Kong’s $53
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Since that
bonanza, fundraising from IPOs in China dropped to $40 billion
in 2011 and $14.4 billion last year.  Some companies are turning to overseas markets to raise
funds. Five Chinese firms have completed U.S. IPOs this year,
rallying an average 43 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Qunar Cayman Islands Ltd., a travel-booking service
controlled by Baidu Inc., and  58.Com Inc. (WUBA) , a Chinese online
marketplace similar to Craigslist, jumped last week after
selling shares above their price targets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Frost in Hong Kong at 
 rfrost4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  