-- CIA Drone Strike Kills Pakistan Taliban Head Before Talks
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   K h u r r u m   A n i s
-- 2013-11-03T20:52:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-03/cia-drone-strike-kills-pakistan-taliban-head-before-talks.html
A CIA drone strike killed the leader
of the Pakistani Taliban in what the government in Islamabad
described as an attempt to derail peace talks in the country.  The Foreign Ministry summoned U.S. ambassador Richard Olson
to protest the attack after the death of Hakimullah Mehsud, head
of the Tehrik-e Taliban  Pakistan  group, whose killing was
confirmed in a statement by the Taliban in  Afghanistan .  Mehsud, the target of the Nov. 1 strike in North
Waziristan, was indicted in the U.S. three years ago for his
alleged role in a suicide bombing that killed seven Central
Intelligence Agency employees in Afghanistan in 2009. His TTP
was also tied to the failed 2010 car bombing in  New York  City’s
Times Square by naturalized U.S. citizen Faisal Shahzad.  “This is a bad guy,” U.S. Representative Mike Rogers, a
Michigan Republican and chairman of the House Intelligence
Committee, said today on CBS’s “Face the Nation.”  Mehsud had also been implicated in threats to U.S. troops
that Rogers didn’t specify.  “There was some information recently that concerned us
about the safety of our troops,” Rogers said. “I feel a little
better for our troops today than I did before this event
happened.”  The lawmaker used the Meshud case to defend intelligence
agencies such as the National Security Agency, which have been
embroiled in the international condemnation of alleged U.S.
spying.  ‘Job Done’  “We should use every means that is legal, protects civil
liberties, that gets the job done,” Rogers said. “I think
that’s exactly what we’re doing.”  Mehsud’s death would be a coup for U.S. efforts to weaken
the Taliban, even as it complicates Pakistan’s push to engage in
talks with the Islamic militants. The U.S. had been seeking to
restore closer ties with the nuclear-armed nation through
economic aid, which President  Barack Obama  stressed in an Oct.
23 meeting with Prime Minister  Nawaz Sharif  in  Washington .  “America has interfered with our  peace process ,” Interior
Minister Chaudhry Nisar Ali Khan said yesterday at a press
conference in Islamabad. “The efforts have been ambushed.”  Pakistan will review “every aspect” of cooperation
following the attack, which violated an agreement with the U.S.
not to target Mehsud’s group during peace talks, Khan told
reporters.  In a comment aimed at the U.S., he said: “Your approach of
assisting the peace process is by killing the leader of the
other outfit a day before consultations are to begin?”  Drone Violation  The Foreign Ministry said the drone strike was “a
violation of Pakistan’s sovereignty and territorial integrity.”  Even as the Pakistani government has denounced such
attacks, it has cooperated with U.S. intelligence agencies in
locating, tracking and targeting leaders of the Pakistani
Taliban, including Mehsud, according to a U.S. official, who
requested anonymity to discuss sensitive intelligence matters.  Intelligence on Mehsud’s whereabouts this time was
considered to be of medium to high credibility -- a level of
confidence that triggered the strike, the U.S. official said.  Pakistan’s cooperation with the U.S. hasn’t extended to
efforts to find Mullah Muhammad Omar and other leaders of the
Afghan Taliban, considered allies by the Pakistani government.  Mehsud has been reported killed several times, only to
resurface. For that reason, U.S. officials were reluctant to
confirm reports of his death. In this case, accounts that he was
killed are considered credible, the U.S. official said.  Multiple Deaths  Al Jazeera television reported there were multiple deaths
in the strike, which it said targeted a meeting of Taliban
leaders. A meeting of Pakistan’s Taliban council yesterday chose
Khan Sayed as their new leader, Dawn newspaper reported.  Imran Khan , whose Tehrik-e-Insaaf party controls the Khyber
Pakhtunkhwa province, has threatened to block NATO supply lines
to Afghanistan in retaliation for what he described as a U.S.
attempt to sabotage the negotiations through drone attacks.  “We won’t let these supplies pass even if we have to
sacrifice our government” in the border province, Khan, a
former professional cricket star, told reporters yesterday in
Lahore.  Mehsud had been accused of conspiracy to murder U.S.
citizens abroad in the bombing on Dec. 30, 2009. Seven CIA
employees were killed and six others injured by a Jordanian
double agent who was allowed onto a base in eastern Afghanistan
near the Pakistani border in the belief he was bringing
intelligence on al-Qaeda.  After the attack, the Pakistani Taliban released a video of
the bomber in which Mehsud justified the killings.  War Crimes  Before Friday’s raid, drone strikes in Pakistan’s tribal
areas had fallen to 14 this year after peaking at 115 in 2010,
according to data from the Pakistan Defense Ministry released by
the parliament. There were 67 civilians killed in the attacks
from 2008 to 2013, the figures showed.  Amnesty International , a human-rights group, issued a
report last week saying U.S. drone strikes in Pakistan are
sometimes conducted without legal justification and may amount
to  war crimes . It called on the Obama administration to
investigate any potential unlawful killings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net ;
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  