-- Citigroup Favors Debt as Real Yield Lures Western: Korea Markets
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-11-04T03:28:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-03/citigroup-favors-debt-as-real-yield-lures-western-korea-markets.html
The highest inflation-adjusted yield
among  Asia ’s biggest economies is attracting Citigroup Inc. and
 Western Asset  Management Co. to South  Korea ’s sovereign bonds.  After adjusting for a 0.7 percent gain in consumer prices,
the least in the region, the nation’s benchmark 10-year notes
 paid  2.75 percent as of Nov. 1, the highest since 2009, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with the so-called
real yield of 2.44 percent on Thai securities, ranked second.  Benign  inflation (KOCPIYOY)  has enabled central bank Governor Kim Choong Soo to keep borrowing costs at a three-year low of 2.5
percent. The won has rallied the most in Asia since the end of
June as exports climbed to a record and the  Federal Reserve 
delayed tapering stimulus that has boosted  emerging markets .  “From a relative value perspective, the Korean curve is
still attractive,” Kim Wontae, a Singapore-based analyst at
Western Asset, said in a Nov. 1 interview. “The likelihood of a
U.S. taper in 2013 has greatly diminished and there is value to
be had in the Korean sovereign bonds. Fundamentals will take
root, making Korea an attractive option.”  Inflation last month was at the lowest level since Feb.
1999 and hasn’t exceeded 2 percent in a year. October’s exports
jumped 7.3 percent from a year earlier to a record $50.5
billion, latest official data show. The  Bank of Korea  predicted
on Oct. 29 that the nation’s current account surplus will reach
an all-time high of $63 billion in 2013.  ‘Foster Inflows’  Asia’s fourth-largest economy grew 3.3 percent last quarter
from a year earlier, the fastest pace since the final three
months of 2011, central bank data show. The won strengthened 7.5
percent this half and fell 0.1 percent to 1,061.75 per dollar
today in  Seoul .  “The improving growth dynamic will likely foster new
portfolio inflows,” Danny Suwanapruti, an analyst at  Standard
Chartered  in  Singapore , wrote in an Oct. 24 research note. The
bank recommends buying three-year local currency bonds as it
expects  South Korea ’s monetary policy to remain stable and
anticipates strong demand for its debt from foreign and local
investors, according to the report.  The 10-year yield has declined 25 basis points to 3.49
percent as of today from a 15-month high reached Aug. 19, while
the three-year yield dropped 12 basis points in the period to
2.87 percent. Standard Chartered predicts the three-year yield
will decline to 2.7 percent, without specifying a timeframe.  Local Demand  Local demand for bonds will be supported by the nation’s
growing ranks of retirees, driving longer-dated yields lower,
Gaurav Garg, a Citigroup strategist in Singapore, wrote in an
Oct. 24 report.  South Korea’s population is aging at the fastest pace among
advanced nations, according to the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development. Statistics Korea estimates that by
2026, one of five citizens will be aged 65 or older, a level the
U.S. won’t reach until a decade later.  “We expect rates to remain low over the medium to long
term,” Garg wrote. “The aging demographics and demand for
duration from domestic investors are prominent anchors for long
term rates.”  Meritz Securities Co., which oversees $7 billion of assets,
prefers stocks and real estate over government debt because it
expects yields to rise once the Fed starts tapering its $85
billion of monthly bond purchases, according to Park Sungjin,
the company’s Seoul-based head of asset management.  Tapering Fears  “When tapering starts, it could hurt  cash flow  into
Korea,” Park said in an Oct. 25 telephone interview. He favors
two-year notes over those maturing in a decade, predicting South
Korea’s economic recovery will push 10-year yields to 3.7
percent in six months.  Economists expect the Fed to delay the first reduction in
its bond-buying program until March, according to the median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey conducted Oct.
17-18, after the U.S. government ended a 16-day shutdown.  The Fed maintained its stimulus on Oct. 30, noting the
world’s largest economy is showing signs of “underlying
strength.” The yield on 10-year U.S. Treasuries slid to 2.62
percent as of 10:33 a.m. in Singapore from a two-year high of
2.99 percent on Sept. 5, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Sovereign Funds  Geoff Kendrick, Morgan Stanley’s head of Asian currencies
and rates strategy in  Hong Kong , predicts overseas ownership of
South Korea’s debt will grow as foreign monetary authorities and
sovereign wealth funds increase holdings. Non-residents hold 15
percent of the nation’s government debt and 22 percent of the
BOK’s bonds, he wrote in an Oct. 17 report.  Norway’s sovereign wealth fund, the world’s largest, said
in an Oct. 25  report  it purchased South Korean  government bonds ,
which are its 10th biggest holding.  “We could see money flowing to Korean bonds should U.S.
yields decline further,” said Park Taeshin, a currency and
fixed-income trader at Societe Generale SA in Seoul. “It’s
undeniable that Asia’s highest real yield merits buying.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net ;
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  