-- Coconut Crisis Looms as Postwar Palm Trees Age: Southeast Asia
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2013-11-04T07:49:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-03/coconut-crisis-looms-as-postwar-palm-trees-age-southeast-asia.html
Asia’s coconut palms, which mark the
landscape from the Philippines to India, face a crisis as aging
groves become less productive, with harvests that are a source
of food and income for millions being outstripped by demand.  The trees, many of which were planted about 50 to 60 years
ago, no longer yield enough to meet rising demand, according to
the Rome-based Food & Agriculture Organization. There’s an
urgent need for replanting, said  Hiroyuki Konuma , regional
representative for Asia and the Pacific at the UN agency, which
is coordinating a response to the challenge. While world
consumption of coconut products is growing more than 10 percent
a year, production is increasing by only 2 percent, it said.  At stake is the productivity of a core part of the rural
economy in the Asia-Pacific, which accounts for about 85 percent
of the global supply of the commodity that goes into food, fuel,
soaps and cosmetics. In the Philippines, among the three biggest
growers, one in five people depends on the crop to some extent,
according to the Asian and Pacific Coconut Community. The
Jakarta-based group, which represents growers, predicts that
harvests could be increased to benefit millions of smallholders.  “We have a lot of aging trees,” Yvonne Agustin, executive
director of the United Coconut Association of the  Philippines ,
said in an interview, adding some local palms are already 100
years old. “The government recognizes that and has embarked on
a planting and replanting program,” Agustin said by phone.  Slender Trees  The slender trees that are a staple image for tourists’
postcards are productive for between 50 years and a century,
with the highest yields in the first three decades, according to
the FAO. The harvest in the Asia-Pacific is now about 40 nuts
per tree a year, compared with a potential yield of 75 to 150,
it estimates, saying replanting is advisable after 60 years.  India, Asia’s third-largest economy, is the top producer,
harvesting 17 billion nuts last year, followed by  Indonesia ,
which gathered 15.4 billion, and the Philippines, with 15.2
billion, according to the Asian and Pacific Coconut Community.
The global coconut area was about 12.3 million hectares (30.3
million acres), yielding 64.3 billion nuts, it said.  While the expansion of services and manufacturing spurs
economic growth in Asia, farming remains important. In India,
agriculture accounted for 17 percent of gross domestic product
last year, according to the Washington-based World Bank. In
Indonesia, agriculture was 15 percent of GDP in 2011, while in
the Philippines it was 13 percent. The FAO estimates the coconut
industry accounts for as much as 5 percent of Philippine GDP.  Philippine Yield  In the Philippines, an estimated 340 million trees cover 26
percent of farmland, yielding 43 nuts per tree a year, data from
the Philippine Coconut Authority show. Shipments of coconut
products in the first eight months of the year rose 10 percent
to $1 billion, data from the statistics agency show. The
industry is the country’s largest agricultural exporter, said
Euclides Forbes, the authority’s administrator.  Kerala is the top producer in  India , followed by Tamil
Nadu, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, according to the Coconut
Development Board, under the Ministry of Agriculture. While a
trial program in Kerala to replace aged palms has boosted
productivity, yields are still dropping in the three other
states, sometimes by as much as third, Sugata Ghose, the board’s
chief coconut development officer, said in an interview.  “We have removed disease-ridden and old palms for
replanting,” said Ghose, who’s based in Kochi, Kerala. “Last
year, we had a big problem with the price, as farmers were not
getting a good price. This year farmers are happy because
production is less plus demand has gone up.”  Bangkok Consultation  Not all farmers face difficulties. Aging trees aren’t an
issue in  Vietnam ’s Ben Tre, according to Tran Van Hung, deputy
director of the agriculture department in the province that’s
the biggest grower. Yields are stable at about 100 nuts per tree
a year in most areas, up from about 60 a few years ago after
prices rose and farmers used more fertilizer, Hung said.  The FAO, a United Nations agency, hosted a consultation in
Bangkok last week to address the yield issue, drawing
representatives from states including the three top growers as
well as Fiji and the Solomon Islands. While yields are low and
most trees are old, scientists are working to raise output, said
Siriwat Kajornprasart,  Thailand ’s deputy minister of agriculture
and cooperatives.  “Coconut is a traditional crop in India, with more than
2,000 years of history,” K. Muralidharan, director of the
Coconut Development Board, said on the sidelines of the
gathering in Bangkok. Every part of the palm can be used, and
the industry contributes more than 83 billion rupees ($1.3
billion) a year to  India’s GDP (INQGGDPY) , he said.  ‘Often Overlooked’  New trees can start producing in as few as two or three
years, according to Romulo Arancon, executive director of the
Asian and Pacific Coconut Community. With replanting and
improved farm practices, output can be raised by 50 percent to
100 percent within a few years, said Arancon, who estimated that
a mature palm can produce as many as 400 nuts a year.  More than half of Indonesia’s 4 million hectares of palms
are aging, or over 50 years old, said Irawadi Jamaran, chairman
of the Indonesian Coconut Board, which groups producers,
processors and sellers. The main problem for the industry is a
lack of government attention, with greater concern for bigger
plantations, especially oil palm, Irawadi said. The country is
the largest producer of palm oil, which is grown on estates.  “Coconut is often overlooked by many people because we’re
always looking at rice and oil palm, and people don’t think
coconut is an important one: this is not true,” the FAO’s
Konuma said in an interview. “It contributes to economy,
culture and livelihood.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  