-- Don’t Let Texas Restrict Abortion Again
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-11-03T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-03/don-t-let-texas-restrict-abortion-again.html
You can’t fault  Texas  for
inconsistency. It first criminalized abortion in 1854, and  Roe
v. Wade  arose from a lawsuit in Dallas County. That 1973 Supreme
Court ruling, which protects a woman’s right to have an
abortion, is still the law of the land.  It’s a point worth keeping mind in view of last week’s
legal roller coaster in Texas. First, a federal judge struck
down an important part of the state’s restrictive  new abortion
law  before it was scheduled to take effect Oct. 29. A  few days
later , a federal appeals court said the law could go ahead while
appeals proceed.  As expected, 13 Texas clinics -- one-third of the state’s
abortion providers -- then announced they would cease providing
those services. That was exactly the result the law’s supporters
wanted.  The law requires doctors who perform abortions to have
formal admitting privileges at a hospital within 30 miles of the
abortion clinic. Anti-abortion politics drove the legislation,
not health policy.  Surely one reason Roe v. Wade has survived, despite decades
of assaults on its constitutional and moral integrity, is its
own lack of dogmatism. Amid intensely polarized and
uncompromising public views on abortion, it sought a middle
ground that established a woman’s right to abortion while making
it clear the court deemed that right anything but absolute.  “The decision leaves the State free to place increasing
restrictions on abortion as the period of pregnancy lengthens,
so long as those restrictions are tailored to the recognized
state interests,” it reads. By “recognized state interests”
it means “protecting both the pregnant woman’s health and the
potentiality of human life.”  Texas officials knew better than to defy Roe too blatantly
by stating their intention to curtail abortions. Instead, they
chose an end run around the law: By using regulatory subterfuge
to drive abortion clinics out of business, the state can claim
that the right to abortion exists in theory in Texas while
destroying it in practice.  The three-judge appeals court panel that unanimously
allowed the law to proceed didn’t rule on its merits. But it
clearly indicated its sympathy with the state, noting that
requiring doctors to have admitting privileges at a nearby
hospital is not so different from requiring abortions to be
performed by licensed doctors in the first place. Even if some
women will have to drive 150 miles to find abortion services,
the panel said, that’s not necessarily an “undue burden.”  The case is not closed. The full appeals court has
scheduled arguments on the challenge to the law for January.
Other courts have provisionally blocked similar restrictions in
 Alabama ,  Mississippi ,  North Dakota  and  Wisconsin , suggesting the
Texas law and like-minded efforts to undermine abortion rights
could well end up before the U.S. Supreme Court.  Roe v. Wade has been subject to adjustments over the years,
and as prenatal technology advances, it may require
reconsiderations of the difficult balance between fetal life and
 women’s rights . But making abortion services geographically
inaccessible, as the Texas law does, has the same practical
effect as making them illegal. If Roe is the law of the land,
the Texas law cannot stand.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 