-- Dueling Russian Poets Keep Putin in Power
-- B y   O l e g   K a s h i n
-- 2013-11-03T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-03/dueling-russian-poets-keep-putin-in-power.html
In  Russia , a poet is more than a
poet. The strong feelings revealed in a recent national argument
over two bards -- Yevgeny Yevtushenko, long emigrated to the
U.S., and Joseph Brodsky, who died in 1996 -- might even help
explain how the regime of President  Vladimir Putin  is able to
maintain its grip on power.  In late October, government-run Channel One television
departed from its usual fare of cheap entertainment and fawning
Putin coverage to air something truly surprising: an in-depth,
three-part interview with the 80-year-old Yevtushenko. The
program attracted between 12.6 percent and 17.2 percent of all
television viewers,  according  to the RIA Novosti news service --
a very high share for the late-night time slot in which the
interview was shown.  Fifty years ago, Yevtushenko was undoubtedly the world’s
best-known Russian poet. His face graced the  cover  of Time
magazine in 1962, and his poems made history. “Babi Yar” was
the first verse published in the Soviet Union to address the
Holocaust, and “The Heirs of Stalin” became a symbol of the
thaw in Soviet society under  Nikita Khrushchev  in the early
1960s. The Communist Party, aware of Yevtushenko’s global fame,
handled him with care. Officials allowed his poems to be printed
in newspapers, published thousands of copies of his books and
honored him with the state’s top literary awards.  Now Yevtushenko’s fame is long past. He works as a
professor at the University of Tulsa in  Oklahoma , where --
 according  to students -- he has to hand out his biography to
make students aware of who he is. He still writes poetry. In his
Channel One interview, he read a piece about the “Oklahoma
steppes.” But Russians don’t set his poems to music anymore.  What, then, explains the immense interest in Yevtushenko’s
interview? It probably has something to do with the details he
revealed about his relationship with Brodsky, a Nobel Prize
winner and probably the last Russian poet to be called great.  Brodsky didn’t share Yevtushenko’s privileged position in
the  Soviet Union . Authorities refused to recognize him as a
poet, punished him for failing to find useful employment and
sent him away to live in a far northern village. He was ejected
from the country in 1972, after which he lived and taught in the
U.S. His rejection of his Russian homeland was so complete that
he chose to be buried in  Venice ,  Italy .  The two poets famously crossed paths before Brodsky’s
exile, when Yevtushenko offered to speak with some of his
acquaintances in the KGB on Brodsky’s behalf. Brodsky took the
offer as proof that Yevtushenko was working for the security
services -- a belief that later moved him to write a letter
warning Queens College not to hire Yevtushenko, who was being
considered for a job at the time. In the Channel One interview,
Yevtushenko swore, with tears in his eyes, that Brodsky was
mistaken. “We’ll make our peace in heaven,” he said.  The recollection of the poets’ conflict elicited a strong
reaction in newspapers and social networks, suggesting that its
significance reaches beyond literature and into the realm of
politics.  “The hullabaloo that has arisen around an old spat between
an aging poet and a dead poet speaks of mass nostalgia for the
times when poets’ words actually meant something for the life of
the nation,”  wrote  columnist Igor Karaulov in the newspaper
Izvestiya. Journalist Gleb Morev,  writing  on Facebook, called
the interview a “great victory” for Yevtushenko, “not in the
battle with Brodsky, which he lost long ago, but in his own
poetical biography.”  The reaction demonstrates a big unresolved issue: Russians
have yet to figure out what the allowable limits of the
relationship between artists and authority should be.
Yevtushenko and Brodsky represent two very different models.
Brodsky recognized no authority other than poetry. Yevtushenko,
by contrast, has played every possible game with the Kremlin --
an approach illustrated by his ability to land a three-part
interview on state television. Present-day celebrities,  such as 
the conductor Valery Gergiev, go even further in their
entanglements with the ruling regime.  The conflicting attitudes toward the two poets also reflect
a deep split in Russian society. Brodsky was never as widely
read as Yevtushenko, but for the Moscow intelligentsia who
comprise a large part of the anti-Putin opposition he is the
most important and well-loved. As such, he has become a symbol
of the antipathy between the groups that present the greatest
threats to Putin: the “creative class” and nationalist-leaning
regular folk. The nationalists generally haven’t read Brodsky,
and they’re fully aware that the intelligentsia regards them
with disdain.  This opposition within the opposition guarantees the
resilience of Putin’s regime far better than any political
technology could. Until Russians start reading the same books,
Putin has nothing to fear.  (Oleg Kashin is a Russian journalist living in Geneva.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Oleg Kashin at  okashin@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at   mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 