-- Johnson Follows Woods With PGA Titles in His First Seven Seasons
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-11-04T02:04:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-03/dustin-johnson-wins-golf-s-hsbc-champions-tournament-by-3-shots.html
Dustin Johnson  became the first
golfer since  Tiger Woods  to win U.S.  PGA Tour  titles in each of
his first seven seasons with a three-stroke victory at golf’s
HSBC Champions tournament in Shanghai.  Johnson shot a 6-under-par 66 yesterday -- his fourth
straight round in the 60s -- to finish at 24-under par at
Sheshan International Golf Club. It was the second-lowest score
in relation to par at a World Golf Championships event, behind
Woods’s 25-under effort at the 2002 Cadillac Championship.  Johnson, 29, received $1.53 million for his eighth career
PGA Tour victory, which came in his first start of the
wraparound 2013-14 season. He also won his opening tournament
last season at the Hyundai Tournament of Champions in Hawaii.  “Getting off with a win is definitely huge,” said
Johnson, who made three birdies and an eagle over the last six
holes yesterday to erase a one-shot deficit. “It’s my biggest
win I’ve had so far in my career.”  Woods also won PGA Tour events in his first seven seasons
out of college from 1996 through 2001. Only  Phil Mickelson  has a
longer current winning streak than Johnson, with 10 consecutive
seasons with at least one PGA Tour title.  Johnson of the U.S., Northern Ireland’s Rory McIlroy (6)
and American Webb Simpson (4) are the only three players under
the age of 30 with four or more career PGA Tour wins.  Johnson opened the WGC event in Shanghai with rounds of 69,
63 and 66 to take a three-stroke lead into the final day. He
lost that advantage yesterday, falling one shot behind defending
champion  Ian Poulter  of England after 12 holes. Johnson then had
back-to-back birdies, including a 20-foot putt on the 14th hole,
before chipping in for an eagle on the par-4 16th hole.  ‘Finished the Job’  Poulter, who was seeking to become the only player other
than Woods to defend a WGC title, finished second at 21-under
par, one shot better than Graeme McDowell of  Northern Ireland .  “Dustin going birdie, eagle there kind of finished the
job,” Poulter said. “It was good golf and it was good fun to
play in that group.”  After events in Malaysia and China, the PGA Tour returns to
the U.S. this week for the McGladrey Classic on Nov. 7-10 in  Sea
Island , Georgia. It will be followed by the OHL Classic at
Mayakoba in  Mexico , with all six events for the new season held
this year awarding FedEx Cup points for the first time.  The  PGA Tour schedule  then resumes in January with its
traditional swing through Hawaii before moving to the U.S. West
Coast for six events in California and Arizona.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  