-- Euro Reaches 6-Week Low Before ECB Meets This Week; Aussie Rises
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2013-11-04T08:31:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-03/euro-near-two-week-low-on-ecb-policy-outlook-dollar-holds-gain.html
The euro fell to a six-week low
versus the dollar before European Central Bank Executive Board
member Joerg Asmussen speaks in the run-up to a policy meeting
this week amid speculation further stimulus will be needed.  The 17-nation currency had its biggest weekly decline last
week since July 2012 as some economists predicted the ECB led by
President  Mario Draghi  will cut interest rates to revive growth.
The dollar was little changed after Federal  Reserve Bank  of
Dallas President  Richard Fisher  said the central bank should
resume normal monetary policy as soon as possible.  Australia ’s
dollar strengthened versus all its 16 major counterparts as
retail sales increased.  “Sentiment toward the euro has turned in the last few days
and that’s been endorsed by some of their data disappointing,”
said  Imre Speizer , a market strategist at Westpac Banking Corp.
in Auckland. “We wouldn’t be surprised to see Draghi just
elevating slightly the chance for a rate cut, which would keep
the pressure on the euro.”  The euro was little changed at $1.3504 at 8:30 a.m. London
time after falling to $1.3442, the weakest level since Sept. 18.
It slumped 2.3 percent last week. The common currency was also
little changed at 133.11 yen. The dollar was at 98.59 yen from
98.67 last week.  The euro dropped last week after an Oct. 31 report showed
the region’s annual  inflation rate  unexpected fell to 0.7
percent last month, the least since November 2009, from 1.1
percent in September.  Rate Cut  Bank of America Corp., Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and
UBS AG all forecast the ECB will cut its main refinancing rate
this week, according to a Bloomberg News survey of 68
economists, with the rest predicting no change. The ECB last
lowered its  benchmark  in May to a record 0.5 percent.  The euro declined 1.1 percent in the past week, according
to Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes that track 10
developed nation currencies. The dollar strengthened 1.2 percent
and the yen advanced 0.2 percent.  The dollar strengthened last week after the  Federal Open
Market Committee  on Oct. 30 cited “underlying strength” in the
 U.S. economy  even as it maintained $85 billion in monthly bond
buying to spur growth. The purchases tend to debase the dollar.  “I am not a proponent of ever-increasing  government
spending ,” Fisher, who will vote on monetary policy next year,
said in the partial text of a speech today in Sydney. “I
mention this simply to illustrate a point. Unlike in most
recoveries, government has played a countercyclical, suppressive
role. The inability of our government to get its act together
has countered the procyclical policy of the  Federal Reserve .”  Services Report  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s U.S. services  index 
dropped to a four-month low of 54 in October from 54.4 the
previous month, according to a Bloomberg survey before the
report tomorrow. The ISM’s  manufacturing index  rose to 56.4, the
highest since April 2011, the Tempe, Arizona-based group said
Nov. 1. Readings above 50 indicate growth.  “The market has been very, very pessimistic and the data
hasn’t matched that pessimism,” Westpac’s Speizer said.
“Expectations are still quite depressed and it won’t take much
to beat those expectations so the chances of the  U.S. dollar 
rising further are quite high.”  Aussie Advances  The Australian dollar gained for the first time in three
days after the Bureau of Statistics said retail sales grew at
the fastest pace in seven months, adding to prospects the
Reserve Bank will refrain from cutting  interest rates  tomorrow.  Retail sales  rose 0.8 percent in September, compared with
the median forecast for a 0.4 percent in a Bloomberg survey.  “From an interest-rate perspective domestically, there’s a
growing view that we have hit the bottom,” said Hans Kunnen, a
senior economist at St. George Bank Ltd. in Sydney. “We think
the Aussie remains at these levels unless expectations somewhere
are totally knocked off the track.”  The Aussie gained 0.7 percent to 95.02 U.S. cents after
falling to 94.22 cents on Nov. 1, the weakest since Oct. 14.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Global FX Volatility Index, which
monitors price swings among currencies, rose eight basis points
to 8.27 percent after increasing 55 basis points last week. The
gauge dropped to 7.55 percent on Oct. 28, the lowest level since
Jan. 9.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  