-- Everton, Spurs Draw 0-0 in Premier League; Cardiff Beats Swansea
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-11-04T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-03/everton-draws-0-0-with-tottenham-in-england-s-premier-league.html
Tottenham Hotspur and Everton both
missed the chance to go second in the Premier League by drawing
0-0, while  Cardiff City  beat Swansea City 1-0 in the first
meeting of the south Wales clubs in English soccer’s top flight.  A win for Spurs or Everton at Goodison Park yesterday would
have lifted either club ahead of Chelsea and behind Arsenal,
which has a five-point lead atop the standings.  “The result is fair,” Tottenham manager Andre Villas-Boas
told reporters. “It was very tight. We could have gone second
but, considering Everton’s aspirations, it was important to get
a point.”  Spurs move up to fourth place while Everton stays seventh.
Arsenal leads the league with 25 points through 10 games,
followed by Chelsea, Liverpool and Tottenham with 20, and
Manchester City, Southampton and Everton with 19.  Tottenham dominated possession in the first half while
creating few clear chances, although  Tim Howard  saved from  Kyle
Walker  and Lewis Holtby. Jan Vertonghen had appeals for a
penalty kick turned down after he tangled with  Seamus Coleman .  Everton posed more threat to the visiting team’s goal in
the second half. Coleman went to ground in the Tottenham penalty
area under challenge by Vertonghen, though referee Kevin Friend
once again denied the penalty appeals.  A head injury to Tottenham goalkeeper Hugo Lloris led to
nine minutes of stoppage time. The Frenchman was knocked
unconscious by Romelu Lukaku’s knee, yet insisted on staying on
the field even as captain  Michael Dawson  urged him to leave.  ‘My Call’  Villas-Boas said it was his own decision to let Lloris
continue playing, against medical advice.  “The medical department was giving me signs that the
player couldn’t carry on because he couldn’t remember where he
was,” Villas-Boas said. “It was my call to delay the
substitution. You have to make a decision in situations like
this. From my knowledge of football he seemed OK to continue.”  Steven Caulker, who formerly played for Swansea on loan,
got Cardiff’s goal in the 62nd minute in the Welsh capital, out-muscling the defense to head in Craig Bellamy’s corner.  Swansea goalkeeper Michel Vorm was red-carded in stoppage
time after bringing down Fraizer Campbell outside the penalty
area. Defender Angel Rangel took over in goal and turned the
resulting free kick over the crossbar.  The result took Cardiff, which is playing in English
soccer’s top division for the first time in 51 years, up to 12th
place with 12 points, one more than Swansea.  “We were playing against a really good team here, a team
that have been winning well in  Europe  and are a mid-table
Premier League team,” Cardiff coach Malky Mackay said. “For us
to come up this year and play to that standard, especially in
the second half, I thought we were very dominant.”  Two days ago, Arsenal beat Liverpool 2-0,  Manchester United 
won 3-1 at Fulham,  Manchester City  routed Norwich 7-0 and
Newcastle upset Chelsea 2-0. Hull defeated Sunderland 1-0, Stoke
and Southampton drew 1-1, West Brom beat Crystal Palace 2-0, and
West Ham drew 0-0 with  Aston Villa .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  