-- Feinstein, Rogers Say Snowden Should Have No Chance for Clemency
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n   a n d   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2013-11-03T18:04:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-03/feinstein-rogers-say-snowden-should-have-no-chance-for-clemency.html
Former U.S. government contractor
Edward Snowden should be prosecuted with no chance for clemency
for divulging classified information, the nation’s two top
lawmakers on intelligence issues said today.  If Snowden had concerns about the U.S. government’s
electronic spying program, he should have approached Congress
and it would have investigated, Senator Dianne Feinstein, a
California Democrat, and Representative Mike Rogers, a Michigan
Republican, said on CBS’s “Face the Nation.”  “He needs to come back and own up,” said Rogers, chairman
of the House Intelligence Committee. “If he believes there’s
vulnerabilities in the systems he’d like to disclose, you don’t
do it by committing a crime that actually puts soldiers’ lives
at risk in places like  Afghanistan .”  “He stripped our system,” said Feinstein, chairman of
Senate Intelligence Committee.  American allies have expressed outrage over the latest
Snowden revelations that the National Security Agency may have
tapped German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s mobile phone and
eavesdropped on Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff’s private
communications. Brazil and Germany are pushing for a United
Nations inquiry scrutinizing the NSA for possible violations of
privacy rights in surveillance activities at home and abroad.  Diplomats from the two countries began circulating a draft
resolution last week calling on the UN High Commissioner for
Human Rights to investigate “the protection of the right to
privacy in the context of domestic and extraterritorial,
including massive, surveillance of communications, their
interception and collection of personal data,” according to a
copy obtained by Bloomberg.  Snowden Letter  Reports about the surveillance were based on material
provided by Snowden, who has offered to testify before the
German parliament. In a letter Snowden gave to a German
lawmaker, he said he would cooperate if he avoided prosecution.  The U.S. has received the draft and will evaluate the text
on its merits, said a U.S. official by e-mail, asking not to be
identified citing policy.  “We would have seen him and we would have looked at that
information,” Feinstein said of her committee. “That didn’t
happen. And now he’s done this enormous disservice to our
country. I think the answer is no clemency.”  Rogers said information released by Snowden had allowed
three terrorist organizations to change the way they communicate
to sidestep NSA spying. He didn’t identify the groups.  What’s more, it’s not credible that world leaders didn’t
know about the kind of spying on Merkel and others, Rogers said.  ‘Actor Awards’  “I think there’s going to be some best actor awards coming
out of the White House this year and best supporting actor
awards coming out of the European Union,” Rogers said.  General Michael Hayden, former chief of the Central
Intelligence Agency and NSA director, said on “Face the
Nation” that spying on foreign leaders such as Merkel was
“certainly nothing new.”  “This is what we were expected to do,” he said.  While the revelations had put the U.S. and  Germany  in “a
very difficult political spot,” he called it “the least of
their espionage worries in Berlin right now.”  Occasionally, the NSA was provided with “political
guidance” to cease certain surveillance activities, Hayden said
on CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS.”  “I had political guidance while I was director of the
NSA,” Hayden said. “I had targets. I had legitimate needs. But
I was told, frankly, ‘back off. That target is too sensitive. I
don’t want you doing that at this time for this purpose.’”  Kerry Comments  In testimony last week before the U.S. House intelligence
committee, Director of National Intelligence James Clapper said
allies have spied on American leaders just as the U.S. has
gathered information on them. U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry
said Oct. 31 that some American surveillance “reached too far”
and that he and Obama had learned of some efforts that were on
“automatic pilot.”  The Senate Intelligence Committee Oct. 31 announced that it
had approved a bill (S. 1631) to adjust federal government
surveillance programs amid the growing privacy debate. The
measure, approved 11-4, includes language to impose a five-year
limit on the retention of bulk communication records acquired
under Section 215 of the USA PATRIOT Act, according to a
statement released by the panel after a closed markup session.  Phone Records  Section 215 involves the bulk collection of “metadata,”
such as telephone numbers dialed, rather than the content of
communications, according to the White House. Snowden, who faces
U.S. espionage charges and has been granted temporary asylum in
 Russia , exposed a secret court order compelling  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  to give the NSA phone records, such as
numbers and call durations, on millions of Americans. The
administration has said the metadata collection involves more
phone carriers, without naming them.  The NSA collects the phone records under authority in the
USA Patriot Act. Civil liberties advocates from the American
Civil Liberties Union and some lawmakers have said the committee
bill, sponsored by Feinstein, doesn’t adequately rein in the
agency’s activities.  “The bill passed by the Senate Intelligence Committee does
not go far enough to address the NSA’s overreaching domestic
surveillance programs,” Senator Mark Udall, a Colorado
Democrat, said in a statement Oct. 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  