-- Georgian Premier Names Successor Amid Claims He’ll Keep Sway
-- B y   H e l e n a   B e d w e l l
-- 2013-11-04T16:20:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-03/georgian-billionaire-names-successor-amid-claims-he-ll-keep-sway.html
Georgia ’s billionaire Premier Bidzina Ivanishvili named a 31-year-old minister as his chosen
successor, reinforcing opposition claims that the tycoon would
continue running the Black Sea nation from behind the scenes.  Ivanishvili, who’s vowed to step down this month after a
year in office, said Nov. 2 that he’d nominate Interior Minister
 Irakli Garibashvili  to replace him in the country’s most
powerful job. The appointment needs backing from parliament,
which Ivanishvili’s Georgian Dream coalition controls.  The billionaire, 57, says he’s achieved his aim to reshape
Georgia’s political system after beating outgoing leader Mikheil Saakashvili’s United National Movement in 2012 parliamentary
elections and backing the winning candidate in a presidential
ballot last month. UNM officials say Ivanishvili will retain
control over Georgia, home to energy links between  Europe  and
the  Caspian Sea  that ship oil and gas westward to bypass  Russia .  The choice of nominee “fits the outgoing prime minister’s
plans of having a behind-the-scenes role in Georgian politics,”
Lilit Gevorgyan, senior analyst at IHS Global Insight in  London ,
said yesterday by e-mail. “Garibashvili is someone who’s been
vetted long before the Georgian Dream came to power, working for
Ivanishvili’s businesses.”  Sorbonne Education  Garibashvili, a founding member of Georgian Dream, has been
interior minister since last October and worked earlier at
Ivanishvili’s charitable foundation. He graduated in 2004 from
the political science faculty of Paris’s Sorbonne University and
has a master’s degree in international relations from the
capital’s Tbilisi State University. As well as Georgian, he
speaks English, French and Russian.  “Garibashvili has managed to transform the police, which
had lost its credibility -- this man has managed to make the
police honorable again,” Ivanishvili told reporters Nov. 2 in
Tbilisi. “This man deserves this post.”  UNM  officials have criticized the nomination and questioned
whether Ivanishvili will relinquish control.  “We don’t really think Garibashvili has any competence as
premier,” UNM lawmaker Zurab Japaridze told reporters in
Tbilisi after Ivanishvili announced his chosen successor.  Giorgi Kandelaki, another UNM deputy in parliament, was
skeptical about the nominee even before he’d been named.  ‘Very Weak’  “We already know the new prime minister will be a very
weak figure and a puppet of Ivanishvili,” he said Oct. 30 by e-mail. “It’s essential for all friends of Georgia, anyone out
there who cares about Georgia’s European and democratic future
to not allow the anti-democratic, informal rule to which
Ivanishvili aspires.”  Ivanishvili’s year in power has been marked by clashes with
Saakashvili. Members of the previous government, such as former
Premier Vano Merabishvili and ex-Defense and Interior Minister
Bacho Akhalaia, were arrested, sparking criticism from the
European Union and the U.S. Saakashvili said yesterday that he’d
decided to pardon Akhalaia in one of his final acts before
leaving office after two terms.  Ivanishvili said Oct. 23 that he’d step down a week after
the new president’s Nov. 17 inauguration to a diminished office
as Georgia shifts powers to the premier. President-elect Giorgi Margvelashvili, 43, got 62.1 percent in the Oct. 27 vote.  Ease Divisions  Margvelashvili told reporters today in Tbilisi that he
won’t work from the glass-domed presidential palace used by
Saakashvili and his administration, saying the space must be
handed to the public for educational purposes.  His arrival will help ease political tensions by bringing
an end to Georgia’s “divided government,” according to Moody’s
Investors Service.  Ivanishvili’s exit “will further ease political infighting
and pave the way for a more policy-focused debate, thereby
reinforcing a credible institutional framework in Georgia,”
Moody’s said Oct. 31 in an e-mailed note. “We expect no change
to the broad orientation of the country’s economic and foreign
policies, which have supported Georgia’s creditworthiness.”  Ivanishvili policy goals include raising  living standards ,
improving the justice system and boosting ties with Europe, the
U.S. and Russia, with which Georgia fought a five day war in
2008 over the breakaway republic of  South Ossetia . The tycoon,
who made most his $5.5 billion fortune in Russia, wants Georgia
to initial an EU association agreement this month.  Economy Worsens  Georgia’s economic performance has worsened under
Ivanishvili’s stewardship, with growth in  gross domestic product 
slowing to 1.5 percent from a year earlier in the second
quarter, down from as high as 8.2 percent in the same three
months of 2012.  Foreign direct investment fell for the first year in three
in 2012. Moody’s rates the country’s debt at Ba3, three steps
below investment grade and on par with Nigeria and  Portugal .  Garibashvili can’t be judged until he’s had time to make
his mark on his new post, according to Tengiz Pkhaladze,
chairman of the International Centre for Geopolitical Studies in
Tbilisi.  “He’s someone who already had a reputation and personality
-- he was a good minister and his main achievements were
depoliticizing the police,” he said yesterday by phone. “Let’s
wait and see his own program and vision now and maybe in two
months’ time we’ll be able to say more.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helena Bedwell in Tbilisi at 
 hbedwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  