-- Israeli Stocks Rise as Perrigo Jumps to Record; India Advances
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-11-03T16:41:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-03/global-gains-push-israeli-stocks-to-highest-in-week-amid-new-ceo.html
Israel’s benchmark index rose to a
two-week high after U.S. equities last week had their longest
rally since July and  Tel Aviv ’s exchange chose a new chief
executive officer. Indian stocks gained in a special session.  The  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  advanced 0.4 percent to 1,293.42 in Tel
Aviv, the highest close since Oct. 27.  Perrigo Co. (PRGO) , the largest
maker of generic over-the-counter medicines in the U.S., climbed
to an all-time high following gains in its New York-traded
shares last week. Egypt’s benchmark EGX 30 Index rose for a
fourth day, adding less than 0.1 percent.  U.S. stocks capped a fourth week of gains Nov. 1, as
better-than-estimated corporate earnings offset concern the
 Federal Reserve  may reduce monetary stimulus in coming months.
The Tel-Aviv Stock Exchange last week tapped Yossi Beinart,
currently CEO of  IG Group Holdings Plc (IGG) ’s Nadex, to lead its
effort to increase trading after volumes plunged 44 percent
between the start of 2010 and the end of last year. Beinart is
scheduled to take up the job on Jan. 1, the bourse said today.  “The optimistic tone in global shares over the weekend and
the appointment of a new CEO at the TASE are what are pushing up
the market,” Daniel Rapoport, head of equity trading and
derivatives at Tel Aviv-based  Bank Leumi Le-Israel Ltd. (LUMI) , said
today by phone. “People are hoping the new CEO will help
increase the attractiveness of the market.”  Perrigo led the gains, adding 5.9 percent to 501.8 shekels,
or $141.89, after rising 3.3 percent to $142.38 in the U.S. on
Nov. 1.  Globe Exploration LP (GLEX)  surged 49 percent in 15 times the
three-month daily average volume. The oil and gas explorer said
it found “significant” signs of petroleum at the Ofek/381
license.  Saudi Gains  Egypt’s benchmark gauge advanced ahead of the start of the
trial of former President Mohamed Mursi tomorrow. Mursi’s mostly
Islamist backers have vowed to stage demonstrations to protest
his military-led ouster in July. Talaat Moustafa Group, the
country’s biggest publicly traded property developer, added 0.5
percent to close at the highest in almost two weeks.  Kuwait’s index fell 0.9 percent, while Qatar’s declined 0.4
percent and Oman’s climbed 0.3 percent. Saudi Arabia’s Tadawul
All Share Index rose 0.2 percent and Bahrain’s gauge was little
changed. Markets in the United Arab Emirates were closed for a
public holiday.  In India, the 30-stock  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  rose 0.2 percent to
21,239.36 in a special, shortened trading session for the Diwali
festival holiday in Mumbai.  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , the owner of
Jaguar Land Rover, rallied to its all-time high.  Indian Oil
Corp. (IOCL)  surged the most in two months, leading other state-owned
refiners higher.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  