-- Growth Probably Slowed Prior to U.S. Government Shutdown
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-11-03T04:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-03/growth-probably-slowed-prior-to-u-s-government-shutdown.html
The economy probably slowed in the
third quarter and employers hired fewer workers in October,
indicating the U.S. expansion was losing momentum even before
the partial government shutdown, economists project reports to
show this week.  Gross domestic product grew at a 2 percent annualized rate
after a 2.5 percent pace from April through June, according to
the median forecast of 69 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
before Commerce Department figures due Nov. 7.  Consumer
spending , the biggest part of the economy, was probably the
weakest since 2011. Payrolls rose by 125,000 workers after a
148,000 gain in September, Labor Department figures may show.  A drop in government output and restrained business and
consumer purchases due to the 16-day shutdown last month have
prompted economists to trim fourth-quarter growth forecasts, a
separate Bloomberg survey showed. Tepid hiring and a jobless
rate that’s projected to have climbed in October help explain
why Federal Reserve policy makers are pressing on with stimulus.  “The economy still has growth, but it’s just very
moderate,” said  John Silvia , chief economist at  Wells Fargo
Securities LLC  in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina . “Job gains and
wage gains remain weak. That’s a challenge for consumer
spending.”  The GDP report may show consumer spending, which accounts
for about 70 percent of the economy, grew at a 1.6 percent
annualized rate, the smallest gain since the second quarter of
2011, according to the Bloomberg survey median. Purchases
advanced 1.8 percent from April through June.  Jobless Rate  The jobs report may show the  unemployment rate , derived
from a separate Labor Department survey of households than the
payrolls tally, rose to 7.3 percent, according to the Bloomberg
survey. It was 7.2 percent in September, the lowest since
November 2008. Private employment, which excludes government
agencies, climbed 130,000 after rising 126,000, economists
projected ahead of the Nov. 8 data.  Companies that announced job cuts last month include
 Coldwater Creek Inc. (CWTR) , a retailer of women’s clothing, which
plans to cut 20 percent of its workforce. Strayer Education
Inc., a for-profit college operator, also said it expects a 20
percent reduction in headcount as it closes about 20 locations.  Motor vehicle purchases have been a bright spot in the
expansion as Americans take advantage of cheaper borrowing costs
to replace older models.  Auto Sales  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  reported U.S. sales
gains for October as demand recovered following the shutdown.
Cars and light trucks sold at a 15.2 million annual rate last
month, matching the September pace, according to data from
Ward’s Automotive Group.  “What we saw early in the month was some softness, but we
were very encouraged when we saw the retail demand in the
industry bounce back,” John Felice, Ford’s vice president of
U.S. marketing, sales and service, said on a conference call.  Other data this week include the Institute for Supply
Management Inc.’s  services index , due Nov. 5. The report may
show its measure of industries that cover about 90 percent of
the economy cooled to 54 in October, the weakest in four months,
from 54.4, according to the Bloomberg survey median. Readings
above 50 signal expansion.  Growth this quarter will be less than economists projected
at the start of the budget impasse that began Oct. 1. GDP will
expand at a 2 percent annualized rate in the final three months
of the year, according to the median projection in a Bloomberg
survey on Oct. 31, down from a 2.4 percent forecast in an Oct.
4-9 survey.  Government Spending  The figure will reflect in a decline in government output,
estimated by the number of hours put in by federal workers, as
well as cutbacks at contractors, economists said.  The Fed at its meeting last week decided to continue $85
billion in monthly asset purchases as part of its efforts to
spur growth. The central bank left unchanged its statement that
it will probably hold its target interest rate near zero “at
least as long as” unemployment exceeds 6.5 percent, so long as
the outlook for inflation is no higher than 2.5 percent.  “The recovery in the housing sector slowed somewhat in
recent months,” the central bank said in the Oct. 30 release.
“Fiscal policy is restraining economic growth.”  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  