-- If It Looks Like a Bank, Regulate It Like a Bank
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-11-03T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-03/if-it-looks-like-a-bank-regulate-it-like-a-bank.html
Five years after a crisis that almost
took down the world economy, regulators are still groping for a
way to address one of the global financial system’s most obvious
weaknesses: the trillions of dollars in banking activity that
happens outside traditional banks.  Here’s a suggestion. If it acts like a bank, regulate it
like a bank.  The business of banking is inherently perilous. It turns
short-term savings (such as customer deposits) into long-term
investments (such as mortgages and corporate loans). This is
risky: If too many savers want their money back at once, the
bank can’t pay. It must either liquidate its assets or freeze
its accounts, either of which can trigger a broader panic.  That’s why governments insure  bank deposits  and central
banks stand ready to make emergency loans. In return for the
insurance, banks are asked to follow certain rules. They face
limits, for example, on how much they can lend for each dollar
of equity their shareholders invest. The bigger the equity
cushion, the less likely it is that taxpayers will have to bear
losses.  Regulating ordinary banks well is proving difficult enough,
but there’s a constellation of other financial intermediaries
that gamble in much the same way -- converting short-term
liabilities into long-term assets -- with no explicit government
backstop. This so-called shadow-banking industry is enormous.
Its global assets are  estimated  to have been more than $60
trillion at the end of 2011, making it about half the size of
the traditional banking sector.  In this shadow realm, other forms of short-term borrowing
such as shares in money-market mutual funds play the role of
deposits. Securities dealers,  hedge funds  and other financial
firms buy longer-term assets such as bonds backed by mortgages
or corporate loans. They employ the assets as collateral against
further loans, which they get from money-market funds, banks and
one another. The collateral gives creditors a guarantee they’ll
be repaid.  The shadow banks’ leverage is limited mainly by the amount
of money they can borrow against a given amount of collateral.
Before the crisis, they could borrow $97 against each $100 in
mortgage-backed securities -- a “haircut” of 3 percent, the
equivalent of putting just $3,000 down on a $100,000 home loan.
Such high leverage amplifies risk: If the price of the security
falls just 3 percent, the creditor’s margin of safety is wiped
out.  The 2008 crisis demonstrated just how fragile the shadow-banking system can be. Worries about mortgage bonds caused
prices to plunge, rendering all kinds of leveraged investors --
including investment banks such as Bear Stearns Cos. and Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. -- insolvent or unable to finance their
investments. The Lehman bankruptcy, in turn, triggered a run on
money-market funds, further draining the system of the liquidity
it needed to function.  How can this system be made more resilient?  Mark Carney ,
the new governor of the  Bank of England , offered a sense of what
regulators are thinking in a  speech  last week: Give shadow banks
the same access to emergency central-bank loans that traditional
banks enjoy. This is a dangerous idea, with the potential to
produce the kind of speculative boom that would end very badly.
Imagine the risks investors would be willing to take if they
knew the central bank would always provide cash if private
lenders balked.  Granted, Carney noted that this expansion of public
insurance would have to be accompanied by expanded regulation,
but he was vague about it. What he should have said is this: If
an entity engages in banking activity, and hence is vulnerable
to runs with potentially systemic consequences, it must register
as a bank, with all the backstops and capital requirements that
entails.  Money-market mutual funds, for example, could become
special-purpose “narrow” banks, as proposed in a 2010  paper  by
Yale University economists Gary Gorton and Andrew Metrick. The
same goes for entities that borrow short-term to invest in
asset-backed securities -- the so-called structured investment
vehicles and conduits that were the first to suffer runs in the
last crisis.  As for hedge funds and other institutions that would remain
in the shadows, minimum requirements for haircuts -- combined
with proper capital rules for the regulated banks that often
lend to them -- should suffice to keep leverage from getting out
of control. The Financial Stability Board, an international
group of regulators, has  proposed  a set of global minimum
haircuts that individual countries would do well to build upon.
There’s ample evidence that extreme leverage presents a threat
to markets and the economy -- and zero evidence that it provides
any benefits.  “Shadow banking” is really a misnomer. Regulators know
what’s going on and understand the threat it poses. They ought
to stop discussing the problem and start acting to solve it.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 