-- Brad Ausmus Hired as Tigers’ Manager After Leyland’s Retirement
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-11-04T05:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-03/tigers-hire-brad-ausmus-as-manager-after-leyland-s-retirement.html
Former catcher Brad Ausmus was hired
by the Detroit Tigers to replace  Jim Leyland  as manager of a
team that’s won three straight division titles and reached the
American League Championship Series the past three years.  Ausmus, 44, played 18 seasons in Major League Baseball from
1993 through 2010, including two stints with the Tigers. The
Dartmouth College graduate has no previous managerial experience
in the major or minor leagues.  Ausmus spent the past three years as the San Diego Padres’
special assistant of baseball operations. He succeeds Leyland,
who retired on Oct. 21 at the age of 68 after an eight-year
stint during which he led the Tigers to three 90-win seasons and
two World Series appearances.  “I’m well aware that you don’t generally get dropped into
a situation like I will be this coming season with a team like
the  Detroit Tigers  have,” Ausmus said yesterday during a news
conference. “Very rarely is there a managerial change with a
team that’s coming off a postseason appearance.”  Ausmus was selected over Tigers hitting coach Lloyd McClendon, Los Angeles Dodgers third base coach Tim Wallach and
Padres bench coach Rick Renteria.  “You could tell he was going to be a manager many years
ago,” Tigers General Manager Dave Dombrowski said of Ausmus,
who signed a three-year contract. “He actually provided more
leadership than many young players would when he was out there.
Being a catcher, he was always in charge of the operations on
the field.”  The Tigers were 93-69 this past season, finishing atop the
AL Central for the third consecutive year. Leyland, who had the
most wins among active MLB managers, retired two days after the
Tigers lost to the  Boston Red Sox  in the ALCS.  In 2012, Detroit was swept in four games in the  World
Series  by the  San Francisco Giants . Detroit fell to the  St.
Louis Cardinals  in a five-game World Series in 2006, Leyland’s
first season as manager.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  