-- Higher Swiss Leverage Ratio Could Mean End of Universal Bank
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2013-11-03T14:24:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-03/higher-swiss-leverage-ratio-could-mean-end-of-universal-bank.html
Swiss Finance Minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf said lenders including  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN)  may have to pull out of investment banking as she
called for their leverage ratios to be raised.  “Banks would have to consider whether to carry on with
investment banking or focus even more on asset management,”
Widmer-Schlumpf was quoted as saying in an  interview  with
Schweiz am Sonntag. Banks “must be organized in such a way that
the state isn’t ultimately held liable.”  The focus on leverage is the latest effort by the
government and financial watchdogs to prevent a repeat of
taxpayer-funded rescues of systemically important banks. UBS was
bailed out in 2008 after booking more than $57 billion in
writedowns and losses in the U.S. sub-prime lending crisis.
Regulators say the leverage ratio, now 4.5 percent, provides a
safeguard against risk-based valuation rules that allow banks to
weight assets depending on how they judge their safety.  “We must consider whether the capital-adequacy base
shouldn’t be strengthened further,” Widmer-Schlumpf was quoted
as saying by the newspaper. “Currently 6 percent to 10 percent
are being discussed” as a leverage ratio, she said, adding the
present level is “too low.”  Universal Bank  Both UBS, Switzerland’s biggest bank, and Credit Suisse,
the second-biggest, have relied on a “universal bank” model in
which asset management, wealth management and private banking
are combined with the riskier investment-banking business.
Still, both lenders have cut investment-banking jobs in recent
years, and UBS Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Ermotti  last year
decided to exit most debt-trading businesses at the investment
bank to boost returns.  UBS said last week it plans to set up a Swiss banking
subsidiary because the country’s too-big-to-fail regulations may
lead systemically important banks to change their legal
structure.  Raising the leverage ratio to 6% would mean UBS having to
raise a further 20 billion Swiss francs ($22 billion) in
capital, and Credit Suisse 33 billion francs, the newspaper
said, citing its own calculations. At 10% leverage, those
figures would rise to 62 billion francs and 81 billion francs
respectively, it said, adding it would be “downright
unthinkable” the lenders could achieve this.  UBS spokesman Samuel Brandner, speaking by telephone,
declined to comment, saying the leverage ratio issue is an
industry topic. Credit Suisse spokesman  Marc Dosch  also wouldn’t
comment. Widmer-Schlumpf’s office didn’t respond to calls
seeking a response.  UBS said on Oct. 29 it probably won’t be able to reach its
profitability goal in 2015 after the Swiss regulator demanded
the company hold more capital for risks related to litigation.  “I still think the banks should decide their business
areas for themselves,” Widmer-Schlumpf was quoted as saying by
Schweiz am Sonntag.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  