-- India’s Sensex Climbs to Record in Diwali Trading as Autos Gain
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-11-03T15:12:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-03/india-s-sensex-climbs-to-record-in-diwali-trading-as-autos-gain.html
Indian (SENSEX)  stocks advanced, sending the
benchmark index to a record in a shortened session. Automakers
and metal producers led the gains.  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , the owner of Jaguar Land Rover, rallied
to its all-time high.  Jindal Steel & Power Ltd. (JSP)  climbed for the
second day, sending a measure of metalmakers to an eight-month
high.  Indian Oil Corp. (IOCL)  surged the most in two months, leading
other state-owned refiners higher.  The 30-stock S&P BSE Sensex rose 0.2 percent to 21,239.36
in special Diwali trading in Mumbai, a fifth day of gains. The
gauge has increased 9.3 percent this year, the most among the
four largest  emerging markets , as more companies posted profits
that beat estimates and as monetary stimulus helped spur $2.9
billion of net foreign flows into shares last month.  “There been some pick-up in the economy and corporate
performance has been ahead of expectations,” Raamdeo Agrawal,
joint managing director of Mumbai-based Motilal Oswal Financial
Services Ltd., said on Bloomberg TV  India  today. “The downside
is limited and people who have stayed out of the market should
start investing.”  Net incomes at 16 of the 19 companies in the Sensex that
have posted results exceeded analyst estimates, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. About 47 percent of the 30 companies
in the index missed forecasts in the previous quarter.
Foreigners bought $290 million of local shares on Oct. 31, the
biggest net inflow since Sept. 20, data from the regulator
showed today.  Investors and traders made ceremonial purchases of stocks
in the 75-minute session until 7:30 p.m., marking Diwali, the
festival of lights and the start of the Hindu new year, Samvat
2070. The session known as Muhurat trading is held every year on
Diwali and deemed the most auspicious time to start investments.  Sun, TCS  The Sensex has risen 14 percent since last Diwali on Nov.
11, 2012, boosted by purchases by overseas investors. Shares of
21 of the 30 Sensex firms have risen since last year’s Muhurat
day, led by drugmaker  Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (SUNP)  and
 Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) , India’s biggest software
exporter. Power-equipment maker Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd.
and Jindal Steel Ltd. are the biggest losers over the period.  The Sensex traded at 14.1 times projected 12-month profits,
in line with its five-year average. The MSCI Emerging Markets
Index was valued at 10.5 times earnings. Overseas funds have
invested $16.3 billion into domestic shares in 2013, the most
among 10 Asian markets tracked by Bloomberg after Japan.  The CNX Nifty Index added 0.2 percent to 6,317.35. The
India VIX, which gauges the cost of protection against losses in
the Nifty, gained 4.6 percent.  Stock exchanges will remain closed tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  