-- Iran Burning $7 Billion to Lead Gas OPEC as It Faces Sanctions
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e   a n d   Y e g a n e h   S a l e h i
-- 2013-11-03T10:30:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-03/iran-burning-7-billion-seeks-to-lead-gas-opec-facing-u-s-lng.html
Iran will lead a club of the world’s
biggest natural gas exporters as its own shipments abroad are
hampered by U.S. and European Union sanctions that force the
country to burn off billions of dollars worth of the fuel.  Mohammad Hussein Adeli, a former central bank governor and
ambassador to  Canada  and the U.K., was elected to lead the  Gas
Exporting Countries Forum , holders of 60 percent of the world’s
reserves, Iran’s Oil Minister Bijan Namdar Zanganeh told
reporters at a meeting of the group’s 13 members in Tehran
today. Adeli will replace the current Secretary-General Leonid Bokhanovsky. Russia and  Libya  had also put up candidates.  U.S. and EU trade sanctions over  Iran’s nuclear program 
have cut the Persian nation’s crude exports, its largest revenue
source, by half since 2011 and are stifling projects to export
some of its gas reserves, the world’s largest. Iran is one of
three GECF members that are net importers as the group faces
increased competition from liquefied natural gas export projects
from the U.S. to  Australia .  “Iran is essentially absent from the regional and global
markets,” Tom James, a Dubai-based managing director of Navitas
Resources Ltd., an energy and commodity markets adviser, said
Oct. 30 by e-mail. “Iran could easily aim for a 10 percent
share of global gas trade.”  The country is scheduled to hold talks over its nuclear
program with the U.S., U.K.,  France , Germany, Russia and China
on Nov. 7-8 in Geneva in hopes of reaching an agreement that
loosens sanctions. Iran is willing to assent to more stringent
inspections as part of confidence-building measures intended to
defuse a decade-long standoff over its nuclear program, Deputy
Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi said last month.  Data Dispute  The country, the world’s third-largest gas producer, is a
net importer of the fuel, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical
Review, which last year rated its reserves above Russia’s in a
move denounced by Gazprom, the world’s biggest exporter.  Iran’s reserves “must give them an interest in what
happens with the price of gas longer term,” said  Neil Beveridge , a Hong Kong-based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein.
“They have the most at stake here after Russia in terms of what
happens to the industry.”  The nation burned off 11.4 billion cubic meters (400
billion cubic feet) of gas in 2011, the last year for which  data 
is available, according to the  World Bank ’s Global Gas Flaring
Reduction Public-Private Partnership. That would meet about a
quarter of demand in  South Korea , the world’s biggest buyer of
LNG after  Japan . The gas is worth about $7.3 billion on
southeast Asian spot LNG markets, according to Bloomberg
calculations using World Gas Intelligence  prices . Iran burns off
the gas produced alongside oil because it lacks the
infrastructure to process and transport it to markets.  LNG Projects  The sanctions have hampered development of Iran’s South
Pars, an extension of  Qatar ’s North Field that make it the
world’s largest gas reservoir, and drove away international
energy companies.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Repsol SA and Total SA abandoned
plans for LNG in Iran, depriving it of the buyers, money and
expertise needed to make and sell the fuel, which is chilled to
minus 162 degrees Celsius (minus 260 Fahrenheit) to shrink it to
1/600th of its original size for transport by tankers.  The Persian LNG project, from which Shell and Repsol
withdrew in 2010, had an annual capacity of 16.2 million metric
tons, or about 5 percent of the world’s current capacity. The
Pars LNG site abandoned by Total in 2009 had a planned capacity
of 10 million tons. That compares with 61.2 million tons under
construction in Australia and 39.55 million tons of U.S.
projects that have signed off-take agreements or are being
built, Bloomberg Industries data show.  Lone Project  Of the four LNG projects Iran originally envisioned, it’s
pushing ahead with one, a 10.5 million-ton-a-year facility known
as Iran LNG, at Tombak near the Gulf port of Assaluyeh. The
government is working alone on the $3.3 billion project after
suspending a contract with its Chinese partner, Mehr news agency
reported in September last year.  The relaxation of sanctions would encourage international
 oil companies  to reactivate Iranian LNG projects, Robin Mills,
head of consulting at Manaar Energy Consulting and Project
Management in Dubai, said in an Oct. 29 phone interview.  Nominating Adeli is “an interesting way for Iran to gain a
place at the table, to have a way to gain stature quickly and to
give it access to government and industry leaders on a global
scale,”  Zach Allen , president of PanEurasian Enterprises Ltd.,
a Raleigh, North Carolina-based tracker of LNG shipments, said
in an Oct. 30 e-mail. “The opportunities there are enormous for
both Iran and foreign investors.”  ‘Attractive’ Terms  Shell complies with sanctions on Iran, Sarah Bradley, a
company spokeswoman in  London , said by e-mail. Kristian Rix, a
Repsol spokesman in  Madrid , declined to comment. Total didn’t
return an e-mail seeking comment.  Attracting companies to invest in Iran’s gas industry would
be a challenge even without sanctions, Beveridge said. The
country has a history of nationalizing oil and gas assets and
would need to offer “attractive” terms to secure long-term
foreign investment, he said.  “I would be skeptical you would see anything big occur in
the near term,” Beveridge said.  Adeli, who was fired as deputy foreign minister in 2005 by
then President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , is founder of the  Ravand
Institute  for Economic and International Studies, which promotes
“global dialog and consensus-building,” according to its
website. He didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  “They seem to have picked a person accustomed to moving in
high places to accelerate Iran’s development of Iran’s most
abundant export resource, one that will generate significant
foreign exchange for them,” said Allen.  Gazprom Executive  Russia nominated Sergey Pankratov, a Gazprom deputy head of
department, to replace Bokhanovsky, Olga Golant, a spokeswoman
at the Energy Ministry, said by Nov. 1 by phone from Moscow.
Libya nominated Abdul-Rahman Ben Yezza, a former oil minister,
Ibrahim Al Awami, the oil ministry’s head of measurement and
inspection, said by phone earlier today.  The Doha-based GECF has sometimes been dubbed the gas OPEC
because of its similarity to the 53-year-old Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries. Unlike OPEC, GECF members meet to
discuss the market without coordinating world supplies to
control prices.  The GECF member states are Algeria, Bolivia, Egypt,
 Equatorial Guinea , Iran, Libya, Nigeria, Oman, Qatar, Russia,
Trinidad and Tobago,  United Arab Emirates  and Venezuela.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net ;
Yeganeh Salehi in Tehran at 
 yalehi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  