-- Mitsubishi Expands Into Asian Condos as Commodity Profits Slow
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r   a n d   I c h i r o   S u z u k i
-- 2013-11-03T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-03/mitsubishi-expands-into-asian-condos-as-commodity-profits-slow.html
Mitsubishi Corp. (8058) , Asia’s largest
trading company by market value, is expanding into property
development in  Southeast Asia  as the slowdown in  China  shrinks
profits from its commodity businesses.  The first project, starting next year, entails building an
apartment complex with more than 1,000 units in the  Philippines 
at a cost of 40 billion yen ($405 million), Masahiro Nagaoka,
head of township development and construction at Mitsubishi,
said in an interview in  Tokyo .  The trader has allied with local  Ayala Land Corp. (ALI)  for the
project and is looking for similar opportunities in Vietnam,
Indonesia and Myanmar.  “We see in those countries large populations, a pent-up
demand for housing, and a chance to enter markets that aren’t
yet crowded,” Nagaoka said. “We will look for local partners
in each country.”  The Tokyo-based trader is expanding outside of raw
materials businesses as Chinese demand for resources declines.
Mitsubishi in alliance with  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  is the world’s top
exporter of coking coal used to make steel. It said in May it
aims to double earnings from non-commodities by 2020 from 180
billion yen ($1.82 billion) last year.  Real estate falls under Mitsubishi’s industrial finance and
logistics division, which almost doubled net income to 25
billion yen in the fiscal year ended March 31. That came as
total profit dropped 20 percent on strikes at its Australian
coal mines and lower oil and metals prices.  Southeast Asia  Since broadening real estate and property development to
the U.S. and then China two years ago, the company sees
Southeast Asia as its next growth market, Nagaoka said.  “We feel we can take advantage of this situation,”
Nagaoka said.  Mitsubishi will take a 40 percent stake, the maximum for a
foreign entity in the Philippines property market, in Albeo Land
Corp., a unit of  Ayala Land . Construction and sale of apartments
will be done in several stages over eight years, Nagaoka said.  The target audience will be the local upper-middle income
population, defined as those with a  household income  between 3
million yen and 5 million yen a year, he said.  “Profits in the upper luxury segment are higher, but so is
the volatility,” he said. “We’re looking for more stable,
large-scale projects.”  Ayala Land  Construction will begin in the Ortigas area, the second
largest business district in the Philippine capital of Manila.
Mitsubishi and Ayala have rights to develop a 3.6-hectare (8.9-acre) site, Nagaoka said.  Mitsubishi has worked with Ayala Land’s parent company, the
Ayala Corp. conglomerate, since 1974, according to the Tokyo-based trader’s website. Mitsubishi now ranks as their second-largest shareholder with 10.5 percent of the conglomerate, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Mitsubishi is studying projects in Vietnam, Indonesia and
Myanmar and doesn’t exclude working with other partners in the
Philippines on new projects, Nagaoka said. It will look at
projects of 20,000 square meters and larger, he said.  “These countries don’t present us with direct synergies
with other Mitsubishi businesses, but they are good real estate
investments in their own right,” Nagaoka said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
 Ichiro Suzuki  in Tokyo at 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  