-- Kerry Says Improved Egypt Ties Depend on Democracy Moves
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2013-11-03T14:34:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-03/kerry-says-improved-egypt-ties-depend-on-democracy-moves.html
Secretary of State  John Kerry  made an
unannounced visit to  Egypt  today to press its military chief and
other officials to fulfill their promise to hold elections next
year.  Kerry’s six-hour stopover in the Egyptian capital was the
highest-level American visit since the army removed the elected,
Muslim-Brotherhood-backed government in July. U.S. President
 Barack Obama  responded to the military action by suspending
about $1.3 billion in military aid.  What happens in Egypt is “profoundly important” for the
region, and the U.S. is eager to support the interim
government’s promised transition to democracy, Kerry said in
Cairo. As long as Egyptian authorities move in that direction,
“I have no doubt about our ability to improve this
relationship,” he said.  The U.S. supports the aspirations of the Egyptian people as
authorities grapple with rewriting the constitution and planning
elections, Kerry said at a news conference with Foreign Minister
Nabil Fahmy.  “They have made this promise that they intend to continue
to move down that road,” Kerry said. “That is the foundation
for the continued cooperation between our countries.”  Kerry said the aid issue was discussed briefly during his
meeting with Fahmy, and that the two agreed that their nations’
relationship “should not be defined by assistance” because
there are “much bigger issues” to address.  Aid Suspended  Egypt is seeking to to revive an economy that’s been stuck
in the worst slowdown in two decades since the 2011 uprising
that toppled President  Hosni Mubarak . The turmoil that’s
persisted since has made it difficult for consecutive
governments to lure back tourists and investors.  “If the people of Egypt don’t begin to see the economy
take hold and improve, it will be hard for any government to
provide the kinds of improvements that people are looking for in
the quality of their lives,” Kerry said. “The government fully
understands that.”  The Egypt stop, a late addition to Kerry’s week-long visit
to the Mideast and North Africa, comes at a  politically charged
moment. The deposed Islamist President Mohamed Mursi is due to
go on trial tomorrow on charges he incited to murder and
violence during December protests between his supporters and
opponents, an event that may spark further clashes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Atlas in Cairo at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  