-- Obama’s ‘Dishonesty’ Could Slow Second Term, Romney Says
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-11-03T21:42:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-03/obama-s-fundamental-dishonesty-hurts-credibility-romney-says.html
President  Barack Obama  continued to
take political heat for the troubled debut of his signature
health plan while his advisers downplayed the significance of
the program’s low enrollment rate.  Mitt Romney , the Republican candidate who lost the 2012
presidential race to Democrat Obama, accused the president of
lying.  “He wasn’t telling the truth,” Romney said today on NBC’s
“Meet the Press.”  “That fundamental dishonesty has really -- has really put
in peril the whole foundation of his second term,” Romney said.
“I think it is rotting it away.”  During the presidential campaign and later, as Congress
debated the Affordable Health Care Act, Obama repeatedly said
that no one would be forced to give up their existing health
coverage under the law.  The statement “undermined the president’s credibility,”
Romney said.  Romney also tipped his hat to New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie , a potential Republican candidate for president in
2016.  “Chris could easily become our nominee and save our party
and help get this nation on the right track again,” Romney
said. “They don’t come better than Chris Christie.”  Christie, who is favored to win re-election on Nov. 5, is
“one of the very strongest lights of the  Republican Party ,”
Romney said. Christie, Senator Marc Rubio, former Florida
Governor Jeb Bush and Representative  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin ,
Romney’s former running mate, all are electable, he said.  Massachusetts Model  As governor of Massachusetts, Romney signed into law a 2006
state program used as a model for the federal law, known as
Obamacare. The Massachusetts plan also took time to get off the
ground, White House senior adviser  Dan Pfeiffer  said, enrolling
only 0.03 percent of the population in the first month.  “I can promise you that the first enrollment numbers,
which were released later this month, are not going to be what
we want them to be. There’s no question about that,” Pfeiffer
said on ABC’s “This Week” program. “The website hasn’t worked
the way we want it to work. But we take responsibility for that,
take responsibility for the errors, take responsibility for
fixing it.”  Between 5 million and 7 million people will need to enter
private health care exchanges for the system to work, said
Ezekiel Emanuel, vice provost at the  University of Pennsylvania 
and an architect of the Obama plan. Enrollment will accelerate
as the March deadline approaches, just as it did in
 Massachusetts , he said.  Signing Up  “You would expect at this stage of the game, from
everything we know about the exchanges, that not a lot of people
would sign up,” Emanuel said on “Fox News Sunday.” “People
will put off buying until the end.”  After appearances on the Hill last week, administration
officials are set to testify again this week about what went
wrong with the online health portal. The government’s health
care  website  tells visitors that online applications aren’t
available from 1 a.m. to 5 a.m. ET daily “while we make
improvements.”  Marilyn Tavenner , administrator of the Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services, which has overseen the building and
startup of federal online health exchanges, is scheduled to
appear before the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions
Committee Nov. 5.  Health and Human Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  is
set to appear the next day before the Senate Finance Committee.  Health Website  The flawed debut of the health website, with delays,
outages and software errors, is tarnishing Obama’s signature
legislative achievement and has complicated his second-term
agenda as his approval ratings drop.  Forty-eight percent of Americans said the government is
doing a “poor” job of implementing the health law, a Kaiser
Family Foundation poll found. The law itself is supported by
about 47 percent of respondents who said it should be kept or
expanded, compared with 37 percent who said they want it
repealed.  “I think government is inherently inept, because they
don’t work on a profit motive,” Senator  Rand Paul , a Republican
from  Kentucky , said on the “This Week” program. “I would say
that there are fundamental things government can do. But
government shouldn’t take on new opportunities or new things to
do when it’s not managing what it has now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey at   ahughey@bloomberg.net  