-- Toronto Mayor Ford Apologizes, Demands Video Release
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-11-03T23:23:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-03/toronto-mayor-ford-apologizes-demands-release-of-crack-video.html
Toronto Mayor Rob Ford apologized for
his “mistakes” and pledged to curb his drinking though he has
no plans to step down after police found a video in which he
appears to be smoking from a crack-cocaine pipe.  “I have made mistakes and all I can do right now is
apologize,” Ford said today on a weekly radio show he co-hosts
with his brother, Doug Ford. “I am not resigning. I am not
going away.”  Pressure is mounting for Ford, 44, to step down or take a
leave as head of  Canada ’s biggest city after Toronto police said
last week they located a video that had been the subject of
media reports earlier this year. Ford is in the video and is
seen inhaling from what appears to be glass crack-cocaine pipe,
the Toronto Star and other media reported.  Several city councilors and at least three Toronto
newspapers urged the mayor to step aside. Ford vowed today to
stay on and run for re-election next year.  The mayor also plans to get a personal driver, and said he
needs to curb his drinking in public. Ford admitted to being in
his office at 2 a.m. on St. Patrick’s Day with a half-empty
bottle of brandy and that he had been drinking during a street
party on Danforth Avenue in the city.  “I shouldn’t have got hammered on Danforth,” Ford said on
the radio show. “I’m not going to say I’m not going to drink
ever again. That’s not realistic.”  Ford also urged Toronto police to release the video, which
he said he hasn’t seen.  Star Report  “I want the Police Chief Bill Blair to release this video
for every single person in the city to see,” Ford said on his
show on Newstalk 1010. He said if police release the video he’ll
host a news conference to address what’s in it. Ford’s brother
Doug is also a city councilor in Toronto.  The mayor’s latest troubles began on May 16 when the
Toronto Star, a newspaper Ford has said held a vendetta against
him, reported it had seen a video that showed Ford smoking what
appeared to be  crack cocaine . U.S. website Gawker was the first
to break the news on the video and raised $200,000 in an
unsuccessful attempt to buy it.  Blair told reporters on Oct. 31 that Ford is in a video
recovered on Oct. 29 from a hard drive that had been seized as
part of a separate drug investigation.  “I think it’s fair to say the mayor does appear in the
video,” Blair said. There isn’t enough evidence in the video to
warrant criminal charges and police haven’t interviewed Ford, he
said at the time.  ‘First Step’  After Blair’s announcement, Ford told reporters he had no
reason to resign. The mayor said in May he doesn’t smoke crack
cocaine and the video didn’t exist.  In response to a question today on separate radio show
about whether he uses drugs or crack cocaine he said: “I’ve
said ten thousand times, no,” according to an audio clip of the
interview on the  radio  station’s website.  Police turned the video over as evidence to the courts,
which alone have the authority to decide how it’s handled, Mark
Pugash, a Toronto Police spokesman, said in an e-mail today.  Deputy Mayor Norm Kelly, who met with Ford yesterday to
raise the concerns of council, said he supports Ford’s
commitment to change and will watch to see if he lives up to it.  “It constitutes a good first step,” Kelly said in a phone
interview today, declining to specify what was discussed at the
meeting. “The first thing that has to be done by anyone who has
problems is acknowledge them and make a commitment to solving
them.”  ‘Reputational Hit’  Ford’s determination to remain mayor demonstrates his
unwillingness to accept accountability, as well as his sense of
entitlement and detachment from reality, Richard Leblanc, a York
University associate professor of law, governance and ethics,
said in a phone interview today.  “The normal lens of accountability is not there,” Leblanc
said, noting it will be difficult to force Ford to leave office,
absent a criminal conviction or charges. “It’s a reputational
hit for the country. This has gone viral.”  The Toronto Region Board of Trade, the chamber of commerce for the
city representing 12,000 members, called on Nov. 1 for the mayor
to take a leave of absence and to put the city first.  “Putting Toronto first means the Mayor must be able to
effectively address our city’s key priorities such as attracting
investment, jobs and talent from around the world,” Carol Wilding, board chief executive officer, said in a  statement .
“He must be the city’s marketer-in-chief.”  Scott Brownrigg, a board spokesman, declined in an e-mail
to comment further today.  Cadillac Escalade  A  500-page police document  filed in court was released
hours before the announcement by Blair. It detailed an
investigation that followed up on the initial news reports about
the video and showed evidence Ford met multiple times with
Alexander Lisi, who has been arrested on drug and extortion
charges. Ford has called Lisi a friend.  After one of their meetings, in which Lisi put a manila
envelope in Ford’s black Cadillac Escalade while Ford was inside
a gas station, Lisi employed “counter-surveillance maneuvers,”
driving quickly and dodging through traffic, police wrote in the
document.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  