-- Most Read on Bloomberg: Goldman, Shrinking Pay, FX Dealers, Fed
-- B y   A u d r e y   B a r k e r
-- 2013-11-03T04:49:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-03/most-read-on-bloomberg-goldman-shrinking-pay-fx-dealers-fed.html
The following list comprises the
most-read  Bloomberg News  reports from the past week.  STORIES  1. Goldman Pushes Junior Investment Bankers to Take Weekends Off  Oct. 29 (Bloomberg) -- Goldman Sachs Group Inc., this
year’s top merger adviser, is discouraging investment banking
analysts from working weekends as it overhauls demands placed on
entry-level employees and the support they receive.  2. Goldman Shrinking Pay Shows Wall Street Set for Bonus Gloom  Oct. 31 (Bloomberg) -- Goldman Sachs Group Inc., which set
Wall Street pay records when stocks surged and cheap credit
abounded in 2007, is again leading the industry as markets boom
anew: putting aside less money for staff and more for investors.  3. Citigroup, JPMorgan Said to Put Senior Currency Dealers on
Leave  Oct. 31 (Bloomberg) -- Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan Chase &
Co. are putting their top  London  currency dealers on leave after
regulators probing the manipulation of foreign-exchange rates
started investigating the traders’ use of an instant-message
group, three people with knowledge of the moves said.  4. Fed Keeps $85 Billion QE Pace Awaiting Signs Growth Picks Up  Oct. 30 (Bloomberg) -- The  Federal Reserve  decided to press
on with $85 billion in monthly bond purchases, saying it needs
to see more evidence that the economy will continue to improve.  5. Sally Dawson, Deutsche Bank Debt Executive in London, Dies at
39  Oct. 29 (Bloomberg) -- Sally Dawson, a Deutsche Bank AG
executive in London who specialized in high-yield and
distressed-debt sales, has died. She was 39.  6. Deutsche Bank Profit Slumps 94% on 1.2 Billion-Euro Charge  Oct. 29 (Bloomberg) -- Deutsche Bank AG,  Europe ’s largest
investment bank by revenue, said third-quarter profit slid 94
percent after it set aside 1.2 billion euros ($1.65 billion) to
cover potential legal costs and income from debt trading fell.  7. Insurance Policies Are Canceled in New Hurdle for Obamacare  Oct. 29 (Bloomberg) -- The Obamacare rollout is leading to
the cancellation of hundreds of thousands of health insurance
plans nationwide, contradicting President  Barack Obama ’s
repeated pledge that people who like their coverage can keep it.  8. Barclays Said to Suspend Chief FX Dealer Ashton Amid Probe  Nov. 1 (Bloomberg) -- Barclays Plc has suspended three
currency traders, including a chief dealer in London, amid a
probe into potential foreign-exchange manipulation, according to
a person with knowledge of the decision.  9. Citigroup Currency Staff Work London Evenings on Dodd-Frank  Oct. 28 (Bloomberg) -- For the foreign-exchange sales team
in Citigroup Inc.’s London office, Dodd-Frank regulations mean
extra hours at work.  10. U.S. Stocks Fall With Gold, Treasuries on Fed Policy
Statement  Oct. 30 (Bloomberg) -- The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell
for the first time in five days and gold and Treasuries dropped,
while the dollar reversed earlier declines, as the Federal
Reserve fueled speculation it will begin to slow the pace of
stimulus in coming months.  COLUMNS  1. Apple’s New IPad Is Slimmed Down, Speeded Up:  Rich
Jaroslovsky   Oct. 30 (Bloomberg) -- Apple calls the latest version of
its full-sized tablet the iPad Air, which is a better name than
“iPad Semi Mini.”  2. If Fed Can’t Get Good Numbers, Check the Leaders: Caroline
Baum  Oct. 31 (Bloomberg) -- Financial markets have become
increasingly dependent on the Federal Reserve. The Fed is
dependent on data (just in case you didn’t know). The data for
the next few months will be distorted by the federal government
shutdown during the first half of October. So what’s a
responsible policy maker or investor to do to get a handle on
how the  U.S. economy  is faring?  3.  China  Mimics the Worst of Abenomics at Worst Time: William
Pesek  Oct. 29 (Bloomberg) -- If imitation really is the greatest
form of flattery, Shinzo Abe should be thrilled the Chinese are
copying his “Abenomics” strategy to excite investors. The rest
of the world shouldn’t be.  4. Federal Reserve’s Bubble Alarm Is Stuck on Snooze:  Jonathan
Weil   Nov. 1 (Bloomberg) -- The Federal Reserve’s policy of
unrestrained quantitative easing has worked like rocket fuel for
U.S. stocks this year. Case in point: Rocket Fuel Inc.  5. Edward Snowden Has  Japan  Copying China’s Playbook: William
Pesek  Nov. 1 (Bloomberg) -- Shinzo Abe is so obsessed with China
eclipsing Japan on the global stage that he’s adopting some of
his neighbor’s policies. What else can we say about the secrecy
law the prime minister’s cabinet approved on Oct. 25, an act
that would do so much to undermine and constrain his people’s
right to know?  MULTIMEDIA  1. Rocker Lou Reed Dies at 71, Sales of Songs May Surge  Oct. 28 (Bloomberg) --  Lou Reed , a New York-based rock
musician who co-founded the  Velvet Underground  and wrote and
sang “Walk on the Wild Side,” has died at the age of 71. Mark
Beech reports with Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television’s
“The Pulse.”  2. Sebelius Apologizes for Obamacare Website Problems  Oct. 30 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. Health and Human Services
Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  testifies before the House Energy
and Commerce Committee in  Washington  about problems with
healthcare.gov, the federal health-insurance exchange website.  3. Red Sox Beat Cardinals 6-1 for Third World Series Title  Oct. 31 (Bloomberg) -- The  Boston Red Sox  won their third
World Series title in the last decade with a 6-1 defeat of the
 St. Louis Cardinals , wrapping up a championship at home for the
first time in 95 years.  4. New Apple IPad Is Slimmed Down, Speeded Up: Rich Jaroslovsky  Oct. 30 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg’s Rich Jaroslovsky reviews
Apple Inc.’s iPad Air, the latest version of its full-sized
tablet.  5. Cook Says Apple Is Exploring New Product Categories  Oct. 28 (Bloomberg) --  Tim Cook , chief executive officer of
Apple Inc., and  Peter Oppenheimer , chief financial officer,
speak on a teleconference about the company’s fiscal fourth-quarter results and first-quarter forecast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Audrey Barker in  New York  at 
 abarker3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Mirabella at 
 amirabella@bloomberg.net  