-- Most Read on Bloomberg in October: Stocks, Goldman, Bonus Gloom
-- B y   A u d r e y   B a r k e r
-- 2013-11-03T04:48:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-03/most-read-on-bloomberg-in-october-stocks-goldman-bonus-gloom.html
The following list comprises the
most-read Bloomberg News reports during October.  STORIES  1. Stocks Rally Most Since January, Bill Rates Fall on Debt
Talks  Oct. 10 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. stocks jumped the most since
January and Treasury bill rates tumbled as lawmakers moved
toward an agreement to raise the debt ceiling and avoid a
default. Gold slumped while oil rallied.  2. Goldman Pushes Junior Investment Bankers to Take Weekends Off  Oct. 29 (Bloomberg) -- Goldman Sachs Group Inc., this
year’s top merger adviser, is discouraging investment banking
analysts from working weekends as it overhauls demands placed on
entry-level employees and the support they receive.  3. Stocks Surge as VIX, Treasury Bill Rates Slide on U.S. Debt
Deal  Oct. 16 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. stocks surged while the
benchmark gauge of options prices slid the most in two years as
the Senate crafted a deal to end the government shutdown and
raise the debt ceiling. Treasury bill rates dropped while energy
led commodities higher and the yen fell against all major peers.  4. Goldman Shrinking Pay Shows Wall Street Set for Bonus Gloom  Oct. 31 (Bloomberg) -- Goldman Sachs Group Inc., which set
 Wall Street  pay records when stocks surged and cheap credit
abounded in 2007, is again leading the industry as markets boom
anew: putting aside less money for staff and more for investors.  5. Wall Street Hires Losers Turned Winners After College
Athletics  Oct. 16 (Bloomberg) -- Inside One Equity Partners are as
many as eight Olympians and even more of their world- or Olympic
gold medals, said managing partner Dick Cashin, who competed
internationally as a rower and now hires former college athletes
while recommending others do the same.  6. Meredith Whitney Winds Down Brokerage After Setting Up Fund  Oct. 10 (Bloomberg) --  Meredith Whitney , who built her own
Wall Street advisory firm after winning renown for a 2007 call
on Citigroup Inc., deregistered her brokerage unit following
three unprofitable years and is setting up an investment fund,
according to industry records.  7. A U.S. Default Seen as Catastrophe Dwarfing Lehman’s Demise  Oct. 7 (Bloomberg) -- Anyone who remembers the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. little more than five years ago
knows what a global financial disaster is. A U.S. government
default, just weeks away if Congress fails to raise the debt
ceiling as it now threatens to do, will be an economic calamity
like none the world has ever seen.  8. Ex-RBS Trader in U.K. Currency Probe Said to Be JPMorgan’s
Usher  Oct. 15 (Bloomberg) -- Richard Usher, JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s chief dealer in  London , wrote instant messages while he
was at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc that U.K. regulators are
scrutinizing as part of their investigation of alleged currency
manipulation, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  9. Senate Crafts Fiscal Deal Amid Signs Boehner Will Accept It  Oct. 16 (Bloomberg) -- The bipartisan leaders of the  U.S.
Senate  reached an agreement to end the fiscal impasse and to
increase U.S. borrowing authority. The Senate and House plan to
vote on it later today, and the White House press secretary said
President Barack Obama supports the deal.  10. RBS Said to Give Currency Trader’s Chats to FCA Amid Probe  Oct. 9 (Bloomberg) -- Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc has
handed over records of instant messages to U.K. regulators after
concluding a former currency trader’s communications with
counterparts at other firms may have been inappropriate,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  COLUMNS  1. John Boehner to  Tea Party : Shut Yourself Down:  Margaret
Carlson   Oct. 15 (Bloomberg) -- “Thank you, Mr. President. Signed,
 John Boehner .”  2. Why Wealthiest Are in the Taxman’s Crosshairs: A. Gary
Shilling  Oct. 23 (Bloomberg) -- After the recent recession, the
personal-taxes-to-personal-income ratio dropped well below the
12.3 percent long-run average, a casualty of the tax cuts,
depressed household incomes and the weak recovery. In
combination with depressed corporate tax collections and
increased federal spending -- especially in 2009, when outlays
equaled 6 percent of gross domestic product -- these forces
pushed the federal deficit to more than $1 trillion a year.  3. Apple’s New IPad Is Slimmed Down, Speeded Up:  Rich
Jaroslovsky   Oct. 30 (Bloomberg) -- Apple calls the latest version of
its full-sized tablet the iPad Air, which is a better name than
“iPad Semi Mini.”  4. Who Really Wins if JPMorgan Pays $13 Billion?: Jonathan Weil  Oct. 20 (Bloomberg) -- Memories of the fictional sports
announcer Biff Burns came to mind this weekend amid all of the
anonymously attributed news reports that the  Justice Department 
had reached a tentative settlement agreement with JPMorgan Chase
& Co. worth $13 billion.  5.   Steve Jobs  Never Worried About Debt Ceiling: Caroline Baum  Oct. 3 (Bloomberg) -- Everyone knows, or has heard the
cliche, that markets hate uncertainty. It’s also a given that
the future is always uncertain. How, then, do markets ever
manage to function -- or, for that matter, businesses, which
must make decisions today about investments that will pay off in
the future?  MULTIMEDIA  1. Draghi Says ECB Ready to Act to Control Money Markets  Oct. 2 (Bloomberg) -- European Central Bank President  Mario
Draghi  speaks at a news conference in Paris about euro-area
inflation, money-market rates, economic activity and the process
of an asset-quality review.  2. Drum-O’Neill Seeks College Athletes for Wall Street  Oct. 16 (Bloomberg) -- Carly Drum-O’Neill, founder of Drum
Associates’ unit devoted exclusively to current and former
college athletes, talks about the executive search firm’s
efforts to find accomplished athletes for entry-level positions
on Wall Street.  3. Obama Warns of Deep Recession If Debt Limit Not Raised  Oct. 8 (Bloomberg) -- President  Barack Obama  speaks about
the U.S. government shutdown and federal debt ceiling.  4. Bitcoin Price Swings as Startups Draw Regulators’ Glare  Oct. 3 (Bloomberg) -- Bitcoin, the digital currency, has
gained prominence this year for its wild price swings and for
piquing the interest of regulators from  New York  to  Germany .
Bloomberg’s Stephanie Baker reports.  5. Maserati’s Quattroporte Sedan Takes On Audi, Mercedes  Oct. 10 (Bloomberg) -- The sixth generation Maserati
Quattroporte sedan is seen in a promotional video from Maserati
SpA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Audrey Barker in New York at 
 abarker3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Mirabella at 
 amirabella@bloomberg.net  