-- Park Calls for Ending ’Vicious Cycle’ of Appeasing North Korea
-- B y   S a m   K i m
-- 2013-11-03T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-03/park-calls-for-ending-vicious-cycle-of-appeasing-north-korea.html
South Korean President Park Geun Hye
called for ending the “vicious cycle” of rewarding North
Korean provocations, saying it complicates negotiations and
emboldens the Kim Jong Un regime to advance its nuclear program.  “We cannot repeat the vicious cycle of the past where
North Korea’s nuke threats and provocations were met with
rewards and coddling,” she told  BBC World News  in an interview
that aired today. “Otherwise, North Korea will continue to
further advance its nuclear capability.”  Park granted the interview before departing on her first
European visit since coming to power in February as she seeks to
promote trade and lobby for support in pressuring North Korea to
stop developing nuclear arms before returning to international
disarmament talks. Park will meet French President Francois
Hollande in Paris today, address the U.K. Parliament and hold
talks with Prime Minister David Cameron from tomorrow, and then
travel to Brussels to meet with top European Union officials.  Park would be willing to meet with North Korean leader Kim
Jong Un if she thought a summit could produce concrete results,
she told Le Figaro in an interview published yesterday.  The European trip comes after visits to the U.S.,  China  and
 Vietnam , while Park said it is still too soon to talk about
visiting Japan. She called Japan an “important partner,” still
certain aspects of Japan’s militant past, including the issue
of Korean women forced into sexual servitude for Japanese troops 
during World War II, continue to complicate relations. “Perhaps 
it would be better not to” hold a summit with Japanese Prime 
Minister Shinzo Abe until more progress is made.  Comfort Women  “These are women who have spent their blossoming years in
hardship and suffering, and spent the rest of their life in
ruins,” she said. “If Japan continues to stick to the same
historical perceptions and repeat their past comments, then what
purpose would a summit serve?”  South Korea has called on the Japanese government to
compensate the comfort women.  Japan  apologized in 1993 and set
up a compensation fund that some victims rejected because it was
funded through private contributions.  South Korea and Japan have held two rounds of foreign
ministers’ talks since Park took office in February. A dispute
surrounding islets claimed by both countries has also strained
ties.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Kim in Seoul at 
 skim609@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  