-- U.K. Outlook Raised by CBI as Construction Strengthens: Economy
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   E s h e   N e l s o n
-- 2013-11-04T11:05:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-03/u-k-growth-forecasts-raised-by-cbi-as-recovery-builds-momentum.html
The  Confederation of British Industry 
raised its forecasts for U.K.  economic growth  and said business
investment and trade will aid the recovery starting next year.  The business lobby sees the economy expanding 1.4 percent
this year and 2.4 percent in 2014, it said in a quarterly
report. That’s up from 1.2 percent and 2.3 percent in August.
The projections came as a survey from Markit Economics showed
 construction  unexpectedly strengthened in October to the fastest
rate in six years, led by homebuilding.  “The recovery won’t be spectacular, just slow and steady,
but appears more solid and better-rooted,” CBI Director-General
 John Cridland  said. “We’re also expecting business investment
to pick up over the next two years and beyond, and net trade
will begin to make a stronger contribution to growth.”  U.K economic growth  accelerated to its fastest pace in more
than three years in the third quarter as the recovery continued
across all main industries. The Bank of England may raise its
forecasts this month and bring forward its projection for when
unemployment will reach a 7 percent threshold that will prompt
policy makers to consider an interest-rate increase.  BOE Governor  Mark Carney  has said he plans to keep the
 benchmark rate  at a record low at least until joblessness falls
to that level, which the central bank doesn’t see happening
until late 2016. The CBI, which holds its annual conference in
 London  today, said unemployment will fall to 7.2 percent by the
end of 2015 from its current 7.7 percent.  Construction Growth  Markit said its index of construction activity rose to 59.4
in October from 58.9 in September. The median forecast of 15
economists was for a decline to 58.7. The gauge has been above
the 50 level that divides expansion from contraction since May.  The improvement boosted hiring, with payrolls rising at the
fastest pace in six years, Markit said. While housing growth
cooled from its fastest in almost 10 years, it remained the
strongest sector. Civil engineering and commercial activity were
“robust,” it said.  Homebuilder  Bellway Plc (BWY)  said on Oct. 15 that its annual
profit rose 37 percent as it benefited from the government’s
Help to Buy initiative. The measure is aimed at helping people
to buy homes with small deposits, and Bellway said that demand
“remains strong in most areas of the country.”  The government program is also boosting  house prices  and
has faced criticism that it may fuel a property bubble.
 Nationwide Building Society  said on Oct. 31 that values rose 1
percent in October from the previous month and were up 5.8
percent from a year earlier.  Manufacturing Growth  U.K. manufacturing  expanded for a seventh month in October
as overseas demand grew, Markit said last week. Services also
expanded last month, economists said before a report tomorrow.
An index of activity slipped to 60 from 60.3 in September,
according to the median of 30 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Two days later, the  Bank of England  will announce its
latest monetary-policy decision. It will keep the benchmark rate
at 0.5 percent, while the bond-purchase plan will stay at 375
billion pounds ($599 billion), according to Bloomberg surveys.  The CBI said GDP growth will slow to 0.5 percent in the
current quarter after expansion of 0.8 percent in the three
months through September partly due to the “volatility of trade
and investment data.” Annual growth will accelerate to 2.6
percent in 2015 as household disposable income and business and
housing investment increase, it said.  “Our forecast is for the  unemployment rate  to fall back
only gradually, as hours worked increase and productivity begins
to recover,” the CBI said. “Our central expectation is that
 interest rates  will remain on hold out to the end of 2015.”  Separately, 37 percent of companies surveyed in Ernst &
Young’s U.K. capital confidence barometer published today said
they expect to make acquisitions in the next 12 months, compared
with 26 percent a year ago. Ernst & Young said it surveyed 1,600
senior executives for the bi-annual poll.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Eshe Nelson in London at 
 enelson32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  