-- U.S. Says Japan Signing Liability Pact Would Aid Nuclear Cleanup
-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n
-- 2013-11-03T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-03/u-s-says-japan-signing-liability-pact-would-aid-nuclear-cleanup.html
Japan  will receive international help
with the cleanup at the Fukushima atomic station once it joins
an existing treaty that defines liability for accidents at
nuclear plants, U.S. Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz said.  The treaty, known as the Convention on Supplementary
Compensation for Nuclear Damage, assigns accident liability to
plant operators rather than equipment and technology vendors,
Moniz said in a Nov. 2 interview in Tokyo. The treaty includes
setting up a fund for victims of nuclear accidents and a
standard for compensation claims.  Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, Trade Minister
Toshimitsu Motegi and other officials showed an “eagerness”
during meetings last week for expertise from abroad to
decommission the Fukushima plant, Moniz said. Such help will be
easier to secure once Japan ratifies the treaty, he said.  “As one gets into the real work, then these liability
conventions become quite important,” Moniz said. “Certainly
Prime Minster Abe and Minster Motegi both emphasize that the
importance of moving on this in 2014 is to a large extent driven
by their openness and their desire to get as much international
help as they can.”  Moniz was in Japan to discuss cooperation on the Fukushima
cleanup and the country’s plans to ratify the treaty. His visit
coincided with calls for a larger government role in the
response to the 2011 disaster at  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) ’s
plant. The station is the site of the worst nuclear accident
since Chernobyl and in recent months has been hit by weekly
reports of radioactive water leaks and accidents.  Compensation Claims  The Compensation for Nuclear Damage treaty was adopted in
1997 under the  International Atomic Energy Agency  and had 16
signatories as of June 24 this year, including the U.S.,  India 
and  Italy .  At least five signatories must  ratify  the treaty to enact
it. So far, the U.S., Romania, Morocco and  Argentina  have
ratified. So Japan joining would bring it into force, Moniz
said.  Legislation ratifying the convention could be introduced to
parliament early next year, Foreign Minister Fumio Kishida told
reporters on Nov. 1, Kyodo news reported.  Under the pact, a company such a  Irvine , California-based
Kurion Inc., which possesses technology for removing the
radioactive isotope tritium from contaminated water, could
deploy its technology at the Fukushima plant, Moniz said.  Liability would rest with Tepco, as the plant’s operator is
known, he said.  Tritium Removal  Tritium is among the contaminants found in hundreds of
thousands of tons of water stored in more than 1,000 tanks at
the site. Those levels are rising at a rate of 400 tons a day as
groundwater seeping into basements mixes with cooling water that
has been in contact with highly radioactive melted reactor
cores.  While Tepco has had treatment systems in place for removing
the contaminant cesium since shortly after the March 2011
disaster at the plant and is testing a filter to remove the
radioactive element strontium, it has no means of removing
tritium.  Other companies that could assist Tepco are builders that
have worked at U.S. nuclear sites and specialists in cleaning
groundwater and controlling its flow, Moniz said without
identifying particular businesses.  Moniz said the liability pact has so far not been needed by
foreign companies because there’s been little direct engagement
between such businesses and Tepco, although some U.S. entities
have helped the utility in a consultative role.  Research Centers  A scientist at the Savanna River National Laboratory under
the Energy Department is helping Japan’s  International
Research Institute for Nuclear Decommissioning  vet proposals
from international entities seeking participation in the plant’s
decommissioning and cleanup, he said  Tepco is holding talks with the Savanna River Laboratory
and the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, another Energy
Department research center, on getting help with groundwater
management, removing fuel debris and other areas, the utility
said in a Nov. 1  statement .  Tepco engineers have also visited the site of the Hanford
Engineer Works weapons lab in Washington state, where the Energy
Department has spent more than $16 billion since 1989 on
cleanups, to evaluate whether methods used here could be applied
at Fukushima.  “With the openness, I would say the eagerness, expressed
by the Prime Minister and by a variety of other government
officials to have international help, we see our laboratories
certainly continuing to contribute and we see our companies
being enabled to come in as well,” Moniz said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Adelman in  Tokyo  at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  