-- Mucho Macho Man Wins North America’s Richest Horse Race by Nose
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-11-03T04:02:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-03/mucho-macho-man-wins-north-america-s-richest-thoroughbred-race.html
Mucho Macho Man won a three-way duel
to the finish line by a nose to capture the 30th running of the
$5 million Breeders’ Cup Classic,  North America ’s richest
thoroughbred race.  The six-year-old winner, who ran second in last year’s
Classic, covered the 1 ¼ miles yesterday in 2:00.72, just ahead
of second-place finisher Will Take Charge. Declaration of War, a
European competitor making his debut on a dirt track, was a head
back in third.  Mucho Macho Man doubled his lifetime earnings to nearly
$5.4 million with the first-place purse of $2.75 million.  Favorite Game On Dude, setting the pace at the outset,
faded to finish ninth.  Jockey Gary Stevens, 50, who came out of retirement after
seven years, won his first Classic as he pushed Mucho Macho Man
to the front in the 11-horse field.  “It’s just a dream come true,” Stevens said. “One thing
missing from my resume was the  Breeders’ Cup Classic . It’s the
icing on the cake of my career.”  Stevens is the only jockey to ride in the first Breeders’
Cup at Hollywood Park in 1984 and this year’s 30th race.  Mucho Macho Man returned $10, $4.60 and $3.60 on a $2 bet,
while three-year-old Will Take Charge paid $7.20 and $4.80 and
four-year-old Declaration of War returned $4.80.  Velazquez Hurt  “I’m just so excited and very blessed to be here today,”
trainer Kathy Ritvo, a heart-transplant survivor who became the
first female trainer of a Classic winner, said in a televised
interview. “When Gary shook his stick, I thought we had it.”  Earlier in the day, veteran jockey  John Velazquez , who had
been slated to ride Palace Malice in the Classic, underwent
surgery to remove his spleen when he was diagnosed with internal
bleeding, said his agent Angel Cordero.  The 41-year-old jockey was thrown from Secret Compass in
the $2 million Juvenile Fillies when the thoroughbred fell with
three furlongs remaining in the 1 1/16th-mile race. His mount,
trained by Hall of Famer  Bob Baffert , suffered a fractured leg
and was euthanized.  Velazquez was replaced by Jose Lezcano on reigning Horse of
the Year Wise Dan who defended his title in the $2 million Mile.  Two-year-old New Year’s Day cemented his position as the
early favorite for the  Kentucky Derby , the first leg of
thoroughbred racing’s Triple Crown, when the colt overtook
favorite  Havana  to win the $2 million Breeders’ Cup Juvenile by
1¼ lengths.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  