-- Mursi Insists He’s President While Refusing to Enter Plea
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2013-11-04T18:01:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-03/violence-threatens-in-egypt-as-mursi-is-tried-in-divided-nation.html
Egypt ’s former President Mohamed Mursi went on trial today and said his overthrow was a military
coup and he remains the country’s legitimate leader.  “The coup is treason,” Mursi, who hadn’t been seen in
public since his July 3 ouster, told the court in Cairo. “I’m
the president of the republic and I’m here against my will.” He
refused to enter a plea on charges of inciting violence that led
to the killing of protesters last year, and challenged the
court’s jurisdiction to try him.  Chants and interruptions by Mursi and his 14 co-defendants
frequently drowned out proceedings before the court adjourned
the hearing until Jan. 8, after lawyers asked for a chance to
review the documents.  Violence has escalated since the military’s overthrow of
Mursi, Egypt’s first freely elected civilian leader. A crackdown
on his Muslim Brotherhood backers has left hundreds dead and
hundreds more in jail amid continued protests against the army
intervention and regular attacks by militants.  The ex-president’s stance in court may encourage supporters
to “maintain their general defiance,” said Yasser el-Shimy, a
Cairo-based analyst for the  International Crisis Group . It will
“send a message to his supporters that he remains
uncompromising” and is ready to sacrifice as much as they are.  Undisclosed Location  Mursi was flown by helicopter from an undisclosed location
to the heavily secured court in a police academy on Cairo’s
outskirts. If convicted, he could face the death penalty,
according to state-run newspaper Al-Ahram.  Mursi’s predecessor,  Hosni Mubarak , who was forced from
power in 2011, is being re-tried at the same venue. In contrast
to Mubarak, who was wheeled into his first hearing on a hospital
bed and spoke little in court, Mursi was openly defiant.  State television aired snippets of the trial, showing him
arriving wearing a dark suit and no tie. Inside, he stood at the
front of the defendants’ cage, while many of his co-defendants
stood with their backs to the court.  “Mursi was strong and solid, he deserved to be president
of this country,” Galal El-Etr, a 43-year-old businessman, said
outside the court. “His strength will strengthen the protesters
in the streets.”  Inside the chamber, some people were chanting for the
defendants to be executed while Mursi’s supporters saluted “the
steadfastness of the president.”  ‘More Legitimate’  Egypt’s army and the interim government it supports are
“counting on Mursi’s trial to seem more legitimate” and to
further demonize his one-year administration, said Ziad Akl, a
researcher at the Ahram Center for Political and Strategic
Studies in Cairo. The army says its toppling of the elected
president was an expression of the people’s will after days of
protests against him.  The court area was largely sealed off, and only people with
special permits were allowed to approach. Checkpoints were set
up on the highway alongside the facility and military personnel
carriers were posted outside. Beyond the barriers, several dozen
Mursi supporters chanted against the army and its chief, Defense
Minister Abdelfatah al-Seesi.  Egypt’s benchmark  stock index  rose 0.6 percent, extending
gains since Mursi’s overthrow to 25 percent. The yield on
Eurobonds due in 2020, which approached 11 percent on July 3,
rose two basis points to 7.24 percent.  ‘Darkest Days’  The interim government has pledged to hold elections next
year. U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry , who visited Cairo
yesterday, urged the country’s leaders to fulfill that promise.
The U.S., a longtime ally and financial backer of Egypt’s army,
has cut some aid since it toppled Mursi.  The charges against Mursi date back to violence that
erupted during protests outside the Ittihadiya palace in Cairo
last year. Some of the defendants are accused of torturing
demonstrators.  Sahar Abdel-Mohsen said she was there and described it as
“one of the darkest days of my life.”  “Mursi killed innocent people, silenced the voice of
opposition just like any dictator,” said the architect, who
said she had voted for him.  Mursi’s supporters question whether he’ll get a fair trial
from a judicial system that was frequently at loggerheads with
him during his year in office. The government said the former
president is being tried on criminal charges not political ones
and “enjoys his full legal rights.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  