-- Westpac Second-Half Profit Rises 5% on Lower Bad-Debt Charge
-- B y   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m
-- 2013-11-04T06:42:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-03/westpac-posts-8-percent-profit-rise-on-lower-bad-debt-charges.html
  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) ,  Australia ’s
second-biggest lender by market value, said second-half cash
earnings rose 5 percent to a record as bad-debt charges dropped.  Cash profit , which excludes one-time items, increased to
A$3.57 billion ($3.37 billion) in the six months to Sept. 30
from A$3.4 billion a year earlier, the Sydney-based lender said
in a statement today. That met the A$3.56 billion median
 estimate  of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Net income rose
to A$3.5 billion from A$3 billion.  Chief Executive Officer Gail Kelly has focused on
profitability of lending operations as credit growth in the
nation nears the slowest pace on record. Westpac, which charges
borrowers the most for mortgages among the largest Australian
banks, has ceded market share to competitors in the past year.  “The revenue and margins were weaker than expected,” John Buonaccorsi, a Sydney-based analyst at CIMB Group Holdings Bhd.,
said by phone. “Home lending is slowly picking up. Westpac is
overweight New South Wales state, where the action is now, so
they could potentially gain, although the lending recovery is
still weak.”  The bank boosted its final  dividend  to 88 Australian cents
a share from 84 cents a year earlier and announced a special
dividend of 10 cents a share. That met the median estimate of
nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg for a dividend of 88 cents
and a special dividend of 10 cents.  Westpac  shares  closed 1.2 percent lower at A$34.16 in
Sydney, trimming gains for the year to 31 percent. The benchmark
S&P/ASX 200  Index (AS51)  fell 0.4 percent today.  Bad Debt  Charges for bad debts in the second half decreased to A$409
million from A$604 million a year earlier, while the charges for
the full year were down 30 percent to A$847 million, the lender
said.  “Westpac has the second-strongest bad debt provision cover
among the Australian banks,” said Buonaccorsi. “This time
around they didn’t set aside much for new impairments and wrote
back some of the prior-year provisions.”  Cash profit for the 12 months ended Sept. 30 climbed to
A$7.1 billion from A$6.6 billion a year earlier, Westpac said.
That met the median estimate of A$7.08 billion. Net income rose
14 percent to A$6.82 billion from A$5.97 billion.  Westpac’s Australian Financial Services unit, which
includes its retail and business banking operations, posted a 12
percent rise in full-year cash profit, while its institutional
bank expanded profit by 11 percent. Westpac is the country’s
second-largest mortgage lender behind  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia .  Credit Demand  “I am encouraged by signs of improved confidence, which we
expect to lead to increased lending,” Kelly said on a
conference call today. “Over the last 18 months, we have
prioritized strength and return. We are tilting a bit more to
growth as we go into the 2014 year.”  Outstanding mortgages in the nation were expected to rise
5.5 percent in the coming year, while business lending may
increase by 2 percent to 3 percent next year, she said.  Australian mortgages expanded 4.8 percent in the year to
September to the highest level since August 2012, while business
credit grew 1.1 percent, central bank data show. Westpac’s
Australian  mortgages  climbed 4 percent in the year.  Demand for mortgages is increasing after the central bank
dropped rates by 225 basis points since late 2011 to a record
2.5 percent and banks cut  mortgage rates  to a four-year low.
 House prices  in the eight capital cities climbed an average 7.6
percent in the September quarter from a year earlier, government
data showed today.  Cost Cuts  The bank’s cash net-interest margin, a measure of lending
profitability, dropped 2 basis points to 2.14 percent in the
full year. Deposits climbed 10 percent from a year earlier, out
pacing lending growth of 4 percent and increasing its deposit-to-loan ratio to 71.4 percent.  Westpac’s employee count fell to 35,597 from 35,675 a year
earlier, the lender said. Australian banks are focusing on cost
cuts to maintain profits. The bank on Oct. 18 said it planned to
cut about 80 jobs next year as part of its outsourcing drive.  The bank’s expense-to-income ratio was 40.9 percent in the
year, compared with 40.8 percent in the previous year, which
Westpac said was a sector-low rate.  Australia’s major banks have a cost-to-income ratio of
40–45 percent, which is at the low end of the range of their
peers globally, according to the RBA.  Westpac’s core Tier 1  capital  ratio, a measure of its
ability to absorb future losses, was 9.1 percent under the local
regulator’s version of Basel III guidelines, compared with 8.4
percent as of June 30.  Westpac’s results follow record earnings posted by its
competitors.  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  posted
Oct. 29 a 13 percent increase in second-half profit, while
National Australia Bank Ltd. reported a 16 percent gain Nov. 1.
Commonwealth Bank announces first-quarter earnings on Nov. 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  