-- World Champion Sebastian Vettel Wins Abu Dhabi Grand Prix
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-11-03T15:31:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-03/world-champion-sebastian-vettel-wins-abu-dhabi-grand-prix.html
World champion Sebastian Vettel of
Red Bull won the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix today, equaling  Michael
Schumacher ’s seven consecutive wins in a Formula One season.  The victory emphasized Vettel’s dominance of Formula One a
week after he clinched a fourth straight drivers’ title. His
teammate Mark Webber was second today and  Nico Rosberg  of
Mercedes came third in the 55-lap day-night race at the Yas
Marina circuit.  Vettel, starting second on the grid, went past pole-sitter
Webber at the start and never looked in danger of surrendering
the lead, finishing more than 30 seconds ahead of his teammate.  Rosberg also got past Webber at the start but the
Australian fought back to claim second spot.  Rosberg managed to overhaul Lotus’s  Romain Grosjean  to
claim third place by the finish. Then came Ferrari’s  Fernando
Alonso , Paul Di Resta of  Force India  and Lewis Hamilton of
Mercedes. Ferrari’s Felipe Massa, Sergio Perez of McLaren and
Adrian Sutil of Force India rounded out the 10 scoring
positions.  Lotus’s Kimi Raikkonen lost ground on Alonso in the race
for second place in the standings. He started last after being
disqualified in qualifying and exited the race in the first lap
with a broken suspension.  Vettel has 347 points, Alonso 217, Raikkonen 183 and
Hamilton 175.  Red Bull has already clinched the constructors event for a
fourth straight year. It has 513 points, with Mercedes on 334
and Ferrari 323.  Vettel, 26, last week became the youngest driver to win
four straight drivers’ titles, a feat achieved previously by his
German compatriot Schumacher and  Argentina ’s Juan Manuel Fangio.
Vettel has won 11 of the 17 races so far this season, and has 37
career wins.  Schumacher achieved seven straight wins in the 2004 season.  The next event, the 18th on the 19-race calendar, is the
U.S. Grand Prix at Austin on Nov. 17.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  