-- World Bank Sees Ways to Slow Arctic Melt in Kitchen, Coal Mines
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-11-03T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-03/world-bank-sees-ways-to-slow-arctic-melt-in-kitchen-coal-mines.html
Replacing cook stoves, curbing crop
fires and capturing methane when extracting fossil fuels would
help slow ice melting from the Arctic to the Himalayas and
decrease risks of flooding, the  World Bank  said.  Global warming is accelerating the thawing of glaciers,
snow caps and permafrost, which will in turn release carbon
dioxide and methane they held into the atmosphere, the bank
said. Measures to fight pollution today can hold back these
changes while improving the health of millions of people,
according to the report.  “Efforts to reduce black carbon and methane cannot replace
long-term mitigation of CO2, which requires a global transition
to a low-carbon, highly energy-efficient economy,”  Rachel Kyte, the World Bank’s vice president for sustainable
development, wrote in a foreword to the report. “By addressing
short-lived climate pollutants, however, we will be reaping some
significant climate benefits while at the same time meeting
human development needs now.”  The study is the latest alert by the Washington-based bank
against the risks associated with global warming as it moves
away from financing coal-fired  power plants  under President Jim Yong Kim. It was released a week before envoys from 190
countries start meeting in Warsaw to continue talks for a new
climate change treaty that they aim to broker by 2015.  “Both the Arctic and high mountain regions hold large
amounts of methane and carbon dioxide in frozen form, from as
far back as 400,000 years ago,” according to the report.
“Methane in particular is an extremely potent near-term warming
agent, and sudden releases could speed warming on a global scale
that would be measured in decades.”  Methane Release  It’s already happening, with large bubbles of methane
hydrates appearing off the coast of Siberia in 2010 and 2011,
according to the report, which was co-written by the
International Cryosphere Climate Initiative, a non-profit  group 
that defines its goal as making the melting of snow and ice
regions part of the climate debate.  The bank’s goal is to have as many of its loans as possible
focusing on activities that help reduce short-lived climate
pollutants, Kyte wrote.  Cooking with fan-assisted or ethanol-fueled stoves could
mitigate the warming impact on polar and mountain regions. It
would also bring down the death toll due to exposure to cooking
smoke, which at 4 million people a year is more than HIV/AIDS,
malaria and tuberculosis combined, according to the report.  Field Fires  The measure is one of 14 suggested in the report, which if
all implemented by 2030 could slow warming in the Arctic by more
than a full degree by 2050, according to the authors. Halving
open-field and forest burning could also have a dual effect and
decrease deaths to air pollution by 190,000 annually, according
to the findings.  “Human activity causes almost all open-field and forest
fires, either intentionally or by accident,” according to the
study. “Effective no-burn alternatives exist for most
agricultural sector use of fire, and results in this report
indicate that up to 90 percent reductions may be possible in
some regions.”  Methane is often emitted during during the fossil fuel
mining process, especially for coal, according to the study,
which recommends capturing the gas to use it, for instance, as
energy source.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  