-- ‘Cabin’ Slasher’s Fresh Meat; ‘Lazhar’; ‘Stooges’: Movies
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s   a n d   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-04-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/-cabin-slasher-s-fresh-meat-lazhar-stooges-movies.html
Five good-looking college kids head
off to a creepy, secluded cabin.  You think you’ve seen  “The Cabin in the Woods”  before.
Wait.  In what would pass for a decent final twist in an M. Night Shyamalan film, the deep-forest lodging is actually a high-tech
marvel operated from a remote, CIA-like headquarters by a
battalion of buttoned-down bureaucrats. Every zombie, ghost and
hillbilly maniac is summoned to life with the push of a button.  That’s no spoiler. First-time director Drew Goddard (co-
writer of  “Cloverfield” ), working from a script he wrote with
Joss Whedon ( “Buffy the Vampire Slayer” ), establishes early on
that “Cabin” is going to be an elaborate exercise in meta.  As the slasher storyline plays out -- remote-controlled
zombies are no less deadly than the traditional kind -- the
scientists (or are they?) observe everything on monitors,
controlling each bump in the night and jovially placing bets on
the bloody outcomes.  “Cabin” then spins into increasingly bizarre territory --
my summary gives away nothing of the monsters or surprises to
come. The quirky, self-knowing satire is almost too effective --
“Cabin” is scary, but not so much as it is clever.  Bloody Business  Richard Jenkins and Bradley Whitford are deadpan perfection
as the top-level office drones who approach their bloody
business like so much keypunch operating. Kristen Connolly,
Chris Hemsworth, Anna Hutchison, Fran Kranz and Jesse Williams
are fine as the students, even when upstaged by more than a few
unexpected arrivals.  “The Cabin in the Woods,” from Lionsgate, is playing
across the U.S. Rating: *** (Evans)  ‘Monsieur Lazhar’  At the start of  “Monsieur Lazhar,”  two Montreal
schoolchildren find their teacher slowly swinging from a ceiling
pipe.  Soon after that, an Algerian refugee named Bashir Lazhar
learns about the suicide and applies for the post, claiming to
be a teacher when in fact he’s not; he just needs work. Only,
after a few weeks in the classroom, he knows, and we know, that
he is.  “Monsieur Lazhar” reminds us that teaching is a gift some
people are born with. The movie gently mocks Bashir as he tries
to wing it in front of his new class. The kids -- they’re around
11 -- are flabbergasted when he gives them dictation from
Balzac, as his own teachers gave him.  But astonishment may be just what they need after the
trauma of the suicide. Old-fashioned Bashir is such a change
from the cheerful progressivism they’re used to, and so
demanding where they’ve been coddled, that at first they’re
shocked. Then they perk up.  The director, Philippe Falardeau, is generous with his
characters (except for a pair of chilly parents in one short
scene). Both the children he’s cast and the adults blossom in
front of the camera the way Bashir’s kids do.  “Monsieur Lazhar” was  Canada ’s entry at the Oscars this
year. It lost to  “A Separation” ; it doesn’t have anything like
the intensity of the Iranian picture. Yet it’s from the same
artistic universe -- one where you don’t register the camera or
the writing because you’re pulled in so quickly that you forget
you’re watching a movie.  It’s a modest drama, neither pushy nor sentimental, and it
doesn’t offer a lot to look at beyond the elementary school
where most of it is set, a charmless, functional building that
could be anywhere. But when one little girl gives an oral report
on why she loves it all the same, she’s both touching and
convincing. So is the film.  “Monsieur Lazhar,” a Music Box Films release, is playing
in  New York . Rating: *** (Seligman)  ‘Three Stooges’  Bobby and Peter Farrelly’s  “The Three Stooges”  is a
folly, filled with near-perfect impersonations and near-zero
laughs.  Sean Hayes (as fuzzy haired Larry), Chris Diamantopoulos
(bowl-cut Moe) and Will Sasso (Curly, the fat, funny one) strike
each other (and no false notes) in their impressions of the
classic slapstick trio.  The eye pokes and hammer-hits must have been easy; the
better accomplishment is the actors’ uncanny impersonations
(matched by three child actors playing the Stooges at age 10).  Silly Sibs  Written by the Farrelly brothers and Mike Cerrone, “The
Three Stooges” unleashes the silly siblings into the modern
world -- and gets little comic mileage from the clash.  In an effort to make the film family-friendly, the
Farrellys avoid the lewdness that’s been their most reliable
tool since 1998’s  “There’s Something About Mary.”   Sofia Vergara plays a femme fatale, and her Latin bombshell
schtick seems wearier than anything the real Stooges did. Craig Bierko is better as her hapless conspirator, and Larry David,
playing the orphanage’s misanthropic Sister Mary-Mengele, is
entertaining for a few minutes. He’s onscreen considerably
longer.  “The Three Stooges,” from  Twentieth Century Fox (2888A) , is
playing across the U.S. Rating: *1/2 (Evans)  ( Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are their own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include a  profile  of chef April
Bloomfield and a New York City  weekend  preview.  To contact the writers on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com . Craig Seligman at
 cseligman@mindspring.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 