-- Ex Analyst Kuo Pleads Guilty in Dell Insider Trading Case
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-04-13T19:57:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/-criminal-club-fund-manager-said-to-plan-guilty-plea.html
Danny Kuo, a former analyst charged
with participating in a “criminal club” that made almost
$62 million using illegal tips to trade in  Dell Inc. (DELL) , pleaded
guilty and will cooperate with the government.  Kuo, 36, who worked at Whittier Trust Co., entered his plea
today before U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan in Manhattan.  “I knew what I was doing was wrong,” Kuo told Sullivan at
the hearing.  Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said the ring, which
allegedly involved five  hedge funds  and investment firms, is the
largest identified by the U.S. to date tied to a single stock.
One trade earned a $53 million illegal windfall for Level Global
Investors LP’s co-founder, Anthony Chiasson, and the fund,
prosecutors said.  Kuo and three other men pleaded not guilty in February to
conspiracy and securities fraud charges in federal court in
Manhattan. Kuo, who lives in California, pleaded guilty today to
securities fraud and conspiracy to commit securities fraud.  Bharara called the group “a criminal club, whose purpose
was profit and whose members regularly bartered lucrative inside
information.”  Kuo obtained inside information about  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  ahead of
the company’s earnings announcements and then passed the
information to the group and his portfolio manager, the U.S.
Attorney’s Office said. He also obtained inside information
about Dell, which he shared with the portfolio manager,
according to the government. Kuo also traded for his own
account, he said at the hearing.  The three who pleaded not guilty in February are Chiasson;
 Todd Newman , a portfolio manager formerly at Diamondback Capital
Management LLC; and Jon Horvath, an analyst at the hedge fund
Sigma Capital Management LLC. Three other men pleaded guilty and
are cooperating with the government.  The case is U.S. v. Newman, 12-cr-121, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 