-- Abengoa Hits Three-Year Low on Italy Solar Cuts: Madrid Mover
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s   a n d   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-04-13T11:04:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/abengoa-hits-three-year-low-on-italy-solar-cuts-madrid-mover.html
Abengoa SA (ABG) , the Spanish low-carbon
energy developer, fell to its lowest in almost three years in
Madrid as Italy’s solar subsidy cuts raised investor concerns
that other euro nations may reduce support for the industry.  Abengoa  fell  as much as 5.8 percent and traded 4.1 percent
lower at 11.49 euros at 12:39 p.m. in Madrid today. Spain’s
benchmark Ibex-35 index dropped 2 percent after the financial
system’s reliance on central bank funding leaped.  “The fact that Italy may cut renewable energy incentives
may set an example for Spain to follow suit as a way to cut
debt,” Francisco Salvador, a Madrid-based strategist at FGA/MG
Valores, said by phone today.  Italy plans to lower tariffs paid for photovoltaic  power
plants  by as much as 36 percent this year after a surge in
installations made it the world’s biggest market for solar
panels last year.  The business profile of Seville, Spain-based Abengoa makes
it vulnerable to many of the headwinds buffeting stocks
globally, Salvador said. The company uses debt financing to
develop solar-thermal plants.  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  rebutted claims that
his country will need a bailout from the European Union and the
International Monetary Fund as the cost of  government borrowing 
spiked.  BrightSource Energy Inc., a rival solar-thermal plant
developer in the U.S., this week pulled its planned initial
public offering, saying the market conditions were too volatile.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in  Madrid   at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  