-- AFL-CIO Urges Senate Democrats to Reject Challenge on Union Vote
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2012-04-13T17:15:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/afl-cio-urges-senate-democrats-to-reject-challenge-on-union-vote.html
The AFL-CIO, the largest U.S. labor
federation, is urging Democratic senators to reject a Republican
effort aimed at killing a rule that regulators say will lead to
speedier worker elections to form a union.  The labor group opposes the proposal by Senator Mike Enzi
of  Wyoming , challenging a National Labor Relations Board rule to
cut the time between the workers’ request to form a union and
the balloting. The rule is set to take effect April 30. The
union said lawmakers may vote as soon as next week on Enzi’s
resolution to disapprove the labor board standard.  “The new NLRB rule makes modest, sensible changes to bring
balance to the election process,” William Samuel, director of
the AFL-CIO government affairs department, wrote to senators
this week. “A vote against the resolution will ensure that the
rights of working people to achieve economic security are
protected.”  Republicans and business groups such as the Washington-
based  National Association of Manufacturers  have said the labor
board has created “ambush elections.”  Enzi is  joined  by 43 of
47 Senate Republicans in opposing the labor board regulation.  “This rule will make a fair system less fair for one side,
and is being rushed over tremendous objections,” Enzi said in a
February statement. Enzi proposed his resolution under the
Congressional Review Act that lets Congress disapprove agency
actions after they are issued.  House, Obama Action  The Enzi proposal needs to pass the Democrat-controlled
Senate and the Republican-led House before it can be sent to
President  Barack Obama  for his signature. Obama appointed a
majority of the NLRB’s members.  Representatives for Senator  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat
and the Senate majority leader, didn’t immediately respond to
questions on scheduling a vote on Enzi’s resolution.  Senators can request a vote on a federal rule within 60
days of agency action, or notification to Congress.  Business groups such as the U.S. Chamber said the new rule
would deny managers the time needed to discuss union membership
with their employees before voting begins.  Reducing the time for elections increases the chances a
union’s supporters prevail. Unions win 87 percent of elections
held 11 to 15 days after a request, a rate that falls to 58
percent when the vote takes place after 36 to 40 days, according
to a February report compiled by Bloomberg Government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  