-- Air Canada to Resume Full Service Today Amid Labor Unrest
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-04-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/air-canada-scraps-toronto-flights-as-pilots-miss-work.html
Air Canada (AC/B)  plans to resume regular
service today after it canceled about 75 flights yesterday when
some pilots failed to report for work amid stalled contract
talks.  Canada ’s Industrial Relations Board granted the carrier an
order yesterday declaring that certain pilots were participating
in an illegal strike, Montreal-based Air Canada said in a
statement. The board also ordered the Air Canada Pilots
Association to “take all reasonable steps” to end the walkout,
while requiring all pilots participating in the job action to
return to work immediately and “perform their duties in the
normal manner,” according to the company.  Canceled flights were mostly to and from Toronto, the
airline’s main hub, and other Canadian and U.S. destinations.
Air Canada’s overseas flights were not affected. Toronto’s 
Pearson International Airport  is Canada’s busiest airfield.  “While we were able to re-accommodate almost all customers
affected on alternate flights, we recognize the inconvenience
this job action has caused to our customers,” Duncan Dee, the
airline’s chief operating officer, said in the statement. “We
thank them for their patience and loyalty. The vast majority of
Air Canada’s pilots reported to work today and performed their
duties as the true professionals they are.”  Customers who were scheduled to travel by today and wish to
change their plans may rebook for free until June 30, the
carrier said.  Union Contracts  The disruptions are the latest illustration of how the
stalled negotiations over new union contracts are affecting
operations at Canada’s largest airline. Pilots are working under
the terms of their last accord, which expired in March 2011,
after talks begun in October 2010 failed to produce a new deal.  Air Canada feeder carriers such as  Chorus Aviation Inc. (CHR/B) ’s
Jazz unit weren’t affected by the service disruptions. Air
Canada operates about 600 flights a day, while Jazz and other
regional airlines operate another 900 for the company.  Even after the federal government rushed to Air Canada’s
aid in March with a back-to-work bill blocking labor action,
passengers still faced flight cancellations as ground-crew
employees staged wildcat strikes on March 23. That was five days
after so many pilots called in sick that the airline had to
reduce its schedule.  Air Canada Pilots Association Chairman Jean-Marc Belanger
said yesterday that he sent members a memo on April 12 urging
them not to walk off the job after Air Canada contacted the
union about reports of a planned sickout. About 3,000 pilots are
part of the union.  Frustrated Pilots  “I understand the pilots’ frustration, but it’s not the
right thing to do now,” Belanger said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “ Air Canada (AC/A)  is reporting flight cancellations and
delays because some pilots are not at their post, but this is
not a concerted action. It doesn’t come from the pilots
association.”  Canadian Labor Minister Lisa Raitt said the action by
pilots was illegal and urged the company and its workers to
resolve their dispute.  “Illegal work stoppages have disturbed and disrupted
travel for Canadians,” she said in an e-mailed statement.  Air Canada’s pilots are resisting the possible creation of
a low-cost unit that would be based abroad, which the union says
would result in lower salaries. Chief Executive Officer Calin Rovinescu said in February that the company is “evaluating
various models” for a discount carrier, without being more
specific.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  