-- Airlines Lead ADR Index Drop on Slowing Economy: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-04-13T19:03:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/airlines-lead-adr-index-drop-on-slowing-economy-china-overnight.html
Airlines led  declines  in Chinese
stocks traded in the U.S. on concern faltering growth in the
world’s second-largest economy intensifies the risk of a global
recession.  China Southern Airlines Co. (ZNH)  and  China Eastern Airlines
Corp. (CEA)  tumbled in  New York  after saying first-quarter profit
probably fell more than 50 percent because of a slowing economy
and higher fuel prices. The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of
the most-traded Chinese stocks in the U.S. sank 0.6 percent to
103.18 by 2:42 p.m. in New York, to trade steady in the week.  The  economy  expanded 8.1 percent from a year earlier in the
first quarter, Chinese government data released yesterday
showed, the slowest pace of growth in 11 quarters and below the
8.4 percent median forecast of 41 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Stocks on the China-US gauge  trade for  17.6 times
earnings estimates, down from a valuation of as much as 22.6
times in March. Chinese policy makers have been cutting  reserve
requirements  for banks since November to encourage lending.  “ China  is telegraphing to the world that despite inflation
concerns domestically, slower growth will likely force the
People’s Bank of China to initiate further stimulus,” Michael A. Gayed, chief investment strategist in New York at Pension
Partners LLC, which advises on over $150 million in assets,
including Chinese shares through exchange-traded funds, said by
e-mail yesterday. People are “nervous” about riskier assets
and are concerned “they are missing something in terms of
overall macro risks,” he said.  China ETF Falls  China has cut reserve-requirement ratios for county-level
banks by 100 basis points, or one percentage point, the state-
backed Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday, citing
unidentified people familiar with the matter. The amount major
banks must set aside as reserves has been reduced twice by the
same total amount since November, while ratios for  Agricultural
Bank of China Ltd. (601288) ’s branches were reduced last month.  The  IShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., fell 0.2 percent to $37.53,
trimming its gain this week to 1.4 percent. The  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  slid 0.8 percent to 1,376.81, and is down 1.5
percent in the week.  First-quarter profit for Guangzhou-based China Southern,
 Asia ’s biggest air carrier by passenger numbers, probably
dropped more than 50 percent the 1.24 billion yuan ($197
million) made in the first three months of last year, the
company said in a statement yesterday, citing Chinese accounting
standards. The decline was caused by a “slowdown in the
domestic economic growth and the substantial increase of jet
fuel prices,” China Southern said.  China Southern Discount  American depositary receipts of China Southern sank 3.4
percent to $22.72 in New York, extending their second  weekly
decline  to 1.2 percent. Each ADR represents 50 common shares in
the company. The ADRs traded 1.6 percent  below  the company’s
 Hong Kong  stock, which was unchanged at HK$3.58, or 46 U.S.
cents. The discount was the first in three trading sessions.  China Eastern , the nation’s second-largest carrier by
passenger numbers, also expected net income decreased more than
50 percent in the first quarter, according to a statement to the
Hong Kong stock exchange today.  ADRs of the Shanghai-based airline slid 1.6 percent to
$15.59 in New York. The shares have lost 6.7 percent this week,
poised for the biggest weekly decline since December. The ADRs
traded at a 0.7 percent discount to China Eastern’s Hong Kong
stock, reversing premiums over the previous two days.  More Easing  Data this week also showed that China’s imports in March
rose seven times less than in February. The government pared
this year’s economic-growth target to 7.5 percent last month,
the lowest level since 2004.  Should the People’s Bank, which has kept benchmark  interest
rates  at the highest level since 2008 since July, enact more
monetary easing, it will be a boost for Chinese stocks, said
 Mark Williams , a London-based analyst at Capital Economics Ltd.,
who previously advised the U.K. Treasury on China.  “We expect four more cuts to banks’ reserve ratios this
year and have penciled in two interest-rate cuts if the euro-
zone crisis takes a sharp down for the worse,” Williams said by
phone. “Given current valuations and given the strong signals
that the government is easing policy, Chinese stock prices are
likely to rise significantly.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  advanced 0.4 percent to
2,359.16 yesterday, the highest level since March 22. The gauge
has increased 7.3 percent this year and trades for 9.5 times
member companies’ projected earnings, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  