-- Taiwan Dollar Has Weekly Gain on Growth Outlook; Bonds Decline
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-04-13T08:21:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/taiwan-dollar-set-for-biggest-weekly-gain-in-six-bonds-drop.html
Taiwan ’s dollar completed a weekly
gain after data showed Asian economies are proving resilient to
the global slowdown, improving the island’s export outlook.
 Government bonds  fell.  The benchmark  stock index  rallied by the most in six weeks
today after reports this week showed Singapore’s economy
expanded faster than economists forecast last quarter,
Philippine exports jumped by the most in 10 months in February
and China had an unexpected trade surplus. Global funds bought
$3.8 billion more Taiwanese shares than they sold this year,
according to exchange data.  “Taiwan’s dollar is strengthening in line with other Asian
currencies,” said Eric Hsing, a fixed-income trader at First
Securities Inc. in Taipei. “The economy in  Asia  is stronger
than the U.S. and  Europe  which will attract more global funds to
the region.”  Taiwan’s dollar gained 0.1 percent this week to NT$29.528
against its U.S. counterpart, according to Taipei Forex Inc. It
rose 0.1 percent today and touched NT$29.410 yesterday, the
strongest level since April 5.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate
swings traders use to price options, fell 10 basis points, or
0.10 percentage point, to 3.90 percent.  The yield on the government’s 1.25 percent bonds due March
2022 rose one basis point today and this week to 1.284 percent,
according to Gretai Securities Market. The overnight  money-
market  rate increased four basis points this week to 0.480
percent, according to a weighted average compiled by the Taiwan
Interbank Money Center. It advanced two basis points today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in  Singapore  at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  