-- Talbots Falls Most Since December on Sales Outlook
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-04-13T21:22:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/talbots-falls-most-since-december-on-sales-outlook.html
Talbots Inc. (TLB) , the women’s apparel
maker that’s struggling to appeal to new, younger customers,
dropped the most since December after saying first-quarter sales
will decline from a year earlier.  The shares  fell  15 percent to $2.67 at the close in  New
York , the biggest decline since Dec. 1. The Hingham,
Massachusetts-based company expects sales for the quarter ending
April 30 to fall 9.6 percent from last year to $272 million, as
its store base shrinks, according to a statement yesterday.
Analysts in a Bloomberg survey had estimated revenue of $280
million.  Talbots swung to a loss for the year ended Jan. 28, as it
ceded business to competitors and ramped up promotions. After
rejecting a December $212 million offer from private-equity firm
Sycamore Partners Management LLC as inadequate, the following
month the retailer appeared to be reconsidering. Talbots said it
had entered an agreement to share confidential information with
Sycamore tied to a “possible business combination,” in a Jan.
30 filing.  “We remain focused on enhancing our product and executing
our key strategic initiatives, as the board continues its
evaluation of a full range of strategic alternatives,” Chief
Executive Officer Trudy Sullivan said in yesterday’s statement.
The company has yet to find a replacement for Sullivan, who is
seeking to retire.  ‘Viable’ Acquisition Candidate  Rachel Rosenblatt of  FTI Consulting Inc. (FCN) , a Talbots
spokeswoman, declined to comment beyond the earnings release.
Talbots said it swung to an adjusted fiscal full-year loss from
continuing operations of $81.8 million, or $1.19 per share, from
a profit of $40.6 million, or 61 cents, in the year-earlier
period.  The retailer will hold a conference call to discuss
earnings on April 16 after the market closes.  Sycamore, with a 9.9 percent stake in Talbots, offered $3
per share in cash for the company on Dec. 6, a 92 percent
premium from its closing price that day, according to a
regulatory filing.  Stefan Kaluzny, a managing director and founder of the
private-equity firm, cited concern surrounding Talbots’
“rapidly deteriorating performance,” and said that Sycamore
may increase its offer for the company if the board of directors
gave them more information, according to a letter that day.
Talbots shares sank 69 percent last year.  Talbots remains a “viable potential takeout candidate,”
Pamela Quintiliano, a New York-based analyst at Oppenheimer &
Co., wrote in a note today, citing its turnaround potential and
the value of its real estate and credit-card receivables. The
ongoing search for a CEO also offers “an easy plug-and-play
opportunity” for potential buyers, according to Quintiliano,
who has an outperform rating on the stock.  Baby Boomers  The company closed 82 locations through January 2012 and
plans to close another 30 into next year, according to its
annual filing. Talbots had 544 locations at the end of 2011,
according to yesterday’s statement.  Talbots, created in 1947,  says  on its website that its
customers are typically  baby boomers  who are professionally
employed, with about 70 percent having a college education. The
brand has made missteps in recent years by trying to boost its
appeal with younger customers and alienating its core audience.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  