-- Ally’s ResCap Loan May Precede Bankruptcy, Fitch Says
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-04-13T21:49:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/ally-s-rescap-loan-may-precede-bankruptcy-fitch-says.html
Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , the home and
auto lender majority-owned by U.S. taxpayers, may be signaling
plans to put its money-losing mortgage unit into bankruptcy,
according to  Fitch Ratings .  Ally extended the maturity of $2.1 billion in secured
financing for the Residential Capital mortgage unit to May 14,
according to a filing today from the Detroit-based lender. The
accord replaces $2.6 billion of funding maturing today,
including a $500 million unsecured  credit line  that wasn’t
renewed, the company said. The short extension, as opposed to
longer arrangements in the past, may mean ResCap’s fate will be
decided in the next month, Fitch said in a report today.  “The short-term maturity extension could signal a
potential resolution of Ally’s ownership of ResCap in the near
future, possibly including a bankruptcy filing,” Fitch analysts
led by Mohak Rao wrote. Their view is not supported by any
“specific knowledge,” the report said.  Chief Executive Officer  Michael Carpenter  is searching for
ways to repay U.S. bailouts exceeding $17 billion that left the
Treasury Department with a 74 percent stake. Carpenter, who once
predicted that a pending initial public offering could value
Ally at $30 billion, later said the sale won’t happen until
there’s progress on resolving the mortgage unit.  People with knowledge of the matter have said Ally is
considering a plan to put ResCap into bankruptcy, and Ally
included a discussion of the potential fallout in its prospectus
for the IPO.  Ally’s spokeswoman,  Gina Proia , said lengthening the
maturities provides funding “while both companies continue to
evaluate options related to the mortgage business.”  Also today, Ally said it would cut back on its purchase of
loans backed by the Federal Housing Administration, Department
of  Veterans Affairs  and Department of Agriculture from
correspondent lenders, starting April 16, Proia said in an
e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  