-- American Attendants End Talks Amid Push to Scrap Contract
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-04-13T21:27:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/american-attendants-end-talks-amid-push-to-scrap-contract.html
American Airlines  and the union for
its 16,000 flight attendants have suspended negotiations over
$230 million in cost reductions the carrier said it needs to
successfully reorganize in bankruptcy.  The break comes as AMR Corp.’s American prepares for an
April 23 court hearing on its request to throw out existing
labor contracts and impose new terms. The airline’s pilots union
said “no progress” is being made in similar talks with the
carrier.  The breakdowns continue stalemates over contracts between
the Fort Worth, Texas-based carrier and its unions from talks
that began as long ago as September 2006.  Negotiations  may
continue through the 51-day court process to consider letting a
company void existing contracts as unions seek more acceptable
cuts.  “The worst nightmare for a union is to have a bankruptcy
judge determine their collective-bargaining agreement terms,”
 Gary Chaison , a professor of labor relations at  Clark University 
in Worcester,  Massachusetts , said in an interview today. “This
may be a bargaining ploy, but bargaining ploys are not very
attractive to bankruptcy judges.”  American, the third-biggest U.S. carrier, asked the court
overseeing its bankruptcy for permission to void union contracts
on March 27 after failing to negotiate concessions that would
pare a combined $1.25 billion from labor spending each year. The
changes include eliminating 13,000 jobs.  ‘Undervalued’  The  Association of Professional Flight Attendants  has
declined to negotiate because the concessions American wants are
worth more than the $230 million value placed on them by the
airline, said Leslie Mayo, a union spokeswoman.  “We’re not willing to bring anything that is undervalued
to our members,” she said. “Until American is able to bring
something to the table that will give us something our members
will ratify, we will continue to work internally” to prepare
for the legal fight over the contract rejection.  The flight attendants’ union wants American to reduce the
$230 million it’s seeking, something the carrier cannot do, said
 Bruce Hicks , an American spokesman. The airline is seeking a 20
percent reduction in costs from each work group, the amount it
determined is needed to secure competitive labor spending.  “It’s their choice,” he said of the APFA’s decision not
to negotiate.  The flight attendants’ union may face a tough job of
proving to the  bankruptcy court  in  Manhattan  that American has
not negotiated in good faith, Chaison said.  ‘Heavy Standard’  “It’s going to be risky because it’s difficult to define
what good-faith bargaining is,” he said. “I don’t know if they
can marshal the evidence to make that case. It’s a pretty heavy
standard.”  American met briefly this week with negotiators for the
 Allied Pilots Association  in talks that focused on two issues,
Hicks said. The two sides are to meet next week to resume
discussions on contract clauses that govern the number and size
of aircraft that can be flown for American by regional carriers.  “There’s no real progress being made, period,” said Tom
Hoban, spokesman for the pilots union. “They clearly want to go
through this process of abrogating contracts. That appears to be
their endgame with all three employee groups.”  American wants a $370 million annual cost reduction from
pilots, and about 400 furloughs.  The carrier’s “number one goal” is to reach consensual
agreements on the concessions, Hicks said.  ‘Nitty-Gritty’  The Transport Workers Union, the biggest labor group at
American, has held talks with the carrier on an ongoing basis,
said Jamie Horwitz, a TWU spokesman. American wants to cut
spending among workers represented by the union by $390 million
a year and eliminate more than 8,500 jobs. The union’s
negotiators and local presidents will be in  Dallas  next week for
continued work, he said.  “They’re getting to the nitty-gritty of the actual
contract language now,” Horwitz said. “Before, they were
discussing just broad concepts. Now they’re working on
details.”  The case is In re  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) , 11-15463,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Langford at 
 jlangford2@bloomberg.net  