-- Lan’s Cargo Operation Explains Low Stock Risk: Voices
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-04-13T13:41:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/lan-s-cargo-in-passenger-flights-explains-low-stock-risk-voices.html
(Corrects Alejandro De La Fuente’s position in first
paragraph.)   Alejandro De La Fuente, Chief
Financial Officer of  Lan Airlines SA (LAN) , comments on the company’s
status as the world’s safest airline stock of the last decade,
according to Bloomberg’s Riskless Return Ranking, and about the
takeover process for  Brazil ’s  Tam SA. (TAMM4)  He made the comments in an
e-mailed response to questions.  On Lan’s reliance on cargo revenue:  “Lan’s business model has been based in complementing
cargo transport with passenger transport. Cargo accounts for
approximately 30 of the company’s consolidated revenue, a much
higher percentage than other airlines. A third of our cargo is
transported in the passenger airplanes’ bellies, which gives us
a competitive advantage by maximizing the use of the plane.  “Our diversification allows us to face any of the
challenges that permanently affect our industry, as any effect
is limited to a part of our business and can be compensated with
another part of our operation.”  About the merger with Tam:  “The merger with Tam is in line with our strategy of
creating a leading airline in the region, as Tam is the largest
carrier in  South America  and the leader in passenger transport
in Brazil. With Tam, Latam Airlines will have access to the
largest market in the region with important growth potential in
passenger and cargo transport. The presence in Brazil will
increase the group’s diversification, strengthening our business
model.”  About the upcoming share swap in Tam takeover:  “We plan to begin the share swap as soon as the
transaction’s registration is approved by regulators in  Chile ,
Brazil and the U.S. The offer will be valid for approximately 30
days, during which Tam’s shareholders may exchange their shares
for shares in Lan.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  