-- YPF Takeover Threats Risk Breaking Argentine Ties to Spain
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-04-13T20:36:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/argentine-governor-denies-press-report-on-ypf-takeover-proposal.html
Spain  warned that Argentine
President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s steps to take over
 Repsol YPF SA (REP) ’s local unit may shatter relations between the two
countries.  “The rupture of a relationship between Spain and Argentina
wouldn’t just be a rupture in economic terms,” Spanish Foreign
Minister Jose Manuel Garcia Margallo told reporters today in
Madrid. “It would be the rupture of a long-standing fraternal
relationship. It would be the worst-case scenario that we can
imagine.”  Repsol’s  YPF SA (YPFD)  unit has been under pressure since January
as Fernandez and regional governors push the country’s biggest
oil producer to boost output and investments. Cabinet Chief Juan Manuel Abal Medina and Jujuy province Governor Eduardo Fellner
have said all options are on the table regarding a possible
takeover. Repsol owns 57 percent of  YPF. (YPF)   Fellner yesterday rejected a report in Buenos-Aires based
newspaper Clarin that said the government plans to send Congress
a bill authorizing it to take a 50.01 percent stake in YPF.
Fellner’s comments came after officials of the country’s 10 oil-
producing provinces met with Fernandez at the presidential
palace.  “Everything is under review,” Fellner told reporters.
“There is no legal proposal yet, there are just press rumors.”  Fernandez didn’t address YPF in a speech about beef export
taxes yesterday.  ‘Public Interest’  YPF jumped 8.6 percent in  New York  trading yesterday, the
most in a month, after Clarin said the government would ask
Congress to declare 50.01 percent of the YPF’s shares to be in
the “public interest.”  The Argentine securities regulator will probe yesterday’s
stock price gains, according to state-news agency Telam. About
half of yesterday’s deals on the local stock market were YPF
transactions, Telam said in a statement.  The proposal would allow  Argentina  to buy the full 100
million shares owned by the Eskenazi family’s Petersen Group and
another 96.6 million from controlling shareholder Repsol, Clarin
said.  YPF fell 3.3 percent to 118.9 pesos at the close today in
Argentina. YPF’s American depositary receipts have tumbled 47
percent in New York since Jan. 23 as the dispute with the
government intensified. Repsol has dropped 20 percent in Madrid
in the same period.  ‘Act of Aggression’  Fernandez, 59, has sought more investment from  oil
companies  in an attempt to boost sagging production and reduce
fuel imports that doubled to $9.4 billion last year. Provincial
governments have revoked 15 of YPF’s 104 oil field licenses, or
16 percent of its production, since March 13.  A move against YPF “will be considered an act of
aggression by the Spanish government which will take measures it
considers appropriate,” Margallo said today. The minister also
requested talks with Argentina’s ambassador.  Repsol hasn’t received any information from Argentine
authorities, the company said today.  “The government will take the measures that are
necessary,” Deputy Prime Minister Soraya Saenz de Santamaria
told reporters in  Madrid . “Measures aren’t announced, they are
taken. We hope that we won’t have to take measures but we will
if we have to.”  The European Commission has also “expressed its concerns
to the Argentine government,” commission spokesman Olivier
Bailly told reporters in Brussels today. It’s a “bilateral”
issue between Spain and Argentina and investment isn’t covered
by EU trade accords with  South America , he said.  “All parties have to find mutually acceptable solutions
that do not damage the working relations and economic ties
between Argentina and the European Union,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  