-- Marriott Plans to Double its Hotels in Latin America by 2017
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2012-04-13T20:17:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/marriott-plans-to-double-hotels-in-latin-america-in-five-years.html
Marriott International Inc. (MAR) , the
largest publicly traded U.S. hotel chain, plans to double its
operations in  Latin America  and the Caribbean by 2017 to take
advantage of growing demand, Chief Executive Officer  Arne Sorenson  said.  The expansion will focus largely on the Fairfield Inn &
Suites brand and will probably double the company’s sales and
employees in the region, Sorenson said in an interview at the
CEO Summit of the Americas in the resort city of Cartagena,
Colombia. Marriott will add 12 hotels in  Brazil , where it
currently operates five, and five hotels in Colombia, where it
now has two, he said.  Demand for hotel rooms in  emerging markets  such as Brazil
has been fueled by a growing middle class, according to an
August report by Jones Lang LaSalle Hotels, part of Chicago-
based  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)  Rio de Janeiro, Brazil’s second-
biggest city, will host the 2016 Summer Olympics and is home to
the Maracana soccer stadium, where the closing ceremony of the
2014 World Cup will be held.  “The opportunity is enormous,” Sorenson said. “The much
higher rates of growth in places like Latin America and  Asia 
will cause us more and more to shift to a global mix of revenues
and travelers. People as they build wealth want to travel. As
their economies grow, they need to travel to do business.”  Marriott currently has 69 hotels in Latin America with
17,500 rooms, Sorenson said.  Brazil Challenges  The biggest challenges to expansion in  Brazil (BZGDGDP4)  have been
scarce financing and developers choosing to use land for other
types of properties, he said.  “We’re getting to a point where debt markets are starting
to open up, I think equity is starting to open up, and we’ll see
the financing really get solved,” Sorenson said. “There are
compelling opportunities in residential, office, retail. We have
to make sure the hotel opportunity competes well.”  Competitor  Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc. (HOT) , owner
of the luxury St. Regis and W brands, plans to combine its
operations in North America and Latin America “to match a
changing marketplace,” President and Chief Executive Officer
Frits Van Paasschen said in a statement yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  