-- Asian Stocks Rise on China Lending as Korean Rocket Fails
-- B y   J a s o n   C l e n f i e l d
-- 2012-04-13T10:34:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/asia-stocks-rise-after-n-korea-rocket-may-have-failed.html
Asian  stocks  rose, with the
regional benchmark index headed for its biggest gain in two
weeks, after a North Korean rocket launch failed minutes after
liftoff and China’s bank lending surged. Shares pared gains
after the Chinese economy grew less than estimated.  Fanuc Corp. (6954) , a Japanese supplier of automation equipment to
mainland factories, trimmed gains after China said its economy
grew at the slowest pace since 2009.  Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , a supplier
to Wal-Mart Stores Inc., rose 2.2 percent in Hong Kong after
Federal Reserve policy makers signaled U.S. interest rates will
stay low.  Victek (065450)  Co. led declines among South Korean defense
contractors after a North Korean rocket launched in defiance of
international pressure broke up and fell into the sea.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  gained 0.9 percent to 125.12 as
of 7:30 p.m. in  Tokyo , headed for its biggest increase since
March 27. About three shares rose for each that fell. For the
week, the measure rose 0.2 percent after Citigroup Inc. upgraded
global industrial stocks, countering losses in the first three
sessions amid concern  Europe ’s debt crisis has spread to  Spain .  “North Korea is a pest we’ve gotten used to,” said Prasad Patkar, who helps oversee about $1 billion at Platypus Asset
Management Ltd. in Sydney. “Markets see this as posturing
rather than as a genuine threat.”  Asia ’s  benchmark equity gauge  retreated 3.9 percent from
the start of March through yesterday as  China  cut its economic
growth target and on speculation stocks rose too fast after the
index climbed 13 percent in the first two months of the year.
Shares on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index are valued at an average
of 12.8 times estimated earnings, compared with 13.3 on the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 10.7 for the Stoxx Europe 600
Index.  China Growth Slows  Shares pared gains across Asia after China’s economic
growth slowed more than forecast last quarter.  Gross domestic
product  expanded 8.1 percent from a year earlier, the least in
almost three years, after an 8.9 percent gain in the previous
three months, the  National Bureau of Statistics  said in Beijing
today.  Fanuc rose 2.8 percent to 15,010 yen after earlier gaining
as much as 4.3 percent.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , an Australian oil
producer, gained 1.7 percent to A$34.47 in Sydney after crude
 oil prices  advanced yesterday. It pared gains as price of the
commodity slid following China’s growth report.  North Korea today launched a rocket that its official news
agency has since confirmed failed after liftoff. The missile,
which North Korea’s government said would carry a satellite into
orbit to mark the April 15 centennial of state founder Kim Il
Sung, fell into the sea after breaking up, South Korean Defense
Ministry spokesman Kim Min Seok said in an earlier televised
briefing in  Seoul .  Better It Failed  “It’s better to have it fail than succeed,” said Masahiko Ejiri, a senior  fund manager  in Tokyo at Mizuho Asset Management
Co., which oversees $39 billion. “Even if they do build a
nuclear weapon, it doesn’t matter if they can’t make it fly.”  South Korea’s Kospi Index rose 1.1 percent. A measure of
volatility among the gauge’s core stocks fell 8.3 percent, the
most in a month. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index climbed 1
percent.  Japan ’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 1.2 percent.
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc., the country’s biggest bank
by market value, rose 3.6 percent to 402 yen, the biggest
 contributor  to the Asian gauge’s advance. The lender’s trust
banking arm plans to invest in a U.S. fund management firm in
the next three years, President Tatsuo Wakabayashi said.  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index rose 1.8 percent. Shares gained
after the People’s Bank of China yesterday said local-currency-
denominated loans rose to the most in more than a year in March.  China Lending  “China’s well-controlled policy to make banks increase
lending is definitely positive for markets,” said Masahiko Ejiri, a Tokyo-based senior fund manager in Tokyo at Mizuho
Asset Management Co. China’s economic figures “are unlikely to
be a catalyst for selling because if the figures are bad,
expectations for monetary easing will increase.”  Futures on the S&P 500 Index slipped 0.5 percent today. The
gauge rose 1.4 percent in  New York  yesterday, capping the
biggest two-day rally this year, after Federal Reserve Vice
Chairman Janet Yellen and New York Fed President William C.
Dudley endorsed the central bank’s view that U.S. borrowing
costs are likely to remain low through 2014. Those comments
overshadowed an increase in claims for jobless benefits last
week.  Li & Fung gained 2.2 percent to HK$16.92 in Hong Kong,
while  Billabong International Ltd. (BBG) , a surfwear company that
counts the Americas as its biggest market, rose 1.1 percent to
A$2.85 in Sydney.  Profit Forecast  Fast Retailing Co. (9983) , Asia’s biggest clothing retailer,
jumped 8.6 percent to 18,970 yen in Tokyo. It posted the
 steepest gain  in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index after raising its
forecast for annual profit to a record and saying sales outside
Japan will drive growth.  Victek led declines among South Korea’s defense
contractors. The maker of military communications equipment
tumbled 13 percent to 2,350 won. Its shares have surged about 39
percent since North Korea said on March 16 it planned to test a
long-range rocket to carry a satellite into orbit.  Speco Co., which makes fin stabilizers for naval ships,
dropped 10 percent to 2,800 won. Huneed Technologies, a maker of
radio frequency walkie-talkies for military use, slid 10 percent
to 3,510 won.  Infosys Ltd. (INFO) , an Indian software exporter, dropped 13
percent to 2,402.55 rupees in Mumbai trading after forecasting
sales that lagged behind analysts’ estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Clenfield in Tokyo at 
 jclenfield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  