-- Asia Currencies Gain in Week on Fed Comments, Rocket Failure
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2012-04-13T22:16:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/asia-currencies-gain-in-week-on-fed-comments-rocket-failure.html
Asian currencies gained this week
as the  Federal Reserve  signaled it will maintain a loose
monetary policy and a North Korean rocket launch failed.  Singapore’s dollar led gains among  Asia ’s 10 most-used
currencies excluding the yen as better-than-expected economic
growth prompted the central bank to say it will target faster
appreciation to limit inflation.  China ’s yuan advanced as data
showed lending picked up in March and the trade balance
unexpectedly swung to a surplus. Malaysia and the Philippines
both reported jumps in February exports.  “Growth in the region is still resilient and Singapore’s
move shows policy makers are more comfortable on the outlook
than they were six months ago,” said Sim Moh Siong, a currency
strategist at Bank of  Singapore  Ltd.  The Singapore dollar strengthened 1.1 percent this week to
S$1.2457 against its U.S. counterpart, the biggest advance since
January, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yuan
climbed 0.05 percent to 6.3030, Malaysia’s ringgit gained 0.4
percent to 3.0528 and the Philippine peso advanced 0.3 percent
to 42.655.  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke and Vice Chairman Janet Yellen
said this week further easing may be warranted if U.S. economic
growth falters. The monetary authority uses asset purchases to
hold down borrowing costs, a policy that increased the supply of
dollars and spurred demand for higher-yielding assets elsewhere.  Rocket Failure  South Korea ’s won fell 0.3 percent this week to 1,135 per
dollar after an intelligence report suggested  North Korea  plans
to test a nuclear weapon. The currency strengthened 0.5 percent
yesterday after a long-range rocket launched by North Korea
broke up and fell into the sea within minutes of liftoff.  “Investors are just shrugging off this launch,” said Im
Jeong Jae, a Seoul-based  fund manager  at Shinhan BNP Paribas
Asset Management Co., which oversees about $28 billion. “The
news came out before the market opened that the rocket launch
failed, so investors didn’t have to worry about it.”  Singapore’s gross domestic product grew at an annual pace
of 9.9 percent in the three months through March after
contracting 2.5 percent in the last quarter of 2011, data showed
yesterday. Economists expected a 6.8 percent rate, based on the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey. The central bank said it
will increase the slope of the local dollar’s trading band, a
decision predicted by only two of 21 economists in a survey.  Exports Optimism  The GDP report helped support the ringgit, said Akira Banno, a treasury adviser at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Bhd.
in  Kuala Lumpur .  “Singapore exports to  Europe  and the U.S., so good GDP
growth implies good demand and Malaysian exports,” he said.  Malaysia ’s overseas sales increased 14.5 percent from a
year earlier in February, while shipments from the Philippines
rose 14.6 percent, data showed this week. January growth rates
were 0.4 percent and 3 percent, respectively.  China’s new loans surged to 1.01 trillion yuan ($160
billion) last month from 710.7 billion in February, a central
bank report showed April 12. Economic growth slowed to 8.1
percent in the first quarter, the least since mid-2009, the
government reported yesterday.  Elsewhere, Thailand’s baht appreciated 0.6 percent this
week to 30.82 per dollar, before financial markets closed for a
holiday yesterday. Indonesia’s rupiah gained 0.3 percent to
9,140, Taiwan’s dollar rose 0.1 percent to NT$29.528 and  India ’s
rupee fell 0.4 percent to 51.3025 per dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  