-- Asia Stocks Edge Higher on Stimulus Hopes in China, Japan
-- B y   J a s o n   C l e n f i e l d
-- 2012-04-13T23:45:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/asia-stocks-edge-higher-on-stimulus-hopes-in-china-japan.html
Asian  stocks  edged higher this week
amid speculation central banks in  China  and  Japan  will add to
monetary stimulus and as better-than-estimated earnings at
global companies from Fast Retailing Co. to Alcoa Inc. helped
shares rebound from the longest slide since August.  China Construction Bank Corp. (939)  led gains among mainland
lenders after Chinese lending surged in March and as slower
economic growth gave the government more room to ease monetary
policy. Fast Retailing, Asia’s biggest clothier, rose 8 percent
in Tokyo after forecasting record profit. Foxconn International
Holdings Ltd. plunged 8.6 percent in Hong Kong after sales fell
at Nokia Oyj, the handset maker’s biggest customer.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  added 0.1 percent to 125.04,
gaining for the first time in two weeks. The gauge gained 1.6
percent in the last two days, making up for losses earlier in
the week amid concern  Spain  will become the next European
country to need a bailout as bond yields rise. The benchmark
rebounded after sliding for six days, the longest losing streak
since August, and dropping on April 11 to its lowest level in
more than two months.  “We’ve had a little rebound after markets slid too much,”
said Linus Yip, a Hong-based strategist at First Shanghai
Securities. “Whenever things get bad, stocks find support
because investors expect central banks to add stimulus.”  Asia ’s  benchmark equity gauge  has retreated 3 percent from
the start of March as China cut its economic growth target and
on speculation stocks rose too fast after the index climbed 13
percent in the first two months of the year. Shares on the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index are valued at an average of 12.7 times
estimated earnings, compared with 13.1 on the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index and 10.5 for the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index.  Nikkei Trims Loss  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average dropped 0.5 percent this
week, paring its decline after  Bank of Japan  Governor Masaaki
Shirakawa on April 12 pledged to continue adding monetary
stimulus.  South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  slipped 1 percent. The gauge
trimmed losses after a North Korean rocket launch yesterday
failed minutes after liftoff. The missile, which  North Korea 
said would carry a satellite into orbit, fell into the sea after
breaking into pieces, South Korea’s government said. The launch
was condemned internationally as a violation of the reclusive
state’s agreement to end nuclear and long-range missile tests in
exchange for U.S. food aid.  Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200 (AS51)  added 0.1 percent. Shares gained
after payrolls rose more than economists forecast in March,
capping the best quarter since 2010.  Room to Ease  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index advanced 0.5 percent, climbing
in the last two days after a report showed China’s bank lending
surged in March to the most in a year and Nomura Holdings Inc.
said China may soon cut  interest rates .  Shares also gained as speculation intensified China may
ease monetary policy after a report yesterday that mainland
economic growth slowed last quarter to the least in almost three
years.  Mainland lenders advanced. Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China Ltd., the world’s biggest lender by market value, climbed
3.6 percent to HK$5.21. China Construction Bank, the second-
largest, advanced 3.5 percent in Hong to HK$6.21. Bank of China
Ltd. rose 3.8 percent to HK$3.27.  Fast Retailing (9983)  rose 8 percent to 18,970 yen in Tokyo after
raising its profit forecast to a record. Earnings will be led by
higher sales of the company’s Uniqlo brand apparel overseas,
President  Tadashi Yanai  said on April 12.  Stocks also gained after Alcoa, the biggest U.S. aluminum
producer, reported an unexpected profit, boosting expectations
for U.S. earnings season.  Debt Crisis Flares  Markets across Asia fell early in the week as Spanish
yields surged closer to levels that prompted other European
countries to seek bailouts. Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy
said this week the country’s future is at stake in its battle to
tame rising borrowing costs.  Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330) , a  Hong-Kong  based clothier that
counts Europe as its largest market, dropped 1.8 percent to
HK$16.40. Canon Inc., a Japanese maker of cameras and office
equipment that gets about depends on the region for about a
third of its sales, slipped 1.4 percent to 3,790 yen.  Foxconn International, a Kowloon-based contract
manufacturer, plunged 8.6 percent to HK$5.11 after sales at
client Nokia fell. The Finnish company, which this week said its
new smart phone has a software flaw, posted a surprise operating
loss at its handset unit for the first three months and forecast
no improvement this quarter. Nokia accounts for as much as 45
percent of Foxconn’s sales, according to Barclays Plc.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , Asia’s biggest exporter of
consumer electronics and a supplier of touch screens to Nokia,
dropped 4.8 percent to 1,268,000 won in  Seoul .  Among other shares that fell this week, Sony Corp. and
Sharp Corp. plunged after reporting record losses amid falling
television prices and competition from Apple Inc. and Samsung.
Sony dropped 12 percent to 1,444 yen after reporting a loss of
520 billion yen, including a 300 billion yen charge to write
down assets. Sharp retreated 8.1 percent to 514 yen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Clenfield in  Tokyo  at 
 jclenfield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  