-- Asmussen Says ECB Could Begin Raising Rates If Economy Improves
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-04-13T08:42:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/asmussen-says-ecb-could-begin-raising-rates-if-economy-improves.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Joerg Asmussen said the bank could start to raise
 interest rates  to curb inflation if the economy picks up.  “The ECB will act when needed,” Asmussen said in a speech
in Berlin today. “Like last spring when the economic outlook
had improved and we started carefully raising interest rates.”
Still, inflation remains “in check” and will drop below the
ECB’s 2 percent limit next year, he said.  The ECB increased its  benchmark rate  in April and July last
year before reversing the steps as the sovereign debt crisis
worsened, taking it back to a record low of 1 percent. While
euro-area nations including  Italy  and  Spain  are in recession,
price pressures are building in  Germany , the region’s largest
economy.  “Our primary objective is  price stability  and we will
continue to deliver on this irrespective of persistent public
debt overhangs in some euro-area countries,” Asmussen said. The
currency bloc as a whole will experience “only a mild
recession” and the ECB predicts that economic activity will
recover gradually this year, he said.  The European Commission forecasts growth of 0.6 percent in
Germany and contractions in Italy, Spain, Belgium,  Greece ,
Cyprus, the Netherlands, Portugal and Slovenia. The euro-area
economy is projected to shrink 0.3 percent.  Inflation Breach  At the same time, euro-area inflation has been above the
ECB’s target since December 2010.  “Inflation rates in the euro area remain in check,”
Asmussen said. “Current rates are somewhat above 2 percent,
they are driven exclusively by rises in energy prices and
indirect taxes. We expect inflation rates to return below 2
percent early next year.”  Asmussen said while the ECB’s three-year loans, which
pumped more than 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) into the
banking system, have helped buy time for financial institutions
and governments to implement reforms, they aren’t a solution to
 Europe ’s debt crisis.  “The best contribution a central bank can make to
employment and growth is to provide price stability and to
contribute to financial market stability,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Kennedy in Berlin at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  