-- Aussie Drops After China Economy Slows More Than Forecast
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-04-13T05:49:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/aussie-drops-as-china-s-growth-slows-more-than-forecast.html
Australia’s dollar declined from a
one-week high after data showed economic growth in  China  slowed
more than economists forecast, fanning concern demand from the
South Pacific nation’s biggest trade parter will ebb.  The so-called Aussie weakened against all of its 16 major
counterparts amid speculation the  Reserve Bank  of Australia will
reduce  interest rates  to prop up the economy. New Zealand’s
dollar rose as Asian stocks extended a global rally.  “The market is still surprised,”  Sue Trinh , a senior
foreign-exchange strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in  Hong
Kong , said about the data on China’s gross domestic product.
“We’re going to be watching at any increase in speculation of
monetary policy easing by the Chinese authorities, which may at
least help to prevent a deeper retracement in the Aussie.”  Australia ’s dollar fell 0.4 percent to $1.0392 as of 3:36
p.m. in Sydney from yesterday in  New York . It earlier touched
$1.0453, the highest since April 3 and is headed for a 0.8
percent advance this week, the biggest gain since the five days
ended Feb. 3. The Aussie slid 0.3 percent to 84.22 yen.  New Zealand’s currency touched 83.20 U.S. cents, the
strongest since March 2, before trading at 83, 0.3 percent above
yesterday’s close. It rose 0.5 percent to 67.26 yen.  China’s GDP expanded 8.1 percent in the three months ended
in March from a year earlier, the least in almost three years,
the National Bureau of Statistics said in Beijing today. The
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 41 economists was
8.4 percent. Industrial production rose at a faster pace in
March while retail sales growth accelerated, the data showed.  Risk Currencies  “The market’s skew was definitely looking for a stronger
number,”  Jonathan Cavenagh , a Singapore-based currency
strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , Australia’s second-biggest
lender, said of China’s GDP figure. “The knee-jerk reaction has
been to sell risk currencies,” including the Aussie dollar.  The Australian dollar has fallen 2 percent in the past
month, the worst performance among 10 currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. Norway’s krone has
declined 1.8 percent, the second-biggest loser, while the kiwi
has risen 0.6 percent.  Australian bonds have gained this week, pushing down the
 yield  on 10-year debt to 3.85 percent from 4.06 percent on April
5, before the Easter holidays. The  extra yield  investors demand
to hold New Zealand’s 10-year government debt over similar
maturity Australian securities rose to 37 basis points, the most
since Oct. 4. The yield on Australia’s three-year bonds has
fallen to 3.26 percent and is set for a fourth week of declines,
the longest streak since November.  Australian government securities “remain one of the
world’s ‘cleanest dirty shirts’ for risk-averse investors,
especially as the federal budget moves back into surplus and
issuance levels reduce,” Robert Mead, a Sydney-based portfolio
manager at Pacific Investment Management Co., wrote in an e-
mailed note today. Pimco runs the world’s largest bond fund.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of stocks advanced 0.9 percent
following a 1.4 percent rally in the MSCI World Index yesterday.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  