-- Australian Greens Appoint Milne Leader After Brown Quits
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-04-13T05:59:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/australian-greens-appoint-milne-leader-after-brown-quits.html
Australia’s Greens Party, which
holds the balance of power in the nation’s upper house, named
 Christine Milne  to replace outgoing leader Bob Brown after he
resigned today.  “It is prime time to hand over the reins,” Brown said in
an emailed statement, saying he was retiring from working life.
Brown, 67, will also resign in June from the Senate when a
replacement from his home state of Tasmania is named, he said.  Australia’s minority Labor government has relied on Greens
party lawmakers to pass legislation including taxes on  carbon
emissions  and profits of iron-ore and coal producers. Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard ’s performance in opinion polls plunged
after she was forced to renege on a pre-election promise not to
implement a price on carbon in exchange for Greens support to
form a government.  “Even though she didn’t have much of a choice, Gillard’s
deal with Brown to form government really damaged her reputation
in the eyes of voters,” said  Andrew Hughes , who conducts
political-marketing research at the  Australian National
University  in Canberra. “He’s been a thorn in the side of Labor
over the years so his departure may help the government, which
has been seen to be too close to the Greens.”  Minority Government  The Greens, who have one elected member in the  House of
Representatives  and nine in the Senate, can appoint a new upper
house member under parliament rules. The party will maintain its
accord with Gillard under Milne’s leadership, Brown told
reporters in Canberra today.  Adam Bandt , the Greens’ sole member in the House of
Representatives, was elected Milne’s deputy.  Gillard assembled a minority government after the closest
election in seven decades in August 2010, which included making
the deal with Brown. Her  Labor party  has since suffered election
losses at state level, leaving Gillard with allies governing
just two of the nation’s six states. Gillard has also been
forced to fend off a leadership challenge from predecessor  Kevin
Rudd , and has suffered near-record low results in polls.  Labor Support Slides  Labor had 27 percent support in the Nielsen poll conducted
March 29-31 and published in today’s Sydney Morning Herald,
compared with 47 percent for the Liberal-National opposition
coalition led by  Tony Abbott .  Parliament is on hiatus until May 8 when the government
will announce its annual budget, which will seek to balance a
drop in revenue with a pledge to deliver a surplus in the 12
months through June next year.  “Throughout his time in elected office,  Bob Brown  has been
a figure of integrity with a deep love for this country and its
environment,” Gillard said in an emailed statement today. “I
wish him well for his life beyond politics.”  Milne, 58, led a campaign to halt the construction of a
paper pulp mill near her home in rural Tasmania before being
elected to the state’s parliament in 1989, according to a
biography emailed by the Greens. She was elected to the federal
Senate in 2004 and has served as the Greens deputy since 2008.  Environmental Concerns  “Under Bob’s wise leadership, the Greens have grown into
the undisputed third force in Australian politics, with our
vision, policies and action towards a healthier, cleverer,
cleaner future embraced by 1.7 million Australians,” Milne,
also from Tasmania, said in an e-mailed statement today.  Brown, openly gay, led the Tasmanian Wilderness Society and
was a key protestor against the proposed Franklin Dam, which was
later scrapped by then Prime Minister Bob Hawke.  The former doctor served as a state senator for 10 years
from 1983 before his election to the federal Senate in 1996,
according to his website. Brown and his party, which won the
most seats in its history at the 2010 elections, has lobbied
against woodchipping by the timber industry, damning of rivers,
reliance on coal for the nation’s energy supply, and  Australia ’s
participation in the Afghanistan war.  Brown was suspended from parliament in October 2003 for
interjecting during an address by visiting U.S. President  George W. Bush .  “Brown is a rare leader in that he’s leaving politics on
top, and before he was pushed,” Australian National
University’s Hughes said. “The party has the highest level of
representation in parliament, so he leaves a good legacy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  