-- Auto Supplier Warns of Resin Shortage Disrupting Output
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l ,   S a i j e l   K i s h a n   a n d   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-04-14T00:11:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/auto-supplier-warns-of-resin-shortage-disrupting-output.html
The global automotive industry
faces a “severe” shortage of a resin used to make fuel and
brake components that may interrupt production “in the next few
weeks,” according to TI Automotive Ltd.  “The shortage is real and immediate,” William Kozyra,
chairman of Auburn Hills, Michigan-based TI Automotive, wrote in
an April 12 letter to customers that was obtained by Bloomberg
and confirmed yesterday by Frank Buscemi, a company spokesman.
“The possibility of production interruptions at some of your
facilities in the next few weeks is high.”  The March 31 blast at a plant of chemical maker Evonik
Industries AG in the city of Marl in  Germany ’s Ruhr valley is
leading to a shortage of a resin called PA-12, Kozyra wrote. The
explosion, which killed two, resulted in a “complete loss” of
making Cyclododecatriene, also called CDT and a key element of
PA-12, he said. Global capacity of CDT is “very limited,”
according to the letter.  Another resin, PA-10 or Vestamid Terra, may be a suitable
substitute and a few other companies may produce PA-12, Itay Michaeli, an analyst for Citigroup Inc. in  New York , said in a
note, stressing that it was only his initial read in a fluid
situation.  “The risk of disruptions appears serious, but our initial
impression is that the scale of the problem isn’t very severe,”
he wrote.  Brake-Line Coatings  The PA-12 resin is used in most fuel and brake-line
coatings, flexible hoses and quick connectors supplied to
automakers, Kozyra said in the letter. TI Automotive  supplies 
brake and fuel lines, as well as fuel tanks and pumps to all
major automakers, including  General Motors Co. (GM) ,  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , according to its  website .  Automakers haven’t canceled any production plans and are
monitoring their supply chains, the companies’ spokesmen said.  “This could be very significant,”  Michael Robinet ,
managing director for industry consultant IHS Automotive in
Northville, Michigan, said yesterday by telephone. “They’re
certainly looking very hard at substitutes. But if there were
easy substitutes, they would have been thought of already.”  Evonik produces its own CDT and is a “key” supplier of
the material to other manufacturers of PA-12, according to the
letter.  Paint Pigment  The resin shortage illustrates potential sensitivities in
the auto-supply base that also gained attention during the March
2011 tsunami in Japan, said David Cole, chairman emeritus for
the Center for Automotive Research in  Ann Arbor , Michigan. The
disaster crippled plants for companies such as Merck KGaA, the
sole producer of paint pigments supplied to Ford and other
automakers.  “In many cases, the top level of the manufacturers don’t
know down in the lower levels of the supply base where
vulnerability may exist,” Cole said yesterday in a phone
interview. “This was one of the factors in the tsunami and
earthquake.”  TI Automotive and competitors including  Cooper-Standard
Automotive Inc. (COSH) ,  Martinrea International Inc. (MRE) , and Rayconnect
Inc. are holding a summit involving automakers and large
suppliers about the shortage on April 17, according to the
letter. The meeting will be moderated by the Automotive Industry
Action Group in Southfield, Michigan.  Joel Karczewski, director of commercial development for the
Automotive Industry Action Group, deferred to TI Automotive for
comment about the summit. Buscemi, the TI spokesman, had no
immediate comment.  Automakers’ Reactions  “We are aware,”  Mike Goss , a Toyota spokesman, said in an
e-mail. “We are currently assessing the situation in North
America. Until that assessment is complete, any impact on our
production is unknown.”  Chrysler Group LLC is “monitoring the situation with our
supply base,”  Katie Hepler , a spokeswoman for the  Auburn Hills ,
Michigan-based automaker, said in an e-mail. “At this time we
do not anticipate any production impacts.”  GM is communicating with its supply base and information
about the scope of the problem isn’t immediately available,
Kelly Cusinato, a spokeswoman, said in a telephone interview.  “We’re aware of the situation and are monitoring it with
our suppliers,” Todd Nissen, a Ford spokesman, said in an e-
mail. “We have not experienced any production disruptions at
this point.”  Nissan Motor Co. is monitoring the situation with
suppliers,  Brian Brockman , a spokesman, said in an e-mail.  “We are aware of the concern, and have been working with
our suppliers on countermeasures to mitigate any risk,” Honda
Motor Co.’s  Ed Miller  said in an e-mail.  Tony Cervone, a spokesman for Volkswagen, didn’t
immediately respond to telephone and e-mail messages. Jim
Trainor, a  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  spokesman, didn’t have an immediate
comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  