-- Bahrain Grand Prix to Go Ahead April 22 as Scheduled, FIA Says
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s   a n d   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-04-13T01:15:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/bahrain-grand-prix-to-go-ahead-april-22-as-scheduled-fia-says.html
Formula One’s governing body said
the Bahrain Grand Prix will go ahead as scheduled on April 22
amid civil unrest in the Gulf nation.  The Federation Internationale de l’Automobile said today
that it’s “satisfied that all the proper security measures are
in place” to stage the fourth race of the 2012 Formula One
world championship at the Bahrain International Circuit.  “The FIA must make rational decisions based on the
information provided to us by the Bahraini authorities and by
the commercial rights holder,” the Paris-based FIA said in a
 statement  on its website. “In addition, we have endeavored to
assess the ongoing situation in Bahrain.”  After mass protests by mostly Shiite demonstrators
demanding democracy and equal rights from the Sunni monarchy,
last year’s Bahrain Grand Prix was switched to October from
March and eventually canceled.  Smaller-scale protests are still taking place daily in
Shiite villages and sometimes spill over to Manama, Bahrain’s
capital. Opposition groups had called on supporters to step up
rallies before the race.  Bahrain first hosted Formula One in 2004 on a state-funded
$150 million circuit in the desert south of Manama.  The racing series, controlled by CVC Capital Partners Ltd.,
got $175.9 million from trackside advertising and hosting fees
from Bahrain and Abu Dhabi races in 2010, according to London-
based industry monitor Formula Money.  Daimler AG’s Mercedes and  Red Bull  are among five Formula
One teams part-owned or supported by governments or sovereign
wealth funds in the Gulf region.  The third of 20 races on the 2012 calendar, the Chinese
Grand Prix takes place in two days in  Shanghai . Ferrari’s
 Fernando Alonso  leads the world championship ahead of McLaren
duo Lewis Hamilton and Jenson Button.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  