-- Biggest Banks May Need 17% Core Capital Under EU Plan
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-04-13T14:19:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/bank-bonus-that-tops-salary-may-be-banned-by-eu-lawmakers.html
Europe’s  biggest banks  may need to
hold core-capital reserves of as much as 17 percent under plans
being weighed by European Union lawmakers.  The region’s parliament is considering allowing regulators
to impose capital surcharges of as much as 10 percent of a
bank’s assets, weighted for risk, according to a set of
suggested compromises on a draft law prepared by  Othmar Karas ,
an Austrian lawmaker guiding the adoption of global bank-capital
and liquidity rules.  The surcharges would be on top of standard requirements
that lenders hold core reserves of 7 percent and would be
applied to banks “in the highest category of systemic
relevance,” according to the document, obtained by Bloomberg
News.  Governments and lawmakers in the 27-nation EU are
considering rules for lenders that would go far beyond
international agreements approved by the  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision .  Denmark , which holds the rotating
presidency of the EU, has proposed empowering nations to set
surcharges of up to 3 percent across their banking systems.
Karas yesterday suggested adding language to the legislation
that would ban banker bonuses that exceed fixed pay, following
calls from other lawmakers to rein in excessive compensation.  Bail-Outs  Large lenders “pose a threat to the stability of the
financial system as a whole,” Karas said in an e-mail. An
additional capital buffer should rein in lenders from taking
“too much risk,” he said. “In the end, taxpayers’ money must
not be at stake when bailing out banks.”  The draft law must be approved by the parliament and
national governments and there are likely to be changes before
the final legislation is enacted.  “I don’t think this will survive in its current form,” Bob Penn, financial regulation partner at Allen & Overy LLP, said in
a telephone interview. It is likely to be overtaken by other EU
proposals to prevent bank rescues by imposing losses on
unsecured creditors at failing lenders, he said.  Under the suggestions drafted by Karas, 10 percent
surcharges will be imposed “if this is justified by exceptional
circumstances such as the size of the banking group in relation
to the economy of the home country or the degree of
concentration in the domestic financial market,” the document
said.  Enormous Cost  Europe ’s largest lenders would have needed an additional
242 billion euros ($318 billion) in their core reserves to meet
the 7 percent requirement, had it been in force as of June 2011,
the European Banking Authority said last week.  The cost to banks from an additional 10 percent surcharge
“would be enormous,” said  Karel Lannoo , chief executive
officer of the Centre for European Policy Studies, a Brussels-
based research institute.  “I think it will be immediately resisted” by national
governments, he said in a phone interview.  Global regulators on the Financial Stability Board, which
oversees the Basel Committee, agreed last year on a list of 29
lenders whose collapse would have a severe effect on the
economy, and which should face capital surcharges. EU-based
lenders on the list included  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , Deutsche Bank AG,
and Royal Bank of Scotland Plc. The surcharges suggested by the
FSB range from 1 percentage point to 2.5 percentage points.  According to the parliament document, lenders that have
less systemic importance may face surcharges of as much as 3
percentage points of core reserves.  Deferred Bonuses  On banker pay, the document suggests that payment of at
least 60 percent of a bonus award should be deferred for a
minimum of three years. Also, regulators would be required to
collect the names and job titles of bank employees paid more
than 1 million euros a year. The EBA would publish a report on
regulators’ findings.  Under current EU rules, banks are only quizzed on the
number of staff making over 1 million euros, with the EBA also
gathering data on compensation broken down by business area.  The requirement for banks to hold 7 percent core capital
was agreed on by the Basel committee in 2010 as part of an
overhaul of financial regulation in the wake of the crisis that
followed the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. The
measures are scheduled to be phased in by 2019. They need to be
adopted by national legislatures before they can come into
effect.  According to the parliament document, the EBA would
identify “systemic institutions at global, European and
domestic level which are active within the European Union.”
National regulators would then be responsible for ensuring that
lenders hold appropriate surcharges.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  