-- Bankrupt Agent’s $87 Million Estate Goes on Auction Block
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2012-04-13T19:16:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/bankrupt-agent-s-87-million-estate-goes-to-auction-block.html
A bankrupt real estate agent’s
hilltop mansion, conceived during Southern  California ’s property
 boom  and once given an estimated value of $87 million, is going
up for auction after failing to sell for two years.  The unfinished Italianate villa on 12.5 acres (5.1
hectares) in Newport Beach comes with a man-made lake, horse
stables, vineyard, tennis court, 17-car garage and views of the
 Pacific Ocean  and  Santa Ana  Mountains, Auction.com said today in
a statement. The property is being marketed by the Irvine,
California-based company at the request of debtors after an
unsuccessful listing at $37 million.  “At the time when money was in abundance, I can see the
grand focus,” Tom Iovenitti, executive vice president of the
closely held real estate auction firm, said in a telephone
interview. “Unfortunately, this particular property was under
construction when nobody could forecast the impact of the real
estate downturn and what that would mean to building something
of this magnitude.”  The  Newport Beach  estate is the priciest single-family home
ever offered by Auction.com, which has sold “several”
properties with prices as high as $10 million, Iovenitti said.
Other sellers of mansions at auction have been less successful.
A Mercer Island,  Washington , estate with a list price of $28.8
million failed to find a buyer in an August auction.  A March 25 open house at the Newport Beach estate attracted
600 people including at least 20 “serious” shoppers from as
far away as  Seattle , Miami and  Israel , Iovenitti said. Another
showing is scheduled for four days before the April 26 auction.  ‘Very Specific Buyer’  Several qualified bidders already have registered for the
auction, said Rob Giem, an agent with  Sotheby’s International
Realty  who was awarded the listing for the estate in bankruptcy
court.  “While we all know this will take a very specific buyer,
and one who is willing to see the project through to completion,
the interested buyers thus far are all aware there is a unique
opportunity in front of them,” Giem said today in an e-mail.  Originally named Villa del Lago, the estate was conceived
by John McMonigle, the No. 1 U.S. sales agent for Coldwell
Banker in 2004 and 2005, at a time Orange County’s real estate
market was fueled by wealth from locally based -- and now
defunct -- subprime lenders, including Ameriquest Mortgage Co.
and  New Century Financial Corp. (NEW)   Rolls-Royce Marketing  McMonigle attracted luxury buyers to his open houses by
cross-marketing the properties with vendors for Rolls-Royce,
NetJets Inc. and jeweler David Yurman. He filed for Chapter 7
bankruptcy protection last year, listing assets of $1 million to
$10 million, and liabilities of $10 million to $50 million.  McMonigle, who left Coldwell Banker at the beginning of
last year, declined to comment on the planned auction.  Home prices  in the  Los Angeles  area, including Newport
Beach, have fallen 41 percent from their September 2006 peak
after soaring 150 percent in the previous six years, according
to an S&P/Case-Shiller  index .  The estate’s buyer will need to spend at least $5 million
to finish construction of the 17,700-square-foot (1,644-square-
meter) main house, said Bill Cote, a broker with  First Team Real
Estate  in Newport Beach, who specializes in luxury properties.  “If it sells for $15 million, I’d be surprised,” Cote,
who’s sold homes in the area for 30 years, said in a telephone
interview. “You might have the biggest lot in Newport Beach,
but so what?”  Asking Price Drops  McMonigle paid $3.2 million for the land in 2003. Six years
later, the property had an expected value of $87 million,
according to the  Orange County Register , a local newspaper. The
estate was first placed on the Multiple Listing Service in May
2010 for $57 million. The asking price dropped to $37 million in
January 2011, after OneWest Bank FSB cut off construction
funding and as McMonigle tried to avoid bankruptcy.  McMonigle lost the estate, now renamed One Pelican Hill
Road North, to a group of investors who put $10 million into the
project. The property also has a $20 million construction loan
held by OneWest, which acquired the debt after the original
lender, La Jolla Bank, failed in 2010, according to  bankruptcy
court  documents.  The minimum sale price at auction must exceed OneWest’s
secured claim, property taxes, closing costs, a 5 percent
auction fee and other administrative costs, according to a
bankruptcy court filing. No dollar figure was given for the
total, and the minimum bid wasn’t made public.  The bankruptcy case is In re One Pelican Hill Road North
LP, 08:11-bk-17998,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Central District of
California (Santa Ana).  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in Los Angeles at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  