-- Bayer Said to Pay $110 Million in Yaz Birth-Control Cases
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-04-13T21:48:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/bayer-said-to-pay-110-million-in-yaz-birth-control-cases.html
Bayer AG (BAYN) , Germany’s largest
drugmaker, will pay at least $110 million to settle about 500
lawsuits over claims that its Yasmin line of birth-control pills
caused blood clots, in the first resolution of cases over the
product, people familiar with the agreements said.  Officials of Bayer, based in Leverkusen, Germany, agreed to
pay an average of about $220,000 a case to resolve the claims
that its  Yasmin  and  Yaz  contraceptives caused sometimes fatal
clots that can lead to heart attacks and strokes, two people
familiar with the settlement said. The people sought anonymity
because the accords haven’t been made public.  Bayer fell 2.5 percent in German trading today, and its
American depositary receipts dropped 3.8 percent. The
settlements came after a federal judge in  Illinois  postponed a
Jan. 9 trial of a suit accusing Bayer and some of its units of
misleading women about the health risks of its birth-control
pills so a mediator could try to negotiate a settlement.  The case was the first set for trial of more than 11,000
lawsuits over injuries allegedly caused by the drugs.  “Sounds to me like mediation is paying off,”  Carl Tobias ,
who teaches product-liability law at the  University of Richmond 
in  Virginia , said in a phone interview. “As a German company,
Bayer probably would like to avoid the risks and costs of
litigation in U.S. courts. Mediation tends to be a less-
expensive way to deal with these kinds of cases.”  Stronger Warnings  The settlements come as the U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  April 10 ordered Bayer and other contraceptive
makers to strengthen the blood-clot warnings on their products.  Pills like Bayer’s Yasmin, which contain a synthetic
hormone called drospirenone, will have warning labels saying
researchers have found they may triple the risk for clots.  Bayer’s contraceptives generated $1.58 billion in sales in
2010, making them the drugmaker’s biggest-selling drugs after
 Betaseron,  a multiple sclerosis medication. The Yasmin drugs
have been the focus of regulators who question their safety.  “Bayer HealthCare confirms that some cases pending in the
current YAZ/Yasmin litigation in the U.S. are being settled,”
 Rosemarie Yancosek , a U.S. spokeswoman for the drugmaker, said
in an e-mailed statement. She declined to comment on the number
of cases settled or the amount of the accords.  Bayer’s American depository receipts, each worth one
ordinary share, fell $2.60, or 3.8 percent, to $65.83 in over-
the counter trading today. Shares in  Germany  dropped 1.28 euros,
or 2.5 percent, to 50.56 euros.  Prior Settlements  Bayer officials said in a Feb. 28 U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission filing that the drugmaker has settled 70
cases over the Yasmin line of contraceptives.  Those settlements included “terms and conditions which
Bayer views to be reasonable,” officials said in the filing.
“Bayer will continue to consider the option of settling
individual lawsuits in the U.S. on a case-by-case basis.”  The company is expecting additional suits, officials said
in the  SEC filing . Last year, the U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  warned that women taking the pills were 74
percent more likely to suffer blood clots than women on other
low-estrogen contraceptives.  The FDA examined data on more than 835,000 women who took
pills containing  drospirenone , including Bayer’s Yasmin line of
birth-control pills, according to the FDA report.  Bayer’s Yasmin was the No. 4 oral contraceptive in the U.S.
in 2011, with 4.6 percent of the market as of September,
according to data from  IMS Health .  Wave of Litigation  Since 2009, the German drugmaker has faced a wave of
lawsuits in courts across the U.S. alleging the birth-control
pills caused sometimes fatal blood clots. Lawyers suing the
drugmaker cited FDA reports of at least 50 deaths tied to the
pills from 2004 to 2008.  Lawyers for former Yaz users contend in court filings that
Bayer officials sought to market the contraceptive fgor
unapproved uses and misled women about the drug’s health risks  The cases filed in federal courts were consolidated before
U.S. District Judge David Herndon in  East St. Louis, Illinois ,
for pretrial proceedings.  Scheduled Trials  Herndon scheduled a series of trials for early this year so
juries could begin weighing claims that Bayer and its units
marketed Yaz and other contraceptives as safer than rivals’
products while knowing they posed a higher clot risk.  At Bayer’s suggestion, Herndon called in Stephen Saltzburg,
a George Washington University law professor, to serve as a
mediator. Saltzburg’s job was to explore the possibility of
“settlements in this litigation,” Herndon said in a December
2011 order. The judge put the trial schedule on hold while
Saltzburg met with lawyers for the drugmakers and former Yaz
users.  Among the lawyers settling Yaz cases as a result of
Saltzburg’s efforts are  Mark Robinson , Chris Seeger and  Michael
Burg , the people familiar with the accords said.  Those three lawyers are serving on the so-called plaintiffs
steering committee in the cases before Herndon, according to
court  filings . That group helps decide how the consolidated
cases should progress through the litigation process.  Burg, a Denver-based plaintiffs’ lawyer who handles
product-liability cases, also is  listed  in court filings as co-
lead plaintiffs’ counsel in the Yaz cases. He declined to
comment on the settlements in a interview today.  Seeger, based in  New York , and Robinson, a Los Angeles-
based attorney, didn’t immediately return calls seeking comment
on the settlement.  The case is In re Yasmin and Yaz (Drospirenone) Marketing,
Sales Practices and Product Liability Litigation, 09-md-02100,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of Illinois (East St.
Louis).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ; Margaret Cronin Fisk in  Detroit  at +1-
   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  