-- Bernanke Says Promoting Financial Stability Is Key Fed Role
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-04-13T19:30:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/bernanke-urges-greater-focus-on-promoting-financial-stability.html
Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank must increase its focus on
maintaining financial stability in order to prevent a repeat of
the crisis that triggered the worst recession since the 1930s.  “The events of the past few years have forcibly reminded
us of the damage that severe financial crises can cause,”
Bernanke said in a speech today in New York. “Going forward,
for the Federal Reserve as well as other central banks, the
promotion of financial stability must be on an equal footing
with the management of monetary policy as the most critical
policy priorities.”  The remarks expand on a defense of the central bank’s
aggressive response to the 2007-2009 financial crisis and
recession that Bernanke gave in a university lecture last month
and in previous speeches. Bernanke, who didn’t address the
outlook for the economy or monetary policy in his remarks, has
cautioned that “it’s far too early to declare victory” on the
recovery.  “To avoid or at least mitigate future panics, the
vulnerabilities that underlay the recent crisis must be fully
addressed,” Bernanke said today at a conference titled
“Rethinking Finance” organized by the Russell Sage Foundation
and the Century Foundation. “This process is well under way at
both the national and international levels.”  Responding to audience questions after the speech, Bernanke
said evidence is “weak” that low central bank interest rates
contributed to the housing bubble.  Recounting Crisis  Bernanke devoted his speech to recounting the crisis and
explaining the Fed’s actions to the public as it has come under
scrutiny by critics in Congress and on the campaign trail.  Following the bankruptcy of  Lehman Brothers  Holdings Inc.
in 2008, the central bank flooded the financial system with
liquidity, expanding its balance  sheet  to $2.3 trillion by
December of that year from $900 billion in September.  Even as the crisis ebbed, the recession deepened, with
gross domestic product shrinking at an 8.9 percent annual rate
in the fourth quarter of 2008, the worst quarter in 50 years.
The  unemployment rate  rose to 10 percent in October 2009, the
highest since June 1983.  Bernanke drew a distinction between triggers of the crisis,
such as subprime mortgages, and vulnerabilities of the financial
system that amplified their impact.  Subprime Mortgages  The vulnerabilities explain why the estimated $1 trillion
in subprime mortgages, or the almost $7 trillion in wealth wiped
out by the 30 percent drop in housing prices, had a far larger
impact than the $8 trillion in losses caused by the Internet
stock bubble, he said.  One key vulnerability was reliance on the so-called shadow
banking system, which includes money-market mutual funds and
markets for asset-backed commercial paper and  repurchase
agreements .  Other vulnerabilities included poor risk management by
financial firms, inadequate diversification of risk, high
leverage and dependence on short-term funding.  “Critically, shadow banking activities were, for the most
part, not subject to consistent and effective regulatory
oversight,” he said. “Even when the relevant statutory
authorities did exist, they were not always used forcefully or
effectively enough by regulators and supervisors, including the
Federal Reserve.”  A broader failing, he said, was that no government agency
had a mandate or authority to limit risks to the financial
system as a whole.  ‘Very Seriously’  Now, “we’re taking the shadow banking issue very
seriously,” Bernanke said in response to a question. The Fed is
also using so-called stress tests to push financial firms to
better understand the riskiness of their investments.  “As supervisors and regulators, in the first instance we
want to make sure firms are in a position where they can
tolerate a major shock,” Bernanke said.  The financial system came under pressure in the summer of
2007 as the market for subprime mortgage bonds began to
collapse, and by August the Fed responded by cutting the
 interest rate  it charges on loans to banks borrowing at its
discount window.  The Fed lowered its  benchmark  interest  rate  in a series of
cuts, to 3 percent in January 2008 from 5.25 percent in August
2007. Yet in March 2008, the crisis intensified with the
collapse of Bear Stearns Cos., the fifth-biggest U.S. securities
firm, prompting the Fed to intervene and help JPMorgan Chase &
Co. acquire the bank.  That didn’t end the crisis. In September 2008, Lehman
Brothers filed the largest bankruptcy in U.S. history after the
central bank and  U.S. Treasury  declined to intervene. One day
later, the Fed made an $85 billion loan to American
International Group Inc. to avert the collapse of the New York-
based insurance company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Buffalo,  New York  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  