-- Best Buy Board Hires WilmerHale for Dunn Investigation
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t   a n d   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-04-13T18:40:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/best-buy-board-hires-wilmerhale-for-dunn-investigation.html
Best Buy Co. (BBY) ’s board hired
Washington law firm WilmerHale for its investigation of former
Chief Executive Officer  Brian Dunn ’s personal conduct, with two
former federal officials involved in the probe.  Former U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Director of
Enforcement William R. McLucas and former U.S. Attorney for the
District of Colorado Thomas Strickland are assigned to the case,
Greg Hitt, a spokesman for Best Buy’s board, confirmed in an e-
mail today. McLucas declined to comment today in an e-mail, and
Strickland didn’t immediately return a phone call and e-mail
seeking comment.  WilmerHale, born out of a 2004 merger between Washington-
based Wilmer Cutler & Pickering and Boston-based Hale and Dorr,
has about 1,000 lawyers in 12 offices worldwide, according to
its website. The firm ranks 18th among the top 100 U.S. law
firms, according to the American Lawyer, a trade publication.
Gross revenue for the firm rose 3 percent last year to $994
million, the publication said.  The firm is known for its roster of Washington lawyers
including  Seth Waxman , the Clinton administration’s top Supreme
Court lawyer, and former deputy attorneys general David W. Ogden
and Jamie Gorelick. One of the firm’s founders, the late Lloyd Cutler, was counsel to Presidents  Jimmy Carter  and  Bill Clinton .  The firm represents  BP Plc (BP/)  in investigations related to the
Gulf of Mexico oil spill and represented  AT&T Inc. (T)  in its failed
bid for  T-Mobile USA (166783Q) .  Sending a Signal  Best Buy is sending a signal by hiring a firm “that has a
reputation for knowing how to deal with Washington and a very
complex public environment,” said  James Post , a professor at
Boston University’s School of Management who has written about
governance and business ethics.  “They could have gone with lots of local counsel in the
Twin Cities,” Post said. “This move is intended to send a
public signal of independence that the company and investigators
will be independent.”  Best Buy fell 0.58 percent to $22.11 at 2:38 p.m. in  New
York . The  shares  declined 4.8 percent this year through
yesterday.  The Star Tribune in  Minneapolis  and the Wall Street Journal
reported the firm’s hiring earlier.  ‘Personal Conduct’  Best Buy announced Dunn’s resignation earlier this week,
saying that the change was part of a “mutual agreement” that
new leadership was needed. The company later said that a board
committee was probing Dunn’s “personal conduct, unrelated to
the company’s operations or financial control.”  That investigation centers on Dunn’s relationship with a
female employee, people familiar with the matter said yesterday.
The probe is continuing and the board’s findings will be made
public, said Ron Hutcheson, a Best Buy spokesman who works for
Hill & Knowlton Strategies in  Washington .  Dunn’s severance package hasn’t been decided, Hutcheson
said.  The situation in which Best Buy finds itself is drawing
parallels to former Hewlett-Packard Co. Chief Executive  Mark Hurd ’s departure from that company over a romantic dalliance.  HP asked for Hurd’s resignation after an internal
investigation by Covington & Burling LLP found he tried to
conceal a relationship with a woman who accused him of sexual
harassment.  Dechert LLP (1154L)  conducted a later investigation on
Hurd’s departure to help resolve claims made in related
shareholder lawsuits.  “When you say personal conduct issues it means one of two
things: sex or money,” Post said. “The response of the board
in both cases is similar in that they knew the allegations were
serious enough that they had to take action to remove the CEO.”  ‘After the Fact’  “WilmerHale’s investigation like the Dechert investigation
at HP comes after the fact. In some respects, boards look at
these investigations to confirm the wisdom of their decisions,”
Post said.  Best Buy’s speed in hiring WilmerHale may help the company
do damage control on its image but won’t necessarily insulate it
from litigation, said Larry Hamermesh, a professor at  Widener
University (78130MF) ’s law school in Wilmington,  Delaware , who specializes
in corporate law.  “It’s a healthy and beneficial response for the company,”
Hamermesh said. “You want to come clean but you also don’t want
to expose the company any more than necessary. I don’t believe
this action would inoculate the company. What’s done is done.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro,  North Carolina , at   cburritt@bloomberg.net ;
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  