-- Boeing Wins Reversal of $604 Million ICO Global Verdict
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-04-14T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/boeing-wins-reversal-of-604-million-ico-global-verdict.html
Boeing Co. (BA) , in a case in which it
was accused of breaching a contract to build a satellite
communications network, won reversal of a $604 million verdict
awarded  ICO Global Communications Holdings Ltd. (ICOFQ)   “We remand the matter with directions to enter judgment
for Boeing Satellite and Boeing on all causes of action,” the
California state appeals court in Los Angeles said yesterday,
unraveling what was the biggest jury award in 2008, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. “Boeing Satellite and Boeing Corp.
shall recover their appellate costs.”  A Los Angeles jury in 2008 found Boeing and its Boeing
Satellite Systems International unit liable for breaking an
agreement to build and launch 12 satellites for ICO.  The jury awarded ICO, now called  Pendrell Corp. (PCO) ,
$371 million in compensatory damages and, finding that Boeing
had acted fraudulently, $236 million in punitive damages.  The trial judge cut the total verdict by $3 million to $604
million, not including post-judgment interest of
$181 million as of Dec. 31, 2011, according to a Boeing
regulatory filing.  The three-judge appellate panel in a unanimous decision
said the trial judge should have granted Boeing’s request to set
aside the jury’s verdict. The undisputed evidence showed ICO
waived its claim for breach of the satellite contract, and there
was insufficient evidence that Boeing Satellite’s alleged
misrepresentations caused ICO’s alleged damages, they said.  No Harm  Also, the undisputed evidence showed Boeing’s alleged
interference with the launch contract caused ICO no harm, the
judges said.  The panel upheld the trial judge’s order setting aside the
fraud and negligent-misrepresentation verdict against Boeing
Satellite.  “We’re pleased with today’s win and with the court’s
decision to overturn the jury verdict,” Diana Ball, a
spokeswoman for Boeing, said yesterday.  ICO claimed Boeing unfairly demanded additional money to
finish and launch the satellites, which ICO had ordered in 1995
from Hughes Electronics Corp. Boeing’s 2000 acquisition of
Hughes made it a competitor of ICO, causing it to add more than
$400 million in costs for what were supposed to be fixed-price
contracts, ICO argued.  Investors Fled  Lawyers for Chicago-based Boeing said during the trial that
ICO gambled on a market for satellite phones that didn’t
materialize and was trying to blame its mistakes on Boeing after
investors fled.  ICO’s North America satellite communications business filed
for  Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection  in 2009 and last year was
sold to  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  The company, based in Kirkland,
 Washington , renamed itself Pendrell in June and focuses on
intellectual-property investments and advice.  “We are clearly disappointed with the court’s decision and
we are evaluating our options for further review,” Ben Wolff,
chief executive officer of Pendrell, said in a statement.  Pendrell fell as much as 33 percent to $1.45 after the
close of regular trading yesterday on the Nasdaq Stock Market.
The shares had fallen 45 cents, or 17 percent, to $2.17 before
trading in the stock was halted because of “pending news.”  The case is Boeing Satellite Systems International v. ICO
Global Communications, B214649, California Court of Appeals,
Second Appellate District ( Los Angeles .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles
at   epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 