-- Brazil’s Jive Seeks More Distressed Debt After Lehman Purchases
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2012-04-13T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/brazil-s-jive-seeks-more-distressed-debt-after-lehman-purchases.html
Jive Investments Holding Ltd., the
firm that acquired a portfolio of  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. (LEHMQ) ’s Brazil assets, plans to buy an additional 1.1 billion
reais ($600 million) of distressed loans.  The new investments will include non-performing consumer
debt, Alexandre Cruz, the 33-year-old founder of Sao Paulo-based
Jive, said in an interview.  Personal loans with payments more than 90 days overdue in
Brazil increased to 7.6 percent of the total in the year ended
in February, from 5.8 percent a year earlier, according to
central bank data. Delinquent corporate loans jumped to 4.1
percent from 3.6 percent. At the same time, new regulations are
encouraging some banks to sell distressed assets to meet tougher
capital standards.  “We are looking for more partners to increase our activity
in the growing distressed credit markets in  Brazil ,” Cruz said.  Jive, founded in 2010, bought a portfolio of 816 million
reais of Lehman assets that year in a transaction approved by
the court handling the New York-based firm’s bankruptcy. The
holdings include corporate non-performing loans with an
outstanding principal balance of about 726 million reais and
distressed assets totaling roughly 85.4 million reais originated
by Lehman’s fixed-income desk.  “When we saw the Lehman portfolio we realized what a great
opportunity we have,” Cruz said.  Bankruptcy Law  Brazil’s central bank is forcing banks to hold fewer assets
outside their balance sheets, a policy that’s encouraged some
lenders to sell distressed-debt holdings. In addition, a 2005
bankruptcy law has made recovering assets from debtors easier,
according to Guilherme Ferreira, a partner at Jive.  “The delinquency rates have increased, but the
recuperation of credit is getting quicker,” Ferreira said.
“The real estate price boom in Brazil increases the value of
properties, including the ones from firms under bankruptcy
protection.”  Ferreira, 34, said Jive’s focus is still non-performing
loans from companies with total revenue of at least 50 million
reais.  “We love the old bankruptcies because their real estate
properties have strong value today,” Cruz said. Jive doesn’t
buy equity, but sometimes accepts shares in exchange for debt,
he said.  Lehman Work  Cruz and Ferreira first met at the Sao Paulo university
known as USP, where they both studied economics and law.
Ferreira had worked for four years at Lehman, where he was on
the Latin America fixed-income desk in  New York  and then became
the de facto liquidator of the firm’s Brazil operations after
the firm’s bankruptcy in 2008. Cruz owns NeoIntelligence, an
accounting, reporting and compliance servicer that was hired by
Lehman to do back-office work when the firm tried to start its
business in Brazil.  “We are both co-CEOs of Jive, although I am more a COO and
Alexandre is more a chairman,” Ferreira said.  Jive’s portfolio also includes assets from Independencia
SA, a Brazilian meatpacker that stopped servicing $165 million
of debt in September 2010. Independencia had already missed
payments on $525 million of bonds a year earlier after the
global financial crisis eroded demand for beef.  Jive also bought assets from Busscar Onibus SA, a Brazilian
bus maker that filed for  bankruptcy protection  last year and has
more than 700 million reais in debt.  Graça Joint Venture  In 2011, Jive created a joint venture with Graça
Participações, a Brazilian company founded in 2005 that acquires
government-backed claims related to real estate called FCVS.
Graça has a portfolio of almost 500 million in face value of
FCVS.  Jive manages a portfolio of 1.1 billion reais in non-
performing credits and plans to end June with 2.2 billion reais,
Ferreira said.  Cruz said he doesn’t mind when Jive gets called a “vulture
company.”  “The vulture has an important role in nature: to eat and
recycle organic matter,” he said. “That is what we do with
credit. We recycle the credit system, helping credit flow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  