-- Brazil’s Real Drops for Weekly Loss on Slower China Growth
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-04-13T21:30:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/brazil-s-real-heads-for-weekly-loss-on-slower-china-growth.html
Brazil ’s real declined for the
sixth week in seven as slower-than-forecast growth in China and
concern that the government will take measures to weaken the
Latin American currency fueled bets that inflows will wane.  The real fell 0.6 percent to 1.8386 per  U.S. dollar  at 6
p.m. in  Sao Paulo , bringing its weekly loss to 0.9 percent.  The real slid along with most major and emerging-market
currencies today after China said gross domestic product
expanded 8.1 percent in the first quarter, the smallest increase
since mid-2009 and less than the 8.4 percent growth predicted in
a Bloomberg survey of economists. The figures spurred
speculation inflows will be curbed as demand for exports from
 China , Brazil’s biggest trading partner, slows.  “The GDP number from China was bad even though the country
still maintained high growth levels,” Jose Carlos Amado, a
currency trader at Renasensca DTVM Ltda., said by phone from Sao
Paulo. “The dollar tends to have more support reacting to
China.”  Brazil’s  central bank  bought dollars in the  spot market  for
a third consecutive day. The bank has intervened in the spot
market 17 times since the beginning of March as President Dilma Rousseff vows to protect manufacturers from the “monetary
tsunami” created by developed nations that had driven up the
real.  Brazil’s currency has traded weaker than the 1.80 level
since mid-March, when the government expanded financial taxes to
discourage capital inflows and protect exporters.  Yields on the interest-rate futures contract due in January
2014 fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 9.11
percent.  ‘Risk Aversion’  “The China numbers were more disappointing than expected,
and  Spain  borrowing record amounts from the European Central
bank is contributing to risk aversion,” said  Luciano Rostagno ,
chief strategist at Banco West LB in Sao Paulo. “These two
declining factors favor a further drop in rates.”  Spanish banks’ borrowings from the ECB jumped by almost 50
percent in March, reaching the most on record, as lenders tap
emergency loans and channel some of it into sovereign debt
purchases.  Brazil’s retail sales declined 0.5 percent in February from
January, the national statistics agency said. The median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 34 analysts was for a 0.3
percent drop. Retail sales rose 9.6 percent from the year-
earlier period.  Tax Cuts  Brazil last month extended tax cuts for appliances
including washing machines and refrigerators to stimulate
 consumer spending  that’s been driving economic growth amid a
global slowdown and shrinking output by manufacturers hurt by
currency gains. Since August,Rousseff’s administration has also
reduced the benchmark  interest rate  five times and pledged to
boost public investments to achieve economic growth of 4.5
percent this year.  In the minutes of its March 6-7 meeting, the central bank
said there’s a “high probability” that the benchmark Selic
rate will fall to just above its record low 8.75 percent and
stay there.  Rostagno said the market expects the central bank to cut
rates to 9 percent this month and is split over whether the bank
will make a further cut in May.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  