-- Brazil Sales Fall First Time Since August Amid Slow Recovery
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2012-04-13T14:19:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/brazilian-retail-sales-decline-for-first-time-in-six-months-1-.html
Brazil ’s  retail sales  fell in
February for the first time in six months, signaling a slower
economic recovery and reinforcing the central bank’s strategy of
cutting rates further.  The volume of sales declined 0.5 percent, down from a
revised increase of 3.3 percent in January, the national
statistics agency said today in  Rio de Janeiro . Economists had
predicted a fall of 0.3 percent, according to the median
estimate from 34 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales rose 9.6
percent from a year earlier.  “The economy, which had been growing below potential,
isn’t showing significant strength in the first quarter
either,” Leonardo Sapienza, chief economist for Banco
Votorantim SA, said in a telephone interview from  Sao Paulo .  Brazil last month extended tax cuts for appliances
including washing machines and refrigerators to stimulate
 consumer spending  that’s been driving economic growth amid a
global slowdown and shrinking output by manufacturers hurt by
currency gains. Since August, President  Dilma Rousseff ’s
administration has also reduced the  benchmark   interest rate  five
times and pledged to boost public investments to achieve
economic growth of 4.5 percent this year.  ’High Probability’  In the minutes of its March 6-7 meeting, the central bank
said there’s a “high probability” that the benchmark Selic
rate will fall to just above its record low 8.75 percent and
stay there.  While rate cuts have so far been slow to fuel consumer
demand,  pressure on banks to lower their lending rates will
eventually stimulate retail sales and economic growth in the
coming months, said  Solange Srour , chief economist at BNY Mellon
ARX Investimentos.  “We don’t expect a strong recovery in the short term
because credit is not adding any purchasing power,” Srour said
by telephone from Rio de Janeiro. “Still, the scenario is one
of higher consumption in the second half of the year, spreads
will fall and you have a lot of fiscal stimulus.”  Clothing and shoe sales saw the biggest monthly sales
decline, falling 3.6 percent in February. Office supplies,
computers and telecommunications equipment sales rose 3.1
percent, the statistics agency said.  The yield on the interest rate futures contract maturing in
January 2013, the most traded in Sao Paulo today, rose two
percentage points to 8.7 percent at 10:12 a.m. Brasilia time.
The real declined 0.37 percent to 1.8335 per dollar.  Slower Growth  Brazil’s economy grew 2.7 percent last year, less than
 Germany  and its second-weakest performance since 2003.
Economists in the latest central bank survey forecast growth to
rebound to 3.2 percent this year and 4.2 percent in 2013.  The bank, in the minutes to its last meeting, said that
domestic demand remains robust, thanks to near-record low
unemployment and strong credit growth.  The tax cuts on white goods will aid manufacturers
including affiliates of companies such as  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  and
Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd. Makers of furniture, wallpaper,
lampshade and flooring industries will also benefit.  The broader retail index, which includes the sale of cars
and construction materials, rose 2.5 percent from the previous
year, the statistics agency said.  Annual  inflation  slowed to 5.24 percent through March, a
17-month low. The central bank  targets  inflation of 4.5 percent,
plus or minus two percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  