-- Brazil Approves Rules for 4G Wireless Airwaves Auction
-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s   a n d   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-04-13T20:29:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/brazil-approves-rules-for-4g-wireless-airwaves-auction.html
Brazil  approved plans to hold by
June 10 an auction of airwaves for use in fourth-generation
wireless networks.  Rules for the event were cleared yesterday by the board of
Anatel, as the nation’s telecommunications regulator is known.
Carriers that win airwaves must offer the new technology in the
six host cities of soccer’s  Confederations Cup by April  of next
year and in the 12 cities holding 2014  World Cup  matches by the
end of 2013, according to a presentation by Anatel yesterday.  Brazil’s five largest carriers --  Telefonica Brasil SA (VIVT4) ,  Tim
Participacoes SA (TIMP3) ,  America Movil  SAB,  Oi SA (OIBR4)  and  NII Holdings Inc. (NIHD) 
-- will be the biggest participants in the auction, said  Jose
Otero , an analyst at  Signals Telecom Consulting .  DirecTV (DTV)  may
also participate through its Sky Brasil Servicos Ltda. unit, he
said.  “I expect all interested parties to the upcoming auction
to be companies that already have a presence in Brazil’s
telecommunications market,” Otero, who is based in Montevideo,
Uruguay, said on April 10 in response to e-mailed questions.
“The only possibility of this not occurring would be a party
interested in entering the market to deploy a network targeting
wholesale services.”  Sky Brasil could use the airwaves since it only has
licensed spectrum in a limited number of cities and doesn’t have
access to major markets such as Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro and
Brasilia, Otero said.  Rural Areas  The auction will include airwaves in the 2.5-gigahertz
frequency range for 4G networks. Airwaves in the 450-megahertz
range will also be auctioned for wireless coverage in rural
areas. It will provide enough airwaves for three or four
carriers to offer nationwide 4G coverage, Marcelo Bechara, an
Anatel commissioner, said yesterday at the agency’s board
meeting.  The government plans to publish details of the auction
process by April 26, after the plan is reviewed by the federal
accountability office, Joao Rezende, Anatel’s president, told
reporters today in Brasilia. All large carriers in Brazil,
including fixed-line companies, should bid in the auction, and
foreign companies may choose to enter, he said.  “The 2.5-gigahertz band is one of the last available for
mobile service, which makes the auction attractive,” he said.
“We’re expecting demand for the spectrum to accommodate the
growth in mobile voice and data use.”  Consumer Prices  While the 4G auction winners will be determined by the
highest bids, the auction for rural airwaves will be based on
which participant proposes the lowest prices for consumers,
Rezende said.  In the rural auction, participants will have to make
deposits of 10 percent of the value of the investment, or around
200 million to 300 million reais ($109 million to $163 million),
Rezende said. The winner must pay 2 billion to 3 billion reais
to guarantee completion of the project, he said.  “We want to keep speculators away,” he said.  Brazil had a record 248 million wireless lines at the end
of February, according to Anatel, surpassing its estimated
population of 210 million.  The government of President  Dilma Rousseff  expects the
auction of two new frequencies to boost the demand for Internet
use among middle-class Brazilians, Communications Minister  Paulo Bernardo  said in a January interview.  Main Advantage  Fixed-line Internet access grew 22 percent in Brazil last
year, while mobile expanded 99 percent, Bernardo said in
January.  Networks using 4G technology will offer faster Internet
speeds as their main advantage, said Eduardo Tude, president of
 Teleco , a consulting company.  “The services are the same, but with faster speed
consumers can start doing things they couldn’t before, such as
accessing more video and storing more photos and documents in
the cloud,” Tude said in an April 11 phone interview.  The scarcity of 4G equipment could be a hurdle for carriers
who acquire the new airwaves, Otero said. Brazil’s decision to
move to 4G networks at about the same time as other countries
around the world will hinder operators’ ability to get economies
of scale, which will lead to higher prices for network
infrastructure and handsets, he said.  Telefonica Brasil, the local division of Madrid-based
Telefonica SA, fell 1.7 percent to 55.20 reais at the close in
 Sao Paulo . Tim, a unit of Milan-based Telecom Italia SpA,
dropped 1.6 percent to 11.51 reais. Rio de Janeiro-based Oi slid
1.7 percent to 8.76 reais. America Movil, based in Mexico City,
fell 0.3 percent to 15.74 pesos in trading there.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carla Simoes in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net ;
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  