-- Brewer May Allow Guns in Arizona’s Government Buildings
-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-04-16T19:24:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/brewer-may-allow-guns-in-arizona-s-government-buildings.html
Governor Jan Brewer will decide
within days whether to sign  a bill  allowing guns in libraries,
city halls and other public buildings in  Arizona (BEESAZ) , where a U.S.
lawmaker was shot in the head last year.  The bill, which passed the state Senate yesterday, would
allow armed people on public property unless the space is
protected by metal detectors, security personnel and firearm
lockers. Governments say that providing such measures to keep
guns out would cost millions of dollars.  The goal of the bill is “to prevent murder,” said Charles
Heller, a co-founder of the  Arizona  Citizens Defense League. His
6,500-member gun-rights group pushed for the bill.  “If you are a criminal or a terrorist, what better place
can you commit your mayhem than a place where you know everyone
is disarmed?” Heller, who is also a local talk-radio host, said
today by telephone.  Under the measure, municipalities and other governments
wouldn’t be able to ban guns in their public buildings, as they
can now, unless the spaces are secured. The bill passed the
state House of Representatives March 6.  Ninth State  If Brewer, a 67-year-old Republican, signs it, the state
would join others that allow guns in government buildings. Nine
states allow guns in their capitols, according to the  National
Conference of State Legislatures . Passage of the measure
followed the shooting of U.S. Representative  Gabrielle Giffords ,
a Democrat, in a Tucson grocery store parking lot in January
2011.  Brewer’s decision will be made amid increased scrutiny of
the nation’s gun laws after the Trayvon Martin killing in
 Florida . Authorities initially didn’t charge the shooter, George
Zimmerman, because of a National Rifle Association-backed state
law that expanded the definition of self defense.  Maricopa County, which includes Phoenix, said adding
security to its buildings as a way to keep them gun-free would
cost $11.3 million for equipment and $19.5 million in continuing
expenses, according to a legislative  analysis .  Those costs are too high, said state Representative Ruben Gallego, a gun-owning Phoenix Democrat who opposed the measure.  Seeking Cover  “We want our libraries and community centers to be gun-
free zones,” Gallego said by telephone about buildings in his
South Phoenix district, which is among the city’s high-crime
areas. “This is where people go to get away from gun violence.
This bill is going to require the militarization of our
community centers and libraries.”  Brewer, who has five days to decide on the bill, vetoed a
similar measure last year. Heller said changes have been made to
alleviate her concerns.  The NRA backed the governor with an A+ rating in 2010.
Since taking office in 2009, she has signed several measures
expanding gun rights, including allowing them in bars and
letting residents carry concealed weapons without a permit. Last
month, she approved an NRA-supported bill to let hunters use
silencing devices on their weapons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  