-- Cameron Urges Myanmar to Make Political Changes Irreversible
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-04-13T09:57:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/cameron-vows-support-for-myanmar-in-bid-to-cement-democracy-1-.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
urged Myanmar’s leaders to make progress toward democracy
“irreversible” on the first trip by a Western leader to the
nation since the opposition rejoined the political system.  “We need to see progress on political reform,” Cameron
said before he met Myanmar’s military-backed president, Thein Sein, for talks in the capital, Naypyidaw, today. “We need to
see prisoners freed and changes to show the reform is
irreversible.”  Cameron is looking for signs that Myanmar’s rulers are
genuine about change before he lobbies the rest of the European
Union to drop or soften sanctions against the Southeast Asian
nation, which has been controlled by the army for decades. The
premier was cautiously optimistic after his talks and regards
 Thein Sein  as being sincere in what has been done so far,
according to an official from the premier’s office, who declined
to be identified in line with government policy.  After his discussions with Thein Sein, Cameron arrived in
Myanmar’s main city, Yangon, to meet opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi, who has called for a “new era” after her  National
League for Democracy  claimed victory in 43 seats it contested in
April 1 by-elections.  “Aung San Suu Kyi has shown incredible courage over these
past decades,” Cameron said, recalling the opposition leader’s
time under house arrest. “We should be under no illusion about
what a long way there is to go and how much more the government
has to do to show this reform is real.” He spoke of the need to
“be very cautious and very skeptical.”  ‘Significant and Historical’  “We are very encouraged by your acknowledgement of our
efforts we have made on human rights and democracy,” Thein Sein
told Cameron before the talks in the presidential palace in
Naypyidaw. “The visit is significant and historical.”  The NLD boycotted a 2010 election won by Thein Sein’s army-
backed party, which along with the military still controls more
than 80 percent of parliamentary seats.  “I am confident that he genuinely wishes for democratic
reform,” Suu Kyi said of Thein Sein in a March 30 press
briefing in Yangon. “But as I have always said, I have never
been certain as to exactly how much support there is behind him,
particularly from the military.”  Britain currently discourages trade with Myanmar and EU
sanctions prohibit all but humanitarian assistance. Cameron
wants a program that will support better and stronger
governance, encourage sound public finances, strengthen the rule
of law and consolidate parliamentary democracy, the official
said. He won’t be able to roll out that assistance without the
EU softening its sanctions at a foreign ministers’ meeting on
April 23.  ‘Not Being Backwards’  “Just as Britain played a leading role in  Europe  in
placing tough sanctions on that regime, so we should be the
ones, if we are satisfied change is taking place, we should be
the ones not being backwards in our response,” Cameron told
reporters yesterday.  Myanmar lawmakers are pushing to revamp the financial
system and attract investment to revive an economy hindered by
military rule and the EU and U.S. sanctions. The  central bank 
implemented a managed float of its currency this month to
improve the business climate in the country of 64 million people
that borders China and  India .  Trade Mission  Cameron’s visit closes a four-day trade and diplomatic
mission to the region in which he’s sought to rebuild political
ties with former colonies such as  Malaysia  and boost U.K.
exports and inward investment.  All but about 10 of the 35 executives from British
companies who traveled with Cameron this week abandoned the
prime minister’s jet for the Myanmar leg of the visit because it
is strictly political and not commercial, his office said. The
visiting business leaders will attend cultural programs and will
avoid any commercial meetings.  In 1990, the military rejected an election victory by the
NLD in which the opposition party won about 80 percent of seats
for a committee to draft a new constitution. Suu Kyi, a Nobel
Peace Prize winner known in Myanmar simply as “The Lady,” was
detained during both that vote and the 2010 elections.  White House spokesman  Jay Carney  called the April 1
elections, held to fill parliamentary vacancies, an “important
step.” Even so, U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton   said
April 4  that “this reform process has a long way to go. The
future is neither clear nor certain.”  Investor Interest  Rich in natural gas, gold and gems, Myanmar represents one
of  Asia ’s last untapped frontier markets, attracting investors
such as  Jim Rogers , the chairman of Rogers Holdings, who
predicted a global commodities rally in 1999. Cambodia-based
Leopard Capital plans to raise $100 million for a fund to invest
in Myanmar once sanctions are lifted, according to Douglas Clayton, its founder and chief executive officer.  Myanmar’s per-capita gross domestic product amounts to
$2.25 per day, about half that of  Vietnam  and 14 percent of
neighboring  Thailand ’s, according to International Monetary Fund
estimates. Only one in 30 people have a mobile phone and even
fewer have  Internet access , Nomura Holdings Inc. said in a March
14 report.  For Suu Kyi to have a shot at the presidency in 2015,
she’ll need the army’s help. The constitution passed in 2008
bans her from becoming head of state because her children have
British nationality. Amending that article requires support from
75 percent of lawmakers, a quarter of whom are active-duty
soldiers, followed by a referendum, according to the
 constitution .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  