-- Cameron Seeks Suspension of Myanmar Sanctions to Spur Change
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-04-13T14:52:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/cameron-says-it-s-right-to-suspend-some-sanctions-on-myanmar.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
took the first steps by a Western leader to end Myanmar’s
political and economic isolation by calling for an easing of
sanctions to encourage further moves toward democracy.  Speaking alongside Nobel Peace Prize laureate  Aung San Suu Kyi , Myanmar’s opposition leader, at her lakeside home in Yangon
today, Cameron said the European Union should suspend rather
than abolish sanctions apart from an arms embargo at an April 23
meeting. That would reward the military-backed leadership for
changes so far while maintaining pressure on the government.  It was the first visit to Myanmar by a British leader since
at least 1948, when the Southeast Asian nation, then known as
 Burma , gained independence from the U.K.  “I think it is right to take this first step,” Cameron
said after 45 minutes of talks with the democracy campaigner
during his groundbreaking visit. “If we really want to see a
chance of greater freedom and democracy in Burma we should
respond when they take action. It’s a bold move.”  The suspension of sanctions that apply to all non-
humanitarian trade and the country’s reserves of precious
stones, logging and mining will “strengthen the hand of
reformers,” Suu Kyi said. Military sanctions will remain in
place, Cameron said.  House Arrest  Suu Kyi, 66, who has spent 15 out of the past 20 years
under house arrest in her Yangon residence, was restricted from
seeing her two sons and husband, who died of cancer in March
1999. She declined permission to visit him in Britain before he
died, fearing she wouldn’t be allowed back into Myanmar.  Cameron invited the opposition leader today to travel to
Britain in June. “Perhaps,” she replied.  Cameron met Myanmar’s president,  Thein Sein , in the
capital, Naypyidaw, before traveling to Yangon. The premier told
him before their talks in the presidential palace that “we need
to see prisoners freed and changes to show the reform is
irreversible.”  Suu Kyi has called for a “new era” in the Southeast Asian
nation after her  National League for Democracy  claimed victory
in 43 seats it contested in April 1 special elections. The NLD
boycotted a 2010 election won by Thein Sein’s army-backed party,
which along with the military still controls more than 80
percent of parliamentary seats.  “The world loves a happy ending,” Suu Kyi said. “I don’t
at all mind that Prime Minister Cameron would like to see a
happy ending to the democracy story in Burma. We will work
towards that. We would hate to disappoint our friends.”  Humanitarian Aid  Britain currently discourages trade with Myanmar and EU
sanctions prohibit all but humanitarian assistance. The U.K. is
the largest aid donor to the country, a former British colony.  Myanmar lawmakers are pushing to revamp the financial
system and attract investment to revive an economy hindered by
military rule and the EU and U.S. sanctions. The  central bank 
implemented a managed float of its currency this month to
improve the business climate in the country of 64 million people
that borders China and  India .  In 1990, the military rejected an election victory by the
NLD in which the opposition party won about 80 percent of seats
for a committee to draft a new constitution. Suu Kyi, a Nobel
Peace Prize winner known in Myanmar simply as “The Lady,” was
detained during both that vote and the 2010 elections.  White House spokesman  Jay Carney  called the April 1
elections, held to fill parliamentary vacancies, an “important
step.” Even so, U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton   said
April 4  that “this reform process has a long way to go. The
future is neither clear nor certain.”  Investor Interest  Rich in natural gas, gold and gems, Myanmar represents one
of  Asia ’s last untapped frontier markets, attracting investors
such as  Jim Rogers , the chairman of Rogers Holdings, who
predicted a global commodities rally in 1999. Cambodia-based
Leopard Capital plans to raise $100 million for a fund to invest
in Myanmar once sanctions are lifted, according to Douglas Clayton, its founder and chief executive officer.  Myanmar’s per-capita gross domestic product amounts to
$2.25 per day, about half that of  Vietnam  and 14 percent of
neighboring  Thailand ’s, according to International Monetary Fund
estimates. Only one in 30 people have a mobile phone and even
fewer have  Internet access , Nomura Holdings Inc. said in a March
14 report.  For Suu Kyi to have a shot at the presidency in 2015,
she’ll need the army’s help. The constitution passed in 2008
bans her from becoming head of state because her children have
British nationality. Amending that article requires support from
75 percent of lawmakers, a quarter of whom are active-duty
soldiers, followed by a referendum, according to the
 constitution .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in Yangon at  gvina@bloomberg.net ;
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  