-- Campaign Going to Dogs as PACs Fix on Romney Pet’s Ride
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-04-13T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/campaign-going-to-dogs-as-pacs-fix-on-romney-pet-s-ride.html
In presidential politics, a
candidate’s children are off limits. In the 2012 campaign, pets
are fair game. Two dogs to be exact: Bo and Seamus.  Bo is the Portuguese water dog and first-pet, with which
President Barack Obama rides in his armored limousine to shop
for bones and aboard Air Force One for family vacations in
 Hawaii . Seamus is the Irish setter who belonged to Mitt Romney’s
family in the 1980s. He’s famous for being placed by the former
Massachusetts governor in a crate on the family car’s roof for a
12-hour ride to  Canada  for a vacation.  The tale could hound Romney until November. Obama’s aides
have used it as a character contrast between the president and
his near-certain Republican Party general election opponent.  Now, independent political action committees are spreading
the word about the Ontario-bound car ride. The latest,
“DogPAC,” opened this week. The organization’s founder has set
a fundraising goal of more than $1 million to blanket such swing
states as Ohio and  Virginia  with ads, bumper stickers and T-
shirts.  In a new age of micro-targeting messages to a splintered
electorate, pet owners represent a growing prospective voting
pool. The number of U.S. households that own a pet has increased
2.1 percent to its highest level of 73 million, according to a
2011-2012 national  survey  by the American Pet Products
Association.  Dogs and Presidents  Dogs have played a significant role in presidential
culture, helping to humanize the nation’s top executive for
people by making him seem more like themselves or their
neighbors. They also serve as best buds: former President  Harry Truman , who had Feller, a cocker spaniel, stated: “If you want
a friend in Washington, get a dog.”  George H.W. Bush ’s English springer spaniel, Millie, was
the first presidential pet to write a book.  Richard Nixon  had
King Timahoe, an Irish setter.  Franklin Delano Roosevelt  had
Fala, a Scottish terrier he defended against a Republican attack
in the 1944 “Fala Speech,” saying: “These Republican leaders
have not been content with attacks on me, or on my wife or on my
sons. No, not content with that, they now include my little dog,
Fala.”  “It creates the picture of the family man who has a pet
and is kind and gentle,” said Robert Dallek, a presidential
historian. “The contrast being made is that Romney is a rather
stiff-back, harsh character, and he made the dog ride on the
roof of his car.”  Santorum Attack  Seamus became fodder during the primary fight when Romney’s
former rival for the Republican nomination,  Rick Santorum ,
claimed that Seamus’s treatment on the car trip raised “issues
of character.”  “We need to look at all of those issues and make a
determination as to whether that’s the kind of person you want
to be president of the  United States ,” Santorum said in a March
18 interview on ABC’s “This Week.”  In the general election, timing also may not be Romney’s
best friend -- National Dog Day falls on Aug. 26, the day before
the opening of the  Republican National Convention  in Tampa,
 Florida .  Bo, meanwhile, is featured on the White House Flickr photo
feed roughly as many times as National Economic Council Director
 Gene Sperling  and Chief of Staff  Jacob Lew .  During a women’s forum at the White House last week, Obama
joked that his “wingman Bo” is usually with him to help
balance out his female-dominant household.  Bin Laden Raid  In a 17-minute campaign video released last month, Obama
enhanced his pet credentials further when he went out of his way
to reference Cairo, the Belgian Malinois from Seal Team Six
involved in the raid that killed al Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden.  “It wasn’t until I knew that they were across the border,
they were safe, everybody was accounted for including the dog,”
Obama said, pausing with a smile, “that I allowed some
satisfaction.”  Romney campaign officials dismissed the criticism, saying
economic matters would trump all others.  “Gas prices are above $4 per gallon. Rising costs at the
supermarket and at the doctor are causing deep economic unease
for so many families,” said Kevin Madden, a campaign adviser.
“And the Obama campaign wants to talk about a story involving
the Romney family and their pet from 1983? Do they really?”  YouTube parodies of the 1983 car ride include “The Ballad
of Mitt and Seamus” and the “Mutt Romney Blues.” A recent
 Google search  for “Seamus the dog roof” brought up an ad to
buy a dog t-shirt that says “Woof not Roof.”  Obama Campaign Appeals  The Obama campaign has been advertising its “Pet Lovers
for Obama” group on select websites, and there’s a dedicated
pet section for shoppers at the campaign store.  “It’s not just the dog story, it relates to other things
about the man’s character or personality that allows it to
resonate it so effectively,” Dallek said.  Stephanie Cutter , the deputy campaign manager, was given a
“Dogs Against Romney” T-shirt -- made by a non-campaign
affiliated group -- that sits on a table in her office. Chief
strategist  David Axelrod , in January, posted on Twitter a
picture of Obama and Bo in the presidential limo with the
caption, “How loving owners transport their dogs.”  Obama’s aides haven’t noted that the presidential pet is
technically transported on taxpayer funded aircraft and
vehicles.  Seamus’s Ride  According to the 2007 story in the  Boston  Globe, Romney
built a windshield for the dog carrier to “make the ride more
comfortable for the dog.” During the trip, Romney’s son
“glimpsed the first sign of trouble” and called out “Gross!”  “A brown liquid was dripping down the back window, payback
from an Irish setter who’d been riding on the roof in the wind
for hours.” After turning into a service station, Romney
“borrowed a hose, washed down Seamus and the car, then hopped
back onto the highway. It was a tiny preview of a trait he would
grow famous for in business: emotion-free  crisis management ,”
the Boston Globe reported.  Seamus survived the trip and Romney has said he lived to a
“ripe old age.”  The story resonated particularly for Ron Carver, 65, whose
Tibetan terrier, Amber, passed away late last year. Carver was
especially rabid over Romney’s decision to keep a hosed-down
Seamus on the roof after the dog’s nervous accident.  DogPAC Campaign  Carver, a retiree who was a labor organizer for the
Teamsters Union, has never donated to Obama’s campaigns. Yet,
along with some of his own funds, he hopes to raise more than $1
million through DogPAC to advertise on cable channels in
battleground states.  With his “Paws on the Pavement” campaign and a website
called  GoodDogBadRomney.com  that went live this week, he’s also
set a goal for recruiting more than one million people to put
bumper stickers on their cars, featuring a cartoon logo of
Seamus’s ride.  “I would take Amber up to Boston on a 10-hour trip at
least once a year in my minivan,” Carver said. “But what we
did was we put our luggage on the roof and my kids and the dog
in the minivan.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in  Washington  at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  