-- Canadian Dollar Touches Week High on Commodity Prospects
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-04-13T13:18:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/canadian-dollar-touches-week-high-on-commodity-prospects.html
Canada ’s dollar reached its highest
level versus its U.S. counterpart this week on speculation
commodity exporters will weather a global slowdown.  The currency rose today against most of its major
counterparts tracked by Bloomberg and was headed for a 0.3
percent advance against the greenback this week. Government
bonds rose for the first time in three days before next week’s
Bank of Canada decision on  interest rates . The Canadian dollar’s
volatility fell.  “What the commodity currencies offer is high yield to the
U.S. and more positive growth prospects,” said  Steven Saywell ,
head of foreign-exchange strategy for Europe at BNP Paribas SA
in  London , in a telephone interview, referring to the dollars of
Canada,  Australia  and New Zealand. “We quite like them.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie, was little changed
at 99.44 cents per U.S. dollar at 8:50 a.m. in Toronto, after
touching 99.27 cents, the strongest level since April 6. One
Canadian dollar buys $1.0057.  The loonie rose the most today against the Swiss franc and
the euro as volatility fell.  Implied volatility for one-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus the greenback decreased to 6.96 percent, compared
with 6.75 percent on March 19, the lowest level since June 2007.  Implied volatility, which traders quote and use to set
option prices, signals the expected pace of currency swings.
Lower volatility tends to favor higher-yielding currencies such
as the Canadian dollar.  Bonds Rally  A gain in government  bonds  pushed yields on 10-year
securities down three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to
2.02 percent. The yields fell on April 10 to below 2 percent for
the first time since March 13.  Government bonds  have lost 0.4 percent this year, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. Canada’s primary
measure of stocks, the Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index,
has increased 2.2 percent as investors seek higher-yielding
assets on bets the worst of the European debt crisis is over.  Bank of Canada policy makers meet on April 17 to determine
interest rates. Governor  Mark Carney  kept the  target lending
rate  at 1 percent last month in the longest pause since the
1950s on signs a strong currency and fragile global recovery
will restrain exports.  The loonie will appreciate to 98 cents by the end of 2012,
according to the median of 31 forecasts in a Bloomberg News
survey of economists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  