-- CBOE Hires Chief Compliance Officer Amid U.S. Investigation
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a   a n d   J o a n n a   O s s i n g e r
-- 2012-04-13T21:35:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/cboe-hires-chief-compliance-officer-amid-u-s-investigation-1-.html
CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE)  named a former
Securities and Exchange Commission lawyer to oversee compliance
at its exchanges, a month after announcing a federal inquiry and
the resignation of a senior executive.  Alexandra M. Albright, an attorney with Kirkland & Ellis
LLP, will start April 23 as chief compliance officer, the
Chicago-based company said today in a statement. Albright worked
at the SEC from 2001 to 2006, most recently in the enforcement
division’s office of market surveillance. The exchange operator
has posted 10 job descriptions since early March for regulatory
and surveillance positions it wants to fill, its website shows.  The owner of the  Chicago Board Options Exchange  hired
Albright a month after saying Patrick Fay, a senior vice
president for member and regulatory services, quit. The exchange
operator disclosed in February that the SEC is investigating
whether CBOE complied with its obligations as a self-regulatory
organization. SROs are required to write rules for their
exchanges, monitor trading and seek to ensure that they and
their customers aren’t breaking securities laws.  “Hiring an outsider is probably the correct decision given
the current SEC investigation into CBOE,” Howard Tai, a senior
analyst at Aite Group LLC in  Boston , said in a phone interview.
“She has the regulatory background and the legal background to
take on the new role. It will give CBOE a fresh start in the
compliance area.”  Exchange Compliance  Albright, filling a newly created position, will be
responsible for establishing and implementing policies that
ensure the company’s exchanges comply with their own rules and
those of the SEC and Commodity Futures Trading Commission, CBOE
said in the statement. She will be in charge of educating
exchange employees about compliance matters, it said.  CBOE Holdings  runs two options venues, a stock market and a
futures exchange. Timothy Thompson is the company’s chief
regulatory officer.  Fay had been among 10 “executive officers” listed on
CBOE’s website. He rejoined the company in 2004 after 19 months
at NQLX LLC. Before that, he spent 18 years with CBOE, according
to the website. CBOE was founded in 1973 as the first U.S.
market for options. The company’s two exchanges have the largest
combined share of equity derivatives with 28.4 percent of
volume, according to data compiled by Chicago-based OCC.  Website Postings  CBOE has been searching for a deputy chief regulatory
officer and chief examiner. Descriptions of the former job
 posted  on the company’s website on March 6 said the person would
focus on surveillance, investigative and examination topics
related to CBOE’s securities markets and the enforcement of
exchange and SEC rules. The person filling the examiner role
would conduct surveillance of firms authorized to trade on
CBOE’s markets, according to a March 12 job  description .  The company published job descriptions for an examiner and
senior examiner on March 12. From March 22 through yesterday,
CBOE posted profiles of another 6 regulatory jobs. They include
 manager  for regulation related to the  Options Regulatory
Surveillance Authority , which is responsible for insider trading
investigations across options exchanges. Jobs are also available
for a  manager  for regulation connected with the CBOE Futures
Exchange as well as an  investigator  focused on examinations and
investigations related to the CFE.  Priority, Allocation  The CBOE website didn’t specify whether these are new jobs
or positions meant to fill vacancies. The information about jobs
goes back only to October.  CBOE Holdings had 596 employees at the end of 2011
including 82 involved in regulatory activities, the company said
in an annual filing on Feb. 28. The firm had 261 people working
on systems development and operations, 93 who supported trading
and 160 in business development and areas such as finance and
management, the filing said.  The company’s market regulation division contacted firms
that do business on the CBOE to examine “apparent violations”
of rules over three years through January, Dow Jones reported on
April 5, citing a letter it reviewed. The inquiry related to the
handling of stock-option orders including how they’re
prioritized and allocated, the newswire said.  The SEC  approved  changes to CBOE’s electronic handling of
stock-option orders on April 6. The exchange’s proposal altered
the definition of stock-options orders and so-called complex
orders, and factors related to how and when the products trade.
CBOE will require the stock portion of stock-option orders to be
sent to a broker instead of routing it to the exchange’s equity
market itself. It will also implement price checks for the
products and individual components or legs of those trades to
avoid transactions far from the prevailing bid and offer levels,
CBOE said.  Regulatory Indepdendence  CBOE Holdings published a  notice  outlining the independence
of its regulatory services division from the business interests
of its exchanges and the firms trading on its markets last
August. Regulatory decisions would be made “without regard” to
those interests, the notice said.  Exchanges’ role managing trading and overseeing their
markets has been questioned in recent years as the owners of the
New York Stock Exchange and Nasdaq Stock Market became for-
profit companies focused on the needs of shareholders.  NYSE
Euronext (NYX) , Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.,  CME Group Inc. (CME)  and
IntercontinentalExchange Inc. are public companies. CBOE
Holdings joined them in mid-June 2010.  Joanne Moffic-Silver, general counsel at CBOE Holdings,
said at a Securities and Exchange Commission Historical Society
 panel discussion  about self-regulation earlier that month that
the company was coping with conflicts that affect exchanges when
they become public corporations. CBOE will succeed in balancing
the competing demands it faces, she said.  “The purpose of a stock company is to serve the purposes
of the shareholders, and maximize the profits of the
shareholders,” Moffic-Silver said. “At the same time, as a
self-regulatory organization, we have the purpose of expending
lots of dollars to ensure that regulation is strong and
effective.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joanna Ossinger in New York at 
 jossinger@bloomberg.net ;
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  