-- Chilean Peso Declines as Copper Falls on China’s Slowing Growth
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-04-13T18:35:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/chilean-peso-declines-as-copper-falls-on-china-s-slowing-growth.html
Chile ’s peso weakened as copper,
the country’s biggest export, fell after slower-than-forecast
growth in China curbed the outlook for demand.  The peso declined 0.6 percent to 484.95 per  U.S. dollar 
today and posted a 0.2 percent decline in the past five days.
Copper for May delivery sank as much as 3.1 percent in  New York 
to $3.6055 per pound. This week, the price of the metal fell
below $3.70 for the first time since January.  China’s economy  grew 8.1 percent in the first quarter from
a year earlier, less than the 8.4 percent median estimate of
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg and the slowest in almost three
years. Copper makes up more than half of Chile’s exports and
 China  bought more than a third of the country’s $11.6 billion of
exports of the metal in the fourth quarter of last year.  “Less growth in China impacts copper, which has fallen
below the important $3.70-a-pound level,” said Eugenio Cortes,
head of currency forwards at EuroAmerica Corredores de Bolsa SA.  Brazil ’s real fell 0.8 percent this week, the Colombian
peso 0.1 percent and the  Mexican peso  1.3 percent.  “The dollar in Chile isn’t reflecting the negative
external environment, because the local market is betting on the
central bank raising rates,” Cortes said. “On days like
yesterday when things are calm the dollar falls fast, but the
news from China today has stopped it breaking its range.”  Forwards Market  Offshore investors in the forwards market had a $6.9
billion bet against the Chilean peso on April 11, according to
central bank data published today. Local investors had a $15.8
billion long position, down from $17.5 billion at the end of
March.  Chilean breakeven inflation and interest-rate swaps
retreated this week even after the central bank said it expected
the path of  interest rates  to match that priced into financial
markets.  Two-year breakeven inflation fell seven basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, today to 3.25 percent. Two-year swap
rates sank nine basis points to 5.31 percent, the lowest since
March 22.  Swap rates in developed markets also declined today. The
U.S. five-year swap rate fell two basis points, the five-year
swap rate in pounds fell three basis points and the five-year
swap rate in Australian dollars plunged 10 basis points to 4.22
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  