-- Chile’s Curauma Soars on Changes to Valparaiso Zoning Regulation
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-04-13T19:37:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/chile-s-curauma-soars-on-changes-to-valparaiso-zoning-regulation.html
Curauma SA (CURAUMA) , a Chilean real estate
developer, rose the most since September in Santiago trading on
bets that zoning law changes may boost the value of its assets.  Curauma increased 8.8 percent to 21 pesos. Trading was
suspended after the stock rose a record 24 percent on an
intraday basis. The Santiago and Valparaiso bourses and Chile’s
electronic exchange all agreed to suspend trading in the stock
at 9:51 a.m. local time pending a possible explanation from the
company on the record gain. Trading resumed at 12:49 p.m. after
the company sent a statement to the exchanges.  The increase followed a decree yesterday changing zoning
laws in Chile’s Valparaiso region, allowing Curauma to build
homes in areas that initially had been only for agricultural
use, it said in a statement posted today on the website of the
Santiago stock exchange.  “The change to zoning laws will be very positive for the
company, as we have said in the past,” Curauma said in the
statement.  Curauma’s main asset is a real estate project of the same
name located 15 kilometers (9 miles) from the city of
Valparaiso, or 104 kilometers from Santiago, and which spans
4,300 hectares of partially developed residential, commercial
and industrial areas, according to the company’s website.  Chile ’s securities regulator had suspended trading in
Curauma’s shares between April 2 and April 9 after its external
auditor refused to vouch for the validity of the company’s
annual report due to asset valuation discrepancies.  Curauma gave a mandate to S.W. Business to seek strategic
partners willing to inject funds in the project, it said in a
statement April 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  