-- China Murder Suspect’s Sisters Ran $126 Million Empire
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-14T01:12:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/china-murder-suspect-s-sisters-ran-126-million-business-empire.html
The sisters of Gu Kailai, who is
suspected of murdering a U.K. citizen and is the wife of
disgraced Chinese official Bo Xilai, controlled a web of
businesses from Beijing to  Hong Kong  to the Caribbean worth at
least $126 million, regulatory and corporate filings show.  Gu Kailai, 53, was the youngest of five daughters of a
People’s Liberation Army general, according to a Chinese-
language  website  affiliated with the Communist Youth League. She
rose from a butcher’s assistant during the 1966-1976 Cultural
Revolution to become a lawyer who argued cases in the U.S.  Now China says she is suspected of murdering businessman
Neil Heywood in November, and her husband this week was
suspended from the Communist Party’s elite Politburo.  Her sisters focused on business rather than politics. Gu Wangjiang, 64, the oldest, is a Hong Kong national who owns $114
million in shares of an eastern  China  printing company,
according to a Shenzhen  exchange filing  tracked by Bloomberg.  Wangjiang and her sister, Gu Wangning, serve as directors
of several other companies, including some that Hong Kong
company registry records trace to the  British Virgin Islands .
They also have made millions selling Hong Kong real estate.
Another sister, Gu Zhengxie, 62, was a top official at one of
the country’s biggest state-owned companies.  Their wealth -- and the fact they put some assets offshore
where ownership is harder to trace -- illustrate how the
politically connected thrive in China, a country where Bo
himself last month warned of the dangers of a rising wealth gap.
While many of the country’s top leaders, including President  Hu Jintao  and Premier  Wen Jiabao , have children who are top
executives, the Gu sisters have left a paper trail that details
some of their activities.  Old Networks  “Networks have always been of prime importance in China
dating back to imperial times,” said Jonathan Fenby, author of
the forthcoming book “Tiger Head, Snake Tails: China Today.”  “Economic growth has spawned a web of people connected to
the centers of power who have profited, and who often choose to
move their wealth to places where they feel it is safer given
the risk of political reversals of fortune, as seen in the
defenestration of Bo Xilai,” he said in an e-mail.  Gu Wangjiang is chairman of publicly traded  Tungkong
Security Printing Co. (002117) , a Jinan, Shandong-based company,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It in turn controls a
chain of other companies across China linked to her Hong Kong
holding company, Hongkong Hitoro Holdings Ltd., according to a
September 2010 share  prospectus  that also says Wangjiang is a
Hong Kong national. Hitoro’s Chinese characters mean “lots of
happiness coming.”  Tungkong Shares  Hitoro’s 37,827,385 shares in Tungkong, which also counts
government bureaus and state-owned companies as customers, were
worth 720.2 million yuan ($114.3 million) as of the close of
trading in Shenzhen yesterday.  Efforts to reach Wangjiang and Wangning were unsuccessful.
A man answering the phone at Tungkong’s Jinan headquarters said
Gu Wangjiang wasn’t there. During a visit yesterday to the 37th
floor offices of the sisters’ companies in the Hong Kong offices
of Hitoro and Hangang Worldwide, a man who declined to be
identified said the sisters were not there.  Boris Chan, listed on Hitoro’s corporate filings as an
official of the company, declined to comment when reached by
telephone. A faxed request for an interview went unanswered.  In 1992, Hitoro purchased a luxury 16th-floor apartment in
Parkview Crescent, a Hong Kong complex, for HK$13.3 million
($1.7 million). Gu Wangjiang sold it for HK$88 million early
last year, land registry documents show.  Island Postal Boxes  The buyer was Topwell Rich Ltd., a Hong Kong company owned
by British Virgin Islands-based Ampere Management Ltd., the land
registry records show. Hitoro’s controlling shareholder,
Infomatic Resources Ltd., shares the same post office box
address in the offshore jurisdiction, according to a Nov. 21
filing with the company registry.  So does the owner of Hangang Worldwide Ltd., a Hong Kong-
based company affiliated with a Chinese steelmaker for which Gu
Wangning also acts as a director, a Feb. 8 filing shows.  That’s not unusual: P.O. boxes in jurisdictions such as the
 Cayman Islands  and British Virgin Islands can serve as the
address for thousands of companies. While the majority of tax
haven-based companies are set up for legitimate reasons,
offshore jurisdictions have been linked to multiple frauds and
corruption cases, including the $1.7 billion scam at  Japan ’s
 Olympus Corp. (7733)  that was unearthed last year.  Nine Companies?  Gu Wangjiang, known as Kuk Mong Kong in Hong Kong, has held
directorships of at least nine companies in the former British
territory over the course of more than two decades, also
including Panama-registered Sitoro Shipping Enterprises Co. and
a venture with Malaysian billionaire Vincent Tan’s Berjaya Group
Bhd., Hong Kong registry and bond documents show.  Hitoro also invested in an $85-million industrial park in
the eastern China coastal city of Rizhao in a joint venture with
Isocab N.V., a  subsidiary  of German steelmaker  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) .
Tungkong’s 2010 prospectus puts the value of its investment at
$47.6 million. That investment is part of the underlying assets
of Tungkong, the printing company.  Through Hitoro, Wangjiang and Wangning, who retained her
Chinese citizenship, owned Beijing Jiahua Investment Consulting
Co. An Internet search shows the  address  in room 1430 of a
building southwest of Tiananmen Square. The room numbers on the
fourth floor of the budget hotel stop at 1423, a visit shows.  While the extent of the wealth of China’s political elite
is unknown, “the few figures available suggest the amounts are
often staggering,” said  Kenneth Lieberthal , director of the
John L. Thornton China Center at the  Brookings Institution  in
 Washington . “It comes from the state being involved pervasively
in the economy.”  Generated by Families  “The wealth is generally not money they themselves have,”
he said of  Chinese government leaders . “It is money their
families generate. The families of various members of the
Politburo have very large assets.”  Gu Zhengxie, the second-oldest sister, became a Communist
Party member and rose to become the deputy party secretary of
Beijing-based  China National Machinery Industry Corp (CNMICZ) ., a
centrally administered state-owned company with assets of 139.2
billion yuan as of March, 2011, according to its latest bond
prospectus. The conglomerate makes everything from power grids
to tractors.  The final sister, Gu Dan, is  married  to Li Xiaoxue, until
last year the top discipline official at the China Securities
Regulatory Commission, according to a report on the official
website of Zuoquan county in Shanxi, the home province of both
the Gu and Li families.  Bo Guagua, the son of Gu Kailai and Bo Xilai, was  escorted 
from his home by law enforcement officers in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts  late in the night on April 12, the Telegraph
reported, citing a source it didn’t name. Bo Guagua is a student
at Harvard University’s John F. Kennedy School of Government.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;
Natasha Khan in Hong Kong at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Richardson in Hong Kong at 
 brichardson8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  