-- China Property-Sales Drop Shows Risk of Hard Landing
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-13T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/china-property-sales-drop-shows-risk-of-hard-landing.html
China ’s 18 percent first-quarter
drop in home sales contributed to the slowest economic expansion
in almost three years, highlighting the challenge for leaders
who want to curb property prices without sinking growth.  The value of homes sold declined to 709.9 billion yuan
($112.7 billion) from a year earlier, the National Bureau of
Statistics said in Beijing yesterday.  Gross domestic product  in
the world’s second-biggest economy expanded a below-forecast 8.1
percent from a year earlier, decelerating for a fifth quarter.  Premier Wen Jiabao yesterday reiterated the government will
maintain property curbs while ensuring the economy has enough
investment to support growth. The stance on real estate risks a
so-called  hard landing  unless authorities start to reverse their
position, said Fred Hu, a former chairman of  Greater China  for
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  “For now the government says it wants to maintain a hard
line,” said Hu, chairman of Primavera Capital, a Beijing-based
private-equity firm he founded. “Sooner or later they will have
to bow to the reality if they don’t want to have a prolonged
economic slowdown.”  The benchmark Shanghai Composite  Index (SHCOMP)  rose 0.4 percent to
close at a three-week high. Analysts at Bank of America Corp.,
Nomura Holdings Inc. and IHS Global Insight said the first
quarter may mark a trough, partly on speculation the government
will loosen credit by lowering banks’ required reserves.  Reserve-Ratio Cuts  Societe Generale SA’s Yao Wei said growth may decelerate to
7.8 percent in the second quarter on tightening in the  property
market  and a further slowdown in housing investment. Standard
Chartered Plc economists gave the same forecast for GDP growth
this quarter and projected four more reserve-ratio cuts of 50
basis points each this year. That would bring the ratio to 18.5
percent for the largest banks.  “Faced with a continued weakening of domestic demand,
Beijing will have to step up easing measures,” the Standard
Chartered analysts said in a note yesterday.  China’s State Council, or Cabinet, pledged to stick with
existing property controls and prepare policy tools to cope with
economic challenges, according to a government statement
yesterday that summarized a meeting chaired by Wen.  The fundamentals of the economy remain sound with growth
“within a reasonable range” even as the domestic expansion
faces “downward pressures,” the government said, pledging to
“maintain an appropriate level of investment.” Macroeconomic
policies have “relatively large room to maneuver,” according
to the statement, which didn’t repeat a pledge to maintain
“prudent” monetary policy and “proactive” fiscal policy.  More Loosening  The statement “appears to be a clear signal that more
credit loosening will follow,”  Mark Williams , London-based
chief Asia economist at Capital Economics Ltd., said in a
research note yesterday.  Other data this week showed an economic pickup toward the
end of the quarter. New yuan  lending  was the highest in a year
and money-supply growth quickened in March, while industrial
production and retail-sales gains accelerated.  The property-market tightening “prevented the government
from adopting more measures to support domestic demand
earlier,” said Helen Qiao, chief Greater China economist at
Morgan Stanley in Hong Kong. At the same time, the government is
relaxing some measures “by stealth,” with support for first-
time home buyers and expedited construction of low-cost housing
projects, she said.  Discounted Loans  Banks in the cities of Beijing,  Shanghai  and Guangzhou are
offering as much as a 15 percent discount off the benchmark
 interest rate  on loans to first-home buyers, China Securities
Journal reported April 12, citing property agents it didn’t
identify. The central bank said last month it will ensure “loan
demand from first-home families” is met.  Chinese developers including Fosun International Ltd. and
Sino-Ocean Land Holdings Ltd. are setting up property funds to
diversify their sources of revenue as real-estate curbs have led
to a cash shortage, company executives said last month.  Investments in homes, office buildings, malls and other
real estate gained 24 percent to 1.09 trillion yuan from January
to March, according to the statistics bureau, slower than the 35
percent gain in the year-earlier period. New property
construction increased 0.3 percent to 399.5 million square
meters (4.3 billion square feet).  Sheng Laiyun, spokesman for the statistics bureau, said at
a press conference yesterday that “controlling property bubbles
will certainly affect relevant investments or even housing-
related consumption.”  “But from a medium- to long-term perspective, the property
curbs don’t conflict with the goal of economic growth,” as the
curbs are meant to “maintain steady and healthy development”
of the housing market and sustainable growth, Sheng said.  Housing Difficulties  China’s private housing market may see its “most difficult
period” in the first half with “some stabilization” after
that, JPMorgan Chase & Co. economists led by Zhu Haibin in  Hong
Kong  said in a research note yesterday.  The bank cut its forecast for  China’s economy  to an 8.2
percent expansion in 2012 from 8.4 percent, citing the first
quarter’s “weaker-than-expected” performance.  “The property sector is where most concerns lie,”
Williams said in the note. “The biggest near-term threat to
growth is that construction activity does stall.”  -- Kevin Hamlin , Victoria Ruan. With assistance from Bonnie Cao
in Shanghai. Editors: Scott Lanman, Nerys Avery  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at 
 vruan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  