-- China Sovereign Bonds Gain as Slower Growth Boosts Easing Chance
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-13T02:44:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/china-sovereign-bonds-gain-as-slower-growth-boosts-easing-chance.html
China ’s government bonds gained
after data showed gross domestic product increased by less than
estimated in the first quarter, spurring speculation monetary
policy will be loosened further to shore up growth.  The economy  expanded  8.1 percent, the least since June 2009,
compared with 8.9 percent in the fourth quarter, the statistics
bureau said today. That was less than the 8.4 percent median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The central bank  injected  a
net 112 billion yuan ($17.8 billion) of capital into the
financial system this week, compared with 25 billion yuan last
week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The GDP data is good news for the government bond market
and yields will decline,” said Liu Junyu, a bond analyst in
Shenzhen at China Merchants Bank Co, the nation’s sixth-biggest
lender. “There is a high possibility that the central bank will
cut the reserve ratio in April.”  The yield on the 3.94 percent government bond due January
2021 dropped three basis points to 3.52 percent as of 10:27 a.m.
in  Shanghai , the first decline this week, according to the
Interbank Funding Center. The yield rose one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, this week.  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, dropped one basis point to 3.79 percent,
according to a weighted average rate compiled by the National
Interbank Funding Center. It fell 44 basis points this week.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, was little
changed at 3.26 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The contract rose 12 basis points this week.  --Judy Chen. Editors: Andrew Janes, Ven Ram  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Judy Chen  in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 