-- China’s Less-Than-Forecast 8.1% Growth May Signal Easing
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-13T04:55:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/china-s-economy-grows-less-than-estimated-8-1-.html
China ’s growth slowed more than
forecast last quarter to the least in almost three years,
prompting economists to predict a rebound as Premier  Wen Jiabao 
loosens policy to counter weak domestic and European demand.  Gross domestic product  in the world’s second-biggest
economy expanded 8.1 percent from a year earlier after an 8.9
percent gain in the fourth quarter, the  National Bureau of
Statistics  said in Beijing today.  An unexpected surge in March new yuan loans shows the
ruling Communist Party is trying to avoid a deeper growth slide
amid a once-a-decade power transfer to younger leaders. Pickups
in industrial production and retail sales reported today may
limit concerns that the world recovery is losing steam after job
gains in the U.S. lagged forecasts and Europe’s sovereign-debt
crisis threatened to worsen.  “The Chinese economy may be starting to bottom out and
possibly will reaccelerate going forward,” said  Shane Oliver ,
Sydney-based head of investment strategy at AMP Capital
Investors Ltd., which has almost $100 billion under management.
“The pickup in lending in March and the slight gain in momentum
for industrial production and retail sales suggest that growth
might pick up in the months ahead.”  The Shanghai Composite Index pared gains following the
report, rising 0.2 percent at the 11:30 a.m. local-time break
after advancing as much as 0.5 percent. The MSCI Asia Pacific
Index rose to a one-week high and South  Korea ’s won gained after
a rocket launched by  North Korea  broke up and fell into the sea.  ICBC Rises  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd., the world’s
biggest lender by market value, jumped 2.8 percent in  Hong Kong .
Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd., the nation’s largest producer of
the metal, climbed 3.3 percent.  China’s government bonds gained, with the yield on the 3.94
percent bond due January 2021 falling three basis points to 3.52
percent as of 10:27 a.m.  The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 41
economists was for an 8.4 percent first-quarter expansion.
Growth trailed forecasts by the most since the third quarter of
2008, based on Bloomberg calculations.  Analysts at Bank of America Corp., Nomura Holdings Inc. and
IHS Global Insight said the first quarter may mark a trough.  China and other countries in Asia are increasingly
important for global growth, with expansion in developing East
 Asia  and Pacific nations forecast by the  World Bank  to be triple
the entire world’s pace this year.  India Production  Indian industrial production rose less than predicted in
February, a report showed yesterday, with January’s figure
revised lower because of a data error. Singapore’s economy
rebounded last quarter, the government said today.  A moderation in China could drag down growth in commodity-
exporting nations including  Australia , which grew at half the
pace economists forecast in the fourth quarter. It may also
weigh on sales of foreign companies such as Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG, the world’s largest luxury automaker, which delivered
more cars in China than in the U.S. for the first time last
quarter.  Wen in March pared this year’s economic-growth target to
7.5 percent, the lowest since 2004, as the government seeks to
cut reliance on exports and  capital spending  and make expansion
more sustainable.  At the same time, economists at Deutsche Bank AG, Nomura
Holdings Inc. and Morgan Stanley last month raised their China
growth forecasts for 2012 partly on anticipation of policy
loosening.  Money-Supply Growth  Data yesterday showed new yuan  lending  was the highest in a
year and money-supply growth quickened in March. Local-currency-
denominated loans were 1.01 trillion yuan ($160.1 billion), the
People’s Bank of China said, exceeding all 28 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Wen has said economic policies will be fine-tuned as needed
even as he prolongs a campaign to curb property prices and
speculation. The value of first-quarter home sales fell 17.5
percent. During a visit to Fujian and Guangxi provinces April 1
to 3, the premier pledged to push ahead on key investment
projects, accelerate export tax-rebate payments and ensure
“reasonable” liquidity.  “More monetary easing will be needed to facilitate a
controlled deceleration,” said Yao Wei, a Hong Kong-based
economist at Societe Generale SA and the only analyst who
correctly predicted the first-quarter figure. She said growth
will slow to 7.8 percent this quarter and pick up to 8.1 percent
in the third period.  Slowing Yuan Gains  The government has also slowed gains in the yuan to help
cushion exporters against sluggish demand from developed
countries. The currency is little changed against the  U.S.
dollar  this year after a 4.7 percent rise in 2011. It
strengthened 0.1 percent today.  Industrial  production  increased 11.9 percent in March from
a year earlier, up from an 11.4 percent gain in January and
February combined, today’s statistics bureau report showed.
Retail sales advanced 15.2 percent in March, compared with 14.7
percent in January and February.  Fixed-asset investment excluding rural households rose 20.9
percent in the first quarter, compared with the 21 percent
median estimate of economists.  “Growth will stabilize and recover modestly over the rest
of the year,” said  Brian Jackson , a Hong Kong-based economist
with Royal Bank of Canada, who forecast an 8 percent rise in GDP.
“External conditions look set to improve in coming months, and
domestic growth should also get a boost as the impact of
previous policy tightening fades and is replaced by the impact
of more accommodative policy in recent months.”  South Korea Rate  Elsewhere in Asia today, the  Bank of Korea  kept borrowing
costs unchanged for a 10th straight month after North Korea’s
launch and as austerity measures in developed economies limit
demand for exports. Governor Kim Choong Soo and his board held
the benchmark seven-day repurchase rate at 3.25 percent.  In the U.S., the cost of living probably rose at a slower
pace in March as the run-up in energy prices lost steam,
economists said before a report today. The consumer-price index
increased 0.3 percent last month after rising 0.4 percent in
February, according to the median forecast of 80 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  In  Europe ,  Italy  may report a slide in industrial
production in February, a Bloomberg News survey shows.  China Reserve Ratio  China has lowered banks’ required-reserve ratio twice since
November to boost liquidity and spur loan growth. At the same
time, authorities have refrained from cutting  interest rates 
amid inflation concerns. The central bank may lower the  ratio ,
currently 20.5 percent for large lenders, by another 100 basis
points this quarter after two cuts since November, according to
the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey last month.  “The economic growth slowdown is a natural result of the
government’s moves to curb inflation and control the  property
market ,” said  Fan Jianping , Beijing-based chief economist at
the State Information Center, a researcher under the
government’s National Development and Reform Commission.  Sheng Laiyun, spokesman for China’s statistics bureau, said
at a press conference today that “major economic indicators in
March all improved from the previous two months” and he had “a
lot of confidence in achieving relatively fast growth” this
year.  Even so, he said that “great attention should be paid to
some outstanding contradictions and problems” in the economy,
including export growth and increasing operating difficulties at
some companies.  --Zheng Lifei. With assistance from Li Yanping, Ailing Tan,
Victoria Ruan,  Kevin Hamlin  and Zhang Dingmin in Beijing and
Bonnie Cao in  Shanghai . Editors: Scott Lanman, Nerys Avery  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  