-- Citadel, Millennium Above $115 Billion With Rule Change
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2012-04-13T17:00:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/citadel-soars-to-115-billion-with-reporting-rule-change.html
Citadel Advisors LLC and Millennium
Management LLC said their assets soared ninefold when tallied
under a new rule that requires hedge funds to disclose
investments financed through borrowings.  Citadel, run by  Ken Griffin  out of  Chicago , reported $115.2
billion of regulatory assets in a March 30 filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, compared with $12.6 billion
of net assets. Millennium, founded by Israel Englander,
disclosed comparable figures of $119 billion and $13.5 billion
as of year-end.  The two firms are among more than 1,200 private fund
advisers that have registered this year with the SEC and begun
providing a more comprehensive count on the assets they manage,
including those acquired through the use of borrowed money,
under rules aimed at curbing systemic financial market risks.
The filings, which regulators may use to identify firms they
want to monitor more closely, suggest the largest funds have
returned to the level of leverage used before the financial
crisis.  “People are worried about whether the larger numbers will
make them more of a regulatory target,” said Michael Sherman, a
partner in the financial-services practice of the law firm
 Dechert LLP (1154L)  in Washington. “The systemic regulators will use
this,” along with data that firms must file confidentially with
the SEC, “to try to stop the next great market blowup.”  April Emspak, a spokeswoman for New York-based Millennium,
and Devon Spurgeon, a spokeswoman for Citadel, both declined to
comment.  Loans, Short Sales  Under the Dodd-Frank Act, signed by U.S. President  Barack
Obama  in July 2010, Congress required hedge and buyout funds
with assets of $150 million or more to register with the SEC by
March 30. It was one of several provisions designed to help
regulators control risks to the financial system, which became
evident when the 2008 failure of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) 
caused banks to stop lending to each other because they were
worried counterparties owned too many toxic assets.  In seeking to adopt a uniform method for determining who
met the threshold, regulators instructed firms to count assets
that most were excluding from tallies on size, including
holdings obtained through loans, short sales and hedging.
Traditionally, hedge-fund advisers have quoted a net number,
comprising investor capital plus investment gains and losses,
when disclosing their assets under management.  More Than Double  In short sales, investors borrow assets to sell them in
anticipation that they can be repurchased at a lower price later
and they can pocket the difference. Hedging includes the
purchase of offsetting positions to limit risk in a trade.  While some fund managers only gave information on their
gross assets, 31 of the 50 largest also disclosed their net
assets in a separate section known as the client brochure. For
these advisers, gross assets of $949 billion were more than
double their net assets of $422 billion.  That indicates  hedge funds  may be using as much leverage as
they did prior to the 2008 financial crisis. On average, hedge
funds held total assets that were double their net capital as
recently as 2007, said Daniel Celeghin, a partner at Casey Quirk
& Associates LLC, a Darien, Connecticut, adviser to asset
managers.  Not all of the difference between net and gross assets may
be explained by leverage, because the SEC’s gross number also
includes proprietary stakes that money managers hold in their
own funds as well as assets that don’t get charged a management
fee. The SEC’s calculating method can lead to double counting of
assets at funds, such as Citadel, that include multiple
entities.  Fed Oversight  Even so, the higher asset calculation could lead to more
regulation for some firms. Investment advisers with at least
$150 million of private fund assets under management will have
to make an annual filing to the SEC known as Form PF that
provides information on their performance, assets and leverage.
Those with $1.5 billion in hedge-fund assets under management
will have to make a more detailed filing and do so at the end of
each quarter rather than once a year.  Moreover, the U.S. Financial Stability Oversight Council
approved a final rule on April 3 that said non-bank financial
institutions would be evaluated for possible oversight by the
 Federal Reserve  if they have more than $50 billion of
consolidated assets and meet any one of five other thresholds.  ‘Systemically Relevant’  Robert Plaze, a deputy director in the SEC’s division of
 investment management , said money managers with other types of
clients, such as wealthy individuals or institutions with
separate accounts, have always included assets purchased with
margin loans in the totals reported through their annual Form
ADV. In extending the practice to managers of private funds, the
SEC also wanted to ensure that managers didn’t use leverage as a
way of avoiding reporting requirements.  “If we used net assets, the more risk you have and the
more systemically relevant you are, the less likely it would be
that you have to report” information required under Dodd-Frank,
Plaze said in a telephone interview.  Before the new rule was put in place, the 50 largest
advisers to hedge funds that had voluntarily registered with the
SEC, including  Ray Dalio ’s Bridgewater Associates LP and Seth Klarman’s Baupost Group LLC, reported combined assets of $613
billion for 2010, according to SEC data.  The 50 largest hedge-fund advisers registered under the new
rules reported regulatory assets of $1.35 trillion at the end of
2011, the SEC data show. The two groups aren’t directly
comparable because they include some different firms.  Private Funds  The rankings include firms that have at least 50 percent of
their assets under management in private funds, while excluding
those that oversee a variety of vehicles, such as mutual funds
and separate investor accounts. Banks with large asset-
management divisions, such as  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , aren’t
included in the tally, nor are firms such as  Blackstone Group LP (BX) 
and KKR & Co. that oversee both buyout and hedge funds.  “This is one of the largest changes to the way assets
under management are calculated historically,” said Sidney
Wigfall, co-managing partner at SC Advisors-Barge Consulting
Group, a Chicago-based firm that advises money managers on
regulatory compliance. “The SEC wanted to be able to see firms’
asset exposure to both short side trades as well as trades that
involve using leverage, regardless of the amount.”  The financial stability council, a panel headed by Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  that was created to monitor
systemic risk, said the its five other thresholds for possible
oversight include a  leverage ratio  in which a firm has $15 of
assets for each $1 of equity. Other thresholds include $3.5
billion of derivative liabilities or $20 billion of total debt
outstanding.  ‘Pretty Daunting’  “All of a sudden, not only is the SEC going to regulate
me, but the Fed is going to be at my door,” said Dechert’s
Sherman. “That is pretty daunting.”  In practical terms, the SEC rule meant that fund managers
had to measure all assets on their balance sheets rather than
the industry equivalent of net equity, according to John Tavss,
a partner in the investment-management group at the law firm
Seward & Kissel LLP in  New York . Because the use of borrowed
money, or leverage, boosts both potential profits and losses,
investors may conclude that firms with a big gap between their
regulatory and net assets are taking on more risk.  ‘Heavily Levered’  “If you are heavily levered, obviously that will result in
you having a larger gross asset number,” said Gary Kaminsky, a
principal in the business advisory services group at Rothstein
Kass, a Roseland,  New Jersey , accounting firm that audits hedge
funds. That’s because, under the SEC approach, “all that
matters is what’s on the asset side of the balance sheet,”
Kaminsky said.  Hedge funds are relying less on margin loans from prime
brokers, the securities firms that provide credit and facilitate
trading, and more on  repurchase agreements , leveraged exchange-
traded funds, and derivatives such as total return swaps,
according to Josh Galper, the managing principal at Finadium
LLC, a Concord, Massachusetts, investment research and
consulting firm.  “Leverage is down across the board from the perspective of
borrowing from a prime broker,” Galper said in a telephone
interview. “It’s tough to measure how much embedded leverage
funds are using.”  ‘Zero Risk’  The amount of leverage that an adviser uses, and thus its
ratio of regulatory to net assets, is often tied to the firm’s
primary trading strategies. Prime brokers are often willing to
lend more money to firms that make bets that aren’t tied to
market swings, said Leonard Zacks, a Chicago-based  money manager 
who oversees about $2 billion.  Citadel, for instance, generally seeks to follow strategies
that have a low correlation to stock and credit markets. An
example would be an index arbitrage trade in which a fund
manager bets that futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index are
cheap relative to the price of the individual stocks that
comprise the benchmark.  “From the prime broker’s point of view, they have an
almost zero risk portfolio,” said Zacks, who has been running a
market-neutral strategy for 15 years. He said most market-
neutral strategies use leverage of three to four times capital.  Citadel’s gross assets were also nine times its net figure
back in May 2008, when the company was bulking up on convertible
bonds as part of a relative-value strategy designed to profit
from small price differences in related securities. The firm had
gross assets of $145 billion at the time before the bets went
awry, leaving clients with a 55 percent loss for the year.  AQR, SAC  AQR Capital Management LLC, the money-management firm
headed by Cliff Asness, reported in an April filing that it had
regulatory assets of $75.6 billion and net assets of $43.5
billion at the end of 2011. D.E. Shaw & Co., founded by  David Shaw , reported regulatory assets of $49.3 billion and net assets
of $16.5 billion.  James Simons ’ Renaissance Technologies LLC
disclosed $49 billion in regulatory assets and $20 billion in
net assets. SAC Capital Advisors LP, run by  Steven Cohen , had
$43.8 billion of regulatory assets at Dec. 31 compared with $13
billion of net assets as of Nov. 30, its filing shows.  “Almost everyone will understand the difference as
leverage,” Celeghin at Casey Quirk said. Some hedge funds “are
concerned that this might scare some of their LPs because the
difference in assets under management is going to be so big,”
he said.  Spokesmen for all of the firms declined to comment.  Trade Group Opposition  The SEC’s switch to gross assets was opposed by the Managed
Funds Association, which has a presentation on its website
stating that the concept isn’t an accurate indicator of investor
capital at risk, leverage or the riskiness of a particular fund.
The trade group, which has offices in  Washington  and New York,
says the traditional net number better reflects client assets at
risk, and many funds continue to report both the larger and
smaller figures in their Form ADVs, albeit in separate sections
of the filing.  “It may be confusing to some investors,” said Tavss, the
lawyer at Seward & Kissel. “Investors could look at some of
these regulatory filings which will be publicly available and
managers will report regulatory assets that are potentially
significantly higher than the net assets investors thought the
manager had.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  