-- Clemens Prosecutors Take Second Shot at Perjury Retrial
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   M i c h a e l   R i l e y
-- 2012-04-14T00:44:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/clemens-prosecutors-take-second-shot-at-perjury-retrial.html
Roger Clemens , the former New York
Yankees pitcher accused of lying about steroid use, saw just two
days of the government’s case against him last year before a
prosecution error put an end to his perjury trial.  None of the key witnesses had taken the stand, leaving each
side with little preview of the opposition’s strategy as
Clemens’s retrial is set to begin next week in federal court in
Washington.  “In this case, because the trial started, then stopped as
quickly as it did, I’m not sure there’s a huge advantage to
either side,” said  Benjamin Brafman , a New York lawyer who
successfully defended former International Monetary Fund chief
Dominique Strauss-Kahn against rape charges.  The last nine months have produced some twists and turns,
however, including dozens of new witness interviews and a bulky
stack of documents and transcripts that Clemens’ lawyer,  Rusty Hardin , said may alter the course of the new trial for the
seven-time Cy Young award winner, which begins with jury
selection on April 16.  “They are getting a do-over and they are getting a do-over
as a result of their own misconduct,” Hardin said during a
pretrial hearing today in federal court in Washington.  He suggested, however, that the new interviews may also
raise additional questions about a key prosecution witness,
Brian McNamee, Clemens’ former trainer.  Sealed Information  U.S. District Judge  Reggie Walton  agreed today to keep
under seal a motion outlining information about McNamee, some of
which related to an investigation of a sexual assault that
allegedly occurred in  Florida  in 2001. Prosecutors said that
matter and several others should be off-limits during the trial.  Prosecutors said in June that McNamee was questioned by
police in October 2001 about an incident at a hotel in  St.
Petersburg , Florida. McNamee, who at the time was employed by
the Yankees, “falsely denied” knowing another Yankees employee
or how the woman who was the alleged victim of the assault
became incoherent, prosecutors said in a court filing. McNamee
was never arrested or charged with an offense.  Clemens, who played for four different teams over a 23-year
career, is charged with one count of obstructing a congressional
investigation, three counts of making false statements and two
counts of perjury in connection with a congressional probe of
ballplayers’ alleged use of performance-enhancing drugs. If
convicted on all counts, Clemens, 49, would face as long as 30
years in prison and a $1.5 million fine.  ‘Confusion and Sympathy’  Walton declared a mistrial in July after finding that
prosecutors improperly showed the jury a video clip of a 2008
congressional hearing in which the wife of government witness
 Andy Pettitte  was discussed. Walton had ruled earlier that no
references to Laura Pettitte, or an affidavit she gave Congress,
could be made during the government’s case.  Prosecutors asked Walton on March 19 to bar Clemens from
telling jurors about the collapse of his first trial, claiming
it could “foster confusion and sympathy.”  They also asked Walton to prevent Clemens’s defense from
repeating certain statements that were made to jurors in the
first trial.  Clemens argues in court papers that prosecutors are trying
to “preemptively attack” his defense with “cherry-picked and
out-of-context portions” of his lawyer’s opening statement from
the first trial, which the government didn’t object to at the
time.  Gag Order  In August 2010, Walton issued a gag order covering Clemens,
his attorneys, prosecutors and potential witnesses, warning them
not to make prejudicial comments about the case in public.  Opening statements in the first trial signaled a defense
focused almost exclusively on McNamee, the government’s only
eyewitness. Clemens, who admits to being injected by McNamee,
said he thought he was receiving vitamins and other permissible
substances.  Hardin’s comments today suggested McNamee’s credibility
will again be key.  “Roger Clemens’s only crime was having the poor judgment
to stay connected to  Brian McNamee ,” Hardin told jurors in last
year’s trial. “Evidence that this guy used steroids and HGH is
so inconsistent with his career in the league that there is no
way he would have done it.”  Congressional Investigation  Hardin, who objected to the seal of the prosecution’s
motion, described it as a list of eight things related to
McNamee that the defense should be barred from bringing before
jurors.  A congressional investigation into the use of performance
enhancing drugs in  Major League Baseball  concluded Clemens used
banned substances toward the end of his 24-year career.
Prosecutors said about 45 witnesses will support their
contention that Clemens knowingly lied about drug use in a
congressional interview and a public hearing in February 2008.
Clemens has denied wrongdoing.  The trial, scheduled to last four to six weeks, will
feature testimony from Clemens’s wife, former congressional
investigators and Major League Baseball players, including
former Yankees teammates Pettitte, Mike Stanton and  Chuck Knoblauch .  Pettitte to Testify  Pettitte, the former All-Star pitcher who signed a minor
league contract after a one-season retirement, will testify
about his own use of human growth hormone and McNamee’s
assistance with injections, the government said in a March 23
filing.  While MacNamee may be the defense target, Pettitte is the
linchpin to the government’s efforts, said Bernie Grimm, a
 Washington  defense lawyer at Cozen O’Connor who isn’t involved
in the case.  “This is not a ‘Whodunit’ case,” Grimm said in an
interview. “Pettitte will be the deciding factor.”  Pettitte’s importance as a witness was a factor in Walton’s
decision to order the mistrial.  “I think Mr. Pettitte’s testimony is going to be critical
as to whether this man goes to prison,” Walton said about 45
minutes before declaring a mistrial on July 14.  Clemens has denied drug use since former U.S. Senator
 George Mitchell  released a report on steroids in Major League
Baseball on Dec. 13, 2007, that named Clemens and 85 other
players. In 2008 testimony to Congress, Clemens repeatedly
maintained his denial of ever using banned substances.  Steroids, HGH  The  Federal Bureau of Investigation  opened an inquiry after
the committee’s leaders told then-U.S. Attorney General Michael Mukasey in writing that Clemens may have lied under oath.  Clemens’s denials were contradicted by McNamee, who said he
injected the athlete with steroids and HGH. Pettitte, meanwhile,
told the committee that Clemens admitted to him in 1999 or 2000
that he used HGH, considered a performance-enhancing drug for
its ability to grow muscle and aid recovery after training.  Clemens testified to Congress that McNamee injected him
with only vitamin B-12 and the painkiller Lidocaine. Pettitte,
who played alongside Clemens with the Yankees and  Houston
Astros , “misremembers” a conversation they had about HGH,
Clemens said.  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in federal court in Washington at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Riley in Washington at 
 mriley17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  