-- Comcast Heads to Trial in Case Alleging Monopolization
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2012-04-13T22:44:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/comcast-heads-to-trial-in-case-alleging-monopolization.html
A 2003 consumers’ $875 million
antitrust lawsuit against cable-service operator  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) 
is headed for trial after a federal judge in Philadelphia upheld
some of the claims.  U.S. District Judge John Padova said allegations that
Comcast targeted discounts for potential new customers may go to
trial, while claims including blocking access to some
contractors won’t, according to a 74-page ruling released
yesterday.  “Because it possessed market power, its decision to target
promotional discounts to deter a new entrant may be deemed
predatory and an exercise of market power to maintain its
monopoly,” Padova wrote of Comcast in his pre-trial opinion.  The judge also found “that Comcast has stated a legitimate
procompetitive justification for its conduct with regard to
cable infrastructure installation contractors.”  The lawsuit was filed by customers who contended the
Philadelphia-based company wrongly “entered into agreements
with its competitors to allocate the nation’s regional cable
markets amongst themselves” and “used its monopoly power to
raise cable prices to artificially high, supra-competitive
levels,” according to Padova’s ruling.  $875 Million Sought  “We are pleased that we are going to go to trial on the
core of our case that we filed back in 2003,” Barry C. Barnett,
a lawyer representing customers, said today in a phone
interview. “I think the jury will understand that Comcast did
what we said it did.” He is seeking $875 million in damages.  “We are gratified at the court’s ruling dismissing several
of plaintiff’s claims and limiting those that remain,” Beth
Bacha, a Comcast spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement.
“We look forward to defending the smaller claims that remain
and to winning a favorable ruling or verdict on those as well.”  Comcast fell 18 cents to $29.50 in Nasdaq stock market
composite trading.  The case is Behrend v. Comcast, 03-cv-6604, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of  Pennsylvania  (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Bathon in Wilmington at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  