-- Consumer Prices in U.S. Probably Rose at Slower Pace
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-04-13T04:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/consumer-prices-in-u-s-probably-rose-at-slower-pace-in-march.html
The cost of living in the U.S.
probably rose at a slower pace in March as the run-up in energy
prices lost steam, economists said before a report today.  The consumer-price index increased 0.3 percent last month
after rising 0.4 percent in February, according to the median
forecast of 80 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. So-called
core prices, which exclude volatile food and energy costs, may
have climbed 0.2 percent.  Companies like Levi Strauss & Co. and Jos. A. Bank
Clothiers Inc. may find it difficult to keep raising prices as
12.7 million Americans remain unemployed, almost twice the
number at the end of the last expansion. Less inflation would
give Federal Reserve policy makers room to keep  interest rates 
near zero to spur the economic recovery and boost employment.  “Inflation is going to moderate as the year moves forward
given the sluggish demand outlook,” said Sam Bullard, a senior
economist at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC  in  Charlotte ,  North
Carolina . “There’s a lot of slack in the labor market that’s
not permitting manufacturers and retailers to pass along costs
to consumers.”  The Labor Department’s data are due at 8:30 a.m. in
Washington. Economists’ estimates ranged from increases of 0.1
percent to 0.5 percent.  The median forecast would mean consumer prices climbed 2.7
percent over the past year, slower than the prior month and the
smallest gain since March 2011. The core index is projected to
increase 2.2 percent from March 2011.  Fed’s View  Fed officials, who’ve said energy costs will probably
subside, have indicated they will hold off on more monetary
stimulus unless prices rise more slowly than their 2 percent
target or the economic expansion falters, according to the
minutes of their March 13 meeting. Their preferred price gauge,
issued by the Commerce Department and tied to  consumer spending ,
rose 2.3 percent in the year ended in February.  “We expect this moderation of overall inflation to resume
later this year,” Federal Reserve Bank of  New York  President
William C. Dudley said April 12.  Fuel prices have already started to stabilize. The  cost  of
a gallon of regular gasoline at the pump eased to $3.91 on April
11 from a 10-month high of $3.94 reached a week earlier, figures
from AAA, the biggest U.S. auto group, show.  Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  endorsed the central bank’s
“highly accommodative” policy this week, stating the Fed
probably won’t meet its goal of full employment for years while
inflation will remain in check.  Yellen on Jobs  “I anticipate that we will fall far short in achieving our
maximum employment objective, and I expect inflation to remain
at or below” the Fed’s goal, Yellen said in a speech in New
York. Economic growth “will be sufficient to lower unemployment
only gradually from this point forward,” Yellen said.  While the economy has added an average of more than 180,000
jobs since October, weaker employment gains last month signal
labor market progress could be slowing. The slack evidenced by
an 8.2 percent unemployment rate might then limit the success
companies like Levi Strauss have had passing the cost of more
expensive raw materials onto consumers.  “We pushed prices fairly aggressively during 2011 and
still haven’t been able to fully cover all the cotton price
increases, but we’re probably to the end of our ability to push
pricing much further,”  Blake Jorgensen , chief financial officer
of the San Francisco-based company, said in an April 10
conference call with analysts.  Markups Difficult  Jos. A. Bank is in a similar situation.  “To date, we have been less successful in raising our out-
the-door prices on some promotional product offerings” this
year than last, R. Neal Black, president and chief executive
officer at the Hampstead, Maryland-based retailer said on a
March 29 conference call.  A Labor Department report yesterday showed while prices
were little changed in March. The cost of imported goods,
reported April 11, rose 0.8 percent.  The CPI is the broadest of the three monthly price measures
from the Labor Department because it includes goods and
services. About 60 percent of the CPI covers prices consumers
pay for services ranging from medical visits to airline fares
and movie tickets.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  