-- Consumer Prices in U.S. Increased at a Slower Pace in March
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-04-13T12:50:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/consumer-prices-in-u-s-increased-at-a-slower-pace-in-march.html
The cost of living in the U.S.
increased at a slower pace in March as the run-up in energy
prices eased, supporting the view of some Federal Reserve policy
makers that inflation will ebb.  The consumer-price index climbed 0.3 percent, matching the
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, after
increasing 0.4 percent the prior month, Labor Department data
showed today in Washington. The so-called  core measure , which
excludes more volatile food and energy costs, rose 0.2 percent.  Companies like Levi Strauss & Co. and Jos. A. Bank
Clothiers Inc. may find it difficult to keep raising prices as
12.7 million Americans remain unemployed, almost twice the
number at the end of the last expansion. Less inflation would
give the Fed room to keep  interest rates  near zero to spur the
economic recovery and boost employment.  “Inflation is going to be slowly decelerating as the
energy price impulse that we’ve seen starts to fade,” said
Michael Carey, the chief economist for  North America  at Credit
Agricole CIB in New York, who correctly forecast the rise in
prices. “The Fed is in wait and see mode. Inflation is not
driving policy. They are more concerned about economic growth
and the labor market.”  Stock-index futures held earlier losses after the figures
as  China  reported slower-than-expected economic growth. The
contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index maturing in June
fell 0.6 percent to 1,377.6 at 8:32 a.m. in  New York .  Survey Results  Estimates from the 80 economists surveyed ranged from
increases of 0.1 percent to 0.5 percent.  Consumer prices increased 2.7 percent in the 12 months
ended in March, the smallest 12-month gain in a year.  The gain in the core gauge followed a 0.1 percent increase
in February and also matched the  median  forecast of economists
surveyed. Core prices were up 2.3 percent for the last 12
months, compared with 2.2 percent for the 12 months ended in
February.  A 1.3 percent jump in the cost of used cars and trucks, the
biggest since December 2009, contributed to the increase in the
core measure, as did increases in clothing and medical care.  Today’s report showed energy costs increased 0.9 percent
from a month earlier after jumping 3.2 percent in February. Food
costs increased 0.2 percent, reflecting broad-based gains.  The costs of rents rose 0.2 percent, matching the total
gain in the core measure.  Fed’s View  Fed officials, who’ve said energy costs will probably
subside, have indicated they will hold off on more monetary
stimulus unless prices rise more slowly than their 2 percent
target or the economic expansion falters, according to the
minutes of their March 13 meeting. Their preferred price gauge,
issued by the Commerce Department and tied to  consumer spending ,
rose 2.3 percent in the year ended in February.  “We expect this moderation of overall inflation to resume
later this year,” Federal Reserve Bank of New York President
William C. Dudley said this week.  Fuel prices have already started to stabilize. The  cost  of
a gallon of regular gasoline at the pump eased to $3.91 on April
11 from a 10-month high of $3.94 reached a week earlier, figures
from AAA, the biggest U.S. auto group, show.  Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  endorsed the central bank’s
“highly accommodative” policy this week, stating the Fed
probably won’t meet its goal of full employment for years while
inflation will remain in check.  Employment Concern  “I anticipate that we will fall far short in achieving our
maximum employment objective, and I expect inflation to remain
at or below” the Fed’s goal, Yellen said in a speech in New
York. Economic growth “will be sufficient to lower unemployment
only gradually from this point forward,” Yellen said.  While the economy has added an average of more than 180,000
jobs since October, weaker employment gains last month signal
labor market progress could be slowing. The slack evidenced by
an 8.2 percent unemployment rate might then limit the success
companies like Levi Strauss have had passing the cost of more
expensive raw materials onto consumers.  “We pushed prices fairly aggressively during 2011 and
still haven’t been able to fully cover all the cotton price
increases, but we’re probably to the end of our ability to push
pricing much further,”  Blake Jorgensen , chief financial officer
of the San Francisco-based company, said in an April 10
conference call with analysts.  Pricing Power  Jos. A. Bank is in a similar situation.  “To date, we have been less successful in raising our out-
the-door prices on some promotional product offerings” this
year than last, R. Neal Black, president and chief executive
officer at the Hampstead, Maryland-based retailer said on a
March 29 conference call.  Paychecks are failing to keep up with inflation, which will
further limit consumers’ ability to buy more expensive products,
another Labor Department report showed today. Hourly earnings
adjusted for prices dropped 0.1% in March, the third straight
decline, and were down 0.6 percent over the past 12 months,
today’s report showed.  A Labor Department report yesterday showed while prices
were little changed in March. The cost of imported goods,
reported April 11, rose 0.8 percent.  The CPI is the broadest of three price gauges because it
includes goods and services. Almost 60 percent of the index
covers prices consumers pay for services ranging from medical
visits to airline fares, movie tickets and rents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  