-- Copper Futures Record Biggest Weekly Drop Since December
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-04-13T20:21:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/copper-futures-record-biggest-weekly-drop-since-december.html
Copper fell, capping the biggest
weekly decline since mid-December, on concern that demand may
falter amid slowing economic growth in  China , the world’s top
consumer.  China’s economy  expanded 8.1 percent in the first quarter
from a year earlier, government data showed today. That was the
lowest in almost three years and trailed the 8.4 percent median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Copper also
declined after a private report showed that U.S. consumer
confidence slipped in April.  “China’s economy was weaker than expected, and the U.S.
consumer sentiment figures only add to the concerns that copper
demand may slow,” Dennis Cajigas, a senior market strategist at
Zaner Group in Chicago, said in a telephone interview.  Copper futures for May delivery dropped 2.5 percent to
settle at $3.627 a pound at 1:27 p.m. on the Comex in  New York .
This week, the metal dropped 4.4 percent, the most since Dec.
16.  Orders (NLFCA)  to withdraw copper from warehouses monitored by the
London Metal Exchange fell for the ninth straight session, the
longest slide since November. Inventories have climbed 3.2
percent this month after plunging 31 percent in the first
quarter.  “The reversal of the decline in LME inventories has added
to the near-term downside pressure,”  Barclays Capital  in London
said in a report yesterday.  On the LME, copper for delivery in three months fell 2.8
percent to $7,990 a metric ton ($3.62 a pound).  Aluminum, zinc, lead, nickel and tin also dropped in
London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in  London  at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  