-- Detroit Financial Crisis Case Set for Appellate Hearing
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-04-13T18:05:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/detroit-financial-crisis-case-set-for-appellate-hearing-1-.html
Michigan ’s Court of Appeals will
hear oral arguments May 3 on a union official’s lawsuit seeking
to bar actions by the Detroit Financial Review Team, which is
evaluating the city’s fiscal crisis.  Robert Davis , an official with a union that represents city
employees, sued Michigan Governor Rick Snyder and the review
team, claiming the team was violating Michigan’s open-meetings
law. A second lawsuit, filed by another union official, was
consolidated with Davis’s action and will be part of the oral
arguments, the appeals court in Lansing said.  Each side will have “a maximum of 30 minutes for oral
argument,” the appeals court said in a one-page order today.  Michigan Governor  Rick Snyder , a Republican, appointed the
10-member financial review team in December after a preliminary
study by the state treasurer found the city was in “probable
financial stress.” Snyder and city officials this month agreed
on a plan to avert a state takeover and fix Detroit’s finances
while retaining some control.  Ingham County Circuit Court Judge William Collette found
March 20 that the review team couldn’t “execute and/or sign a
consent agreement or its equivalent” with the city “until
further order of this court.” He had earlier barred the team
from holding closed-door sessions.  The appeals court on March 23 reversed this and ordered
Collette to “to take no further action” in the lawsuit. The
appeals court on April 4 reversed an order by a separate Ingham
County judge stopping the review team from meeting.  The case is Davis v. City of  Detroit  Financial Review Team,
309219, 309250, Court of Appeals,  State of Michigan  (Lansing).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  