-- Deutsche Bank Says C02 Set-Aside Won’t Spur Clean Investment
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 2012-04-13T10:51:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/deutsche-bank-says-c02-set-aside-won-t-spur-clean-investment-1-.html
A temporary removal of allowances
from the European Union’s emissions trading system may not be
enough to spur investments to cut carbon dioxide and instead
structural changes are needed, according to Deutsche Bank AG.  EU allowances may rise to as much as 20 euros ($26) a
metric ton by 2020, should either 1.2 billion permits be removed
from the market from 2013 to 2020 or 600 million from 2013 to
2016,  Mark Lewis , an analyst in Paris at the bank, said in an e-
mailed report today.  The EU is considering tools to tackle the oversupply of
emission allowances in the world’s largest carbon market, which
drove prices to a record low earlier this month. A plan to set
aside allowances would need changes in law, rather than altering
regulations, a senior Polish government official said yesterday.
That highlights the political difficulty the EU is facing to
recalibrate the market after a recession and debt crisis cut
industrial output, reducing demand for permits.  “A set-aside is necessary but not sufficient,” Lewis
said. “While a set-aside would undoubtedly be the most
pragmatic way of re-establishing meaningful price tension in the
near term, we do not think it would be enough, on its own, to
re-establish the longterm credibility of the scheme.”  EU plans to reduce energy use, including measures such as
household insulation, may further increase the oversupply in the
market as less energy is used and so fewer permits are required.
Deutsche Bank increased its forecast oversupply as a result of
 Europe ’s Energy Efficiency Directive by 19 percent to 1.264
billion allowances through 2020.  Structural changes to the trading system are needed to
restore “price tension” and direct investment into cleaner
energy production, rather than allow funds to be directed toward
natural-gas generation that may impede long-term carbon
reduction targets, Deutsche Bank said. The bank said a tighter
2020 emissions target and setting a reserve price for permits
sold by auction may also help in recalibrating the market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  