-- Edano May Visit Fukui With Message Japan Reactors Safe
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 2012-04-15T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/edano-may-visit-fukui-with-message-west-japan-reactors-are-safe.html
Japan’s point man on nuclear energy
visited regional officials this weekend to say reactors are safe
to operate, less than three weeks before the nation’s sole
nuclear plant still running closes for maintenance.  Industry Minister  Yukio Edano  doesn’t need local approval
to restart two reactors at  Kansai Electric Power Co. (9503) ’s Ohi plant,
about 95 kilometers (59 miles) northeast of  Osaka . With Prime
Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  and two other Cabinet officials he can
approve operation of the plant.  Japan typically seeks local consent to restart reactors
after maintenance or accidents. Given the wide areas affected by
the Fukushima disaster, the government will seek approval for
Ohi in  Fukui (FUKUIZ)  and neighboring  Shiga (SHIPREZ)  and  Kyoto prefecture s, Edano
said on April 2.  Polls suggest Edano, who steered Japan through the early
days of last year’s Fukushima disaster, has already won his
argument in  Fukui prefecture , where the Ohi complex provides
jobs and livelihoods as well as power for the nation’s second-
biggest metropolitan area.  The plant would be the first restarted since  Japan  adopted
new safety tests, and winning over local authorities may help
the government resume operation of more of Japan’s 54 reactors
before power demand peaks in summer months.  Edano met Fukui Governor Issei Nishikawa, prefectural
officials and the mayor of Ohi town on April 14 to explain the
government’s view on the issue and seek cooperation in
restarting the reactors. Nishikawa said he would wait to respond
to the minister’s request, the Mainichi newspaper said.  Less Welcoming  Response in Shiga may be less welcoming. Fukui and Ohi
“would approve the restart because they have carrots,”
Governor Yukiko Kada said in an April 11 interview, referring to
government subsidies and the plant’s payroll. “We don’t have
the carrots and get only the whips.”  Kansai Electric serves the Kansai area of western Japan
that covers an area the size of Belgium, has an economy worth $1
trillion -- about the size of Mexico’s -- and is home to the
cities of Osaka and Kyoto as well as factories of Sharp Corp.
and  Panasonic Corp. (6752)   The utility’s electricity output without nuclear power may
be 18.4 percent short of peak demand this summer if Japan is hit
by a heat wave similar to the one in 2010, the government said
in a statement distributed to reporters yesterday, revising its
April 9 forecast of 19.6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  