-- Megaupload Files Ruling Deferred by Judge for Further Tal
-- B y   M i c h a e l   R i l e y
-- 2012-04-13T18:35:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/megaupload-files-ruling-deferred-by-judge-for-further-tal.html
A U.S. judge deferred a decision on
whether millions of gigabytes of data belonging to users of
Megaupload.com should be preserved or the data-storage company
that owns the servers where it’s housed can delete it.  U.S. District Judge Liam O’Grady, at a hearing today in
Alexandria,  Virginia , told federal prosecutors they have two
weeks to work out an agreement with parties claiming an interest
in the massive cache of data that became inaccessible when law
enforcement agents shut down Megaupload in January.  The parties include attorneys for the  Motion Picture
Association  of America, who say the files contain the largest
collection of copyright-infringed material in the world, as well
as attorneys for Megaupload, who argue they need the data to
defend the company’s directors against charges including
criminal copyright infringement.  The parties also include an Ohio resident who says he used
Megaupload for legitimate purposes and now has no access to data
he stored on the website, which provided its services free to
most users.  Prosecutors this month said in court papers they already
had a large sampling of the data cache and will provide it to
defense attorneys. They contend the data need not be preserved
for purposes related to the criminal prosecution.  ‘Meet-and-Confer’  “I think the meet-and-confer is a great idea,” O’Grady
said, after the lawyers told him their clients were unwilling to
pay the cost of preserving the data. Prosecutors said the cost
of maintaining the files could run into the tens of millions of
dollars.  Today’s hearing, the first in the criminal case against
Megaupload and its founder, Kim Dotcom, provided a preview of
the issues underpinning the potential loss of such a large
amount of data, some of which belonged to innocent cloud-
computing users.  Julie Samuels, an attorney for the Electronic Frontier
Foundation, an Internet civil liberties group, argued that the
government should establish a system through which those users
could file affidavits and claim their data.  Such a system would be difficult. The more than 1,000
servers on which the data had been stored have been unplugged
and shipped to a warehouse in Virginia, according to Marc Zwillinger, an attorney for  Carpathia Hosting Inc. , the Dulles,
Virginia-based hosting company that Megaupload paid to store its
users’ data.  Platform for Client  Carpathia was paid $35 million over several years by
Megaupload, prosecutors said. Zwillinger said Carpathia simply
provided a platform to its client, and should no longer be
required to pay for the data’s upkeep.  Carpathia agreed to sell the servers to Megaupload for
$1.2 million, a cost the company was willing to incur as part of
the defense of Dotcom and other company directors, Zwillinger
said.  Jay Prabhu, the chief of the cybercrime unit in the U.S.
attorney’s office in Alexandria, told O’Grady that the MPAA
objects to returning the copyright-infringed material to a
company that helped illegally disseminate it.  “It’s trusting the thief with the money,” Prabhu said.  Investigators in January executed more than 20 search
warrants in the U.S. and eight other countries and seized about
$50 million in assets associated with Megaupload.com.  Copyrighted Works  Megaupload reproduced copyrighted works directly from other
websites including Google Inc.’s YouTube for illegal sharing and
to give the false impression that a related video-sharing
website hosted user-generated, rather than copyrighted, content,
prosecutors allege.  Since September 2005, the conspiracy -- dubbed “Mega
Conspiracy” by Justice Department prosecutors --generated more
than $175 million in criminal proceeds by distributing millions
of copies of copyrighted works, including movies, television
programs, music, books, video games and software, according to
the indictment.  Of that, more than $150 million came from premium
subscriptions and $25 million from online advertising. A
lifetime subscription cost about $260, according to the
indictment.  The case is U.S. v. Dotcom, 1:12-00003, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Riley in Washington at 
 michaelriley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  