-- Temasek’s Lee, Primus Singapore Said to Settle Dispute
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n   a n d   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2012-04-13T05:37:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/temasek-s-lee-primus-singapore-said-to-settle-dispute.html
The  Singapore  unit of  Primus
Pacific Partners Ltd. (PPPTLZ)  and Lee Theng Kiat, president of  Temasek
Holdings Pte (TMSK) , agreed to settle a lawsuit over a rental dispute,
according to three people familiar with the case.  Lee’s petition to wind up the unit of the Hong Kong-based
private-equity firm will also be suspended pending the
settlement, two of the people said. They declined to be
identified as they aren’t authorized to speak publicly about it.  Lee declined to comment on the proposed settlement, as did
Jennifer Chen, a Hong Kong-based Primus Pacific spokeswoman.  Primus Ventures (Singapore) Pte was sued for breaching a
two-year tenancy on a seven-bedroom Singapore bungalow and not
paying S$67,802 ($54,300) of rent. Primus Pacific, based in  Hong
Kong , was founded by Huan Guocang, HSBC Holdings Plc’s former
China investment banking head, and Ng Wing-Fai, who was managing
director at Taiwan’s Fubon Financial Holding Co.  Primus Ventures had proposed the settlement with Lee, the
people said, declining to give details.  The private-equity firm is liquidating its first fund and
returning capital to investors, according to a person with
knowledge of the matter. That fund had created Primus Ventures
after taking investments in  EON Capital Bhd (EON) . and New China Life
Insurance Co., which have now been sold, the person said.  Primus Pacific’s Ng and Huan set up Primus Financial
Holdings Ltd. in 2009 with  Robert Morse , a former Citigroup Inc.
Asia investment banking chief.  The cases are Lee Theng Kiat v Primus Ventures (Singapore)
Pte CWU 41/2012 and S14/2012 in the Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net ;
Cathy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  