-- Emerging Stocks Rise a Third Day on China Easing Outlook
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-04-13T21:15:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/emerging-stocks-rise-a-third-day-on-china-easing-outlook.html
Emerging-market stocks climbed,
trimming a weekly decline, on speculation  China  may take steps
to boost economic expansion after growth slowed to the weakest
in almost three years.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  rose 0.2 percent to
1,026.50 at the close in New York, paring the gauge’s loss on
the week to 1 percent.  Sany Heavy Equipment International
Holdings Co. (631)  jumped the most in five months, leading industrial
companies higher. South Korean stocks surged the most in a month
after  North Korea ’s rocket launch failed minutes after liftoff.
 Mexico ’s  IPC stock index  sank more than 700 points in less than
five minutes near the end of trading, extending its loss today
to 2.3 percent.  China’s gross domestic product increased 8.1 percent in the
first quarter, the smallest gain since mid-2009 and less than
the 8.4 percent growth predicted in a Bloomberg survey. News
website Sina.com reported that China cut the amount of reserves
some lenders need to keep on hand. Confidence among U.S.
consumers fell in April from a one-year high in March, according
to the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary index
of consumer sentiment.  Chinese authorities “are always going to be extremely
responsive and take the initiative to do whatever it takes to
support the economy,”  Benoit Anne , chief emerging-market
strategist at Societe Generale SA, said by phone from  London .
“We are seeing a very soft landing and signs that authorities
including the central bank will be on the watch on the policy
side.”  Infosys Ltd. (INFO) ,  India ’s second-largest software-services
exporter, slumped 13 percent in Mumbai, the most in almost three
years, after forecasting sales that missed analyst estimates.  A “systems error” caused the plunge in Mexico’s benchmark
IPC gauge, said Alejandro Creixell, a managing partner at
Bulltick Capital Markets in Mexico City.  China Easing  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has climbed 12 percent this
year, beating a 7.3 percent advance in the MSCI World Index of
developed nations. The gauge of developing nations is  valued  at
10.4 times estimated profit, compared with the MSCI World’s
multiple of 12.3 times.  The IShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund , the most-traded ETF to track developing-nation shares,
slid 1.5 percent to $42.16 in New York. The Chicago Board
Options Exchange  Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a gauge
of options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
rose 5.4 percent to 28.69.  China has cut reserve-requirement ratios for county-level
banks by 100 basis points, or 1 percentage point, the state-
backed Xinhua News Agency reported, citing unidentified people
familiar with the matter. The amount major banks must set aside
as reserves has been reduced twice by the same total amount
since November, while ratios for Agricultural Bank of China
Ltd.’s branches were reduced last month.  ICBC, Sany Heavy  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , the world’s
biggest lender by market value, rose 3.2 percent in  Hong Kong ,
the most in two months, after China bank lending surged the most
in a year.  Sany Heavy, a Chinese maker of construction equipment,
climbed 8.4 percent in Hong Kong after the National Bureau of
Statistics said industrial production grew 11.9 percent in
March, compared with 11.4 percent the previous two months.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland stocks in
Hong Kong gained 2.6 percent, the biggest jump since Feb. 2.  Brazil ’s Bovespa slid 1.5 percent, widening the measure’s
weekly loss to 2.5 percent. The gauge has fallen for four weeks,
matching a losing streak that ended in November.  ‘Blackmail’  Hungary’s  BUX Index (BUX)  dropped 2.8 percent on concern disputes
obstructing its international bailout bid will escalate. The
country would consider it an act of “blackmail” if the
 International Monetary Fund  were to pose political criteria for
starting financial assistance talks and is ready to go to court
to defend its position, Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said in an
interview on public radio MR1-Kossuth.  The extra  yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 360, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net 
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  