-- Memo to Gun Lobby: You Won. So Tone It Down, OK?
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-04-13T16:35:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/memo-to-gun-lobby-you-won-so-tone-down-the-rhetoric-ok.html
The 2008 election of  Barack Obama 
was a boon to gunmakers. Now the gun lobby, gathered at the
 National Rifle Association ’s convention in  St. Louis  today, is
using the prospect of his re-election to again stoke fear --
which may be good for the industry’s bottom line but not for the
country.  Relevant figures for gun sales are  hard to come by , but
 excise tax receipts  on firearms rose 45 percent in 2009. There
were manufacturing backlogs and soaring profits. Reasons for
this so-called Obama bubble are speculative, but it’s fair to
say that it was driven at least in part by unease among some gun
owners and enthusiasts about the prospect of more gun-control
legislation. The bubble burst in 2010.  Last month, gunmaker  Sturm Ruger & Co. (RGR)  said that demand had
once again spiked. In fact, the rise was so sharp that, despite
increased production, the company suspended new orders until
May. With Election Day in gunmakers’ sights, the Obama bubble
may be back.  The triumph of a lobby devoted to expanding gun rights and
increasing gun sales has created challenges for communities and
states that do not share the National Rifle Association’s belief
that an unfettered right to carry and use guns -- concealed or
in the open, at church or at school, individually or in bulk,
seated or standing one’s ground --  is the  “essence of what being
American is all about,” according to NRA Chief Executive Officer
Wayne LaPierre. The second-degree murder charges against George
Zimmerman, a neighborhood watch volunteer, in the shooting death
of Trayvon Martin have highlighted the dangers of the more than
two dozen Stand Your Ground statutes that have been enacted
around the U.S. in recent years.  The NRA has mastered the lobbying arena, freed
manufacturers from legal liability for their products and won a
 maximalist interpretation  of the Second Amendment from the U.S.
Supreme Court. It has lately entered Republican primary
politics, campaigning against Senator  Richard Lugar  of  Indiana .
It is also advancing a theory, as laid out by LaPierre, that
there is “a massive Obama conspiracy to deceive voters and hide
his true intentions to destroy the Second Amendment -- during
his second term.”  That’s right: The president who can’t dislodge a
 transportation bill  from an intransigent Congress is preparing
to amend the Bill of Rights.  The NRA’s success in changing the laws of the land was
reflected in  Mitt Romney’s speech  to the group’s convention in
St. Louis on Friday afternoon. “We need a president who will
enforce current laws,” he said, “not create new ones that only
serve to burden lawful gun owners. Mr. Obama has not; I will.”  The purpose of gun-control laws, such as they were, wasn’t
to serve the interests of any particular industry. It was to
make useful distinctions for society as a whole. There were
places where guns were deemed appropriate (hunting grounds) or
acceptable (the home). There were also places where they were
deemed too hazardous for society to tolerate (schools, bars).
There were lines drawn between hunters, sportsmen and the like
on one hand, and the mentally unstable and criminal on the
other. The signal achievement of the NRA in recent years has
been to erase those distinctions.  Another Obama bubble may be a financial boon to the gun
industry. If so, it is one that relies too much on the politics
of fear for its success. Even in this partisan hour, the public
sphere still requires some respect for pluralism.  Rallying ideological opposition to the president and his
party is the quintessence of democratic action. The NRA’s
cocktail of fear, however, stirred by the barrel of a gun, is
too strong a drink.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .
Read more online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The View editors on signs  Iraq  is  veering
away  from democracy; William D. Cohan on  restoring faith  in  Wall
Street  as the key to an economic recovery;  Simon Johnson  on why
long-term  budget projections  get too much attention; Kellie
McElhaney on how Apple  should change  its behavior;  Albert R.
Hunt  on Mitt Romney’s potential  vice presidential choices ; Vali
Nasr on  positive developments  in  Pakistan ; and Iain Begg on
redefining  Europe ’s  social safety net .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 