-- EU’s Emission’s Trading System Would Beat WTO Challenge
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2012-04-13T11:58:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/eu-s-emission-s-trading-system-would-beat-wto-challenge.html
The European Union’s plan to impose
carbon-emissions curbs on international airlines would probably
stand up to any challenge at the  World Trade Organization ,
according to a study by a University of Cambridge researcher.  Countries including the U.S.,  China , Russia and India have
criticized the EU’s emissions trading system, which requires all
aircraft landing in and departing from  Europe  to surrender
enough carbon dioxide allowances to cover their emissions.
Allowances up to a fixed overall cap are given to participants
for free or must be bought at auctions or on the carbon market.  Extending the cap-and-trade plan, known as ETS, to the
airline industry as of January builds on the carbon trading
system the EU began in 2005 to cover greenhouse-gas emissions
from  power plants  and manufacturers in 30 countries -- the 27 EU
nations plus Iceland, Liechtenstein and  Norway . Airline carbon-
dioxide discharges in Europe doubled over two decades and
aviation now accounts for about 3 percent of global emissions.  “It’s a bit messy, but I think at the end of the day it’s
justifiable,” Lorand Bartels, a senior lecturer in WTO and
international law at the university’s  Trinity Hall , said in a
phone interview. “On most points it’s OK in that it’s justified
on environmental grounds.”  Officials from 29 countries, including the U.S., signed a
declaration protesting the EU law in February and said they
would consider retaliatory actions, including barring their air
carriers from participating in the ETS, challenging the system
at the WTO and imposing additional charges on EU carriers.  ‘Notoriously Difficult’  While extending the ETS to aviation probably violates
global trade rules, the WTO permits measures that are necessary
“to protect human, animal or plant life or health.” A
successful WTO complaint would have to show that the EU could
have achieved the same goal using another means that is “both
reasonably available and less trade-restrictive than the measure
adopted. This is notoriously difficult to assess in the
abstract,” Bartels wrote in a study that he’ll present today at
a conference in Geneva.  One contradiction in the ETS, he said, is that it offers an
incentive for planes to make stopovers because CO2 emissions are
calculated based on the last place an aircraft lands before
entering the EU. Airlines must pay for  carbon emissions 
depending on the distance flown, meaning a flight from  Los
Angeles  to  London  via  New York  would result in lower emission
costs than a direct flight from Los Angeles to London, though it
would mean higher CO2 discharges.  “It’s a perverse incentive to have a system where you
actually get charged for the non-stopover flight even when the
stopover flight uses more emissions overall,” said Bartels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 