-- Leucadia Says Chairman Ian Cumming to Step Down in 2015
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2012-04-13T21:16:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/leucadia-says-chairman-ian-cumming-to-step-down-in-2015-1-.html
Leucadia National Corp. (LUK) , the
largest shareholder of  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF) , said Chairman Ian Cumming doesn’t plan to request a renewal of his employment
contract, which ends in June 2015.  Cumming, 71, will stand for re-election to the board of
directors at the annual meeting next month, the New York-based
holding company said today in a regulatory filing.  The chairman since 1978, Cumming has worked with Leucadia
President Joseph Steinberg to build the company, which has made
investments in mortgages, mining and vineyards. Leucadia has
entered a venture with billionaire  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  to invest in commercial real estate.  “Over the next few years there will undoubtedly be more
developments on the succession front,” Cumming and Steinberg
said in a  letter  to investors posted today on the company’s
website. “We will keep you informed.”  Leucadia’s stock has advanced at a compound annual growth
rate of about 26 percent from 1978 through the end of 2011, the
firm said in the letter.  Cumming and Steinberg, who have been praised by Buffett in
at least two of his annual letters to Berkshire shareholders,
wrote that they like their holdings in Jefferies,  Inmet Mining
Corp. (IMN)  and  Mueller Industries Inc. (MLI) , adding that the companies
“will do well if the economy continues on its recovery.”  ‘Finest Hour’  Jefferies Chief Executive Officer Richard Handler and  Brian Friedman , chairman of the New York-based investment bank’s
executive committee, acted with “honesty and transparency” as
the company was “falsely accused” of having a balance sheet
similar to that of MF Global Holdings Ltd., the firm that
collapsed on Oct. 31., Cumming and Steinberg wrote.  Amid a 14 percent stock slide in November, Handler revealed
Jefferies’s holdings in Greece, Italy, Ireland, Portugal and
Spain after a $6.3 billion bet on the bonds of Europe’s most
indebted nations helped lead to MF Global’s bankruptcy. In the
letter, Cumming and Steinberg called Jefferies’s response
“their finest hour.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  