-- European Stocks Drop on Debt Fears, Slower China Growth
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-04-13T16:21:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/european-stock-futures-are-little-changed-bayer-may-move.html
European stocks fell, for the
longest streak of weekly losses since August, as concern
resurfaced about the euro-area’s debt crisis and China’s
economic growth slowed last quarter more than forecast.  UniCredit SpA and  Banca Popolare di Milano Scarl (PMI)  led
European banks lower. Banco Santander SA, the biggest Spanish
lender, fell 3.2 percent.  Cap Gemini (CAP)  SA dropped 5.1 percent.
L’Oreal SA, the world’s largest cosmetics maker, rose 1.2
percent after first-quarter sales topped analysts’ estimates.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index  retreated 1.5 percent to 253.40
at the close of trading. The gauge has fallen for four straight
weeks amid mounting concern that the region’s debt crisis is
worsening and as a U.S. report showed employers added fewer jobs
in March than forecast.  “The strong growth observed normally after the Chinese New
Year appears not to have happened this year,” said Kai Fachinger, who manages about $750 million at SAM Sustainable
Asset Management AG in Zurich. “We consider the economic
situation in  China  as fragile, but expect political action in
order to stimulate growth.”  The Stoxx 600 jumped 1.2 percent yesterday, its biggest
advance in more than a week, after the  Federal Reserve  signaled
 interest rates  will remain low to support economic growth.  Credit-Default Swaps  The cost of insuring against a Spanish default jumped to a
record as Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  struggles to prevent the
nation from becoming the fourth euro-region member to need a
bailout.  Credit-default swaps on  Spain  rose 17 basis points to 498
as of 4 p.m. in  London , surpassing the previous all-time high
closing price of 493, according to CMA. The contracts are up
from 431 at the start of the month and 380 at the end of 2011,
signalling a deterioration in investor perceptions of credit
quality.  Spanish banks’  borrowings   from the  European (SXXP)  Central Bank
jumped by almost 50 percent in March, reaching the most on
record, the Bank of Spain said on its website today.  National benchmark indexes fell in every western-European
market. France’s CAC 40 slid 2.5 percent, while the U.K.’s FTSE
100 decreased 1 percent and Germany’s DAX slipped 2.4 percent.
Spain’s IBEX 35 dropped 3.6 percent to its lowest level since
March 2009, while Italy’s FTSE MIB sank 3.4 percent.  Greece  was
closed for a holiday.  ECB Purchasing  European Central Bank  council member Klaas Knot said that
policy makers are “very far” from reviving their program of
purchasing  government bonds . “The instrument hasn’t been used
for some time” and “I hope we never have to use it again,” he
said in Amsterdam today. He also said that another three-year
loan probably “won’t be needed.”  Seventeen of 22 economists polled this week predicted the
ECB will resume the  Securities Markets Program (ECBCSMP) , while only one
forecast it will offer another batch of three-year cash. Nine
said the central bank may consider shorter maturity loans of one
or two years.  Growth in  China’s economy , the world’s second biggest,
slowed more than forecast last quarter to the least in almost
three years.  Gross domestic product  rose 8.1 percent from a year earlier
following an 8.9 percent increase in the fourth quarter, the
National Bureau of Statistics in Beijing said today. That was
less than the 8.4 percent growth predicted in a  Bloomberg News
survey (CNGDPYOY) . Analysts at Bank of America Corp., Nomura Holdings Inc.
and IHS Global Insight said the first quarter may mark a trough.  “The market’s expectations for Chinese growth were not
met, so they are slightly disappointed,” said Konstantin Giantiroglou, head of investment advisory at Neue Aargauer Bank
AG in Brugg,  Switzerland . “One should not forget that many
investors see that it will allow the government to continue to
ease financial conditions. The markets have enjoyed a good
rebound in the last two sessions and are somewhat more
vulnerable for a correction.”  IMF Scale-Down  International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said she will scale down her request for $600 billion of
additional resources as threats to the global economy diminish.
The IMF is reassessing risks, “which will bring me to probably
reassess a lower number of additional resources needed,” she
said yesterday after European markets closed.  U.S. Confidence  Confidence among U.S. consumers cooled in April from a one
year high as Americans’ assessment of their financial situation
eased.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan’s preliminary
index of consumer sentiment dropped to 75.7 from 76.2 last
month. The measure was projected to hold at 76.2, according to a
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  Italian banks led a gauge of European lenders lower, with
 UniCredit (UCG) , the nation’s biggest bank, dropping 6 percent to 3.03
euros, and  Popolare di Milano  retreating 8.2 percent to 34.6
euro cents.  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  sank 4.8 percent to 1.16 euros.
 BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  slid 5.2 percent to 30.40 euros, while  Banco
Santander (SAN)  declined 3.2 percent to 4.86 euros.  Cap Gemini, France’s biggest computer-services company,
slipped 5.1 percent to 29.92 euros after peer Infosys Ltd.
plunged the most in almost three years in Mumbai trading after
forecasting sales lower than analysts had estimated.  STMicroelectronics NV (STM) , Europe’s largest semiconductor
maker, dropped 5.1 percent to 5.21 euros.  Sage Group Plc (SGE) , the U.K.’s largest software maker, slipped
2.6 percent to 287.7 pence. Milan Radia, an analyst at Jefferies
Group Inc., cut the stock to hold from buy.  Stada Arzneimittel (SAZ)  lost 4.9 percent to 23.48 euros after
JPMorgan cut the stock to neutral, the equivalent of hold, from
overweight.  L’Oreal Gains  L’Oreal (OR)  climbed 1.2 percent to 92.14 euros after it
reported first-quarter sales that exceeded analysts’ estimates
and said trends are favorable for all its brands.  Revenue climbed 9.4 percent to 5.64 billion euros ($7.4
billion), more than the average 5.53 billion-euro analyst
estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Aixtron SE (AIXA) , which manufactures equipment for the
semiconductor industry, rose 2.6 percent to 13.72 euros after
Berenberg Bank AG said in a report that the lighting sector is
attractive because of rising average selling prices and
structural demand for energy-efficient products.  Stallergenes SA (GENP) , the French pharmaceutical company that
makes allergy treatments, increased 3.3 percent to 42.66 euros
as first-quarter sales rose to 75.7 million euros from 70.9
million euros a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  