-- European Stocks Fall for Fourth Week; SocGen Shares Slide
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-04-13T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/european-stocks-fall-for-fourth-week-socgen-shares-slide.html
European stocks  dropped for a
fourth week, the longest streak of losses since August, as
concern resurfaced about the region’s debt crisis and economic
reports in  China  and the U.S. missed estimates.  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  and UniCredit SpA sank more than 8
percent as banks led losses on the Stoxx Europe 600 Index this
past week. Banco Espirito Santo SA tumbled 13 percent as it
announced a share sale.  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  slumped 21 percent after
reporting an operating loss for its mobile-phone division and
forecasting that earnings won’t recover this quarter.  The Stoxx 600 lost 2.2 percent to 253.4 as  China’s economy 
slowed more than forecast and a U.S. report showed employers
added fewer jobs in March than estimated. The gauge has still
climbed 3.6 percent this year as the  European Central Bank 
disbursed more than 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) to the
region’s lenders through its longer-term refinancing operation,
or LTRO.  “Despite the intervention of the European authorities in
the form of the LTRO, concerns have now spread to  Spain ,” said
 Richard Hunter , the head of equities at Hargreaves Lansdown Plc
in London. “In the U.S., last week’s jobs numbers provided a
hangover which has been difficult to shake off.”  Borrowing costs topped 6 percent this week in Spain,
nearing the 7 percent level that prompted  Greece , Ireland and
Portugal to seek bailouts. The cost of insuring against a
Spanish government default rose to a record today, according to
CMA prices for credit-default swaps.  ‘Not Possible’  “Spain is not going to be rescued,” Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  said on April 12. “It’s not possible to rescue
Spain, there’s no intention to.”  ECB Governing Council member Klaas Knot said that officials
are far from reviving their program of purchasing  government
bonds .  “I think that we are very far from that situation, the
instrument hasn’t been used for some time, but it’s still there,
I hope we never have to use it again,” Knot said at an event in
Amsterdam yesterday, when asked about the need for the ECB to
buy government bonds. He also said that another three-year loan
probably won’t be needed.  National benchmark indexes fell in all 18 western European
markets, except Iceland and Greece. The U.K.’s  FTSE 100 (UKX)  slid 1.3
percent, Germany’s DAX dropped 2.8 percent and France’s CAC 40
declined 3.9 percent, the most this year. Italy’s FTSE MIB and
Spain’s IBEX 35 posted the biggest declines, losing 5.6 percent
and 5.4 percent, respectively. The IBEX 35 closed at the lowest
level since March 2009.  ‘Flames of Crisis’  Two weeks after Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said the
“flames of crisis” are unlikely to return, Spanish borrowing
costs have surged to the highest since the ECB started its LTRO
in December.  As equity markets reopened after Easter, stocks dropped
around the world following a report showing American employers
added 120,000 jobs in March, the fewest in five months and less
than the median economist forecast of 205,000 in a Bloomberg
survey. The amount had exceeded 200,000 for three straight
months. U.S. and European equity markets were shut for the Good
Friday holiday on April 6, when the Labor Department released
its employment report.  Growth in China’s economy, the world’s second biggest,
slowed more than forecast last quarter to the least in almost
three years. Gross domestic product rose 8.1 percent from a year
earlier following an 8.9 percent increase in the fourth quarter,
the National Bureau of Statistics in Beijing said yesterday.
That was less than the 8.4 percent growth predicted in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Banks Slide  Banks posted the largest declines among 19 industry groups
on the Stoxx 600.  Societe Generale , France’s second-biggest
lender, slid 12 percent and UniCredit, the largest bank in
Italy, sank 8.3 percent.  Banco Espirito Santo (BES)  tumbled 13 percent as Portugal’s
biggest publicly traded bank said it will sell as much as 1.01
billion euros of new stock.  Nokia retreated 21 percent, the largest drop since June.
The biggest maker of mobile phones by volume said its devices
and services unit probably had a first-quarter operating loss of
about 3 percent of sales. The figure for the current period will
be “similar to or below” the first quarter.  Randgold Resources Ltd. surged 8 percent after Mali’s
military junta agreed to hand over power in the country that
accounts for about two-thirds of the miner’s gold output.  Hays Plc jumped 6.5 percent after the U.K. recruitment
company forecast full-year  operating profit  toward the top end
of analysts’ estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in  London  at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  