-- Ex-EBRD Banker Charged in London With Taking U.S. Bribes
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-04-13T14:31:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/ex-ebrd-banker-charged-in-london-with-taking-u-s-bribes.html
Former European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development banker Andrey Ryjenko was charged
with accepting bribes and laundering more than $3 million.  Ryjenko was accused, along with former  Standard Bank  Plc
employee Tatjana Sanderson, of taking bribes to show favor to a
company called Chestnut Consulting Inc. between September 2007
and March 2010, according to the indictment. The two were also
charged with transferring the funds from Chestnut Consulting’s
managing director Dmitrij Harder to Sanderson’s bank accounts.  The case is scheduled for trial in November, a judge at
London’s Central  Criminal Court , known as the Old Bailey, ruled
today. The pair haven’t entered pleas in the case. Sanderson,
whose last name was formerly Ryjenko, previously worked at
Standard Bank, according to the U.K. Financial Services
Authority’s register of approved people.  Chestnut Consulting is based in Southampton,  Pennsylvania ,
and arranges financing for the energy, metals and mining,
infrastructure, and industrial production firms, according to
its  website . Harder didn’t immediately respond to a call to his
office or an e-mail.  Georgia Adumata, a spokeswoman for Ryjenko’s lawyer at
Bindmans in  London , and Jeremy Summers, a lawyer for Sanderson,
didn’t immediately respond to calls seeking comment. A call to
Standard Bank’s press office in London wasn’t immediately
returned.  Police said in March 2010 that a man and a woman were
arrested by its economic crime division in relation to an
international investigation at the bank, which provides funds to
help emerging European and central Asian countries catch up with
more developed economies.  Second Investigation  The EBRD had said the unidentified employee, who was
involved in its investment activities, was questioned by police
on Feb. 26, 2010. The bank conducted an internal review and
referred the matter to the police.  In another investigation involving the bank, the  City of
London  Police arrested five people on suspicion of bribery and
money laundering related to EBRD transactions. A police
spokeswoman said the probes are being treated as separate.  “Further suspects remain outstanding abroad,” the police
spokeswoman said. The department “continue to work closely with
the EBRD in relation to these investigations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  