-- Ex-Synergy Brands Chief Charged in $26 Million Bank Fraud
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2012-04-13T20:27:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/ex-synergy-brands-chief-charged-in-26-million-bank-fraud.html
The former head of  Synergy Brands
Inc. (SYBRQ) , a bankrupt baking mixes and spices company in Syosset, New
York, was charged with a fraud that led to a $26 million loss
for New York-based  Signature Bank (SBNY) .  Mair Faibish, 52, Synergy’s former chief executive officer,
was arrested today and pleaded not guilty in federal court in
Brooklyn, New York. The fraud arose from a check-kiting scheme
meant to inflate Synergy’s sales, according to a statement from
U.S. Attorney Loretta E. Lynch in Brooklyn. Faibish defrauded
both Signature and McLean, Virginia-based  Capital One Financial
Corp. (COF) , according to the indictment.  “The defendant allegedly defrauded an FDIC-insured bank
out of millions of dollars through a massive check-kiting
scheme, as well as fraudulently inflated Synergy’s financial
statements in order to make the struggling company appear
prosperous,” Lynch said in the statement.  Synergy Brands filed a Chapter 7 liquidation petition in
January 2011 in Central Islip,  New York . The petition listed
assets of $21.7 million and debt totaling $44.7 million. The
company was delisted from the  Nasdaq  in December 2008.  ‘Complicated Transactions’  “These were complicated transactions and I think when
comprehended it’ll be clear that they were not fraudulent,”
Faibish’s lawyer,  Bradley Simon  of  Simon & Partners LLP  in
 Manhattan , said after the court hearing. “After it’s fully
understood, we’ll be able to show that it’s not what the
government alleges it is.”  Faibish kited about $750 million worth of checks not backed
by sufficient funds through banks in the U.S. and Canada,
according to the indictment. He had those checks deposited into
accounts of associated food makers and distributors in  Canada ,
which then sent checks in corresponding amounts back to Synergy
in the U.S., prosecutors said.  Because the funds were immediately available, they
artificially inflated Synergy’s bank balances.  Faibish is charged with securities-fraud and bank-fraud
conspiracy, bank fraud and making false statements to the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. Assistant U.S. Attorney
Ilene Jaroslaw said in court that Faibish faces about 20 years
in prison under federal sentencing guidelines.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Viktor V. Pohorelsky released Faibish
on a $1 million bond secured by two houses he and his wife own
in Dix Hills and Monticello, New York. Faibish is a dual citizen
of the U.S. and  Israel , Jaroslaw said.  The case is U.S. v. Faibish, 12-cr-265, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York ( Brooklyn ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court
at   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 