-- Bulltick Says Erroneous Mexico Stock Trades May Be Voided
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a
-- 2012-04-13T22:39:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/mexico-ipc-plunge-was-caused-by-systems-error-bulltick-says.html
Late-day Mexican stock transactions
involving Bulltick  Capital Markets  may be voided by exchange
officials after a “technological error” sparked a plunge in
the benchmark index, said Alejandro Creixell, a managing partner
at the firm.  The IPC sank 2 percent in less than five minutes starting
at about 2:45 p.m. local time today, before ending the day down
2.3 percent from yesterday at 38,444.01. Creixell, who has been
discussing the matter with bourse officials, said it wasn’t
clear whether the trades that drove down the index were caused
by an error in Bulltick’s trading system or the stock
exchange’s. Roberto Gavaldon, a bourse spokesman, didn’t respond
to phone and e-mail messages seeking comment.  Bulltick  executed  more sell orders by volume than any other
Mexican brokerage today. In the past month, it’s been the 19th
most active seller, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It was a technological error very similar to the flash
crash” in the U.S., Creixell, head of Bulltick’s brokerage in
Mexico City, said in a telephone interview.  The Dow Jones Industrial Average briefly lost almost 1,000
points in the so-called flash crash of May 2010, which spawned
increased regulatory scrutiny for high-frequency traders, who
use technology and complex computer programs to execute trade
orders sometimes within milliseconds.  Arca Continental SAB (AC*) , Mexico’s second-largest Coke bottler,
sank as much as 14 percent in intraday trading today. Grupo
Aeroportuario del Pacifico SAB, the operator of airports in the
Pacific and central regions of Mexico, fell as much as 10
percent.  “All of a sudden the index started falling,” said Roberto Cavazos, who manages about 2 billion pesos ($152 million) in
equities at Value Casa de Bolsa SA in Mexico City. “We started
to look at different stocks and realized it was an error. There
were very unusual trades from Bulltick -- big volumes and prices
out of line with the market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in  Mexico  City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  