-- FAA Fails to Properly Monitor Contracting, U.S. Auditor Says
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2012-04-13T19:31:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/faa-fails-to-properly-monitor-contracting-u-s-auditor-says.html
The U.S.  Federal Aviation
Administration  isn’t properly monitoring costs and potential
ethical violations in contracts related to improvements in the
nation’s air-traffic systems, an  audit  found.  Practices for selecting and overseeing contracts awarded
since 2010 for work related to the so-called NextGen project are
“not sufficient,” the Department of Transportation’s Inspector General said in a report released today.  The seven contracts examined, awarded to companies
including  Boeing Co. (BA) , CSSI Inc.,  ITT Corp. (ITT)  and  General Dynamics
Corp. (GD) , are valued at as much as $7.3 billion, the largest
cumulative award in FAA history, according to the report. The
contracts are for technical and professional support of new
systems to let the FAA track aircraft using satellite navigation
instead of radar.  The agency didn’t verify labor rates charged in five of
seven contracts, according to the report. The FAA overestimated
the labor hours required, the auditors found.  “Weaknesses in its monitoring tools and critical
acquisition data errors further impede FAA’s ability to ensure
it does not overpay for professional and technical services,”
the IG said in the report.  While the FAA was supposed to monitor the contracts for
conflicts of interest, the agency was unaware that one
contractor hired to perform upkeep was also involved in a $1.8
billion NextGen acquisition on the same system, the audit found.  “The FAA has strong management controls in place with
enhanced oversight to ensure that the System Engineering 2020
contract program provides an efficient and cost-effective means
to support NextGen implementation,” the agency said in a
statement.  The agency, in a Jan. 20 letter attached to the audit, said
it had made steady improvements in the contract process that
“were not captured” in the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  