-- Fast Retailing Surges on Record Profit Forecast: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a   a n d   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i
-- 2012-04-13T07:25:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/fast-retailing-surges-on-record-profit-forecast-tokyo-mover.html
Fast Retailing Co. (9983) ,  Asia ’s biggest
clothing retailer, surged the most in more than three years in
Tokyo trading after raising its forecast for annual profit to a
record and saying sales outside  Japan  will drive growth.  Fast Retailing, the biggest gainer on the  Nikkei 225 Stock
Average (NKY)  in the past five years, rose 8.6 percent to 18,970 yen
in Tokyo, the most since Oct. 5, 2009. The  stock  has risen 36
percent this year, compared with a 12 percent gain for the
broader Topix index.  Net income will probably be 81.5 billion yen ($1.01
billion) in the year ending August, the company said yesterday.
It was higher than the January forecast of 70 billion yen and
the 72.5 billion yen average estimate of 22 analysts compiled by
Bloomberg. The record earnings will be led by higher sales of
the company’s Uniqlo brand apparel in Japan and overseas,
President  Tadashi Yanai  said yesterday.  “Greater  China , ASEAN and India are countries with the
best opportunities,” Yanai said at a press conference in Tokyo
yesterday. “The middle-class population can potentially explode
there.” The overseas Uniqlo business will lead the company’s
growth from now on, he said.  The casual clothing maker, controlled by Yanai, Japan’s
richest man, expanded outside of Japan to cut its dependence on
its  home market  where the economy is little changed. Overseas
Uniqlo sales surged 69 percent to 84.8 billion yen for the six
months ended February and domestic sales climbed 6.6 percent to
364.5 billion yen.  “People should watch out for their overseas sales even
though they account for a smaller proportion of their sales for
now,” said Mikihiko Yamato, deputy head of research for JI Asia
in Tokyo “They are expanding very quickly and that would boost
profit.”  Overseas Expansion  Fast Retailing plans to open as many as 300 outlets every
year mainly in Asia and have more than 2,000 outlets in  Greater
China  and other Asian countries in the next 10 years, the 63-
year-old Yanai said. Its overseas sales are expected to exceed
the domestic market in the 2015 fiscal year, said the executive,
the company’s biggest  shareholder  with a 22 percent stake.  Fast Retailing, which has been trying to revive its image
at home, yesterday raised the sales forecast for the fiscal year
by 0.5 percent to 941.5 billion yen. It also lifted its domestic
Uniqlo sales forecast by 0.7 percent to 633.5 billion yen after
sales of core products in Japan, such as heattech and ultra-
light down jackets, improved in the second quarter, the
billionaire executive said.  World’s Largest Store  The Yamaguchi, western Japan-based company opened the
world’s largest Uniqlo brand casual clothing store in  Tokyo ’s
Ginza district last month to change its image to a global
company, using English as an official language and hiring
international staff. Yanai said then he aimed to make the outlet
the biggest revenue generator in the network with annual sales
of 10 billion yen.  Fast Retailing’s second-quarter net income climbed 40
percent to 26.6 billion yen, according to Bloomberg calculations
based on first-half figures reported by the company yesterday.
That topped the average estimate of 17.7 billion yen by three
analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  The retailer raised the full-year dividend by 30 yen to 260
yen for the year ending Aug. 31, from the forecast it made in
January, it said. The company paid 180 yen in the last fiscal
year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Yamaguchi in Tokyo at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  