-- Fed Officials Differ on Need to Keep Rates Low to 2014
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-04-13T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/fed-officials-differ-on-need-to-keep-rates-low-to-2014.html
Federal Reserve officials widened a
rift over a commitment to keep rates near zero through late 2014
as an unexpected increase in claims for jobless benefits added
to evidence of a weakening labor market.  William C. Dudley, president of the New York Fed, and Vice
Chairman  Janet Yellen  said the 2014 time-frame is needed to
lower unemployment from 8.2 percent. Minneapolis Fed President
 Narayana Kocherlakota  said rising inflation may prompt an
interest-rate increase as early as this year, while
Philadelphia’s  Charles Plosser  said policy should hinge on
economic performance, not a calendar commitment.  Central bankers next meet in two weeks to consider policy
for an economy that Dudley and Yellen said may be sapped by cuts
in  government spending  and the European debt crisis. Dudley and
Yellen backed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s view that progress in
reducing joblessness may not be sustained as growth cools.  “There is a debate going on, but right now the power rests
with the chairman and governors” favoring the 2014 rate
outlook, said Joseph Lavorgna, chief U.S. economist at Deutsche
Bank Securities Inc. in  New York . Even so, the comments suggest
“the Fed does not feel it has to take additional easing,” he
said.  Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  and the St. Louis
Fed’s  James Bullard  have expressed skepticism in recent days
over the need for more easing. Lockhart is a voting member of
the  Federal Open Market Committee  this year, while Bullard,
Plosser and Kocherlakota are not. Dudley has a permanent vote
and serves as vice chairman of the FOMC.  Asset Purchases  Some investors, including  Bill Gross , manager of the
world’s biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co.,
are betting that the Fed will embark on a third round of large-
scale asset purchases. In its first two rounds, the Fed bought
$2.3 trillion of bonds from December 2008 to June to avert
deflation and spur growth.  U.S. stocks rose yesterday, giving the  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index (SPX)  its biggest two-day rally in 2012, after Yellen and
Dudley spoke. Both officials hold permanent votes on policy. The
 S&P 500  advanced 1.4 percent to 1,387.57.  Jobless claims increased 13,000 in the week ended April 7
to 380,000, the highest since Jan. 28, data from the Labor
Department showed yesterday. The median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey called for 355,000 claims.  The Fed is likely to miss its goals to achieve maximum
employment over the next several years, though there is
uncertainty about the outlook, Yellen said. “I consider a
highly accommodative policy stance to be appropriate,” she said
April 11 in a speech in New York.  Operation Twist  The end of the so-called Operation Twist program in June
won’t amount to a tightening of monetary policy because the
level of accommodation is dependent on the amount of assets the
Fed holds, she said. The Fed announced in September it would
replace $400 billion of short-term debt with longer-term
securities to reduce borrowing costs.  Still, the Fed is “quite willing and committed to take
whatever actions are necessary” to achieve its goals, she said.  “I haven’t seen any set of information that should suggest
to me we should change that view” Dudley said yesterday in
Syracuse, New York, referring to the 2014 time horizon for low
rates.  Dudley, in a speech to business leaders, said recent
“upbeat” data on the  U.S. economy  suggest that “the recovery
may be getting better established.” Still, “it is still too
soon to conclude that we are out of the woods, as underlined by
the March labor-market release.”  Jobs Report  U.S. employers added 120,000 jobs in March, less than the
most pessimistic estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists. Joblessness fell to 8.2 percent from 8.3 percent as
people stopped looking for work. The rate has fallen from 9.1
percent in August.  Inflation will probably rise above the central bank’s 2
percent target next year, contributing to a need for tightening
in central bank policy, Kocherlakota said.  “My own belief is that we will need to initiate our
somewhat lengthy exit strategy sometime in the next six to nine
months or so, and that conditions will warrant raising rates
sometime in 2013 or, possibly, late 2012,” he said.  The Fed should aim to follow a “systemic” policy rule
whereby changes in the economy prompt predictable responses from
the central bank, Plosser said.  “The committee’s description of how policy will be
conducted is not entirely clear,” he said to the National
Economists Club in  Washington .  Beige Book  The Fed said in its  Beige Book  report on April 11 that the
economy expanded “at a modest to moderate pace” from mid-
February through late March as manufacturing, hiring and retail
sales showed signs of strength in the face of higher fuel
prices.  The economy may be strengthening, while still having a
“long way to go,” Fed Governor  Sarah Bloom Raskin  said
yesterday in a speech in  Los Angeles .  “Some economic news has been encouraging and may be
suggesting that the pace of the recovery is picking up,” Raskin
said. “Even though general economic activity and labor-market
conditions have improved modestly in the past two and a half
years or so, house  prices  have continued to trend down.”  Other policy makers have signaled resistance to further
easing. The Atlanta Fed’s Lockhart said on April 11 that the
March jobs report doesn’t alter his view that the economy is
growing moderately, and he would be “reticent” to support
additional purchases of assets by the central bank.  Not Convinced  “I am still not convinced that another round in this time
frame would achieve a great deal,” Lockhart said to reporters
in Stone Mountain,  Georgia .  The St. Louis Fed’s Bullard said the economy will probably
grow by 3 percent this year and the  unemployment rate  may drop
to 7.8 percent by year-end. Speaking in a Bloomberg Radio
interview, Bullard said he “wouldn’t go too far” with last
week’s “mediocre” jobs report.  San Francisco Fed President  John Williams  said April 4 that
the “probability of needing to do additional stimulus is
lower.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net 
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  