-- Fewer Investors Rule Out QE3, Citigroup Survey Shows
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-04-13T15:28:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/fewer-investors-rule-out-qe3-citigroup-survey-shows.html
Investors optimistic enough to
predict that the  Federal Reserve  won’t buy more debt to support
the economy decreased this month amid slower job growth,
according to a Citigroup Inc. survey.  Almost 45 percent of respondents said they didn’t expect
the Fed to carry out more quantitative easing, known as QE3,
according to the April survey by the bank’s Citigroup Global
Markets unit. That was down from about 60 percent of respondents
who expected no QE3 in a March survey. The recent results were
published yesterday in a research note.  The central bank has purchased $2.3 trillion of bonds in
two rounds quantitative easing since 2008. The Fed’s replacement
of $400 billion in shorter maturities with longer-term debt under
what is known as Operation Twist will end in June.  “The data has been a bit softer, especially the recent
payrolls number,” said Neela Gollapudi, a New York-based
strategist at Citigroup, in a telephone interview today. “The
strength of conviction that there was going to be no more QE at
all would be less now than when it was in March, when everything
seemed to be going very well.”  U.S. nonfarm payrolls rose by 120,000 last month, the
smallest gain in five months, the Labor Department reported
April 6. Jobless claims unexpectedly climbed in the week ended
April 7 to 380,000, the most since January, the Labor Department
reported yesterday.  Fed Rate Outlook  The majority of respondents in the Citigroup survey expect
the Fed will first lift its target rate for overnight loans
between banks during the first half of 2014. The Fed has kept
its  benchmark rate  in a range of zero to 0.25 percent since
December 2008.  Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  and New York Fed President
William C. Dudley endorsed this week the central bank’s view
that borrowing costs are likely to stay low through at least
late 2014.  The average forecast yield on 10-year U.S. Treasury notes
in three months was 2.23 percent, according to the Citigroup
survey. Yields on the benchmark Treasuries fell seven basis
points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 1.98 percent today,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader Prices.  In the bank’s March survey, investors projected a 2.40
percent yield in three months. The yield reached that level on
March 20, which is the highest since October.  “Given the outsized move higher in rates during the early
part of March, it’s not surprising that the survey taken right
after that sounded more bearish on the Treasury market than it
does now given that yields have come back down,” Gollapudi said
in the interview.  Citigroup doesn’t disclose the number of respondents. The
survey was distributed to respondents on April 9 and closed
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  