-- Frugality Fatigue Spurs Americans to Trade Up
-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 2012-04-13T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/frugality-fatigue-spurs-americans-to-trade-up.html
Americans are buying more expensive
makeup and sandwiches again as  Estee Lauder Cos. (EL)  and  Dunkin’
Brands Group Inc. (DNKN)  get a boost from mid- to high-income
customers.  “Frugality fatigue” is driving a rise in retail sales
among consumers who’ve “grown tired of putting off
discretionary purchases,” said  Russell Price , a senior
economist at  Ameriprise Financial Inc. (AMP)  in  Detroit . Recent gains,
including a  6.5 percent  increase in February from a year earlier
-- have been bolstered by improvements in  consumer confidence 
and the labor and stock markets, along with some stabilization
in  home prices , he said.  “This has been a long, drawn-out recovery; and for most
people alive today, it’s the longest they’ve had to conserve
financially,” said Price, who was among the top-ranked
forecasters of quarterly gross-domestic-product growth for the
two years ending in February, according to the most-recent data
compiled by Bloomberg. “As their prospects improve, some pent-
up demand is being released.”  Even with a less-than-predicted gain in U.S. nonfarm
payrolls last month -- 120,000 compared with a median forecast
of 205,000 in a Bloomberg survey -- the economy has added
635,000 jobs since December as unemployment fell to  8.2 percent 
from 8.5 percent, Labor Department data show. Meanwhile, the
median price of existing homes climbed  0.3 percent  in February
from a year earlier, the biggest gain since July 2010, and the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index is up  10 percent  this year.  ‘Feeling the Wealth’  Mid- to high-income consumers are “feeling the wealth
effect” from an “amazing run” in the stock market, said Britt Beemer, chairman of America’s Research Group, a consumer-
behavior research and consulting company based in Charleston,
 South Carolina . The gain is leading some people to purchase name
brands in lieu of generic or buy spring fashions before they’ve
been deeply discounted, he said.  Sentiment among people earning more than $50,000 fell to
 minus 12.2  in the week ended April 8 from a four-year high of
minus 8.2 the prior week, according to the Bloomberg Consumer
Comfort Index. Americans making more than $100,000 were the only
income group with a positive reading:  9.7 (COMFO100) , the second-best since
January 2011.  Estee Lauder ’s “high-end luxury” skin-care and makeup
brands are growing “faster than average,” benefiting from
consumer trade-up and affluent shoppers, President and Chief
Executive Officer Fabrizio Freda said Feb. 24 at the Consumer
Analyst Group of New York conference. The New York-based
company’s 16.5-ounce Crème de la Mer moisturizing cream sells
for  $1,800 .  More Appetizers  Customers at  BJ’s Restaurants Inc. (BJRI)  eateries are ordering
more appetizers or drinks with their meals, Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Gerald Deitchle said on a Feb. 16 conference
call. As a result, the  Huntington Beach , California-based
operator is “selling more items per 100 guests today than we
ever have in the history of the company.”  Americans will probably eat out more frequently in the next
90 days -- and spend more while doing so -- as their financial
health improves, based on monthly surveys by  RBC Capital Markets 
in New York.  The portion of respondents who said they spent more than
planned at restaurants during the past 30 days reached a record
31 percent in February, according to a quarterly survey. They
predicted they will spend a combined $37.01 on restaurant meals
each week for the next three months -- up 2.7 percent from a
year earlier.  ‘Plodding Uphill’  Consumer-spending plans rose at full-service restaurants
for the second consecutive quarter and fell at quick-service
establishments, suggesting people probably will trade up again
after a year of trading down, said  Larry Miller , an RBC analyst
in Atlanta. Though dining-out intentions are “plodding uphill”
from low levels, there’s some momentum for a further recovery,
he said.  “This trend is encouraging because it’s rooted in strong
economic fundamentals,” Miller said, noting that one of the
most-cited reasons for increased purchasing plans was an
improving economy. The U.S. will expand 2.3 percent this year,
according to the median estimate of 75 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News from April 6 to April 11. Growth last year was
1.7 percent.  Even customers at fast-food chains such as Dunkin’ Brands
doughnut shops are opting for a “better level of sandwich,”
Chief Executive Officer Nigel Travis said on a Feb. 9 conference
call. This has helped to drive a “higher average ticket,” with
its smoked-sausage breakfast sandwich one of the best-
performing, limited-time offers in the Canton, Massachusetts-
based company’s history, he said.  ‘Live With Less’  As Americans have “learned to live with less,” income-tax
refunds could increase their willingness to spend, Beemer said.
For the first time in six years, people will have money left
over for discretionary purchases, after about two-thirds used a
majority of these funds to pay off bills or credit cards in the
past, he said, citing his company’s late March survey of 1,200
consumers nationwide.  The spending boost may be temporary, because rising
gasoline prices are “the biggest nemesis to retail sales,”
Beemer said. The average gallon of regular unleaded is up about
22 percent to  $3.91 (3AGSREG)  -- near a three-year peak -- from a low of
$3.21 in December, according to Heathrow, Florida-based AAA, the
largest U.S. motoring organization.  Some low-income consumers still are demonstrating
frugality, and industry data show there’s a “barbell”
phenomenon, with fine-dining and fast-food restaurants doing
well and middle-tier eateries struggling, Miller said.  Fixed-Price Menu  Ruth’s Hospitality Group Inc. (RUTH) , which operates upscale steak
and seafood restaurants, introduced a fixed-price meal for these
“special occasion” diners to keep sales up, even though “life
is largely back to normal” for its more-affluent customers,
Chief Financial Officer Arne Haak said at a March 6 conference
hosted by Raymond James & Associates Inc.  Kroger Co. (KR) , with grocery stores in 31 states, also has seen
bifurcated spending patterns, Chief Financial Officer Michael Schlotman said at a March 28 Telsey Advisory Group conference.
Its “budget-minded” shoppers continue to “show significant
signs of stress and are more likely to trade down” when there
are signs of economic weakness.  Even so, recent trends are encouraging, said Price of
Ameriprise, a financial-planning and services company, who sees
the disappointing March payroll numbers as an “aberration.”  As “employment prospects improve, consumers are going to
put some additional spending back into the economy,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in  New York  at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Feld at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  