-- GE Midmarket Lending Pipeline Expands 16% Amid U.S. Growth
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2012-04-13T20:45:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/ge-capital-midmarket-lending-rises-14-as-u-s-economy-grows-1-.html
General Electric Co.’s (GE)  finance unit
is expanding lending to small and mid-size businesses as
confidence in U.S. economic strength grows.  GE Capital  said it increased proposals to U.S. commercial
lending and leasing customers by 16 percent in the first quarter
from a year ago. Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization grew by 10 percent at companies to which GE
Capital lends, Dan Henson, chief executive officer of GE
Capital, Americas, said in a telephone interview.  Small and mid-size companies are becoming more optimistic
about the outlook for their businesses, with 67 percent
forecasting revenue growth this year and 74 percent expecting to
hire additional workers, according to a GE Capital survey of 495
chief financial officers at companies with annual sales of $50
million to $1 billion. Ninety-four percent of the CFOs said the
 U.S. economy  will grow or remain stable in 2012.  “Our customer base continues to become more profitable,
which supports the view of these CFOs that we’re on more stable
footing,” Henson, who oversees commercial lending and leasing
in  North America , said in an interview. “More and more they see
a growing environment.”  Credit availability has improved for companies in the
survey, with only 7 percent saying access to funds has decreased
over the past year. That’s compared with 24 percent in the first
quarter of 2010, when GE Capital first conducted the poll.  GE Capital’s North American commercial loans and lease
volume grew 15 percent last year to $106.8 billion. Worldwide,
the unit’s $45.7 billion of  revenue  last year accounted for 32
percent of Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE’s $142.2 billion in
total sales.  GE  fell  2.2 percent to $18.88 at the close in  New York  amid
a decline in the broader markets. The stock has advanced 5.4
percent this year, compared with a 9 percent gain for the
 Standard & Poor’s  500 index. The company is scheduled to report
first-quarter results on April 20.  Ned Reynolds, a GE Capital spokesman, declined to provide
the change in lending and leasing volume for the first quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Langford at 
 jlangford2@bloomberg.net  