-- German Stocks Retreat Amid Euro-Area Debt-Crisis Concern
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-04-13T15:55:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/german-stocks-drop-as-sap-commerzbank-fall-in-frankfurt.html
German stocks  dropped, as the  DAX
Index (DAX)  posted its longest stretch of weekly losses since August,
amid mounting concern that the euro area has yet to contain its
sovereign-debt crisis.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,  Germany’s largest
lenders , both lost more than 3 percent as the euro fell and the
cost of insuring against a Spanish default jumped to a record.
 Daimler AG (DAI)  paced a selloff in European carmakers.  The DAX Index sank 2.4 percent to 6,583.9 at the close in
 London , extending its retreat this week to 2.8 percent for a
fourth week of losses. The gauge has still gained  12 percent 
this year as the euro area’s leaders sought to contain the debt
crisis and as U.S. economic reports beat estimates. The broader
HDAX Index lost 2.2 percent today.  “There is a very good chance the  European Central Bank 
will start” buying bonds, said Justin Urquhart Stewart, who
helps oversee about $3 billion at 7  Investment Management  in
London, in a Bloomberg Television Interview. “We will get
short-term storms from time to time as people come in and upset
the markets as you can see with bond prices.”  Stocks extended declines after a gauge of U.S. consumer
confidence unexpectedly fell this month. Equities climbed
yesterday after Federal Reserve Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said
that  interest rates  will remain low to support the recovery of
the world’s largest economy.  German Inflation Slows  In Germany, inflation slowed in March as energy prices rose
at a weaker pace than a year earlier.  Inflation (GRCP2HYY)  eased to 2.3
percent from 2.5 percent in February, the Federal Statistics
Office in Wiesbaden said today, confirming a March 28 estimate.
Prices rose 0.4 percent in the month.  Deutsche Bank dropped 3.2 percent to 34.03 euros and
Commerzbank lost 4.3 percent to 1.64 euros, pacing a selloff in
European banks, as the euro fell against the dollar amid
speculation the ECB may need to restart its government bond
purchase program as the debt crisis worsens.  Spain ’s 10-year yield climbed toward 6 percent after data
showed Spanish banks’ borrowings from the ECB jumped by almost
50 percent in March. Credit-default swaps on Spain jumped 17
basis points to 498 in London, according to CMA.  Daimler lost 3.5 percent to 40.30 euros and  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  fell 1.7 percent to 67.50 euros as a gauge of
European carmakers tumbled more than 2.5 percent today after
 China  reported slower-than-expected economic growth. Daimler
generates  15 percent of its vehicle sales  in China, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bayer, Aixtron Fall  Bayer AG (BAYN)  slid 2.5 percent to 50.50 euros. Germany’s largest
drugmaker will pay at least $110 million to settle about 500
lawsuits over claims that its Yasmin line of birth-control pills
caused blood clots, people familiar with the agreements said.  Deutsche Telekom AG dropped 2 percent to 8.56 euros as
Reuters reported the phone company is mulling a bid for Tele
Columbus. Analysts at Banco Espirito Santo SA said on March 26
that Kabel Deutschland Holding AG was the “natural strategic
buyer” of the company. Kabel fell 0.6 percent to 46.60 euros.  Stada Arzneimittel AG (SAZ)  tumbled 4.9 percent to 23.48 euros.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. downgraded the generic-drug maker to
neutral, the equivalent of hold, from overweight.  Aixtron SE, a manufacturer of production equipment for
semiconductor and lighting makers, rose 2.6 percent to 13.72
euros after Berenberg Bank AG said in a report that the lighting
sector is attractive because of rising average selling prices
and structural demand for energy-efficient products.  Berenberg also upgraded U.S. peer,  Cree Inc. (CREE) , to hold from
sell, citing an expected boost in demand driven by lighting
applications.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  