-- German Inflation Slowed in March as Energy Rose at Weaker
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-04-13T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/german-inflation-slowed-in-march-as-energy-rose-at-weaker-pace.html
Inflation in Germany,  Europe ’s
largest economy, slowed in March as energy prices increased at a
weaker pace than a year ago.  Inflation (GRCP2HYY) , calculated using a harmonized European Union
method, eased to 2.3 percent from 2.5 percent in February, the
Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today, confirming a
March 28 estimate. Prices rose 0.4 percent in the month.  The  European Central Bank  last week kept its benchmark
 interest rate  at a record low of 1 percent as it tries to
balance the threat of inflation in Germany against recessions in
half of the region’s member countries. With German workers
winning some of the biggest pay increases in 20 years and
tensions in the Middle East driving up the cost of oil, policy
makers will “pay particular attention” to price developments,
ECB President  Mario Draghi  said.  “While wage policies won’t have an impact on the inflation
rates of today and tomorrow, they’re an indication that we will
have to get used to significantly higher inflation rates in the
medium term,” said  Joerg Lueschow , head of economics at WestLB
in Dusseldorf. “High  oil prices  will prevent prices from coming
down significantly in the short term amid weaker economic
growth.”  Energy prices rose 6.7 percent in March from a year
earlier, the statistics office said. If energy prices were
stripped out of the index, Germany’s non-harmonized inflation
rate would have been 1.6 percent in March instead of 2.1
percent, it said.  Euro-area inflation slowed to 2.6 percent in March from 2.7
percent in February. The ECB predicts the rate will remain above
2 percent for the rest of the year, even as the region’s economy
contracts amid the sovereign debt crisis. It aims to keep
inflation just below 2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  