-- Germany Expects Installation ‘Rally’ to Beat Solar Cuts
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-04-13T13:46:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/germany-expects-installation-rally-to-beat-solar-cuts.html
Germany ’s solar industry expects an
installation rush over the next six months as developers try to
beat planned subsidy cuts in the second-biggest market for sun
power.  Developers have brought forward plans to install panels on
concerns that reductions in feed-in tariffs scheduled to take
effect between April 1 and Sept. 30 make later investments
unfeasible, the BSW solar industry association said.  “We expect a ‘final rally’ during the next weeks but then
a drastic downturn in the market in the fall at the latest,”
Joerg Mayer, managing director of the BSW, said by e-mail.
“Thousands of solar jobs are then at risk.”  Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government wants to cut the pace
of annual solar installations by half after incentives for the
industry pushed installations to a record 7.5 gigawatts last
year, more than double targets. The reductions would take effect
about a year after Merkel decided to exit nuclear generation
after the Japan disaster and replace reactors with a mix of
renewable and more efficient fossil-fired generators.  Katharina Cholewa, an analyst at WestLB AG, expects Germany
to add 6 gigawatts of panels this year amid a “strong first
half, a decent third quarter and a weaker final quarter compared
to last year,” she said today from Dusseldorf.  The BSW at this point can’t give a reliable forecast for
installations for the year because it’s too early amid
parliamentary proceedings, David Wedepohl, a spokesman, said by
e-mail today. Germany will probably install 8 gigawatts of solar
power this year, the DIHK national chamber of industry and
commerce said on March 9.  Jobs at Risk  The government has amended the reductions at least twice
after protests from the industry and opposition politicians that
the changes threaten tens of thousands of jobs and harm the
country’s energy mix.  Lawmakers approved the cuts in a March 29 vote after the
government had given developers of larger ground-mounted  power
plants  until June 30 to complete projects. It had also pushed
back reductions for solar plants built on sites such as former
garbage dumps or former military bases until Sept. 30.  The  Bundesnetzagentur , a federal regulator overseeing the
energy sector, is still verifying solar installations for the
first quarter and can’t make a projection or comment further,
Renate Hichert, a spokeswoman, said today.  Electricity from solar panels rose 40 percent in the first
quarter compared with a year ago, the BSW said this week. Solar
panels generated 3.9 billion kilowatt-hours in the first three
months of the year, enough for about 4 million households.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  