-- Gleadell Loads 25,000 Tons of U.K. Milling Wheat
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-04-13T15:34:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/gleadell-loads-25-000-tons-of-u-k-milling-wheat.html
Gleadell Agriculture Ltd. is
loading 25,000 metric tons of U.K. milling wheat for shipping to
 Algeria , with another cargo of the same size to be sent next
month, Managing Director David Sheppard said.  Loading of the Handysize vessel Falcon Trader at grain
trader Gleadell’s Immingham terminal on the east coast of
 England ’s Humber Estuary is expected to be completed today,
Sheppard said by phone. Another 25,000 tons will be loaded in
May, he said.  Gainsborough, Lincolnshire-based Gleadell is a joint
venture of Hamburg-based grain trader Alfred C. Toepfer
International GmbH and Paris-based cooperative Union InVivo. The
U.K. wheat being loaded for shipping to Algeria was sold by
Toepfer in the past three months, Sheppard said today.  “It’s great for farmers because the milling wheat premiums
over feed are through the floor,” Sheppard said. The sale to
Algeria allows U.K. farmers to get a better price for milling
wheat over feed wheat, he said.  The grain was “competitively priced on the day,”
according to Sheppard, who declined to give financial details.  The April and May shipments follow a 25,000 ton cargo of
U.K. milling wheat in November, according to the director.
Supplies from the U.K. have become uncompetitive, meaning
further sales in coming months are unlikely, Sheppard said.  “I don’t think U.K. wheat today is particularly
competitive, the London May contract trades 4 pounds ($6.36)
above Matif,” Sheppard said, referring to the Paris milling
wheat contract. “We have no freight advantage, the quality is
no better.”  Loading 25,000 tons of wheat at the Immingham facility
takes about 3 1/2 days, according to Sheppard.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  