-- Glitch in Web-Name Expansion Program Found by Internet Overseer
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-04-13T16:10:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/glitch-in-web-name-expansion-program-found-by-internet-overseer.html
The organization that manages the
Internet’s address system said a glitch in its online
application system for new top-level domains let some users view
information about competitors.  A “limited” number of applicants were allowed to “view
some other users’ file names and user names in certain
scenarios,” Akram Atallah, chief operating officer of the
Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers, said in a
 statement  posted its website yesterday. The nonprofit group took
the system offline “to protect applicant data” and is
“considering appropriate steps forward,” he said.  Icann, operating under a U.S. Commerce Department contract,
began accepting applications Jan. 12 for new words to the right
of the dot in a Web address, including company and city names
such as .apple or .nyc. The group approved the expansion last
year in a move to spur online innovation. It has said the
program may result in thousands of new Web suffixes beyond .com
and .org.  More than 40 companies, including  General Electric Co. (GE) ,
 Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , and  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  have opposed the domain-
name expansion, saying a proliferation of Web suffixes will
increase costs for companies and confuse consumers. The U.S.
Federal Trade Commission has said the plan may increase
opportunities for Internet fraud and called on Icann to reduce
the number of domains created.  Icann first reported a “technical issue” with the online
application system in a  statement  yesterday and said it was
extending its application window to April 20. The group has said
it will publish a list of applicants on April 30.  Brad White, an Icann spokesman, declined today to comment
beyond the statement. Moira Vahey, a spokeswoman for the
Commerce Department’s National Telecommunications and
Information Administration, which oversees the Icann contract,
declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Engleman in  Washington  at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernie Kohn at 
 Bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 