-- Gross to Gundlach Lead Bond Investors Seeing QE3 From Fed
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n   a n d   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-04-13T15:56:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/gross-to-gundlach-lead-bond-investors-seeing-qe3-credit-markets.html
Bill Gross ,  Jeffrey Gundlach  and
 Dan Fuss , whose firms collectively oversee about $1.5 trillion,
expect the  Federal Reserve  to conduct a third round of bond
purchases as signs of strength in the U.S. economy fade and
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis returns.  The managers at Pacific Investment Management Co. and
DoubleLine Capital LP favor mortgage debt as Loomis Sayles & Co.
purchases corporate bonds. Speculation that the  Fed (FARBAST)  will buy
home-loan debt with quantitative easing has led 2012 returns on
government-backed mortgage bonds to exceed Treasuries by 0.96
percentage point, Barclays Plc index data show.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen 
and New York Fed President William C. Dudley signaled further
easing may be needed if growth lags behind projections, with
headwinds ranging from the end of tax breaks to $1 trillion of
mandatory federal budget cuts to $100-a-barrel oil eating into
 consumer spending . The Standard & Poor’s 500 has fallen as much
as 4.8 percent from an almost four-year high on April 2.  “Should the stock market keep going down, it will be a
portent of weaker economic data,” said Gundlach, whose $22.8
billion  DoubleLine Total Return Bond Fund (DBLTX)  outperformed 99
percent of peers last year. “It will happen and when it does
you will start to hear about more support programs.”  Gross, Fuss  While gross domestic product grew at a 3 percent pace in
the last three months of 2011, it will slow to 2.3 percent this
year, according to the median estimate of 90 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg.  Gross, the manager of the world’s biggest bond fund,
boosted holdings of mortgages last month to the most in almost
three years. Fuss, a member of the Fixed Income Analysts Society
Hall of Fame, said this week that the Fed may stick with
quantitative easing until after the presidential election or the
 unemployment rate  falls to about 6 percent from its current 8.2
percent.  Elsewhere in credit markets, strategists at  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  lowered their recommendation on U.S. investment-grade
corporate bonds to neutral from overweight, saying that
uncertainty about Europe’s fiscal crisis will limit returns for
the debt.  JPMorgan’s  Eric Beinstein , head of the New York-based
bank’s top-rated high-grade strategy team, said in a report
today that the extra yield the bonds pay more than similar-
maturity Treasuries is unlikely to tighten much in the next few
months as the European situation weighs on investor demand.  Default Swaps Rise  “We believe renewed uncertainty in peripheral Europe will
limit the ability of spreads to tighten meaningfully over the
next couple of months,” Beinstein wrote in the report. That
will counter expected positive developments in the Chinese and
U.S. economies, he wrote.  A benchmark gauge of corporate credit risk in the U.S. rose
for the first time in three days, with the Markit CDX North
America Investment Grade Index, which investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, increasing 3
basis points to a mid-price of 99.8 basis points as of 11:53
a.m. in  New York , according to Markit Group Ltd.  The index rises as investor confidence deteriorates and
falls as it improves. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Bonds of Goldman Sachs Group Inc. are the most actively
traded U.S. corporate securities by dealers today, with 47
trades of $1 million or more as of 11:55 a.m. in New York,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Mortgage Bonds  The mortgage-bond market is showing investors anticipate
more stimulus from the Fed. Yields on Fannie Mae’s current-
coupon 30-year mortgage bonds ended yesterday at 88 basis points
more than 10-year Treasuries, down from about 100 basis points
on Dec. 31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The type of
securities, which most affect home-loan rates because they trade
closest to face value, may be targeted by the Fed.  Primary dealers agree with investors, with 15 of the 21
firms that trade with the Fed saying odds are that the central
bank will need a third round of bond purchases to bolster the
economy, according to a Bloomberg News survey published April 2.  In its first two rounds of stimulus in response to the
credit crisis, the Fed bought $2.3 trillion of bonds from
December 2008 to June to avert deflation and spur growth. It’s
now replacing $400 billion of shorter-term maturity Treasuries
in its holdings with longer-term debt in a policy traders call
Operation Twist.  Policy Makers Meet  Central bankers next meet in two weeks to debate policy for
an economy that Dudley and Yellen said may be softening.
Projections for GDP growth this year are slower than the 3.1
percent posted in 2005 and 2.7 percent in 2006 before the
recession and financial crisis.  Fed officials called for additional stimulus only “if the
economy lost momentum” or if inflation stays below their 2
percent inflation target, according to minutes of their March 13
meeting released April 3.  “Considerable uncertainty surrounds the outlook,” Yellen
said April 11 in a speech in New York. “I consider a highly
accommodative policy stance to be appropriate in present
circumstances.”  ‘Still Too Soon’  Dudley, in a speech yesterday to business leaders in
Syracuse, New York, said “it is still too soon to conclude that
we are out of the woods.”  Europe ’s fiscal imbalances are again threatening to infect
the global financial system, with yields on Spanish 10-year
bonds topping 6 percent this week, approaching the 7 percent
level that prompted Greece, Ireland and Portugal to seek
bailouts.  “The problems in Europe are getting bigger,” Mohamed El- Erian, co-chief investment officer of Pimco, said April 11 on
Bloomberg Radio. “Europe has a debt issue and Europe has a
growth issue, and until Europe deals with both, we are going to
have these reoccurring periods of nervousness in the market.”  Tax reductions enacted by former President  George W. Bush 
are scheduled to expire at the end of 2012 and $1 trillion in
automatic cuts in  government spending  will begin in January.
Crude  oil prices  have soared to $103.67 a barrel, from last
year’s low of $75.67 on Oct. 4.  It’s “far too early to declare victory,” Bernanke said in
a March 27 interview with ABC News.  Hawkish Tone  Some Fed policy makers have struck a more hawkish tone.
Atlanta Fed President Dennis Lockhart, a voting member of the
Federal Open Market Committee this year, said in an April 3
interview on Bloomberg Radio that he would need to see some
“pretty severe circumstances” before he would endorse more
quantitative easing.  “With an improving economy, the argument for extraordinary
measures frankly becomes less tenable,” said Kenneth Taubes,
chief investment officer in  Boston  for Pioneer Investment
Management Inc., which oversees almost $30 billion in bonds.  Pimco’s Gross raised the $252.4 billion  Total Return Fund (PTTRX) ’s
holdings of mortgage bonds to 53 percent of assets in March, the
highest since June 2009, from 52 percent in February, according
to a report on the company’s  website  on April 11. He reduced the
proportion of U.S. government and Treasury debt to 32 percent
last month from 37 percent in February.  Operation Twist  The Fed will probably shift focus to buying mortgage
securities to keep borrowing rates low when its Operation Twist
program ends in June, Gross said in a March 28 interview on
Bloomberg Television.  “Without QE, the financial markets and then the economy
will falter,” Gross said in a Twitter post April 4. In a post
yesterday, he wrote that speeches this week by Yellen and Dudley
damped the probabilities of QE3.  Gundlach said softer economic numbers would push the Fed to
act.  “I just don’t think that we have a healthy fundamental
foundation for the economy and therefore surprises are likely to
be on the negative side,” Gundlach said in a telephone
interview from  Los Angeles . His fund, which invests in
mortgages, had 34 percent of its money in non-agency residential
mortgage-backed securities as of March 31, according to the
DoubleLine website.  Fuss’s $21 billion Loomis Sayles Bond Fund favors corporate
bonds, according to Matthew Eagan, one of the portfolio
managers. “We like them in a scenario in which the U.S. economy
muddles through,” Eagan said in a telephone interview. Europe’s
debt crisis is another issue that may tilt the Fed toward more
easing.  “Bernanke, Yellen and Dudley are all biased towards
additional easing,” Robert Michele, global chief investment
officer for fixed income and currency at JPMorgan Asset
Management, said in a telephone interview from New York.  Michele, who oversees $125 billion in fixed-income assets,
predicted the central bank would come back with more easing “as
we get into summer and fall” in the U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  