-- Grupo Zuliano to Buy Koch Stake in Venezuela Propylene Plant
-- B y   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s   a n d   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 2012-04-13T18:50:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/grupo-zuliano-to-buy-koch-stake-in-venezuela-propylene-plant-1-.html
Grupo Zuliano (GZL)  CA will buy a 35
percent stake in a Venezuelan propylene plant from  Koch
Industries  Inc., Armando Sandoval, general manager of the
Maracaibo-based company, said today.  The transaction, valued at about $35 million, will be
completed by April 30, said Sandoval in a phone interview.  Grupo Zuliano, a Maracaibo-based holding company whose
subsidiaries produce chemicals and plastics, previously had a 15
percent stake in Propileno de Falcon CA, known as Profalca, and
will now hold 50 percent. A unit of Venezuelan state-run
chemicals company Pequiven SA holds the remaining amount. The
acquisition was approved in a shareholders meeting yesterday,
Sandoval said.  “Koch wanted to exit the joint venture,” said Sandoval.
“We want to consolidate our business with Pequiven and for that
reason are increasing our stake.”  Koch’s divestment of the propylene plant stake comes after
its 35 percent stake in the FertiNitro Venezuelan fertilizer
joint venture was nationalized by President  Hugo Chavez  in 2010.
Koch Industries last year filed for arbitration against
 Venezuela  at the World Bank’s International Centre for
Settlement of Investment Disputes, or ICSID, to seek
compensation.  Melissa Cohlmia, a spokeswoman for Wichita, Kansas-based
Koch, did not immediately respond to an e-mail and a phone
message left today seeking comment.  Profalca, the joint venture formed in 1997, invested $70
million to build a chemical plant that makes propylene, a raw
material used to make a plastic that goes into car parts, toys
and household items.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net ;
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  