-- Guinea Bissau Soldiers Attack Leader’s Home in Coup Attempt
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a   a n d   A r m a n d o   L o n a
-- 2012-04-13T18:34:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/guinea-bissau-prime-minister-s-residence-attacked-by-soldiers.html
Soldiers in  Guinea  Bissau attacked
and sealed off the residence of Prime Minister Carlos Gomes Jr,
weeks before an election in which he was the front-runner,
according to a military official familiar with the situation.  Shots were fired at Gomes Jr’s home and he is currently
being held by the military, said the official, who declined to
be identified because he isn’t authorized to speak to reporters.
Gomes Jr won 49 percent of votes cast in the country’s
presidential election on March 18, not enough for a first-round
victory. A run-off vote was set for April 29.  The West African nation, which borders  Senegal  and Guinea,
relies on cashew nuts for export earnings, though cocaine
trafficking from  Latin America  to  Europe  using Guinea Bissau as
a transit point is a lucrative trade, according to the U.S.
Central Intelligence Agency. The election is being held to
replace former President Malam Bacai Sanha, who died of
complications from diabetes in January.  “We strongly condemn the attempt by certain elements of
the military to undermine the legitimate civilian leadership
of Guinea Bissau,” Mark Toner, a U.S. State Department
spokesman, told reporters today in  Washington . He urged “all
parties to put down their weapons, release government leaders
immediately and restore legitimate civilian leadership.”  The soldiers, who call themselves the Military Command,
acted to halt an alleged aggression from  Angola , which has a
military presence in the country, Portuguese broadcaster SIC
Noticias reported, citing a statement from the troops. Their
ambition is not to take over power, SIC Noticias said.  ‘Hidden Agreement’ Suspected  “Officially, the Angolans were in Bissau to help with army
reform, but many thought there was some kind of hidden agreement
between the Angolans and Carlos Gomes Jr,” Vincent Foucher, a
researcher at Brussels-based  International Crisis Group , said by
phone from Dakar, Senegal. “This is a military intervention
against the most powerful person in the country.”  Angola, which had been providing military training and
advice to Guinea Bissau since 2010, announced on April 10 it
planned to end its mission there at the request of the country’s
military.  The mission was agreed on after the 2009 assassination of
President Joao Bernardo Vieira and army chief General Batista
Tagme Na Waie.  A post-coup administration “would likely seek to reduce
Angola’s economic footprint in the country,” which may lead to
delays at a $500 million bauxite mine and a deep-water port
being developed by the southern African nation in Guinea Bissau,
according to a statement from London-based Exclusive Analysis
Ltd., a risk analysis company.  Parties Summoned  The Military Command summoned all political parties in
Guinea Bissau for a meeting to find a solution to the current
crisis, according to the African service of Portuguese state
radio, RDP-Africa, which cited a statement from the soldiers.  “Whatever grievances the military may have had that
prompted them to take these actions can be redressed through
dialogue,” Nigerian President  Goodluck Jonathan  said in an e-
mailed statement.  The Economic Community of West African States, the regional
grouping of 15 countries including Guinea Bissau, denounced the
attacks in an e-mailed statement today.  The “flagrant defiance of the community’s principle of
zero tolerance for power obtained by” coups “cannot go
unpunished,” Ecowas Commission President Desire Ouedraogo, said
in the statement.  “If the international community does not take a clear,
firm and determined position, the current military rulers in
Guinea will continue to be a source of violence, instability,
suffering and impoverishment of the Guinean people,” Anibal Cavaco Silva, president of the former colonial ruler  Portugal ,
said today in Lisbon.  The U.S. State Department advised its nationals in Bissau
to avoid the city’s downtown, while the U.K. Foreign Office said
people should stay “in a safe place,” according to a
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net ;
Armando Lona in Bissau via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  