-- Microsoft’s Leung Quits as Head of China, Prompting Reshuffle
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2012-04-13T09:58:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/microsoft-s-leung-quits-as-head-of-china-prompting-reshuffle.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the world’s
biggest software maker, reshuffled top executives at its
European and Chinese operations, after the company said Simon Leung quit as chief executive of the greater China region.  Leung is leaving for “personal and family reasons,” and
will be replaced by Ralph Haupter, currently vice-president at
Microsoft Germany, the company said in a statement today. Gordon Frazer, managing director of Microsoft U.K., will take over as
chief operating officer for greater China from Michel van der
Bel, who is moving into Frazer’s U.K. role, it said.  Haupter, a former executive at  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM) , will lead Microsoft’s efforts to combat software
piracy and boost sales of Windows Phone smartphones in  China ,
the world’s second-biggest economy. Almost four out of five
computer programs used in China are pirated, according to data
from the Business Software Alliance.  “China represents an unprecedented opportunity for growth
across the breadth of our business,” Jean-Philippe Courtois,
president of Microsoft International, said in the statement.
Haupter will report to Courtois, Microsoft said.  Leung will leave his position at the end of the month, and
will serve as an adviser until August, Charles Shen, a Microsoft
spokesman in Beijing, said by telephone today.  The percentage of software in China that is pirated dropped
to 78 percent in 2010, the Business Software Alliance said in
its annual report in May last year. The annual commercial value
of software pirated in the country was $7.78 billion, according
to the group.  The greater China region covers mainland China,  Taiwan  and
 Hong Kong , according to Microsoft.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Lee in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  