-- High-Yield Bond Funds in the U.S. Have First Outflow of 2012
-- B y   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g
-- 2012-04-13T20:56:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/high-yield-bond-funds-in-the-u-s-have-first-outflow-of-2012.html
Investors withdrew $1.18 billion
from U.S. high-yield, high-risk bond funds for the week ended
April 11, the first outflow in more than four months, according
to EPFR Global data.  The withdrawals were broadly based, with less than a third
of the cut attributable to exchange-traded funds, according to
 Cameron Brandt , director of research at Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based EPFR. Speculative-grade bond funds last had
an outflow in the week ended Nov. 30, when they lost $940
million.  Investors are pulling money out of funds that purchase
bonds that are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and
less than BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s  amid renewed concern that
the sovereign-debt crisis will hamper the global economic
recovery.  “There’s certainly a degree of risk-off at the moment with
Europe and the fact that the  Federal Reserve  has not been doing
much to confirm another round of quantitative easing this
year,” Brandt said in a telephone interview.  Redemptions from global high-yield bond funds for the week
ended April 11 were $1.4 billion, the largest weekly outflow
since the end of November, according to EPFR Global. Emerging-
market debt and equity funds both posted outflows for the second
week this year.  Perceptions that junk-bond prices had risen steeply as well
as uncertainty about Spain’s financial situation caused the
recent pullback, according to  Martin Fridson , global credit
strategist at BNP Paribas SA in  New York .  “I would be very surprised to see an outflow of the same
magnitude next week,” Fridson said in a telephone interview.
“The tone has been a little better the last couple days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Perlberg in New York at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  