-- IMF’s Eyzaguirre Cautions Latin America Against Monetary Easing
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-04-13T13:29:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/imf-s-eyzaguirre-cautions-latin-america-against-monetary-easing.html
Policy makers in  Latin America 
should be careful not to “over-stimulate” their economies by
lowering lending rates as the region is likely to keep growing
near capacity even amid global turmoil, according to the
International Monetary Fund’s top official for the region.  Nicolas Eyzaguirre, director of the fund’s Western
Hemisphere department, said the World Economic Outlook being
released next week should show growth in Latin America and the
Caribbean this year near the IMF’s January forecast of 3.6
percent.  “The region is growing as much as it can and as much as it
should,” Eyzaguirre, a former Chilean finance minister, said in
a phone interview from  Washington  yesterday. “Generally
speaking things can’t be more favorable, but risks are looming
on the horizon.”  Those risks include a deterioration of the Euro area
economy or a faster-than-forecast deceleration in  China , a top
buyer of South American commodities like copper and iron ore.
Rather than cutting borrowing costs if global financial
instability resumes, policy makers should take alternative steps
to sustain liquidity without boosting demand, he said.  “Economies have enough stamina to grow at about potential
growth without idle capacity,” said Eyzaguirre, who received
his doctorate in economics from  Harvard University  in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts . “Central banks should be very careful not to
over-stimulate the economy.”  Upside Risks  Policy makers in  Brazil  cut the benchmark  interest rate  to
9.75 percent last month, bringing it below 10 percent for only
the second time since the central bank began targeting inflation
in 1999. While the pace of price increases has slowed since
August, when the bank began cutting rates, inflation has stayed
above the government’s 4.5 percent target since 2010 as near
record-low unemployment and double-digit credit growth fuel
demand.  Mexican central bankers said in the minutes of their March
policy meeting that if inflation eases, they may cut borrowing
costs after keeping rates unchanged for about three years.  While renewed instability in  Europe  could spur investors to
withdraw capital from Latin America, that’s a less likely
scenario than the one seen in 2010, when excessive global
liquidity poured into the region, Eyzaguirre said. Such a
prospect could put pressure on regional currencies already
trading above historical averages and lead to overheating as
demand in many countries remains robust.  “Compared to other regions in the world, downside risks in
 South America  are probably more muted and the upside risks are
more possible,” he said. “There are other parts of the world
where there is a lot of idle capacity, so upside risks would be
welcome. In the case of Latin America, they would not be.”  Mexico Elections  South American commodity exporters, including Chile and
 Peru , have a high growth potential this year while  Mexico  is on
track to exceed output capacity by “a bit,” Eyzaguirre said.  The outcome of Mexico’s presidential election poses little
risk as candidates seem to have formed consensus around the
basic principles of economic policy, he said.  “Macroeconomic policy in Mexico has been extremely
appropriate,” he said. “They are on a very balanced growth
trajectory.”  Gross domestic product in Brazil and Mexico, Latin
America’s two biggest economies, will expand 3 percent and 3.5
percent respectively, according to January estimates made by the
Washington-based lender.  Eyzaguirre said that an IMF and World Bank mission will
probably travel to Argentina before year’s end to conduct an
assessment of the country’s financial stability as agreed to by
all Group of 20 members. The mission, which must be agreed to by
 Argentina , will probably include some basic analysis of the
country’s economy, he said.  Argentina hasn’t had a so-called Article IV review of its
economy, as is required of all IMF members, since 2006.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  