-- India’s Sugar Exports to Exceed 2.5 Million Tons, Czarnikow Says
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-04-13T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/india-s-sugar-exports-to-exceed-2-5-million-tons-czarnikow-says.html
Sugar exports from  India , the
world’s second-biggest grower, will exceed 2.5 million metric
tons this season for a second consecutive year, according to
Czarnikow Group Ltd. in London.  India has authorized exports of 3 million tons for the
season that started in October as local supplies are higher than
demand. The country may have another 1.5 million tons of sugar
available for export, the Indian Sugar Mills Association said on
April 3, urging the country’s government to allow additional
shipments “immediately.”  “The Indian government has been far more pro-active in
authorizing export tonnages than last year,” Czarnikow, which
traded sugar in over 90 countries last year, said in an e-mailed
statement today. “Previous Indian surpluses coincided with
depressed world market values.”  Raw sugar futures traded on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York 
dropped 27 percent last year and are little changed this year.
At 23.46 cents a pound, sugar is still above the 20-year average
of 11.9 cents a pound, according to data on Bloomberg.  Indian sugar production in the 2011-12 season will be
“just short” of 26 million tons, Czarnikow estimated. That
represents an increase of 1.5 million tons from last year,
according to the company, which said it handles about 10 percent
of the 50 million tons of sweetener traded annually.  Higher sugar prices in the world market have enabled India
to export this season, it said. In previous years, domestic and
global surpluses coincided, limiting India’s ability to ship,
according to the report.  Farmers in the India will probably stick to planting cane
next season, as returns from wheat and rice were “poor,” it
said.  Mill Debts  In previous seasons, mills built up debts to farmers,
limiting their ability to plant for the new season and resulting
in wide swings in production from one year to the next,
Czarnikow said. Indian sugar production dropped 44 percent in
2008-09 to about 16 million tons and then rebounded to 20.6
million the next season,  U.S. Department of Agriculture  data
show. This year, cane arrears have been avoided, Czarnikow said.  “The swing cycle is reducing in scale and the widely-
expected downturn in Indian production in 2012-13 may not
occur,” Peter de Klerk, an analyst at Czarnikow, said in the
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in  London  at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 