-- Indonesian Bonds Decline on Inflation Concern; Rupiah Gains
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2012-04-13T09:16:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/indonesian-bonds-decline-on-inflation-concern-rupiah-weakens.html
Indonesia ’s 10-year government bond
yields touched the highest level in almost three months on
speculation fuel subsidies will be lowered, stoking inflation.  Bank Indonesia  and the  finance ministry  see a high chance
of a reduction in fuel subsidies through a price increase,
rationing scheme or both, Bank of America Merrill Lynch said,
citing comments from a conference call today with the officials.
The government plans to propose limiting sales of subsidized
fuel, Jero Wacik, energy and mineral resources minister, said
today. Inflation may reach 6.6 percent this year if prices are
raised, Bank Indonesia Governor Darmin Nasution said yesterday.  “Bonds may see their prices continue to decline,” said
Apressyanti Senthaury, a Jakarta-based analyst in the treasury
division of PT Bank Negara Indonesia. “Investors are still
anticipating when the government may raise fuel prices.”  The yield on the government’s 7 percent bonds due May 2022
climbed 11 basis points this week, or 0.11 percentage point, to
6.03 percent, the highest since Jan. 17, according to final
prices from the Inter Dealer Market Association. The yield
gained three basis points today.  The rupiah rose 0.3 percent today and this week to 9,140
per dollar as of 4:12 p.m. in Jakarta, according to prices from
local banks compiled by Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility,
which measures exchange-rate swings used to price options, was
unchanged at 6.75 percent for a seventh day.  Parliament has authorized an increase in the price of
subsidized fuel should the Indonesian Crude Price exceed the
budget assumption by an average of 15 percent over a six-month
period. The average was 11 percent above that level as of March
31, according to Bloomberg calculations based on data from the
Energy and Mineral Resources Ministry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in  Singapore  at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 