-- Infosys Net Climbs 27% as Customers Outsource More Work
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2012-04-13T11:56:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/infosys-net-climbs-27-as-customers-outsource-more-work.html
Infosys Ltd. (INFO) , India’s second-
largest software-services exporter,  slumped  the most in almost
three years in Mumbai trading after forecasting sales that
missed analyst estimates.  Sales in the year that began April 1 may be between 384.3
billion rupees ($7.5 billion) and 391.4 billion rupees,
Bangalore, India-based Infosys said in a statement today. That
lagged behind the 396.3 billion-rupee  median  of 64 analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Infosys also reported  fourth-
quarter sales  that trailed estimates.  Indian software exporters  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) 
and  Wipro Ltd. (WPRO)  tumbled the most in six months after Infosys
Chief Executive Officer S.D. Shibulal said the year ahead
“looks challenging” for information-technology services. Amid
outsourcing deals that are taking longer to finalize, researcher
Gartner Inc. this month cut its estimate for 2012 global
industry spending growth, citing the dollar’s gains.  “It’s a shocker,” said Ankita Somani, an analyst at Angel
Broking Ltd. “The results are very bad, the guidance is very,
very disappointing. They are guiding less than the rate at which
the industry will grow.”  India ’s software industry is estimated to grow between 11
percent and 14 percent, and Infosys’s guidance is lower than
that, Somani said in a phone interview today, citing a forecast
by the National Association of Software and Service Companies, a
group of Indian information-technology companies.  TCS, Wipro  Infosys slumped 13 percent, the most since May 2009, to
2,402.55 rupees at the close in Mumbai trading. The stock was
the  biggest contributor  to the benchmark Sensitive Index’s 1.4
percent decline. Tata Consultancy, India’s biggest software
exporter, fell 5.6 percent, and Wipro, the industry’s third-
biggest, slid 4.5 percent. Tata and Wipro have yet to report
earnings.  “We had seen unprecedented convergence of various
phenomena -- we’ve seen contract delays, we have seen slowness
in decision making, we have seen ramp-downs in specific cases --
especially in financial services and in  North America ,”
Shibulal told reporters at a briefing. “The budgets for next
year are closed, marginally down or flat. But what we’re
finding, especially in the financial services sector, is that
spending seems to be almost month-to-month.”  Worldwide spending on information-technology services will
increase at a  slower pace  of 1.3 percent to $856 billion this
year after climbing 6.5 percent last year,  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based research company Gartner said April 5.  ‘Moving Away’  “Investors are moving away from Infosys to other IT majors
like TCS and Wipro,” said Shishir Bajpai, senior vice president
at Mumbai-based IIFL Wealth Management Ltd., which has $1.8
billion in stocks under management and advisory. “I won’t put
the whole  software industry  in one basket. There’s no stress on
the IT industry, it’s specific to Infosys.”  Infosys’s  sales  in the year ending March 31 in U.S. dollar
terms may range from $7.55 billion to $7.69 billion, and
earnings per American depository share may be in the range of
$3.12 to $3.17, according to the statement.  “I think Infosys’s business model is likely to face
challenges from two fronts -- their smaller, nimbler competitors
like Cognizant who accept lower margins are getting better at
delivery,” said Ankur Rudra, the top-ranked Infosys analyst,
who rates Infosys sell at Ambit Capital Pvt. in Mumbai. “If
Infosys wants the historical margins, it’s going to be difficult
for them to grow in line with the industry.”  Cognizant Technology Solutions Corp. (CTSH) , based in Teaneck,  New
Jersey , in February forecast 2012 revenue that topped estimates.
The provider of technology consulting and outsourcing had an
 operating margin  of 18.6 percent last year, compared with a 29
percent operating margin at Infosys, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Margin Pressure  The operating margin at Infosys may decline by as much as
200 basis points in the current quarter from the previous three-
month period because of higher visa-related costs and local
hiring in the U.S., Chief Financial Officer V. Balakrishnan told
reporters. The margin may drop between 50 and 100 basis points
in the year ending March 31, 2013, he said.  Infosys is facing a higher rate of visa application
rejections in the U.S. and will hire more local workers,
Balakrishnan said in an interview on Feb. 29.  “They are also seeing increasing competition from
Accenture and IBM, who’ve become more competitive by scaling up
their presence in India,” Ambit’s Rudra said.  India remains the most affordable location in terms of
total employee cost for information technology services
outsourcing, according to Anurag Rana, an analyst with Bloomberg
Industries. At $23,829, the cost is lower than the $24,194 per
worker in the Philippines and more than five times less than the
$130,300 per full-time employee in the U.S.  Slow Deals  Fourth-quarter  net income  at Infosys rose to 23.2 billion
rupees in the three months ended March 31 from 18.2 billion
rupees a year  earlier , the company reported today. That compares
with the 23 billion-rupee median of 52 analysts’  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales in the quarter totaled 88.5 billion rupees, compared
with analysts’ estimate for 91.7 billion rupees.  “Deals, which earlier took six months to get finalized,
are now taking nine to 12 months,” Vihang Naik, an analyst at
MF Global Sify Securities Pvt. in Mumbai, said before the
announcement. “People are taking more time to evaluate the
efficacy of the spend. Deal sizes are getting a bit smaller,
nobody wants to commit on huge, big-budget deals.”  Infosys designs and builds software programs, maintains
computers and provides consulting and outsourcing services for
 customers  including  BP Plc (BP/)  and Neiman Marcus Group Inc.  Order Wins  Infosys won orders from ING  Belgium , GlaxoSmithKline Plc, a
North American telecommunications company and a utility company
to end the 12 months to March 31 with a total of  694  “active”
customers, compared with 620 a year earlier.  The software provider draws the majority of its revenue in
dollars and euros from clients in the U.S. and  Europe . Currency
fluctuations and “an economic slowdown or other factors that
help affect the economic health” of the U.S. and Europe were
risk factors Infosys cited in its last annual report.  Customers in North America contributed 62.4 percent of the
company’s revenue last quarter, down from 63.7 percent in the
previous three months, and clients in Europe provided 23.1
percent, an increase from 22.6 percent in the preceding period.  The company said today it will pay a special  dividend  of 10
rupees a share. Infosys also will pay investors 22 rupees a
share as final dividend.  “There is some conservatism that’s been built into our
guidance because we’ve seen volatility in the recent past,”
Balakrishnan said. “Looking at the guidance, the clients’
budgets, the way the economy is panning out, we believe that 8
to 10 percent is a growth we can achieve at this point in time.
Who knows, if tomorrow there is some recovery and clients become
more comfortable, they spend more, we may do better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  