-- Iran Nuclear Talks ‘Constructive’ After 15-Month Break
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2012-04-14T13:43:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/iran-nuclear-talks-in-istabul-aim-for-sustained-process-.html
Talks on  Iran’s nuclear program 
resumed today after a gap of more than a year, with Israel and
the U.S. threatening military strikes to prevent the Islamic
Republic from developing atomic weapons.  The so-called P5+1 group of five permanent United Nations
Security Council members -- Britain,  China ,  France ,  Russia  and
the U.S. -- plus  Germany  are meeting Iranian delegates in
Istanbul for the first time since January 2011, when they broke
up without agreement. Iran says it is developing nuclear
technology to generate power and for medical purposes.  “Talks were conducted in a constructive atmosphere this
morning,”  Michael Mann , a spokesman for the European Union
delegation, told reporters as the parties broke for lunch.
“Last year, the talks didn’t lead anywhere, and we’re hopeful
that this year they will,” he said. “Things are better than
they were last year.”  Speculation about a military attack on  Iran  and a possible
decline in the country’s oil output because of embargoes by the
U.S. and EU have helped push  Brent crude  prices 13 percent
higher this year. Iran is the second-largest producer in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.  Building Confidence  “I hope what we will see today is the beginnings of a
sustained process” to build confidence between the participants
and “demonstrate that Iran is moving away from a nuclear
weapons program,”  Catherine Ashton , the EU foreign policy chief
who is leading the P5+1 group, said in a statement as the talks
started. “Much depends on what Iran is putting on the table
today.”  Brent crude for May settlement climbed 12 cents to expire
at $121.83 a barrel in  London  yesterday. The more actively
traded June contract dropped 31 cents, or 0.3 percent, to
$121.21 a barrel.  Iran will attend the first round of talks with a
“constructive spirit and initiatives,”  Saeed Jalili , the
country’s nuclear envoy, said late yesterday after a three hour-
dinner with Ashton, according to state-run Mehr news agency.
Jalili said Iran will stick to its fundamental rights.  Delegates began talks at about 11 a.m. local time,
according to two Western officials with knowledge of the
meeting. All delegations in the P5+1 group told the Iranians
that they would welcome one-on-one meetings, one of the people
said.  Invited to Baghdad  Iran’s negotiating partners would be receptive to holding
the next round of negotiations in  Baghdad , within four to six
weeks, another Western diplomat said. All the officials spoke on
condition of anonymity because the talks aren’t public.  “We’ve taken note of the invitation of the Iraqi
government,” Mann said in response to a question about
reconvening in Baghdad. “We’re hoping we’ll be able to announce
a second round of talks, but results have to be substantive.”  The negotiations come two months after Jalili wrote to
Ashton to say that Iran was ready to hold talks. He made the
offer as the U.S. and EU tightened sanctions on Iran and as
Israeli leaders, such as Defense Minister  Ehud Barak , said that
time was running out to avoid a military strike intended to
prevent Iran from developing nuclear weapons.  The start of talks is a “positive sign,”  Ben Rhodes , a
deputy national security adviser at the White House, told
reporters traveling yesterday with President Barack Obama to
Florida and a summit in Latin America.  Dialogue as ‘Process’  “Dialogue must be seen as a process rather than an
event,” Iran’s Foreign Minister  Ali Akbar Salehi  wrote in an
April 12 op-ed column in Washington Post. “If the intention of
dialogue is merely to prevent cold conflict from turning hot,
rather than to resolve differences, suspicion will linger.”  Iran has a growing stockpile of 20 percent enriched
uranium, which could be purified further into atomic-bomb
material.  “Our position is that Iran must live up to its
international obligations, including the full suspension of
uranium enrichment, as required by multiple UN Security Council
resolutions,” White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said April 11.  Iran has produced enough 20 percent enriched uranium to
fuel its Tehran research reactor for at least five to 10 years,
according to the  Institute for Science and International
Security , a research group in  Washington . That reactor produces
isotopes used in medical treatment for 800,000 Iranians a year,
according to Salehi’s column.  Uranium Enrichment  Further stockpiling of 20 percent enriched uranium “poses
a growing threat” that some will be diverted for weapons use,
according to the April 10 ISIS report.  Iran is enriching uranium to the 20 percent level at an
underground facility at Fordo, near Qom, under monitoring from
the  International Atomic Energy Agency . The “safeguards”
monitoring by the UN agency is intended to prevent diversion for
use in making nuclear weapons, which require enrichment to the
90 percent level. Civilian nuclear  power plants  require 5
percent low-enriched uranium.  The issues of how much enrichment Iran may be allowed to
continue and under what conditions are among the topics for
negotiation. The IAEA said Feb. 24 its inspectors had not been
given sufficient access to Iran’s facilities to be able to
provide “credible assurance” about the absence of undeclared
nuclear activities.  ‘Real Incentives’  Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov, the head of
his country’s delegation to Istanbul, said yesterday that Iran
must be offered “real incentives” to allow full monitoring of
its nuclear program, rather than being told to halt uranium
enrichment immediately.  Iran’s tactical goals are to buy time and alleviate the
sanctions, said Bruno Tertrais, senior research fellow at the
Foundation for Strategic Research in Paris, in a phone
interview.  “The only way for the sanctions to be alleviated or at
least be partially suspended would be a suspension of all
Iranian enrichment activities,” he said. Iran’s long-term goal
is for the P5+1 powers to recognize its “right to enrichment,”
Tertrais said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  