-- Irish May Need More Cuts to Reach Fiscal Target, OECD Says
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2012-04-13T13:04:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/irish-may-need-more-cuts-to-reach-fiscal-target-oecd-says-1-.html
Ireland may need to make more
budget savings this year to reach its deficit target as  growth 
prospects deteriorate, said David Haugh, a senior economist at
the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  “It is possible that the government will have to do a
little more in terms of fiscal consolidation this year” to
reach its deficit goal of 8.6 percent of gross domestic product,
Haugh, head of the Irish Desk at the Paris-based OECD, said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “The prospects for the Irish
economy have weakened.”  The OECD is reviewing its 1 percent growth forecast for the
Irish economy for this year and “risks are definitely to the
downside,” Haugh said. The Irish central bank on April 5
forecast growth of 0.5 percent for the economy and said the
government’s budget targets remain within reach even as the
economy slipped into a recession in the last quarter of 2011.  Ireland will find it “tough” to re-enter international
bond markets next year and yields need to fall to between 5
percent and 6 percent for funding costs to be sustainable, Haugh
said. The country’s current 67.5 billion-euro ($88.7 billion)
international rescue program finishes at the end of 2013.  Ireland’s October 2020 bonds, regarded as the benchmark,
yielded 6.82 percent today, down from 9.1 percent at the start
of December. Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said last month the
government will lower its 1.3 percent growth forecast.  Missing Targets  Michael Saunders , head of European economics at Citigroup
Inc. in  London , said he expects the Irish economy to contract
this year and that missed fiscal targets and weaker growth may
require the country to seek a second bailout.  “I think Ireland will miss its fiscal targets this year,
next year, the year after that and probably the year after that
as well,” Saunders said by phone today. “More cuts would be
counterproductive as it would just deepen the economic hole.”  Ireland’s economy probably shrank for a third consecutive
quarter in the first three months of this year, according to
Saunders, who cited recent declines in retail sales, industrial
production and property prices.  “The signs aren’t very healthy,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  