-- Italian Industrial Output Falls for Second Month on Slump
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-04-13T13:27:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/italian-industrial-output-falls-for-second-month-on-slump.html
Italian industrial  production 
contracted for a second month in February as the country’s
fourth recession since 2001 and government austerity measures
weighed on demand for manufactured goods.  Output dropped 0.7 percent from January, when it declined a
revised 2.6 percent, national statistics office  Istat  said today
in Rome. The February rate matched the median forecast of 10
estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey . Production fell 6.8
percent from a year earlier on a workday-adjusted basis.  Mario Monti , the unelected premier who took over after
Silvio Berlusconi’s resignation in November, has pushed through
20 billion euros ($26.3 billion) in spending cuts and tax
increases as he tries to eliminate the  budget deficit  next year.
He followed up with reforms aimed at revamping the economy to
spur future growth, though the austerity measures helped tip
 Italy  into a recession in the fourth quarter.  Italian economic growth has trailed the euro-region average
for more than a decade and the European Commission forecasts a
contraction of 1.3 percent this year.  Confindustria, the country’s employer’s lobby, estimated
today that industrial output contracted 2.3 percent in the first
quarter, about the same as the 2.4 percent decline in the final
three months of last year.  Fiat SpA, Italy’s biggest manufacturer, has frozen
additional European investments and postponed the release of new
models in the region, where Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  doesn’t foresee an industry-wide recovery until next
year at the earliest. Fiat’s Italian sales fell 36 percent in
March and Marchionne said he expects Italian car sales to end
the year at the lowest level since 1985.  Istat originally reported a decline of 2.5 percent for
industrial production in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in  Rome  at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  