-- Liverpool Considers Cruyff, Van Gaal to Replace Comolli: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-04-13T05:58:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/liverpool-considers-cruyff-van-gaal-to-replace-comolli-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  Liverpool Goes Dutch  Liverpool owner Fenway Sports Group is actively looking at
candidates to replace director of football Damien Comolli with
Dutchmen Johan Cruyff and Louis van Gaal the early contenders,
the  Daily Mail reported .  Cruyff, 64, helped to set up the academy system at European
champion Barcelona and has consultancy roles at Ajax and Chivas
Guadalajara, while the 60-year-old van Gaal is available
immediately, the Mail added.  Dalglish Vulnerable  The departure of Comolli yesterday 18 months after being
hired by Fenway Sports leaves manager  Kenny Dalglish  in a more
vulnerable position even though he received a vote of confidence
from Chairman  Tom Werner , the  Daily Telegraph reported .  Comolli’s exit removed the last layer of protection for
Dalglish as some supporters hunted an alternative scapegoat for
the club’s poor Premier League performance to their icon, the
newspaper added.  Balotelli to Stay  Mario Balotelli  will stay with  Manchester City  for the next
two years even after a controversial season at the Premier
League club in which he’s received three red cards, the  Guardian
reported , citing the Italian striker’s agent Mino Raiola.  “There is enormous pressure from the fans on Mario but
Manchester City do not intend to sell him,” the newspaper cited
Raiola as saying. “He must grow here, then in one or two years
we’ll see. He must stay here. It is not true he is unhappy.”  Pogba’s Choice  Raiola, who also represents Manchester United’s Paul Pogba,
said the French midfielder faces a straight choice between
signing a new contract at Old Trafford or joining Juventus, the
 Daily Mail reported .  Although Manchester City, Arsenal, Chelsea and AC Milan are
also interested in the 19-year-old, the Mail cited Raiola as
saying that Pogba “can remain at  Manchester United  or go to
Juventus.”  Serbian Winger  Chelsea and Tottenham face a fight to sign Juventus’s Milos Krasic after Turkish club Fenerbahce bid 10 million pounds ($16
million) for Serbian winger, the  Sun reported . It’s the first
firm offer for the player, the Sun added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  