-- J&J’s Gorsky Should Be Forced to Testify in Suit, U.S. Says
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-04-13T17:07:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/j-j-s-gorsky-should-be-forced-to-testify-in-suit-u-s-says-1-.html
Johnson & Johnson’s recently named
Chief Executive Officer  Alex Gorsky  should be ordered to give
sworn testimony in a lawsuit claiming the company paid kickbacks
to influence sales of the antipsychotic drug Risperdal to
nursing home patients, government lawyers said.  The U.S. sued J&J and two units in January 2010, claiming
they paid millions of dollars to induce  Omnicare Inc. (OCR)  to buy and
recommend J&J drugs including Risperdal. Justice Department
lawyers asked U.S. District Judge Richard Stearns in  Boston  to
compel Gorsky to appear for a deposition for the suit.  Gorsky was named in February to take over April 26 as J&J’s
CEO, succeeding Bill Weldon.  Gorsky, who had been vice president of sales and later
president of J&J’s Janssen unit, has “relevant knowledge”
concerning the division’s marketing to Omnicare, attorneys for
the U.S. said in court papers April 11. This includes
“knowledge about various allegedly illegal payments that J&J
made to induce Omnicare to purchase and recommend Risperdal,”
the U.S. said.  The company said it wouldn’t make Gorsky available for a
deposition, calling the request “nothing more than a fishing
expedition,” according to a March 26 letter sent to the  Justice
Department . J&J has argued that payments to Omnicare were
allowable rebates and not illegal kickbacks.  ‘No Reasonable Connection’  “Mr. Gorsky has no reasonable connection to the subject
matter of the government’s complaint and was not involved with
the facts underlying this case,” attorney Robert D. Keeling, of
 Sidley & Austin (1119L) , said in the letter. The request for Gorsky’s
testimony “unnecessarily targets -- and thus would unduly
harass -- J&J’s top executive.”  While with Janssen, Gorsky “was in a position to know why
J&J chose not to inform Omnicare (or members of Janssen’s own
sales staff) that, in January 1999, the  Food and Drug
Administration  had warned J&J that marketing Risperdal as safe
and effective in the elderly would be false and misleading,”
the U.S. said in the April 11 filing.  The company declined to comment because it is pending
litigation,  Bill Price , a J&J spokesman, said in an e-mail
today.  The U.S. claims that from 1999 to 2004, J&J used various
forms of kickbacks “including market share rebate payments
conditioned on Omnicare engaging in ‘active intervention’
programs for  J&J drugs ,” according to its complaint filed in
2010 in federal court in Boston. These payments “were
ostensibly for the purchase of Omnicare data, and various
‘grants’ and other payments, all of which J&J intended to induce
Omnicare to purchase and to recommend J&J drugs.”  Common Practices  J&J argued it engaged in common commercial practices such
as giving customers higher rebates based on the share of a
manufacturer’s  product  used and trying to get its drugs on
formularies, which are lists of medications that an insurer,
public health-care program or other payer will reimburse. J&J
didn’t violate the  False Claims Act  or Anti-Kickback Statute,
the company said in court papers.  The Justice Department joined complaints by whistle-blowers
Bernard Lisitza and David Kammerer, who sued under the False
Claims Act. Stearns dismissed claims by Kammerer last year.
Lisitza, a former Omnicare pharmacist, first sued in 2003.
Lisitza claims he was fired after complaining about his
employer’s switching patients’ prescriptions to J&J drugs.  $98 Million Settlement  Omnicare, based in Covington,  Kentucky , agreed in 2009 to
pay $98 million to settle civil allegations by the U.S.
government and various states that it took kickbacks from J&J.
Omnicare didn’t admit liability.  The whistle-blower lawsuit in Boston is one of several
against J&J and its Janssen unit over Risperdal marketing.  An Arkansas judge ordered J&J to pay $1.1 billion this week
after a jury found company’s officials misled doctors and
patients about the risks of the antipsychotic. J&J agreed to pay
$158 million in January to settle Texas officials’ claims that
the drugmaker fraudulently marketed the drug, ending a trial
over the allegations.  A jury in  Louisiana , weighing claims that the company
downplayed the drug’s risks, awarded that state $257.7 million
in 2010. A South Carolina judge last year ordered J&J to pay
$327 million over Risperdal sold in the state. Both judgments
are on appeal.  2004 Investigation  The U.S. government has been investigating Risperdal sales
practices since 2004, including allegations the company marketed
the drug for unapproved uses, J&J has said in Securities and
Exchange Commission  filings . The company said it has been in
negotiations with the U.S. to settle the investigation.  The Justice Department is demanding that J&J pay about $1.8
billion to resolve the civil claims by the U.S. and some states,
people familiar with the matter said last month.  J&J, based in  New Brunswick ,  New Jersey , disclosed in
August that it reached an agreement to settle a misdemeanor
criminal charge related to Risperdal marketing.  The case is U.S. ex re. Lisitza v.  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ,
07-10288, U.S. District Court, District of  Massachusetts 
(Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  