-- Japan Stocks Rise After Rocket Fails, Pare Gains on China GDP
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a
-- 2012-04-13T06:31:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/japan-stocks-rise-after-reports-n-korean-rocket-launch-failed.html
     April 13 (Bloomberg) --　Japanese  stocks  rose, with the
 Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average rising the most in two weeks, after a
North Korean rocket launch failed and Fast Retailing Co.
forecast record profit. Shares pared gains as slower growth in
China tempered optimism from a surge in new lending.  Fanuc Corp., which provides robotics for mainland factories,
pared gains to 2.8 percent after the China gross domestic
product report. Canon Inc., a camera maker that gets 27 percent
of its sales in the Americas, advanced 1.3 percent after the U.S.
Federal Reserve signaled  interest rates  will remain low.  Fast
Retailing Co. (9983) , Asia’s biggest clothier, jumped 8.6 percent.  “It’s better to have it fail than succeed,” said Masahiko
Ejiri, a senior fund manager in  Tokyo  at Mizuho Asset Management
Co., which oversees $39 billion, speaking of  North Korea ’s
unsuccessful rocket launch. “Even if they do build a nuclear
weapon, it doesn’t matter if they can’t make it fly.”  The Nikkei 225 rose 1.2 percent to 9,637.99 at the 3 p.m.
trading close in Tokyo, capping a 0.5 percent decline this week.
The broader Topix Index gained 0.7 percent to 815.48, with
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. contributing the most to the
gain after a unit of Japan’s biggest bank said it wants to
invest in a U.S. fund manager.  The Nikkei 225  gained  14 percent this year on signs of
strength in the  U.S. economy  and policy easing around the world,
including the Bank of Japan’s extension of an asset-purchase
program. Shares extended gains yesterday after central bank
Governor Masaaki Shirakawa pledged to continue to add monetary
stimulus.  N. Korean Launch  Shares rose after a North Korean rocket today went to
pieces shortly after liftoff, according to the nation’s news
agency. The launch was condemned internationally as a violation
of the nation’s agreement to end nuclear and long-range missile
tests in exchange for U.S. food aid.  Stocks pared gains after  China ’s gross domestic product
expanded 8.1 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier,
the slowest in almost three years, the National Bureau of
Statistics said in Beijing today. The median estimate was for
8.4 percent growth, according to a Bloomberg News survey of 41
economists.  “There were a lot of people looking to the report and
especially coming at the end of the week, you’re seeing some
investors sell to lock in profits,” said Hiroyuki Uekusa,
general manager of trading at Meiji Yasuda Asset Management Co.,
which manages about $37 billion. “Investors have been expecting
a slowdown scenario, and you’ve got a tug of war going between
expectations that there will be more monetary easing and concern
about falling share prices.”  The GDP figures outweighed the People’s Bank of China’s
statement yesterday that local-currency-denominated loans rose
to the most in a year in March. The number was the biggest
surprise above economist estimates in more than a year.  Fanuc Rises  Fanuc added 2.8 percent to 15,010 yen after rising as much
as 4.3 percent.  Komatsu Ltd. (6301) , a construction machinery maker
that relies on China for 23 percent of revenue, rose 1 percent
to 2,369 yen, paring an earlier gain of 2.5 percent.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPXL1)  lost 0.3 percent
today. The gauge rose 1.4 percent in  New York  yesterday, capping
its biggest two-day rally this year, after Federal Reserve Vice
Chairman  Janet Yellen  and New York Fed President William C. Dudley said borrowing costs are likely to remain low through
2014. Shares climbed even after a report yesterday that jobless
claims climbed last week.  Canon advanced 1.3 percent to 3,790 yen. Mazda Motor Corp.,
an automaker that gets 27 percent of its sales in  North America ,
gained 3 percent to 137 yen.  Fast Retailing Jumps  Fast Retailing rose the most on the Nikkei 225 after
raising its forecast for annual profit to a record and saying
sales outside  Japan  will drive growth. It projected net income
of 81.5 billion yen ($1 billion) in the year ending in August,
the company said yesterday. The stock soared 8.6 percent to
18,970 yen.  Mitsubishi UFJ advanced 3.6 percent to 402 yen on plans for
its trust arm to invest in fund managers based on the U.S. East
Coast. The unit can spend as much as 150 billion yen on
investments over the next three years, President Tatsuo
Wakabayashi said.  Leading declines on the Nikkei 225, Sony Corp. dropped 5.5
percent to 1,444 yen. The consumer electronics company said it
will try to win back customers from Apple Inc. by concentrating
on mobile devices while shifting away from its loss-making
television operations.  The Nikkei 225 Volatility Index fell 4.2 percent to 19.40,
indicating traders expect a swing of about 5.6 percent on the
benchmark gauge over the next 30 days. Trading volume was 13
percent above the 30-day average.  Shares on the Topix are  valued  at one times book value,
compared with 1.4 times for the MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index, 2.2
times for the S&P 500 and 1.4 times for the Stoxx Europe 600
Index. A number below one means that investors can buy companies
for less than the value of their assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 