-- JPMorgan, Wells Fargo Beat Estimates on Surge in Mortgage Fees
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i ,   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-04-13T15:29:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/jpmorgan-wells-fargo-beat-estimates-on-surge-in-mortgage-fees.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the two most profitable U.S. banks last year,
reported first-quarter earnings that topped analysts’ estimates
on a surge in mortgage fees.  JPMorgan’s earnings per share climbed to $1.31 from $1.28 a
year earlier, while Wells Fargo posted net income of 75 cents
per share, up from 67 cents. Those results beat  analysts’
estimates  of $1.17 and 73 cents per share, respectively.  Wells Fargo had its highest mortgage banking fees since
2009 and JPMorgan set a record for home-loan production income
amid gains from the government’s Home Affordable Refinance
Program and interest rates that fell to a record low. Both banks
benefited from the lowest net charge-offs since the financial
crisis as delinquencies fell.  “Mortgage has been pretty strong over the last quarter or
so,”  David George , a bank analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co.,
said in an interview on Bloomberg Radio’s  Bloomberg
Surveillance . “The mortgage business nationally here in the
U.S. has really consolidated and the players that have benefited
from that, JPMorgan and Wells Fargo among others, are really
going to benefit from that this quarter.”  Still, both banks faced higher charges related to mortgage
lawsuits and repurchase claims. JPMorgan set aside $2.5 billion
more toward its  litigation  costs during the first quarter mostly
for mortgage-related disputes. Wells Fargo set aside $430
million to cover mortgage repurchase claims, an increase over
the $404 million in the fourth quarter.  Fixed Income  Revenue at Wells Fargo climbed 6.4 percent to $21.6
billion, more than the $20.4 billion forecast by analysts.
JPMorgan’s revenue rose 6 percent to $26.7 billion from $25.2
billion during the first quarter of last year.  Wells Fargo’s costs also advanced, with non-interest
expenses climbing about 2 percent to $13 billion amid higher
compensation and legal spending.  The bank said quarterly costs will fall to $11.25 billion
by the end of the year, the high end of Chief Executive Officer
 John Stumpf ’s stated goal for reducing expenses to between
$10.75 billion and $11.25 billion. Costs will fall by as much as
$700 million in the second quarter, the company said.  Retail banking at JPMorgan, which includes home loans and
checking accounts, earned $1.75 billion, up from $533 million in
the fourth quarter and a loss of $399 million a year earlier.
The net interest margin, which measures the profit margin on
lending, declined to 2.61 percent from 2.89 percent a year
earlier.  Mortgage Business  Demand for loans rose as the  unemployment rate  fell to 8.2
percent at the end of March from 8.9 percent a year ago.
Mortgage originations likely climbed 5.3 percent to $318 billion
in the first quarter from the same quarter last year,
driven by strong refinance activity, according to the  Mortgage
Bankers Association .  Revenue at JPMorgan’s investment-banking unit didn’t match
last year’s near-record $8.23 billion, falling 11 percent to
$7.32 billion. It gained 68 percent from the fourth quarter as
financial markets in  Europe  stabilized. Revenue from fixed-
income and equity trading, almost doubled from the fourth
quarter and beat estimates from analysts including Atlantic
Equities’ Richard Staite.  “In the investment bank, you saw very strong flows in the
underlying customer businesses in both fixed-income and equity
markets,” Chief Financial Officer Doug Braunstein said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  