-- JPMorgan Earnings Beat Estimates on Mortgage Lending Gains
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2012-04-13T20:15:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/jpmorgan-earnings-beat-estimates-on-gains-from-mortgage-lending.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  reported a 3.1
percent drop in earnings, a smaller decline than analysts
estimated as mortgage revenue surged and trading almost doubled
from the fourth quarter.  First-quarter  net income  fell to $5.38 billion, or $1.31 a
share, from a record $5.56 billion, or $1.28, in the same period
a year earlier when there were more shares outstanding, the New
York-based company said today in a statement. Per-share profit
compared with an average estimate of $1.17 from 28 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  JPMorgan, led by Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , 56,
benefited from gains in mortgage lending as low  interest rates 
and federal incentive programs encouraged homeowners to
refinance. Mortgage fees and related revenue totaled $2 billion,
compared with negative revenue of $489 million a year earlier.
U.S. lenders made $318 billion in residential mortgages during
the first quarter, including $242 billion in refinanced loans,
according to the  Mortgage Bankers Association .  “This is going to be a strong quarter for anyone who has a
big mortgage lending or trading business,” said  Paul Miller , an
analyst at FBR Capital Markets, before results were released. He
said expanded federal programs to aid in refinancings have given
the market a boost. “It might be the best quarter in a long
time.”  Fourth Quarter  Profit improved over the fourth quarter, when JPMorgan, the
largest U.S. bank, earned $3.73 billion, or 90 cents a share.  “Credit continues to improve on the consumer side in both
mortgage and credit card,” Chief Financial Officer Doug Braunstein said on a conference call with journalists. Credit
card and mortgage delinquencies fell 36 percent and 25 percent
over last year, respectively, he said.  Still, Dimon warned in the statement that fallout from the
housing collapse isn’t over.  “We expect to see elevated levels of costs and losses
associated with mortgage-related issues for a while longer,” he
said.  JPMorgan, which acquired Washington Mutual and Bear Stearns
Cos. in 2008, set aside $2.5 billion more toward its litigation
costs during the first quarter mostly for mortgage-related
lawsuits. Dimon previously told shareholders that the company
would be making as much as $24 billion in annual profit if it
weren’t for all of its mortgage losses.  Share Performance  JPMorgan fell $1.63, or 3.6 percent, to $43.21 in  New York 
trading at 4:15 p.m. The shares  gained  35 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a 24 percent increase for the
 KBW Bank Index. (BKX)   Revenue rose 6 percent to $26.7 billion from $25.2 billion
during the first quarter of last year. Revenue at the
 investment-banking  unit didn’t match last year’s near-record
$8.23 billion, falling 11 percent to $7.32 billion. It gained 68
percent from the fourth quarter as financial markets in  Europe 
stabilized.  U.S. banks are in the middle of the industry’s worst two
years of revenue growth since the Great Depression, according to
Mike Mayo, an analyst with independent research firm CLSA in New
York.  Net income in investment banking declined 29 percent, to
$1.68 billion in the first quarter from $2.37 billion the year
before and $726 million in the fourth quarter.  Fixed Income  Fixed-income and equity-markets revenue dropped to $6
billion from $6.64 billion a year earlier and $3.27 billion in
the fourth quarter, the company said.  “You saw very strong flows in the underlying customer
businesses in both fixed-income and equity markets,” Braunstein
said on the call. JPMorgan oversees $150 billion in its wealth-
management unit and has $17.9 trillion of assets under custody
in treasury and securities services, he said. Both were record
highs, according to Braunstein.  Trading results, which got a lift in the third quarter as
the price of bank debt fell, didn’t get the same accounting
benefit in the fourth quarter or first three months of this
year. The bank booked a $907 million loss from its so-called
debt-valuation adjustment in the first quarter as the price of
its debt rose, compared with a $1.9 billion gain in the third
quarter.  Loss Reserves  JPMorgan had one-time items including DVA that, in total,
reduced earnings by about $500 million or 9 cents a share,
Braunstein said. The bank benefited from a $1.8 billion
reduction in mortgage and credit-card loan loss reserves and a
$1.1 billion gain from a  Washington Mutual  bankruptcy
settlement.  Retail banking, which includes home loans and checking
accounts, earned $1.75 billion, up from $533 million in the
fourth quarter and a loss of $399 million a year earlier. The
net interest margin, which measures the profit margin on
lending, declined to 2.61 percent from 2.89 percent a year
earlier.  Demand for loans rose as the  unemployment rate  fell to 8.2
percent at the end of March from 8.9 percent a year ago.  Fewer consumers fell behind on their credit-card payments
in the first quarter compared with the same period in 2011.
Loans at least 30 days overdue, a signal of future write-offs,
fell to 2.56 percent from 3.57 percent a year earlier. Write-
offs dropped to 4.4 percent from 6.97 percent the prior year and
increased from 4.29 percent in the previous quarter.  Wells Fargo  JPMorgan and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  are the first of the top six
U.S. banks to release results, and are projected by analysts to
post the highest earnings of the group. Wells Fargo, the fourth-
largest U.S. bank, reported a 13 percent increase in first-
quarter profit, reaching a record high of $4.25 billion and
beating analysts’ estimates.  “This rally can and will continue,” Miller said in an
April 10 research note. Miller favors JPMorgan, Wells Fargo and
other large mortgage banks over their smaller peers. Although
bank stocks have outperformed the broader Standard & Poor’s 500
Index in the past three months, the industry still has “room to
run,” Miller said.  Bank valuations remain low, with lenders in the KBW Index
trading at an average price-to-earnings  ratio  of about 11.5
yesterday, compared with an average of 14 for the  S&P 500 Index .  Trading and investment banking also picked up from
“dreadful” levels in the fourth quarter, Miller said.  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest behind JPMorgan and  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC) , may say it earned $3.12 billion on an adjusted
basis when it releases results on April 16, the survey of
analysts shows.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  may say it earned $1.85 billion
when it announces its results on April 17.  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America may report a profit of $1.73
billion on April 19 and Morgan Stanley may say it earned $259
million when it reports results that day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  