-- JPMorgan Said to Transform Treasury to Prop Trading
-- B y   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r ,   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r   a n d   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-04-13T15:23:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/jpmorgan-said-to-transform-treasury-to-prop-trading.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief
Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  has transformed the bank’s chief
investment office in the past five years, increasing the size
and risk of its speculative bets, according to five former
executives with direct knowledge of the changes.  Achilles Macris, hired in 2006 as the CIO’s top executive
in London, led an expansion into corporate and mortgage-debt
investments with a mandate to generate profits for the New York-
based bank, three of the former employees said. Dimon, 56,
closely supervised the shift from the CIO’s previous focus on
protecting JPMorgan from risks inherent in its banking business,
such as interest-rate and currency movements, they said.  Some of Macris’s bets are now so large that JPMorgan
probably can’t unwind them without losing money or roiling
financial markets, the former executives said, based on
knowledge gleaned from people inside the bank and dealers at
other firms. Bruno Iksil, a London-based trader in Macris’s
group, gained attention last week after moving markets with his
trades, drawing a comparison to Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s power in the government-bond market.  “What Bernanke is to the Treasury market, Iksil is to the
 derivatives market ,” Bonnie Baha, head of the global developed
credit group at DoubleLine Capital LP in  Los Angeles , where she
helps oversee $32 billion, said in a telephone interview.  Lines Blurred  Macris’s team amassed a portfolio of as much as $200
billion, booking a profit of $5 billion in 2010 alone -- equal
to more than a quarter of JPMorgan’s net income that year, one
former senior executive said.  The shifting role of the CIO group at JPMorgan, which
reported record firmwide profit for 2011, underscores how blurry
the line can be between “proprietary trading” and hedging, and
it highlights the challenge U.S. regulators face in curbing
speculative bets by federally backed lenders under the so-called
Volcker rule. JPMorgan, whose $2.27 trillion of assets at year-
end made it the biggest  U.S. bank , says the CIO manages the
firm’s risks, with trades like Iksil’s forming a part of that
effort.  “It’s a complete tempest in a teapot,” Dimon said on a
conference call with investors today after the bank announced
first-quarter earnings. “Every bank has a major portfolio and
in those portfolios you make investments that you think are
wise.”  ‘Voldemort’  The bank believes that its CIO activities comply with both
the letter and the spirit of the Volcker rule, Chief Financial
Officer Doug Braunstein, 51, said on the call. Regulators “see
everything and anything we do whenever they want,” Dimon said
on an earlier call with reporters today.  The CIO’s growing size and market power have made it an
increasingly important customer to Wall Street’s trading desks
and a market influence watched by  hedge funds  and other
investors, the former employees said. Iksil’s positions in
credit-derivatives have become so large that some market
participants dubbed him “Voldemort,” after the villain of the
Harry Potter series who’s so powerful he can’t be called by
name.  Yet it’s Macris, not Iksil, who was behind the strategy
that led to an unprecedented build-up of credit risk in
JPMorgan’s chief investment office, three former employees of
the bank said. While they expressed doubt Iksil can unwind his
positions without causing a dislocation in the markets he
trades, they also said JPMorgan probably can afford to hold the
assets until they mature and so won’t be forced to sell them.  Earnings Report  London-based Macris, 50, didn’t reply to a call seeking
comment. He, Iksil and JPMorgan haven’t been accused of any
wrongdoing.  JPMorgan, which reported today that it earned $5.38
billion, or $1.31 a share, in the first quarter, doesn’t break
out revenue or profit for its chief investment office. The bank
lumps the office into a “corporate” line item that also
includes treasury and the firm’s centrally managed divisions
such as audit, finance and human resources.  In 2011, corporate revenue of $3.3 billion included $1.6
billion of securities gains and produced $411 million of net
income, the bank said in an annual filing on Feb. 29. By
comparison, JPMorgan’s investment bank reported $26.3 billion in
revenue and $6.8 billion of net income in 2011.  Surge in Holdings  Since 2007, the value of securities held in JPMorgan’s
chief investment office and treasury has more than tripled to
surpass $350 billion from $76.5 billion, according to company
filings. The biggest jump was in 2009, when the company
disclosed that the CIO made “significant purchases” of
government-backed mortgage securities, asset-backed securities,
corporate securities, as well as  U.S. Treasury  and government-
agency securities, according to the filings.  “These investments were generally associated with the
chief investment office’s management of interest-rate risk and
investment of cash resulting from the excess funding the firm
continued to experience during 2009,” according to the
company’s 10-K report for 2009, filed in February of 2010.  The securities portfolio is about $360 billion today,
Braunstein said in the conference call with reporters. “That
generates earnings for us, and it also balances our interest-
rate risk,” he said.  Profit, not risk management, guided the purchases,
according to the former employees. One of the employees, who
previously held a senior executive position at the bank, said
Dimon even ordered some of the trades himself.  Management Changes  The transformation of the CIO has its origins in Dimon’s
arrival at JPMorgan with the purchase in July 2004 of Bank One
Corp., where he was CEO. Less than three months later, Dimon’s
long-time lieutenant  Michael Cavanagh  became chief financial
officer. He replaced Dina Dublon, a 23-year veteran of JPMorgan
and its predecessors.  At the time, JPMorgan also said Ina Drew, who ran global
treasury at JPMorgan prior to the acquisition, would report
directly to Dimon. Drew’s title changed in February 2005 to
“chief investment officer,” according to the 2005 year-end
filing.  Dimon pushed the unit to seek bigger profits by buying
higher-yielding assets, including structured credit, equities
and derivatives, and ramping up speculation, according to two
former employees. While Drew’s unit previously had small teams
of traders who took speculative “macro” positions in
currencies and interest-rate products, people who worked there
at the time say the focus shifted and traders were given
permission to put more capital at risk.  Missile in Flight  In  London , Macris expanded his team, adding expertise in
credit and fixed-income trading. A Greek citizen, Macris
previously was co-head of  capital markets  at Dresdner Kleinwort
Wasserstein before joining JPMorgan in 2006. In that role he
helped oversee a unit that made proprietary trades, or bets with
Dresdner’s own money, according to two people who worked with
him at the time.  One former colleague at Dresdner said he remembers visiting
Macris’s London apartment in 2004 for a gathering of fellow
colleagues from the firm. He said he was struck by a picture on
the wall in a room that contained more than six trading screens.
The picture, which he estimated was more than six-feet high and
six-feet wide, was of a missile in flight.  ‘Off-the-Wall Ideas’  Before joining Dresdner, Macris oversaw  currency trading  at
 Bankers Trust , now part of Deutsche Bank AG. Macris was an idea-
generating machine who was blunt and didn’t suffer fools, said
Duncan Hennes, who worked with him at Bankers Trust.  “He always had off-the-wall ideas, but in hindsight sort
of smart ideas,” Hennes said in a telephone interview. “He was
always thinking out of the box.”  David Sandelovsky, who reported to Macris at Bankers Trust
in the 1990s, remembers being impressed with his “great
knowledge” of art, wine, politics and history. He was an active
trader -- “a big hitter” -- as well as a manager, Sandelovsky
said.  “It wasn’t just a simple ‘Let’s go long the dollar against
the yen,’” Sandelovsky said. “He had serious ideas, and they
were macro, involving  interest rates , foreign exchange. He
didn’t think in simplistic terms.”  At JPMorgan, Macris hired Evan Kalimtgis, a former head of
credit portfolio strategy at Dresdner, to help with risk
management, according to one former employee.  ‘London Whale’  In 2007 Javier Martin-Artajo, who had been Dresdner’s head
of credit-derivatives trading, joined JPMorgan in London. George Polychronopoulos, who worked at hedge fund Endeavour Capital
LLP, also joined the London office in 2009.  Martin-Artajo, Polychronopoulos and Kalimtgis didn’t return
calls and e-mails seeking comment.  Iksil, whose credit-derivatives trades have earned him the
moniker “London Whale,” joined JPMorgan in 2005 and has held
his current role since 2007, according to his career-history
 record  with the U.K. Financial Services Authority. He worked at
the French investment bank Natixis from 1999 to 2003, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While Macris had a mandate to make money from the
beginning, he didn’t start putting on big bets until after the
credit crisis in 2008. Two of the former executives said the
following year he bought AAA-rated pieces of collateralized debt
obligations. As competitors dumped securities and prices
slumped, Macris’s group at JPMorgan emerged as the biggest buyer
in some markets, said one former executive at the bank who was
familiar with the trades at the times.  Trading Risk  In one example, a New York-based CIO trader named Jonathan Horowitz bought about $1.1 billion of AAA-rated portions of
collateralized loan obligations for about 80 cents on the dollar
in November and December 2008, people familiar with the matter
said at the time. Horowitz declined to comment.  The portfolio now includes about $70 billion of securities
linked to European mortgage debt, Dimon said today. Braunstein
said the “vast majority” of the overall portfolio is
government or government-backed debt, and about $175 billion is
mortgage-related.  “It’s a big portfolio,” Dimon said. “It’s sophisticated,
obviously complex, but at the end of the day it’s our job to
invest that portfolio intelligently over a long period of time
to earn income and offset other exposures we have.”  One public sign that the chief investment office does more
than hedge: Its trading risk is on par with that of JPMorgan’s
investment bank.  JPMorgan’s annual report for 2011 shows that the CIO stood
to lose as much as $57 million on most days of the year. That
compares with $58 million for the investment bank, which
includes Wall Street’s biggest stock- and bond-trading units.  ‘Extraordinary Platform’  Another sign: The relationship between the CIO and the
investment bank’s sales and trading desks is strained, two
former employees said. Employees in the CIO get a smaller share
of their trading profits than those in the investment bank,
giving Dimon a cost-management incentive to direct more trading
through the CIO, one former executive said.  Last year Drew, 55, hired Irene Tse, a former Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. partner, to oversee the CIO in  North America . Tse
more recently was a portfolio manager for  Stanley Druckenmiller ’s hedge fund Duquesne Capital Management.  JPMorgan “offers an extraordinary platform for me and the
entire CIO group to invest and manage risk,” Tse said in the
January 2011, press release announcing her appointment.  Drew and Tse didn’t reply to e-mails and phone calls
seeking comment.  ‘Very Comfortable’  JPMorgan, like rivals, has shut groups in the investment
bank that specialized in speculative bets with the company’s own
money, anticipating implementation of the Volcker rule. The ban,
part of the Dodd-Frank financial-reform law, will prohibit banks
backed by the federal government from engaging in so-called
proprietary trading. One former JPMorgan employee said the
number of risk-taking traders in the CIO has been reduced in
recent months.  “We have had for many years a structural credit book that
hedges against stress loss, meaning downturns in the credit
market,” Braunstein said today. “These positions that you’ve
all been writing about are just simply part of that structural
credit book, which, by the way, we’ve been reducing over time,
and we are very comfortable with the positions that we have.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Erik Schatzker  in  New York  at 
 eschatzker@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Alan Goldstein  at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 