-- Kansas Farmers May Increase Soybean Planting After Wheat Harvest
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2012-04-13T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/kansas-farmers-may-increase-soybean-planting-after-wheat-harvest.html
Wheat farmers in  Kansas  probably
will harvest the crop early enough this season to boost planting
of soybeans in the state, said Jamey Kohake, a trader at Paragon
Investments in  Silver Lake .  Kansas, the biggest grower of winter wheat used to make
bread, will probably collect grain as much as three weeks early
in late May or early June, Kohake said. As much as four times
the normal amount of rain has fallen and temperatures have been
warmer than usual, speeding plant growth.  “Everybody’s hoping to get the combines rolling and get
the wheat out so they can plant soybeans,” Kohake said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “It’s widespread. We’ve had a
lot of rain and we’re running about three weeks ahead.”  Before today, wheat futures on the Kansas City Board of
Trade dropped 6.3 percent this month as favorable weather boosts
crop prospects. The price plunged 7.6 percent this year as of
yesterday. Soybean futures on the Chicago Board of Trade  surged
14 percent in that time.  The crop in  Texas  is about three to five weeks ahead of
schedule, said  Mark Welch , an economist at Texas A&M
University’s Agrilife Center in  College Station . Plants in the
central and north part of the state are in “great shape” while
the western regions are dry, he said. The wheat is still a month
from being collected, he said.  “Our wheat crop is running ahead of normal with the warmer
than average spring,” Welch said in an e-mail yesterday.
“Where we have had moisture, that will delay maturity, which
offsets some of that early development. The drier it is, the
earlier the crop cuts out, even in a normal year temperature-
wise.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in  London  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  