-- Kenya’s Biggest Grain Handler Bans Company From Terminal
-- B y   G i t h u a   K i h a r a
-- 2012-04-13T10:04:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/kenya-s-biggest-grain-handler-bans-company-from-terminal.html
Grain Bulk Handlers Ltd. , which
runs  Kenya ’s only common-user terminal for cereals, said it
banned a company contracted by  Mombasa  Maize Millers Ltd., the
nation’s biggest processor of the grain, from the plant after
complaints it was obtaining information that cut competition.  Inspectorate Ltd., contracted by Mombasa Maize Millers to
monitor its shipping consignments, was prohibited after some
companies said it was getting details on other millers’
deliveries, hurting their competitiveness, Grain Bulk Handlers’
lawyer Shazeen Chatur said by phone from Mombasa yesterday.  Grain Bulk Handlers appointed  SGS SA (SGSN) ’s local unit to
compile a report, which is available to importers, listing cargo
on each vessel moving through the terminal. Mombasa Maize
Millers and Grain Bulk Handlers failed to find a solution on the
exclusivity of the information during arbitration overseen by
the  Kenya Maritime Authority , which regulates the industry.  “We are therefore at a loss to understand what other
reason there would be to consider such information exclusive to
your use and generation,” the authority’s director general,
Nancy Karigithu, said in an April 2 letter.  Millers in  East Africa ’s biggest economy have since 2008
been pushing for the licensing of a second bulk-grain terminal
after the eight-year monopoly granted Grain Bulk Handlers
expired. Grain Bulk Handlers has improved quayside productivity
and is able to discharge at a rate of 600 metric tons an hour.  The average daily discharge rate at the terminal from
specialized bulk carriers is 11,000 tons. On some occasions
daily performance rates are as high as 13,800 tons.  The official who answered the phone at Inspectorate’s
office in Mombasa declined to comment as he isn’t authorized to
speak on behalf of the company.  Mombasa Maize Millers Group Finance Officer Munir Thabit
declined comment when contacted by Bloomberg News by phone.  Annual demand for corn in Kenya is 3.24 million tons,
Agriculture Ministry Permanent Secretary Romano Kiome said Jan.
25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Githua Kihara in Mombasa via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  