-- Kenya Shilling Gains Most This Month Before Securities Payments
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2012-04-13T14:32:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/kenya-shilling-gains-most-this-month-before-securities-payments.html
Kenya ’s shilling strengthened the
most this month, as investors prepare to settle their payment
for government securities on Monday and the  central bank  removed
 money supply  from the market.  The currency of East Africa’s biggest economy appreciated
0.6 percent, the most on a closing basis since March 28, to
82.85 per dollar as of 4:42 p.m. in Nairobi.  “The shilling is gaining on increased dollar inflows as
investors prepare to settle their payment for the treasury bills
sold this week,” John Muli, a dealer at Nairobi based African
Banking Corp., said by phone today.  The Central Bank of Kenya sold a total of 7.2 billion
shillings ($87 million) of 91-days and 182-days treasury bills,
it said in an e-mailed statement on April 11. The bank changed
its previous auction system combining the sale of the treasury
bills as it shifts to a new operating system, with bids accepted
in the Wednesday auction to be settled on Mondays.  The bank accepted 6.5 billion shillings today in bids for
repurchase agreements at a weighted average rate of 15.527
percent, an official said. The bank has removed a total of 31.1
billion shillings from the market since April 5, after the
monetary policy committee indicated it would intervene to curb
volatility.  “The removal of liquidity by central bank through
repurchase agreement has also aided the shilling, with inter-
bank on the rising to 13.359 percent from yesterday’s 12.468
percent,”  NIC Bank Ltd. (NICB) , said in its daily market note.  “We will continue with the current tight monetary policy
until we are sure we are out of the woods,” Finance Minister
Njeru Githae told reporters in the capital on April 11.  Inflation Rate  The committee retained the central  bank rate  at 18 percent
to ensure that inflation continues to decline toward the
government target while maintaining exchange rate stability.  The  inflation rate  declined for a fourth month to 15.61
percent in March from 16.69 percent in the previous month, the
Kenya National Bureau of Statistics said last month.  Tanzania’s shilling strengthened for a second day, with the
currency of the second-biggest economy in  East Africa , climbing
as much as 0.3 percent to 1,578.54 per dollar, the highest on a
closing basis since Jan 12. It traded 0.1 percent stronger at
1,581 as of 4:02 p.m.  “There is liquidity tightness caused mainly by banks
buying shillings from their long dollar positions hence the
strengthening of the shilling,” said Emmanuel Mwasanguti, a
dealer with CRDB Bank Plc, said by phone today from  Dar es
Salaam , the commercial capital.  The Ugandan shilling gained the most in more than nine
months. The currency of the third-biggest economy in East Africa
appreciated as much as 2.7 percent to 2,452.50 per dollar, the
strongest gain on a closing basis since June 30, and was trading
1.7 percent stronger at 2,477.5 at 4:47 p.m.  “The shilling gained from dollar inflows to the non-
governmental sector and investors targeting  government
securities ,” Faisal Bukenya, the head of  currency trading  at
 Barclays Bank  of Uganda Ltd. Said by phone from Kampala. The
government plan to sell 120 billion shillings of three-, six-and
12-month Treasury bills next week, he said.  -- With assistance from David Malingha Doya in Dar es Salaam and
Fred Ojambo in Kampala. Editors: Peter Branton, Linda Shen  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  