-- Keppel Jumps on Preliminary $4.12 Billion Oil-Rig Order
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2012-04-13T09:59:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/keppel-jumps-on-preliminary-4-12-billion-oil-rig-order.html
Keppel Corp. (KEP) , the world’s biggest
builder of oil rigs, rose to the highest price in almost a year
in Singapore trading after winning a preliminary order worth
about $4.12 billion from Sete Brasil Participacoes SA.  The rig-maker advanced 2 percent to close at S$11.46, the
highest price since June. It was the third-biggest gainer on the
 Straits Times Index (STI) .  Sembcorp Marine Ltd. (SMM) , which also makes oil
rigs, climbed 2.7 percent.  Sete Brasil, part-owned by  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , signed a
letter of intent to buy five semi-submersible rigs, according to
a statement from Singapore-based Keppel yesterday. Petrobras is
adding rigs as it explores the largest offshore oilfield to be
discovered in the Americas since 1976.  “The next three months could be busy with other rig
operators placing orders to secure yard slots,” Xin Jin Ling
and Praveen K. Choudhary, analysts at Morgan Stanley, wrote in a
note today. “Keppel and Sembcorp shares will continue to do
well.”  A final agreement for the Sete Brasil rigs, which will be
assembled in  Brazil , may be signed within two months, Keppel
said. The Singapore company is building its second yard in the
South American country because of demand. Sembcorp Marine, the
world’s second-biggest rig maker, and Hyundai Heavy Industries
Co. have also invested in the country.  Sete Brasil said it February it will spend $27 billion by
2020 on drilling units. The company ordered an $809 million
semi-submersible rig from Keppel in December and a drill ship
from Sembcorp in February.  Demand for offshore units remains “hot” this year, Keppel
Chief Executive Officer Choo Chiau Beng said in January, after
the company won record orders totaling more than S$10 billion
($8 billion) last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  