-- Missile Failure Raises Questions on N. Korean Leader’s Grip
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-04-14T06:59:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/kim-missile-setback-raises-questions-of-n-korean-leader-s-grip.html
Kim Jong Un suffered a public
humiliation as  North Korea ’s third-generation leader unlike any
his father or grandfather faced after the totalitarian state
admitted a long-range rocket failed shortly after liftoff.  The launch was meant to mark the April 15 centennial of
grandfather and state founder  Kim Il Sung  and further cement the
younger Kim’s assumption of the family mantle, which the
government has been burnishing since he took over in December.
Its failure may raise questions of his hereditary hold on power
as he deals with the country’s impoverished economy and
international condemnation of its nuclear program.  “It’s going to be destructive in North Korea,” said Bruce
W. Bennett, a senior defense analyst at Rand Corp. who is
visiting  Seoul . “They’re going to look at this as the failure
of a young guy who hasn’t shown his mettle yet. We really don’t
know the strength of his grip yet.”  South Korea warned that chances are “very high” the
regime will conduct a nuclear test to seek redemption and
domestic support. The U.S. called off food assistance to North
Korea that was to be provided under a February deal, and the
 United Nations Security Council  “deplored” the launch,
according to U.S. Ambassador Susan Rice.  Asian stocks climbed yesterday, with the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index  rising  0.9 percent. The won rose 0.5 percent.  20 Pieces Fell  The missile reached an altitude of 151 kilometers (93
miles) before disintegrating into 20 pieces and falling into the
ocean 100 to 150 kilometers off the western coast, South Korean
Major General Shin Won Sik said in Seoul. North Korea’s state-
run Korean Central News Agency said scientists “are now looking
into the cause of the failure.”  The rare public admission contrasted with previous tests,
and came after the regime invited foreign journalists to watch
the launch. When North Korea fired a Taepodong-2 missile in
April 2009 that crashed into the  Pacific Ocean , it claimed it
had been a successful satellite launch.  “North Korea promised transparency throughout this
‘satellite’ launch to prove that it wasn’t a missile test,”
said Yang Moo Jin, a professor at University of North Korean
Studies in Seoul. “They had to keep their word because the
backlash would have been worse if they had tried to mask it as a
success.”  Kim Jong Un became North Korea’s leader after the Dec. 17
death of his father  Kim Jong Il . The third son of the late
dictator, he is thought to be less than 30 years old, went to
school in  Switzerland  and resembles his grandfather. He was made
a four-star general in September 2010 in the first official
notice he was being groomed to succeed his father.  Food Deal  He inherited a country of 24 million people suffering from
chronic malnutrition and dependent upon  China  for assistance.
North Korea has twice detonated atomic devices and refuses to
abandon its nuclear program.  North Korea agreed in February to suspend missile and
nuclear tests in exchange for 240,000 tons of U.S. food aid, a
deal that was broken by yesterday’s events.  Japan  and South
Korea joined the Obama administration in condemning the launch.  The U.S. won’t send the food aid and will take further
steps if the totalitarian state engages in additional
“provocative behavior,”  Ben Rhodes , a deputy national security
adviser at the White House, told reporters traveling yesterday
with President  Barack Obama  to  Florida  and a summit in  Latin
America .  Possible Nuclear Test  A South Korean intelligence report this week warned that
North Korea may soon detonate its third nuclear device. Recent
activity at the Punggye-ri nuclear testing site is consistent
with preparations for previous detonations in 2006 and 2009,
according to the report.  North Korea will allocate 15.8 percent of the total state
budgetary expenditure for national defense this year, KCNA said,
citing Finance Minister Choe Kwang Jin.  At the UN,  Security Council  members yesterday agreed that
the North Korean launch violated previous sanctions imposed by
the world organization, according to Rice, who spoke as
president this month of the 15-member body.  “The Security Council agreed to continue consultations on
an appropriate response in accordance to its responsibilities
given the urgency of the matter,” she said.  ‘Military First’  As part of the centennial celebrations, the country’s sole
political party named Kim its head on April 11, and the Supreme
People’s Assembly yesterday named him head of its National
Defense Commission, positions previously held by his father.  North Korea’s “military first” ideology holds that the
top priority is strengthening the 1.2 million-strong armed
forces. The country technically remains at war with  South Korea 
since their 1950-53 conflict ended without a peace treaty and
public statements regularly accuse the South, the U.S. and Japan
of having belligerent intent.  Senior military officers were also promoted this week to
the party’s Politburo, in a possible sign that the military
remains the dominant force in North Korean politics, according
to analysts including Park Young Ho. The missile’s crash could
undermine Kim’s position as the supreme wielder of military
power.  “Kim Jong Un’s political fate depends on how much he can
control the military and he needs to prove his military
capabilities,” said Park, senior fellow at the Korea Institute
for National Unification in Seoul. “Were this long-range rocket
launch successful, he would have cleared doubts about his
ability to lead and gain legitimacy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  