-- Knot Says ECB ‘Very Far’ From Resuming Bond-Purchase Program
-- B y   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-04-13T15:16:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/knot-says-ecb-very-far-from-resuming-bond-purchase-program-1-.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Klaas Knot said officials are “very far” from
reviving the government-bond purchase program.  “I think that we are very far from that situation,” Knot
said at an event in Amsterdam today. “The instrument hasn’t
been used for some time, but it’s still there. I hope we never
have to use it again.”  Economists expect the ECB to revive its controversial
Securities Markets Program as concerns about  Spain  reignite the
sovereign debt crisis, a Bloomberg News survey shows. ECB
Executive Board member Benoit Coeure suggested two days ago that
the bank could resume purchases and his Spanish colleague Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo told reporters yesterday that the program
“remains in place.”  “I don’t see a good reason” for buying  government bonds ,
Knot said. “I think there has been an overreaction to the
unfortunate communication surrounding Spain.”  Spain’s 10-year yield jumped to 5.99 percent earlier this
week, nearing levels that prompted  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal 
to seek bailouts. Italian three-year borrowing costs rose more
than 1 percentage point at an auction yesterday.  The SMP was mothballed a month ago after the ECB’s 1
trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) of three-year loans reversed a
sell-off in Italian and Spanish bonds that threatened to
splinter the 17-nation euro region.  ECB officials are playing “bad cop and good cop,” said
Thomas Costerg, an economist at Standard Charter Bank in  London .
“The true reality is perhaps in the middle. The door for
further ECB intervention remains open, but the bar is still high
for the ECB to pull the trigger. More market tension would be
needed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jurjen van de Pol in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  