-- Newark Mayor Booker Treated for Burns After Saving Neighbor
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g   a n d   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-04-13T16:20:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/newark-mayor-booker-treated-for-burns-after-saving-neighbor-1-.html
Newark (9982MF)  Mayor  Cory Booker  said he
“felt terror” as he shook off his bodyguards and rescued a
next-door neighbor from her bed last night in a burning, smoke-
filled apartment.  “I did not feel bravery,” Booker, the 42-year-old head of
 New Jersey ’s largest city, said at a news conference this
morning, his burned right thumb and forefinger bandaged. “I
felt terror.”  Booker said he arrived home from a television interview
about 9 p.m. to flames shooting from the second-floor kitchen
window of his neighbor’s house on Hawthorne Avenue. He ran in
with two members of his security detail, and one, Newark Police
Detective  Alex Rodriguez , tried to restrain him by his belt.  The two “had a bit of an altercation,” Booker, who is 
6-foot-3 and 250 pounds, told reporters at Hawthorne Avenue 
School, across the street from the fire scene and the tidy, 
three-story brick house where he lives. “We had some words.”  Booker said he ordered Rodriguez to let him go and he
obliged. The mayor continued through a flame-filled hallway,
dropped to the floor to avoid smoke and heard the woman call. He
followed her voice as he heard explosions and saw “sparks
flying everywhere.” When he reached the bedroom, it was
completely engulfed in flames and Booker said he could barely
breathe. He grabbed the woman and dragged her out of the house.  “We are both off to hospital,” he said to his more than 1
million followers on  Twitter  at 10:15 p.m. “I will b ok.”  Nap Ahead  The mayor said he was discharged from University Hospital
in  Newark  at 11:30 p.m., after treatment for smoke inhalation
and the burns to his hand, and back at his City Hall office this
morning.  “I’m going to go in and try to take a nap for an hour or
two,” he said at the news conference.  Booker, who is single, grew up in the northern New Jersey
suburb of  Harrington Park (12675MF)  and moved to Newark in 1996. A Rhodes
Scholar and Yale University-educated lawyer, Booker became mayor
in July 2006 and was re-elected in May 2010. He has made crime
reduction and economic development priorities of his
administration.  Social Media  Booker is a frequent Twitter user, having sent more than
14,000 messages about everything from responding to city
residents’ complaints about garbage to sending inspirational
quotes about being a leader or getting an education. The mayor
has more than 10 times as many followers as Governor  Chris Christie .  A 2010 study by Samepoint LLC, a social media monitoring
company, found Booker to be the second “most-social” mayor in
the U.S., behind his then-counterpart in  San Francisco , Gavin Newsom, who now is California lieutenant governor.  Dozens of Twitter subscribers reacted to Booker’s rescue
act, some with the hashtag #bookerfeats. A hashtag is a symbol
used to mark a topic on Twitter. “Obama may want to step aside
and let Cory Booker run. That dude is on fire. I mean really,”
@Jaredewy posted. “After the incident, Smoke was treated for
Cory Booker exposure,” @ZandarVTS wrote, while Sam Stein,
political editor for the  Huffington Post , said on Twitter that
Booker “just single handedly solved the Greek debt crisis.”  No Training  Fire Director Fateen Ziyad identified the victim as Zina
Hodge, 47. She was in stable condition at Saint Barnabas Medical
Center in Livingston, where she was being treated for smoke
inhalation and second-degree burns to her neck, back and
shoulders, Ziyad said.  The fire appeared to have begun on the stove, Booker said.
The mayor said he has had no training in firefighting or rescue.  “While the heroics of the mayor are unparalleled, we don’t
encourage people to run into burning buildings,” Ziyad said in
a telephone interview.  When he arrived at the scene, one resident had escaped
safely on her own, Booker said, and yelled that her daughter was
inside.  The fire department hadn’t arrived by the time Booker and
the victim made it out of the house, Booker said. Once back
outside, Booker “started thinking about all the things that
could have gone wrong,” he said by telephone.  Both were taken by ambulance to hospitals. Booker said his
treatment included a mist for his irritated lungs and a kit to
treat his second-degree burns at home.  ‘Street Fight’  Newark, about 13 miles (29 kilometers) west of  Manhattan ,
is a 24-square-mile city of about 277,000 people, a quarter of
whom lives in poverty, according to the U.S. Census Bureau.  From 1998 to 2006, Booker lived in Brook Towers in the
city’s Central Ward, a public-housing project known for
unreliable heat and hot water. He moved to the rented apartment
on Hawthorne, in the South Ward, when Brick Towers was slated to
be demolished.  “Street Fight,” an Oscar-nominated 2005 documentary,
chronicled Booker’s rise to office against Sharpe James, the
four-term incumbent who was convicted of fraud and conspiracy in
2008.  Newark has received national attention since Booker and
Christie appeared on the Oprah Winfrey television show in
September 2010 to announce a $100 million donation from  Facebook
Inc. (FB)  founder  Mark Zuckerberg  for improving Newark’s school
district, which has about 40,000 students.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  