-- No-Nudes Edict on Scanners May Mean No Contract for OSI
-- B y   C a r o l   W o l f
-- 2012-04-13T21:19:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/no-nudes-edict-on-scanners-may-mean-no-contract-for-osi-2-.html
Rapiscan’s airport body scanners
are so well-known that “there is not a dance anywhere in the
world that we will not be invited to,” Deepak Chopra, chief
executive officer of Rapiscan parent  OSI Systems Inc. (OSIS) , told
investors last month.  New scanner standards set by the U.S. Transportation
Security Administration may leave OSI $245 million short of a
full dance card.  The agency on April 4 closed the bidding for a contract for
as much as $245 million without approving Rapiscan’s technology
for devices that don’t show the “nude” images that have
outraged passengers and lawmakers. That may give rival  L-3
Communications Holdings Inc. (LLL) , whose upgrades showing generic
images have received the TSA’s blessing, a leg up on the award
and deprive OSI of a revenue boost equal to 35 percent of its
total sales last year.  “Most people associate Rapiscan with body scanners,” said
Josephine Millward, an analyst with The Benchmark Co. in
Arlington, Virginia. “This would be an opportunity lost.”  Rapiscan, the  biggest  unit of Hawthorne, California-based
OSI, and L-3 have been the only suppliers of full-body scanners
to the TSA since the U.S. began purchasing them in 2007.  The TSA says it has installed more than 640 full-body
scanners at about 165 U.S. airports. The machines cost as much
as $170,000 each, according to the agency.  Generic Images  While L-3 already had retrofitted all of its 245 existing
scanners to provide the less-revealing generic images, the new
contract is the first to require that technology.  TSA Administrator John Pistole “has committed to only
purchasing and deploying” such machines, Greg Soule, an agency
spokesman, said in an e-mail. He declined to say whether
Rapiscan submitted a bid for the contract by the April 4
deadline even though its system lacked TSA approval at the time.  The agency began testing Rapiscan software and equipment in
November 2010 and received an updated version for review and
testing in November, Soule said. He wouldn’t say when the
testing would be completed or whether Rapiscan would have a shot
at the contract should its technology be approved before a TSA
decision is made.  “They are in the last stages of getting approval,”
Benchmark’s Millward said. “I would expect it anytime now. I
don’t think this will affect them in the long run.” She rates
OSI shares a buy.  OSI rose 6 cents, or 0.1 percent, to $60.32 in Nasdaq
trading today. L-3 shares fell 54 cents, or 0.8 percent, to
$69.02 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Planned to Bid  An outside spokesman for OSI said on March 29 that the
Rapiscan equipment complies with TSA standards and that OSI
would bid for the contract.  “Rapiscan is bidding and they are bidding a compliant
system,” John Terrill, a spokesman with SpeakerBox
Communications LLC, of McLean,  Virginia , said in an e-mail. On
April 11, he declined to say whether OSI had submitted a bid.
Chopra and other OSI  executives  declined to be interviewed for
this story, Terrill said.  L-3 and Rapiscan use different technology to run their
full-body scanners. L-3 uses a millimeter wave radio frequency
to detect metallic and non-metallic items. Rapiscan uses a type
of X-ray.  Based on the  companies’  sizes, the new contract would mean
more to OSI than to L-3. OSI’s security equipment business,
which includes cargo, baggage and people screening, represented
about 45 percent of the company’s sales of $656.1 million in
2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Shares Rise  Revenue for OSI’s security business increased 17 percent to
$294.7 million last year. The U.S. government accounted for 17
percent of the company’s revenue, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  OSI shares have  increased  67 percent in the past year. They
are recommended by four of six analysts monitored by Bloomberg.  New York-based L-3 had 2011 sales of $15.2 billion. The
company doesn’t disclose revenue from its body-scanner business,
Jennifer Barton, a spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. The products
are included in the company’s electronic systems segment, L-3’s
biggest business with 37 percent of the company’s 2011 revenue,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  L-3 shares have  declined  10 percent in the past year.  OSI has a diverse range of products, from medical equipment
to cargo scanners for ports, said Millward, the Benchmark
analyst.  Broad Portfolio  “Their portfolio is broad enough that they can get along
without body scanner sales if that’s what it comes to,” she
said in an interview. “Body scanners are really a small part of
their business. They are winning a lot of contracts in other
areas.”  While OSI hasn’t sold any body scanners to the TSA for
three quarters, the company has won scanner and related services
contracts from  Mexico ’s tax and customs authority, the Puerto
Rico Ports Authority and the London Olympic games, CEO Chopra
told investors in a March 8 presentation.  Selling scanners to the TSA is one of the company’s
“growth opportunities,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carol Wolf in Washington at 
 cwolf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  