-- Non-Financial Data is Material: the Sustainability Paradox
-- B y   E r i c   R o s t o n
-- 2012-04-13T22:40:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/non-financial-data-is-material-the-sustainability-paradox.html
You might think any corporate data that helps investors weigh the value of a
company would be called "financial information," right? Not so. Welcome to the
world of "non-financial information." Five U.S. companies in 2011 expanded their financial disclosures --
information required of publicly traded companies -- to include data about
environmental performance, employee and community relations, and corporate
governance. Investors, nongovernmental organizations and even some governments
are increasingly seeking this information as it relates to business risks and
opportunities. Non-financial information, it turns out, can have a pretty big
impact on financial performance. So here's the paradox: If non-financial data, such as greenhouse gas
emissions per dollar of revenue, is included in a financial report for
investors, how can it still be called non-financial? Institutional investors and
companies aren't yet making the leap to calling greenhouse gas emissions,
percentage of female executives or other ESG metrics "financial." But they are
increasingly considering them to be material. Combining this so-called non-financial information with legally mandated
disclosures is called integrated reporting, a practice that emerged from the
widespread publication of corporate sustainability reports. It requires a deep
knowledge of what's strategically important to a company. A company might disclose data on any of dozens of metrics beyond conventional
balance-sheet accounting, whether they are "integrated" or released in a
separate format. Practitioners collectively refer sustainability reporting as
ESG, for the three major categories of data -- environmental, social and
corporate governance. The amount of non-financial information flying around the marketplace is
overwhelming and growing. The main delivery mechanism is the corporate
sustainability report, or the corporate responsibility report, or the
citizenship report, environment report, corporate social responsibility report
"or some title that fits," as Hank Boerner put it. Boerner is chairman of
 Governance & Accountability Institute, Inc . The group collects and analyzes
companies' disclosures, and is the U.S. data partner for the  Global Reporting
Initiative  (GRI), a widely used framework for producing sustainability
reports. Boerner's organization has completed its tally of U.S. sustainability reports
for 2011 -- the conventional, feel-good variety, not necessarily integrated with
balance sheets. The numbers themselves aren’t as significant as the jumbled
snapshot they offer to investors -- who expect standardized disclosures that are
generally comparable from company to company and industry to industry. Companies and nonprofits in the U.S. issued 242 reports last year, 228 of
which came from corporations or their U.S. subsidiaries. Thirty-one company
reports were assured by an independent auditor. GRI guidelines were followed by 186 companies, about 44 percent more than in
2010. The five U.S. companies who combined traditional and sustainability data into
one "integrated" report were Clorox, Northrup Grumman, SAS, Genentech and
Polymer Group Inc. Companies considering integrated reporting are determining what information
is "material" to their business, according to a recent  Deloitte report . The U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission said in 1999 that "a matter is 'material' if
there is a substantial likelihood that a reasonable person would consider it
important." This definition hasn't changed with the advent of sustainability
disclosure and integrated reporting. The rest of the world has. The Securities and Exchange Commission issued guidance to public companies in
early 2010, clarifying the circumstances in which public companies should
disclose information related to climate change. Apple is the most recent company
to discover that global supply chains and intense public interest make worker
conditions, even at far-flung factories, material. Expectations that the U.S. would enact a greenhouse gas law motivated
sustainability efforts until 2010, when legislation failed in the Senate. The
drive hasn't diminished, but its impetus has changed. Global companies
increasingly see sustainability strategy as a path to long-term profitability.
"There is a macro trend here that will not change, and it has nothing to do with
regulation," Kathy Nieland, U.S. Sustainable Business Solutions Leader at PwC,
said today in a telephone interview. "It has to do with population growth,
climate change and commodity and resource limitations." Visit  www.bloomberg.com/sustainability   for the
latest from Bloomberg News about energy, natural resources and global
business.