-- North Korea May Hold Nuclear Test, Rand’s Bennett Says
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r
-- 2012-04-15T03:31:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/north-korea-may-hold-nuclear-test-in-days-rand-s-bennett-says.html
(Corrects to say 10- to 20-kiloton range in fourth
paragraph of story published April 13.)  Bruce W. Bennett, a senior defense
analyst at Rand Corp. who is visiting Seoul, comments on North
Korea’s missile and nuclear tests after South Korea’s defense
ministry said the North’s rocket launch may have failed:  On rocket launch:  “This launch was decided on, probably a year ago by  Kim
Jong Il  before he died. He was probably very demanding of his
scientists. For this kind of failure to occur I assume some
people will pay with their lives.”  On nuclear test and Kim Jong Un:  “I would have to think the North Korea leadership is very
anxious to have something that eases this failure. Last time
they launched in April and had a nuclear test in May. I would
suspect they would try to do it more quickly. They may do it
within the next couple of weeks, perhaps within the next few
days.  “If he really wants to make an impact, he’s going to
detonate something closer to the Hiroshima bomb, in the 10- to
20-kiloton range.”  On the missile failure:  “I don’t think it will be particularly good for Kim Jong
Un. In the elite a fairly large number do have access to outside
information. They’re going to look at this as the failure of a
young guy who hasn’t shown his mettle yet.  “It’s going to be destructive in  North Korea . We really
don’t know the strength of his grip yet. We don’t really know
who is making the day-to-day decisions.”  On the international reaction:  “Most of the people recognize it is a violation of a
previous United Nations security resolution.  “The key question is going to be  China . China was prepared
to support them in 2009. In 2010 they hardly said a word.
China’s No. 1 imperative is to maintain stability in North Korea.
I suspect they won’t be outwardly supportive. I suppose they
will refuse to criticize.  “The real question is do we step back and limit our
response to military and economic action? Do we take political
action? Do we broadcast into North Korea to undercut the
regime?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net  