-- North Korea’s Rocket Launch Violates U.N. Resolution, Beck Says
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2012-04-13T04:35:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/north-korea-s-rocket-launch-violates-u-n-resolution-beck-says.html
Peter Beck , Korea representative of
the Asia Foundation in Seoul, comments after  North Korea  failed
to launch a rocket today:  On North Korea’s missile technology:  “I don’t think we can really know whether they have the
technology or not but they certainly haven’t perfected it. They
may have the technology. After all you would like to think they
wouldn’t go through this exercise if they absolutely thought
they would fail. Again, it doesn’t look like they achieved
anything more than what they did in 2009. All they did was prove
that they can do the same thing at two different locations.”  On possible halt of food aid from U.S.:  “Turning down 60,000 tons of food is peanuts. That’s not
even a quarter of the rice shortfall they face each year. The
regime has shown over the years that it really doesn’t care
whether people starve or not. It cares about the military, it
cares about the people in Pyongyang. For everyone else, it’s
nice if they eat and it’s ok if they don’t. That’s why I think
it’s a mistake for the Obama administration to punish the North
Korean people by cutting off food aid.”  On rocket launch:  “With the missile launch, they’re burning through money.
With a nuclear test, they’d be using precious material. Do all
the testing you want, that’s one less bomb you can make.  ‘‘They haven’t really changed the threat equation for the
region or for the world. This is bluster, they’re just trying to
show-off.  ‘‘They are violating the U.N. resolution and it does
violate the letter and spirit of Feb. 29. But in the end I think
it was naïve to think we could accomplish anything with peanuts.  ‘‘I don’t think it really will impress the average North
Korean because the average North Korean is worrying about
feeding their family. Whether it succeeded or failed, it doesn’t
put food on their table. The world was not the intended
audience, it was the North Koreans, it was the military, it was
the elites as a way of celebrating their centennial with an
elaborate, expensive firecracker.”  On impact of Kim Jong Un’s control:  “Given that the launch failed, it doesn’t do much for him.
But we really don’t know how much he needed it to do for him.
This most likely had been decided on ahead, decided on months
ago before his father even died. Yes, he is in control but this
was done to celebrate his grandfather.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brian Fowler at 
 bfowler4@bloomberg.net  