-- North Korea Launch Shows Obama Lacks Clout as Do Allies
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-04-13T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/north-korea-launch-shows-obama-lacks-cloud-as-do-allies.html
Hours after Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  warned  North Korea  about avoiding
“provocation,” Pyongyang launched a rocket and underscored the
recurring U.S. failure to contain the erratic Asian country.  The rocket carrying a satellite disintegrated over the
Yellow Sea April 12, scattering debris off the South Korean
coast and generating political fallout half a world away.
Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  said it showed the
“appeasement” and “incompetence” of President Barack Obama’s
attempts to engage diplomatically with North Korea.  For decades, both Democratic and Republican U.S.
administrations have levied financial sanctions, threatened to
withhold food aid and backed UN resolutions in unsuccessful
efforts to end North Korea’s pursuit of nuclear weapons and
missiles.  “It’s puzzling that the world’s greatest power is unable
to, and has been unable to, deal with this backward country,”
said Sung-Yoon Lee, a professor of Korean Studies at  Tufts
University  near  Boston .  Differences among countries negotiating with Pyongyang,
weakness within the regime and the perceived value of its
nuclear program mean the world has little leverage over North
Korea. Pyongyang has “constantly outperformed their bigger
neighbors” when it comes to the North’s talks with the U.S.,
 Russia , China,  Japan  and  South Korea , Lee said.  ‘Agreed Framework’  President  Bill Clinton  considered military action before
reaching an “agreed framework” in 1994 intended to freeze the
North’s nuclear program, according to the  Congressional Research
Service . That deal collapsed after the U.S. concluded in 2002
that Pyongyang was cheating, and the North conducted an
underground nuclear test in 2006.  Starting in December of that year, Republican President
 George W. Bush  pursued talks and relaxed financial sanctions,
released frozen North Korean funds, resumed food aid and then in
2008 took North Korea off a State Department’s list of state
sponsors of terrorism. The talks broke down in early 2009, and
North Korea tested a rocket and conducted an underground nuclear
explosion that drew increased UN sanctions.  Leadership of the deeply isolated country of 23 million is
built around the cult-like worship of the Kim family. On the
death of Kim Il Sung, grandfather of current leader Kim Jong Un,
North Korean media reported that streams ran backward and bears
were seen crying. The ruling clique has pursued its nuclear
weapons and its own survival at the cost of worsening the
poverty and hunger endured by most North Koreans.  “There’s a ruthless logic to what they do,” Lee said.  Security Council Reacts  The  United Nations Security Council  met April 13 to discuss
the North Korean rocket launch, “deplored” the action and
agreed it was in violation of UN sanctions, said U.S. Ambassador
Susan Rice, speaking as president this month of the 15-member
body. The council imposed sanctions against North Korea after
its first nuclear test in 2006 and followed up with more
sanctions after its second test in 2009, also banning it from
developing missile technology.  The UN’s April 13 response didn’t threaten further
sanctions. Doing so would be a step too far for  Security Council 
member  China , North Korea’s main ally and supporter, according
to George Lopez, a former member of the UN Panel of Experts for
enforcing sanctions on North Korea. The Chinese will solicit
Russia’s support in exchange for the backing Beijing gives
Moscow in council talks about  Syria , Lopez said.  North Korea Inc.  China’s overriding priority is preventing North Korea’s
collapse, said Banning Garrett, director of the Asia Program and
Strategic Foresight Initiative at the Atlantic Council, a
Washington policy group. China worries that such a development
would trigger a humanitarian crisis, send a surge of refugees
over its border and draw involvement by other nations, including
the U.S., he said.  China provides the bulk of North Korean aid and trades
through its state-owned enterprises, providing the regime with
economic life support even as other countries tighten sanctions.  North Korea’s structure also plays a role, according to
John Park, a research fellow at  Harvard University  in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts .  “The bottom line is that, when you negotiate with North
Korea, you’re not dealing with a country, you’re dealing with
North Korea Inc., a system of elites that operate the country
for their own operating budget and their own survival,” Park
said in a telephone interview.  Day-to-Day Survival  “There are major constraints to the North Korean system,”
said Park, who studies the state trading companies run by the
elite. “They’re not geared to long-term strategy; there’s no
mechanism for it. It’s really all about tactical, day-to-day
survival,”  Within the U.S. government, there has long been a debate
about what incentives might entice North Korea to give up its
nuclear weapons program. Lee and Garrett said they doubt
anything will work, given that the North sees nuclear weapons as
a source of leverage internationally.  “If they gave up their weapons program in return for huge
amounts of aid, what would they do after the aid dried up?”
said Lee.  The fall of Libyan dictator  Muammar Qaddafi  is likely to
discourage leaders in countries such as North Korea from
surrendering their chemical or nuclear weapons as Qaddafi did,
Garrett said.  “Not to be sympathetic to the North Koreans, but look what
happened to Qaddafi,” Garrett said in a telephone interview.  The rocket launch, which violated a Feb. 29 agreement with
the U.S., was promoted by North Korea as a tribute on the 100th
anniversary of  Kim Il Sung ’s birth.  Political Fallout  The Obama administration agreement was meant to halt North
Korea’s nuclear activities and open the way for sending food aid
and further talks.  “Instead of approaching Pyongyang from a position of
strength, President Obama sought to appease the regime with a
food-aid deal that proved to be as naïve as it was short-
lived,” Romney said in a statement.  Deputy National Security Adviser  Ben Rhodes  dismissed the
description of Obama’s attempt to engage with North Korea as a
failure. “Absolutely not,” Rhodes said.  Unlike Bush, Obama never delivered aid or other inducements
for North Korean cooperation, he told reporters. “What this
administration has done is broken the cycle of supporting
provocative actions by the North Koreans that we’ve seen in the
past.”  “Under the previous administration, for instance, there
was a substantial amount of assistance provided to North
Korea,” he said. “North Korea was removed from the terrorism
list, even as they continued to engage in provocative actions.”  Rhodes referred to the Bush administration’s decision to
start negotiating with Pyongyang after the North conducted a
rocket test on July 4, 2006, and an underground nuclear
explosion on Oct. 9, 2006.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  