-- North Korean Launch Sets Off U.S. Hunt for Parts, Clues
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r   a n d   J o h n   W a l c o t t
-- 2012-04-13T20:56:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/north-korean-launch-sets-off-u-s-hunt-for-parts-clues.html
The crash of a North Korean rocket
has touched off a top-secret scavenger hunt by U.S. and South
Korean intelligence agencies eager to recover parts for insights
into the communist nation’s military program, two U.S. officials
said.  Fragments fished out of the sea could provide priceless
clues to whether the rocket launched yesterday was engineered
and made entirely in  North Korea  -- or whether some of its
materials, designs, or components were designed or manufactured
in  China ,  Russia ,  Iran  or elsewhere, according to the officials,
who spoke about the confidential pursuit of spare parts on
condition of anonymity.  “This has the potential to give us very deep insights into
how far the North Korean ballistic-missile program has come,”
Theodore Postol, professor of science, technology and national
security policy at the  Massachusetts  Institute of Technology in
Cambridge, Massachusetts, said yesterday in an interview. “My
guess is it’s going to show it’s not come as far as many people
are claiming.”  Recovered pieces stand to reveal as much, if not more,
about the status of North Korea’s technological development than
studies of the test flight. U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta 
said during his confirmation hearing in June that the Asian
nation’s 1 million troops, ballistic-missile program and nuclear
enrichment activities pose a “growing and direct threat” to
the U.S.  Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  told reporters in Beijing
during a January 2011 visit that North Korea probably would
develop an intercontinental ballistic missile within the next
five years.  Cold-War Technology  While land- and ship-based radar can help determine the
trajectory, speed and height of a launch, recovery of parts may
help establish whether North Korea has moved much beyond Cold
War-era Soviet technology from the 1950s that it has relied on
primarily for its rockets.  “If you could get hold of it, it would be fascinating to
see, because we haven’t seen some of these parts up close,”
 David Wright , a physicist and specialist on missile and space
weapons at the Union of Concerned Scientists, a research group
in Cambridge, Massachusetts, said yesterday in an interview.  Based on the exterior of the second stage and the rocket’s
trajectory, scientists believe it stems from a Soviet-era
submarine-launched missile that has been reported for years to
have been transferred to North Korea, Wright said.  “You would love to see exactly what materials it was made
of,” Wright said. “If you can find traces of chemicals, what
does that tell you about the propellants that were used? If you
can look at the engine design, you can learn something about how
sophisticated of a design it was.”  Weather Satellite  Depending on what’s found and the condition it’s in, the
parts also could offer valuable insights into the rocket’s
control surfaces and systems, its guidance system and telemetry
and its potential range and payload, one of the officials said.  A pressing question is whether the rocket was carrying a
weather satellite, as North Korean officials said it was, the
second official said.  This rocket doesn’t seem likely to have carried a dummy
nuclear warhead, based on its trajectory, according to Peter
Crail, a nonproliferation analyst at the Arms Control
Association, a research group in  Washington .  Even before the North Korean launch, “I would imagine that
we had been putting assets in place to try and learn as much as
we can,” Crail said.  The U.S. might try to recover the parts using submersible
devices dropped from its ships to study the sea floor and pick
up debris. That might be a risky operation, based on the
information released by North American Aerospace Defense Command
after the launch, Wright said.  “The splashdown point looked pretty close to North Korea,
30 kilometers or so off the coast,” or 19 miles, Wright said.
“Even though it’s international waters, you can imagine them
sending ships out to that region and trying to keep other people
away.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott in Washington at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  