-- Novartis Gilenya Patient Has Infection After Taking Tysabri
-- B y   T r i s t a   K e l l e y
-- 2012-04-13T14:53:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/novartis-gilenya-patient-has-infection-after-taking-tysabri-2-.html
A patient taking  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s
Gilenya multiple sclerosis pill contracted a potentially deadly
 brain infection , adding to safety concerns about the Swiss
drugmaker’s most promising potential blockbuster.  The patient used Tysabri, an injection from  Biogen Idec
Inc. (BIIB)  and  Elan Corp. (ELN) , before using Gilenya, Novartis said in an
e-mailed statement today. Tysabri increases the risk of the
viral infection, known as progressive multifocal
leukoencephalopathy, that usually leads to death or severe
disability, according to a warning the drug’s label has carried
since 2006.  “The current assessment is that Tysabri is the drug most
likely associated with this case of PML,” Novartis said in the
statement. “However, a contribution of Gilenya to the evolution
of this case cannot be excluded.”  “At this stage, we cannot comment on any role Gilenya
might have had in this PML case,” an Elan spokeswoman said in
an e-mail from Dublin. A Biogen spokeswoman didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment.  The case is the first of the infection among the 36,000
people treated with Gilenya since it was first approved in 2010,
which is reassuring because regulators are looking into
unexplained deaths among Gilenya patients, according to analysts
at  Barclays Capital. (JNK)  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  and
the European Medicines Agency are investigating 11 deaths of
Gilenya patients.  European Review  The EMA said last month that it plans to announce the
outcome of its review by April 20.  I can’t say whether this will be considered in the frame of
the ongoing review as the committee has been quite focused on
the safety issue’’ raised earlier with the patient deaths, a
spokeswoman for the London-based agency said by phone.  Worldwide sales of the type of MS medicines that include
Gilenya and Tysabri, which suppress the immune system, exceeded
$11 billion in 2010. Analysts predict that Gilenya will become
Novartis’s third-best seller by 2015, reaching $2.06 billion in
sales that year, according to the average of  eight  estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  “This could dampen Gilenya’s growth, especially in the
frontline setting where the convenience of it being an oral
therapy might not outweigh the risks in an increasing number of
physician’s minds,”  Michael Yee , an analyst with  RBC Capital
Markets  in  San Francisco , wrote in a note to clients today.  Novartis Shares  Novartis  shares  fell 0.5 percent to 49.73 Swiss francs at
4:34 p.m. in Zurich. The stock has dropped 7.4 percent this
year.  “Clearly, this news comes at an inopportune time as the
product continues to be under scrutiny,” Michael Leuchten, a
London-based analyst for Barclays, wrote in a report today.
Still, “the fact that this is the first case so far is hence
encouraging and supports the Gilenya safety profile.”  Novartis said Dec. 12 that a U.S. patient died within 24
hours of starting treatment with Gilenya, triggering the
regulator reviews, which reported a further 10 deaths among
patients taking the medicine. Gilenya’s market share slipped in
January for the first time after 15 months of growth since the
drug’s introduction. Martin Voegtli, an analyst at Kepler
Capital Markets SA in Zurich, in February cut his 2016 sales
estimate by 12 percent to $1.96 billion.  Unexplained Deaths  Six of those 10 deaths were unexplained, three patients
died of heart attacks and one due to disruption of heart rhythm,
the EMA said Jan. 20. It isn’t clear whether the drug
contributed to the deaths that regulators are reviewing, and the
rate of fatalities is in line with the expected rate based on
the number of patients who had been treated, Novartis said in
January.  Regulators suspended Tysabri from the market in 2005 after
some patients developed PML, then allowed its return in 2006
with a risk-management program for people who didn’t benefit
from rival medicines. A revised Tysabri label now warns that
patients who have antibodies against the so-called JC virus are
more susceptible to developing PML. Biogen and Elan developed a
test able to detect the antibodies in patients, which has eased
safety concerns.  While the news might slow the uptake of Gilenya, it’s a
positive development for Tysabri because doctors may hesitate to
switch patients to Gilenya from Tysabri solely on safety
concerns, Yee said.  “This case seems to suggest switching to Gilenya does not
completely mitigate that risk,” he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Trista Kelley in London at 
 tkelley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  