-- Nuclear Halt in South Korea Seen Boosting Coal: Energy Markets
-- B y   S a n g i m   H a n   a n d   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2012-04-13T07:41:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/nuclear-halt-in-south-korea-seen-boosting-coal-energy-markets.html
South Korea  may expand record
imports of power-station coal as a nuclear-plant failure that
was hidden for a month stokes opposition to atomic energy a year
after Japan’s Fukushima disaster.  Korea Electric Power Corp. (KEP) , the nation’s electricity
monopoly, says it may boost coal purchases to replace nuclear
power generation if the Kori 1 reactor remains shut and the
government fails to extend the lifespan of a second reactor.
Kori 1 was closed for safety checks on March 13, five weeks
after a power failure caused the temperature of its core to
rise. The operating permit for Wolsong 1 expires in November.  Asia ’s fourth-biggest economy may increase its reliance on
coal just as China and  India  buy unprecedented amounts of the
fuel and prices rebound from a slump. While generating
electricity from coal costs almost twice as much as atomic
energy, it is cheaper than natural gas or oil, according to the
Korea Energy Economics Institute.  “Economically, coal is the best,” said Osamu Fujisawa, an
independent energy economist in  Tokyo  who estimates coal imports
may gain as much as 2.45 million metric tons a year if both
South Korean reactors are closed. “If you’re trying to increase
summer power generation, coal is the best in terms of cost.”  South Korea’s imports of thermal coal were a record 94.5
million tons last year, up from 87.8 million in 2010, according
to Simpson Spence & Young Ltd., a London-based shipbroker. The
nation was the world’s third-largest importer after China and
 Japan . The country will buy 103 million tons of seaborne thermal
coal this year, Bank of America Corp. said in an April 3 report
by its Merrill Lynch unit.  Price Outlook  Coal at Newcastle ,  Australia , with an energy value of 6,700
kilocalories per kilogram, a benchmark grade for Asia, gained
$1.15 to $105.55 a ton in the seven days ended April 6. Prices
dropped 14 percent the past two quarters, the steepest decline
since the six months ended March 2009, amid rising supplies and
a slowing global economy.  Indonesia , the world’s biggest exporter of thermal coal,
cut its reference price this month for sales of the fuel with a
heating value of 6,322 kilocalories per kilogram to $105.61 a
ton, the lowest level in 16 months.  Newcastle coal will average $109 a ton in the fourth
quarter and $110 next year as  China ’s production costs gain and
India faces domestic shortages, Merrill Lynch said in its
report. India will import a record 117.8 million tons of power-
station coal, up 7 percent from this year, and Chinese purchases
will rise 11 percent to an all-time high of 115.7 million tons,
its data show.  12-Minute Power Loss  Japan has boosted thermal generation after shutting 53 of
its 54 atomic plants since March 2011, when an earthquake and
tsunami knocked out cooling systems and caused the meltdown of
three reactor cores at  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) ’s Fukushima Dai-
Ichi plant. That was the world’s worst nuclear accident since
Chernobyl in 1986.  Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co., a unit of Korea Electric
that operates the Kori plant, announced its  power failure  on
March 12, a day after the first anniversary of Fukushima. A 12-
minute power loss occurred on Feb. 9 and sent the core
temperature to 58.3 degrees Celsius (137 degrees Fahrenheit)
from 36.9 degrees, according to the  Nuclear Safety and Security
Commission .  Korea Hydro didn’t report the blackout and deleted it from
its records before an outside inquiry discovered it, the
committee said last month. The government is investigating why
the incident wasn’t reported immediately, Energy Minister Hong
Suk Woo said March 14. The government will review South Korea’s
nuclear plants by July and has pledged to upgrade safety
systems, in particular at plants older than 20 years, the
Ministry of  Knowledge Economy  said in a statement today.  Political Protest  South Korea held parliamentary elections on April 11 and
has a presidential election in December. Local citizen groups
including the Kyungjoo Environment Movement Association say they
will campaign against Wolsong 1’s extension. Almost 80 percent
of respondents opposed extending the life of older reactors in a
February poll of 1,100 people by the Korean Federation for
Environmental Movement.  “We should shut down old reactors like an old, used car
should go to a junkyard,” Kyungjoo Environment Movement’s co-
chairman Kim Ik Joong said. “Extending a lifespan would only
boost the chance of things getting out of order.”  South Korea, which gets about a third of its electricity
from nuclear generation, started trial operations in 1977 and
currently has 21 reactors with seven more under construction.
The 587-megawatt Kori 1 unit and the 679-megawatt Wolsong 1
account for about 7 percent of the nation’s nuclear capacity.
Kori 1 won a 10-year license extension starting in 2008.  Coal Versus Gas  The country’s private power producers are already applying
to build more coal-fired capacity as it’s cheaper than gas,
according to Kim Joong Kyum, chief executive officer of  Korea
Electric (015760) , known as Kepco. The cost of generating electricity
from coal in South Korea is 67 won per kilowatt-hour, compared
with 142 won from liquefied natural gas and 224 won from oil,
based on 2011 prices, according to the Korea Energy Economics
Institute, a state-run  energy-policy  adviser.  “If talks with residents nearby don’t make progress, we
may have to speed up construction of new reactors or shift to
thermal plants,” Kim said in an April 2 interview. “We may
need to increase the use of coal and that would be a step in the
right direction.”  While coal may be cheaper than other thermal power sources,
it is still more expensive than nuclear. The cost of generating
electricity from atomic power in South Korea is 39 won per
kilowatt-hour, the institute’s data show.  Financial Pressure  The change will increase financial pressure on Kepco, which
lost $5.8 billion in the past four years as the government
capped power prices. Switching 1,000 megawatts of nuclear
capacity to thermal generation will cost the company an
additional 3.8 billion won ($3.3 million) a day, Kim said.  South Korea also needs to ensure utilities can meet demand.
The nation’s generating capacity has risen 60 percent in the
past 10 years, lagging behind power output that has doubled,
according to ministry data. The electricity reserve ratio, or
the difference between generating capacity and peak demand, was
the lowest in at least 12 years at 5.5 percent in 2011.
Utilities typically target 8 percent, according to Fujisawa.  “A shift away from nuclear as a result of this incident
would be a major turnaround from long-term energy policy,” said
 Michael Parker , an analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in
 Hong Kong . “Given current plans to increase nuclear capacity
and expand technology exports, the shutdown scenario seems
highly unlikely.”  ‘Big Waste’  South Korea’s nuclear industry says the emotional response
to the Kori 1 incident shouldn’t cloud the license extension
review around Wolsong 1 and the economics of power generation in
the country, which sells electricity to consumers for half the
price in Japan.  “It’s not proper to be carried away by people’s feelings
in approaching the issues,” said Chang Soon Heung, president of
the Korean Nuclear Society and a scientist at the Korea Advanced
Institute of Science and Technology. “It’ll be a big waste if
we shut it down if results show the reactors are safe.”  Still, the idling of Kori 1 and the lack of a deadline by
regulators for a decision on its resumption echoes the situation
in Japan, where reactors have failed to resume operations since
the earthquake or after scheduled maintenance amid public
concern over atomic safety.  Hiromitsu Ino, a professor emeritus at the University of
Tokyo, who acts as a government adviser on nuclear reactor
stress tests, in January called for all reactors over the age of
40 to be closed due to wear and tear and the inadequacies of
older plant designs to incorporate modern safety features.  World’s Oldest  The U.K, India, Japan,  Russia ,  Switzerland  and the U.S.
have the world’s oldest nuclear plants, with 31 operating
reactors aged 40 years or more, according to the London-based
 World Nuclear Association . No reactor has yet operated 50 years.  The U.S., which has the most nuclear reactors, originally
licensed its units to run 40 years. Today, 71 of the 104 U.S.
reactors have 60-year permits and 15 more applications are under
review, according to the country’s  Nuclear Regulatory Commission 
website.  Politics will decide the fate of Kori 1 and other older
reactors in South Korea, said Kim Wan Joo, a senior researcher
at the safety preparedness division of the Korea Institute of
Nuclear Safety.  “A new president can stop Kori 1,” Kim said. “But it
will result in the rising cost of electricity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sangim Han in Seoul at 
 sihan@bloomberg.net ;
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  