-- Obama Tasks Top Officials With Boosting Natural Gas Drilling
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-04-13T17:35:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/obama-tasks-top-officials-with-boosting-natural-gas-drilling-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  established
a group of top administration officials to coordinate “safe and
responsible” drilling for natural gas, as he moved to implement
a pledge to boost energy development in shale formations.  Obama in an executive order issued today said his
administration would encourage greater use of natural gas in
transportation, support research and set “sensible, cost-
effective” public-health and environmental standards.  “With appropriate safeguards, natural gas can provide a
cleaner source of energy than other fossil fuels,” Obama said
in the order. The interagency group on natural gas will be led
by Obama’s top domestic policy adviser, Cecilia Munoz, and
include officials from eight Cabinet agencies, including the
Defense, Interior and Energy.  The growth in natural gas production from shale in states
such as  Pennsylvania  has pushed down natural gas prices by more
than 60 percent over the past two years and led to a spurt in
employment and manufacturing.  At the same time, local residents and some environmental
groups complain that the process of hydraulic fracturing to free
that gas has led to contamination of water wells, contaminated
wastewater seeping into streams and rivers and increased local
air pollution.  Scientists from the  U.S. Geological Survey  will present
their findings at a conference next week linking the injection
of wastewater from fracking to a spurt in earthquakes.  New Rules  The Obama administration is also considering regulations on
air pollution at gas wells and water treatment requirements that
industry argues will impose an unacceptable burden on them. With
the announcement today, industry urged Obama to rethink those
new rules.  “There are already strong state regulatory systems in
place,”  Jack Gerard , the president of the Washington-based
 American Petroleum Institute , said in a statement. “Adding
potentially redundant federal regulation could stifle the kind
of investment that has led to lower energy prices for consumers,
more American jobs, and increased energy security.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  