-- Obama Adviser Plouffe Presses Romney on Release of Old Tax Files
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-04-14T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/obama-adviser-plouffe-presses-romney-on-release-of-old-tax-files.html
David Plouffe , a senior adviser to
President  Barack Obama , said Republican presidential candidate
 Mitt Romney  should release decades of back tax returns, framing
the issue of as one of “transparency and trust” that will help
define the choice for voters in November.  “If he’s got nothing to hide, then there’s nothing to
lose,” Plouffe said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital with  Al Hunt ” airing this weekend.  Obama campaign officials have challenged Romney to release
23 years of tax returns that they say the former private equity
executive shared for a background check when he was considered
for the Republican vice presidential nomination in 2008.  The returns are “just sitting in a box or vault or
something,” Plouffe said. “The American people want to have
trust in their leaders,” he said.  He also said Romney’s campaign is being backed with
independent television advertising funded by the oil and gas
industry and  Wall Street , suggesting they expect a Republican
president would “take care of their bidding for them.”  Plouffe made his remarks the same day Obama and Vice
President  Joe Biden  released their 2011 tax returns and as the
administration is promoting a proposal to impose a minimum tax
on those making $1 million a year or more. In keeping with the
theme, the White House and Obama’s political aides have been
emphasizing that some of the nation’s top earners pay a lower
tax rate than many middle-income Americans.  Targeting Romney  Obama’s advisers have begun directly engaging Romney as the
president’s opponent for the general election now that the
former Massachusetts governor’s path to the Republican
nomination was cleared with the departure of  Rick Santorum  from
the race.  In the campaign, Obama is promoting his initiatives that
would allow Bush-era tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans to
expire and impose the minimum tax for top earners. It’s called
the Buffett Rule, named for billionaire investor  Warren Buffett ,
who says he pays a lower  tax rate  than his secretary, largely
because of the preferential treatment given to  capital gains  and
dividends.  For 2010, Romney paid a 13.9 percent effective tax rate on
more than $21 million in income, largely from capital gains and
dividends, according to returns he released earlier this year.  2011 Returns  Romney released an estimated 2011 tax return earlier this
year showing an effective tax rate of 15.4 percent on $20.9
million in adjusted gross income. His final 2011 return will be
released when it is filed, spokeswoman Andrea Saul said in an e-
mail.  April 17 is the deadline for Americans to file federal
income tax returns. The White House released tax returns
yesterday showing Obama and his wife, Michelle, paid a 20.5
percent federal tax rate on $789,674 in adjusted gross income
for 2011. Obama, who is paid a $400,000 annual salary as
president, received most of the rest of his income from sales of
his books.  The Obamas have released tax returns dating back to 2000.  As the general election gets closer, Plouffe said he
expects wealthy Democratic contributors will step up with more
money for independent political action committees supporting the
Obama campaign to counter spending by Republican committees.  Super-PAC  Priorities USA Action, a so-called super-PAC supporting
Obama, has lagged behind similar groups supporting Republican
candidates. It reported raising $2 million in February and had
$2.8 million in the bank. Restore Our Future, the committee
backing Romney, took in $6.4 million in February and had $10.5
million to spend.  “Eventually I assume you’re going to see more progressives
understand the threat that this poses,” Plouffe said.  The loosening of legal restraints on election spending is
expanding the political power of a small circle of “a few
dozen” wealthy individuals, he said.  Financial companies make up four of the top 11 employers of
contributors to Restore Our Future, according to the Center for
Responsive Politics. Through the end of February, employees of
Bain Capital LLC, a private equity firm that Romney co-founded,
have donated $2 million, while employees of Tiger Management LLC
gave $1,250,000, employees of Elliott Associates gave $1 million
and employees of Paulson & Co. gave $1 million, according to the
center.  The American Energy Alliance this month began a $3.6
million  television advertising  campaign in eight battleground
states. The commercial claims that Obama’s energy policies have
prompted a doubling in the price at the pump. It doesn’t mention
Romney.  American Energy Alliance is a nonprofit group that doesn’t
disclose its donors. It is the advocacy arm of Institute for
Energy Research, which is largely funded by oil and other
energy-related companies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  