-- Obama Aide Plouffe Presses Romney on Tax Returns (Transcript)
-- B y
-- 2012-04-13T20:15:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/obama-aide-plouffe-presses-romney-on-tax-returns-transcript-.html
Senior White House adviser  David Plouffe  said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital with  Al Hunt ” airing this weekend that
Republican candidate Mitt Romney should release decades of tax
returns, calling it an issue of “transparency and trust” for
voters.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  JULIANA GOLDMAN, BLOOMBERG NEWS: Welcome. I’m Julianna Goldman, in for Al Hunt this week, and we begin the show with
senior White House adviser David Plouffe. David, thank you for
joining us here in the studio.  DAVID PLOUFFE: Thanks for having me.  GOLDMAN: So tax day is just around the corner. The
president and the vice president, they’ve released their 2011
tax returns, and you want  Mitt Romney  to release 23 years of his
tax returns, which is far more than what the president himself
has released. We already know that his effective tax rate is
lower than what most Americans are paying, so what do you think
he’s hiding?  PLOUFFE: Well, I think it’s important now -- when the
president ran, when President Bush ran -- it’s standard to
release many years of tax returns. We’ve released, I think, back
to 2000 now. So that’s 12 years. We know that Governor Romney
gave the McCain campaign, when he was considered as a vice
presidential candidate, 23 years. So they’re just sitting
somewhere in a box or a vault or something, and they ought to
release it, because obviously he’s released, you know, a year
when he was preparing to run for office. We ought to take a look
at the whole picture.  And why this is important is, the American people want more
fairness in the  tax code , they want to make sure that, to grow
the economy and reduce the deficit, we have a balanced approach.
The president’s committed to making sure that people who are
making, you know, $20 million, $50 million, $100 million, aren’t
paying less effective tax rate than the middle class.  You can trust this president to fight for a fairer tax
system. And the question is, is anything going to change if
Governor Romney is elected president? And I think the answer is
unqualifiedly no.  GOLDMAN: But his advisers have indicated they are not going
to release those returns, and even if he were to release those -
- his tax returns -- he’s bound by a confidentiality agreement
with Bain that legally prevents him from disclosing some of the
underlying assets that the campaign has raised questions about.
So no matter what, it’s still going to be a pretty opaque
picture. So what is it that you want him to disclose here?  PLOUFFE: I think that there’s a tradition. It’s
transparency and trust. If he’s got nothing to hide, then
there’s nothing to lose.  GOLDMAN: So you’re implying he has something to hide?  PLOUFFE: No, I don’t know why, since they’re prepared --
they gave them to the McCain campaign. I think it’s a simple
question of they’re sitting there, they’ve all prepared. You
know, I’m sure a lot of accountants spent a lot of time on these
tax returns. Just release them.  And what’s important is, listen, the American people want
to have trust in their leaders. These debates we’re having about
tax policy, about, you know, what, who can you really trust to
have the kind of tax and fiscal policy that’s going to help the
middle class and help our economy grow? These are important
questions.  So presidential candidates, nominees, and people elected
president have traditionally released a lot of tax returns. You
know,  Governor Romney ’s own father in  Michigan  set a standard of
releasing tax returns. This would be the right thing to do, and,
you know, we’ve released them, I think, back to 2000, so that’s
12 years. And, you know, I think when you’re running for
president, everything ought to be an open book.  GOLDMAN: All right. Well, another tax issue is the Buffett
rule. It is expected to fail in the Senate, and, you know, there
have been signs recently of a slowing job market, and the
president himself said that the Buffett rule, quote, “is not
all we have to do to close the deficit.”  So instead of pushing
this in Congress, why not press for legislation that would
create jobs, that would help consumers who have been hit by  gas
prices , or that would tackle the deficit like Simpson-Bowles?  PLOUFFE: Well, this is an important principle. We’re simply
never going to make the progress we need to, to reduce the
deficit and to do the kind of things like investing in education
and research in the short term without a principle of fairness.  You know, the stumbling block to solving this last year was
too many Republicans here in  Washington  were unwilling to ask
the wealthy to do anything at all. And so there’s a big
difference here. And so this is an important principle. Whether
it’s later this year, next year, at some point, the country’s
going to have to muscle up here and solve our long-term fiscal
challenges and do the smart things to help grow the economy.
You’re not going to do that unless you’re willing to ask the
very wealthy to do a little bit more in revenue.  Now, the president’s very focused on jobs in the short
term. We just signed a bill called the Jobs Act to help
entrepreneurs. We’re pushing to make sure that we pass the
transportation bill to rebuild our roads and bridges. We -
housing refinancing legislation would make an enormous
difference for people. These are all things the Congress can and
should do right now.  GOLDMAN: But critics are saying that it’s a political
charade, right, because Buffett - the Buffett rule is going to
go anywhere.  PLOUFFE: That’s what they said about the  payroll tax , too,
last year. Most Republicans lined up against it. We got that
done.  The point is, if we’re going to eventually - this may not
pass next week. Everyone’s going to be on record. And those that
vote against it are saying it’s OK for a nurse or a firefighter
or secretary to pay less tax - effective  tax rate  than people
making $10 million, $50 million, $100 million a year.  So this is a big principle. And to close the deficit in the
long term, this president’s already cut -- signed into law
almost $2 trillion in spending, Julianna. So to do the rest,
you’re going to have to do some savings from entitlement reform
done in a safe way, not the Ryan-Romney way, but the right way,
and then you’re also going to have to get some revenue through
closing loopholes. All we’re talking about here is ending some
of the special tax treatments for the very wealthy.  GOLDMAN: Well, you are also making the case that Governor
Romney would only be looking out for the wealthy, he would not
be looking out for the middle class, but economists have said
that under the president’s recovery, the richest 1 percent of
Americans have actually seen their incomes rise, when middle-
class American incomes have fallen. So doesn’t Governor Romney
have a point that the middle class haven’t done better under
this president?  PLOUFFE: Listen, we went through the worst recession this
country’s ever had, except for the Great Depression. And there
were reasons for it. There were policies in place. So those are
the same policies that Romney wants to bring back and that the
 Republican Congress  wants to bring back.  So the middle class has been through a lot here. This is a
president - whether it’s our  tax policy , investments in things
like education, investments in things like  student loans , trying
to rebuild this country so that our  construction industry  gets
back to work, this president -that’s how he views the economy.  The president views the economy through the lens of middle-
class families, people that are trying to get into the middle
class. And that’s going to be the central challenge, not just -
not of this election. This is the central challenge facing the
country, because eventually we’re going to recover fully from
the recession, but are we going to have the economy that works
for the middle class?  GOLDMAN: Well, I want to turn to fundraising and super
PACs, because that’s another big challenge for you guys. You
have been raising money for Priorities USA, the president’s
super PAC, and now you have Republican-leaning outside groups
that are spending millions of dollars on ads attacking this
president. And they are going unanswered by Priorities, because
they don’t have the money to run a campaign countering that. How
do you turn this around?  PLOUFFE: Well, you know, legally, obviously, we can’t be
involved with Priorities’ strategic decisions. But, listen, this
is -  GOLDMAN: But this is still an important opportunity to be
able to define Governor Romney as the campaign shifts into this
new phase.  PLOUFFE: Well, listen, we’ve built a campaign - we need to
be able to win this campaign, you know, with our volunteers,
with the resources we raise. Obviously, there’s going to be a
lot of money spent against us on the outside. This is no way for
our democracy to work.  You’ve got a few dozen people who are going to write $5
million, $10 million, $15 million, $50 million checks to try and
purchase the White House on behalf of Governor Romney. That is a
terrible, and that’s why we opposed the Citizens United
decision. But --  GOLDMAN: But why has fundraising been such a challenge for
the super PAC?  PLOUFFE: Well, listen, I think there’s a lot of folks who,
on the other side, whether it’s folks in the oil industry, some
people in the financial industry who say, you know, they’d like
Romney in the White House because he’s going to take care of
their bidding for them.  I think what you’ll see eventually, I assume you’re going
to see more progressives understand the threat that this poses,
which is, you know, we, at some point, even a presidential race,
getting outspent three-, four-, five-to-one is not sustainable.
We think we are going to built, first of all, our campaign is
premised on volunteers out there, registering voters, knocking
on doors. We also have to have money to communicate.  And we’re hopeful that, you know, the progressive community
understand that we can’t allow this presidential election to be
purchased by a few dozen folks who are looking to have policies
that, you know, whether it’s the oil industry. I mean, most of
the early ads have come from the oil industry. They’re opposed
to what we’re trying to do. Now, we’re all of the above.
Production’s up under this president. We also want to make sure
we focus on alternative sources of energy. For whatever reason,
you know, that’s being opposed by folks who think Romney is
really going to have an energy strategy of the past, not of the
future.  GOLDMAN: David Plouffe, thank you very much. That’s all we
have time for.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP. 