-- Obama Keeps Eye on U.S. Politics at Latin America Summit
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-04-13T14:53:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/obama-keeps-eye-on-u-s-politics-at-latin-america-summit.html
President  Barack Obama  leaves today
for a trip to a summit in Latin America that may have as much
resonance in domestic politics as in hemispheric economics.  Discussions at the meeting of North and South American
leaders in the resort city of Cartagena, Colombia, will cover
trade, economic growth and the battle against drug trafficking.
Yet the White House is mindful that about 16 percent of U.S.
residents trace their roots to the region, and that group may
play an outsized role in the November presidential election.  “The president desperately needs high voter turnout among
Hispanic Americans,” said Douglas Brinkley, a presidential
historian at  Rice University  in Houston. “It doesn’t hurt for
him to be in Colombia, and being seen with Latino leaders of the
hemisphere is not a bad photo-op in an election year.”  Obama’s campaign is gearing up for a close election fight
against Republican  Mitt Romney , putting a premium on gaining an
edge with any voting group. Obama is actively courting Hispanics
-- who gave him 67 percent of their votes in 2008 -- with a
Spanish-language website and by recruiting Spanish-speaking
volunteers and using Spanish-language voter registration forms
and phone banks.  “Key swing states that have large Hispanic populations
will be extremely attentive” to the trip, said  Susan MacManus ,
professor of political science at the  University of South
Florida  in Tampa. “Many feel that Latin and  South America  has
been ignored.”  Swing State  One of those states is Florida, with 29 of the 270
electoral votes needed to win the presidency and where Hispanics
make up 22.5 percent of the population. Before Obama meets with
the other 32 leaders at the Summit of the Americas he’s
scheduled to stop at the Port of Tampa.  The theme for that visit, as at the summit, will be
expanding U.S. exports and gaining greater access to Latin
markets for small businesses. About 40 percent of all exports
from Tampa go to  Latin America , and the port means 100,000 jobs
and generates almost $8 billion in annual economic impact,
according to its website.  Total U.S. exports in the Americas amount to $700 billion a
year out of $1.5 trillion worldwide, according to Commerce
Department figures. Among the summit participants,  Canada  is the
biggest U.S. trading partner, Mexico is the third largest and
 Brazil  ranks ninth.  Hemispheric Trade  “The U.S. economy benefits substantially from our trade in
the Americas, and over 40 percent of our exports currently go to
the Americas,”  Ben Rhodes , Obama’s deputy national security
adviser for strategic communications, told reporters in an April
11 briefing. “Those exports are growing faster than our trade
with the rest of the world.”  Latin America managed to largely escape the financial
crisis of 2008-2009.  Brazil (BZGDYOY%)  is the world’s sixth largest
economy, and the ranks of the middle class have swelled. The
 World Bank  classifies most countries in the region as middle-
income or higher.  As countries in the region have grown more prosperous, they
are less reliant on the U.S., the world’s biggest economy. That
growth also comes as the Obama administration has made a
deliberate pivot to focus more on  Asia .  Diminished Role  Obama is “quite comfortable with the diminished role of
the  United States  in the hemisphere” and that it’s “the
natural order of things,” said Andrew Selee, director of the
 Mexico  Institute at the Wilson Center. “The U.S. is going to
continue to be engaged but no longer has the domineering
authority it once did.”  Obama remains popular in Central and South America, though
promises to rebuild cooperation at the last summit, in 2009 in
Trinidad, may have fallen short, according to the  Inter-American
Dialogue , a Washington-based policy group that focuses on the
Western Hemisphere.  “The U.S. must regain its credibility in the region by
dealing seriously with an unfinished agenda of problems --
including immigration, drugs and Cuba -- that stands in the way
of a real partnership,” according to a policy report issued
yesterday.  The summit host, Colombian President  Juan Manuel Santos ,
has an agenda focusing on boosting advances in technology,
finalizing the free-trade deal between the U.S. and  Colombia ,
lessening  income inequality  and improving responses to natural
disasters, such as earthquakes.  Illicit Drugs  Bigger issues that aren’t on the official agenda are
legalization or decriminalization of illicit drugs and whether
Cuba should be allowed at the next summit.  Selee said that while he doesn’t expect “dramatic
outcomes” from the summit, one area where “sparks” might fly
would be the debate raging in Latin America over drugs.  The presidents of Colombia and Mexico have called for a
discussion about easing penalties for drug use. Obama’s aides
say the U.S. will resist such proposals.  “The president doesn’t support decriminalization,” Dan Restrepo, Obama’s senior director for Western Hemisphere
Affairs, told reporters.  There is friction between the U.S. and some summit leaders
over restrictive U.S. policies toward Cuba. Ecuador’s President
 Rafael Correa  is boycotting the summit because of Cuba’s
absence. The region’s sole dictatorship is the only nation
excluded from the gathering of heads of state from the Western
Hemisphere.  Brazilian President  Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff  told Obama during a
White House meeting April 9 that this should be the last such
regional meeting without Cuba in attendance.  In an e-mail interview with a group of Latin American
newspapers, Obama said his administration has done more than any
in decades to improve U.S. relations with Cuba and blamed the
communist regime for the nation’s exclusion from the summit.  “We’re looking for a new era in the relationship between
our two countries,” Obama said, according to a transcript of
the interview published in Spanish by Bogota’s El Tiempo
newspaper. “History shows that the longing for liberty and
human dignity can’t be ignored forever. No authoritarian regime
lasts forever. The day will arrive when the Cuban people will be
free to determine their own destiny.”  While Obama moved to ease travel restrictions earlier in
his presidency, the U.S. wants Cuba to release political
prisoners, increase political freedoms and adopt democratic
principles.  “Cuba authorities continue to deny the Cuban people their
universal rights and the president will continue to stand up for
those rights,” Restrepo said.  The policy is in keeping with those of past U.S. presidents
from both parties, said MacManus, the  Florida  professor. As with
other issues at the summit, Obama’s position on Cuba has
political implications.  “If Obama can keep some of the Cubans who voted for him
last time, appease them with that kind of stance, then that
could be the difference” in winning Florida, MacManus said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  