-- Oil Halts Two-Day Advance on China Growth Slowdown, Naimi Pledge
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-04-13T12:28:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/oil-drops-first-time-in-3-days-on-china-slowdown-naimi-pledge.html
Oil halted a two-day advance in New
York after  China ’s economy grew at the slowest pace in 11
quarters and  Saudi Arabia ’s oil minister said the kingdom is
determined to see lower prices.  Futures fell as much as 0.8 percent after government data
today showed China’s  gross domestic product  expanded 8.1 percent
from a year earlier in the first quarter, after an 8.9 percent
gain in the final three months of 2011. Industrial output rose
at a faster pace in March, while retail sales growth
accelerated. Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest crude exporter,
considers prices too high and is working toward damping them,
Minister Ali al-Naimi said today.  “The market is still range-trading, albeit in a slightly
lower range than previously,” said  Christopher Bellew , a senior
broker at Jefferies Bache Ltd., who predicts Brent crude will
remain supported at $119 a barrel. “Despite today’s GDP number,
expectations are still that the Chinese economy will have a soft
landing.”  Crude for May delivery fell as much as 78 cents to $102.86
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $103.31 at 1:25 p.m. London time. The
contract gained 0.9 percent yesterday to $103.64, the highest
close since April 3. Prices are little changed this week.  Brent oil for May settlement decreased 4 cents to $121.67 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Prices
are down 1.4 percent this week, heading for the fourth weekly
decline in five. The European benchmark contract’s  premium  to
New York-traded West Texas Intermediate was at $18.35, compared
with $18.07 yesterday. Front-month Brent futures expire today.
The more-actively traded June contract was 11 cents lower at
$121.41.  Technical Resistance  Oil in  New York  has technical resistance along its 50-day
moving average, around $104.22 a barrel today, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Futures traded above this indicator for
the first time this week yesterday before settling below it.
Sell orders tend to be clustered near chart-resistance levels.  Gross domestic product in China was forecast to expand 8.4
percent, according to the median estimate of 41 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey before the report from the National Bureau
of Statistics. Industrial production increased 11.9 percent in
March from a year earlier, today’s statistics bureau report
showed. That compared with an 11.6 percent median estimate in
the Bloomberg News survey and an 11.4 percent gain in January
and February combined.  Negative Surprise  “The GDP numbers were a negative surprise for growth-
related assets, particularly oil,”  Michael McCarthy , a chief
market strategist at CMC Markets Asia Pacific Pty in Sydney,
said by telephone today. “The fall so far is really a neutral
situation on the China numbers because of the conflicting
signals between the backward looking GDP and the forward looking
industrial production.”  China, the world’s second-biggest consumer of oil, cut
daily crude processing by 3 percent in March from a month
earlier as refineries started maintenance, according to data
released by the National Bureau of Statistics today.  Oil prices  rose yesterday after central bank officials in
the U.S. and  Japan  indicated they will use monetary policies to
stimulate their economies. Federal Reserve Vice Chairman Janet
Yellen and William C. Dudley, president of the  Federal Reserve
Bank of New York , endorsed the view that borrowing costs will
stay near zero through 2014. The  Bank of Japan (8301)  “will pursue
powerful easing” to overcome deflation, according to Governor
Masaaki Shirakawa.  Prolonged High Prices  Saudi Arabia is working toward its goal of seeing prices
drop by highlighting there’s no shortage of supply, al-Naimi
said in a statement in  Seoul  today. Stockpiles held by consumer
nations are rising and the kingdom is producing 10 million
barrels a day, he said. That’s close to the fastest rate in at
least 31 years, official data shows.  “We are seeing a prolonged period of high oil prices,”
al-Naimi said. “We are not happy about it.”  Fundamentally, the oil market remains balanced and there is
no lack of supply, he said.  Credit Suisse Group AG raised its forecast for  Brent crude 
in 2012 by 20 percent to $125 a barrel because of political
risks to oil supply and rising demand. Tougher U.S. and European
embargoes against  Iran  will cut supply and stoke tension in the
 Middle East , which may push Brent to $130 a barrel at the end of
the year, the bank said today in a report.  “Relatively strong oil demand growth will remain a
critical fundamentals driver,” Jan Stuart, a New York-based
analyst, said in the report. “Further stress on oil markets
derives, we think, from lasting and occasionally intensifying
political uncertainty affecting the supply side. In this
environment, oil prices should mostly trend higher.”  Talks With Iran  Oil may fall next week on speculation that negotiations
between Iran and world powers over the Persian Gulf nation’s
nuclear program will reduce tension that has bolstered prices, a
Bloomberg News survey showed. Sixteen of 33 analysts, or 49
percent, forecast prices will decline through April 20. Last
week, 57 percent of surveyed analysts expected a decline.  The five permanent members of the United Nations Security
Council -- Britain, China,  France ,  Russia  and the U.S. -- plus
 Germany , the so-called P5+1, will hold talks with Iran for the
first time in 15 months when they convene in  Turkey  on April 14.
The previous round of negotiations ended without agreement in
January 2011.  The participants may discuss postponing a planned European
oil embargo against the Persian Gulf nation in exchange for
Iranian promises to stop refining uranium, according to Peter
Jenkins, who hosted Iran negotiations as the former U.K.
ambassador to the  International Atomic Energy Agency  in Vienna.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  