-- Oil Caps Fifth Weekly Drop Since February
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u   a n d   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-04-13T19:36:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/oil-falls-first-time-in-three-days-on-china-saudi-comments.html
Crude capped its fifth weekly
decline since February as China’s economic growth slowed to the
least in almost three years and  Saudi Arabia ’s oil minister said
the kingdom is determined to see lower prices.  Futures dropped 0.8 percent after the  National Bureau of
Statistics  said  gross domestic product  in the world’s second-
biggest oil-consuming country expanded 8.1 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier. There’s no shortage of oil supply,
and Saudi Arabia is working toward damping prices, Oil Minister
Ali al-Naimi said today.  “The Chinese economy is by no means falling off a cliff
but it’s hard to dispute that it’s slowing down,” said Bill O’Grady, chief market strategist at Confluence Investment
Management in  St. Louis , which oversees $1.3 billion. “This is
going to have a definite impact on demand.”  Crude for May delivery fell 81 cents to settle at $102.83 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices were down 0.5
percent this week and have fallen 6.3 percent since settling at
$109.77 on Feb. 24, the highest level since May 3.  Brent oil for May settlement climbed 12 cents to expire at
$121.83 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The more actively traded June contract dropped 31
cents, or 0.3 percent, to $121.21.  Growth in China, which ranks behind only the U.S. in terms
of oil consumption, trailed forecasts by the most since the
third quarter of 2008, based on Bloomberg calculations. The
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 41 economists was for
an 8.4 percent first-quarter expansion. The economy grew 8.9
percent in the fourth quarter.  Chinese Consumption  China  cut daily crude processing by 3 percent in March from
a month earlier as refineries started maintenance, according to
data released by the National Bureau of Statistics today.  “The China GDP number had a thawing effect in the
market,” said Kyle Cooper, director of IAF Advisors, a Houston-
based consulting firm. “The Saudis want to see overall economic
growth, and $100 oil has a lot of incentives for alternative
energy. The Saudis don’t want to see alternatives.”  Saudi Arabia is working toward a price drop by highlighting
that there’s no shortage of supply, al-Naimi said in a statement
in Seoul today. New York futures topped $110 a barrel in
intraday trading March 1. Crude stockpiles held by consuming
nations are rising, and the kingdom is producing 10 million
barrels a day, he said.  “We are seeing a prolonged period of high  oil prices ,”
al-Naimi said. “We are not happy about it.”  Saudi Output  Saudi Arabia produced 9.71 million barrels a day of oil in
March, according to Bloomberg estimates.  “The Saudi comment is a definitely negative sign,” said
 Phil Flynn , an analyst at PFGBest in  Chicago . “The oil market
is higher than it should be based on global supply.”  Oil prices also declined as U.S. stocks moved lower and the
euro fell against the dollar for the first time in three days. A
weaker euro and stronger dollar reduces oil’s appeal as an
investment alternative.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index retreated as much as 1
percent and the euro dropped as much as 0.9 percent.  Oil may fall next week on speculation that negotiations
between  Iran  and world powers over the Persian Gulf nation’s
nuclear program will reduce tension that has bolstered prices, a
Bloomberg News survey showed.  Sixteen of 33 analysts, or 49 percent, forecast oil will
decline through April 20. Twelve respondents, or 36 percent,
predicted prices will rise and five estimated there will be
little change.  Iran Talks  The five permanent members of the United Nations Security
Council -- Britain, China,  France ,  Russia  and the U.S. -- plus
 Germany , the so-called P5+1, will hold talks with Iran for the
first time in 15 months tomorrow in Turkey. The previous round
of negotiations ended without agreement in January 2011.  “If there’s an agreement this weekend there will be a huge
impact on prices,” said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic
Energy & Economic Research in Winchester,  Massachusetts .  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 416,915
contracts as of 3:06 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 741,063
contracts yesterday, 14 percent above the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.58 million, a one-month high.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  