-- Top Earners Can Find Ways Around Buffett Rule
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-04-13T04:01:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/top-earners-can-find-ways-around-buffett-rule-minimum-tax-rate.html
The highest-earning U.S. households
have ways to escape President  Barack Obama ’s Buffett rule with
tax-planning techniques that would limit their liability and
undermine the proposal’s purpose.  Those affected taxpayers -- the fewer than 0.5 percent of
Americans with annual incomes exceeding $1 million and tax rates
of less than 30 percent -- could take advantage of tax-free
investments such as municipal bonds to escape the Buffett rule’s
bite. They also could time asset sales for maximum tax benefits,
engage in transactions that don’t result in taxable income and
make charitable contributions that yield deductions.  “Largely, the Buffett rule is going to be manageable,”
said  David Miller , a partner at Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft
LLP in  New York . “That is, with tax planning, people will be
able to avoid it.”  The proposal would deny high-income taxpayers many
deductions and other breaks they use to drive down their average
 tax rate  without closing out the tactics employed by the
wealthiest, most sophisticated taxpayers.  The Buffett rule, named for billionaire investor  Warren Buffett , would require that taxpayers with at least $2 million
in adjusted gross income pay a minimum rate of 30 percent and
would impose the increase on a sliding scale for those with
income between $1 million and $2 million.  Buffett Rule Calculator  Obama has been campaigning for the proposal in advance of
an April 16 procedural vote in the  U.S. Senate . He had
television interviews yesterday in four states with one
Republican senator. Also, the  White House website  posted a
Buffett rule calculator with which taxpayers can compare their
tax rate to millionaires’ rates.  Republicans are expected to block the Buffett rule bill,
which requires 60 votes to advance in the Senate. Democrats will
continue to campaign on the issue of tax fairness.  Preferential tax treatment for  capital gains  and dividends
is among the reasons why some high-income households have
relatively low effective tax rates, and one result of the
Buffett rule would be to raise effective tax rates on capital
income. Of the top 1 percent of households, 10 percent have
effective tax rates of 8.7 percent or less, including income,
payroll and corporate taxes, according to the 2012  Economic
Report of the President .  Generating Revenue  The Buffett rule measure, sponsored by Democratic Senator
Sheldon Whitehouse of  Rhode Island , would generate $47 billion
for the government over the next decade, according to the Joint
Committee on Taxation, whose estimates incorporate projected
behavioral responses by taxpayers. That estimate assumes that
income tax cuts expire as scheduled at the end of 2012; if those
cuts are extended, the bill would generate about $162 billion,
according to Whitehouse’s office.  Under current law, capital gains and dividends are taxed at
a top rate of 15 percent, compared with 35 percent for wages,
some business profits and other ordinary income. A 3.8 percent
tax on the unearned income of the highest earners takes effect
in 2013.  The U.S. taxes capital gains only when assets are sold,
letting taxpayers realize gains when they choose, and they
sometimes make those decisions based on tax rates. This feature
of the  tax code  has caused spikes in capital gains realizations
-- most notably after the 1986 overhaul of the tax code before
an increase in the capital gains rate took effect.  ‘Delay Selling’  “The tax on capital gains is only collected when you sell
your asset,” said Jon Bakija, an economics professor at
 Williams College  in  Massachusetts . “So one way to respond to
that would be delay selling your assets.”  One of the clearest examples of this phenomenon is Buffett,
whose estimated $44.8 billion fortune as of yesterday places him
third on the Bloomberg Billionaires Index of the world’s richest
people. The value of Buffett’s stock in  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) 
appreciates with gains in the company’s stock price. He doesn’t
pay taxes on the higher value of his assets unless he sells
them.  Taxpayers can avoid the capital gains tax entirely by
donating assets with low cost basis to charity. Another way to
escape the tax is to keep such assets until one dies, when they
would be passed onto heirs with a cost basis of their value at
death. For the very wealthiest, the estate tax would capture
some of those gains.  Investment in Capital  The higher taxes on capital gains and dividends would
reduce the after-tax return on investment in capital, causing
some taxpayers to make shifts in their portfolios. In some
cases, income being taxed at the individual level has already
been taxed at the corporate level at rates of up to 35 percent,
so the combined rate could exceed 50 percent.  “The evidence suggests that individuals, and particularly
high-income individuals, are responsive to tax rates,” said
Adam Looney, a senior fellow at the  Brookings Institution  in
Washington. He said those effects are more modest than some
analysts suggest.  By raising tax rates on capital income, the Buffett rule
would reduce investment, said  Douglas Holtz-Eakin , former
director of the  Congressional Budget Office  and a White House
economist during the George W. Bush administration.  “You affect all their investment decisions,” he said.
“Less overall, but also reallocated to make sure it doesn’t
show up in a year when you’re liable to be over a million bucks,
so you start getting into games.”  Timing Changes  Beyond timing changes, taxpayers can rearrange their
portfolios to earn income in forms that don’t show up as part of
adjusted gross income. For example, interest on municipal bonds
and employer-provided health insurance are both tax free, and
would become more attractive.  Taxpayers who want to avoid selling appreciated assets and
still enjoy their economic benefits can take out margin loans
against the value, Miller said.  Dividend taxes are tougher to avoid if the dividends flow
from companies that the taxpayer doesn’t control. Still, the
higher dividend tax rates on large shareholders might prompt
some companies to reduce payouts.  Also, the Buffett rule proposal allows deductions for
charitable contributions, so taxpayers could accelerate future
donations, especially if they think Congress might repeal the
Buffett rule or otherwise lower taxes in the future.  Miller said taxpayers anticipating capital gains could move
to a low-tax state. Because the Buffett rule would effectively
deny the benefits of the state and local tax deduction, it would
create a greater-than-usual incentive to move to a state such as
 Florida  with no income tax.  “I promise you, the one thing this is is a full employment
law for tax lawyers,” Holtz-Eakin said. “They will love it.”  The bill is S. 2230.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  