-- Mormon Smith’s Many Wives, Presidential Run: Lewis Lapham
-- B y   L e w i s   L a p h a m
-- 2012-04-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/mormon-smith-s-many-wives-presidential-run-lewis-lapham.html
It is not clear how many wives
Mormon founder  Joseph Smith  married under divine commandment --
some estimates put the number at 30.  Dissenters from the practice -- including top Mormons
William Law, his wife Jane and brother Wilson -- were
excommunicated.  (To listen to the podcast, click  here .)  The three saw Smith as a fallen prophet and organized a new
church that practiced “true Mormonism.” On June 7, 1844, Law
published a newspaper, the Nauvoo Expositor, revealing the
“abominations and whoredoms” practiced by Smith and others.  At the time, Smith was mayor of Nauvoo and president of the
church. Earlier that year, Smith had also formally declared his
candidacy for President of the U.S.  Arguing that the Expositor posed a threat to the public
peace, he ordered the destruction of the printing press and any
remaining copies of the paper.  In the ensuing fracas, Smith was jailed until he could be
tried for treason against  Illinois  for declaring martial law in
Nauvoo. A mob with painted faces broke in and Smith was shot
dead attempting to escape.  I spoke with Matthew Bowman, author of “The Mormon People:
The Making of an American Faith,” on the following topics:  1. God Speaks  2. Golden Plates  3. A New Jerusalem  4. Polygamy  5. A Mormon as U.S. President  To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Lewis Lapham is the founder of  Lapham’s Quarterly  and the
former editor of Harper’s magazine. He hosts “The World in
Time” interview series for Bloomberg News.)  Today’s Muse highlights include: an  interview  with Aifric
Campbell and a NYC  weekend  preview.  To contact the writer on the story:
 Lewis Lapham  in New York at 
 lhl@laphamsquarterly.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 