-- House Republicans Push Repeal of Dodd-Frank Resolution Power
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2012-04-13T19:10:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/house-republicans-draft-repeal-of-dodd-frank-resolution-powers.html
A U.S. House panel will consider a
repeal of the power established by the Dodd-Frank Act to seize
and wind-down systemically risky financial firms, a move that
will draw opposition from House and Senate Democrats who have
made a point of protecting the law enacted in 2010.  Representative  Spencer Bachus , chairman of the Financial
Services Committee, has included the repeal in a measure aimed
at finding nearly $30 billion in spending cuts. Committees in
the Republican-controlled House are drawing up plans to cut $261
billion from the federal budget in an effort to avoid automatic
reductions to the  Department of Defense  starting in January.  “Congress has an obligation to make tough choices that cut
spending, reduce the deficit and do so in a way that does not
imperil our nation’s defenses,” Bachus, an Alabama Republican,
said today in a statement.  Republicans opposed the resolution authority during the
2009 and 2010 debate over the financial regulatory overhaul that
would become Dodd-Frank. The law granted the authority to the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., which could draw from the  U.S.
Treasury  to resolve a firm and repay the taxpayer funds through
an assessment on large financial firms.  Budget-Cutting Effort  The repeal is part of a broader measure the panel is
required to produce that would cut at least $29.8 billion.
Bachus is proposing to cut a total of $35.1 billion over 10
years through four actions: repeal of the resolution authority;
ending the Obama administration’s Home Affordable Modification
Program; a reauthorization with structural changes to the the
National Flood Insurance Program; and placing the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau under the congressional
appropriations process.  The panel is scheduled to consider the measure April 18. If
approved by the Republican-led committee it will then go to  the
Budget Committee for use in the appropriations process, which is
expected to begin soon.  Senate Democrats  have already said they
will not advance the House budget adopted in March and the
lawmakers, who control the chamber, have refused to make
substantive changes to Dodd-Frank.  House lawmakers have already passed bills to abolish HAMP
and extend the flood insurance program, none of which have had
enough support in the Democratic-controlled Senate to reach the
floor for consideration.  House Democrats  almost unanimously
opposed changes last year to the structure and oversight of the
consumer bureau, which is funded through requests to the  Federal
Reserve .  2008 Crisis  The resolution authority was drafted by lawmakers in the
wake of the 2008 financial crisis that led to the failure of
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  and a series of ad-hoc bank
mergers and bailouts. The authority, signed into law by
President  Barack Obama  in July 2010, was at the core of Dodd-
Frank’s provisions to prevent future bailouts by giving the FDIC
power to liquidate even the biggest insolvent firms.  “Developing a credible capacity to place a systemically
important financial institution into an orderly resolution
process is essential to subjecting these companies to meaningful
market discipline,” Martin J. Gruenberg, the FDIC’s acting
chairman, said in a March 13 speech. The agency last year
finalized the implementation of the liquidation authority.  House Republicans , who were in the minority when the law
was debated, proposed an  alternative  to resolution authority
that would have expanded the bankruptcy process in order to
better accommodate the failure of a multinational, multi-
subsidiary financial firm.  Ending Provision  Now Bachus will look to cut down the provision, which
allows the FDIC to borrow from the U.S. Treasury in order to
maintain stability and then impose a fee on the largest
financial firms to recoup any taxpayer dollars used in the
process. The  Congressional Budget Office  estimated a repeal of
the resolution authority would cut $22 billion over the next 10
years, the committee said.  The CBO said in 2010 that “most of” the direct spending
to come from Dodd-Frank over the next decade would be the result
of the implementation and operation of the resolution powers.
The CBO said in total, Dodd-Frank would not add to the deficit,
due to several revenue-raising measures included in the law that
would offset any costs.  The Financial Services panel was required to identify the
cuts by the Republican budget passed by the chamber last month,
which instructed six House committees to find $261 billion in
savings over the next decade. Those savings would be used in
place of the automatic cuts that begin in January, which include
a reduction of $55 billion from the Pentagon’s budget.  Automatic Cuts  The debt-limit agreement signed last year capped
discretionary spending over the next decade with the threat of
about $1 trillion in automatic cuts if a budget-cutting
supercommittee didn’t agree on a deficit-reduction plan.  The automatic cuts were designed to force lawmakers to make
difficult compromises to cut entitlements and raise taxes in
order to avoid the defense reductions. The panel failed, and
since then Republican lawmakers have criticized the defense cuts
as being too deep and threatening to national security
interests.  Ending the adminstration’s housing program, the CBO
estimates, would save $2.8 billion over 10 years. The long-term
extension of the flood insurance program would result in an
increase of $4.9 billion in net income over the next decade, the
CBO estimates. The budget office previously said that the
increased income may be needed to maintain the solvency of the
program.  Flood Insurance Extensions  House lawmakers approved the changes to the flood insurance
program by a wide margin last year. The Senate has yet to
finalize its proposal on the program, which has been operating
under short-term extensions over the past three years.  Placing the consumer bureau under the congressional
appropriations process would save $5.4 billion over the course
of 10 years, according to the CBO estimate. That money would
come from the Fed, which would transfer excess funds to the
Treasury. The panel will recommend appropriators give the bureau
$200 million to fund its operations.  Democrats pushed for the the consumer bureau to be
independent from the appropriations process out of concern that
Republicans would cut its budget if they control both chambers
of Congress.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  