-- Scottish Widows Investment to Swap Stock Pickers for Quant Funds
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2012-04-13T16:14:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/lloyds-banking-to-cut-23-employees-at-scottish-widows-division.html
Scottish Widows Investment
Partnership , the fund business of  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , will
start relying more on computers to pick stocks and less on fund
managers, leading to 27 job losses.  The 54 billion-pound ($86 billion) equities business will
shed 70 percent of its 38 “active” money managers who select
investments, Scottish Widows Investment Partnership said in a
statement today. The Edinburgh-based company will focus on
global equities for clients willing to take more risk and
investments for those wanting low risk.  Chief Executive Officer Dean Buckley has been trying to
boost stock-fund performance for more than two years. Between
the start of 2010 and March 2011, he hired more than 20 fund
managers. The  Scottish Widows U.K. Growth Fund (TSBUKGA) , its 1.4 billion-
pound flagship equity fund, has ranked in the bottom 11 percent
of competing funds over one, two, three and five years,
according to data compiled by  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)   “It makes sense to rationalize and get rid of what you are
not good at,” Ben Yearsley, a financial adviser at Bristol-
based Hargreaves Lansdown Plc, said by telephone after the
announcement. “There will be less divergence in returns and you
might as well be less bad and less volatile.”  Scottish Widows Investment currently manages 27 billion
pounds, or 50 percent, of its stocks using quantitative
investment strategies for customers seeking to reduce risk. The
other half is managed actively by fund managers.  ‘Clear Divide’  Once the transition is complete, Scottish Widows expects to
oversee about 77 percent of its equity assets in quantitative
strategies, 13 percent in funds tracking indexes and the
remaining 10 percent will be actively managed, spokeswoman
Kahrene Lawrie said by telephone.  “The asset management industry is seeing an increasingly
clear divide between those equity investors seeking high-alpha
solutions and those preferring a lower-risk strategy through a
quantitative-based approach,” the firm said in its statement.  So-called quant funds seek to outperform competitors that
track indexes by using computers and math to find the best
investments. The quant business, which is headed by Sean Phayre,
will hire another four people, taking his team to 17 and
translating into a 23 net reduction in jobs overall.  Personnel  Will Low, who was hired last year from BlackRock Inc., the
world’s largest money manager, will remain as head of the global
equities desk, the statement said. Andrew November stays in his
post as director of equities.  There will be continuing roles for James Clunie, who runs
an absolute-return fund, Gregor Macdonald and Andrew Paisley,
who manage investments in small companies, and Vicky Watson, who
oversees real estate securities, Lawrie said.  The position of head of U.K. equities, held by Peter Cockburn, will be scrapped as part of the changes, said Lawrie
who declined to comment further. Cockburn wasn’t reachable for
comment at his office in Edinburgh.  The London-based  Times newspaper  reported earlier today
that Cockburn may be among the money managers to leave. It
didn’t say from where it got the information.  The fund unit, which oversees 143 billion pounds, is
trailing U.K. competitors in attracting money from external
clients. In 2010 and 2011 it had net outflows, while the money-
management units at Standard Life Plc, Prudential Plc and Aviva
Plc all had net inflows in both years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  