-- Pakistan Holds Key Rate as Surging Prices Add to Growth Threats
-- B y   F a r h a n   S h a r i f
-- 2012-04-13T19:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/pakistan-holds-rate-as-surging-prices-add-to-growth-threats-1-.html
Pakistan left  interest rates 
unchanged for a third meeting as it struggles to damp inflation
exceeding 10 percent and counter growth threats from sliding
exports, a  budget deficit  and security risks.  The  State Bank  of Pakistan kept the discount rate at 12
percent,  Syed Wasimuddin , a central bank spokesman, said in
Karachi yesterday. All 11 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
predicted the outcome.  Pakistan joins Indonesia and  South Korea  in holding
borrowing costs this week after a climb in crude  oil prices  and
a 7.3 percent slide in the rupee against the dollar in the past
year fanned inflation. The nation is grappling with blackouts
from its worst energy crisis, diminished aid flows, political
tensions before general elections due by February and an
insurgency on the Afghan border.  “There was no room to ease policy,” Khalid Iqbal Siddiqui, head of research at United Bank Ltd. in Karachi, said
before the decision. “Inflation demands a cautious approach.
But, with an election in sight,  government spending  is likely to
go up and there may be less scope for tough decisions like
raising rates.”  Pakistan’s rupee weakened 0.3 percent to 91.04 per dollar
as of 5 p.m. local time yesterday. The currency has been under
pressure on concern dwindling international aid and a trade
deficit will sap foreign-exchange reserves.  “The primary consideration remains bringing inflation
further down as it has persistently remained in double digits in
the last few years,” the central bank said in yesterday’s
 monetary policy  statement. It raised the minimum rate of return
required to be paid on  bank deposits  to 6 percent from 5 percent
to help promote savings.  Budget Deficit  Inflation held at close to a six-month high in March, with
consumer prices rising 10.8 percent from a year earlier. That’s
the fastest pace after  Vietnam  in a basket of 17 Asia-Pacific
economies tracked by Bloomberg.  Pakistan  should broaden the tax base, curb some subsidies
and curtail central bank financing of a budget gap that may rise
to 7 percent of gross domestic product in the fiscal year ending
June, the  International Monetary Fund  said Feb. 6. Monetary
policy is “too accommodative,” it said.  The $200 billion economy cut rates by 2 percentage points
last year to spur growth after floods sapped expansion, before
pausing reductions in November. Governor Yaseen Anwar said March
2 the central bank aims to bolster lending to small companies,
farming and housing in the next three years.  Debt Crisis  Europe’s debt crisis has also dimmed the outlook by
crimping  exports , with overseas shipments tumbling 18.8 percent
in March from a year earlier, the most since 2009.  An $11.3 billion IMF loan to Pakistan expired in September,
with disbursements suspended in May 2010 after the country
failed to meet conditions attached to it.  The U.S., the country’s largest export market and aid
provider, held back $800 million in military assistance in July
out of $2 billion pledged for this fiscal year because of
disputes over how to combat terrorism.  Relations between the countries have been further strained
by a November border attack by American helicopters that killed
24 Pakistani soldiers.  Floods in August forced more than 1 million people from
their homes, while militant attacks have killed at least 35,000
people since 2006, according to government estimates.  Pakistan’s economy grew 2.4 percent in the fiscal year
through June 2011, one of the smallest expansions in a decade.
The IMF estimates it will expand 3.4 percent in 2011-2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Farhan Sharif in Karachi at 
 fsharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  