-- Pakistan Parliament Approves Guidelines to Change U.S. Ties
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2012-04-13T16:06:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/pakistan-parliament-approves-guidelines-to-reset-ties-with-u-s-.html
Pakistan ’s parliament unanimously
approved proposals to reset ties with the U.S., demanding an end
to drone strikes inside the country while agreeing to the
reopening of NATO supply routes to neighboring  Afghanistan .  Pakistan is seeking to redraw a relationship strained by a
November border attack by American helicopters that killed 24
Pakistani soldiers. In protest, Pakistan closed frontier
crossings used to support U.S.-led troops in Afghanistan and
suspended military and intelligence cooperation.  Washington  needs Pakistan’s help as President Barack Obama
withdraws troops from Afghanistan and bids to negotiate peace
terms with Taliban guerrillas and other militant groups after a
decade-long conflict. The terms approved yesterday are not
binding on Pakistan’s government.  “This resolution seeks to satisfy almost every political
group in the country,” said  Rashid Khan , a professor of
international relations at the University of Sargodha in central
Pakistan. “The key challenge is how much the U.S. is willing to
give up in negotiations with Gilani’s government and whether the
U.S. will shift its strategy in which drone attacks are so
crucial.”  Drone aircraft missions run by the Central Intelligence
Agency are unpopular in Pakistan, where they are reported to
kill civilians as well as the militants they target. Pilotless
aircraft are used to collect intelligence and kill members of
the Taliban, al-Qaeda and allied groups in their sanctuaries in
Pakistan’s northwestern tribal areas and are central to the U.S.
strategy to curb militancy in the region.  ‘Tough Year’  Pentagon spokesman  George Little  said the U.S. military
looked forward to engaging in discussions once Pakistan provides
a formal proposal.  “This is a key relationship,” Little told reporters
today. He said the U.S. wants relations with Pakistan to
“settle down” after what “has been a tough year for any
number of reasons.”  The U.S. ordered 117 missile strikes by Predator drone
aircraft in 2010, a figure that fell to 64 last year, according
to the  Long War Journal , a website that monitors the conflict.
So far in 2012, there have been 11 such attacks, the website
said, basing its data on reports in the Pakistani and foreign
media. In 2011, the strikes are reported to have killed 405
Islamic militants and 30 civilians, the website figures show.  Trucking Supplies  After three weeks of debate, ruling and opposition
lawmakers in Pakistan’s parliament backed guidelines that permit
the U.S.-led coalition fighting the Afghan Taliban to truck non-
lethal supplies through Pakistan, state-run Pakistan Television
reported.  “Today’s resolution will enrich your respect and
dignity,” Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani  said in an address
to parliament late yesterday. “I assure you that we will get
these enforced in letter and spirit.”  The resolution stated that Pakistan must not allow private
security contractors to operate on its soil and that other
nations wouldn’t be permitted to establish bases in the country,
meeting opposition party demands. The resolution added that “no
overt or covert operations” can be carried out in Pakistan by
foreign security forces.  The country’s main political parties, including religious
groups that oppose Pakistan’s alliance with the U.S., said that
Pakistan should seek an unconditional apology from the U.S. for
the November airstrike.  ‘Balanced Approach’  While the U.S. military said in a December report that poor
coordination by both armies was to blame for the border clash,
Pakistan’s army on Jan. 23 underscored its stance that U.S.
forces bear the entire responsibility.  Obama said last month as he met Gilani in  Seoul  that he’s
confident the U.S. and Pakistan will be able to build a
relationship that both recognizes Pakistani sovereignty and
addresses American security concerns. Obama said he seeks to
achieve “the kind of balanced approach” that respects
Pakistan’s territorial integrity while allowing the U.S. to
“battle terrorists who have targeted us in the past.”  The then-chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff,
Admiral Mike Mullen, last year accused Pakistan’s main military
intelligence agency of directly supporting Islamic militant
factions such as the Haqqani network that attack American forces
in Afghanistan.  Relations between the U.S. and Pakistan’s military and
civilian leaderships have had a troubled year, with tensions
reaching a high point after the American commando raid that
killed  Osama bin Laden  in Abbottabad, about 50 kilometers (30
miles) north of Islamabad, Pakistan’s capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  