-- Penguin Count Doubles as Satellite Spies on Birds, Poop Stains
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-04-14T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/penguin-count-doubles-as-satellite-spies-on-birds-poop-stains.html
Scientists almost doubled estimated
emperor penguin numbers by using satellite imagery powerful
enough to distinguish the birds from their poop stains and
shadows on the ice, findings that may help track  climate change .  It was the first comprehensive survey of a species from
space, said Peter Fretwell, lead author of a paper published
yesterday in the  PLoS One  journal. Researchers led by the
British Antarctic Survey found about 238,000 breeding pairs in
the southern continent, according to the report. That compares
with a two-decade old estimate of 135,000 to 175,000 pairs.  “Current research suggests that emperor penguin colonies
will be seriously affected by climate change,” Phil Trathan, a
co-author of the paper, said in an e-mailed statement. “An
accurate continent-wide census that can be easily repeated on a
regular basis will help us monitor more accurately the impacts
of future change on this iconic species.”  The Antarctic Peninsula, the portion of the continent that
points toward  South America , has warmed by 2.5 degrees Celsius
(4.5 degrees Fahrenheit) in the past 50 years, according to the
 European Space Agency . That led to the collapse of the Larsen B
ice shelf and loss of part of the Wilkins Ice shelf, threatening
the habitat of penguins, which tend to live in coastal areas.  “While current research leads us to expect important
declines in the number of emperor penguins over the next
century, the effects of warming around Antarctica are regional
and uneven,” Trathan said. “In the future we anticipate that
the more southerly colonies should remain, making these
important sites for further research and protection.”  Very High Resolution  The team used Very High Resolution satellite images able to
distinguish between birds, shadows on the snow and ice and their
excrement, or guano, to measure populations of 46 colonies. They
estimated that when non-breeding birds are included from outside
colonies, the adult penguin population was about 595,000 birds.  The British Antarctic Survey had previously used “reddish
brown patches” of guano left on the ice by penguins to identify
the colonies, it said in a statement on its  website  from 2009.  Researchers included scientists from the  University of
Minnesota  in  Minneapolis , the Scripps Institution of
Oceanography at the  University of California  in  San Diego , and
the Australian Antarctic Division in Hobart, Tasmania.  The emperor penguin, which only inhabits Antarctica, is of
“least concern” on the Red List of endangered species compiled
by the International Union for Conservation of Nature.  March of The Penguins, a French nature documentary about
the species by Luc Jacquet and narrated by actor  Morgan Freeman ,
won an Academy Award in 2005 for best documentary feature.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 