-- Philippines Says South China Sea Standoff Talks Moving Forward
-- B y   J o e l   G u i n t o
-- 2012-04-13T06:23:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/philippines-says-south-china-sea-standoff-talks-moving-forward.html
The  Philippines  said negotiations
with China to end a four-day standoff in the South China Sea
were progressing with both sides submitting proposals and
replacing ships in the disputed waters rich in oil and fish.  Philippine Foreign Secretary Albert del Rosario said he met
with Chinese envoy Ma Keqing today, adding to previous
discussions this week. The Philippines yesterday removed its
biggest warship from the disputed Scarborough Shoal, replacing
it with a Coast Guard vessel.  “We had a rather long meeting with the Chinese ambassador
and we discussed at some length the proposal I sent to her,”
del Rosario told reporters today without providing details.
“She responded by sending her proposal to me. We will look at
that carefully.”  The negotiations highlight overlapping claims to the
waters, where nations have yet to agree upon a  code of conduct .
 China  considers most of the sea as its own and used patrol boats
last year to disrupt hydrocarbon survey activities by the
Philippines and  Vietnam .  Del Rosario repeated today he wants to resolve the deadlock
over illegal fishing before he travels to the U.S. on April 15.
China’s Foreign Ministry spokesman Liu Weimin told reporters in
Beijing yesterday that his country hoped the issue would not
“become complicated and amplified.”  Competing Accounts  The Philippines and China have issued competing accounts of
the confrontation. While the Philippines said Chinese ships had
prevented it from arresting fisherman on its territory, China
said the Philippines had illegally blocked the passage of ships
seeking shelter from rough weather.  The smaller Philippine ship yesterday “relieved” the BRP
Gregorio del Pilar, a Naval vessel obtained from the U.S. last
year, Armed Forces Northern Luzon commander Lieutenant General
Anthony Alcantara told reporters. China yesterday reiterated
that its two ships were not military vessels and were providing
protection for fishermen.  China has since replaced one of the two surveillance ships
with a vessel from its environment bureau, Philippine Navy Chief
Alexander Pama said today by phone. He described the situation
as “still status quo.”  Chinese patrols last year chased away a ship working for
 Forum Energy Plc (FEP)  off the Philippines. Confrontations with
Chinese fisherman have occurred in other waters as well, and
have involved the region’s largest economies.  A South Korean Coast Guard member died in December after he
was stabbed by a Chinese sailor during an operation to seize an
illegal fishing boat in the  Yellow Sea .  Japan  has protested over
several incidents in the  East China Sea , including the collision
involving a Chinese fishing boat and Japanese Coast Guard ships
in 2010 that sparked a diplomatic row.  ‘Seeking Shelter’  The Chinese fishermen were first spotted in the area on
April 8, according to a Philippine statement, which referred to
the waters as “an integral part of Philippine territory.” The
Philippine ship on April 10 blocked the entrance to a lagoon
where 12 fishing boats were seeking shelter, according to the
Chinese embassy in Manila.  The U.S. has a mutual defense treaty with the Philippines
and has boosted military relations with Vietnam in recent years.
Both countries reject China’s  map  of the  South China Sea  as a
basis for joint development of oil and gas resources and have
pushed ahead with exploration work.  The South China Sea contains oil reserves that may total as
much as 213 billion barrels, according to Chinese studies cited
in 2008 by the U.S. Energy Information Agency. The Philippines
said in January it’s ready to host a summit to help resolve
territorial disputes in the South China Sea.  The Philippines spent $1.5 billion on defense in 2010,
compared with China’s $114 billion, according to data compiled
by the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute.  The Scarborough Shoal is within the Philippines’ 200
nautical miles exclusive economic zone and continental shelf,
yesterday’s statement from the country’s foreign ministry said.
China refers to the feature as Huangyan Island.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Guinto in  Manila  at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  