-- Poland Very Likely to Debate Rate Raise in May, Belka Says
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2012-04-13T14:51:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/poland-very-likely-to-debate-rate-raise-in-may-belka-says-1-.html
Poland ’s central bank will “almost
certainly” vote on a rate-increase motion next month, Governor
 Marek Belka  said, adding that it is “hard to say” whether
policy makers will decide to increase borrowing costs.  Inflation (POCPIYOY)  slowed to 3.9 percent in March from 4.3 percent
the previous month, in line with the median estimate of 30
economists in a Bloomberg News survey the statistics office in
Warsaw said today. The rate has exceeded the 3.5 percent upper
limit of the central bank’s tolerance range since January 2011.  “March inflation data were neutral for the council,
neither encouraging nor discouraging a rate increase,” Belka
said, according to the state-owned PAP news service. “It is
very likely that we will consider an  interest-rate  increase at
the meeting next month.”  The Narodowy Bank Polski on April 4 kept the benchmark
seven-day interest rate at 4.5 percent, the highest since
January 2009. The Monetary Policy Council is “approaching the
stage to seriously consider” raising borrowing costs, Belka
said after the decision was announced. The Council will hold its
next meeting May 8-9.  The zloty weakened after the inflation report at 2 p.m.
before recovering to trade at 4.1807 per euro at 3:50 p.m. in
Warsaw, down 0.4 percent on the day. The yield on the five-year
bond maturing in October 2016 rose to 5.03 percent from 5.013
percent late yesterday.  ‘No Impact’  “Inflation came close to the central bank’s expectations
and should have no impact on the council’s rhetoric since
prospects for inflation returning to the target are distant,”
Wojciech Matysiak, an economist at  Bank Pekao SA (PEO)  in Warsaw, said
in a note. “Data from the real economy will soon confirm that
the economy is slowing, which will prevent the council from
raising the rate.”  Gross domestic product  rose 4.3 percent in the fourth
quarter of 2011 from the year-earlier period, leading to
expectations the full-year growth estimate of 4.3 percent may be
revised higher, Belka said last month. Last week, he reiterated
the economy may slow less than previously estimated this year,
while the first-quarter economic expansion was “probably also
around 4 percent.”  “Industrial output and retail sales data can have
significant meaning for the council’s decision,” Belka said
today, cited by PAP newswire. Poland is scheduled to release
industrial output figures on April 19 and retail sales on April
25.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net  