-- Polish Inflation Slowed to 3.9% in March on Food, Fuel
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2012-04-13T12:47:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/polish-inflation-slowed-to-3-9-in-march-on-food-fuel.html
Polish  inflation  slowed in March as
the cost of food and fuel fell, easing pressure on the central
bank to raise interest rates.  The annual inflation rate fell to 3.9 percent from 4.3
percent in February, the  Central Statistical Office  in Warsaw
said today. The figure matches the median estimate of 30
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Prices rose 0.5 percent
from the previous month.  Poland ’s central bank has an inflation
target of 2.5 percent.  “The figures improve chances that inflation will return to
target,” Elzbieta Chojna-Duch of the central bank’s Monetary
Policy said in an interview on TVN CNBC after the data were
released. March price growth, while in line with market
forecasts, was “slightly better” than the central bank
expected, she said. March output and retail sales data, due next
week, will weigh on the next rate decision, Chojna-Duch said.  Last week, the Narodowy Bank Polski left its benchmark
 interest rate  at 4.5 percent for a 10th month, saying the rate
will be raised unless “considerable” economic weakening
appears and the inflation outlook improves. While Governor  Marek Belka  said the economy probably expanded about 4 percent in the
first quarter, price growth has exceeded the 3.5 percent upper
limit of the bank’s tolerance range since January 2011.  Zloty Weakens  The zloty weakened after the data before recovering to
trade at 4.1807 per euro at 2:43 p.m. in Warsaw, down 0.4
percent on the day. The yield on the five-year bond maturing in
October 2016 rose to 5.017 percent from 5.013 percent late
yesterday.  Policy makers may consider raising borrowing costs as early
as May, Belka said at a press conference on April 4 after the
last rate meeting. The governor also said he “wouldn’t read too
much into monthly inflation numbers, but would rather look at
what’s happening in the wider economy.”  “This isn’t a major slowdown and it’s mainly due to high-
year earlier inflation,” Monika Kurtek, chief economist at Bank
Pocztowy SA in Warsaw, said by phone. “A rate increase in May
is very probable, unless we get weak industrial output and
retail sales figures for March next week.”  Costs for food and drink eased to 4 percent last month from
4.6 percent in February, the report showed. Fuel prices slowed
to 14.9 percent from 17.2 percent in the previous month.  The central bank’s  Monetary Policy  Council is scheduled to
hold its next rate meeting on May 8-9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  