-- Traders Walk Out of CME Eurodollar Pit to Protest Trade
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-04-13T20:01:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/traders-walk-out-of-cme-eurodollar-pit-to-protest-trade.html
Local traders in the  CME Group
Inc. (CME) ’s Eurodollar options pit walked off the job today to
protest a block trade yesterday.  “These guys that stand in there all day and make prices
would have loved to participate in that particular price, but
they weren’t able to,” Rocco Chierici, a broker at R.J. O’Brien
& Associates on the floor of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange,
said in a telephone interview.  Prices for the block trades of options on Eurodollar
futures were higher than offers in the pit, which wouldn’t be
allowed in open-outcry trading, Chierici said. Local traders buy
and sell for their own account and in the process help add
liquidity to a market. Block trades are privately negotiated
transactions that are conducted outside the normal pit or via
computer-based trading systems used by exchanges.  “There are rules that prohibit that in the pit, but you
can circumvent the pit” in a block trade, Chierici said. “I
believe they wanted to make the point that the system is not
fair.”  Six block trades totaling 215,200 options traded at 8:11
a.m. Chicago time yesterday, according to CME Group’s  website .
The trade was rolling positions from April contracts, which
expired today, into June contracts.  ‘Longstanding Rules’  “The block trade in question was managed by longstanding
rules and processes of our exchanges,”  Michael Shore , a CME
Group spokesman, said in an e-mail. “It was a legitimate, well-
managed trade, which was executed within one tick of the market
and in one trade.”  Other traders continued to help buy and sell options on
Eurodollars, which are contracts tied to three-month
expectations for interest rates, Shore said.  While volume has been down recently, the walk-off cut the
number of orders to buy and sell today, Chierici said. “There
was a small drop because a lot of the volume is local,” he
said.  CME Group has seen demand for Eurodollars, once the largest
contract by volume, fall as the  Federal Reserve  has kept its
benchmark  interest rate  near zero since December 2008.
Eurodollar options volume last month averaged 811,000 contracts
per day, compared with 1.3 million on average in the same month
in 2007, according to CME statements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 