-- Rangers Defeat Senators in Opening Game of NHL Playoff Series
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-04-13T05:07:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/rangers-defeat-senators-in-opening-game-of-nhl-playoff-series.html
The  New York Rangers  beat the
Ottawa Senators 4-2 in the opening game of their National Hockey
League first-round playoff series.  The other three games last night went to overtime as the
defending champion  Boston  Bruins defeated the Washington
Capitals 1-0, the San Jose Sharks beat the St. Louis Blues 3-2
and the Phoenix Coyotes topped the Chicago Blackhawks 3-2.  Ryan Callahan , Marian Gaborik, Brian Boyle and Brad Richards scored for the Rangers at Madison Square Garden in  New
York  before Daniel Alfredsson and Erik Condra got goals for the
Senators, who are playing in the postseason for the first time
in three years.  “We stayed within ourselves and found our game,” Rangers
coach John Tortorella, who won the  Stanley Cup  in 2004 with the
 Tampa Bay Lightning , told reporters. “We found a way.”  The Rangers are the Eastern Conference’s top seed for the
first time since 1994, when they last won the Stanley Cup. New
York, the second favorite to win the title behind the  Pittsburgh
Penguins , lost three of its four regular-season games against
the Senators.  Forward Chris Kreider, who has a chance to become the first
person since 1987 to play in the postseason in the same year
that he won a national college championship, wasn’t included in
the Rangers lineup.  Five days ago the 20-year-old Kreider won the National
Collegiate Athletic Association title with  Boston College . The
last person to claim that title and then play in the NHL
postseason was Tony Hrkac, who won the college championship 25
years ago with the University of North Dakota before playing for
the  St. Louis Blues  in the NHL playoffs, the league said.  The teams return to Madison Square Garden for Game 2 on
April 14 before heading to Ottawa for two games.  Bruins Win  In other first-round series last night, the Bruins beat the
Capitals on Chris Kelly’s goal one minute, 18 seconds into
overtime at TD Garden in Boston.  Eight different teams have won the past eight Stanley Cup
titles and the last team to successfully defend the championship
was the  Detroit Red Wings  in 1998.  The Sharks needed double overtime to defeat Western
Conference No. 2 seed the Blues after taking the lead at
Scottrade Center in St. Louis, Missouri, on a Martin Havlat
power-play goal in the second period.  Patrik Berglund got two goals in the third period for the
home team before Andrew Desjardins tied it 5:16 from the end.
Havlat got the winner 3:34 into the second overtime to give the
Sharks a 1-0 lead in the best-of-seven series.  Late Goal  At Jobing.com Arena in Glendale,  Arizona , Jonathan Toews
gave the Blackhawks a 1-0 lead over the Coyotes, who went 2-1
ahead in the second period with goals 10 minutes apart by Taylor Pyatt and Antoine Vermette.  Phoenix stayed ahead until Brent Seabrook forced overtime
by scoring for Chicago with 15 seconds to play. Martin Hanzal
got the winner for the Coyotes 9:29 into overtime.  There are four first-round games tomorrow. The Penguins
host the Philadelphia Flyers, who rallied from a 3-0 deficit to
win the opening game in the series 4-3 in overtime.  The  Vancouver Canucks , the top seed in the Western
Conference, resume their series against the Los Angeles Kings
trailing by one game to nil.  The Nashville Predators host the  Red Wings  seeking to take
a 2-0 lead in games, while the Florida Panthers host the New
Jersey Devils in their series opener.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 