-- Trayvon Martin Judge May Step Down Over Husband’s Boss
-- B y   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h   a n d   D e r e k   K i n n e r
-- 2012-04-14T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/trayvon-martin-judge-may-step-down-over-husband-s-boss.html
Florida Judge Jessica Recksiedler,
who was assigned the Trayvon Martin shooting case, revealed a
possible conflict of interest tied to her husband, a lawyer who
works with a TV legal analyst with ties to the defendant.  The judge asked defense lawyer Mark O’Mara to file any
request that she step aside by next week so she can rule before
an April 20 bond hearing. At that proceeding, O’Mara is set to
ask that his client, George Zimmerman, be released on his own
recognizance while he awaits trial on a murder charge.  Recksiedler’s husband works with Mark NeJame, a television
analyst for  CNN  initially contacted by Zimmerman’s family in
their search for a defense lawyer, the judge disclosed at a
hearing in Sanford yesterday. NeJame referred Zimmerman to
O’Mara.  “It’s my understanding that Mr. Zimmerman had contacted
Mark NeJame to represent him prior to you Mr. O’Mara,” the
judge said at the hearing. “As I’ve disclosed previously, my
husband works with Mark NeJame.” Her husband, Jason Jarrett
Recksiedler, “does, however, practice only civil law. He’s
never practiced criminal law and does not practice criminal law
at this time,” she said.  O’Mara, who appeared along with state lawyers by
teleconference, told the judge he was concerned about NeJame’s
role as an analyst, and that NeJame had gotten Zimmerman’s
family to sign an agreement allowing the analyst to disclose
that he had talked to them. O’Mara said he hadn’t seen the
agreement.  An Analyst  “When Mr. NeJame decided to act as an analyst and not take
on the case ... he suggested that I might be a better choice,”
O’Mara said. “He has a connection with the family that I
haven’t understood yet.”  O’Mara later said that NeJame’s “role is going to be quite
significant as an analyst and it is going to be more and more
difficult I think, to maintain the proper separation.”  NeJame, the judge’s husband and  Florida  State Attorney
Angela Corey didn’t immediately return calls yesterday seeking
comment on the hearing.  Zimmerman, who claimed self-defense in the February
shooting death of Martin, 17, is scheduled to be arraigned May
29 on a charge of second-degree murder.  Zimmerman, 28, was charged April 11. He appeared April 12
in an initial court appearance at a Sanford prison handcuffed
and wearing a dark-colored jumpsuit. He said only “yes sir” to
acknowledge to Judge Mark Herr his representation by O’Mara
during the five-minute hearing.  The judge found sufficient evidence to support the murder
charge, clearing the way to send the case to Recksiedler, a
trial court judge. Zimmerman wasn’t present at yesterday’s
hearing.  Protective Custody  Zimmerman is being held in protective custody and faces as
long as life in prison if convicted. O’Mara has said his client
will plead not guilty.  In the affidavit Herr reviewed before ruling there was
probable cause for the murder charge, state investigators said
Zimmerman referred to Martin and alleged burglars in his
community by several expletives, and called them “punks” while
on the 911 call the day of the confrontation.  He chased Martin, who was unarmed, against the warning of a
police dispatcher and struggled with the teenager before
shooting him once in the chest, investigators alleged in the
affidavit.  State officials said Martin’s mother reviewed the tapes of
other 911 calls and determined that a voice crying for help was
that of her son, the investigators said in the filing.  Shot Martin  Zimmerman shot Martin on Feb. 26 in Sanford, a central-
Florida town of 54,000 people north of  Orlando .  Florida’s “Stand Your Ground” law enables individuals who
feel threatened in a public place to “meet force with force,”
rather than back away, a statute that strengthens any
traditional self-defense assertion, criminal attorneys said.  The law prevented police from arresting Zimmerman in
February, officials said at the time, and may play a role in
derailing the prosecution, according to Florida defense lawyers,
who said the defendant may be able to raise the issue both
before, and during, any trial.  Patrick McGuinness, an attorney in Jacksonville, said
Florida statutes allow defendants to present evidence to a judge
before trial that they acted under the Stand Your Ground law.  If the judge agrees with the defense, the case would be
immediately dismissed.  “The statutes, as now drafted, permit counsel if they wish
to seek a pre-trial determination of whether the defendant is
entitled to immunity from prosecution,” McGuinness said in an
interview. They must “demonstrate to the court’s satisfaction,
by a preponderance of the evidence, that they are entitled to
immunity. If the court rules in their favor, that will
effectively end the prosecution.”  The case is State of Florida v. Zimmerman, 1712FO4573,
Circuit Court of the 18th Judicial Circuit (Seminole County).  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Susannah Nesmith in Miami
at  susannahnesmith@yahoo.com  and;
Derek Kinner in Jacksonville
at  dkinner59@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 