-- Treasuries Advance on European Debt Crisis, China GDP
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-04-13T21:11:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/treasuries-snap-loss-on-speculation-price-gains-slowed.html
Treasuries rose, pushing 10-year
yields below 2 percent, on speculation  Europe ’s sovereign-debt
crisis is worsening as Spanish banks’ borrowings from the
 European Central Bank  jumped last month.  U.S. 10-year  notes  posted a fourth week of gains, the
longest stretch of weekly increases since August. Treasuries
were supported after a report showed China’s gross domestic
product rose less than economists forecast, encouraging
speculation global growth is slowing. The  Federal Reserve 
purchased $1.8 billion of securities as part of a program to
boost the  U.S. economy .  “It’s going to be a long process before Europe is out of
the woods,” said Justin Lederer, an interest-rate strategist at
Cantor Fitzgerald LP in  New York , one of 21 primary dealers that
trade with the Fed. “It’s a risk-off day. Europe has an effect
on our markets as well, and it will have an effect on economic
data and how our economy grows.”  Yields on 10-year notes decreased seven basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, to 1.98 percent at 5:01 p.m. New York
time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2 percent
securities maturing in February 2022 advanced 19/32, or $5.94
per $1,000 face amount, to 100 5/32.  Yields on 30-year bonds decreased eight basis points to
3.13 percent. The  Standard & Poor’s 500  dropped 1.3 percent.  Yield Decline  The benchmark 10-year  yields  have dropped seven basis
points this week. The four weeks of price gains is the longest
winning streak since the week ended Aug. 19, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Yields have declined 30 basis points
since the week ended March 16.  Treasuries remained higher as the cost of living in the
U.S. increased 0.3 percent in March, matching forecasts,
according to a report from the Labor Department.  The so-called core measure of CPI, which excludes food and
energy, rose 0.2 percent, the Labor Department said. The cost of
goods and services excluding food and energy in the U.S. rose
2.3 percent in March from a year earlier. It rose 2.2 percent
for the 12 months ended in February.  Wholesale prices in the U.S. excluding food and fuel rose
more than forecast in March, Labor Department figures showed
yesterday in  Washington .  Inflation Measure  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices during the life of the debt known as the
break-even rate, was 2.27 percentage points. The average for the
past decade is 2.14 percentage points.  “Our economists expect a path of moderation in CPI growth
over the coming months,” Eric Van Nostrand, interest rate
strategist at primary dealer Credit Suisse Group AG, wrote in a
note to clients. Van Nostrand recommended that investors should
short 10-year TIPS break-evens as they are 30 basis points rich
compared with the firm’s model. A short is a bet the price of a
security will decline.  A  measure  of traders’ inflation expectations that the Fed
uses to help guide monetary policy was at 2.6 percent, below its
2.76 percent average during the past decade. It touched 2.78
percent on March 19, the highest in 2012.  It reached 3.23 percent in August, the highest since
December 2010. The five-year, five-year forward break-even rate
projects annual price increases over a five-year period
beginning in 2017.  Real Yields  Treasury 10-year notes pay negative 0.7 percentage points,
after subtracting consumer price increases. The so-called  real
yields  in the U.S. averaged 2.6 percentage points over the past
20 years. It hit a high of 5.9 percentage points in August 2009.  The U.S. will sell $16 billion of five-year Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities on April 19. The U.S. sold $12
billion of the securities at the previous sale Dec. 15.  The Treasury auctioned $66 billion in notes and bonds this
week, including $13 billion in 30-year bonds yesterday, $21
billion in 10-year notes the previous day and $32 billion in
three-year notes on April 10. This week’s sales will raise $23.1
billion of new cash as maturing securities held by the public
total $42.9 billion.  Thirty-year bonds, sensitive to inflation because of their
long maturity, returned 2.7 percent this month as of yesterday,
compared with a 0.9 percent gain for the broad market, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Value Trade  Valuation measures show  U.S. government debt  is approaching
the most expensive levels in almost five weeks. The term
premium, a model created by economists at the Fed, reached
negative 0.64 percent today after touching negative 0.65 percent
on April 10. A negative reading indicates investors are willing
to accept yields below what’s considered fair value.  The Fed purchased Treasuries due from February 2036 to
August 2041 today, according to the New York Fed’s  website.  The
central bank is replacing $400 billion of shorter-term debt in
its holdings with longer maturities to hold down borrowing
costs.  Investors optimistic enough to predict that the Fed won’t
buy more debt to support the economy decreased this month amid
slower job growth, according to a Citigroup Inc. survey.  Almost 45 percent of respondents said they didn’t expect
the Fed to carry out a third round of quantitative easing, known
as QE3, according to the April survey by the bank’s Citigroup
Global Markets unit. That was down from about 60 percent of
respondents who expected no QE3 in a March survey. The recent
results were published yesterday in a research note.  Fed View  Bill Gross ,  Jeffrey Gundlach  and  Dan Fuss , whose companies
collectively oversee about $1.5 trillion, expect the Fed to
conduct a third round of bond purchases as signs of strength in
the U.S. economy fade and Europe’s debt crisis returns. The
managers at Pacific Investment Management Co. and DoubleLine
Capital LP favor mortgage debt, while Loomis Sayles & Co. buys
corporate bonds.  China’s  gross domestic product  expanded 8.1 percent in the
first quarter from a year earlier, the lowest since 2009, the
 National Bureau of Statistics  said today. The median estimate in
a Bloomberg News survey was for 8.4 percent growth. Some
strategists say slowing growth will increase pressure on central
banks around the world to do more to fuel the expansion.  “We’ve had somewhat friendly data, in the form of  China 
GDP,” said  David Ader , head of U.S. government bond strategy at
CRT Capital Group in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Spain’s Debt  The cost of insuring against a Spanish default jumped to a
record as Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  struggled to prevent the
nation from becoming the fourth euro-region member to need a
bailout.  Credit-default swaps on  Spain  rose 17 basis points to 498
as of 4 p.m. in  London , surpassing the all-time high closing
price of 493, according to CMA. The contracts are up from 431 at
the start of the month and 380 at the end of 2011, signaling
deterioration in investor perceptions of  credit quality .  The yield on Spain’s 10-year bond rose to 6 percent, close
to the four month high of 6.02 percent reached April 11. Spanish
banks’ borrowings from the ECB jumped by almost 50 percent in
March, reaching the most on record, as lenders tap emergency
loans and channel some of it into sovereign debt purchases.  “We’re back to looking at Europe as our main driver,”
said  Thomas Roth , senior Treasury trader in New York at
Mitsubishi UFJ Securities USA Inc. “We’re back to that game
plan. The Spanish banks borrowed more from the ECB than was
expected.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  