-- Crisis Programs May Earn Long-Term Profit, U.S. Treasury Says
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2012-04-14T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/treasury-says-crisis-stability-programs-expected-to-break-even.html
The  U.S. Treasury  Department,
defending the Obama administration’s efforts to fight the
financial crisis, said programs intended to right the economy
and bail out companies such as  General Motors Co. (GM)  may earn a
profit for taxpayers in the long term.  That assessment includes bailouts of banks and automakers
under the Troubled Asset Relief Program as well as Federal
Reserve crisis measures, such as large-scale asset purchases,
according to Treasury officials who briefed reporters in
Washington yesterday on condition of anonymity. It excludes the
$825 billion stimulus package passed in 2009.  The officials said they wanted to combat public perceptions
that the programs were too expensive or had failed, and they
cited estimates published in news media in 2008 and 2009 that
the bailouts would cost into the trillions of dollars. The
programs ended up working better and losing less money than
anyone could have projected, one of the officials said.  “They have a good story to tell, but it’s a strange mix of
things they’re counting,” said  Phillip Swagel , former assistant
Treasury secretary for economic policy in the George W. Bush
administration and now a professor at the University of Maryland
in  College Park . He said he questioned whether profits from the
Fed programs should be taken into account alongside funds to
bail out car companies.  Congress Republicans  Republicans in Congress have criticized the bailouts, which
began under Bush in 2008 and continued under President Barack Obama starting in 2009. Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney supported aid for banks while opposing help for
automakers.  The Treasury presentation came the same day Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  gave a speech in  New York  defending the central
bank’s response to the crisis. The Fed’s actions as financial
firms were failing “reflected the best of bad options,”
Bernanke said yesterday.  The chairman of  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , the
insurer rescued by a 2008 U.S. bailout, said yesterday that the
government may exit its stake in the company by next year.  “It will be Treasury’s choice as to when they want to
liquidate” their shares, AIG Chairman  Steve Miller  said in a
Bloomberg Television interview. “But it is certainly within the
realm of possibility that it could happen within the next 12
months.”  AIG Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche , 67, has
repurchased shares from the government to help the company
regain independence from its rescue and improve return on
equity. New York-based AIG bought back $3 billion of stock from
the Treasury last month at $29 a share as the department sold
the same amount at that price in an offering to investors,
cutting the U.S. stake to about 70 percent.  Subject to Change  The Treasury’s projections on the costs of the financial
rescue are subject to changes in the economy and financial
markets, and extend as much as a decade into the future.
Investments in mortgage-finance companies  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie
Mac  have a current net cost of $151 billion that the Office of
Management and Budget projects will fall to $28 billion by
fiscal year 2022.  The TARP, used to bail out financial firms, including
Citigroup Inc. and  Bank of America Corp ., as well as automakers,
is projected to lose about $60 billion, the officials said.  The  auto industry  has added more than 230,000 jobs since
the bailouts, according to the Treasury. The potential cost to
families and businesses that rely on the sector would have been
far greater than the $22 billion that the Treasury estimates it
will lose on that auto portion of the crisis-rescue plan.  Making up for some of the losses are gains from the Fed
programs, including emergency liquidity plans and asset
purchases. Earnings from those efforts are projected to reach
$179 billion through fiscal 2015.  The Fed bought $2.3 trillion of bonds from December 2008 to
last June in an effort to reduce long-term borrowing costs and
spur the economy. The Fed returns interest income from those
holdings to the Treasury after covering its expenses.  The officials also showed statistics illustrating financial
difficulties for families, including a decline in real median
 household income  to $49,445 in 2010 from $53,252 in 1999.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in  Washington  at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ; 