-- Road to Democratic House Majority Bypasses Pennsylvania
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2012-04-13T16:13:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/road-to-democratic-house-majority-bypasses-pennsylvania.html
The road to a Democratic majority
in the U.S. House of Representatives used to run through the
industrial battleground states of  Pennsylvania (BEESPA)  and  Ohio (BEESOH) .  That’s no longer so as Republicans, in control of the
largest number of state legislatures since 1928, have redrawn
congressional boundaries to bolster their 2010 election gains
and cordon Democrats into concentrated urban districts. The new
lines will make it difficult for Democrats to pick up enough
seats to gain the House majority in November.  “Republicans have found it easier than ever to quarantine
Democrats in very lopsided districts,” said  David Wasserman ,
House editor at the nonpartisan Cook Political Report.
“Democrats would need to win on Republican turf in order to
take back the House.”  Democrats, meanwhile, have taken advantage of their
influence in states including  Illinois  and  California  to reshape
districts in a way intended to boost their electoral chances.  Nonpartisan studies of the new maps project a gain of one
or two House seats for Republicans in the November election. The
party’s goal in redrawing congressional districts after the 2010
Census was to cement gains from two years ago, when Republicans
picked up 63 House seats, the most since 1946. Democrats would
need 25 seats to take the majority.  “I expect Republicans will retain control of the House,”
said  Michael McDonald , an associate government professor at
 George Mason University  in Fairfax,  Virginia , who studies voting
demographics.  Gerlach, Meehan, Barletta  Following redistricting in  Pennsylvania , Republicans Jim Gerlach, Patrick Meehan and Lou Barletta -- previously
considered top targets for Democrats because they represent
districts that elected President Barack Obama by wide margins in
2008 -- aren’t in the first or second tier of Democratic
opportunities, according to the nonpartisan Rothenberg Political
Report.  McDonald said the trend is fueled by the tendency of
Democratic voters to be concentrated in urban areas and
Republican voters to be spread across larger expanses that are
more easily redrawn to create majority-Republican districts.  Democrats dispute the notion that redistricting has
imperiled their campaign to take over the House majority in the
113th Congress.  “Republicans have about as much an advantage on
redistricting as they do on Medicare -- zero,” said
Representative Steve Israel, a  New York  Democrat and chairman of
the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. “Any objective
analysis of redistricting shows that it is a wash.”  Illinois Districts  In Illinois, which is losing one of its 19 U.S. House
seats, Democrats divided six Republican districts and seek to
elect five new Democrats. In California, a new citizen-run
process may convert three or four Republican-leaning seats into
pickups for Democrats.  Israel identified other populous states where Democrats
benefited from redistricting as  Florida , New York,  Washington 
and  Texas .  According to the Democratic campaign committee, in January
2011, before redistricting, 61 Republicans represented U.S.
House districts that Obama carried in 2008, and 14 of them also
were won by 2004 Democratic presidential nominee  John Kerry . In
the new districts, the numbers are 64 and 18, according to the
Democratic committee.  Obama and Kerry  The National Republican Campaign Committee said its
analysis showed the opposite -- that redistricting put fewer
Republicans in Obama and Kerry districts, and more Democrats in
areas carried by 2008 Republican nominee  John McCain  and
President  George W. Bush . “Redistricting has left Democrats
with an even steeper climb,” said Republican committee
spokesman  Paul Lindsay .  Control of redistricting, while helpful, isn’t a guarantee
of political success. Six years ago Democrats won the U.S. House
aided by a wave that was sufficient to overcome Republican
advantages in the prior redistricting.  In any event, the number of seats Democrats have to pick up
is closer to 40, Wasserman said, citing losses Democrats are
likely to sustain from retirements in districts favored to go
Republican, districts where Democrats are running against each
other, and those with newly vulnerable Democrats.  Wasserman also wrote in an April 5 memo that Republicans
made up 80 percent of the incumbents who gained partisan
advantage through redistricting, saving “between 10 and 15
seats they would have otherwise lost.”  Five Seats  Republicans took over five seats each in  Pennsylvania  and
 Ohio  in 2010. Now, only one of those districts in each state --
represented by  Mike Fitzpatrick  in  Pennsylvania  and Jim Renacci
in  Ohio  -- is considered highly competitive, according to
Rothenberg.  Freshman Barletta’s Pennsylvania district, held by Democrat
Paul Kanjorski from 1985 through 2010, is a prime example of how
Republicans fortified their once-vulnerable members in
battleground states. Pennsylvania Republicans have large
majorities in the state House and Senate, and Governor Tom Corbett is a Republican.  Republicans carved Democratic-dominated Scranton and
Wilkes-Barre from Barletta’s district and added them to the
neighboring one of Democratic Representative Tim Holden. After
losing his first two congressional campaigns to Kanjorski,
Barletta is now considered safe by Rothenberg, which no longer
lists his 11th district as competitive.  ‘Amazing Redraw’  “It’s a pretty amazing redraw to go from one of the top
races in the country to not even on the list,” said  Nathan Gonzales , deputy editor at Rothenberg. Through redistricting,
“in many states, Republicans shored up the gains they already
made in 2010,” he said.  Republicans shaped Barletta’s district into a narrow band
that stretches almost from Pennsylvania’s border with  Maryland 
to New York. By conceding the neighboring district to Holden, a
former county sheriff in his 10th term of office, Republicans
bolstered Barletta and Republican Tom Marino by adding more
Republican-rich precincts to their districts.  Ohio  Republicans followed the same strategy, creating a new
Democratic district in Columbus to shore up seats outside the
city. “That just shows you what their focus has been,” said
Wasserman.  Meanwhile, Pennsylvania Democratic incumbents Jason Altmire
and Mark Critz are in a primary competition for the single
district Republicans packed them into, shaped like a shovel
digging into the south-central part of the state beyond
Johnstown and stretching to the Ohio border past Pittsburgh. The
new map gave Republican Pat Meehan an additional 35,000 to
40,000 rural voters, who tend to be Republican.  “Republicans this time were not expansionist, they were
not imperialist,” said  Terry Madonna , who teaches politics at
Franklin & Marshall College in Lancaster, Pennsylvania. “It’s
one of the most efficient, effective gerrymanders in history.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  