-- Rocket Failure Weakens N.Korea Blackmail Diplomacy, Lankov Says
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2012-04-13T02:10:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/rocket-failure-weakens-n-korea-blackmail-diplomacy-lankov-says.html
 Andrei Lankov, an associate
professor at Kookmin University in Seoul, comments about  North
Korea  after South Korea’s defense ministry said the North’s
rocket launch may have failed:  On possible North Korea’s rocket missile:  “I would dare to predict that North Korea won’t admit
their failure. I would be slightly surprised if they admit that
their rocket malfunctioned. I would expect them to claim that
they have succeeded in putting their satellite into orbit. This
is their usual way.  “They have already failed three times and they never
admitted it. They made a big fuss about it and now they have a
new leader. It will be very unstable control if they admit a
failure.  “It seems that rocket fell into the sea so they can easily
deny it happened. Nobody saw it, it happened quite far away from
everybody’s eye sight. Domestically, they have complete control
of the society and information.”  On North’s missile technology:  “Talking about the international situation, it will have
some impact because once again it shows that they are very far
away from developing a full-scale, reliable delivery system. The
reason why they did it is because they want to show the world
that they are capable of developing a reliable long-range
ballistic missile. It has not happened. So this will be decrease
the efficiency of their blackmail diplomacy.”  On possible sanctions against North Korea:  “Experience has shown that sanctions have next to no
impact to North Korea, partially because  China  has always
sabotaged sanctions and partially because North Korean society
is designed in a way that makes it extremely unresponsive to any
outside pressures.  “Breaking the agreement with the U.S. now was clearly a
mistake.”  On the possibility of North’s nuclear test:  “I think they do have plans to conduct nuclear test soon.
They often do it in pairs, a missile launch and nuclear test. It
would make sense as part of their blackmail policy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Seoul at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  