-- Romney Varmint-Hunting Tales Aimed at Gun-Owning Skeptics
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-04-14T04:01:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/romney-varmint-hunting-tales-aimed-at-gun-owning-skeptics.html
Courting skeptical gun owners,  Mitt Romney  told a  National Rifle Association  convention that their
rights are under assault from President Barack Obama’s
administration and they must help block his re-election.  “We need a president who will enforce current laws, not
create new ones that only serve to burden lawful gun owners.
President Obama has not; I will,” the presumptive Republican
presidential nominee said in  St. Louis  yesterday at a gathering
organizers say will draw about 65,000 through the weekend.  “We need a president who will stand up for the rights of
hunters, sportsmen and those who seek to protect their homes and
their families,” he said. “President Obama has not; I will.”  Romney suggested defeating Obama would help ensure the U.S.
 Supreme Court  would continue to protect gun rights under the
Constitution’s Second Amendment.  “In his first term, we’ve seen this president try to
browbeat the Supreme Court,” Romney said. “In a second term,
he would remake it. Our freedoms would be in the hands of an
Obama Court, not just for four years, but for the next 40. And
we must not let that happen.”  Romney argued Obama has moved the nation “away from our
founders’ vision” of limited government with an “assault” on
freedom. “Freedom is the victim of unbounded government
appetite --and so is economic growth and job growth and wage
growth,” he said.  Romney’s Wife  Before his speech, Romney introduced his wife as he sought
to keep alive the political furor that erupted when a Democratic
strategist scorned  Ann Romney , a mother of five, for never
having “worked a day in her life.”  “I happen to believe all moms are working moms,” Mitt
Romney said.  The NRA represents a key constituency for Romney as he
tries to consolidate his party’s support following the
nomination fight and amid a heightened discussion about gun
rights following the February fatal shooting in Florida of a
black teenager, Trayvon Martin, by a neighborhood watch
volunteer.  Republicans are more likely to have guns in their homes
than Democrats, 55 percent to 40 percent, according to a Gallup
 poll  taken in October. The survey showed 47 percent of American
adults have a  firearm  in their homes.  NRA Membership  The NRA has approximately 4 million members, according to
Stephanie Samford, a spokeswoman. Many are located in such
general election swing states as  Florida  and  Ohio .  Romney’s audience included those skeptical of his
commitment to their side of the debate over gun laws.  “He’s better than Obama,” said Tom Zenthoefer, 53, an NRA
member from Fenton,  Missouri . “It will be a hold-your-nose
situation.”  Ahead of the speech, Obama campaign spokesman  Ben LaBolt 
tweaked Romney, echoing lines of attack that were used against
him by former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  and former
Senator  Rick Santorum  of  Pennsylvania  during the Republican
primary race.  “The president’s record makes clear the he supports and
respects the Second Amendment,” LaBolt said in a statement,
referring to the constitutional provision protecting the right
to bear arms. “Mitt Romney is going to have difficulty
explaining why he quadrupled fees on gun owners in
 Massachusetts , then lied about being a lifelong hunter in an act
of shameless pandering. That varmint won’t hunt.”  Varmints, Rodents  During his first White House bid, Romney made clear in 2007
that he isn’t a serious hunter, as he talked about varmints.  “I’m not a big-game hunter,” he said. “I’ve made it very
clear, I’ve always been a, if you will, a rodent and rabbit
hunter all right? Small, small varmints, if you will. And I
began when I was, oh, 15 or so, and have hunted those kinds of
varmints since then -- more than two times. I also hunted quail
in  Georgia , so I’ve -- it’s not really big-game hunting, if you
will, however. It’s not deer and large animals. But I’ve hunted
a number of times of various types of small rodents.”  Andrea Saul, a Romney spokeswoman, said he now owns two
shotguns.  Gingrich and Santorum stoked questions about Romney’s
support for gun owners by suggesting he shares Obama’s gun
views, including support for the so-called Brady Bill of 1993
that required licensed gun dealers to perform criminal
background checks on buyers.  License Tax  “He supported the Brady Bill, supported the gun ban,
increased taxes on gun licenses by 400 percent when he was in
the state of Massachusetts,” Santorum, who exited the race on
April 10, said while campaigning in Pennsylvania on April 4.  Romney, 65, also backed a ban on certain assault weapons in
a 1994 federal anti-crime bill. As governor, he signed
legislation that raised gun license fees from $25 to $100 to
help close a state budget deficit, while also extending license
durations to mitigate the increased cost, according to a Boston
Globe  report .  Santorum also spoke to the convention, and though he hasn’t
formally endorsed Romney, he praised him and promised to
campaign for Republicans this year.  “I pledge to you, even though I’m no longer in this race,
that I will be all in between now and November,” Santorum said.
“I will do everything I can to make sure we elect Republicans
and conservatives up and down the ticket.”  Beating Obama  Whatever concerns may exist among NRA members about Romney,
they pale in comparison to the group’s displeasure with Obama.
One of the NRA’s top objectives is to oust him from office.  Wayne LaPierre, the group’s executive vice president, told
yesterday’s crowd that “America as we know it will be on its
way to being lost forever” if Obama wins another term.  “When the sun goes down on Election Day,  Barack Obama  will
have us to thank for his defeat,” he said.  The opposition to Obama comes even though gun-control
advocates have expressed disappointment in his administration.  “We’re hoping that, should he be re-elected, he will take
a stand on this issue,” said Colleen Daley, executive director
of the  Illinois Council Against Handgun Violence , especially
given a  surge  in shooting deaths this year in his adopted
hometown of  Chicago .  Gingrich, who with U.S. Representative Ron Paul of  Texas 
are Romney’s last remaining challengers in the Republican race,
followed the presumptive nominee to the stage. Gingrich said the
world would be safer -- with fewer women raped and children
killed -- if more people were armed and that the NRA has been
too timid in promoting gun rights for others across the globe.  ‘Armed With Safety’  “We believe they can in fact protect themselves and they
can be armed with safety because they are in charge of their
life because God has made them sovereign, not the government,”
he said.  The NRA, which  began  as a grassroots organization dedicated
to teaching marksmanship, enters the 2012 election season as a
lobbying, merchandising and marketing machine that brings in
more than $200 million a year. From 2004 to 2010, the group’s
revenue from fundraising -- including gifts from gun makers who
benefit from its political activism -- grew twice as fast as its
income from members’ dues, according to NRA tax returns.  More than 50 firearms-related companies have given at least
$14.8 million to the Fairfax, Virginia-based group, according to
the NRA’s list for a donor program that began in 2005. That same
year, NRA lobbyists helped win passage of a federal law limiting
liability claims against gun makers. Former NRA President Sandy Froman  wrote  that it “saved the American gun industry from
bankruptcy.”  Gun maker  Sturm, Ruger & Co. Inc. (RGR) , of Southport,
 Connecticut , is among the manufacturers that have benefited from
NRA lobbying, including a decades-long effort in states for laws
allowing permits to carry concealed weapons.  Wisconsin  became
the 49th state to allow such licenses in July and  Illinois , the
last remaining state, is debating legislation now.  Romney will be away from the campaign trail much of the
weekend, except for fundraisers in Florida scheduled for April
15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in St. Louis at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  