-- Rona’s Lowest Value Makes Canadian Firm Takeover Bait: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2012-04-13T21:26:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/rona-s-lowest-value-makes-canadian-firm-takeover-bait-real-m-a.html
Rona Inc. (RON) , the home-improvement
retailer with the lowest market valuation in North America,
would give potential suitors the chance to profit as Canada’s
economy adds new homes and  jobs  at the fastest pace in more than
three years.  Rona, Canada’s biggest home-improvement chain, yesterday
was valued at a 26 percent  discount  to its net assets, making it
the only North American home-products retailer with a market
capitalization over $500 million to trade lower than book value,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. After increasing
competition sent the Boucherville, Quebec-based company’s  shares 
down 57 percent in the last five years, Rona was also the least
expensive of its rivals relative to earnings, the data show.  Lowe’s Cos. (LOW)  could be interested in acquiring Rona to expand
in the country and better compete with  Home Depot Inc. (HD) , said ABC
Funds, after Canadians started work last month on the most
housing units since 2008 and the economy added the most jobs in
42 months. The chain would also be attractive to private-equity
buyers, said  Aston Hill Financial Inc. (AHF)  While the C$1.4 billion
($1.4 billion) company says it isn’t for sale, Rona would fetch
C$15 a share in a takeover, or a 42 percent premium compared to
yesterday’s close, ABC said.  “Rona is definitely cheap,” Richard Fortin, Calgary-based
co-manager of the Bissett Small Cap Fund at Bissett Investment
Management, which oversees C$13.7 billion including shares of
Rona, said in a telephone interview. “If Lowe’s were to acquire
Rona, it’d gain a significant presence in  Canada  overnight. The
merger math works quite well at current prices.”  Today’s Trading  Rona’s shares climbed 2.4 percent to C$10.85 in Toronto
today. The gain was the  second-biggest  among the 253 companies
in Canada’s benchmark Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Lowe’s Chief Financial Officer  Robert Hull  told Reuters
last week that his company is open to “all options” if Rona
were to put itself up for sale and called it “a very
interesting company.”  “Lowe’s has stated its intention to expand in Canada to as
many as 100 stores,” Julie Yenichek, a spokeswoman for
Mooresville, North Carolina-based Lowe’s, said in an e-mail
yesterday. “We cannot speculate about how we may choose to grow
our business in Canada.”  “We are not looking to sell,” Michelle Laberge, a
spokeswoman for Rona, said in a phone interview. “We haven’t
been approached at this time,” by potential suitors, she said.  The company is focused on executing its 2012 business plan
and will soon be updating investors on its progress, according
to Laberge. Rona said on Feb. 23 that it will be introducing a
new website and decreasing the size of the sales area in some of
its “big-box stores” as part of its 2012 business plan.  Home Depot, Lowe’s  Rona, which sells everything from paint to power tools and
flower pots at almost 800 stores across Canada, has been trying
to fend off increased competition from Home Depot and Lowe’s.  Atlanta-based Home Depot, the world’s largest home-
improvement retailer, has opened  180 stores  in Canada since
entering the market in  1994 , according to its web site. Lowe’s
opened its first Canadian stores in 2007 in the Toronto area and
had  31 locations  in the country as of this February, a filing
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission showed.  Rona reported a net loss of C$78 million in 2011 as its
results deteriorated after four straight declines in annual
profit. In the last five years,  Rona’s shares  slid 57 percent to
C$10.60 through yesterday, the biggest drop among consumer
discretionary stocks in the  S&P/TSX Composite Index. (SPTSX)  Home Depot
rose  33 percent  and Lowe’s gained 0.7 percent in the same
period, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Relative Value  The slump left Rona trading at  0.74 times  the value of its
assets minus liabilities, compared with an average price-to-book
ratio of 3.5 for home product store owners in  North America  with
market values higher than $500 million, the data show.  With its equity and net debt valued at  5.3 times  earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, Rona was
also the cheapest among its competitors and valued at half the
industry average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “As Home Depot and Lowe’s expand their presence in Canada,
they’re taking share away from Rona,” Brian Huen, a Toronto-
based managing partner at Red Sky Capital Management Ltd., said.
An acquirer could get Rona “at a reasonable price,” he said.  Rona has grown cheaper even as Canada’s recovery from the
worst global financial crisis since the 1930s strengthened.  Housing Starts  Data this week from Ottawa-based Canada Mortgage & Housing
Corp. showed the annual pace of  housing starts  rose 5 percent to
215,600 in March, the highest level since October 2008. The
country also added 82,300 jobs last month,  Statistics Canada 
said last week. That’s the most since September 2008, the month
that New York-based Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed.  Canadian executives are more positive on sales growth than
at any time in  two years , the Bank of Canada’s quarterly survey
showed this week.  U.S. retailers facing saturation in their own country will
increasingly search for ways to expand in Canada because of its
proximity to the U.S. and the similarities in consumer behavior,
according to  Irwin Michael , a Toronto-based money manager at ABC
Funds, which oversees about C$1 billion and owns more than 3
million shares of Rona.  “The borders are breaking down,” Michael said. “We’re
seeing more and more U.S. companies come here to Canada. We
basically watch the same TV, eat the same food. We’re familiar
with all your stores.”  Lowe’s is  looking  to gain scale in Canada,  Robert Niblock ,
the company’s chief executive officer, said Dec. 6 at its annual
meeting with analysts and investors.  ‘Fairly Dominant’  Buying Rona would help Lowe’s accomplish that by giving it
a “fairly dominant position” in  Quebec , and the combined
company could lower costs and boost profitability, ABC Funds’
Michael said. Rona has more than 200  stores  in Quebec, according
to its website.  “While management has indicated the company is not for
sale, the reality is that control is in the marketplace,”
Michael said. “That statement by the Lowe’s CFO, whether
they’re interested or not, it certainly was a catalyst to get
people to say ‘Hey, this stock is cheap.’”  Rona would fetch at least C$15 a share if it were acquired,
or “just slightly above” its C$14.33 in book value per share,
ABC Funds estimated. That would be a 42 percent premium to
 yesterday’s close , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  While Lowe’s management may need to stay focused on
competing with Home Depot in the U.S. right now, Rona would make
sense as a target for a private-equity firm that could try to
run the company better and improve margins, or break it apart
and sell off pieces, said Jeff Burchell, a Toronto-based  money
manager  at Aston Hill, which oversees about C$5.5 billion.  Operating Margins  Rona, the only North American home products retailer with a
market value of more than $500 million that was unprofitable in
the last 12 months, earned less than 4 cents in operating income
per dollar of its  C$4.8 billion  in sales in the past year, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s less than half the median 8.3
percent operating margin for the group, the data show.  A private-equity firm would also be getting a company that
trades at 10 times its cash from operations after deducting
capital expenses, the cheapest  free cash flow  multiple among its
peers, the data show.  “Lowe’s is really focused on the internal business in the
U.S.,” Burchell said. “For Lowe’s to take on the whole Rona
and do a hostile takeover for it, that sucks up a lot of
management time. Private equity, that would be pretty
interesting. That’s where you could probably make sense of the
whole thing.”  ‘Unsustainable’  Concern that the Canadian housing market will weaken could
deter potential buyers, said  David Cockfield , a Toronto-based
managing director at Northland Wealth Management, which oversees
about C$200 million.  Policy makers, including Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty ,
have said parts of Canada’s housing market have become
overvalued as households add to record debt levels. Household
spending in Canada is increasingly driven by “stimulative
financing conditions” and higher home values, Bank of Canada
Governor  Mark Carney  said in an April 2 speech. Such trends are
“unsustainable over the medium term,” he said.  “The housing market is running at probably what we would
consider an unsustainable high,” Northland Wealth’s Cockfield
said in a telephone interview.  ‘Wait and See’  While Cockfield also said it could be difficult to convince
Rona to sell, the company may not have a choice if the stock
continues to drop and increased competition further erodes
margins, according to Sachin Shah, a special situations and
merger arbitrage strategist for Tullett Prebon Plc in  Jersey
City ,  New Jersey .  Rona “saying ‘our standalone strategy is going to deliver
more value than doing a deal’ is only going to work if they’re
actually able to do that,” Shah said in a phone interview.
“Shareholders have been waiting two years and they’re not
happy. It’s just been a downward trajectory and so Lowe’s sees
the intrinsic value here. We’re going to have to wait and see,
but that wait and see has a limitation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 