-- Rousseff Boosts Pressure on Brazil Banks to Cut Loan Rates
-- B y   M a r i a   L u i z a   R a b e l l o
-- 2012-04-13T17:41:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/rousseff-boosts-pressure-on-brazil-banks-to-cut-loan-rates-1-.html
Brazilian banks must reduce the
interest they charge for loans to help bring rates to
international levels, Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff  said.  Banks in Latin America’s largest economy raised average
consumer borrowing costs to 45.4 percent in February from 45.1
percent in January, the central bank said March 27. In the U.S.,
 personal loans  averaged 9.52 percent on April 12, according to
Bankrate.com.  “I’ll speak about the positive, the need to bring our
 interest rates , including spreads, to international levels of
the cost of capital,” Rousseff said in a speech at the National
Industry Confederation in Brasilia today.  The Rousseff administration has been urging banks to cut
their spreads in tandem with the nation’s  benchmark  rate, which
has dropped 275 basis points since August to 9.75 percent. To
pressure private banks to help bring down spreads that averaged
28.4 percent in February, state-owned lenders  Banco do Brasil SA (BBAS3) 
and Caixa Economica Federal said this month they will cut their
rates, in Caixa’s case by as much as 88 percent.  Falling interest rates have been slow to trickle down to
consumers, said  Solange Srour , chief economist at BNY Mellon ARX
Investimentos. Retail  sales  fell 0.5 percent in February, down
from an increase of 3.3 percent in January, the national
statistics agency said today in  Rio de Janeiro .  Murilo Portugal, president of Brazil’s private bank
association known as Febraban, said on April 10 that costs
including high reserve requirements and taxes represent 70
percent of bank spreads. Finance Minister  Guido Mantega 
responded by saying the nation’s banks are profitable and have
ample room to cut spreads.  Brazil  needs to reduce its tax burden without putting in
jeopardy its public accounts, Rousseff said today.  “We need to create conditions for our country to have tax
breaks that don’t put at risk the macroeconomic situation but
that we know are necessary because Brazil today has tax
structures that are heavy for sustainable growth,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Luiza Rabello in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  