-- Royal KPN Said to Weigh Sale of BASE Belgian Mobile Unit
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 2012-04-13T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/royal-kpn-said-to-weigh-sale-of-base-belgian-mobile-unit.html
Royal KPN NV (KPN) , the Netherlands’
largest phone company, is considering a sale of its Belgian
mobile-phone unit that could fetch 1.8 billion euros ($2.4
billion), according to people familiar with the situation.  The BASE unit, Belgium’s third-largest mobile operator,
will probably attract interest from private equity firms such as
Apax Partners LLP, the people said, declining to be identified
as the plans are private. Deliberations are at an early stage,
and no formal auction process has been established, the people
said. Initial information may be sent to potential buyers in
May, one of the people said.  Europe ’s biggest telecommunications operators are shedding
assets and slashing jobs as they grapple with stagnant revenue
and the cost of building out next-generation networks to handle
the data demand of devices like  Apple Inc.’s (AAPL)  iPhone.  France
Telecom SA (FTE) , the country’s former phone monopoly, in December
agreed to sell its Swiss mobile-phone business to Apax for about
$2.1 billion after the buyout firm beat rivals including EQT
Partners AB and Providence Equity Partners Inc.  A spokesman for KPN declined to comment on any potential
sale.  KPN, based in The Hague, said in January that it would
accelerate a restructuring program that will cost between 4,000
and 5,000 jobs after it predicted lower profit and cash flow
this year. Its shares have declined 17.6 percent since the
beginning of 2012, compared with a fall of 3.4 percent in the
Bloomberg Europe Telecommunications Index, as KPN struggles to
maintain profits and invest in its domestic network.  New Competition  The company, which is still increasing its dividend payout
in 2012, may face new competition as the Dutch government
reserves some space for new market entrants in an upcoming
auction of mobile frequencies. The arrival this year of a fourth
full-service mobile operator in  France , Iliad SA, has eroded
sales for larger competitors.  KPN and  France Telecom  aren’t the only European phone
companies struggling as consumers depend more on services like
the Skype Internet calling software and WhatsApp, a free
instant-messaging client.  Telefonica SA (TEF) ,  Spain ’s largest phone company, in December
cut its dividend for the first time in a decade, citing
“significantly” changed market conditions.  Deutsche Telekom
AG (DTE) , which last year failed to sell its U.S. business to AT&T
Inc. after regulators opposed the $39 billion deal, in February
forecast a continued slide in profit in 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  