-- Russia Says Iran Needs ‘Real Incentives’ to Resolve Nuclear Row
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-04-13T13:20:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/russia-says-iran-needs-real-incentives-to-resolve-nuclear-row.html
World powers should offer  Iran 
“real incentives” to allow full monitoring of its nuclear
program rather than demanding an immediate end to uranium
enrichment, Russia’s top official at talks in Istanbul said.  The first negotiations in 15 months between Iran and the
five permanent members of the  United Nations Security Council  --
Britain,  China ,  France , Russia and the U.S. -- plus  Germany ,
represent an “urgent” chance to counter the threat of military
action, Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov said.  “We see a very clear tendency toward escalating
tensions,” Ryabkov said in a telephone interview during a
stopover in Munich en route to Istanbul today after attending a
Group of Eight foreign ministers’ meeting in  Washington . “The
major way forward” is to broker an accord between Iran and the
 International Atomic Energy Agency  to allay suspicions it’s
seeking nuclear weapons in return for economic incentives and
security guarantees, he said.  Overshadowing tomorrow’s round of talks are threats from
both  Israel  and the U.S. to stage military action to stop what
they say are Iran’s advancing efforts to develop nuclear weapons
capabilities. Iran, which faces a ban on oil exports to the
European Union from July 1, insists its atomic activities are in
line with its Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty rights.  A Russian proposal made last year for a “step-by-step”
solution to the Iranian nuclear dispute under which the Persian
Gulf state would be rewarded gradually with an easing of
sanctions for its cooperation with the IAEA is still “on the
table,” Ryabkov said.  ‘Significantly Softened’  While  Russia  is concerned at the expansion of  Iran’s
nuclear program , in violation of UN Security Council
resolutions, the Iranian leadership has “significantly softened
its rhetoric recently” and is more focused on dialogue, the
diplomat said.  Iran’s growing stockpile of 20 percent enriched uranium may
be purified into atomic-bomb material in a matter of months,
according to Olli Heinonen, the IAEA’s former top inspector who
made more than 20 trips to Iranian nuclear facilities.  Russia believes the immediate task is to secure Iran’s
agreement to a deal with the IAEA that would enable the Vienna-
based agency to verify the “exclusively peaceful nature of the
Iranian nuclear program,” said Ryabkov.  In return, the six world powers should offer “real
incentives so that Iran feels its situation would be improved if
this arrangement is reached and concluded.”  Negotiating Incentives  Iran, which has faced four sets of UN Security Council
sanctions, has been further squeezed by U.S. and EU financial
and energy sanctions. The exact nature of the incentives would
be a matter for negotiation in Istanbul, and could include
international assistance in developing nuclear energy as well as
security guarantees and other measures, Ryabkov said.  Iran stands to benefit financially from its first nuclear
reactor, the Russian-built 1,000-megawatt Bushehr plant,
according to the  World Nuclear Association . It will free up the
equivalent of 11 million barrels of oil or 1.8 billion cubic
meters of gas per year for export, the London-based group said
in a March report.  “At some point this suspension would be very helpful,”
Ryabkov said, referring to demands for a halt to Iranian  uranium
enrichment , which can be used for both generating electricity
and making nuclear warheads.  ‘Rebuilding Trust’  “But I would also say that the foremost task, the foremost
objective of these negotiations that start tomorrow should be
rebuilding trust that is almost completely lacking,” he said,
urging the two sides to commit to pursue talks within a given
timeframe to avoid another lapse in negotiations.  The previous round of talks, also in Istanbul, ended
without agreement in January 2011.  The tentative cease-fire in the more than year-old uprising
in  Syria  after pressure by Russia on its Soviet-era ally shows
that diplomacy and not military action is the best way to
resolve conflicts, including over Iran, Ryabkov said.  “The Russian side has continuously insisted on further
diplomatic and political efforts to be applied to both of these
situations,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  