-- Safeway Has Biggest Weekly Gain Since 2009 on Speculation
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-04-13T20:27:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/safeway-rallies-most-since-2009-on-possible-takeover-spec.html
Safeway Inc. (SWY)  had its biggest weekly
rally since 2009 on speculation about a possible acquisition
after the grocery chain changed payout mechanisms for executives
in the event of a takeover.  The stock  rose  2.5 percent to $21.19 at the close, the
second-biggest gain on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. Safeway,
based in Pleasanton,  California , has advanced 7.5 percent this
week, the biggest increase for that period since October 2009.  Safeway adopted a “double-trigger vesting acceleration”
that may require executives to stay at the company to get their
full vested payout if it is bought, according to a March 28
filing. The change, along with share buybacks and the promotion
of the chief financial officer, may mean Safeway is considering
a “corporate action,” Kenneth Goldman, an analyst at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. who rates the shares neutral, wrote in a note today.  Safeway is an unlikely candidate for a buyout by a private-
equity firm because of its pension liabilities, Edward J. Kelly,
an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG who rates the shares
neutral, said in a note yesterday.  On April 9, the operator of more than 1,600 stores in the
U.S. and  Canada  announced that Chief Financial Officer Robert L. Edwards would assume the role of president.  Strategic Initiatives  The expansion of duties “provides me an opportunity to
concentrate more of my time on innovation and a range of
strategic initiatives,” Chief Executive Officer Steven A. Burd
said in a statement at the time.  Revenue at the second-largest U.S. grocery chain rose 6.3
percent to $43.6 billion last year. It has a market
capitalization of about $5.7 billion.  Melissa Plaisance, a Safeway spokeswoman, declined to
comment on takeover speculation. Regarding the double-trigger
vesting mechanism, she said that Safeway “has been tracking
best practices in corporate governance for quite some time.”  “This is something that has developed at a number of
companies, and we think it’s one of the best practices out
there,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  