-- Saints Owner Benson Buys NBA Hornets; Kings’ Arena Deal Stalled
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n   a n d   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-04-14T04:01:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/saints-owner-tom-benson-buys-nba-hornets-times-picayune-reports.html
The owner of the National Football
League’s Saints has agreed to buy the  New Orleans  Hornets from
the  National Basketball Association , while an arena deal to keep
the Kings in Sacramento collapsed.  NBA owners, meeting in  New York , also had their first
lengthy discussion about selling advertising on uniforms, and
approved a move by the Nets to  Brooklyn  from New Jersey.  New Orleans Saints owner Tom Benson will buy the Hornets,
which the league’s 30 owners purchased from  George Shinn  in
December 2010. The deal is worth $338 million, according to a
person with direct knowledge of the transaction, who was granted
anonymity because the NBA didn’t make the sale terms public.  “The Hornets are so important to New Orleans, I would
support them without the ownership of the Saints,” Benson said.
“It’s a very, very important part of our community.”  The deal fulfills a league commitment to New Orleans in the
wake of Hornets woes including a two-season evacuation to
 Oklahoma City  after  Hurricane Katrina , poor home attendance,
revenue streams reliant on government subsidies, and most
recently, a public relations headache stemming from the trade of
All-Star  Chris Paul .  “We funded losses last year and this year the team was a
break-even proposition,” Commissioner  David Stern  said. “As we
constructed the purchase price, it included making us whole, so
we feel pretty good. We weren’t in it to make a profit. We
wanted to hold it together for the perfect purchaser.”  Paul was traded to  Los Angeles Clippers  on Dec. 14, six
days after the NBA rejected a deal that would have sent him to
the  Los Angeles Lakers , who share the same arena.  Trade Veto  Stern’s decision to veto the trade to the Lakers, which
came one day after the league ratified a 10-year labor deal with
its players’ union, drew criticism from people who said the
commissioner was succumbing to pressure from team owners who
didn’t want to see Paul on the large-market Lakers, who won
consecutive league championships in 2009 and 2010.  With the league playing a lockout-shortened 66-game
schedule this season, the Hornets’ 17-42 record is the worst in
the Western Conference and the third-worst in the NBA.  The Kings’ owners, the Maloof family, and the city of
 Sacramento  announced on Feb. 27 that they had reached an
agreement on a $400 million arena that would keep the team from
relocating. The city would contribute about $250 million for the
arena, which would open in 2015, Gavin Maloof said at the time.  The Maloofs and Sacramento Mayor  Kevin Johnson , a former
NBA player, have disputed terms of the agreement in recent weeks,
leading to its collapse yesterday.  ‘Killed Deal’  “If the mayor says he’s not negotiating, then he’s killed
the deal and it’s over,” George Maloof said at a televised news
conference in  Manhattan  after making a presentation to the
league’s owners yesterday.  Johnson responded at a news conference that followed a two-
hour meeting between the two sides.  “They are now saying they don’t want to do the deal which
is essentially saying they don’t want be in Sacramento,”
Johnson said.  Asked where they go from here, Johnson said, “I don’t
really have that answer right now.”  The agreement was non-binding and Stern -- while applauding
the city’s efforts -- said it was always the Maloofs’ right to
walk away from it.  “I think it’s fair for the Maloofs to say they don’t want
to do it,” Stern said. “If they had done that a little simpler,
a little earlier and a little more directly it could have saved
a lot of angst and trouble.”  The collapsed talks leave the future home of the franchise
in doubt. Stern said the team is scheduled to stay at Power
Balance Pavilion in Sacramento next season.  No Move Planned  Maloof said he’s not planning to move the franchise, and
also suggested renovating Power Balance Pavilion, rather than
financially strapping the city and ownership with a new arena.  Johnson said the Maloofs’ sudden interest in renovating
their current venue contradicted what they have said over the
past several years, and it would be up to the team’s owners to
complete renovations themselves if they chose that path.  “If it was up to me, there was absolutely no way that we,
as a city, would invest in that building,” Johnson said,
pointing out the amount of work that would be needed and the
arena’s location. “I want Sacramento to remain an NBA city. I
don’t want our city to lose its leverage and I don’t want our
city to be held hostage.”  Jersey Ads  The league owners yesterday also discussed allowing ads on
team jerseys, which no major sports league does in the U.S. It
is common elsewhere in the world.  Included in the presentations were ad mockups on jersey-
clad mannequins and an examination of how other sports leagues,
such as those in  Europe , profit from the revenue stream.  “We told our owners it was not something we would consider
doing for next season but something we should consider for
season after next,” said Adam Silver, the league’s deputy
commissioner.  Owners also approved the  New Jersey  Nets’ move to the
Brooklyn borough of New York next season, and their name change
to the Brooklyn Nets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  