-- San Francisco Gasoline Advances After Fire at Conoco Refinery
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-04-13T20:52:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/san-francisco-gasoline-advances-after-fire-at-conoco-refinery.html
California-blend gasoline in  San
Francisco  strengthened to the highest level against futures in
four weeks after  ConocoPhillips (COP)  shut a sulfur recovery unit at
the  Rodeo (CPACCRUD)  refinery in Northern California.  Conoco closed the unit at the 128,000-barrel-a-day plant
north of San Francisco after a fire broke out there overnight,
Randy Sawyer, Contra Costa County’s chief hazardous materials
officer, said in an e-mail.  The fire was extinguished “within
a few minutes,” said  Rich Johnson , a Conoco spokesman at
company headquarters in Houston.  California-blend gasoline, or Carbob, in  San Francisco (MOGSD85P) 
Carbob advanced for the second day, jumping 7.5 cents to a 3-
cent-a-gallon premium against futures traded on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  at 3:58 p.m. East Coast time, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the highest level for the
fuel in San Francisco since March 16.  Johnson declined to provide the status of the sulfur unit.
“Refinery operations are otherwise routine at this time,” he
said in an e-mail.  Los Angeles (MOGLDB85)  Carbob also rose for a second day, by 1.25
cents to a discount of 2.25 cents a gallon against futures.  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  will perform maintenance at the 97,000-barrel-
a-day  Wilmington (SHWCCRUD)  oil refinery in  Southern California  that may
cause the plant to flare from April 16 through April 18, Tina Barbee, a spokeswoman at company headquarters in  San Antonio ,
said in an e-mailed statement.  Conoco yesterday reported a fault at the sulfuric acid
plant in the Wilmington section of its 139,000-barrel-a-day  Los
Angeles (CPLACRUD)  refinery April 11.  “A duct on the sulfuric acid plant malfunctioned due to
unknown reasons,” the company said in a filing with the
California Emergency Management Agency. “An investigation is
underway to determine the cause of the malfunction.”  Johnson declined to comment on the incident.  California-blend, or CARB, diesel in  Los Angeles (DIEILCAD)  climbed
0.5 cent to a premium of 9 cents a gallon against Nymex heating
oil futures. The same fuel in  San Francisco (DIEISCAD)  rose 0.75 cent to a
premium of 9.25 cents.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in  Portland (MOGHD87P) ,  Oregon ,
increased 1.5 cents to a 1.5-cent premium to gasoline futures.  Low-sulfur diesel in  Portland (DIEISTPD)  was unchanged at a 31-cent
premium versus heating oil futures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  