-- SAP Predicts Rising Software Revenue in Second Quarter
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-04-13T16:20:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/sap-profit-rises-on-sales-of-mobile-applications-analytics-1-.html
SAP AG (SAP)  predicted software sales
growth will accelerate in the second quarter after it revamped
its North American sales operations and demand for analytics and
mobile applications is picking up in  Europe .  Revenue from software and software-related services will
increase 14 to 16 percent at constant currencies after a 10
percent gain in the first quarter, the largest maker of
business-management software said today.  SAP is benefitting from demand for applications that allow
consumers and companies to access data via smartphones and
tablet computers. Walldorf, Germany-based SAP said today it
changed its North American operations to tailor sales teams
around specific industry groups after the previous structure,
which had grouped clients by geography and industry, hurt first-
quarter revenue.  “We adjusted the leadership team where we needed to,” Co-
Chief Executive Officer  Bill McDermott  said on a conference call
today. “Some of the deals that didn’t happen in the first
quarter have already happened,” he said, adding that the
company’s pipeline is “very strong.”  U.S. Revamp  Robert Courteau, president for  North America , left the
company at his own request after 15 months in the job, SAP said
last week. Robert Enslin, head of global sales who previously
held the post, assumed Courteau’s responsibilities until a
replacement is found. The U.S. business accounted for 26 percent
of SAP’s revenue last year, according to Bloomberg data.
Software revenue in the Americas region declined 4 percent in
the first quarter.  SAP declined 1.4 percent to 49.94 euros while  Germany ’s
benchmark DAX Index dropped 2.4 percent. The stock has risen 22
percent this year, compared with a 12 percent gain for the DAX.  First-quarter operating profit climbed to 834 million euros
($1.1 billion), missing an 866 million-euro average estimate in
a Bloomberg survey of analysts. Software sales growth, an
indication of future revenue, slowed to 1 percent from 17
percent in the fourth quarter. Oracle’s new license revenue grew
7 percent to $2.37 billion in the quarter that ended Feb. 29.  ‘Skinned Knee’  “We characterize this as a ‘skinned knee’ and not a broken
leg and expect the company to be back on track in the second
quarter,” Nomura’s analysts said in a note today. “Issues do
not appear to be so much macro as company-specific execution and
follows a very robust fourth quarter.”  In the current quarter, software revenue is set to grow by
15 to 20 percent, SAP said.  “The fact that they’re so upbeat on the coming months
outweighs any difficulties they may have had in the past
quarter,” Markus Friebel, an analyst at Independent Research
GmbH in  Frankfurt , said via phone.  Markets across Europe, the  Middle East  and  Africa  will have
“robust” growth in the current quarter after some countries
had a “slow” start to the year with the exception of Germany
which was “off to a blistering start,” McDermott said.  McDermott and co-CEO Jim Hagemann Snabe aim to lift sales
to more than 20 billion euros by 2015, compared with 14.2
billion euros last year. To get there and keep up with rival
Oracle, the executives have accelerated the pace of SAP’s
acquisitions, adding mobile-software and database provider
Sybase Inc. in 2010 and cloud-computing specialist
SuccessFactors Inc. this year.  Real-Time Analytics  The company today reiterated its full-year forecast. SAP on
Jan. 25 said that 2012 operating profit, based on the non-IFRS
accounting standard and excluding currency swings, will be in a
range of 5.05 billion euros to 5.25 billion euros.  Siemens AG (SIE) , Exxon Mobil Corp. and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  are
among more than 176,000 companies that use SAP’s applications to
order goods, plan inventory levels and manage sales. SAP also
provides software for the order fulfillment system behind Apple
Inc.’s iTunes download system.  McDermott and Snabe want to expand SAP’s customer base from
information-technology staff in back offices to include
salespeople wielding mobile devices and smaller clients more
willing to adopt on-demand applications.  The company this week said it plans to spend almost $500
million to lure customers to its Hana data-processing product,
challenging  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ’s dominance in the $22.5 billion
database market.  Hana is designed to quickly analyze vast caches of sales
and operational information, as well as unstructured data such
as e-mail and social media. It relies on computer memory, rather
than disk drives, to speed up the process.  Doubling Hana Sales  Sales of the Hana technology totaled 160 million euros in
2011, beating SAP’s own forecast by 60 percent. McDermott in
January forecast that revenue from Hana products will more than
double this year.  The company will probably continue to benefit from a one-
year head-start in that product category compared with Oracle,
Donald Feinberg, an analyst at Gartner Inc. in  Sao Paulo , said
in January.  Oracle CEO  Larry Ellison  in October unveiled the so-called
Exalytics Intelligence Machine, which also analyzes information
within dynamic random access memory. Sanjay Poonen, SAP’s
president of global solutions, at the time said Oracle’s
approach requires clients to buy and maintain more hardware than
a competing SAP system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  