-- Sarkozy Demands Crackdown on Guns in Corsica Amid Crime Spree
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-04-13T14:26:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/sarkozy-demands-crackdown-on-guns-in-corsica-amid-crime-spree.html
French security forces will show
“zero tolerance” on gun possession in Corsica after a flare-up
of violence on the Mediterranean island, President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said.  “I understand the attachment of Corsicans to hunting but
there are guns in their possession that are not tolerable,” he
said after a meeting in Ajaccio with Interior Minister Claude Gueant, Justice Minister Michel Mercier and local police
officials. “There is a level of arms possession in Corsica that
doesn’t come close to anywhere in France.”  Corsica, with a population of 300,000, has seen six murders
so far this year -- including three in the last 15 days -- and
22 for all of last year, a homicide rate seven times that of
mainland France. The murders have been linked to score-settling
among local criminal gangs, rather than to the island’s on-
again-off-again separatist movement, according to local
newspapers such as Corse-Matin.  Sarkozy said the distinction isn’t always clear. “It’s not
as if on the one side are greedy criminals only after money and
on the other, assassins with convictions,” he said.  Hunting rifles are legal in  France  for those with permits.
Handguns and automatic weapons are available on the black market
and are used increasingly by gangs in Corsica and Marseille. The
island’s murder rate hit a peak in 2001 with 55 deaths.  “What has happened in the past 15 days in Corsica is
intolerable,” Sarkozy said in an interview with Corse-Matin
today. “The state will never deal with those who carry out
criminal violence. I will not allow Corsica to live a new wave
of violence.”  Sarkozy, who is in Corsica campaigning for re-election,
reverted to being president for the meeting with Gueant and
Mercier. He holds a rally this evening in Ajaccio, the island’s
biggest city.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Ajaccio, Corsica, at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  