-- Satellites to China Fuel Dispute Between Thales, U.S.
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-04-13T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/satellites-to-china-fuel-dispute-between-thales-u-s-.html
A four-year dispute between the
State Department and a unit of  Thales SA (HO)  over the export of
American technology to  China  risks delaying the launch of new
commercial communications satellites in the U.S.  The State Department is pursuing “all available options,”
including administrative penalties, to compel Thales Alenia
Space to disclose any U.S.-made parts in eight communications
satellites it sold to China, Assistant Secretary for Legislative
Affairs David Adams told Congress.  The department’s options include withholding licenses the
company needs as prime contractor on a $3 billion program to
build 81 satellites for  Iridium Communications Inc. (IRDM) , according
to Marco Caceres, a military and civilian space analyst. He said
that could postpone Iridium’s plans to launch the first of the
new satellites in 36 months and possibly force the company to
find a U.S. contractor to take over the program.  “If they delay it by six months, Iridium needs to do it
sooner rather than later,” Caceres of the Fairfax, Virginia-
based Teal Group, said in an interview.  A denial of licenses would be likely to affect satellite
construction because “Iridium would be barred from providing
technical information regarding the constellation to Thales
Alenia,” said John Ordway, an export licensing attorney with
Berliner, Corcoran & Rowe LLP in  Washington .  The State Department hasn’t elaborated on the options
referred to by Adams in his letter to lawmakers on March 15.
Thales, owned 67 percent by Thales SA of Neuilly-Sur-Seine,
France, and 33 percent by  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  of  Rome , indicated it
doesn’t expect troubles for its Iridium contract.  Thales Response  Thales Alenia has declined to provide the information
demanded by the State Department and has said it used no U.S.
technology that is restricted for export in the Spacebus 4000-
series  communications  satellites it provided to China.  The company “is continuing its efforts to assure the State
Department it is compliant with” the regulations “to ensure
all license applications will continue to be treated normally,”
Edgar Buckley, a senior adviser to Thales Alenia, said in an e-
mail.  The State Department inquiry is “unrelated to Iridium,”
Liz DeCastro, a spokeswoman for the McLean, Virginia-based
satellite operator, said in an e-mail.  Iridium is “working to ensure Iridium NEXT is not
impacted, as there would be serious safety-of-life issues in
emergencies and availability of our system in national
emergencies,” she said of the satellites. “I believe this is
understood, and our specific issues are trying to be
addressed,” she said. “We’re confident they will be.”  Mobile Phones, Tablets  The new satellites will provide higher speed and expanded
capabilities for satellite voice and data communications
equipment as well as mobile phones, tablets and laptops with Wi-
Fi capability, she said.  The State Department has probed Thales Alenia’s Chinese
satellites since at least May 2008, according to a 2011
“information paper” the department provided to the Senate and
House foreign affairs panels. The department has sought
information to assess whether the company violated the U.S.
International Traffic In Arms  Regulations , which govern the
export of sensitive U.S. technology that may have military uses.  The department approved about 60 Thales Alenia Space
licenses valued at $42 million for hardware and technology used
in the Spacebus 3000 and 4000 satellite series from 1999 to
2008, according to the department document.  Refusal the Issue  The dispute appears to turn on Thales Alenia’s refusal to
provide the requested data rather than State Department concerns
that the company may have given China access to U.S. technology
posing a security risk, Caceres said.  “That’s the big issue,” he said. “They’ve had four years
to come up with a list. What are they hiding?”  Gregory Schulte, deputy assistant secretary of defense for
space policy, told a House Armed Services Committee panel on
March 9, “We know that the State Department is investigating
that case.”  In declining to provide a list of U.S. parts, Thales has
cited a 1980 French law prohibiting the release of any
information that “would cause prejudice to the essential
economic interests of  France ,” Adams wrote in a March 15 letter
to lawmakers.  The State Department doesn’t agree with the company’s
interpretation, and “French officials have noted they do not
believe the provision of such a list will violate the statute,”
Adams said.  Contacts With France  Thales Alenia “is aware there have been contacts between”
the U.S. and French governments and “hopes these will help
resolve any outstanding concerns,” Buckley said.  Adams was responding to inquiries about Thales Alenia by
three Republican lawmakers in a Dec. 20 letter to Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton .  “When does the department expect to take a final action,
which may include a denial of any licenses for the export of
technology?” House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, House Armed Services Committee member  Michael Turner  of Ohio and House Appropriations member Frank Wolf of
 Virginia  wrote.  Turner said this week he remains dissatisfied because the
State Department “has not taken swift action to enforce these
laws.”  “The Thales case has been going on for at least four
years, involving the transfer of U.S. space technology to a
French company that the State Department suspects was illegally
transferred to China,” Turner said in an e-mailed statement on
April 10. “If not for Congress shining the spotlight on this
case, it’s possible it would never have been pursued.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  