-- Saudi Arabia Determined to See Oil Price Drop, Al-Naimi Says
-- B y   S a n g i m   H a n   a n d   Y e e   K a i   P i n
-- 2012-04-13T02:51:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/saudi-arabia-determined-to-see-oil-price-drop-al-naimi-says-1-.html
Saudi Arabia , the world’s biggest
oil exporter, is not happy with current crude prices and is
determined to see lower levels, Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi said.  The kingdom is working toward its goal of seeing prices
drop by highlighting there’s no shortage of supply, al-Naimi
said in a statement in  Seoul  today. Stockpiles held by consumer
nations are rising and Saudi Arabia is producing 10 million
barrels a day, he said. That’s close to the fastest rate in at
least 31 years, official data shows.  “We are seeing a prolonged period of high oil prices,”
al-Naimi said. “We are not happy about it.” Fundamentally, the
oil market remains balanced and there is no lack of supply,
he said.  Benchmark Brent oil futures have risen 13 percent this year
on concern tension over  Iran ’s nuclear program will disrupt
exports from the  Middle East . The contract for May settlement on
the ICE Futures Europe exchange was at $121.19 a barrel today.
Inventories in the U.S., the world’s largest oil consumer, have
climbed to 365.2 million barrels, the highest for  this time of
year  since 1990, an Energy Department report this week showed.  “Inventories in Saudi Arabia and around the world are
full,” al-Naimi said, reiterating remarks he made last month in
Doha. “Our Rotterdam inventory is full, our Sidi Kerir facility
is full, our Okinawa facility is full.”  Stockpiles  Global oil markets are better supplied for the first time
since 2009, the  International Energy Agency , the energy adviser
to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development,
said in its monthly report yesterday.  Saudi Arabia has invested “a great deal” to sustain its
production capability and will use spare capacity to meet any
additional required volumes, said al-Naimi. The country has the
ability to produce 12.5 million barrels a day, he said.  “The story is one of plenty,” said the minister. “Supply
is not the problem.”  U.S.  oil prices  may fall next week on speculation
negotiations between Iran and world powers over the Persian Gulf
nation’s nuclear program will reduce tension, a Bloomberg News
survey of 33 analysts and traders showed.  Brent futures traded above $128 a barrel last month as Iran
threatened to shut the Strait of Hormuz, a transit route for a
fifth of the world’s crude, in retaliation against international
sanctions. The European Union plans to ban the transportation,
purchase, financing and insurance of Iranian oil from July 1.  ‘Positive Strides’  “Saudi Arabia does not control the price,” al-Naimi said.
“It sells its crude oil according to international prices.”  Iran, the second-largest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, pumped 3.39 million barrels a day
in March, according to a Bloomberg survey of producers and
analysts. That’s the  slowest rate  since June 2002.  Other OPEC members, such as Libya, Iraq and  Angola , are
taking “positive strides forward” in increasing output,
according to al-Naimi. The group has 12 members.  Supplies are coming on stream from  Canada  and the U.S., he
said. Shipments are also being contributed from  Russia , South
America,  Kazakhstan  and Azerbaijan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sangim Han in Seoul at 
 sihan@bloomberg.net ;
Yee Kai Pin in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  