-- Scene Last Night: JPMorgan’s Bisignano, Debra Messing
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-04-13T15:04:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/scene-last-night-jpmorgan-s-bisignano-debra-messing-dr-john.html
Frank Bisignano smiled as he met
actress Debra Messing last night at the  Brooklyn Academy of
Music’s  150th Anniversary Gala.  “Are you from  Brooklyn ?” Bisignano, a native of the
borough’s Mill Basin, asked. Yes, the “Smash” star said before
posing for a photo. Bisignano’s wife, Tracy, a fifth-grade
school teacher, hustled into the last frame.  Later,  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s (JPM)  chief administrative officer
-- in charge of everything from technology to real estate to
global security for businesses in 60 countries -- and chief
executive of mortgage banking appeared on stage as emissary of
Chase, the sponsor of BAM’s 150th anniversary year.  Bisignano, honorary corporate chairman of the gala,
reminisced about the old neighborhood and noted that Chase has
1.2 million customers in the city.  At the mention of “Chase,” a small portion of the
audience booed, and expressed their desire to get on with the
show (three people had spoken, and there was still a video to
come).  The mood lifted as soon as New Orleans master  Dr. John 
processed down the aisle with a romping horn section in tow,
with Bisignano and JPMorgan spokesman  Joe Evangelisti  rising
from their seats and dancing with the rest of the audience.  It wasn’t the only highlight of his week. Today JPMorgan
beat estimates with its first-quarter earnings, on gains from
mortgage lending. Its 3.1 percent net-income drop was a smaller
decline than analysts estimated. Bisignano has turned around the
mortgage unit.  Go-to Manager  “Frank is the go-to manager at JPMorgan,” Dick Cashin,
managing partner at One Equity Partners LLC, which is owned by
JPMorgan Chase, said in an interview at an April 9 gala for
Ballet Hispanico. “He’s the guy brought in to fix things. He’s
the culture carrier of a bank managed not by bankers and traders
but by businessmen and businesswomen.”  Cashin joined Bisignano at the gala, where JPMorgan was a
lead sponsor. There, in the  Plaza Hotel’s  ballroom, Bisignano
sat with Giants wide receiver  Victor Cruz . He didn’t join Cruz
in his signature end-zone dance, with music provided by the
Spanish Harlem Orchestra.  “He can dance to the two songs we danced to at our
wedding,” his wife said. These were “You Can Make Me Free” by
 Billy Joel  and “Songbird” by Fleetwood Mac.  As he demonstrated last night, he can also dance to funk.  Another bright spot in the week was an announcement that
the  100,000 Jobs Mission , which is committed to hiring 100,000
veterans by 2020, has hired more than 12,000 veterans. Bisignano
is a founding member of the coalition and JPMorgan Chase has
made more than 4,000 of those hires.  “Long-term success,” Bisignano said in a statement,
“requires that we put as much effort into assimilating,
retaining and promoting veterans as we do on recruiting and
hiring them.”  In the positive-economic-indicators department, two Fifth
Avenue luxury boutiques threw parties last night.  At Salvatore Ferragamo, Beyonce’s sister, Solange Knowles,
spun music to celebrate the store’s renovation. Women will shop
on the ground floor, men on the second floor, in an environment
incorporating white Venetian plaster, dark oak and stone.  Red Shoes  “It’s amazing what renovation can do,” Massimo Ferragamo,
chairman of Ferragamo USA Inc., said. “Things really stand out
now and people can see better, touch better and, hopefully, buy
better.”  One tempting item: a pair of red and gold shoes displayed
in a glass case.  “They’re an inspiration from some of my father’s
creations, which are in our museum in Florence,” Ferragamo
said.  Meanwhile, Cartier opened an exhibition celebrating Aldo
Cipullo, the house’s designer who made the Love bracelet in 1969
and the first nail bracelet in 1971.  Cartier may be “Parisian, French, 1847,” as Emmanuel
Perrin, president and chief executive officer of Cartier North
America, said. The exhibition, however, shows the influence of
industrial  New York  on the house.  Turkish actress Bade Iscil was on hand. Beyonce, Jay-Z and
 LCD Soundsystem ’s James Murphy attended the after-party
downtown.  ( Amanda Gordon  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Today’s Muse Highlights: Zinta Lundborg’s New York  weekend ,
Frederik Balfour interviews  Frank Gehry ,  Lewis Lapham  on  Mormon 
founders.  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 