-- Lawmakers Urge U.S. Court to Uphold CFTC Speculation Limits
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-04-13T22:08:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/senators-urge-u-s-court-to-uphold-cftc-speculation-limits-1-.html
Wall Street’s challenge to U.S.
regulations limiting speculation in commodities including oil
and natural gas should be dismissed because Congress required
the rules under the Dodd-Frank Act, 35 Democratic Senators and
Representatives said in briefs submitted to a federal judge.  The 2010 Dodd-Frank law “was designed and intended to make
those position limits mandatory,” 18 Democratic and one
Independent senator said in a friend of the court brief
submitted to the court. In a separate brief scheduled to be
filed, 17 Democratic House members said the law didn’t require
an analysis prior to completion.  Trade associations representing companies including
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  sued to overturn the U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission  regulation approved last year that would cap the
number of contracts a derivatives trader can have.  The lawsuit is one of the financial industry’s highest-
profile challenges to the Dodd-Frank law that bolsters
regulation of derivatives after largely unregulated swaps helped
fuel the 2008 credit crisis. The  International Swaps and
Derivatives Association Inc.  and the  Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association  argue that the agency used a
flawed analysis of Dodd-Frank when it completed the rule and
didn’t adequately consider the costs of the rule. A ruling is
pending from U.S. District Judge Robert Wilkins in  Washington .  High Oil Prices  “Oil supplies are plentiful and demand is down, so high
gas prices can’t be explained by ordinary market forces of
supply and demand,” Senator Carl Levin, a  Michigan  Democrat,
said in a statement announcing the court filing. “An ongoing
contributing factor is excessive speculation in U.S. commodity
markets.”  The Senate brief was also signed, according to the
statement, by Democratic Senators Mark Begich of Alaska, Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut, Barbara Boxer of California, Sherrod Brown of Ohio, Maria Cantwell of Washington, Ben Cardin of
 Maryland , Dianne Feinstein of California, Tom Harkin of Iowa,
Patrick Leahy of Vermont, Joe Manchin of West Virginia, Claire McCaskill of Missouri, Robert Menendez of  New Jersey , Barbara Mikulski of Maryland, Bill Nelson of Florida, Jeanne Shaheen of
New Hampshire, Sheldon Whitehouse of Rhode Island and Ron Wyden
of Oregon.  Senator Bernie Sanders, a Vermont Independent, also signed
the brief.  ‘What Congress Intended’  “Amicus briefs from the Hill are rare, but when they are
used, they are the stuff, they really mean something,”  Bart Chilton , a Democrat on the CFTC and supporter of the limits,
said today. “These folks actually wrote the law, making them a
key voice in knowing what Congress intended.”  The 17 Democratic Representatives said position limits have
traditionally been established before a problem is identified in
markets. “Such limits were required in order to prevent
possible harm, not merely to address harm that has already
occurred,” the representatives said.  The brief was signed by Barney Frank of Massachusetts,
Collin Peterson of Minnesota, Maxine Waters of  California ,
Leonard Boswell of Iowa, Carolyn Maloney of  New York , Henry Waxman of California, Luis Guiterrez of Illinois, Bobby Rush of
Illinois, Mel Watt of North Carolina, John Conyers of Michigan,
Gregory Meeks of New York, Howard Berman of California, Gary Peters of Michigan, Edolphus Towns of New York, Nydia Velazquez
of New York,  Elijah Cummings  of Maryland and Heath Shuler of
North Carolina.  The case is International Swaps and Derivatives Association
v. U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, 11-02146, U.S.
District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  