-- Shougang Fushan Extends Loss, Denies Shortseller Report
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2012-04-13T09:02:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/shougang-fushan-extends-loss-denies-shortseller-report-1-.html
Shougang Fushan Resources Group
Ltd. (639) , a Chinese coking coal producer, fell for a second day in
 Hong Kong  after a short seller said the company inflated profit
margins. The company denied the allegations in a statement
today.  The shares fell 2 percent to close at HK$2.48 in Hong Kong.
The stock fell 3.1 percent yesterday when the report was
released.  All public information released by Shougang Fushan -- 29.4
percent owned by state-owned steelmaker Shougang Corp. -- is
“accurate and true,” Chairman Li Shaofeng said in an interview
yesterday.  The U.S. short seller Glaucus Research Group California LLC
said Shougang Fushan overpaid a related company for coal mines
and inflated profit margins. Li countered in the interview that
the acquisition was well received by investors and the higher
margins reflected superior coal quality. He said the company was
never contacted by Glaucus Research.  Glaucus Research was founded in January last year “because
I noticed a demand in the equity research market for a firm that
conducted deep due-diligence,” founder Matt Wiechert said in an
e-mailed response.  “We have accepted Fushan’s clarification and recommend
investors not follow Glaucus to short-sell on Fushan,”  Helen Lau , a Hong Kong-based analyst at UOB-Kay Hian Ltd., wrote in a
note to clients following a conference call with the company
yesterday. She maintains a “hold” recommendation on the stock.  Shougang Fushan has 17 “buy” analyst recommendations and
five “buy” ratings,  according to data compiled by Bloomberg .
About 320 million shares traded today, almost 13 times the
three-month average volume, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Short investors bet against a stock by selling borrowed
shares with the expectation of repurchasing them at a lower
price. Long investors buy shares betting the price will rise.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  