-- Simpson Thacher, Baker & Hostetler, Boies: Business of Law
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-04-13T12:06:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/simpson-thacher-baker-hostetler-boies-business-of-law.html
Oaktree Capital Group LLC (OAK) , the
world’s largest distressed-debt investor, relied on  Simpson
Thacher & Bartlett LLP (1139L)  for its initial public offering that
debuted yesterday. The lead underwriters,  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  and Morgan Stanley, turned to  Sullivan & Cromwell LLP (1147L)  for
advice.  The Simpson Thacher team was led by corporate partner
Thomas Wuchenich in Los Angeles and included corporate
associates Ryan Nolan in  Palo Alto , in Los Angeles, Michael
Reeves, Sara Terheggen and Christopher Piazza as well as Daniel
Daneshrad in New York; tax partners Katharine Moir in Palo Alto,
John Hart in New York and associate Sean Austin in New York; and
benefits partner Tristan Brown in Palo Alto and associate Paul
Koppel in New York.  The Sullivan & Cromwell team included corporate partners
Patrick Brown in  Los Angeles  and Jay Clayton in New York and
corporate associates Rita-Anne O’Neill, Jason Anderson, Azil
Virji and Scott Campbell in Los Angeles; and in tax, partner
 Andrew Mason , special counsel Judith Fiorini, special counsel
David Passey and associate Adrienne Maxwell; Investment Company
Act partner William Farrar; financial institutions special
counsel Mark Lab; and banking and project finance partner Erik
Lindauer, all based in New York.  Oaktree, which trades on the New York Stock Exchange under
the symbol OAK, opened at $41 a share, below its $43 offering
price. It rebounded during the day to close at $42.39.  The Los Angeles-based firm, co-founded by Howard Marks and
Bruce Karsh, raised $380.2 million in its IPO, about 27 percent
less than originally sought.  Baker & Hostetler, Ropes & Gray on IPO for Outback Owner  Bloomin’ Brands Inc., owner of the Outback Steakhouse
restaurant chain, is seeking to raise $300 million in an initial
public offering to help pay down debt.  Baker & Hostetler LLP represents Bloomin’ in the IPO and
Ropes & Gray LLP represents the lead underwriters,  Bank of
America Corp. ,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  From Baker & Hostetler are partners John Gherlein, Janet
Spreen, Suzanne Hanselman, Peter Van Euwen and Edward Ptaszek
and associates Katie O’Connor, John Harrington and Matthew
Oliver, all in the firm’s Cleveland office.  The Ropes & Gray lawyers are  Boston  partners Keith Higgins
and Marko Zatylny and associates John Donnelly and Joshua
Morrison, also in Boston.  Bloomin’ Brands, based in Tampa,  Florida , is owned by Bain
Capital LLC and Catterton Management Co. The company said in its
filing April 6 that it will trade under the ticker BLM.  Bloomin’ Brands also owns the chains Carrabba’s Italian
Grill, Bonefish Grill, Fleming’s Prime Steakhouse & Wine Bar and
Roy’s Hawaiian Fusion Cuisine.  News  Four Law Firms Prepare for ‘World Series’ of IP Trials  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  will ask a jury next week to find that  Google
Inc. (GOOG)  stole its intellectual property to make Android software in
a trial that a federal judge called the “ World Series  of IP
cases.”  The law firms involved in the case are heavy hitters as
well: Representing Oracle are Boies, Schiller & Flexner LLP and
Morrison & Foerster LLP, while  King & Spalding (1140L)  and Keker & Van
Nest LLP represent Google.  From Boies Schiller are partners  David Boies , Steven
Holtzman, Alanna Rutherford and Fred Norton and associates
Rosaline Chan, Meredith Dearborn and Beko Richardson.  The partners at Morrison & Foerster are: Michael Jacobs,
Ken Kuwayti, Marc Peters and Dan Muino, along with associates
Ruchika Agrawal, Christina Chen, Ben Peterson, Patricia Svilik,
Roman Swoopes and Yuka Teraguchi.  From King & Spalding are partners Scott T. Weingaertner and
Bruce W. Baber and associates Mark H. Francis, Chris C.
Carnaval, Brian C. Banner and Truman Fenton.  From Keker & Van Nest are partners Robert Van Nest and
Christa Anderson, of counsel Michael Kwun, partners Dan Purcell,
Gene Paige, Matthias Kamber and associates Reid Mullen and David
Zimmer.  Oracle, the database maker seeking to wring profit from its
$7.4 billion 2010 acquisition of  Sun Microsystems Inc. (JAVA) , is
seeking $1 billion in damages and an injunction to block Android
software that allegedly infringes patents it owns through Sun.
Google, whose Android software is running on more than 150
million devices, denies any infringement and says the Oracle-
owned technology it used isn’t covered by copyright.  U.S. District Judge William Alsup, will preside over the
trial which is scheduled to begin April 16 in  San Francisco .  The case is Oracle America Inc. v. Google Inc., 10-03561,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of  California  (San
Francisco).  For more on the case, click here.  Moves  Indianapolis Firm Adds Former Mayor to Its Ranks  Faegre Baker Daniels LLP (1217L)  has hired Jonathon Weinzapfel, the
former mayor of Evansville as counsel.  According to a statement released by the firm, Weinzapfel
will advise clients in their relationships with federal, state
and local governments. Additionally, he will advise nonprofits
and government clients on developing public-private partnerships
and economic development projects, the firm said in its
statement.  Weinzapfel was mayor of Evansville,  Indiana ’s third largest
city, from 2004 to 2011. He will work from Evansville.  SEC Names U.S. Attorney Matthew Solomon as Deputy Trial Head  Matthew C. Solomon, chief of the fraud unit in the U.S.
Attorney’s Office for the  District of Columbia , has been named
deputy head of the Securities and Exchange Commission’s trial
group.  Solomon, 39, has been a federal prosecutor for more than 10
years, and since 2010 has supervised 25 prosecutors handling
hundreds of white-collar criminal matters including securities-
fraud cases, the SEC said in a statement today.  As a prosecutor, Solomon has tried about two dozen cases
involving extortion,  money laundering ,  tax fraud , bribery, drug
offenses and obstruction of justice, according to the SEC
statement. He has also served as a counsel to the Senate
Judiciary Committee. Solomon will join the SEC in June.  New Partners  Hunton & Williams Promotes Eleven Attorneys to Partner  Hunton & Williams LLP has announced its new partners. The
firm promoted Heather S. Archer, Timothy L. Jacobs, Daniel G.
Vivarelli Jr. and Amanda L. Wait in  Washington , Steven M. Haas,
Brian L. Hager and George P. “Trey” Sibley III in Richmond,
Jamie Zysk Isani in Miami, David A. Kelly and David R. Yates in
Atlanta and Yeongyo Anna Suh in San Francisco.  According to the firm’s statement, Hunton & Williams has
more than 800 lawyers serving clients in 100 countries from 19
offices around the world.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in  New York  at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  