-- SNC-Lavalin Declines After RCMP Search: Montreal Mover
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2012-04-13T21:02:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/snc-lavalin-declines-after-rcmp-search-montreal-mover.html
SNC-Lavalin Group Inc. (SNC)  fell after
the  Royal Canadian Mounted Police  searched the company’s
Montreal headquarters.  Canada’s largest engineering company dropped 4.2 percent to
C$38.40 in Toronto. It has dropped 25 percent this year.  The RCMP is executing a search warrant at SNC-Lavalin’s
head office, the company confirmed today on its website. The
investigation is related to “certain individuals who are not or
are no longer employed by the company,” SNC-Lavalin said.  SNC-Lavalin is “cooperating fully with all
investigations,” the company said in its statement. Leslie Quinton, a spokeswoman, didn’t immediately return e-mails from
Bloomberg News seeking comment.  “This investigation is currently ongoing, and we’re not
going to answer any more questions or comment on specific
details,” said Sergeant Marc Menard, a spokesman for the RCMP.  Former Chief Executive Officer Pierre Duhaime agreed to
step down last month after the discovery of incorrectly booked
payments for construction projects.  The company said March 26 that an independent review found
$56 million in costs, apparently from the hiring of agents,
posted to projects to which they weren’t related. Material from
the review will be turned over to the RCMP and other
authorities, the company said at the time.  SNC-Lavalin named Vice Chairman Ian A. Bourne to serve as
interim CEO during the global search for a successor to Duhaime,
who stepped into the top job in May 2009.  Duhaime said in May that the company was excluding all
Libyan orders from its revenue backlog “as a precautionary
measure” because of the revolution in the North African
country.  Projects in  Libya  accounted for about 7 percent of SNC-
Lavalin’s backlog when the armed rebellion against deposed
dictator Muammar Qaddafi broke out last year and all work was
suspended. The Globe & Mail newspaper said in January that two
SNC-Lavalin executives had ties to Qaddafi’s son, Saadi.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  