-- SOPA, Dolce & Gabbana, Becton: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-04-13T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/sopa-dolce-gabbana-becton-dickinson-intellectual-property.html
Hollywood-backed legislation to
fight online piracy, shelved this year after an Internet protest
led by  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Wikipedia, is “dead,” said the head of
the trade group for the largest movie studios.  The Stop Online Piracy Act, known as SOPA, is “history,”
 Christopher Dodd , chairman of the Washington-based Motion
Picture Association of America, said in an interview for
“Conversations with Judy Woodruff” on Bloomberg Television set
to air this weekend. “It’s gone. In my view, it’s dead.”  The organization representing studios including  Walt Disney
Co. (DIS)  and  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s Paramount Pictures had built bipartisan
backing for the bill in the House and the Protect IP Act in the
Senate through late last year. The bills would have given
government and copyright holders more tools to crack down on
non-U.S. websites that offer pirated content.  Congress shelved the legislation in January after Google
and Wikipedia led an Internet protest against the bills, saying
the measures would promote online censorship, disrupt the Web’s
architecture and harm their ability to innovate.  “The issue hasn’t gone away,” said Dodd, a Connecticut
Democrat who served three decades in the U.S. Senate. “In fact,
even those from the technology community, the overwhelming
majority, believe that we must do something about intellectual
property.”  Dodd called the Internet protest a “watershed event” that
globalized an issue that previously didn’t have a large
audience. He said the Stop Online Piracy Act “went further than
it probably should have.”  The anti-piracy bills supported by the studio trade group
would have let the  Justice Department  seek court orders forcing
Internet-service providers, search engines, payment processors
and online ad networks to block or stop doing business with non-
U.S. sites linked to selling counterfeit goods.  The measures would also have let private copyright holders
seek court orders to require payment services and advertising
companies to cut off such websites.  Asked about a compromise, Dodd said there is a “constant
conversation,” without providing detail.  “Right now we’re in an election year,” he said. “The
Congress has got a lot of other things on their minds other than
copyright and intellectual property. But there’ll be a new
session next year.”  For more copyright news, click here.  Patents  Depomed Sues Impax, Par in Patent Case Over Gralise Copy  Depomed Inc. sued the generic-drug makers  Impax
Laboratories Inc. (IPXL)  and  Par Pharmaceutical Co. (PRX)  to prevent them
from selling copies of Gralise, a medicine that treats pain
after shingles infections.  Impax and Par are seeking U.S. Food and Drug Administration
approval to sell generic versions of Gralise, according to a
complaint filed April 10 in federal court in Trenton,  New
Jersey . Depomed, based in Menlo Park,  California , said the
copies for 300 and 600 milligram tablets would infringe six
patents. It seeks a court order to prevent sales until the
patents expire.  Impax, based in Hayward, California, confirmed in a
statement yesterday that it filed an FDA application challenging
the patents. Allison Wey, a spokeswoman for Par, based in
Woodcliff, New Jersey, didn’t immediately return a call seeking
comment.  On March 2, Depomed also sued Actavis Group Hf, Watson
Pharmaceuticals Inc. and Incepta Pharmaceuticals Co., claiming
they infringed the same six Gralise patents.  The case is  Depomed Inc. (DEPO)  v. Impax Laboratories, 12-cv-2154,
U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey (Trenton).  Germany Beating Texas as Preferred Venue for Patent Fights  Germany ’s court system is becoming a venue of choice for
international patent disputes, PC World  reported .  The country has specialized judges to hear patent cases,
and its courts handle hundreds of patent disputes every year,
some rendering decisions within less than a year, according to
PC World.  Mannheim and Munich’s courts act twice as fast as the U.S.
International Trade Commission, which has the power to bar
imports that infringe U.S. Patents, the magazine reported.  Joachim Henkel, a professor specializing in technology and
information management at the Technical University of Munich,
told PC Magazine that companies that seek an order to halt sales
of infringing products prefer German courts, while those in
search of money damages prefer the U.S. court system.  Mitek Systems Sues USAA Over Wireless Check-Deposit Patents  Mitek Systems Inc. (MITK) , a document-imaging company, sued United
Services Automobile Association, known as USAA, and accused it
of infringing five patents for making check deposits with mobile
electronic devices.  USAA, an insurer based in San Antonio, agreed to use San
Diego-based Mitek’s software, then developed its own mobile-
deposit system by creating “a knockoff product,” lawyers for
Mitek said in a federal court complaint filed yesterday in
Wilmington, Delaware.  Mitek contends it “will continue to suffer irreparable
harm” because USAA is wrongly using technology protected by its
patents and has violated a contract that limits transaction-
volume.  Mitek seeks a jury trial, unspecified damages and a court
order to stop the infringement by USAA, which provides banking,
insurance, and retirement services to the U.S. military and
their families.  The case is related to a lawsuit filed by USAA against
Mitek on March 29 in federal court in San Antonio alleging it,
not Mitek, invented the technology.  Paul Berry, a spokesman for USAA, said he hadn’t seen the
suit and couldn’t immediately comment.  The case is Mitek v. USAA, U.S. District Court, District of
Delaware (Wilmington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Dolce & Gabbana Claims Dolce & Banana Infringes Trademark  Dolce & Gabbana Industria SpA, the Italian luxury clothing
brand, filed a trademark infringement suit in a South African
court against a retailer of beach-themed costume jewelry,
Women’s Wear Daily  reported .  The Legnano, Italy-based company objected to use of “Dolce
& Banana” as the name of the shop, and accused the proprietor
of diluting the brand, according to WWD.  The proprietor said she’s changing the name because she
can’t afford the cost of the lawsuit, the newspaper reported.  Dolce & Gabbana’s law firm sent the store’s proprietor two
warnings before the company filed suit, WWD reported.  The proprietor used Twitter Inc.’s short messaging service
in unsuccessful efforts to defuse the dispute, according to the
newspaper.  Becton Dickinson Tube Top Design Can’t Be Trademark, Court Rules  Becton Dickinson & Co. (BDX) , the medical device maker, lost a
challenge to a ruling from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.  In a decision handed down yesterday, a federal appeals
court said the patent Office’s Trademark Trial and Appeal Board
acted properly in refusing to register the design of a closure
cap for blood collection tubes as a trademark.  The Washington-based court said the features of the cap
that Becton Dickinson claimed were distinctive were either
functional or insignificant. It affirmed the patent office’s
board’s decision.  The Franklin Lakes, New Jersey-based medical-device
company’s argument was made by Richard Z. Lehv of  New York ’s
Fross, Zelnick, Lehrman, & Zissu PC. The patent office’s case
was argued by Christina J. Hieber, assistant solicitor, U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office.  The case is In re: Becton Dickinson, 11-01111,  U.S. Court
of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit.  For more trademark news, click here.  IP Talk  China Record on Intellectual Property Troubling, Locke Says  China ’s lack of protection for intellectual property rights
is hampering companies doing business in the country and
strengthening enforcement needs to be a top priority, U.S.
officials said.  The stakes in protecting intellectual property are
“enormous,” and solving the problem will take time, U.S.
Ambassador to China Gary Locke said yesterday at a press
conference in Beijing.  China has pledged to improve copyright enforcement in the
world’s second-largest economy, where almost four out of five
computer programs used are pirated, according to the annual
report of the Business Software Alliance released in May  The $7.78 billion commercial value of software pirated in
China in 2010 was second only to the $9.52 billion lost in the
U.S., the Business Software Alliance said in its May report.  In trade talks with the U.S. in November, Chinese Vice
Premier  Wang Qishan  pledged to improve monitoring of
intellectual property rights.  Chinese authorities investigated 16,000 cases of
counterfeiting involving 13.12 billion yuan ($2.1 billion) of
goods during the government’s “Sharp Sword” campaign from
October 2010 to June 2011, according to China’s State Council,
or cabinet. That campaign led to prosecution in 2,176 cases.  Catherine Leung, general manager of music and entertainment
at Baidu Inc., owner of the nation’s biggest search engine, said
the said the perceived importance of IPR is increasing. Last
year, Baidu signed an agreement with Universal Music Group,
Warner Music Group Corp. and  Sony Corp. (6758)  to pay owners of
copyrighted material as part of a deal to make half a million
songs available in China through mp3 search and the ting! social
music platform.  The percentage of software in China that is pirated dropped
to 78 percent in 2010 from 79 percent in 2009 and 92 percent in
2003, according to the Business Software Alliance. While the
proportion of stolen software has declined, its value has
increased as the Chinese software market expands, the group’s
report said.  In the  2012 China Business Climate Survey Report  by the
American Chamber of Commerce in China, published last month, 24
percent of the respondents cited intellectual property rights
infringement as one of the “top business challenges” in the
country.  China’s enforcement of intellectual property rights was
labeled ineffective by 79 percent in the survey, up from 70
percent a year earlier.  IP Moves  McCarter & English Expands IP Practice With Patent Specialist  McCarter & English LLP (1389L)  hired Harry K. Ahn for its IP
practice, the Newark, New Jersey-based firm said in a statement.  Ahn , who joined from New York’s Abelman, Frayne & Schwab,
does both litigation and patent-related transactional work,
including patent acquisition.  He has represented clients whose technologies have included
telecommunications, electronic circuits, semiconductors,
software, business methods, optics, and medical devices. Before
he was a lawyer, he worked as a systems engineer focused on
electronic switching systems and integrated services digital
networks.  Ahn has an undergraduate degree in electrical engineering
from  Columbia University , a master’s degree in business from  New
York University  and a law degree from Fordham University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 