-- South Africa’s ANC Braces for Repeat of Leadership Fight
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-04-13T08:59:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/south-africa-s-anc-braces-for-repeat-of-leadership-fight-1-.html
South  Africa ’s ruling  African
National Congress  is bracing for a divisive leadership fight as
President  Jacob Zuma  prepares to fend off a challenge similar to
the one he mounted five years ago to depose  Thabo Mbeki .  Zuma’s biggest threat at a December conference is likely to
come from his deputy,  Kgalema Motlanthe .  Party Treasurer-
General Mathews Phosa and Human Settlements Minister Tokyo Sexwale also covet the top job, said Susan Booysen, author of
“The ANC and the Regeneration of Political Power.” Since the
ANC commands almost two-thirds of the national vote, the
president of the party and the nation are one and the same.  “The party is extremely volatile,” Daryl Glaser, a
politics professor at the University of Witwatersrand, said in a
March 28 phone interview from Johannesburg. “The anti-Zuma
forces might be able to mobilize the disaffected youth, the
branches, and turn the tables on Zuma, like they did on Mbeki.”  Once a political movement united behind  Nelson Mandela  in
fighting the apartheid government, the 100-year-old ANC now
presides over a $372-billion economy, with its hands on the
levers of power, resources, state jobs and contracts.  While economic growth has averaged 1.5 percent annually for
the past three years the government has said it must expand 7
percent a year to meet its goal of creating 5 million new jobs
by 2020. Growth in the same period averaged 3.6 percent in both
Brazil and  Turkey , according to the  International Monetary Fund .  There are several anti-Zuma factions within the ANC that
accuse him of abusing his position by dispensing patronage to
his family and political allies, according to Booysen.  Mining, Oil  Zuma’s nephew, Khulubuse Zuma, has invested in mining and
oil, while his son, Duduzane, was part of a group of black
investors that was awarded a $1.1 billion stake in steelmaker
 ArcelorMittal South Africa Ltd. (ACL)  before the transaction was
scrapped last year. Zuma and his relatives deny using their
political clout to clinch business deals.  Two recent ANC decisions have bolstered Zuma’s position.
The party expelled one of his biggest critics, ANC Youth League
leader  Julius Malema , and it decided that nominations for
leadership posts will only open two months before the December
party congress. No one has declared their candidature.  The youth league, which helped mobilize support for the
ouster of Mbeki, threw its weight behind Motlanthe after Zuma
refused to support its call for mines, banks and land to be
nationalized. The Congress of South African Trade Unions, the
country’s largest labor grouping with 2 million members, which
also backed Zuma in 2007, has criticized his administration for
not doing enough to create jobs and ease poverty.  Unemployment  The  unemployment  rate has exceeded 23 percent since Zuma,
70, became president in 2009.  Legal trouble also looms. The Bloemfontein-based  Supreme
Court  of Appeal ordered prosecutors last month to release
abridged records of an April 2009 decision to drop charges
against Zuma that were filed after he was accused of taking
bribes from arms dealers.  While Zuma declined to comment beyond saying he “noted”
the ruling, the opposition Democratic Alliance said it may force
prosecutors to reopen the case against him. The  High Court  will
rule on the matter after the National Prosecuting Authority
abandoned its opposition to a judicial review.  Zuma’s main attraction in 2007 was his ability to mobilize
anti-Mbeki sentiment, said Booysen.  “He is not the ultimate leader,” she said in an April 4
phone interview from Johannesburg. “He was the only one who had
everything to win and nothing to lose in the battle against
Mbeki.”  The 2007 conference was the first time since the advent of
democracy that the leadership of the ANC went down to a vote,
and exposed divisions within the country’s ruling alliance,
which includes unions and the  South African Communist Party .  Divisions  Motlanthe, 62, a former labor leader, served as president
of the country for eight months after Mbeki was removed because
Zuma wasn’t eligible for the post until after April 2009
elections.  While Motlanthe appeared alongside Malema at a Youth League
rally in the northeastern town of Tzaneen on March 26, he has
distanced himself from the campaign to oust Zuma.  “Those who try to use our names to divide the organization
will not succeed,” he told reporters in Johannesburg on April 3
at a press conference attended by the top six office holders of
the ANC’s National Executive Committee. He has said the
government has no immediate plans to take over mines.  Motlanthe acquitted himself well in dealing with the
fallout of the global financial crisis, said Peter Attard Montalto, an economist at Nomura Plc in  London .  ‘Statesman’  “He is thoughtful policy-wise, smart politically and
looked like a statesman,” Attard Montalto said in an e-mailed
comments on March 30.  Even though some analysts consider Motlanthe to be a better
communicator than Zuma, who has been criticized for varying his
positions depending on the audience he is addressing, the leader
of the party has the advantage.  In his current position, Motlanthe is responsible for
coordinating the building of new power plants and rail links and
the expansion of the country’s ports and overseeing the
government’s anti-AIDS program.  Motlanthe will stand for the post if nominated and has
backing in at least four of the nine provinces, the
Johannesburg-based Sunday Times reported on March 17, citing
unidentified senior aides to the deputy president.  Polarized Campaign  Motlanthe “hasn’t spoken to anybody about leadership
positions in the ANC,” his spokesman Thabo Masebe, said in a
March 26 interview from  Pretoria . “He doesn’t want to get
involved in speculation about nomination.”  A polarized election campaign that taints both leading
candidates may open the door for  Cyril Ramaphosa , one of  South
Africa ’s wealthiest black businessmen, said William Gumede,
author of ‘Thabo Mbeki and The Battle For the Soul of The ANC’
in an April 4 interview from Johannesburg.  Johannesburg’s  City Press newspaper  on April 1 reported
that Ramaphosa was being courted by supporters of both Motlanthe
and Zuma who want him to serve as a deputy and later rule the
country. The newspaper cited nine unidentified people ranging
from provincial leaders to businessmen.  Ramaphosa, 59, was the ANC’s chief negotiator in the talks
that ended the apartheid system and helped design the
constitution following all-race elections in 1994.  He quit mainstream politics in 1996 and went into business
after Mbeki defeated him in the race to succeed Mandela. The
chairman of  Bidvest Group Ltd. (BVT)  and  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) , Africa’s
biggest mobile phone company, he remains a member of the ANC’s
national executive committee, and is deputy head of the
country’s National Planning Commission.  Integrity  In September the  Sunday Times  estimated his wealth at 2.22
billion rand ($278 million), excluding property and unlisted
assets.  “Because Zuma’s in power, he’s the front runner,” Gumede
said. “However somebody who is not in the thick of things, such
as Ramaphosa, who has integrity and is not seen as corrupt, may
have a very good chance.”  Zuma has strong support in his home province of KwaZulu-
Natal and the Eastern Cape, which together account for more than
40 percent of ANC members, and Motlanthe may be reluctant to
enter the leadership fray unless he is sure of success, said
Glaser.  “Motlanthe has never displayed an enormous hunger for
power, but it must be quite difficult for him to resist all
these entreaties to go for the presidency,” Glaser said. “If
he decides to go for the presidency openly, he risks losing not
only the presidency but the deputy presidency.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  