-- South Sudan Urges North to Withdraw Forces, Vows to Do Same
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-13T15:11:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/south-sudan-urges-north-to-withdraw-forces-vows-to-do-same.html
South Sudan  is willing to resume
negotiations once  Sudan  agrees to end hostilities and the United
Nations deploys forces for peace-monitoring in seven disputed
areas, said the country’s chief negotiator, Pagan Amum.  “South Sudan is ready to return to negotiations with the
government of Sudan immediately,” Amum, secretary-general of
the south’s Sudan People’s Liberation Movement, told reporters
today in Nairobi, the capital of neighboring Kenya. The UN “has
to deploy into all contested areas and then the parties need to
go to international arbitration,” and a demilitarized buffer
zone should also be set up, Amum said.  South Sudan seceded from Sudan in July last year, the
result of a 2005 peace deal that ended two decades of war. New
fighting in the ill-defined border region separating the two
nations broke out after South Sudanese forces seized control of
the oil-rich Heglig region on April 10. The south went on the
offensive after coming under aerial bombardment by Sudanese
military airplanes on 60 occasions since March and facing ground
attacks that were planned in Heglig, Amum said.  The UN Security Council yesterday joined the  African Union 
in calling for South Sudanese forces to withdraw from Heglig and
for Sudan to stop the bombings to avert war.  This week’s clashes prompted Sudan to pull out of African-
Union sponsored talks over oil revenue-sharing, border
demarcation and citizenship rights, and suspend oil production
in Heglig, which it lays claim to along with its crude deposits.
South Sudan disagrees.  Oil Production  Sudan produces about 60,000 barrels a day of crude from
oilfields in Heglig in Southern Kordofan state, about half of
the country’s daily production, according to  Global Witness , a
London-based advocacy group. China National Petroleum Corp.,
Malaysia’s  Petroliam Nasional Bhd (PET) . and  India ’s ONGC Videsh Ltd.
pump most of the oil in the two countries.  South Sudan assumed control of about three-quarters of the
former unified Sudan’s output of 490,000 barrels a day when it
seceded, and oil accounts for 90 percent of its revenue. To
transport the crude, it relies on a pipeline that runs via the
north to  Port Sudan ’s export terminal on the  Red Sea . In
January, South Sudan halted oilfield operations and stopped
exporting through Sudan amid a dispute over transit fees.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  