-- South Korea Maintains Rates After North’s Rocket Launch
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2012-04-13T07:56:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/south-korea-keeps-rates-on-hold-after-north-launches-rocket-1-.html
The Bank of  Korea  kept borrowing
costs unchanged for a 10th straight month after  North Korea 
launched a rocket and as austerity measures in developed
economies limit demand for exports.  Governor Kim Choong Soo and his board held the benchmark
 seven-day repurchase rate  at 3.25 percent in a meeting before a
launch that North Korea’s official news service said failed to
enter its preset orbit. The unanimous rate decision was
predicted by all 13 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  South Korean stocks and the won rose today after Japanese
Defense Minister Naoki Tanaka said the rocket flew for more than
a minute and fell into the sea. The South’s president,  Lee Myung Bak , called an emergency Cabinet meeting and the central bank
said it will move to stabilize markets if necessary.  “Although export growth has slowed, the Monetary Policy
Committee appraises economic growth to have shown signs of a
moderate recovery, with consumption and construction investment
increasing,” the central bank said in a statement. “The
domestic economic growth rate will gradually return to its long-
term trend going forward, although downside risks remain due
mostly to the impacts of external risk factors.”  The won gained 0.5 percent to close at 1,135.00 per dollar
in  Seoul  after earlier touching a one-week high of 1,131.25,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Kospi stock index
rose the most in a month, gaining 1.1 percent to 2,008.91.  Plan to Meet  North Korea fired the rocket at about 7:39 a.m. today and
it exploded within minutes, the South Korean  Defense Ministry 
said in Seoul. North Korea’s state media confirmed the launch
failed.  “Any negative impact on the South Korean market will be
limited and short-lived as this event is all-too-familiar on the
Korean peninsula,” said Kwon Young Sun, a Hong Kong-based
economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. “We expect South Korean
policy makers to do whatever it takes to stabilize any market
volatility.”  Japan Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  said markets were
responding calmly and his government will consider whether more
action against North Korea is needed.  Officials from South Korea’s  finance ministry , central bank
and regulator will meet at 3 p.m. on April 15 to review the
nation’s economy and financial markets after the launch, the
finance ministry said in an e-mailed statement today.  Growth Forecasts  “Given the past provocations by North Korea, our financial
markets tended to recover from a shock in three days to seven
days, ” BOK Governor Kim told reporters in Seoul. “We’re
watching and analyzing the markets closely.”  Tension over the North’s action comes as policy makers in
 Asia  grapple with any fallout from the European debt crisis, the
state of the  U.S. economy  and higher fuel costs.  Crude oil has risen about 20 percent the past six months,
forcing Asian governments to raise fuel prices and limiting
policy options for central banks in the world’s fastest growing
region. Developing Asia can refrain from further monetary and
fiscal stimulus because expansion will remain robust, while
spikes in energy costs can revive the threat of inflation, the
 Asian Development Bank  said in a report on April 11.  “One of our biggest concerns is that people’s inflation
expectations have not been lowered significantly,” Kim said.
“We need to continue our efforts to keep down expectations.”  Signs of Recovery  Asia excluding  Japan  will expand 6.9 percent this year from
7.2 percent in 2011, the Manila-based lender forecast in its
Asian Development Outlook 2012 report. That’s lower than its
September forecast of 7.5 percent. Growth will accelerate to 7.3
percent in 2013, the fastest pace in three years, it said.  Asia’s fourth-largest economy, which grew at the slowest
pace in two years in the three months ended in December, may
have bottomed before beginning to recover this quarter, Finance
Minister Bahk Jae Wan said on April. 4. Samsung Electronics Co.,
Asia’s largest consumer-electronics maker, posted record
operating profit in the quarter through March.  “Our economy and financial markets are more stable than
several months ago,” Kim said today. “Our monetary policy can
pay more attention to inflation if global financial markets are
stabilized further.”  The central bank and government forecast 3.7 percent growth
this year after a 3.6 percent gain last year. The  Bank of Korea 
will revise its December estimates on April 16. Overseas
shipments, equivalent to half of the economy, slid 1.4 percent
last month from a year earlier while  inflation  moderated to a
20-month low of 2.6 percent in March.  Geopolitical Risks  “The pace of global economic recovery will be moderate,”
the BOK said. “Risk factors still exist, including the
sovereign debt problems in  Europe  and geopolitical risks in the
 Middle East .”  Moody’s Investors Service raised South Korea’s credit
rating outlook to positive from stable on April 2, citing “very
strong and improving fiscal fundamentals.” The rating remains
at A1, the company’s fifth-highest grade.  Geopolitical factors and event risks associated with the
missile launch are already accounted for in Moody’s rating
methodology and positive outlook on  South Korea ’s A1 rating,
said  Tom Byrne , senior vice president at Moody’s Investors
Service in  Singapore .  New Board  South Korea’s finance ministry today recommended Chung Hae Bang, a former official at the Ministry of Planning and Budget
and professor at Konkuk University, as a new board member at the
central bank’s policy-setting committee, according to an e-
mailed statement from the ministry. Chung will replace Kang
Myung Hun whose four-year term ends on April 20.  Separately, the nation’s financial regulator recommended Ha Sung Keun, professor emeritus at Yonsei University, to replace
Choi Do Soung as a board member. The Bank of Korea recommended
Seoul National University professor Moon Woo Sik to succeed Kim
Dae Sik. The Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry said it
recommended former Hyundai Motor Co. President Chung Soon Won to
fill a seat that has been empty since April 2010.  All four candidates are subject to President Lee’s
approval, according to the central bank’s law.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  