-- South Africa’s ANC to Discuss Doing Business With Nedbank
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2012-04-13T14:15:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/south-africa-s-anc-to-discuss-doing-business-with-nedbank-1-.html
South Africa’s ruling party will
discuss whether it “makes sense” to bank with  Nedbank Group
Ltd. (NED)  after the lender’s chairman said the “moral quotient” of
the nation’s political leadership was “degenerating.”  “Insulting the political leadership in annual reports is
taking things too far,” African National Congress Secretary-
General Gwede Mantashe said today in an editorial in the
Johannesburg-based  New Age  newspaper. “When business develops
unpatriotic tendencies through their reckless pronouncements,
their sentiments are used by potential investors to measure the
wisdom of investing in their country.”  Nedbank Chairman Reuel Khoza, who was a presidential
adviser to the previous government of  Thabo Mbeki , said in the
lender’s  annual report  last month that the administration of
 Jacob Zuma  was “losing the checks and balances that are
necessary to prevent a recurrence of the past.” Zuma, who
ousted Mbeki in 2007, is preparing to fend off a challenge to
his leadership of the ANC at a party conference in December.  Today’s comments on Nedbank come as the government also
expressed concern about the wider banking industry, after
unsecured loans rose 53 percent to 101.1 billion rand ($12.8
billion) by the third quarter of 2011 from a year earlier.  Banking Crisis  “There is a huge crisis developing in the South African
banking industry,” Blade Nzimande,  South Africa ’s minister of
education, wrote in a separate editorial in New Age, citing the
jump in unsecured lending. “It is likely to lead to a serious
bubble, not dissimilar to that of the rest of the global banking
and financial sector, unless drastic action is taken.”  Linking the “alleged problems” of the banking industry to
the issues raised by Khoza leads to “uncertainty and
speculation,” said Cas Coovadia, managing director of the  South
African Banking Association .  “We should, as a country, be ensuring we don’t
jeopardize” bank stability, said Coovadia, adding that more
data must be gathered to understand the increase in unsecured
lending. “It is inappropriate to make public comments like the
banking industry is ‘facing the eye of a storm’ and that ‘there
is a huge crisis’.”  Since Khoza’s annual report comments, Nedbank, which is
controlled by  Old Mutual Plc (OML) , has been publicly criticized five
times by the government. The ANC must consider its relations
with Nedbank because the lender “sees government as foolish and
insane,” Mantashe said today.  No Threat  Government contracts changing hands have “never caused any
bank to fail” and should not do so in the future, Rene van Wyk,
South Africa’s Pretoria-based banking regulator, said in an e-
mailed response to questions. “All the major rating agencies
recently re-affirmed the financial strength of the major South
African banks on a stand-alone basis.”  Khoza’s comments came as the ANC prepares to debate changes
to South Africa’s constitution in June, City Press reported last
month, citing party documents. The ANC last year pushed a law
that proposes jail sentences of as long as 25 years for anyone
obtaining classified information, even if it’s in the public
interest.  “We observe the emergence of a strange breed of leaders
who are determined to undermine the rule of law and override the
constitution,” Khoza said in the report. “This is not the
accountable democracy for which generations suffered and
fought.”  Zuma Leadership  Zuma’s lack of a formal education and training in
intelligence services haven’t prepared him to lead South Africa,
Khoza wrote in his 2011 book “Attuned Leadership.” Zuma
doesn’t have the “complexity that is demanded of leadership in
the 21st century,” Khoza wrote in the book.  “People are uncertain and are searching for what this
country wants to be when it grows up,” Nicky Newton-King, chief
executive officer of JSE Ltd., which operates the country’s
stock exchange, told reporters in  Cape Town  today. “You should
be allowed to say what you want to say. You have the choice as
business as to whether you want to speak on the front page” of
newspapers or whether you “make the points you want to make
vigorously behind the scenes. Our particular style is to make it
vigorously behind the scenes.”  Nedbank doesn’t plan to comment further today, said Thulani Sibeko, a spokesman for South Africa’s fourth-biggest lender.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  