-- Spain Banks Boost Borrowing From ECB by 50 Percent in March
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-04-13T09:55:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/spain-banks-ecb-borrowings-climb-to-300-billion-in-march.html
Spanish banks’  borrowings  from the
 European Central Bank  jumped by almost 50 percent in March,
reaching the most on record, as lenders tap emergency loans and
channel some of it into sovereign debt purchases.  Average net borrowings  by Spanish banks climbed to 227.6
billion euros ($300 billion) last month from 152.4 billion euros
in February, the  Bank of Spain  said on its website today.
Spanish lenders took 29 percent of the total long-term loans
offered to euro-region banks, the data showed. That includes the
three-year long-term refinancing operation loans known as LTRO.  Spanish banks are using some of the emergency loans to
support the nation’s debt market as Treasury data shows banks
have piled up holdings of Spanish bonds. While that helped tame
the country’s borrowing costs, it also meshes more closely
together the risks to lenders and the sovereign, Economy
Minister Luis de Guindos said this week.  “The whole point of the LTRO was to incentivize the banks
in ailing countries to take as much liquidity as they could, and
the Spanish banks have done just that,”  Gilles Moec , co-chief
European economist at Deutsche Bank, said by phone.  Yields Rise  Spanish bonds fell, pushing the 10-year  yield  to 5.93
percent at 11 a.m. in Madrid from 5.82 percent yesterday, and
widening the gap between Spanish and German borrowing costs to
416 basis points.  Shares of  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , Bankia SA and
Caixabank all fell about 2 percent in Madrid.  “A consequence of the ECB’s liquidity measures is that the
correlation between sovereign risk and banking risk increased
all over  Europe , since banks used the money to buy public
debt,” de Guindos said on April 11.  BBVA Chairman  Francisco Gonzalez  called on the ECB in
November to offer loans of three years to banks, saying lenders
could use them to buy  government bonds . Spanish banks’ holdings
of government debt jumped to 220 billion euros in January
compared with 178 billion euros in November, according to data
from the Spanish Treasury.  The ECB has lent European banks about 1 trillion euros in
the two three-year operations, the last of which was on Feb. 29.  “They have quite a significant war chest to continue to
buy sovereign bonds and that’s the positive news,” Moec said.
“They can continue to defend the sovereign.”  Spanish Share  In net terms, Spanish banks took more than 60 percent of
the amount taken by euro-region lenders as total net lending
rose to 361.7 billion euros from 322 billion euros in February,
the  data  today showed. That net figure is reached by subtracting
the funds that banks deposit at the ECB.  “The market will probably look at this and see it as a big
number, but it’s important to see it in perspective,” said
 David Owen , chief European economist at Jefferies International
Ltd. in  London .  The Spanish banking industry’s total assets amount to 3.67
trillion euros, and the net ECB lending is equivalent to about 6
percent of that figure. The equivalent number for  Portugal  is
9.7 percent, according to the latest available data.  Deputy Economy Minister Fernando Jimenez Latorre said today
it’s “reasonable” that Spanish banks took advantage of the
“interesting opportunity” presented by the LTRO loans.  Spain ’s  government  is trying to restore investor confidence
in the nation’s finances and local lenders as it implements the
deepest austerity measures in at least three decades and takes
steps to overhaul a shrinking economy. Parliament approved late
yesterday a bill to limit budget deficits and tighten the
central government’s grip on regions that overspend.  Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy’s cabinet plans to approve a
set of measures to fight  tax evasion  today as part of its
efforts to narrow the  budget deficit . The government, in power
since December, is seeking to slash the budget deficit to 5.3
percent of gross domestic product this year from last year’s 8.5
percent, even as the economy contracts and unemployment exceeds
23 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in  Madrid   at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  