-- Spanish Risk at Record High as Rajoy Struggles to Avoid Bailout
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2012-04-13T15:17:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/spain-default-swaps-rise-to-record-498-basis-points-cma-says.html
The cost of insuring against a
Spanish default jumped to a record as Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  struggles to prevent the nation from becoming the fourth
euro-region member to need a bailout.  Credit-default swaps on Spain rose 17 basis points to 498
as of 4 p.m. in London, surpassing the previous all-time high
closing price of 493, according to CMA. The contracts are up
from 431 at the start of the month and 380 at the end of 2011,
signalling a deterioration in investor perceptions of  credit
quality .  “Spain is viewed as the next most likely to be in need of
a financing program,” said  Brian Barry , an analyst at Investec
Bank Plc in London. “It’s not surprising to see CDS widening.”  Rajoy, in power with his interim administration since
December, said yesterday that the country won’t need a bailout
and that it’s “not possible to rescue  Spain .” His attempts to
reassure investors with the deepest austerity measures in at
least three decades are falling flat, with government  bond
yields  rising to near the levels that drove  Greece , Ireland and
Portugal to seek international cash.  Spain will approve a crackdown on tax fraud today as part
of its efforts to plug the  budget deficit . A report showed that
lenders increased their  borrowings  from the  European Central
Bank  by almost 50 percent in March to the most on record.  Yields Rise  The rate on Spain’s 10-year note rose 17 basis points today
to 5.99 percent, 21 basis points up from a week ago. Royal Bank
of Canada said in a note that rising borrowing costs increased
the chances that the country will seek some sort of external
aid, such as having a European Union bailout fund buy up its
debt.  Sovereign insurance costs also rose elsewhere, with the
Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of default swaps on 15
governments climbing four basis point to 278.5. The gauge was at
265.5 basis points on April 3.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros ($13.1 million) of debt for five years is
equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value
in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in  London  at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  