-- Spanish Bonds Slide as Draghi Panacea Found Wanting: Euro Credit
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-04-13T07:47:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/spanish-bonds-slide-as-draghi-panacea-found-wanting-euro-credit.html
Spanish and German  government bonds 
are signaling the respite in the euro-region’s debt crisis
created by the  European Central Bank ’s unlimited three-year
loans is coming to an end.  Two weeks after Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said the
“flames of crisis” are unlikely to return, German bund yields
have fallen to records and Spanish borrowing costs have surged
to the highest since the ECB started its longer-term refinancing
operations in December. Spanish  10-year yields  rose above 6
percent this week, getting closer to the 7 percent level that
triggered the bailouts of Greece and  Portugal , as Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  said the country’s future is on the line.  “The positive effect of LTRO operations is now well on the
wane,” said Lyn Graham-Taylor, a fixed-income strategist at
Rabobank International in London. “We are well and truly back
in crisis mode.”  Spain ’s 10-year rates reached 6.02 percent on April 11, a
level last seen on Dec. 12, having climbed from this year’s low
of 4.83 percent on March 1. They were little changed today at
5.82 percent at 8:40 a.m. London time. Similar-maturity Italian
10-year yields are 5.41 percent, up from as low as 4.68 percent
on March 9.  Two-year German  note yields  dropped to a record 0.091
percent on April 10 as investors sought the safest securities.
Five-year rates declined to an all-time low 0.617 percent that
day and benchmark 10-year bund yields fell to 1.639 percent,
approaching the record 1.636 percent set on Sept. 23.  Three-Year Loans  The ECB, led by President  Mario Draghi , lent euro-area
banks more than 1 trillion euros ($1.32 trillion) at an interest
rate of 1 percent in its two LTROs: the first on Dec. 22 and the
second on Feb. 29. Banks are said to have used the funds to buy
bonds issued by the so-called peripheral nations such as Spain,
Italy and Portugal.  Spanish bonds maturing in a year or more returned 6.7
percent between the ECB announcing its loan program on Dec. 8
and Monti’s speech in  Tokyo  on March 28, according to indexes
compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies. Italian and Portuguese securities both
gained 14 percent in the same period, the indexes show.  Spain’s bonds have since slumped 2.8 percent, Italian debt
lost 1.7 percent and Portugal’s government securities declined
3.7 percent.  ‘Bear Flattening’  “The LTRO momentum is increasingly fading,” said  Michael Leister , a fixed-income strategist at DZ Bank AG in  Frankfurt .
“Spreads over bunds are widening and peripheral curves bear
flattening. The speed of the decline hasn’t surprised me, but
rather that the market had been so complacent before.”  Bear flattening refers to a situation where short-term
yields increase at a faster rate than longer-term securities,
reducing the slope of the so-called yield curve.  The extra yield investors demand to hold benchmark Spanish
securities instead of German bunds expanded to 437 basis points
on April 11, the widest since Nov. 28. The gap widened three
basis points today to 406 basis points.  “A spread of more than 400 basis points is obviously a
problem,” assuming it persists in the medium term, Spanish
Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said in Barcelona on April 11.
“The government needs to put the house in order because the
alternative is much worse.”  Italy’s 10-year yield spread over bunds increased to as
much as 409 basis points on April 11 from 276 on March 16. It
was at 365 basis points today.  Some strategists predict the increase in Spanish and
Italian bond yields will spur the ECB to announce a third round
of loans or additional bond purchases to help contain the
regional debt crisis.  ‘Great Job’  “We have the ECB and they’ve done a great job in securing
bank funding for three years,” Francesco Garzarelli, co-head of
global macro markets research at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in
 London , said yesterday in a Bloomberg Television interview with
Sara Eisen. “That has broken the link between sovereign and
bank funding to a large extent. Spain has disappointed markets
in March. It got some pressures. If these pressures escalate and
percolate to other countries, I would think the ECB would step
in at that point.”  ECB Executive Board member Benoit Coeure signaled on April
11 that the central bank may revive its bond-purchase program to
reduce Spanish borrowing costs.  “Will the ECB intervene?” Coeure said in Paris on April
11. “We have an instrument, the Securities Markets Program,
which hasn’t been used recently but it still exists.”  The ECB hasn’t purchased sovereign debt for four weeks,
according to the most recent data on its Securities Markets
Program released April 5.  “It’s very uncertain as to what the ultimate endgame for
the peripherals is at the moment,” said Edward Thomas, who
helps oversee $6 billion as head of fixed income at Quantum
Global Wealth Management, based in Zug,  Switzerland . “Even if
yields were 100 basis points higher than they are now, we would
not be looking to invest in Italian or Spanish debt.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net . 