-- Spanish Minister Asks ECB to Buy Bonds as Crisis Deepens
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-04-14T14:16:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/spanish-minister-calls-on-ecb-to-do-more-as-crisis-accelerates.html
A Spanish minister called on the
 European Central Bank  to do more to stem the sovereign debt
crisis as the cost of insuring the country’s bonds against
default surged to a record.  “They should step up purchases of bonds,” Jaime Garcia- Legaz, a deputy minister in Luis de Guindos’s Economy Ministry,
said yesterday in an interview.  His comments came as ECB officials split over the steps to
tame the crisis amid growing expectations that  Spain  will be the
next euro member to seek a European bailout. Spanish banks’
borrowings from the ECB surged almost 50 percent in March, data
showed yesterday, as they took almost a third of the longer-term
lending offered to euro-region institutions.  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  is struggling to convince
investors he can get Spain’s finances under control after last
month refusing to meet deficit targets set by the European
Commission and the previous government. While Rajoy said on
April 12 Spain won’t need a rescue, credit-default swaps rose 17
basis points to 498 yesterday, surpassing the all-time high
closing price of 493, according to CMA.  The yield on Spain’s 10-year bonds rose 16 basis points to
5.98 percent, edging closer to the 7 percent level that pushed
 Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  into rescues.  Rajoy’s austerity plan today won the support of leaders
from the 12 regions where his Peoples Party governs. There are
17 in total. The PP’s regional presidents pledged to cut public
services, eliminate duplication between different levels of
government and write deficit targets into their budget laws.  Extraordinary Measures  Garcia-Legaz’s comments go beyond those of his prime
minister, who has repeatedly praised the ECB’s extraordinary
liquidity measures. Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro referred
yesterday to the “importance of the role” of European
institutions in fighting the crisis.  “If you’re demanding ultra-restrictive fiscal policies
from Spain and  Italy  then it makes sense to have monetary policy
with stronger bond purchases,” said Garcia-Legaz, a former
secretary general of the Faes research institute that’s linked
to the ruling  People’s Party .  ECB officials are nevertheless struggling to present a
 united front  over what to do next as investors dump Spanish
bonds amid renewed concern about bad assets at the country’s
banks.  ECB Split  While Executive Board member Benoit Coeure signaled on
April 11 the bank may start buying Spanish bonds, his Dutch
colleague Klaas Knot said yesterday that the ECB is “very far”
from reactivating a policy that failed to stop a selloff in
Spanish bonds in November.  “I hope we never have to use it again,” he said in
Amsterdam.  Spanish yields surged above 6 percent in August, prompting
the ECB to start buying bonds, and reached 6.78 percent in
November before ECB President  Mario Draghi  said the bank would
offer financial institutions unlimited three-year loans.  That measure helped tame Spanish borrowing costs, as
institutions used ECB funds to pile up on the nation’s bonds.
Spanish banks’ holdings of government debt jumped to 220 billion
euros ($288 billion) in January from 178 billion euros in
November, according to data from the Treasury.  Net Borrowing  Average net borrowings  from the ECB by Spanish banks
climbed to 227.6 billion euros last month from 152.4 billion
euros in February, the  Bank of Spain  said yesterday on its
website. In net terms, they tapped more than 60 percent of the
amount taken by euro-region lenders.  Still, Garcia-Legaz, a former deputy director of Spain’s
Treasury who’s now in charge of trade, said Spain won’t have
trouble funding itself as the deficit cuts implemented since the
government took over in December bolster confidence. The central
government faces 11.9 billion euros of bond redemptions in April,
12.7 billion euros in July, and 20.2 billion euros in October,
 Treasury  data show.  “With the profile of redemptions it has and the
credibility that will be generated from the  deficit reduction ,
it won’t have problems financing itself,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  