-- Stockton Can Suspend Police Accrued Vacation Payouts, Judge Says
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2012-04-14T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/stockton-police-lose-bid-to-restore-accrued-vacation-pay-1-.html
Stockton (3654MF) , the central California
city trying to avert bankruptcy, can continue suspending accrued
vacation and sick time payouts for its retiring and departing
police officers, a state judge ruled.  San Joaquin County Superior Court Judge Lesley D. Holland
yesterday rejected the Stockton Police Officers’ Association’s
request for an order reinstating the pay. David E. Mastagni, a
lawyer representing the association, said some officers have
spent 30 years accruing the compensation.  “I’m proceeding on the assumption that bankruptcy, if not
a certainty, is a highly probable outcome,” Holland said. The
city is trying to remain solvent and win concessions from
creditors through negotiations under a state law designed to
discourage municipal bankruptcies, the judge said.  The 60 days of talks that started last month are an
“orderly process,” and “the city should have the time that
the Legislature has given it,” Holland said.  Stockton, a farming center about 80 miles (130 kilometers)
east of San Francisco, is struggling under escalating retiree
costs, dwindling  tax revenue , accounting errors and the
lingering effects of the recession. The city has said in a court
filings that it is “teetering precariously on the edge of
insolvency.”  City Default  The City Council on Feb. 28 agreed to extend its fiscal
emergency declaration, default on $2 million in bond payments
and suspend sick leave and vacation payouts to retiring workers.
Officials decided to suspend the payouts to discourage workers
who fear the mediation would lead to a cut in their benefits
from retiring early and draining city coffers.  On April 12, San Francisco-based  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the
fourth-largest  U.S. bank  by assets, was awarded possession of
three Stockton parking garages in a separate lawsuit it filed as
a bond trustee against the city. San Joaquin County Superior
Court Judge Roger Ross made the decision about who controls the
garages after Stockton missed a $779,935 payment on lease
revenue bonds issued in 2004.  Mastagni said he was disappointed by yesterday’s ruling. He
said the judge concluded the officers’ over-arching suit, which
accuses Stockton of illegally cutting police pay by about
30 percent by declaring an emergency rather than negotiating
concessions, has a chance of succeeding. That determination will
give the officer’s arguments more weight as a bankruptcy claim
if that’s what Stockton ends up doing, Mastagni said.  Jonathan V. Holtzman, a lawyer for the city, told Holland
at yesterday’s court hearing, “None of us will ever see a
better case for an emergency than the one that exists here.”  “The city is truly broke,” he said. “We are very close
to bankruptcy.”  Yesterday’s ruling permits Stockton to focus on mediation
“without having individual creditors elbow their way to the
front of the line,” Holtzman said after the hearing.  The case is Stockton Police Officers’ Association v. City
of Stockton, 39-2010-00245197, Superior Court of San Joaquin
County (Stockton).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at   smerelman@bloomberg.net  