-- Swedish Government Sees No Need for Broad Crisis Measures
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2012-04-13T10:56:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/swedish-government-sees-no-need-for-broad-crisis-measures.html
The Swedish government sees no need
for “broad crisis measures” to support the export-dependent
Nordic nation’s slowing economy.  The minority-government will prioritize measures to cut
youth unemployment and joblessness among immigrants, as well as
improve education and health care in next year’s budget, the
leaders of the four coalition parties said in an opinion piece
published today in Dagens Nyheter. It wants to raise the
competitiveness of Swedish companies by cutting corporate taxes,
which it last month signaled may be lowered by about 2
percentage points from 26.3 percent next year.  “The economic situation seems to be such that there is no
need for broad crisis measures,” Prime Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt  and the three other party leaders in the coalition
said. “It’s now about devoting the limited room for new reforms
to measures that prevent unemployment from remaining high, to
secure a stable and broad recovery and to reforms that produce a
lasting, increased employment, an improved economic standard for
vulnerable groups and a stronger welfare.”  The government will publish its spring budget on April 16.
The supplemental proposal offers broad policy outlines and
provides updated economic forecasts. Most major initiatives are
published in the main budget bill issued in the second half of
the year.  Finance Minister Anders Borg in February said economic
growth may slow to about 0.5 percent this year from 3.9 percent
in 2011, while Danske Bank A/S last week predicted a 0.5 percent
contraction. Sweden’s  economy  is struggling with slowing export
demand. About 70 percent of its sales abroad go to  Europe , which
is suffering from a public debt crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman in Stockholm at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  