-- Swiss Stocks Drop as China’s Growth Slows; ABB Retreats
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-04-13T16:00:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/swiss-stocks-drop-as-china-s-growth-slows-abb-retreats.html
Swiss stocks  fell, with the
country’s equity benchmark posting its longest streak of weekly
losses since November, as China’s economy slowed more than
forecast and concern about the euro-region debt crisis gained.  ABB Ltd. (ABBN) , the world’s biggest power-grid supplier, led a
drop in shares sensitive to economic growth. Cie. Financiere
Richemont SA, the second-largest maker of  luxury goods , also
retreated.  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the country’s two
biggest banks, followed a gauge of European lenders lower.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  slipped 0.9 percent to 6,072.12 at
the close in Zurich. The measure of Switzerland’s biggest and
most actively traded companies sank 1.5 percent this week, its
fourth straight decline. The gauge has still  gained 2.3 percent
in 2012  as the euro area sought to contain its debt crisis and
as U.S. economic reports surpassed estimates. The broader Swiss
Performance Index decreased 0.8 percent today.  “We remain in a cycle that began in 2007, marked by
periods of strong rebounds followed closely by market
corrections,” Francois Moute, chairman of Neuflize Private
Assets in Paris, and Chief Executive Officer Olivia Giscard d’Estaing wrote in a note. “In our opinion, this means it’s
best to remain cautious.”  The volume of shares changing hands in the SMI was 8.3
percent higher today than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ECB Bond Program  Swiss stocks extended their decline as European Central
Bank Governing Council member Klaas Knot said that officials
remain far from reviving their purchases of  government bonds .  “I think that we are very far from that situation, the
instrument hasn’t been used for some time, but it’s still there,
I hope we never have to use it again,” Knot said at an event in
Amsterdam today, when asked about the need for the ECB to buy
government bonds.  The cost of insuring against a Spanish default jumped to a
record as Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  struggles to prevent the
nation from becoming the fourth euro-region member to need a
bailout. Credit-default swaps on Spain rose 17 basis points to
498 as of 4 p.m. in London, surpassing the previous all-time
high closing price of 493, according to CMA.  Growth in  China’s economy , the world’s second biggest,
slowed last quarter more than forecast to the weakest pace in
almost three years.  Gross domestic product  rose 8.1 percent from
a year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics in Beijing
said today. That was a slower rate than the  8.4 percent growth
predicted  in a Bloomberg News survey.  U.S. Economy  A report today showed that the cost of living in the U.S.
increased at a slower pace in March. Consumer-price inflation
climbed 0.3 percent, matching the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. The index increased 0.4 percent in
February. A separate release showed that  consumer sentiment  fell
to 75.7 in April from 76.2 at the end of last month, missing the
average economist estimate.  ABB lost 1.8 percent to 17.89 Swiss francs.  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) ,
the world’s second-largest cement maker, slid 2.3 percent to
56.25 francs.  Richemont, which generated  48 percent of its sales from
Asia  in its last financial year, decreased 2.3 percent to 55.60
francs.  Swatch Group AG (UHR) , the biggest maker of Swiss watches,
slipped 1.7 percent to 419.70 francs. The watchmaker made  54
percent of its revenue in Asia  last year.  UBS, Credit Suisse  UBS declined 2.4 percent to 11.52 francs. Credit Suisse
lost 3.8 percent to 23.60 francs. Bank stocks retreated 3.1
percent for the biggest drop among the 19 industry groups in the
 Stoxx Europe 600 Index. (SXXP)   Flughafen Zuerich AG (FHZN) , operator of the Zurich Airport, slid
3.5 percent to 334.25 francs. Credit Suisse is placing 368,270
shares on behalf of CP2 Ltd., terms of the deal obtained by
Bloomberg News show.  Newron Pharmaceuticals SpA (NWRN) , a biotechnology company,
advanced 4 percent to 3.93 francs. Jefferies Group Inc. raised
its share-price forecast to 4.30 francs from 3 francs.  Aryzta AG (ARYN) , the maker of specialty bakery products, added
2.1 percent to 44.05 francs. The stock was initiated with an
 outperform  rating at CA Cheuvreux.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  