-- Switzerland, Austria Agree to Settle in Tax-Evasion Dispute
-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2012-04-13T14:13:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/switzerland-austria-agree-to-settle-in-tax-evasion-dispute-1-.html
Switzerland  and Austria reached an
agreement to end a dispute over  tax evasion  by wealthy Austrians
holding offshore accounts with Swiss private banks.  “Under this agreement, persons resident in Austria can
retrospectively tax their existing banking relationships in
Switzerland either by making a one-off tax payment or by
disclosing their accounts,” Switzerland said in a statement
today.  The accord comes after Switzerland agreed in March 2009 to
meet international standards to avoid being blacklisted as a tax
haven by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development. The settlement may trigger outflows by Austrians
who question the value of cross-border accounts as Swiss banking
secrecy crumbles and follows a similar agreement with Germany
and the U.K. last year.  The agreement with  Austria , which is expected to come into
force in 2013 and requires approval from both countries’
parliaments, will tax existing assets at a rate from 15 percent
to 38 percent, depending on the duration of the client
relationship and the amount of capital. Swiss banks will in the
future levy 25 percent on  capital gains  earned by Austrians with
offshore accounts. Revenue generated will go to the Austrian
 Finance Ministry , while client identities remain secret.  Future Agreements  Austria has said that it expects to raise 1 billion euros
($1.3 billion) from the one-time levy in 2013 and has budgeted
this revenue for next year.  “It can be positively noted that both an upfront payment
and the system control measures have been waived,” the  Swiss
Bankers Association  said in a statement following today’s
announcement. “This sends out a clear signal for future tax
agreements with other European countries.”  As part of the previous accords, Swiss banks agreed to pay
2 billion Swiss francs ($2.2 billion) to the German government
and 500 million Swiss francs to the U.K.  Switzerland is trying to restart tax talks with Italy,
Swiss Finance Minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf said in an
interview with 24 Heures published today. While there was
contact with French Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  over the
“winter,” tax negotiations with France will have to wait until
after the presidential election, the paper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Tirone at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net  