-- U.K. March Producer Prices Increased More Than Forecast: Economy
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-04-13T10:13:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/u-k-producer-prices-increased-more-than-forecast-in-march-1-.html
U.K.  factory-output prices  and raw-
material costs rose more than economists forecast in March,
suggesting inflation pressures remain in the economy.  The price of goods at factory gates increased 0.6 percent
from February, the  Office for National Statistics  said today in
London. The median forecast of 20 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a 0.5 percent gain. Raw material costs rose 1.9
percent, exceeding a median estimate of 1.4 percent.  While  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  maintains that
the U.K. economy’s predicament still feels “like a crisis,”
policy makers  Martin Weale  and  Spencer Dale  have shown concern
about consumer-price growth slowing less than projected.
Officials refrained last week from increasing emergency stimulus
before new growth and inflation forecasts due next month.  “It all adds to the pressure to at least bring
quantitative easing to a halt for now,” said  Brian Hilliard , an
economist at  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  in  London  and a former Bank of
England official. “The signals on growth are still very weak. I
don’t think the Monetary Policy Committee is going to have any
serious concerns.”  The pound was little changed after the release, trading at
$1.5920 as of 9:39 a.m. in London. The yield on the two-year
government bond was also little changed at 0.396 percent.  Producer prices climbed for a third month, gaining in six
out of 10 categories. The biggest increases were in petroleum
products and tobacco and alcohol. From a year earlier, prices
rose 3.6 percent, compared with a 4.1 percent gain in February,
the statistics office said.  Chinese Growth  Core producer prices, which exclude costs of food, alcohol,
tobacco and petroleum, rose 0.1 percent in the month and 2.5
percent from a year earlier.  In  Asia ,  China ’s growth slowed more than forecast last
quarter to the least in almost three years, prompting economists
to predict a rebound as Premier  Wen Jiabao  loosens policy to
counter weak domestic and European demand.  Gross domestic product in the world’s second-biggest
economy expanded 8.1 percent from a year earlier after an 8.9
percent gain in the fourth quarter, the  National Bureau of
Statistics  said in Beijing today.  The cost of living in the U.S. probably rose at a slower
pace in March as the run-up in energy prices lost steam,
economists said before a report today.  U.K. Inflation  The consumer-price index increased 0.3 percent last month
after rising 0.4 percent in February, according to the median
forecast of 80 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Core
prices may have climbed 0.2 percent.  U.K. inflation slowed less than economists forecast in
February as higher alcohol and food costs helped keep consumer-
price gains above the Bank of England’s upper limit. Consumer
prices rose 3.4 percent from a year earlier, the least since
November 2010, compared with 3.6 percent in January.  James Halstead Plc (JHD) , a U.K. maker of branded commercial
flooring products, said on March 29 that raw-materials prices
“remain relatively high” and that the company continues to
face “challenging conditions.”  Input prices rose because of higher oil costs. They
increased by 5.8 percent in March from a year earlier, the
statistics office said.  A report last week by Markit Economics and the Chartered
Institute of Purchasing and Supply showed that U.K.
manufacturing growth unexpectedly accelerated in March to the
fastest in 10 months as inflation pressures also increased.
Manufacturers reported higher costs for electronic components,
metals, oil, plastics and transportation in March.  In a separate report, the statistics office said
construction output increased in February from the previous
month, according to raw data unadjusted for seasonal swings. In
the quarter through February, it fell 15.6 percent from the
prior three months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  