-- U.K. Keeps Stable AAA Outlook as S&P Disagrees With Fitch
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-04-14T10:25:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/u-k-s-top-rating-affirmed-as-stable-at-s-p-as-debt-seen-peaking.html
Britain kept its AAA grade with a
stable outlook at Standard & Poor’s as the ratings company
disagreed with Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings on
the risks to the government’s ability to pay its debts.  The coalition led by Prime Minister  David Cameron  will
succeed in maintaining its focus on curbing the  budget deficit ,
S&P said in a statement yesterday in London, as it praised the
nation’s political institutions for their capacity to react
“quickly” to economic challenges.  “The stable outlook reflects our current expectation that
the U.K. government will implement the bulk of its fiscal
consolidation program and that  economic growth  will not falter
more than what we currently project,” the ratings company said
in the statement.  The decision contrasts with those of Moody’s and Fitch,
both of which warned in the past two months that the U.K. faces
the risk of losing its top grade. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  has drawn on such threats to insist that the
government “cannot waver” from its deficit-cutting commitment,
which he reaffirmed in his March 21 budget.  “The budget showed we are ready to go on making the
difficult decisions that are keeping our country safe,” Osborne
said in a statement yesterday. S&P’s AAA rating “is a reminder
that Britain is weathering the international debt storms because
of the policies we have adopted and stuck to in tough times,”
he said.  Drag on Growth  While the government’s austerity plan will “likely drag on
economic growth,” S&P said that “the U.K. economy’s capacity
to absorb shocks has improved.”  S&P also forecast the U.K. deficit will reach 4 percent of
gross domestic product in the fiscal year ending in 2016, more
than the 2.9 percent government estimate, as economic growth
will probably fall short of the  Office for Budget
Responsibility ’s forecasts. Government debt will peak in 2014,
the ratings company said.  Osborne last month maintained his plan to eliminate most of
the budget deficit by 2017 in the biggest squeeze on public
spending since World War II.  Moody’s published its decision to place the U.K.’s rating
on negative outlook on Feb. 14, saying that the nation risks
losing the grade if the economy deteriorates. Fitch followed on
March 15, less than a week before the budget, noting that
Britain has a limited ability to deal with shocks.  “We expect the U.K. political consensus on fiscal policy
will broadly hold for the near future, and that the government
will implement the measures specified in its fiscal
consolidation program in order to achieve its targeted
savings,” S&P said in its statement yesterday.  The stable outlook reflects S&P’s view that the government
can keep cutting the deficit, that net debt as a percentage of
GDP will stabilize by 2014, and that “the economic recovery
will gain traction over the medium term,” the ratings company
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in  London  at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  