-- U.K. Stocks Fall as China’s Growth Slows; BSkyB Declines
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-04-13T16:13:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/u-k-stocks-fall-as-chinese-growth-slows-to-3-year-low.html
U.K. (SXXP)  stocks declined, with the  FTSE
100 (UKX)  Index posting its fourth straight weekly loss, after  China ’s
growth slowed more than forecast last quarter.  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc fell 2.3 percent after a
report News Corp. will face civil lawsuits in the U.S. over
phone-hacking claims.  Sage (SGE)  Group Plc lost 2.6 percent after
Jefferies Group Inc. recommended clients hold the stock rather
than buying more.  The FTSE 100 fell 58.67, or 1 percent, to 5,651.79 at the
close in London, extending this week’s drop to 1.3 percent. The
broader FTSE All-Share Index also declined 1 percent today,
while Ireland’s ISEQ Index slid 0.5 percent.  “Markets still remain fragile and vulnerable,” said
Markus Huber, an equity-sales trader at ETX Capital in  London .
“Growth data out of China was slightly disappointing.”  The FTSE 100 advanced 1.3 percent yesterday after the
 Federal Reserve  said the world’s biggest economy maintained its
expansion in all 12 of the central bank’s regions.  China’s economy, the world’s second biggest, slowed last
quarter more than forecast to the weakest pace in almost three
years.  Gross domestic product  rose 8.1 percent from a year
earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics in Beijing said
today. That was less than the 8.4 percent growth predicted in a
 Bloomberg News survey . Analysts at Bank of America Corp., Nomura
Holdings Inc. and IHS Global Insight said the first quarter may
mark a trough.  ECB Bond Purchases  The  European Central Bank  will restart its controversial
government bond purchases rather than offer banks another round
of unlimited three-year loans as the sovereign-debt crisis
worsens, a survey of economists shows.  Of 22 economists polled this week, 17 predicted that the
ECB will resume the  Securities Markets Program (ECBCSMP) , while only one
forecast it will offer another batch of three-year cash. Nine
said the central bank may consider shorter maturity loans of one
or two years.  Copper declined on the London Metal Exchange as China’s GDP
release raised concern about demand the metal.  BSkyB slipped 2.3 percent to 647 pence after the Financial
Times reported that British lawyer Mark Davies said he will file
three civil lawsuits against Rupert Murdoch’s News Corp. in U.S.
courts on behalf of alleged victims of phone hacking. The FBI
and the Department of Justice are probing the company, which
owns 39 percent of  BSkyB. (BSY)   Sage fell 2.6 percent to 287.7 pence after Jefferies
recommended clients against expanding their holdings of the
U.K.’s largest software maker. Indian competitor Infosys Ltd.
forecast sales that missed analysts’ estimates.  Logica Plc (LOG) , an Anglo-Dutch computer services provider,
slipped 3.3 percent to 80.85 pence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  