-- S&P 500 Caps Biggest Weekly Decline in 2012 on Economy
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-04-13T20:43:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/u-s-stock-index-futures-decline-as-china-s-growth-slows.html
U.S. stocks fell, giving the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index its biggest weekly decline in 2012,
as consumer confidence dropped, China’s growth slowed and the
cost of insuring against a Spanish default rose to a record.  Financial (S5FINL)  shares dropped the most among 10 industries in
the S&P 500, following a plunge in  European lenders .  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  retreated at least 3.6
percent. Technology shares, which account for  21 percent  of the
S&P 500, fell 1.6 percent as a group today and had the first
weekly slump this year.  Google Inc. (GOOG)  tumbled 4.1 percent as the
world’s largest Internet-search company plans a new stock
structure that gives management more leeway in issuing shares.  The S&P 500 slid 1.3 percent to 1,370.26 at 4 p.m. New York
time, extending its weekly decline to 2 percent. It fell a
second week for the longest losing streak since  November. (SPX)  The
 Dow Jones Industrial Average  lost 136.99 points, or 1.1 percent,
to 12,849.59. About  6.2 billion  shares changed hands on U.S.
exchanges today, or 9 percent below the three-month average.  “Let’s not get overly concerned, but yes, there are
concerns out there that we need to look at,” Brad Sorensen,
director of market and sector analysis at San Francisco-based
Charles Schwab Corp., which has $1.81 trillion in client assets,
said in a telephone interview. “China has been disappointing,
U.S. consumer confidence adds to the pressure and Europe is not
out of the woods yet.”  Stocks fell as  confidence  among U.S. consumers cooled in
April from a one-year high. China’s growth slowed to the least
in almost three years. Credit-default swaps on Spain surged as
Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy struggles to prevent the nation
from becoming the fourth euro-region member to need a bailout.  Back-to-Back  Today’s decline in stocks follows the biggest two-day rally
in 2012. The S&P 500, which had the  best  first-quarter since
1998, was still up 9 percent this year as investors bought
stocks amid better-than-estimated economic data and expectations
that Europe would tame its debt crisis.  “The first quarter was a relief that things were not going
to be as bad,” said  Virginie Maisonneuve , head of global
equities at Schroder Investment Management Ltd., which oversees
$291 billion, said in a phone interview from London. “Since
then, there are question marks of liquidity. We have a lot of
liquidity in the world, but what next?”  Concern about the global financial system drove banks lower
even after JPMorgan and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  reported earnings that
beat estimates. The  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  slumped 3.1 percent as all of
its 24 stocks retreated. Bank of America sank 5.3 percent, the
most in the Dow, to $8.68. JPMorgan lost 3.6 percent to $43.21.
Wells Fargo dropped 3.5 percent to $32.84.  Earnings Season  Quarterly reports scheduled for next week include  Citigroup
Inc. (C) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Bank of America  and some of the
largest technology companies. International Business Machines
Corp., which  comprises  12 percent of the Dow; Intel Corp., the
world’s biggest chipmaker; and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the largest
software maker, are due to announce their results.  Yum! Brands
Inc. (YUM) , which surged 2.8 percent to $72.86 today for the biggest
gain in the  S&P 500 , is also scheduled to report.  While S&P 500 per-share profit growth slowed to 1.7 percent
during the first three months of the year from 4.9 percent in
the fourth quarter, it will accelerate to 8.6 percent during all
of 2012, according to analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Google tumbled 4.1 percent to $624.60 even as earnings beat
estimates. The bid to preserve control for founders  Larry Page 
and  Sergey Brin  raised concern among corporate-governance
watchdogs. Google unveiled a plan that lets the company issue
new shares without diluting the founders’ voting power.  New Class  The stock change would create a new class of nonvoting
shares that will be distributed to existing shareholders in what
is effectively a 2-for-1 stock split. For investors, the result
is a lack of input on decision making, said  Charles Elson ,
director of the University of Delaware’s John L. Weinberg Center
for Corporate Governance.  “Shareholder voting rights are pretty limited in Google,”
he said. “And this basically perpetuates that reality.”  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  sank 2.8 percent, the most since October, to
$605.23. After rising to a record on April 9, the most valuable
technology company fell for a fourth day in the longest losing
streak since December.  Coinstar Inc. (CSTR)  surged 7.3 percent to $65.78. The owner of
the Redbox movie-rental kiosks said first-quarter sales and
profit exceeded its previous  projection  and lifted its earnings
forecast for 2012 to at least $4.40 a share.  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  advanced 1.6 percent to $33.20. The
largest U.S. chemicals producer increased its quarterly  dividend 
to 32 cents a share from 25 cents.  Leveraged Buyout  Safeway Inc. (SWY)  rose 2.5 percent to $21.19. The grocer may be
considering options such as a leveraged  buyout  or Reverse Morris
Trust, according to JPMorgan.  Johnson Controls Inc. (JCI)  added 2.3 percent to $32.57. The
largest U.S. auto supplier was boosted to  buy  from hold at
Deutsche Bank AG.  Concern about the global financial system’s stability has
grown so much during the past two weeks that investors ought to
take less risk, according to  Bank of America ’s Merrill Lynch
unit.  Forty market-related gauges go into the Bank of America
indicator, and 10 of them surged far enough to send a so-called
critical stress signal three days ago. The “risk-off” warning
was the first since July 12, just before a second-half retreat
in stocks got under way.  “We recommend caution,” Benjamin Bowler, head of global
derivatives research, and two colleagues wrote in a report two
days ago. The MSCI All-Country World Index declined by an
average of 3.8 percent in periods when the signal was in place
since 2000, the report said.  Stress Index  The stress index’s components reflects the potential
worsening of a euro-region debt crisis, according to Bowler,
based in San Francisco, and Anders Armelius and Abhinandan Deb,
his London-based colleagues.  Credit-default swap rates for government borrowers are
showing the most stress, according to their data. A CDS-based
based indicator was at 4.1 three days ago. Readings above zero
show stress is higher than normal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  