-- U.S. Said to Halt North Korean Food Aid After Rocket
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-04-13T05:05:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/u-s-said-to-halt-north-korean-food-aid-after-rocket-launch-1-.html
The U.S. will halt planned
shipments of thousands of tons in food aid to  North Korea  after
the reclusive Asian nation’s launch of a long-range rocket, two
Obama administration officials said.  The rocket launch means the U.S. will suspend 240,000 tons
of food aid promised as part of a February agreement by North
Korea to halt nuclear and missile tests, according to the
officials, who weren’t authorized to discuss the matter publicly
and spoke on condition of anonymity.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration sought to keep
North Korea from conducting the launch. The test complicates
U.S.-led efforts to engage North Korea after Kim Jong Un took
control following the December death of his father,  Kim Jong Il .  North Korea’s rocket launch was a failed effort that
nonetheless violated international law and jeopardized regional
security, White House Press Secretary  Jay Carney  said.  “Despite the failure of its attempted missile launch,
North Korea’s provocative action threatens regional security,
violates international law and contravenes its own recent
commitments,” Carney said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  North Korea said today that the satellite carried by the
rocket failed to enter its preset orbit, according to the state-
run Korean Central News Agency.  No Threat From Missile  The U.S. military tracked the rocket and said its first
stage fell into the Yellow Sea 165 kilometers (102 miles) west
of  Seoul , according to a North American Aerospace Defense
Command statement yesterday. The launch was detected at 6:39
p.m.  Washington  time yesterday, NORAD said.  “The remaining stages were assessed to have failed and no
debris fell on land,” NORAD said in its statement, identifying
the missile as a Taepodong-2. “At no time were the missile or
the resultant debris a threat.”  The launch was in part a propaganda move, and its failure
will have internal ramifications for North Korea’s government,
according to one of the administration officials who spoke on
condition of anonymity.  The food aid had been contingent on U.S. ability to monitor
its delivery and provocations such as the launch now made that
impossible, the official said.  Foreign ministers from the Group of Eight nations condemned
North Korea’s action and urged its government to refrain from
future launches using ballistic missile technology or any other
action that might heighten regional tensions, according to a
statement issued in Washington yesterday. The G-8’s members
include Russia, Italy, the U.K., France, Canada, Japan, Germany
and the U.S.  Security Council  The ministers said the launch violated United Nations
 Security Council  resolutions. They called on North Korea’s
government to comply with relevant UN resolutions and said they
were ready to consider asking the Security Council for an
“appropriate response,” according to the statement.  The Security Council plans to hold an emergency session
today, according to a diplomat who spoke on the condition of
anonymity because he wasn’t authorized to comment publicly.  Republican Senator  Jon Kyl  of  Arizona  said the launch
illustrated North Korea’s “complete disregard for international
sanctions and its proclivity for worthless commitments,”
according to an e-mailed statement yesterday from his office.  Kyl called on the Obama administration to cease its “naïve
negotiations” with North Korea’s government and to “instead
focus on fully funding missile defenses that can protect the
 United States  from ballistic missile threats.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Talev  in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  