-- U.S. Michigan Consumer Sentiment Decreased to 75.7 in Apr
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-04-13T20:33:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/u-s-michigan-consumer-sentiment-decreased-to-75-7-in-april.html
Confidence among U.S. consumers
cooled in April from a one-year high, a sign the moderation in
job growth may limit the biggest part of the economy.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan’s preliminary
index of  sentiment  dropped to 75.7 from 76.2 last month. The
measure was projected to be unchanged, according to a median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  Tempered optimism follows the slowest month of job growth
since October and a drop in weekly earnings that may restrain
household purchases that account for about 70 percent of the
economy. Another report showed consumer prices advanced at a
slower pace in March, giving Federal Reserve policy makers room
to maintain low borrowing costs.  “There’s less supporting an improvement in sentiment than
there was a few months ago,” said Jeremy Lawson, a senior U.S.
economist at BNP Paribas in New York. “Disposable incomes of
consumers are still being squeezed. That does make it difficult
for consumption to accelerate from here.”  Estimates for the Michigan sentiment gauge from the 71
economists surveyed by Bloomberg ranged from 74 to 78.5. The
index averaged 64.2 during the last recession. It averaged 89 in
the five years before the 18-month economic slump that ended in
June 2009.  Stocks fell, giving the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index its
biggest weekly decline of the year, as confidence waned,  China ’s
growth slowed and the cost of insuring against a Spanish default
rose to a record. The  S&P 500  decreased 1.3 percent to 1,370.26
at the close in New York, extending the weekly drop to 2
percent.  Bloomberg Measure  Today’s sentiment data follow yesterday’s Bloomberg
Consumer Comfort Index, which eased after reaching a four-year
high. The index was minus 32.8 in the week ended April 8 from
the minus 31.4, the highest since March 2008.  The Michigan index of  current conditions , which reflects
Americans’ perceptions of their financial situation and whether
it’s a good time to buy big-ticket goods like cars, declined to
a four-month low of 80.6 in April from 86 a month earlier.  The gauge of consumer  expectations  for six months from now,
which more closely projects the direction of  consumer spending ,
climbed to 72.5 this month, the highest since September 2009,
from 69.8 in March.  “The sentiment numbers will improve in the months ahead,”
said  Russell Price , senior economist at Ameriprise Financial
Inc. in  Detroit . Price was the most accurate forecaster of
Michigan sentiment in the two years through last month,
according to the latest data compiled by Bloomberg. The recent
decline in “gas prices will stick and the job numbers will
improve. The path ahead is still positive.”  Labor Market  The labor market showed signs of cooling in March.
Employers added 120,000 jobs during the month, half as many as
in February, Labor Department figures showed last week. The
 unemployment rate  fell to 8.2 percent, a three-year low, as more
Americans left the  labor force .  A report yesterday showed first-time applications for
jobless benefits rose last week to 380,000, the highest since
Jan. 28, Labor Department statistics showed.  At the same time, gasoline prices have leveled off close to
$4 a gallon. The  average cost  of a gallon was $3.90 yesterday,
down from a 10-month high of $3.94 that was reached April 5,
according to AAA, the nation’s largest automobile association.  The consumer-price index climbed 0.3 percent after a 0.4
percent gain in February as the run-up in energy costs eased,
according to today’s Labor Department data. Prices increased 2.7
percent in the 12 months ended in March, the smallest 12-month
gain in a year.  Cotton Prices  Companies like Levi Strauss & Co. and Jos. A. Bank
Clothiers Inc. may find it difficult to raise prices as 12.7
million Americans remain unemployed, almost twice the number at
the end of the last expansion. Less inflation would give the Fed
room to keep  interest rates  near zero to spur the economic
recovery and boost employment.  Fed officials, who’ve said energy costs will probably
subside, have indicated they will hold off on more monetary
stimulus unless prices rise more slowly than their 2 percent
target or the economic expansion falters, according to the
minutes of their March 13 meeting. Their preferred price gauge,
issued by the Commerce Department and tied to consumer spending,
rose 2.3 percent in the year ended in February.  Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  endorsed the central bank’s
“highly accommodative” policy this week, stating the Fed
probably won’t meet its goal of full employment for years while
inflation will remain in check.  Fed’s Goal  “I anticipate that we will fall far short in achieving our
maximum employment objective, and I expect inflation to remain
at or below” the Fed’s goal, Yellen said in a speech in  New
York . Economic growth “will be sufficient to lower unemployment
only gradually from this point forward,” Yellen said.  Consumers in today’s confidence report said they expect an
inflation rate of 3.4 percent over the next 12 months, down from
3.9 percent in March.  Over the next five years, the range tracked by Fed policy
makers, Americans expect a 3 percent rate of inflation, matching
March as the highest since June.  Even with the recent pickup since late last year, consumer
sentiment is still limited, according to Brian Jenkins, chief
financial officer at Dallas-based Dave & Buster’s Inc., which
operates restaurant entertainment complexes.  “They are better than they were a couple of years ago, but
it’s certainly not a robust tailwind as it relates to the
consumer right now,” Jenkins said in an April 12 earnings call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  