-- U.S. Company Credit-Default Swaps Climb on Europe Crisis
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-04-13T21:55:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/u-s-company-default-swaps-climb-for-first-time-in-three-days.html
A benchmark gauge of U.S. credit
risk rose for the first time in three days after the cost to
protect against losses on Spanish debt reached a record high,
stoking concern that  Europe ’s fiscal crisis may spread globally.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
climbed 5.3 basis points to a mid-price of 102.1 basis points at
4:58 p.m. in New York, according to Markit Group Ltd. The cost
to protect debt issued by Wells Fargo & Co. increased after the
bank reported earnings.  “The risk hasn’t gone away,”  Scott MacDonald , head of
research at MC Asset Management Holdings LLC in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , said in a telephone interview. “It’s not even
looming on the horizon -- it’s here.”  The gauge advanced as Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
struggles to prevent the nation from becoming the fourth euro-
region member to need a bailout. Credit-default swaps on  Spain 
rose to 498, topping the all-time high of 493 set Nov. 23
according to data provider CMA. Earlier the National Bureau of
Statistics said in Beijing that gross domestic product in the
world’s second-biggest economy expanded 8.1 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier after an 8.9 percent gain in the
previous period.  The swaps index, which typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves, tumbled 5.3
basis points yesterday, the most since Dec. 20.  Focusing on Risk  “We’re in the middle of the repricing,” MacDonald said.
“We had a couple good days, but that’s because people decided
they wanted to ignore all the risk that sits out there.”  Contracts tied to  Wells Fargo (WFC) ’s debt climbed 5.3 basis
points to 97.5 basis points, according to CMA, which is owned by
CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  Wells Fargo reported first-quarter earnings that topped
analysts’ estimates on a surge in mortgage fees. Still, it faced
higher charges related to mortgage lawsuits and set aside $430
million to cover mortgage repurchase claims, an increase from
the $404 million in the fourth quarter.  Contracts on General Electric Co.’s finance unit General
Electric Capital Corp. increased 13.4 basis points to 173.2, and
those on  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , which reports  earnings  on
April 17, added 16.5 to 276.5, the data show, as the firm
awarded Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein
35 percent less in total compensation than a year earlier.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  