-- Ultimate Fighting, Boxing on Pay TV Spark ‘Pirate’ Lawsuits
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2012-04-14T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/ultimate-fighting-boxing-on-pay-tv-spark-pirate-lawsuits.html
On the evening of May 8, 2010, Juan
Castillo walked into Plaza  Mexico  Bar & Grill in a strip mall in
Laredo, Texas, paid the $5 cover to a woman in a flowery dress,
went inside and ordered a Coors Light.  He began watching the televised Ultimate Fighting
Championship bout between Josh Koscheck and Paul Daley. He saw
Koscheck getting kicked in the eye during the mixed martial arts
fight. In the 25 minutes Castillo was in the restaurant, he
counted 80 patrons. He took three photographs.  Castillo’s statement about what he saw led to a court order
for Plaza Mexico to give the UFC’s distributor $32,500 for not
paying the $1,100 commercial fee to show the pay-per-view event.
Promoters such as  Joe Hand Promotions Inc. (0080551D)  and the UFC itself
have filed thousands of suits against bars, restaurants and
other U.S. businesses to punish such “pirates,” claiming they
and residential cheaters cost them millions of dollars in lost
revenue.  “These types of lawsuits are part of our comprehensive
anti-piracy efforts,” said Lawrence Epstein, general counsel
for Las Vegas-based Zuffa LLC, which owns  Ultimate Fighting
Championship .  Gathering Evidence  The companies send investigators into bars and restaurants
the night of an event to gather photographic or video evidence
that the establishment showed it without paying the fee.  The price for watching a pay-per-view boxing event at home
might be $50, while businesses typically pay $1,500 to $3,000 or
more depending on the size of the venue, said Joseph Gagliardi,
president of J&J Sports Productions Inc., which promotes boxing
matches.  Showing a boxing match, soccer game or mixed martial arts
event without paying the commercial fee could potentially result
in a bar or restaurant owner getting hit with a $260,000 bill.  Last year, J&J Sports filed 708 lawsuits; Joe Hand
Promotions filed 515; and UFC itself 41, according to a search
of court dockets.  Both Gagliardi and Joe Hand Jr., president of Joe Hand
Promotions, have said in court papers that they believe their
companies have lost millions of dollars to piracy.  Protecting Revenue  The legal effort against pirating protects not only his own
revenue but also that of venues that pay the fee as required,
Gagliardi said in an interview.  “The most important part of what we do with litigation
going after the guys who pirate the events -- it’s the
protection for the guy who honestly puts up his money,” he
said.  Epstein of the UFC said paying bars are given a list of
others in the area that also paid, and they often report non-
paying venues that advertise they’re showing the event.  From 2006 through January of this year, UFC, which calls
itself the world’s leading professional mixed martial arts
organization, has collected $4.7 million in settlements from
commercial cases, UFC said. It is the largest commercial pay-
per-view provider, with 5,000 to 6,000 venues signed up for its
events, it said.  The owners typically violate the law by paying the
residential rate, redirecting the signal from a neighboring
residence to their establishment or ordering the event for their
home TV and taking the satellite box to their business,
according to court papers.  Assessing Damages  The federal law against satellite interception allows a
judge to award damages up to $10,000 per violation, with a
penalty as high as $100,000 if it was done “willfully” and for
“commercial advantage.” If the proprietor wasn’t aware of the
law, the judge can lower the award to $250.  The law against cable intervention also allows for up to
$10,000 per violation and an enhancement of up to $50,000. The
copyright owner can sue for infringement, tacking on another
maximum penalty of $150,000.  A maximum award for a combined satellite and copyright
violation would total $260,000.  In October 2009, U.S. District Judge  Jack B. Weinstein  in
 Brooklyn ,  New York , ordered Rio De La Plata Bakery Shop in
Queens, New York, to pay $110,000, plus $540 in attorneys’ fees,
to Setanta Sports North America Ltd. for showing the March 2009
World Cup qualifying soccer match in which  Argentina  beat
Venezuela 4 to 0.  Carlos G. Gimenez, the bakery’s owner, didn’t return a call
for comment on the lawsuit or the damages award.  No Response  On Feb. 24, U.S. District Judge George P. Kazen in Laredo
ordered Plaza Mexico and three individuals connected to it to
pay Feasterville, Pennsylvania-based Joe Hand Promotions the
maximum $10,000, plus a $20,000 enhancement and $2,500 in
lawyers’ fees. Plaza Mexico and the other defendants never
responded to the lawsuit and the judge granted Joe Hand
Promotions a default judgment.  Telephone directory information had no listing for Plaza
Mexico in Laredo.  Julie Cohen Lonstein, a lawyer who sues on behalf of sports
promoters including Campbell, California-based J&J Sports and
UFC, said most of her cases get settled. “There’s an
opportunity to settle them for less money than what the statute
would allow,” said Lonstein, who is based in Ellenville, New
York, about 94 miles north of  New York City .  Those that are filed usually end with settlements or
default judgments, according to lawyers who work both sides of
them.  Caught ‘Red-Handed’  U.S. District Judge Brian M. Cogan in Brooklyn, in awarding
the maximum $10,000 in a default judgment, wrote that “to hold
otherwise would encourage defendants caught red-handed to ignore
legal process in the recognition that judicial discretion is the
only defense they have.” He said the total $50,000 award, plus
attorneys fees, “should be painful to defendants, but not so
painful as to cause undue hardship.”  That case stemmed from the November 2010 Super Welterweight
championship boxing match between Manny Pacquiao and Antonio
Margarito.  Lonstein said her clients are obligated to sue. “Unless
they go after the violators, and unless judges give awards that
will have a deterrent effect, they will continue to do it,” she
said. “The award at judgment should be high enough to deter
future piracy.”  Burdensome Suits  Lawyers who represent the bars and restaurants said the
suits can be burdensome.  “In my experience they tend to be owners of really small
establishments,” Paul B. Overhauser, an attorney in
Indianapolis who has represented hundreds of restaurants in
piracy cases, said in an interview. “If there is a default
judgment, it’s probably because the bar owner couldn’t afford an
attorney.”  Overhauser said the sports promoters use the amount of
those default judgments in pressuring other owners to settle.
“They’ll say, ‘You better settle with us right away for $10,000
because this other one paid $150,000,’” he said. “If you’re a
business owner and you get a letter like that, it’s pretty
compelling if you don’t have a lawyer.”  The satellite and cable laws allow the promoters to collect
attorneys’ fees if they win. The bars and restaurants don’t get
such fees if they prevail.  “A lot of attorneys think these statutes are onerously
one-sided in favor of the plaintiffs,” Overhauser said.  Default Judgments  Sayuri K. Sharper, who since late last year has taken on
three proprietor clients with six cases, said that most of the
suits she sees end in default judgments because “you can’t hire
an attorney and litigate for less than $5,000.”  Sharper, a former patent litigator at Los Angeles-based
Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan LLP, takes the cases as part
of her work for the  San Jose , California-based Pro Bono Project.  “A lot of them are minority restaurant or bar owners,”
Sharper said. “None of my clients speak very good English. Most
of them don’t even know what to do so they don’t show up. My
clients showed up but they don’t know how to defend them,” she
said.  The owners often feel the amount “they have to incur to
make the problem go away” is “disproportionate to any benefit
they may have realized by displaying the game,” Overhauser
said. That’s especially true because the sports promoters also
sue the owners individually.  Negotiating Damages  Matthew A. Pare, a lawyer in Chula Vista,  California , who
said he’s defended about 70 such cases, said that because there
is strict liability under the law the suits come down to
negotiating about damages. Factors that go into that can include
the venue’s capacity, the number of violations, the number of
TVs and whether a cover was charged. He said cases typically
settle for $5,000.  Bars and restaurants often have an outside company set up
the television system, Pare said. “It’s quite often that the
owners of these bars don’t even realize that their television is
set up with a residential account as opposed to a commercial
account,” he said.  Promoters claim the piracy is intentional.  “There aren’t any defenses,” Epstein said. “It’s like
getting caught shoplifting. What are you going to say?”  Fighting Back  Some do fight the suits.  On March 1, U.S. District Judge Katherine B. Forrest in New
York threw out a case against Old Castle Pub in  Manhattan ,
ruling the bar didn’t intercept  Premium Sports Inc. ’s signal of
a 2010 Scotland-Wales soccer match when it used streaming-media
device Slingbox to receive the game from a home in Dublin.  Premium Sports has asked Forrest to reconsider that ruling.
Shane O’Rourke, the San Francisco-based company’s chief
executive officer, declined to comment because that motion is
pending.  The cases mentioned are Joe Hand Promotions Inc. v. Noyola,
11-cv-126, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  Texas 
(Laredo); Setanta Sports North America Ltd. v. Gimenez, 09-
cv-2094, and J&J Sports Productions Inc. v. Gutierrez, 11-
cv-2651, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York
(Brooklyn); and Premium Sports Inc. v. Connell, 10-cv-3753, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 