-- Hungary to Go to EU Court Over Unsolved Regulatory Disputes
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-04-13T11:13:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/hungary-to-turn-to-eu-court-if-eu-issues-unsolved-orban-says.html
Hungary is ready to turn to the
 European Court of Justice  if regulatory disputes with the
European Union, which have held up bailout talks, remain
unsolved.  Political conditions to starting the negotiations with the
 International Monetary Fund  are “unacceptable,” Prime Minister
 Viktor Orban  said on public radio  MR1-Kossuth  today. The EU will
probably publish its position on Hungary’s answers to legal
criticism “within days,” he added.  “If any disagreements remain, if the EU thinks that it
still has a dispute with us, then we will weigh our arguments
before the  European Court ,” Orban said.  Hungary turned to the IMF for financial assistance in
November and has yet to begin official talks. The EU has blocked
the start of negotiations because of a legal dispute over laws
affecting the central bank, the judiciary and data protection.  The 27-nation bloc started infringement proceedings against
the country and called on Orban to ensure the legal environment
for investor confidence to return. The resolution of legal
disputes being a condition for the start of negotiations is
“unimaginable,” Orban said.  ‘Simply Blackmail’  “ Hungary  is a member of the IMF, it’s our bank, and our
request for a precautionary loan being judged on anything else
but a purely economic basis would be unimaginable and
unacceptable,” Orban said. “Setting any kind of political
criteria would simply be blackmail.”  The forint has weakened 0.9 percent against the euro this
month, the second-worst performance among more than 20 emerging
market currencies behind the South African rand, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The benchmark  BUX index  fell 0.8
percent to 17,692.71 by 12:46 p.m. in Budapest, pushing the
gauge’s decline this month to 5.1 percent.  Hungary’s dispute with the EU has “flared up again” and
the country has taken “big steps backward on the road leading
to an agreement,” Budapest-based analysts at  Erste Group Bank
AG (EBS)  wrote in a report today.  The government wants to gradually shift the tax burden from
labor to consumption and transactions as it seeks to boost
employment, Orban said. A planned levy on financial
transactions, which may be introduced from 2013, “can’t really
be more than 0.1 percent as we’re talking about an enormous
amount of money” Orban said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  