-- OTP Caps Biggest Weekly Fall in 6 Months on IMF: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-04-13T15:29:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/hungary-s-otp-bank-heads-for-biggest-weekly-drop-in-three-months.html
OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP) ,  Hungary ’s largest
lender, capped the biggest weekly drop in more than six months
on concern disputes obstructing Hungary’s bailout bid will grow
and that the government will introduce a new banking tax.  The shares weakened 6.1 percent to 3,375. forint by the
close in Budapest, extending its weekly decline to 10 percent,
the most since the five days through Sep. 23. European stocks
fell, with the Stoxx Europe 600 Index headed for the longest
streak of weekly losses since August as  China ’s growth slowed
more than forecast.  Hungary would consider it an act of “blackmail” if the
 International Monetary Fund  were to pose political criteria for
starting financial assistance talks and is ready to go to court
to defend its position, Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said in an
interview on public radio MR1-Kossuth. The government may
introduce a levy on financial transactions from 2013 as it
shifts the tax burden from labor to consumption, Orban added.  “The news on the deal between the government and the IMF,
the government’s communication and the idea of the new
transaction tax are the fundamentals” behind OTP’s slump, Peter
Varju, a Budapest-based trader at Erste Group Bank AG, said by
telephone today.  Hungary turned to the IMF for financial assistance in
November and has yet to begin official talks. The European Union
has blocked the start of negotiations because of a legal dispute
over laws affecting the central bank, the judiciary and data
protection.  “The dispute seems to be getting inflamed again, the start
of formal talks is getting delayed, and that may put the
Hungarian market under pressure in the coming days or weeks,”
Zoltan Arokszallasi, a Budapest-based analyst at Erste, wrote in
a research report today, adding that international sentiment was
becoming “more negative.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  