-- Munich Re’s Ergo to Start Life Insurance Joint Venture in China
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2012-04-13T11:44:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/munich-re-s-ergo-to-start-life-insurance-joint-venture-in-china.html
Ergo Versicherungsgruppe (EVG2) , the
primary-insurance unit of  Munich Re (RUKN) , said it will enter the
Chinese  life insurance  market through a joint venture with a
government-owned partner.  “The joint venture will primarily offer life insurance to
private customers in the economically attractive province of
Shandong,” Dusseldorf-based Ergo said in an e-mailed  statement 
today. Ergo and Shandong State-owned Assets Investment Holding
Co. agreed to form the joint venture in January 2011 and have
now received regulatory approval.  Ergo, led by Chief Executive Officer Torsten Oletzky, is
 Germany ’s second-biggest primary insurer after  Allianz SE (ALV)  and is
fully owned by  Munich Re , the world’s largest reinsurer. Ergo
and the Chinese firm, which is part of the provincial government
of Shandong’s asset manager, will each hold 50 percent of the
venture and the headquarters will be located in Jinan, the
capital of Shandong, Ergo said.  “By entering the Chinese insurance market, we are
strengthening our position in the emerging Asian markets, which
are a focal point of our international growth strategy,” Jochen Messemer, Ergo’s management board member in charge of
international operations, said in the statement. “The Chinese
insurance market has consistently developed at high growth rates
in recent years and will continue to offer enormous potential
for further growth.”  The Shandong province has a population of 96 million and is
the third-largest domestic insurance market in  China , Ergo said.
The company expects to start operations there in the first half
of 2013.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  