-- ViroPharma Seeks Temporary FDA Block for Generic Vancocin
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-04-13T22:45:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/viropharma-seeks-temporary-fda-block-for-generic-vancocin-1-.html
ViroPharma Inc. (VPHM)  sued two federal
agencies seeking a court order temporarily blocking approval of
generic forms of its biggest product, the antibiotic Vancocin.  Arguing that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration’s
approval of three companies’ generic formulations was arbitrary
and capricious, Exton, Pennsylvania-based ViroPharma also asked
for a court order reversing that agency’s decision and granting
it a three-year window of exclusivity.  In its complaint filed today in federal court in
 Washington , ViroPharma described Vancocin as a “drug of last
resort,” against life-threatening gastrointestinal infections,
from which it derives about half its revenue.  “The entry of these three generic products into the market
is expected to cause ViroPharma irreparable harm in the form of
significant and swift lost sales of Vancocin,” according to the
company’s complaint. Those sales were about $289 million last
year.  ViroPharma fell 22 percent to $22.44 at the close of New
York trading on April 10 after announcements by two companies,
 Akorn Inc. (AKRX)  and  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI) , that the FDA had
approved their copies of the drug. ViroPharma fell 7 cents to
$22.01 today in Nasdaq trading.  The FDA’s Office of Public Affairs didn’t immediately reply
to a voice-mail message after regular business hours seeking
comment on the lawsuit. Also named as a defendant is the federal
 Department of Health  and Human Services, under whose authority
the FDA operates.  Akorn and Watson aren’t direct parties to the litigation.  The case is ViroPharma Inc. v. Hamburg, 12-cv-584, U.S.
District Court for the District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 