-- Vodafone Faces Expanded EU Probe With O2 on Mobile-Payment Deal
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-04-13T17:08:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/vodafone-faces-expanded-eu-probe-with-o2-on-mobile-payment-deal.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ,  Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s
O2 and Everything Everywhere Ltd. face an expanded probe by
European Union regulators examining their U.K. mobile-phone
payment system.  The European Commission extended until Aug. 27 its deadline
to rule on the deal, it said in an e-mailed statement today.
Regulators cited concerns that the companies may be able to
block competitors from offering their own “mobile wallet”
services to U.K. customers or to “degrade the quality” of
services to make them less attractive.  “We need to make sure that competing services can keep
emerging on this market, so that incentives to innovate remain
and customers get the best mobile commerce services at the best
cost,” EU Competition Commission Joaquin Almunia said in an e-
mailed statement.  The U.K.’s three largest mobile operators are seeking EU
approval for the joint venture to help banks and advertisers
access services which will allow people to buy items from
groceries to clothes with their smartphones. After losing out to
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  in offering online application
stores, the companies want to accelerate the development of
additional services to drive revenue and boost smartphone sales.  “The shareholders in the proposed joint venture remain
focused and determined to progress with the project,” the three
companies said in a joint statement. “We remain confident that
an extended review will conclude that the proposed joint venture
is pro-competitive and will provide robust competition.”  ‘High Market Shares’  The joint venture would have “very high market shares” in
growing markets for mobile-payment applications, mobile
advertising and data-analytic services, regulators said. The EU
agency is “wary” of efforts that may exclude rivals in its
review of “joint ventures established by telecoms operators to
offer new mobile-supported services such as payments and
advertising,” Almunia said last month.  “The demand for these services is virtually non-existent
at present. We have this mass of people trying to service a
market that doesn’t exist at the moment,” said Alistair Newton,
an analyst at Gartner Inc. in  London .  Consumers may spend as much as $50 billion worldwide using
their mobile phones by 2014 through a technology called near-
field communications,  Juniper Research  said in June. There were
7.1 million mobile-payment users in Western Europe in 2010,
compared with 62.8 million users in the Asia-Pacific region, the
commission said, citing estimates from Gartner.  Three’s Concerns  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) ’s Three unit last year raised
concerns with the EU over its potential exclusion from the U.K.
mobile-phone payment venture set up by its bigger rivals.
 Verizon Wireless , the largest U.S. wireless carrier, last year
blocked Google’s competing mobile-payment system from the new
Galaxy Nexus smartphone from Samsung Electronics Co., citing
security concerns.  Hugh Davies, Three’s director of corporate affairs, said
the proposed joint venture “raises serious competition
concerns” and Three was “pleased” the EU would investigate
the deal’s effect on consumers and the future development of
mobile payments.  Europe has missed out on the “most promising” mobile-
phone payment initiatives because the region lacks a regulatory
framework for the technology, EU regulators have said, citing
initiatives by Google, Apple and Visa Inc. Visa and Visa  Europe 
Ltd. said last year they had agreed to license mobile-payment
technology to Google to be incorporated into its design of a new
smartphone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in London at   jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 