-- Vornado to Hold Quarterly Calls, Sell Some Retail Centers
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2012-04-13T22:43:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/vornado-to-hold-quarterly-calls-sell-some-retail-centers.html
Vornado Realty Trust (VNO) , owner of more
than 100 million square feet (9.3 million square meters) of U.S.
properties, will start holding conference calls with investors
and reduce its retail-center holdings, Chairman  Steven Roth  said
in his annual letter to investors.  The New York-based real estate investment trust will hold
quarterly calls beginning with the second quarter, Roth wrote in
the letter, filed today with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. The change is a result of conversations with
shareholders and analysts, he said.  “Everyone suggests conference calls -- fair enough,” Roth
wrote.  Vornado also plans to cut its enclosed-mall holdings,
reduce its portfolio of strip shopping centers and “sell all
non-core assets,” including its stake in  Toys “R” Us Inc. (TOYS) ,
Roth wrote. The company plans to keep its 23.4 million shares of
 J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  “to reap the benefit of the company’s
transformation,” he said.  “We are in a recovery (but by no means recovered),” he
wrote in the letter. “Consensus is that the recovery will be
shallow and as such, I believe it will be much longer in
duration than the three to five to seven year economic cycles
that we are used to. All this will prove to be a very good
environment for our business.”  The recovery has led to an increase in property prices that
has made acquisitions difficult, Roth said.  Assets ‘Not Cheap’  “I must say, I find investing in this market difficult,”
he wrote. “Nobody expected building prices to bounce back as
strongly or as quickly as they did -- but they did. Assets are
not cheap, either historically or in relation to current
rents.”  Government cutbacks in  Washington  will cause Vornado’s
occupancies near the U.S. capital to drop to 80 percent to 85
percent this year and cost the company as much as $1.50 per
share, Roth said.  “Damn annoying, but livable,” he wrote.  Vornado’s Washington-area properties include the 26-
building Crystal City complex and the eight Skyline buildings,
which, being located 3.5 miles (5.6 kilometers) from the
Pentagon, will probably experience vacancies of more than 30
percent because of the Base Realignment and Closure process
aimed at reducing military expenditures. The assets are backing
a $678 million loan due in 2017.  “We need relief here, and accordingly have requested the
loan be placed in special servicing,” Roth said.  ‘On the Table’  Investors and analysts have recommended Vornado do
everything from buying back shares to splitting the company up
into smaller firms focused on individual types of real estate,
Roth said.  “Everything is on the table,” he wrote.  The letter was released after the close of regular U.S.
trading. Vornado  shares  fell 1.4 percent to $79.94 today in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. They have dropped 9
percent in the past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  