-- Wells Fargo Profit Rises as Results Improve on Mortgages
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-04-13T14:04:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/wells-fargo-profit-rises-as-results-improve-from-mortgage-loans.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the largest U.S.
home lender, reported a 13 percent rise in first-quarter  profit ,
setting a record as the bank made more money on new mortgages
and curbed losses from old ones.  Net income rose to $4.25 billion, or 75 cents a share, from
$3.76 billion, or 67 cents, a year earlier, the San Francisco-
based firm said in a statement today. While results beat the 73-
cent consensus of analysts, they included a $400 million release
from reserves and the company said expenses for this year may be
at the high end of its forecast. The shares dropped 2.5 percent
in  New York .  The new guidance is “not a big change, but it is in the
wrong direction and thus takes away hopes of upside,” Brian Foran, a New York-based analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc., wrote
in a note to clients.  Chief Executive Officer  John Stumpf , 58, is taking
advantage of weakness among rivals at home and abroad by
expanding U.S. mortgage lending and buying assets from European
banks. Thirteen  straight quarters  of profit made Wells Fargo the
most valuable U.S. bank by market capitalization and allowed
Stumpf to raise the dividend 83 percent and buy back shares.  “Mortgage lending is extremely important for strategists
as well as Wells Fargo investors,”  Jeffrey Davis , chief
investment officer at Lee Munder Capital Group in  Boston , said
today in an interview on Bloomberg Television. “All in all,
we’re happy with what we see. It confirms what we think about
Wells Fargo.”  Revenue and Costs  The stock slid 86 cents to $33.16 at 9:40 a.m. in New York.
The shares gained 23.4 percent this year through yesterday,
compared with 23.6 percent for the KBW Bank Index.  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , the investment and holding company run by
Chairman and CEO  Warren Buffett , is the biggest Wells Fargo
shareholder with a stake of about 7.3 percent.  Revenue climbed 6.4 percent to $21.6 billion, more than the
$20.4 billion forecast by analysts. Costs also advanced, with
non-interest expense climbing about 2 percent to $13 billion
amid higher compensation and legal spending.  The bank said quarterly costs will fall to $11.25 billion
by the end of the year, the high end of Stumpf’s stated goal for
reducing expenses to between $10.75 billion and $11.25 billion.
Costs will fall by as much as $700 million in the second
quarter, the company said.  Loss Provisions  Wells Fargo set aside $430 million to cover costs of buying
back soured loans from investors, compared with $404 million in
the fourth quarter. The total provision for credit losses
dropped 10 percent to $2 billion, the bank said. Income before
taxes and provisions, a measure that filters out the effect of
one-time items, advanced 7 percent from the fourth quarter and
14 percent from a year earlier, according to the statement.  The bank said mortgage originations climbed 7.5 percent
from the three months ended December. The unclosed pipeline
stood at $79 billion at the end of the quarter, increasing from
$72 billion at year-end. Mortgage origination and sales
accounted for 24 percent of all fee revenue, according to a
presentation.  Federal Help  The mortgage industry got a boost from a recently enacted
federal refinancing program, according to analysts including FBR
Capital Markets’  Paul Miller . The expansion of the Home
Affordable Refinance Program, dubbed HARP 2.0, lowers fees for
homeowners and allows them to refinance regardless of how much
their home’s value has fallen.  “This quarter should be one of the strongest quarters for
mortgage banking we have seen in quite some time,” Miller, a
former examiner for the  Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia ,
wrote in an April 10 report for the Arlington, Virginia-based
firm. “We continue to recommend investors stick with banks that
have sizable mortgage banking operations.” Miller assigns an
“outperform” rating to the shares, with a $39 price target
over the next 12 months.  Wells Fargo originated 30.1 percent of all U.S. mortgages
in the fourth quarter, the highest share ever posted by a single
lender and nearly three times the nearest competitor, according
to  Guy Cecala , publisher of Inside Mortgage Finance, an industry
publication.  Market Share  Drags on the company include slack national demand for
loans at the biggest U.S. banks. Loans at the top 25
domestically chartered commercial lenders rose 0.4 percent in
the quarter through March 28, slowing from 1 percent in the
previous three months, according to the  Federal Reserve .  Non-performing assets climbed for the first time in at
least four quarters to $26.6 billion. The pickup was spurred by
new regulatory guidance on how to account for second mortgages,
which added $1.7 billion to the pool of soured assets.  Net interest margin, the difference between what the bank
earns on loans and pays for funds, widened to 3.91 percent from
3.89 percent in the fourth quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  