-- Wells Fargo, JPMorgan Label More Junior Liens as Bad Assets
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-04-13T19:17:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/wells-fargo-jpmorgan-label-more-junior-home-loans-as-bad-assets.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  labeled $3.3 billion of junior liens as bad assets
after regulators pushed the nation’s biggest banks to rethink
the value of second mortgages whose collateral has vanished.  Wells Fargo classified $1.7 billion of junior liens as
nonperforming in the quarter, leading to an increase in overall
soured loans, and JPMorgan gave that designation to $1.6 billion
of such loans, according to their first-quarter presentations
today. Both banks cited federal guidance for the change.  U.S. regulators last year were examining whether lenders
were accurately valuing $845 billion of home-equity and other
second-lien mortgages and setting aside enough reserves,
according to people with knowledge of the matter. Holders of
second liens can be wiped out when  home prices decline  and a
borrower defaults because lenders holding first mortgages
typically are entitled to all the remaining collateral.  “We’ve identified those high-risk seconds early, we put
reserves against them early, and so our reserves remain
unaffected,” Doug Braunstein, Chief Financial Officer of New
York-based JPMorgan, said on a conference call today with
analysts. Wells Fargo CFO Timothy Sloan said during his
conference call the impact on earnings at his San Francisco-
based bank was “immaterial.”  Overdue Loans  JPMorgan and Wells Fargo said the reclassified loans are
junior to other loans that are  overdue , a warning sign that
their own stake may be headed for a write-off. Wells Fargo said
total nonaccrual loans rose to 2.87 percent of total loans in
the first quarter from 2.77 percent at year-end. JPMorgan said
its total nonaccrual rate jumped to 1.47 percent from 1.38
percent three months earlier.  Wells Fargo held $103.5 billion home-equity loans and lines
of credit at the end of March, decreasing from $106.6 billion in
December. JPMorgan’s dropped to $97.5 billion at the end of the
quarter from $100.5 billion at year-end.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , which had been the largest U.S. home
lender during the peak of the housing bubble, had the largest
second-lien portfolio at year-end with $122.1 billion in unpaid
balances, according to Inside Mortgage Finance, the industry
trade publication. The  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank
reports results next week.  Red Flags  Regulators and lawmakers have been sounding alarms since at
least 2009 about the value of second mortgages. The Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. sent a letter to banks in August 2009
asking them to consider boosting reserves for second liens,
citing the impact of overdue first mortgages.  Barney Frank , then
the chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, sent a
letter to lenders in March 2010 urging them to recognize more
losses because “large numbers of these second liens have no
real economic value.”  Bankers including Wells Fargo Chief Executive Officer  John Stumpf  have responded that American borrowers tend to meet their
obligations and pay their bills as long as they are able,
regardless of whether the value of their homes has declined.
That’s because they want to keep access to the account and draw
on the unused portion of their credit lines, according to a
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia study in December 2010.  Of JPMorgan’s $1.6 billion of second liens that were deemed
nonperforming, $1.4 billion were still current as of March 31,
the bank said. Sloan said in an interview that 12 percent of the
$1.7 billion of loans Wells Fargo moved were past due, and that
the bank has adequate loss reserves. “We’ve taken the potential
risk of these loans into consideration,” he said.  Complete Losses  Stumpf told analysts that 90 percent of “underwater”
mortgage borrowers in the U.S. are still current on payments.
“Americans by a vast majority want to pay their bills if they
have the income to do it,” Stumpf said today. He said problems
arise mainly when borrowers lose their jobs, in which case the
loss to the bank tends to be “almost complete.”  Jamie Dimon , JPMorgan’s CEO, told analysts the bank began
looking at the loans in past years and was surprised to find
second-lien borrowers were still current even after they’d
stopped paying on their primary loan.  “But when we analyzed it, it was pretty obvious it was
just a timing difference,” Dimon said, adding this prompted the
bank to begin building reserves years ago. “In almost all cases
the first went delinquent, the second eventually went
delinquent. And in all cases, where the first went into
foreclosure, the second was a loss, basically a total loss.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  