-- Why YouTube Has Become an Important Intelligence Source
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2012-04-13T12:32:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/why-youtube-has-become-an-important-intelligence-source.html
A tall, muscular figure silhouetted
against a palm-studded city block shoulders a rocket-propelled
grenade launcher, aims and fires at a Syrian armored vehicle in
the distance.  The video of the attack, one of thousands posted on YouTube
by the Syrian opposition, reveals the rebels’ growing
capabilities and the wear-and-tear on the Assad regime’s forces,
said  Jeffrey White , a retired U.S. defense intelligence analyst.
The Russian-made BMP infantry fighting vehicle was buttoned up
tight, a sign the soldiers inside were wary, he said.  “It wasn’t a wild shot,” said White, an analyst at the
Washington Institute for Near East Policy, who relies on such
video clips and the Facebook pages of rebel units in evaluating
strengths and weaknesses of the Free Syrian Army and President Bashar al-Assad’s forces. “I wouldn’t say it’s a demonstration
of mastery of the military art, but it looks like it wasn’t
casual or uninformed.”  The social networks of  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube, Twitter Inc.
and  Facebook Inc. (FB) , which provided global visibility for the
uprisings of the Arab Spring, also have become important sources
of information for U.S. and other intelligence agencies.
Analysts prowl the Internet to supplement what they learn from
spies, satellite photos and intercepted communications on the
fighting in  Syria , where diplomatic listening posts have closed.  Now they are watching the Web to monitor a cease-fire
brokered by the United Nations. The agreement was tested today,
as clashes broke out in areas including Idlib and Aleppo in the
north, Hama in central Syria and Daraa in the south, according
to the Local Coordination Committees, an umbrella opposition
group.  Getting 10,300 Results  A search for “Free Syrian Army” on YouTube yesterday
generated 10,300 results. Some show rebel units with every
member toting an AK-47 and a few holding more sophisticated gear
or mounting weapons on  pickup trucks , as rebel fighters did in
 Libya .  While most of the clips can’t be independently verified,
the scenes they depict match reporting from inside Syria and
human rights groups’ accounts, and some show recognizable
landmarks.  The videos fill at least some of the gaps in knowledge of
the military capabilities on both sides of a conflict that the
 United Nations  estimates has killed more than 9,000 people, and
has prompted President  Barack Obama  to demand that Assad leave
office.  Grenade Launchers  The YouTube videos show rebel forces dressed in camouflage
or just in jeans and warm-up jackets storming regime positions
or wielding rocket-propelled grenade launchers as a tank burns
in the background on a narrow city street.  One clip shows opposition fighters in a boulder-strewn
field toting two grenade launchers, at least one apparently
loaded.  “The battalion of martyr Ahmad Khalaf is seeking to end
the siege of the town of Karak,” one fighter says on the video.
“There is a rocky plateau ahead. Once we are there, they will
be about 500 meters away from us.”  Another fighter advises checking the range on the launcher.  The device appears to be a tube for a Russian-made 9K-115
Metis shoulder-launched missile system, said James Bevan,
director of U.K.-based Conflict Armament Research Ltd.  Opposition Weapons  Most of the opposition’s weapons appear to have come from
Syrian forces, probably recovered in attacks, scooped up in
raids, or bought from sympathetic regime soldiers, wrote Joseph
Holliday, an analyst at the Washington-based Institute for the
Study of War, in a 57-page report on Syria’s armed opposition
published last month.  Exceptions are M-16 automatic rifles or shotguns that can
be bought on the open market in  Turkey  or elsewhere, White said
in an interview.  “The most interesting weaponry we’ve seen is anti-tank
guided missiles,” White said. “For the rebels to have that
kind of capability is very important.”  White counts a working list of 150 formations of the armed
opposition. That includes 68 named battalions of 50 to 200
fighters each, for a total force of 3,000 to 14,000. He said he
has “high confidence” that 27 of those units exist, medium
confidence in 27 more and low confidence in 14.  White said he’s begun to see higher-level brigade
formations for greater coordination among units and
communications with Free Syrian Army headquarters in Turkey. The
Free Syrian Army also is using heavy machine guns to shoot down
the helicopters the regime has begun to employ.  Assad’s Army  Assad’s Syrian military numbers about 295,000 on active
duty, according to the 2012 edition of “The Military Balance,”
an annual appraisal of armed forces worldwide published by the
London-based International Institute for Strategic Studies.
Reserves stood at 314,000. Assad’s army, though, was built to
fight the Israelis, and it’s had little combat experience since
the 1982 war in Lebanon, especially in urban warfare.  Because the active-duty figure includes administrative and
support personnel, White estimates the number of combat forces
at less than 100,000. U.S. Director of National Intelligence
James Clapper told the Senate Armed Services Committee on Feb.
16 that the Syrian regime has committed about 80 percent of its
maneuver brigades to the fight.  “They have to use the army almost everywhere all the time
to deal with the opposition,” said White, who’s argued in favor
of U.S. aid to the rebels.  While the opposition hasn’t been able to stop Assad’s
forces from retaking territory during an offensive, the Free
Syrian Army was able to inflict damage and survive, White said.  “There is no permanent clearing of an area by the
regime,” White told an audience at the Washington Institute
this week. “What the FSA does is it erodes the regime. It
bleeds the regime.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  