-- WL Ross to Lose Top Executive as Storper to Leave Firm
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2012-04-13T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/wl-ross-to-lose-top-executive-as-storper-to-leave-firm.html
Billionaire Wilbur Ross Jr. is
losing one of his top executives as David Storper, a senior
managing director and a member of the investment committee of WL
Ross & Co., decided to depart in October.  Storper, 46, has been at WL Ross since the New York-based
firm was started 12 years ago. He was in charge of recruiting
young people and about a month ago was given responsibility for
leading strategy for the firm, Ross said yesterday in an
interview. Stephen J. Toy, 39, a managing director, will take
over recruiting and vice chairman James Lockhart III will lead
strategy.  “It’s a friendly separation,” Ross said by phone. “We
wish him well in whatever he decides to do in October.”  Ross is trying to raise his next turnaround fund, which has
struggled to gain traction. The firm, founded by the 74 year-old
Ross, last year cut its fundraising target in half from $4
billion and was granted more time from investors to gather
money.  Ross, who started his own company in 2000 and sold it to
 Invesco Ltd. (IVZ)  in 2006, made his name in turnarounds of steel and
coal companies and more recently has been buying financial
companies.  Storper’s relationship with Ross dates back to before the
start of WL Ross & Co. in 2000. He worked with Ross in the late
1990s as a managing director in the restructuring group at
Rothschild Inc. Both Toy and managing director Wendy Teramoto
also worked in the group at that time. Ross led the bankruptcy
advisory practice at Rothschild from 1976 to about 2000.  Storper ran WL Ross’s hedge fund until he gave up those
responsibilities a few years ago. He will still be a limited
partner in the firm’s funds, Ross said.  Storper didn’t immediately reply to an e-mail seeking
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in New York at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  