-- World’s Top Pension to Start Buying Emerging Stocks This Quarter
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 2012-04-13T08:42:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/world-s-top-pension-to-start-buying-emerging-stocks-this-quarter.html
Japan ’s public pension fund, the
world’s largest, will start investing in emerging market stocks
as early as this quarter as it seeks to diversify assets and
cover rising payouts.  The Government Pension Investment Fund , which oversees 108
trillion yen ($1.3 trillion), has decided on the managers who
will handle the investments and is now in the process of setting
up accounts in prospective markets, said Takahiro Mitani,
president of the fund, known as GPIF. He declined to name the
managers until investments are actually made or disclose the
amount of the allocations.  “We expect to start investing in emerging market stocks by
the end of this quarter or the beginning of the next quarter,”
Mitani, 63, said in an interview in Tokyo today. “Because the
markets are less liquid than the developed ones, we’ll likely
begin with a small amount and then decide on whether to buy more
depending on how it goes.”  The investments will be focused on markets included in the
 MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF) , which tracks 21 countries including
Brazil,  Russia ,  India ,  China , South Korea, Taiwan and  South
Africa , Mitani said. The gauge has gained 13 percent this year
compared with an 8.6 percent increase in the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of
developed stocks.  Higher Hurdle  GPIF doesn’t plan to begin investing in alternative assets
such as hedge funds and real estate “any time soon,” Mitani
said, citing AIJ Investment Advisors Co.’s incident where the
Tokyo-based asset manager lost pension clients’ money.  “AIJ’s incident pushed the hurdle a bit higher for us to
consider alternative investments,” said Mitani. “We can’t
invest unless we know what exactly the investments are.”  GPIF, historically one of the biggest buyers of Japanese
debt, held 72.8 trillion yen in domestic bonds, or 67 percent of
its assets as of December, according to the fund’s latest
quarterly  financial statement . That compares with 12 trillion
yen in Japanese stocks, or 11 percent, 9.1 trillion yen, or 8.4
percent, in foreign bonds and 10.9 trillion yen, or 10 percent,
in overseas stocks, the report shows. The fund had a  0.58
percent return  in the three months ended Dec. 31.  GPIF needs to raise about 8.87 trillion yen for payments
this fiscal year, Mitani said, adding that it plans to sell
assets, without elaborating. Payments are increasing as the
first of Japan’s baby boomers are set to turn 65 in 2012,
becoming eligible for pensions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in  Tokyo  at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net ;
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 