-- WTO Judges to Decide If EU Has Ended Illegal Airbus Aid
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2012-04-13T09:58:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/wto-judges-to-decide-if-eu-has-ended-illegal-airbus-aid.html
The  World Trade Organization  agreed
to decide whether the European Union has removed subsidies to
 Airbus SAS (EAD)  that break commerce rules, the first step to possible
retaliatory sanctions against the EU.  The U.S., which requested the so-called compliance panel
today in Geneva, said on March 30 that illegal EU aid to the
airplane maker had “cost American aerospace companies tens of
billions of dollars in lost revenue.” The EU said in December
it had scrapped all aid deemed trade-incompatible by the WTO.  WTO judges ruled in June 2010 that loans by Spain, the
U.K.,  France  and  Germany  were unfair subsidies that had an
adverse effect on Airbus’s U.S. competitor,  Boeing Co. (BA)  While the
trade arbiter can’t force nations or companies to eliminate
illegal payments, it can authorize retaliatory sanctions against
governments that fail to comply with its rulings.  The EU submitted its compliance report on Dec. 1 as part of
the seven-year legal battle over aid to Airbus and Boeing, the
world’s two biggest commercial planemakers. The EU said it had
secured repayment of $2.3 billion in launch-aid loans and
terminated the loan agreements in question, while also
addressing subsidies given in the form of capital contributions,
infrastructure support and regional aid.  U.S. Trade Representative  Ron Kirk  dismissed the EU
assertion, saying the bloc had failed to halt government aid for
Airbus to build aircraft, including the A380 superjumbo, and
even provided new illegal subsidies after the WTO ruling. He
said on March 30 that the U.S. “remains prepared to engage with
the EU in any meaningful efforts that will lead to the goal of
ending subsidized financing at the earliest possible date.”  Boeing Aid  WTO judges have also ruled that illegal subsidies from the
U.S. and individual states to Chicago-based Boeing had damaged
Airbus by more than $5.3 billion. Appeals judges affirmed on
March 12 that Boeing received illegal aid of $3.1 billion from
NASA, Washington state and Wichita,  Kansas , and between $100
million and $1.2 billion from U.S. Department of Defense
contracts. The U.S. has until the third week of September to
eliminate that aid.  The U.S. and  Europe  filed counter-cases at the WTO in 2004
after the administration of President  George W. Bush 
unilaterally walked out of a 1992 aircraft-aid accord with the
EU. Toulouse, France-based Airbus, which had a record 1,419
orders in 2011 to extend its lead over Boeing, delivered 534
aircraft last year while its rival delivered 477.  Both governments reserved their right to appeal the
compliance panel’s findings. If that happens, they agreed to
work together to ensure the WTO Appellate Body could issue its
ruling within 90 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  