-- Zandi Raises U.S. Growth Forecast for First Quarter on Trade
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-04-13T15:12:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-13/zandi-raises-u-s-growth-forecast-for-first-quarter-on-trade.html
Mark Zandi , chief economist at
Moody’s Analytics Inc., raised his forecast for U.S. economic
growth in the first quarter after a report yesterday showed the
trade deficit in February narrowed more than forecast.  Zandi now sees growth of at least 2.5 percent and
“probably a bit north of that,” he said in a radio interview
on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . In early April,
Zandi forecast 2.2 percent growth. “It is not boom times, but
that is not bad,” he said.  The trade  deficit  narrowed as imports fell by the most in
three years, reflecting the smallest amount of crude oil
purchases in 15 years and a drop-off in demand for Chinese
goods, yesterday’s Commerce Department figures showed. The gap
shrank 12 percent to $46 billion, the smallest since October,
from $52.5 billion in January.  Zandi said the figure for February “adds significantly”
to first-quarter gross domestic product. The deficit subtracted
0.26 percentage point from GDP in the final three months of
2011, after adding 0.43 points in the prior quarter.  With growth on a sustainable path, U.S. policy makers need
to shift their focus to long-term issues, such as reducing the
 budget deficit , he said. Zandi, who is based in  West Chester ,
 Pennsylvania , said business spending is maintaining its
expansion and consumers have stayed resilient in the face of
higher gasoline  prices .  “Business investment in equipment and software is still
coming in at a pretty solid clip,” he said. “Businesses are
very profitable. Balance sheets are very strong. I think there
is a lot of incentive for them to continue to look for growth
opportunities.”  Auto Sales  Auto sales are leading  consumer spending  even as gasoline
prices rise, Zandi said.  “Consumers have been doing their part,” he said.
“Consumers are going to continue to stick in there, given the
improving job market, given the continued gains in the stock
market.”  Consumer confidence  cooled in April from a one-year high as
Americans’ assessment of their financial situation eased, a
report today showed. The Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan’s preliminary index of consumer sentiment dropped to
75.7 from 76.2 last month. The measure was projected to hold at
76.2, according to a median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey
of economists.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  