-- Manchester United Moves Closer to Premiership Title With Win
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-03-30T19:47:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-30/manchester-united-moves-closer-to-premiership-title-with-1-0-win.html
Manchester United continued its
march to the English Premier League soccer title with a 1-0 win
over Sunderland to extend its unbeaten run to 18 games.  A Titus Bramble own goal gave United its sixth straight
league win. United remains 15 points ahead of Manchester City,
which defeated Newcastle 4-0, with eight games remaining.  “It was all about coming here and winning,” United
midfielder  Michael Carrick  told  Sky Sports . “We’re getting
closer and it’s one game less. We have to keep going.”  Tottenham won 2-1 at Swansea to move into third place over
Chelsea, which lost 2-1 at Southampton. Arsenal defeated Reading
4-1, Everton beat Stoke 1-0, West Ham defeated West Brom 3-1,
and Wigan beat Norwich 1-0 to move out of the three relegation
places at the bottom of the standings.  United dominated play at Sunderland’s Stadium of Light but
needed the own goal in the 27th minute to clinch the win.  Robin van Persie  sent a shot from the left side of the area which
clipped  Phil Bardsley  before deflecting off Bramble’s knee past
goalkeeper Simon Mignolet.  “It didn’t matter who scored today, it was all about the
three points,” van Persie said. “This team is full of winners.
Everyone knows what they have to do and it was never in doubt
for me.”  Sunderland is winless in eight league matches, positioned
just one point above the relegation zone.  Manchester City had goals from  Carlos Tevez ,  David Silva 
and  Vincent Kompany , plus an own goal, to rout Newcastle and
keep its fleeting title hopes alive. City visits its Manchester
rival on April 8.  Relegation  Goals from Jan Vertonghen and Gareth Bale in the opening 21
minutes gave Spurs the win at Swansea. It lifts the north London
club up to third place, two points ahead of Chelsea.  Southampton moved four points clear of relegation with a
home win over Chelsea as Rickie Lambert scored the winning goal
with a free kick in the 35th minute. Jay Rodriguez also scored
for the Saints, while  John Terry  had the Chelsea goal.  Gervinho, Santi Cazorla, Olivier Giroud and  Mikel Arteta 
scored as Arsenal pulled within two points of Chelsea. Reading,
in its first game under manager Nigel Adkins, fell into last
place below Queens Park Rangers on goal difference with both
teams on 23 points.  Everton stayed in the hunt for a top-four finish and a
Champions League berth with its home win over Stoke. Kevin
Mirallas scored as the Toffess stayed two points behind Arsenal
and moved within four points of Chelsea.  Arouna Kone’s goal with nine minutes remaining gave Wigan
the home victory over Norwich. The Latics’ second straight
league win moves them out of the relegation zone on goal
difference over Aston Villa.  Andy Carroll scored twice as West Ham eased its relegation
fears by beating West Brom. It was just the Hammers’ third win
in 12 games, but moved them six points clear of the drop zone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 