-- Argentina Offers One-Sixth of Court-Ordered Bond Payment
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-03-30T06:07:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-30/argentina-submits-payment-proposal-to-court-in-bonds-case.html
Argentina , which defaulted on a
record $95 billion in sovereign debt in 2001, proposed giving
holders of $1.3 billion of the repudiated bonds about one-sixth
of what a New York judge has said they’re entitled to receive.  The country’s filing of the proposed plan yesterday, less
than an hour before a midnight deadline, paves the way for the
U.S. Court of Appeals in New York to rule in a case in which a
group of creditors, led by Elliott Management Corp.’s NML
Capital Ltd., seeks to force the South American nation to pay
after more than a decade of legal fighting.  Argentina said it proposes two possibilities for
bondholders to exchange their defaulted debt for new bonds.
Argentine officials will submit a bill to their nation’s
Congress to provide for the plan to be implemented, the
government said in a 22-page letter filed in court.  “Argentina’s proposal accounts for past-due amounts to
bring the debt current, provides for a fair return going
forward, and also gives an upside in the form of annual payments
if Argentina’s economy grows,” the country’s lawyers said in
the letter. “The proposal fulfills the court’s dual objectives
to satisfy the pari passu clause: non-discrimination in payment
priority and equal treatment among bondholders.”  NML Recovery  According to Argentina, the payment formula set by a New
York judge that the country is challenging in the appeal, would
pay NML Capital $720 million. That compares with an estimated
value of $120.6 million for NML under one of the payment
alternatives it is proposing, the so-called discount option.  In its letter, Argentina estimates that NML paid
$48.7 million for the bonds in 2008.  “The formula adopted by the district court would cause
great harm to the exchange bondholders while giving plaintiffs a
return that is exorbitant on its face,” Argentina said in the
letter.  In 2005 and 2010, Argentina offered its creditors new
bonds, at a deep discount. About 91 percent of bondholders
agreed to the debt restructuring. NML and other holdouts have
tried to use U.S. courts to enforce their rights under the
original bond agreements.  Argentina’s top leaders previously vowed never to pay the
“vulture” investors, many of which bought the distressed bonds
in hopes of turning a profit. Argentina’s legislature in 2005
passed a so-called lock law barring payment on the defaulted
bonds.  A decision forcing Argentina to pay defaulted bondholders
immediately would expose the nation to $43 billion in additional
claims it can’t pay and trigger a new default, the government
has said.  Par Option  Under Argentina’s proposal, a so-called par option would
give bondholders new bonds due in 2038 in a nominal face amount
equal to the amount of their defaulted debt, plus unpaid
interest up to the end of 2001. The par bonds would pay interest
that rises from 2.5 percent to 5.25 percent a year over the life
of the bonds. They would also receive a one-time cash payment to
compensate for interest they would have earned if the bonds had
been issued on Dec. 31, 2003, according to the letter.  The holders would receive additional payments when the
Argentine gross domestic product growth exceeds about 3 percent
a year, the government said in the letter.  The discount option would give bondholders discount bonds
due in 2033, that would be less than the defaulted amount, with
an 8.28 percent annual rate and an increase in principal over
time. They would be compensated for past due interest on those
bonds with new bonds due in 2017 that pay 8.75 percent annually,
according to the letter.  The holders would also receive GDP-tied payments, according
to the proposal.  No Better Terms  Argentina said its proposal wouldn’t allow the plaintiffs
in the lawsuit to force it to offer payment on better terms than
those received by bondholders who agreed to the debt
restructurings.  Eugenio Bruno, an attorney at the Buenos Aires law firm
Estudio Garrido, said in an e-mail that Argentina’s proposal is
similar to past debt-restructuring offers by the country that
have been rejected by NML and the other holdouts.  If the government were to offer a better deal, it would
trigger provisions allowing holders of the exchange bonds to
take advantage of more favorable terms offered to the holdouts,
he said.  Bruno represents Alfonso Prat-Gay, a former governor of
Argentina’s central bank, who submitted a brief in the case
supporting his country’s effort to overturn the ruling. Bruno
said he also advises exchange bondholders and holdouts who
aren’t involved in litigation.  Court Order  In November, U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa in  Manhattan 
said Argentina must pay the entire $1.3 billion claimed by the
creditors in the lawsuit whenever it made any payment on its
restructured debt. The issue was argued in front of the appeals
court on Feb. 27.  On March 1, the appeals court ordered Argentina to provide
a suggested formula for paying the creditors, led by NML
Capital, which refused to take the restructured bonds at a deep
discount.  Argentina’s lawyer, in the Feb. 27 hearing, “appeared to
propose” an alternative to the payment formula devised by
Griesa, according to the appeals court. The three-judge panel
gave Argentina a final chance to influence its decision. The
judges said they may ask the creditors to file a response before
they issue a ruling.  Court’s Requirements  The judges said Argentina must tell them how and when it
proposes to make current its payments on the defaulted bonds and
the rate it proposes to pay. The panel also sought assurances
that Argentina’s government would take the necessary actions to
make the payments.  The panel said March 26 that it won’t grant a full-court
reconsideration of its ruling in a related appeal. In that
decision, the court barred Argentina from treating restructured-
debt holders more favorably than holders of the repudiated debt.  The lower court case is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic of
Argentina, 08-06978, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan). The appeal is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic
of Argentina, 12-00105, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit (New York).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  