-- Argentina One-Sixth Bond Offer Seen as ‘Thumbing Nose’
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-03-30T16:05:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-30/argentina-one-sixth-bond-offer-seen-as-thumbing-nose-.html
Argentina , which defaulted on a
record $95 billion in sovereign debt in 2001, proposed giving
holders of $1.3 billion of the repudiated bonds about one-sixth
of what a U.S. judge has said they’re entitled to receive--a
move one analyst called “thumbing its nose at the court.”  The country’s filing of its proposed plan yesterday, one
hour before a deadline set by the court weeks ago, paves the way
for the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  New York  to rule in a case in
which a group of creditors, led by hedge fund Elliott Management
Corp.’s NML Capital Ltd., seek to force the South American
nation to pay after more than a decade of litigation.  Argentina said it proposes two possibilities for
bondholders to exchange their defaulted debt for new bonds.
Argentine officials will submit a bill to their nation’s
Congress to provide for the plan to be implemented, the
government said in a 22-page letter filed in court.  “After taking the full month available to work on its
response, Argentina came back last night with a proposal for
exactly the same package that it had offered back in 2010,” Joe Kogan, head of emerging-market debt strategy at Scotia  Capital
Markets , said in a note this morning. Kogan said he expects the
country’s bonds to fall tomorrow “upon news of Argentina’s
continued intransigence.” He added: “The proposal itself
appears intended for local Argentine consumption as the
government seeks to reiterate once again that it will not pay
holdouts more than what Argentina gave to exchange
bondholders.”  Pay Immediately  A decision forcing Argentina to pay defaulted bondholders
immediately would expose the nation to $43 billion in additional
claims it can’t pay and trigger a new default, the government
has said. With yesterday’s proposal, such a ruling by the
federal appeals court in New York may come at any time.  In a press conference today in Buenos Aires, Argentine Vice
President  Amado Boudou  said the country won’t issue more debt to
repay old debt as part its proposal. Boudou said the lower U.S.
court ruling it’s fighting would mean a 1,300% gain in five
years for holdouts.  According to Argentina, the payment formula it’s
challenging--set by a New York federal judge--would give NML
Capital $720 million. That compares with an estimated value of
$120.6 million for NML under one of the payment alternatives the
nation is proposing, the so-called discount option.  “Argentina’s proposal accounts for past-due amounts to
bring the debt current, provides for a fair return going forward,
and also gives an upside in the form of annual payments if
Argentina’s economy grows,” the country’s lawyers said in its
letter. “The proposal fulfills the court’s dual objectives to
satisfy the pari passu clause: non-discrimination in payment
priority and equal treatment among bondholders.”  New Bonds  In 2005 and 2010, Argentina offered its creditors new bonds,
at a deep discount. About 91 percent of bondholders agreed to
the debt restructuring, or exchange.  NML and other holdouts have tried to use U.S. courts to
enforce their rights under the original bond agreements.  In its letter to the appellate court yesterday, Argentina
estimates that NML paid $48.7 million for the bonds in 2008.  “The formula adopted by the district court would cause
great harm to the exchange bondholders while giving plaintiffs a
return that is exorbitant on its face,” Argentina said.  Argentina’s top leaders previously vowed never to pay the
“vulture” investors, many of which bought the distressed bonds
in hopes of turning a profit. Argentina’s legislature in 2005
passed a so-called lock law barring payment on the defaulted
bonds.  Par Option  Under Argentina’s proposal, a so-called par option, which
is intended for small accountholders, would give bondholders new
bonds due in 2038 in a nominal face amount equal to the amount
of their defaulted debt, plus unpaid interest up to the end of
2001. The par bonds would pay interest that rises from 2.5
percent to 5.25 percent a year over the life of the bonds. They
would also receive a one-time cash payment to compensate for
interest they would have earned if the bonds had been issued on
Dec. 31, 2003, according to the letter.  The holders would receive additional payments when the
Argentine gross domestic product growth exceeds about 3 percent
a year, the government said in the letter.  The discount option would give bondholders discount bonds
due in 2033, less than the defaulted amount, with an 8.28
percent annual rate and an increase in principal over time. They
would be compensated for past due interest on those bonds with
new bonds due in 2017 that pay 8.75 percent annually, according
to the letter.  The holders would also receive GDP-tied payments, according
to the proposal.  No Better Terms  “It is our hope that the plaintiffs will finally join the
92% of creditors, accept this fair and equitable offer and put
this difficult period to rest,” said Sean O’Shea, a lawyer for
the exchange bondholders, in an e-mailed statement.  Argentina said its proposal wouldn’t allow the plaintiffs
in the lawsuit to force it to offer payment on better terms than
those received by bondholders who agreed to the restructuring.  Eugenio Bruno, an attorney at the  Buenos Aires  law firm
Estudio Garrido, said in an e-mail that Argentina’s proposal is
similar to past debt-restructuring offers by the country that
have been rejected by NML and the other holdouts.  If the government were to offer a better deal, it would
trigger provisions allowing holders of the exchange bonds to
take advantage of more favorable terms offered to the holdouts,
he said.  Former Governor  Bruno represents Alfonso Prat-Gay, a former governor of
Argentina’s central bank, who submitted a brief in the case
supporting his country’s effort to overturn the lower U.S. court
ruling. Bruno said he also advises exchange bondholders and
holdouts who aren’t involved in litigation.  In November, U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa in  Manhattan 
said Argentina must pay the entire $1.3 billion claimed by the
creditors in the lawsuit whenever it made any payment on its
restructured debt. The issue was argued before the appeals court
on Feb. 27 in Manhattan.  On March 1, the appellate court ordered Argentina to
provide a suggested formula for paying the creditors, led by NML
Capital, which refused to take the restructured bonds at a deep
discount.  Argentina’s lawyer, in the Feb. 27 hearing, “appeared to
propose” an alternative to the payment formula devised by
Griesa, according to the appeals court. The three-judge panel
gave Argentina a final chance to influence its decision.  The judges may ask for a response from the creditors to
yesterday’s filing or come to a decision without one.  Court’s Requirements  The appellate judges said Argentina must tell them how and
when it proposes to make current its payments on the defaulted
bonds and the rate it proposes to pay. The panel also sought
assurances that Argentina’s government would take the necessary
actions to make the payments.  In a related case, the U.S. Court of Appeals said March 26
that it won’t grant a full-court reconsideration of an earlier
ruling. In that decision, a three-judge panel barred Argentina
from treating restructured-debt holders more favorably than
holders of the repudiated debt.  Joshua Rosner , an analyst at Graham Fisher & Co., said in
an e-mailed note this morning that Argentina’s last minute
proposal in the current appeal amounted to the South American
nation “ignoring (even thumbing its nose at)” the court.  The lower court case is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic of
Argentina, 08-06978, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan). The appeal is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic
of Argentina, 12-00105, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit (New York).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in the U.S. Court of Appeals in New York
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  