-- Beijing Curbs Second Home Buying as China Cools Property Market
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-30T23:09:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-30/beijing-bans-single-person-households-from-buying-second-homes.html
China ’s capital, Beijing, banned
single-person households from buying more than one residence and
increased the minimum down-payment for all buyers of second
homes as the government seeks to cool the property market.  The new measures take effect today, the official Xinhua
News Agency reported yesterday. The city will also enforce a 20
percent tax on  capital gains  from property, it said. Current
rules allow each household with a Beijing residence permit to
buy a second home, opening the way for couples to divorce on
paper to double their ability to invest.  “This will help to calm people’s panic about home
prices,” said  Yi Xianrong , a Beijing-based researcher at the
 Chinese Academy of Social Sciences , which advises the Cabinet.
“At the same time, restrictions on home purchases don’t change
the fundamental demand, and it seems the new measures in Beijing
are aimed more at short-term problems rather than long-term
healthy development of the property market.”  Prices in the capital jumped 5.9 percent from a year
earlier in February, the biggest increase since February 2011,
China’s National Bureau of Statistics said March 18. Prices
across the country rose 160 percent in 1998-2011 after ownership
passed into private hands, government data show.  The city government of  Shanghai , where new home prices in
February rose 3.4 percent from a year earlier, also issued a
notice saying the city will increase down-payment requirements
and  interest rates  for second-home mortgages, while prohibiting
banks from providing credit to third-home buyers.  Property Bubble  The measures come a month after former Premier  Wen Jiabao ,
during his last days in office, ordered the central bank to
raise down-payment requirements for second mortgages in cities
with excessive price gains and told local governments with the
biggest price pressures to tighten home-purchase limits.  China has “very serious” property market bubbles in some
regions, Xiang Songzuo, chief economist of  Agricultural Bank of
China , told a forum in Beijing March 29. China’s property curbs
have seen “very limited” results as these measures are
focusing on limiting demand while China should instead focus on
boosting supply, Xiang said.  The measures announced by Beijing yesterday will depress
property trading in the city in the next six months, Hu Jinhui,
vice president of Bacic & 5i5j, the second-biggest real estate
broker in Beijing, said in a statement.  “ Home prices  will firstly stop rising before a possible
moderation in the second half,” Hu said.  Beijing, a city of about 20 million residents and a magnet
for migrants from other provinces, has been implementing other
rules including banning residents from buying more than two
homes. Shanghai has been banning unmarried non-locals from
buying homes in the city.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7731 or
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stan James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  