-- Belgian 2013 Budget Deal to Shrink Deficit, Lower Debt
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-03-30T13:24:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-30/belgian-2013-budget-deal-to-shrink-deficit-lower-debt.html
Belgium  will cut spending, raise
taxes and sell state assets as part of a 2013 budget deal that
aims to reduce debt to 100 percent of gross domestic product,
the government said.  The budget will reduce the deficit to 2.46 percent of GDP,
including a structural shortfall of 1.8 percent, the government
said today in Brussels. The deal calls for 1.4 billion euros
($1.8 billion) in structural adjustments to lower the deficit,
along with about 1 billion euros in one-off asset sales over the
next year to meet the debt target.  “Budget discipline is not a goal in itself,” Prime
Minister Elio Di Rupo said at a press conference in Brussels.
Rather, it’s “a means to overcome the crisis,” he said.  Belgium’s  budget deficit  surpassed European Union targets
last year as a shrinking economy curbed tax revenue and money
was used to replenish  Dexia SA (DEXB) ’s capital. The deficit widened to
3.9 percent of GDP in 2012 from 3.7 percent the year before, the
Brussels-based  National Bank of Belgium  said in a March 28
statement.  The Belgian economy shrank 0.2 percent last year. Di Rupo
said the 2013 budget aims to address a “difficult” situation,
meet European targets and help small and medium-sized
businesses.  “Since November 2012, the deterioration of economic growth
and thus the drastic decrease in receipts has had a  considerable
impact  on our public finances,” Di Rupo said. Today’s budget
agreement aims to “reinforce the fundamentals that are
necessary to leave the crisis,” he said.  Asset Sales  Belgium will aim to complete the asset sales this year,
Finance Minister Koen Geens told reporters today. He declined to
give details of the planned sales so as not to affect pricing.  The Belgian Parliament will need to approve proposed  tax
measures , Geens said. Most of the other measures won’t require
legislative action.  “There will be no major hurdle in order to realize these
measures,” Geens said. “As far as the tax measures are
concerned, I will need new legislation before the summer.”  Belgium is aiming to achieve “structural equilibrium” in
its finances by 2015, Geens said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  