-- Business-Labor Deal Marks Major Step To Immigration Bill
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2013-03-31T17:55:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-30/business-labor-agreement-reached-on-u-s-guest-worker-program.html
A deal between business and labor
leaders on allocating visas to low-skilled foreign workers
improves the chances that the Senate will pass an immigration
bill, said three members of the bipartisan group of senators who
are negotiating an agreement.  Senator  Charles Schumer , a  New York  Democrat, said he
expected the bill to reach the Judiciary Committee in April and
the full Senate in May.  “With the agreement between business and labor, every
major policy issue has been resolved,” Schumer, one of the
eight senators negotiating the agreement, said on NBC’s “Meet
the Press.”  Still, Schumer, along with Republicans Jeff Flake of
 Arizona  and  Lindsey Graham  of  South Carolina , said there was no
final agreement among the lawmakers because details of
legislation haven’t been written.  “We’re much closer with labor and business agreeing on
this guest-worker plan,” Flake said on NBC. “That doesn’t mean
we’ve crossed every ’I’ or dotted every ’T’ or vice-versa.”  The agreement is designed to resolve a long-simmering
dispute over a proposed guest-worker program that had been
impeding Senate efforts to spearhead the broadest changes in
immigration law in almost 30 years. The heads of the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce, the nation’s largest business lobbying
group, and the AFL-CIO, the biggest labor federation, reached
the accord late on March 29.  ‘First Step’  The plan is “just a first step” on what will be a long
and rocky road toward revamping U.S. immigration law, said Tamar Jacoby, president of ImmigrationWorks USA, a nationwide
federation of state-based business groups that advocate
rewriting immigration laws.  If history is any guide, “battles will be fierce” and
immigration-law proposals will face additional obstacles as they
work through Congress, Jacoby said yesterday.  Aides to lawmakers and the Chamber of Commerce stressed
that the deal hasn’t been approved by the bipartisan Senate
group.  “The senators will make the decisions about any final
agreements and what makes the best public policy overall,”
Blair Latoff Holmes, spokeswoman for the U.S. Chamber, said in
an e-mailed statement.  Republican Challenge  Democrats who control the Senate will have difficulty
garnering the 60 votes needed for passage in that chamber, and
the Republican-controlled House poses an even greater challenge.  President  George W. Bush , a Republican, tried
unsuccessfully from 2005 to 2007 to get immigration legislation
through Congress. President  Barack Obama ’s push for a smaller-
scale immigration law in 2010 similarly failed.  Florida Senator Marco Rubio, a Republican member of the
Senate group, said yesterday in a letter to Senate Judiciary
Committee Chairman  Patrick Leahy , a Vermont Democrat, that “a
rush to legislate, without fully considering all views and input
from all senators, could be fatal to the effort of earning the
public’s confidence.”  Rubio said today in a statement that, while he was
“encouraged” by the labor-business agreement, it would be
“premature” to assume that the Senate group had reached a
final decision. Any legislation the Senate group endorses “will
only be a starting point,” he said.  “In order to succeed, this process cannot be rushed or
done in secret,” Rubio said.  Citizenship Path  The effort’s centerpiece would establish a 13-year path to
citizenship for the estimated 11 million undocumented immigrants
in the U.S., which Obama has made a priority for his second
term.  Republican opposition to providing a citizenship path, a
major stumbling block in past efforts, has lessened since the
November election, in which Obama won 71 percent of Hispanic
votes cast. Republican leaders have said the party needs to do
more to court the fast-growing voter bloc.  “They will have a path to citizenship but it will be
earned, it will be long, it will be hard,” Graham, a South
Carolina Republican, said on CNN’s “ State of the Union .”  Comments made March 27 by Representative Don Young, an
 Alaska  Republican, highlighted some of the tensions and
political challenges his party faces as it discusses immigration
and works to attract Hispanic voters.  ‘Insensitive’ Comment  On radio station KRBD in Ketchikan, Alaska, Young referred
to Hispanic farm workers as “wetbacks,” drawing quick
condemnation from lawmakers in both parties, including
Representative  John Boehner , an  Ohio Republican  who is speaker
of the House.  Young, 79, has been in the House for 40 years, making him
the fifth-longest-serving current member.  He issued two statements, apologizing in the second one for
the “insensitive term” and saying there was “no malice”
intended.  Schumer said today that Young’s latest statement was
“fuller” than a previous one in which Young didn’t apologize.  To get the business-labor agreement U.S. Chamber of
Commerce President  Tom Donohue  and  Richard Trumka , head of the
AFL-CIO, reached a verbal agreement during a conference call
with Schumer, according to a person familiar with the
discussion, who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss a
private call. Schumer called White House Chief of Staff  Denis McDonough  to alert him to the deal, the person said.  Senate Compromise  “This issue has always been the deal-breaker on
immigration reform, but not this time,” Schumer said yesterday
in an e-mailed statement.  The agreement “seems like a fair compromise,” said
Marshall Fitz, head of immigration policy at the Democratic-
aligned Center for American Progress. “The two sides have been
looking at this through the prism of what they were losing.
Appears they have reached a point where they both understand
that they are getting a lot of what they wanted.”  “I think this agreement will seal the deal” for a Senate
compromise, Fitz said. “Labor gets more data-driven
accountability in the system; business gets a new worker program
that is more flexible than the current patchwork of temporary
visas.”  The agreement would establish a federal bureau called the
Bureau of Immigration and Labor Market Research and a visa
program called the W Visa Program, according to the AFL-CIO. The
bureau would use labor market and demographic information to
identify labor shortages and to help set an annual visa cap. It
would be funded through registered employer fees.  Visa Program  Employers seeking workers in lesser-skilled fields
including hospitality, janitorial services, retail and
construction could apply through the new visa program, which
also would allow workers to petition for permanent status after
working for one year.  The program would start with 20,000 visas in the first
year, 35,000 in the second, 55,000 in the third and 75,000 in
the fourth. In year five the number would grow or shrink based
on a formula that takes into account the  unemployment rate , the
number of  job openings  and other factors.  The number of visas awarded annually could never exceed
200,000, and one-third of all visas would go only to businesses
with under 25 employees, according to the AFL-CIO. Construction
visas would be capped at 15,000 per year, addressing Trumka’s
concern about a potentially adverse impact on that industry.  ‘New Model’  “Each day we have become more encouraged that our goal is
in reach, and quickly,” Trumka said yesterday in a statement.
“We have created a new model, a modern visa system that
includes both a bureau to collect and analyze labor market data,
as well as significant worker protections.”  The proposal also borrows language from a current law
requiring employers to offer visa holders wages and working
conditions that wouldn’t adversely affect the wages and working
conditions of U.S. workers. That means wages must be equal to
the actual level paid by the employer to other workers with
similar experience or the prevailing wage for the job at issue,
whichever is greater.  The deal between labor and business would apply to visas
issued to foreign workers in low-skilled fields such as
construction and restaurant and hotel work. It doesn’t deal with
the issue of farm workers, who are covered under the existing H-
2A program, which provides for temporary labor to complete
seasonal tasks, mainly harvests.  Verifying Status  Groups including the  American Farm Bureau Federation , the
biggest U.S. farmer group, say the H-2A program’s regulations
are too onerous and inflexible and are lobbying for its
replacement. The United Farmworkers say any new plan must
include wage and labor-condition protections.  The measure will probably include a better system for
companies to verify the immigration status of job applicants and
new rules that would prioritize the family members who can
immigrate to the U.S. legally.  Flake and Schumer also said they were working on creating
“metrics” to measure the progress toward securing the U.S.
border with  Mexico .  “We’re going to have to have that before we go any
further,” Flake said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net ;
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  