-- Disney to Release Separate ‘Iron Man 3’ Version in China
-- B y   A n t h o n y   P a l a z z o
-- 2013-03-30T03:06:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-30/disney-to-release-separate-iron-man-3-version-in-china.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  will release a
separate version of its Marvel comic-book movie “Iron Man 3”
in  China , an unexpected plot twist for Hollywood’s most
prominent collaboration yet in the country.  Disney won’t seek official Chinese co-production status for
“Iron Man 3,” according to an e-mailed statement. The film,
set to debut in the U.S. on May 3, was partly filmed in China
with partner DMG Entertainment. A release date for the Chinese
version wasn’t announced.  The decision, just over a month before “Iron Man 3” is
set to kick off the U.S. summer movie season, hints at the
challenges confronting Hollywood studios as they expand in
China’s government-controlled market, which surpassed  Japan  last
year as the biggest box office outside the U.S. The first two
“Iron Man” movies grossed a total $1.21 billion worldwide.  The studio won’t comment beyond the statement about the
reasons for the decision, differences between the two versions
or when the Chinese movie will be released, Melissa Zukerman of
Principal Communications Group, a spokeswoman for Marvel
Studios, said.  DMG, which produced 2012’s “Looper,” is marketing and
distributing the film in China, according to the statement.
Chinese actor Wang Xueqi will appear in both versions, and both
include footage filmed in Beijing in December.  The Chinese version will feature actress Fan Bingbing and
will include bonus footage for the Chinese audience, according
to the statement.  Disney added 0.6 percent to $56.80 on March 28 and has
climbed 14 percent  this year . U.S. markets were closed March 29
for Good Friday.  Chinese Movies  China limits the number of foreign movies released into
theaters each year to about 34. U.S. studios have sought to
bring more movies in by making co-productions, which don’t count
against the quota.  While the government censors all movies, co-productions
must meet additional requirements. For example, one-third of the
major actors must be Chinese, according to Robert Cain, who
writes the China Film Biz  blog . Co-productions also require a
certain amount of Chinese cultural content, which could limit
the film’s appeal elsewhere, making co-production status less
attractive to the studio, he wrote in a March 7 blog post.  Disney said in April 2012 it would co-produce “Iron Man
3” with DMG, which would make an investment in the production,
manage the Chinese co-production and jointly produce the film in
China, according to the statement at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony Palazzo in  Los Angeles  at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  