-- Michigan, Louisville Advance to NCAA Tournament Regional Finals
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-03-30T02:38:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-30/michigan-louisville-advance-to-ncaa-tournament-regional-finals.html
The  University of Michigan  and
 University of Louisville  advanced to the regional finals at the
National Collegiate Athletic Association basketball men’s
tournament.  The Wolverines rallied from a 14-point second half deficit
to beat  Kansas  87-85 in overtime at  Cowboys Stadium  in Arlington,
 Texas . In the tournament’s first overtime game, Kansas missed
shots to win at the end of both the second half and the extra
period.  Michigan  guard Trey Burke scored 23 points, including a
three-point shot to tie the game at 76-76 with 4.2 seconds left
in the second half. Wolverines forward Mitch McGary added 25
points and 14 rebounds.  “We just stuck with it,” Burke said in a televised
interview after the game. “We’re in those situations every day
in practice and we just try to find ways to come back and win.
I’m so proud of my team.”  Michigan, in the regional finals for the first time since
1994, will face either Florida or Florida Gulf Coast in the
South regional final on March 31.  In the first game of the evening, Louisville guard Russ
Smith scored a game-high 31 points as the Cardinals, the top
overall seed in the tournament, beat Oregon 77-69 for their 13th
consecutive victory. Louisville took a 13-7 lead five minutes
and 23 seconds into the game and never trailed again by less
than six points.  Louisville coach  Rick Pitino  is now 11-0 in round of 16
games, including a 5-0 record with the Cardinals. The only top
seed remaining in the tournament, Louisville is in the regional
finals for the fourth time in the past six seasons, where they
will meet the winner of tonight’s game between Duke and Michigan
State.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  