-- Michigan Wins in Overtime, to Face Florida in Regional Final
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-03-30T05:45:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-30/michigan-wins-in-overtime-to-face-florida-in-regional-final.html
The  University of Michigan  won the
first overtime game of the men’s college basketball national
championship, while the  University of Florida  ended  Florida Gulf
Coast University ’s unprecedented tournament run.  The No. 4 seed in the 16-team South region,  Michigan ’s
Wolverines rallied from a 14-point second-half deficit yesterday
to defeat the top-seeded University of Kansas 87-85 in overtime
behind 23 points from guard Trey Burke. Michigan advances to the
regional finals of the National Collegiate Athletic Association
tournament to play third-seeded  Florida , which beat Florida Gulf
Coast 62-50.  “We just stuck with it,” Burke said in a televised
interview after the game. “We’re in those situations every day
in practice and we just try to find ways to come back and win.
I’m so proud of my team.”  Florida’s Gators took advantage of a 16-2 run to close the
first half and cruised to a 12-point victory in Arlington,  Texas .
Florida Gulf Coast, the first No. 15 seed ever to advance to the
round of 16, committed 19 turnovers and attempted 44 field goals,
13 fewer than Florida.  In the first game of the evening, top-seeded Louisville
beat Oregon 77-69 in Indianapolis to advance to the regional
finals for the fourth time in the past six seasons. Cardinals
guard Russ Smith matched a career-high with 31 points as
Louisville, the only No. 1 seed remaining in the tournament, led
by at least six points through the entire second half.  Winners of 13 consecutive games dating back to Feb. 14,
Louisville will face second-seeded Duke in the Midwest regional
finals tomorrow. Blue Devils guard Seth Curry scored 29 points
as Duke defeated Michigan State 71-61 in Indianapolis. The win
marks the 13th regional finals appearance for Blue Devils coach
Mike Krzyzewski.  “Seth Curry put us on his back offensively,” Krzyzewski
said in a televised interview after the game. “And then
defensively we played as a unit.”  Michigan never led in the second half against  Kansas , tying
the game with 4.2 seconds remaining on a three-point shot from
Burke. The Jayhawks blew a 10-point lead with 2:53 to play and
missed shots to win at the end of regulation and overtime.  Syracuse will play Marquette at 4:30 p.m. today in the East
regional final in  Washington , D.C. The Orange defeated  the
region’s top-seeded  Indiana  on March 28, while the Golden Eagles
topped second-seeded Miami.  Ohio State will face ninth-seeded Wichita State, the
lowest-seeded team remaining in the tournament, in the West
regional final tonight at 7:05 p.m. (Eastern Daylight Time) in
Los Angeles. The Buckeyes, a No. 2 seed, rallied from an 11-
point first-half deficit to beat  Arizona  two nights ago, while
the Shockers beat La Salle to advance to the program’s first
regional finals since 1981.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  