-- Indonesia Leader Takes Over Ruling Party as Support Fades
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2013-03-30T21:15:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-30/indonesia-leader-takes-over-ruling-party-as-support-fades.html
Indonesia’s ruling Democrat Party
selected the country’s president, Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, as
chairman as it seek to overcome corruption probes and revive its
popularity before elections.  The party’s leadership chose Yudhoyono to succeed Anas
Urbaningrum at an extraordinary congress in Bali yesterday, said
Transport Minister Evert Erenst Mangindaan, who led the meeting.
Urbaningrum, who was named chairman in May 2010, resigned last
month after becoming at least the third senior party official in
less than two years to be investigated by the country’s anti-
corruption agency.  Yudhoyono, who must step down after his maximum second-
consecutive presidential term ends next year, may help the party
regain credibility, said Kuskridho Ambardi, a political analyst
at the University of Gadjah Mada. “The SBY factor is still
attractive to some voters,” Mada said text message, referring
to Yudhoyono’s initials.  The Democrat Party’s approval rating sank to 8.3 percent in
February, according to a survey by Saiful Muljani Research &
Consulting. It won 20.85 percent of the national vote in the
2009 legislative election and 148 of parliament’s 560 seats.  Yudhoyono’s decade at the helm of Southeast Asia’s biggest
economy is nearing an end as a trade deficit pummels the rupiah
and the economy expands at the slowest pace in more than two
years. Yudhoyono will serve two years at most as chairman,
Mangindaan said. Parliamentary elections are scheduled for next
April, followed by the July ballot for president.  Corruption Probes  Former Democratic Party treasurer Muhammad Nazaruddin was
sentenced in April 2012 to almost five years prison in a bribery
case involving building projects for the 2011 Southeast Asian
Games. Youth & Sports Minister Andi Mallarangeng resigned in
December after he was named a suspect in a case related to a
sports center in Bogor, West Java. Chairman Urbaningrum was
named a suspect in the same case last month. Both men denied any
wrongdoing.  Rival parties are gaining support. Former President
Megawati Soekarnoputri, chairwoman of the Indonesian Democratic
Party of Struggle, is leading the presidential race at 20.7
percent, followed by Golkar Party Chairman Aburizal Bakrie at
20.3 percent, according to a March survey by the Indonesian
Survey Circle, the Jakarta Post reported March 18.  “If we look at the surveys, none of the popular candidates
are from the Democrat Party,” Fauzi Ichsan, Jakarta-based
economist at  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , said in an interview before
yesterday’s meeting in Bali. “So whatever the outcome is at the
congress, its relevancy to the presidential election will be
small.”  Yudhoyono Victories  Yudhoyono has had some recent victories. A parliamentary
committee approved his choice for central bank chief, Finance
Minister Agus Martowardojo, by a vote of 46 to seven on March
26. Martowardojo’s plan to raise fuel prices was scuttled last
year by violent protests including an advance on parliament.  The nomination of Martowardojo as governor of  Bank
Indonesia (BBRI)  may be an attempt to sideline him from government
decisions and “open the door for a more profligate approach to
fiscal policy ahead of the election,” Gareth Leather, a London-
based Asia economist at Capital Economics Ltd., said in a March
11 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net  