-- Kenya Supreme Court Upholds Kenyatta’s Presidential Vote Win
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k   a n d   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2013-03-30T19:56:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-30/kenya-supreme-court-upholds-kenyatta-s-presidential-vote-win.html
Kenya ’s  Supreme Court  upheld Uhuru Kenyatta’s victory in this month’s presidential election,
dismissing a petition from defeated candidate Raila Odinga for
the result to be annulled,  The court “reached a unanimous decision on all the four
issues for determination,” Chief Justice Willy Mutunga said,
reading a ruling on behalf of the six-judge bench in the
capital, Nairobi. Kenyatta and his deputy,  William Ruto , “were
validly elected,” he said.  The decision clears the way for the inauguration of
Kenyatta, who is facing a separate legal challenge at the
 International Criminal Court  on charges of crimes against
humanity. Kenyatta, Ruto, and a Kenyan radio presenter are
accused by the ICC of orchestrating violence after the last
presidential election five years ago. They all maintain they are
innocent and will fight the charges.  “I want to assure all Kenyans, including those who did not
vote for the Jubilee Coalition, and indeed even those who
challenged the validity of my election, that my government will
work with, and serve all Kenyans without any discrimination
whatsoever,” Kenyatta said in an e-mailed statement.  Kenyatta extended an olive branch to Odinga and other
competitors to join him “so that we can work together in the
interest of the well-being of our people.”  Police used tear gas to disperse groups of youth burning
tires and blocking roads in Kisumu after the verdict was read.
Widespread fighting engulfed the western port city after the
2007 election.  “The situation at the moment is under control and police
are patrolling,” Elisha Cherono, head of the administrative
police in Kisumu, said by phone today.  Fair, Transparent  Kenyatta, 51, won this year’s election with 50.07 percent
of votes cast, surpassing by about 8,000 ballots the absolute
majority required to avoid a runoff, while Odinga got 43.3
percent. More than 12 million Kenyans voted, a record 86 percent
turnout, according to the country’s electoral agency.  The vote “was conducted in a free, fair, transparent and
credible manner,” Mutunga said.  Odinga, 68, said the March 4 vote should be nullified and
new elections held because of the failure of electronic systems
including finger-print identification readers and the mobile
phone-based transmission of provisional results. Turnout
surpassed the number of registered voters at some polling
stations and some return forms were doctored, he said.  “I wish the president-elect, Uhuru Kenyatta, and his team,
well,” Odinga said after the ruling. “Casting doubt on the
judgment of the court could lead to higher political and
economic uncertainty, and make it more difficult for our country
to move forward.”  Not Fraud  The ruling means discrepancies pointed out by Odinga
“don’t amount to enough to allow Odinga’s petition to
succeed,” Mwalimu Mati, head of the independent watchdog Mars
Group, said in a phone interview from Nairobi after the verdict.
“They indicated institutional challenges which can be remedied
and not corruption or fraud.”  The court had ordered forms to be scrutinized from all
polling stations. The Registrar of the Supreme Court said in a
report yesterday that it examined documents from 18,000 out of
33,400 sites and found some discrepancies including some sites
with missing forms.  British Prime Minister  David Cameron  congratulated Kenyatta
on his victory and urged Kenyans to accept the decision of the
court, according to an e-mailed statement from the U.K. High
Commission in Nairobi.  The U.S. government also congratulated Kenyatta and
commended Odinga for accepting the verdict, urging all of
Kenya’s citizens to do the same.  “Now is the time for Kenyans to come together to fully
implement the political, institutional and accountability
reforms envisioned in the Kenyan constitution,” a statement
from the U.S. Office of the Press Secretary said.  Allegations of vote-rigging by Odinga after he lost his
campaign for the presidency in December 2007 led to two months
of ethnic clashes that killed more than 1,100 people and cut
economic growth to 1.5 percent in 2008 from 7 percent the year
before. Kenya is  East Africa ’s largest economy and the regional
hub for companies including Google Inc. and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)   No Appeal  The Supreme Court’s decision on a presidential election
petition is final and no appeal is possible, according to the
constitution. Kenyatta is set to be sworn in by April 9.  Kenyatta’s trial at The Hague-based court is scheduled to
begin in July. He is fighting to have the ICC prosecutor’s
office drop the charges, as it did earlier this month for his
co-accused Francis Muthaura, the former head of Kenya’s civil
service, after a key witness recanted his testimony.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  