-- Napolitano Vows to Find Compromise Creating Italy Government
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-03-30T15:02:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-30/napolitano-vows-to-gain-a-compromise-creating-italian-government.html
Italian President Giorgio Napolitano pledged to continue efforts to broker a parliamentary
compromise aimed at giving the country a new government and
denied he’s thinking about resigning.  “I have come to the conclusion that, even though I am left
with very limited options to help the formation of a government,
I can until the last day at least try to create the most
favorable conditions toward unblocking a political situation
hardened by irreconcilable positions,” Napolitano said today at
a press conference in  Rome . He will create two teams to try to
identify common ground on policy, he said.  Napolitano is responsible for appointing the next prime
minister and must find a leader capable of bringing together a
majority of lawmakers in a divided  parliament . The 87-year-old
head of state, whose seven-year term ends May 15, has struggled
to build a consensus among lawmakers since elections last month
left the upper house split into three blocs.  Italy’s La Repubblica newspaper  reported  today that
Napolitano was considering resigning to make it easier for his
successor to form a government. Presidents in the final stages
of their mandates aren’t permitted to dissolve parliament and
call new elections, an option that would be available to the
next incumbent.  Economic Stimulus  Italy needs a government with a majority in parliament to
pass economic stimulus measures and guard against bond-market
speculation in the wake of the financial  crisis in Cyprus .
Italian Prime Minister Mario Monti, who remains in office until
a new government is installed, can’t count on a majority in
parliament and has said he is eager for his mandate to expire.  Italy is stuck in its fourth recession since 2001, and each
of the top three political forces has proposed tax cuts aimed at
spurring growth. Investors, who buy more than 30 billion euros
($38 billion) of bonds each month to finance Italy’s debt, are
counting on a deal that will ensure a government strong enough
to pass measures to boost the economy and manage the budget.  Napolitano is seeking the help of the two teams after
failing to broker a compromise when he met individually with
leaders of the four biggest parliamentary groups yesterday. The
members of the teams may be announced today, the president’s
office said.  Five Star  The traditional balance of power in parliament was upset by
the emergence this year of the euro-skeptic Five Star Movement,
headed by ex-comic Beppe Grillo. Five Star won a quarter of the
votes in the Feb. 24-25 election, preventing either Pier Luigi Bersani’s Democratic Party or former Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi’s People of Liberty party from securing the Senate.  Napolitano took charge of negotiations on March 28 after
Bersani failed to muster a majority.  “I will continue to act in the interests of the country
until the final day of my mandate, without hiding the
difficulties I’m still facing, and reiterating my confidence in
the chances of working through this crucial time for  Italy ,”
Napolitano said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  