-- Napolitano Names Advisers in Renewed Push for Italy Deal
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-03-31T14:31:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-30/napolitano-names-advisers-in-renewed-push-for-italian-coalition.html
Italian President Giorgio Napolitano renewed his push to forge a government from the
country’s divided parliament by drafting advisers from two of
the top three political forces.  Members of the parliamentary coalitions headed by Pier Luigi Bersani and ex-Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi were among
the 10 men selected, according to an e-mail sent late yesterday
by Napolitano’s office. Civil servants, a former politician, a
retired judge and a central banker rounded out the two lists.
Beppe Grillo’s Five Star Movement, the third-largest group, had
no lawmakers included.  The effort by Napolitano, 87, follows a week of talks among
parliamentary leaders that failed to produce a government.
Clashes that arose during the election campaign in January and
February made it difficult for Bersani and Berlusconi to come to
terms after the vote. Napolitano, in the final two months of his
seven-year term, is counting on the lawmakers loyal to Bersani
and Berlusconi to find common ground.  “What Napolitano is trying to force is a kind of road map
toward a coalition government,” said Giovanni Orsina, a history
professor at Luiss Guido Carli University in Rome. “These names
all together tell me dialogue.”  Compromise between the top two groups may be easier after
Bersani, who refused to share a cabinet with Berlusconi, took a
step back on March 28 and relinquished control of negotiations.
Berlusconi, a 76-year-old billionaire, has said he is open to
governing with Bersani’s Democratic Party. Five Star, which
campaigned for a renewal in Italian politics, has rejected
forming a government in tandem with another party.  Institutional Change  Gaetano Quagliariello, a senator in Berlusconi’s People of
Liberty party, and Luciano Violante, an ex-lawmaker with a
forerunner of the Democratic Party, are on the team set to
explore institutional changes. Democratic Party Senator Filippo
Bubbico and Giancarlo Giorgetti, a representative with the
Northern League, a Berlusconi ally, are among six members of the
team focusing on economic, social and European issues.  The work of the teams “may become in various forms the
base for compromise among the various political forces,”
Napolitano said at the presidential palace in Rome before the
members were announced. “It could become useful material also
for the tasks that will be required of the new president.”  Grillo Criticism  Napolitano reiterated that he will serve until his mandate
ends on May 15, denying reports that he was considering a
resignation to speed the entry of his successor into the talks.
Presidents in the final stages of their mandates aren’t
permitted to dissolve parliament and call new elections, an
option that would be available to the next incumbent.  Grillo, an ex-comic who characterized his party’s mission
as the French Revolution without the guillotine, criticized
Napolitano’s appointment of advisers in a blog posting today.  Italy “doesn’t need ‘caretakers of democracy,’ but rather
to make its parliament function better and quickly,” Grillo
 said . “The country doesn’t need mysterious negotiators or
facilitators of the caliber of Violante, the grand master of
backroom deals, to cite just one, to act as a group of wise
men.”  Violante, a former speaker of the lower house of
parliament, didn’t respond to a request via his  website  for
comment.  Parliamentary Majority  Italy needs a government with a majority in parliament to
take steps such as passing economic stimulus measures and to
guard against bond-market speculation in the wake of the
financial  crisis in Cyprus . Italian Prime Minister Mario Monti,
who remains in office until a new government is installed, can’t
count on a majority in parliament and has said he is eager for
his mandate to expire.  Italy is stuck in its fourth recession since 2001, and each
of the top three political forces has proposed tax cuts aimed at
spurring growth. Investors, who buy more than 30 billion euros
($38 billion) of bonds each month to finance Italy’s debt, are
counting on a deal that will ensure a government strong enough
to pass measures to boost the economy and manage the budget.  Quagliariello and Violante are joined on the institutional-
change team by Valerio Onida, a former president of Italy’s
Constitutional Court, and Mario Mauro, a senator in Monti’s
Civic Choice party who previously belonged to Berlusconi’s
group.  The economic and social team is completed by European
Affairs Minister Enzo Moavero Milanesi, Competition Commissioner
Giovanni Pitruzzella, Bank of Italy Deputy Director General
Salvatore Rossi and Enrico Giovannini, chairman of the national
statistics office Istat.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  