-- Mongolia Seeks to Play Peacemaker as North Korea Declares ‘War’
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K o h n
-- 2013-03-30T14:36:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-30/mongolia-seeks-to-play-peacemaker-as-north-korea-declares-war-.html
Mongolia called for six-party talks
to be resumed after  North Korea  said it’s in a “state of war”
with its neighbor to the south.  “Mongolia would like to extend its relationship with North
Korea,” Prime Minister Norovyn Altankhuyag said at a press
conference in Ulaanbaatar with his Japanese counterpart Shinzo Abe. “Mongolia can contribute if they initiate any meetings.”  North Korea’s official KCNA news agency stepped up its
rhetoric against South Korea a month after the secretive regime
defied global sanctions by detonating a nuclear device. Mongolia
is one of the few countries to have a working relationship with
both North Korea and the U.S., and hosted talks between the
communist state and  Japan  in November.  Six-party talks have continued, on and off, for years
between  South Korea , North Korea,  China , the U.S., Russia and
Japan. Mongolia has maintained good relations with North Korea
for decades and, in a March 7 interview, Foreign Minister
Luvsanvandan Bold said he’d broached the matter of opening up
with the hardline state.  Altankhuyag said he supports Japan’s efforts to repatriate
citizens kidnapped by North Korea, which Abe said he hopes can
be resolved during his administration.  “Japan will never accept these North Korean tests,” Abe
said, speaking at the start of a two-day visit to the Mongolian
capital. “North Korea has to follow” United Nations Security
Council resolutions, he said.  Mongolia’s booming mining sector is attracting the
attention of its neighbors and Abe agreed to cooperate on
several economic initiatives. The Japanese leader announced a
4.2 billion-yen ($45 million) loan to upgrade Ulaanbaatar’s
Power Station No. 4, built by the Soviets in 1981. The upgrade
will increase the capacity of the power station by 100 megawatts
to 580 megawatts.  Japan also aims to assist Ulaanbaatar to build its first
metro line, a 10 1/2-mile train line with 3.7 miles to be dug
underground, according to a press release issued by Mongolia.
The cooperation agreement also includes the development of a new
international airport and Mongolia’s first oil refinery.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Kohn in Ulaanbaatar at 
 mkohn5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  