-- Alford Signs With UCLA Basketball After Contract With New Mexico
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-03-31T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-30/ucla-hires-steve-alford-as-basketball-coach-replacing-howland.html
Steve Alford has signed on as men’s
basketball coach at UCLA less than two weeks after agreeing to a
10-year contract with the University of New Mexico.  Alford, who replaces the fired Ben Howland, joins the
Bruins after six seasons at the University of New Mexico. The
Lobos went 29-6 this season, winning the Mountain West
Conference regular-season and tournament championships before
losing their opening game of the National Collegiate Athletic
Association tournament to Harvard.  Before the loss to Harvard, the 48-year-old coach had
reached a deal with New Mexico that was worth more than $20
million over 10 years and was to take effect tomorrow, the
Associated Press said.  Alford agreed with UCLA on a seven-year deal worth $18.2
million, with a yearly salary of $2.6 million and a $200,000
signing bonus, AP said, citing UCLA athletic director Dan Guerrero.  “It was not an easy decision because I was extremely
happy,” Alford said, according to the AP. “I was about as
happy as I can be. When I kept thinking about things, it still
came back to UCLA. You’re talking about the premier basketball
program in the country. To have an opportunity like this, they
don’t come around every day.”  Guerrero called Alford “the perfect fit for UCLA.”  “He is part of the storied history of the game of college
basketball and understands the tradition and uniqueness of
UCLA,” Guerrero said on the school’s website. “Yet he also
connects with a new generation of players and brings an up-tempo
and team-oriented brand of basketball to Westwood.”  Alford, the captain of  Indiana ’s 1987 NCAA championship
team, has also coached at  Iowa , Missouri State and Manchester
College. He will be introduced at UCLA on April 2, the school
said.  Howland was fired March 25 after going 233-107 in 10
seasons. The Bruins were 25-10 this season and lost their
opening NCAA tournament game to  Minnesota .  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  