-- 
AB Foods Says Profit to Meet Goals on Sugar, Primark Growth

-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 
2011-09-12T08:56:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/ab-foods-says-profit-to-meet-goals-on-sugar-primark-growth-1-.html
Associated British Foods Plc (ABF)  said
second-half earnings will meet its expectations and repeated its
full-year target as sales advanced in the sugar division and the
Primark discount clothing chain.  Adjusted operating profit for the 52 weeks ending Sept. 17
will be “similar to last year’s very strong result,” London-
based AB Foods said in a statement today. Last year benefited
from 53 weeks of business.  The sugar division’s profit will be “well ahead” of last
year and better than expected, helped by higher prices, AB Foods
said. Primark sales, adjusted for 52 weeks’ trading, will
probably show 13 percent growth from last year, though the
operating margin is expected to be a “little” lower than
forecast because of a higher level of discounting in the U.K. at
the end of the summer season.  “Profitability in sugar is likely to surprise on the
upside,” analysts at MF Global in London said in a note today.
They have a “sell” recommendation on the stock.  Sales in the sugar division, which accounts for about 30
percent of profit, were boosted by strong performances in China
and  Spain , which offset the absence of export sales from the
U.K. and lower sales in  South Africa , the company said.  “We will see all of our business make progress next year,
but I think we will get very good progress in our sugar
business,” Finance Director John Bason said today in a
telephone interview, citing an increase in production.  Same-store sales at Primark will show growth for the year
of about 3 percent, the company said. Input costs next year are
expected to be lower after a “recent softening” of cotton
prices, it said.  The shares fell 6 pence, or 0.6 percent, to 1,064 pence as
of 9:41 a.m. in  London , as U.K. stocks tumbled.  AB Foods has the financial capacity to make acquisitions,
Bason said, declining to comment on speculation that the company
may be interested in Clorox Co.’s sauces unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Armorel Kenna in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  