-- 
The Latest Download: Health Records From Aetna

-- B y   C a r o l   E i s e n b e r g
-- 
2011-09-12T21:52:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/aetna-web-tool-lets-members-get-electronic-medical-records-1-.html
Aetna Inc. (AET) , the third-largest U.S.
health insurer, said 9 million customers can more easily
download electronic versions of health records from a company
website as part of a government push to promote online data.  The insurer expects by next year to give its members the
ability to send personal health records directly to doctors and
other providers across a secure system, said Brian Kelly, head
of informatics and strategic alignment for the Hartford,
Connecticut-based company.  Aetna, the acquirer of health-data vendor Medicity for $500
million last year, considers the download function a way to
promote customer wellness, Kelly said. The application provides
suggestions on techniques to manage conditions such as diabetes
and hypertension.  “It will look at your data and generate suggestions,”
Kelly said. “For instance, ‘we see you haven’t gotten your flu
shot this year,’ or, ‘you have diabetes, and we see you have
protein in your urine.’”  The service expands on the insurer’s use of personal health
records in a PDF form, allowing consumers to securely download
personal health information in a text file format that can
easily be shared with providers or family members.  The service is part of the Obama administration’s  Blue
Button initiative , a set of privacy and security practices
designed by the Veterans Administration and the Department of
Defense to promote use of personal online health data. Employers
such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , in Bentonville,  Arkansas , have
signed onto the program.  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , the largest insurer by sales,
based in Minnetonka,  Minnesota , plans to offer similar records
access to its seven million members by early 2012, said Matt
Stearns, a spokesman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carol Eisenberg in Washington at 
 Ceisenberg1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  