-- 
Thailand Shouldn’t Use Rates for Climbing Commodity Costs, Kittiratt Says

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 
2011-09-12T10:48:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/thailand-shouldn-t-use-rates-for-climbing-commodity-costs-kittiratt-says.html
Thailand ’s five-week old government
signaled it wants the nation’s central bank to stop raising
interest rates as Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra seeks to
stoke growth in  Southeast Asia ’s second-biggest economy.  “I did not agree with high interest rates to handle
inflation if it’s not demand-pull inflation,” Deputy Prime
Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong said in an interview in Bangkok
today. Yingluck’s administration has pledged to almost double
the minimum wage in parts of the country and buy rice from
farmers at above-market rates after winning the July 3 election
with support from lower-income voters.  The Bank of Thailand has boosted borrowing costs six times
this year to damp inflation, raising rates by the most in  Asia 
outside  India . Kittiratt’s remarks signal a conflict with the
central bank’s stance that may lead to a stalemate in policy
making, with one side’s attempt to lift growth undermined by
monetary tightening by an authority whose independence is
protected by law.  “There is much less policy coordination than we would like
to see,” Supavud Saicheua, managing director of Phatra
Securities Pcl in Bangkok, Thailand’s second-biggest brokerage
by market value, said in a telephone interview today. “The
government will find that its target of raising GDP growth will
prove too ambitious. The Bank of Thailand will counter every
stimulus with interest rate hikes, monetary tightening, so you
end up with GDP growing not much more than 4 percent.”  Baht Declines  The baht extended declines, falling by 0.3 percent to 30.17
a dollar from 30.13 after Kittiratt’s comments. Any diminished
likelihood of rate increases could affect the baht, which has
appreciated 2.3 percent in the past year, stoked by a widening
gap with developed nations from the U.S. to  Japan  that are
maintaining near-zero benchmark rates.  Thai law states that the central bank “must be able to
work independently,” according to the  bank’s website . Monetary
policy is decided by a seven-member committee comprising three
central bank officials and four external members who are either
academics or former senior government officials with economic
experience, according to the Bank of Thailand.  Increased Global Risks  Thailand’s central bank sees increased risks to global
growth, which may pose a larger threat to the domestic economy
than inflation, Praipol Koomsup, a member of the Bank of
Thailand’s monetary policy committee, told reporters today.
Global funds reduced holdings of regional assets today on
concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will stall a global economic
recovery.  “The global economy seems to be stalling and policy makers
in the world have more limited room to respond, so the risk to
growth may be higher than what we saw maybe three or four months
ago,” Bandid Nijathaworn, former deputy governor of the Bank of
Thailand, said by phone today.  Yingluck’s plans to insulate the country of 66 million
people from a global slowdown hinges on lifting the incomes of
poorer Thais who propelled her party to victory in a July
election. The policies may add inflation pressure, Bank of
Thailand Deputy Governor Atchana Waiquamdee said last week,
signaling there is room for  interest rates  to rise further.  “When I look at Thai inflation, it’s perhaps the lowest in
Asia,” said Kittiratt, who is also the commerce minister. “To
have higher interest rates during the cost-push inflation, it’s
even more cost-push, it causes more problems to inflation.”  ‘Misled’ on Rates  Consumer-price growth accelerated to 4.29 percent in
August, the fastest pace since 2008, as higher food prices
countered a drop in oil costs. The government on Aug. 27 ended
contributions by companies to the national oil fund to reduce
retail fuel prices.  “We need to look at inflation as part of the bigger
picture, which is net purchasing power,” Kittiratt said. “If
we try to analyze ourselves in the past, maybe we were misled to
understand we’d have to control inflation as an absolute number.
That’s why we want everything low.”  Higher interest rates may slow private investment and
economic growth, even as it helps depositors, the deputy prime
minister said. He said he will try to convince the central bank
“to look at inflation the way I look at it.”  Protecting Depositors  “If they want to protect the rights of depositors,
whenever you see gross inflation higher than the interest income
on savings, then these depositors are the ones losing out,” he
said. “If that’s the case, they seem to represent depositors
too much rather than being the so-called  monetary policy  for
all.”  Thailand’s economic growth slowed to 2.6 percent last
quarter from a year earlier. The state planning agency in August
cut its 2011 growth forecast to 3.5 percent to 4 percent, from
as much as 4.5 percent earlier.  “Any further hike in interest rates would pose a greater
risk to the fragile economic recovery as exports will slow amid
the global economic slowdown,” said Jarulag Ruangsuwan, senior
vice president at Asset Plus Fund Management Co., which manages
about $863 million of assets.  Export growth next year will probably surpass this year’s
target for a 15 percent expansion, Kittiratt said. Exports
account for about two-thirds of Thailand’s economy.  Yingluck, the sister of ousted leader  Thaksin Shinawatra ,
emerged on the political scene about two months before the July
vote. Parties linked to Thaksin have won the past five elections
on support from the northeast, the most populous region where
incomes are a third of those in Bangkok.  The government wants to boost incomes and expand  tax
revenue  to create a “more balanced economy” from an export-led
one into one that relies more on local consumption, Kittiratt
said.  “Once we try to turn this economy, then there might be
some groups who have to sacrifice in the short term,” he said.
“When it comes into a rebalanced situation, then everyone would
be happy because it’s not a zero-sum game.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  