-- 
Alabama’s Jefferson County Again Readies for Biggest Bankruptcy Decision

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k ,   K a t h l e e n   E d w a r d s   a n d   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 
2011-09-12T17:12:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/alabama-s-jefferson-county-poised-for-bankruptcy-decision-as-window-closes.html
A 34-day negotiation window between
Jefferson County,  Alabama , and creditors holding
$3.14 billion of its debt ends this week as evidence of
financial strain mounts.  The County Commission will meet Sept. 16 to consider filing
the largest municipal bankruptcy in U.S. history if an agreement
with creditors can’t be reached in the wake of a failed sewer-
bond refinancing. Leaders say a deal is closer than it was when
the five-member panel rejected a settlement Aug. 12 -- yet
obstacles remain.  “We are fairly close to an agreement in principle,” said
Jimmie Stephens, the commission’s Finance Committee chairman,
said in an interview in Birmingham last week. “The numbers
aren’t there yet, though.”  The sides are also at odds on the structure of a proposed
independent sewer authority, which would manage the system.  A proposal from creditors would transfer about $1.5 billion
in sewer assets to a new authority, Stephens said in a phone
interview yesterday. He said he supported creating that
authority but that the transfer is “not in the best interests
of the citizens of Jefferson County.”  At least three of the five commissioners oppose any deal
that includes the requirement, he said.  In interviews last week, commission President  David
Carrington  said he would consider extending negotiations.  Stephens said he wouldn’t.  “I will not delay,” Stephens said. “I will make a
motion, either for bankruptcy or settlement. I will not make a
motion to delay.”  Beyond the Bonds  Jefferson’s sewer bonds trade infrequently, given the
uncertainty surrounding the county’s future and a limited number
of investors who buy distressed municipal bonds.  On Aug. 17, $1.9 million of Jefferson County sewer auction-
rate securities traded at 65.5 cents on the dollar, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Three weeks earlier, one investor
bought the same debt at 62.5 cents while another paid 74.5 cents
on the dollar.  Jefferson County faces financial challenges beyond its
sewer deal. It lost about $70 million in annual revenue this
year when the Legislature failed to reinstate a wage tax that a
court struck down.  The commission was poised to file for Chapter 9 bankruptcy
protection Aug. 12 after rejecting an offer from creditors that
would have cut $1 billion from the county’s debt.  New York Tour  Stephens and Carrington headed to New York to meet with
creditors and insurers two weeks later, talking to  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , Citigroup Inc., Bank of America Corp., Assured
Guaranty Municipal Corp., Syncora Guarantee Inc. and FGIC Corp.
on Aug. 24 and 25, according to written statement Stephens gave
reporters.  Carrington, Stephens and  David Perry , chief of staff to
Alabama Governor Robert Bentley, described those meetings as
productive in telephone interviews last week.  Perry said the county and creditors were “very close on
the numbers” for sewer-rate increases that would support
refinanced bonds, although “the county’s not quite where they
want to be in terms of a new principal amount.”  The sides are about $140 million apart, commissioners have
said.  Perry said there were differences on the structure of the
proposed sewer board, which would be set up by the Legislature.  “All the bondholders care about is having a rate increase
schedule and independent sewer board structure that ensures that
the debt can be paid,” he said.  “The commissioners can say they want one thing, but that
doesn’t mean they’ll get it out of the Legislature,” Perry
said.  Jailhouse Suit  While negotiations with bondholders unfolded, the county’s
larger financial problems continued.  On Aug. 30, at budget hearings in Birmingham, the
commission announced 2012 revenue was $40 million short of
expenses. The spending plan must be approved by next month,
Stephens said.  The next day, the chief justice of the Alabama Supreme
Court, Chuck Malone, reversed an order that had cut the number
of jury trials held at county courthouses, which may increase
security costs next year.  A group of prisoners sued Jefferson County the same day in
U.S. District Court. The suit said jail overcrowding violated
their constitutional rights and that the county would blame its
finances:  “The plaintiffs aver that budget constraints are not an
excuse for ignoring clear and well known constitutional
mandates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Braun in  New York  at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net :
Margaret Newkirk in Birmingham, Alabama, at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  