-- 
Malaysia Airports, Top Glove, Utusan: Malaysia Equity Preview

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 
2011-09-12T00:02:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/malaysia-airports-top-glove-utusan-malaysia-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have unusual moves in  Malaysia  trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the previous close, unless
stated otherwise.  Malaysia’s  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI (FBMKLCI)  Index fell 0.1 percent
to 1,469.12 on Sept. 9.  Malaysia Airports Holdings Bhd. (MAHB)  : The airports
operator said it has been advised by the Ministry of Transport
that government-approved increases on the international
passenger service charge and aircraft landing and parking
charges be put on hold. The increases may be postponed until a
further review by the government, Malaysia Airports said in a
statement. The higher tariffs were to be in place by Sept. 15.
The stock fell 0.2 percent to 6.29 ringgit.        Tatt Giap Group Bhd. (TGGB)  : The stainless steel
products manufacturer agreed to buy industrial land and office
and factory buildings for 18.8 million ringgit ($6.2 million) as
part of its expansion plans, it said in a statement. The stock
last traded at 45 sen on Sept. 7.        TH Plantations Bhd. (THP)  : The palm oil producer is
seeking to achieve a return on equity of 19 percent this year,
according to a company statement. The return-on-equity goal is a
gauge of how effectively earnings are reinvested. The stock
dropped 0.5 percent to 2.06 ringgit.       Top Glove Corp. (TOPG MK): Kumpulan Wang Persaraan, a
Malaysian pension fund, said it became a substantial shareholder
in the world’s biggest rubber-glove maker after buying 483,400
shares, raising its stake to 5 percent, a stock filing showed.
Top Glove fell 2.3 percent to 4.59 ringgit.  Utusan Melayu (Malaysia) Bhd. (UTUS MK): The newspaper
publisher formed a joint venture with Juasa Holdings Sdn. for a
commercial property development in  Kuala Lumpur , according to an
exchange filing. Its shares last traded at 74 sen on Sept. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  