-- 
Apple, Google Targeted in Surge Before Patent Law Changes

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-09-12T22:37:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/apple-google-targeted-as-patent-cases-surge-before-law-changes.html
U.S. patent-infringement lawsuits
against multiple defendants surged as much as 10-fold in the
past week, targeting companies including PepsiCo Inc. and  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  ahead of a new law that would make such cases costlier.  At least 31 lawsuits with more than one company listed as a
defendant were started in the three days through Sept. 9, mostly
brought by so-called non-practicing entities, according to an
analysis by  Craig Smith , a patent lawyer at Lando & Anastasi LLP
in Cambridge,  Massachusetts . Of those cases, 16 target more than
10 companies in a single suit including Apple, PepsiCo,  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ,  Target Corp. (TGT)  and Samsung Electronics Co.  “Typically, you’d see three multidefendant cases in a day,
and only occasionally you’d see ones with more than 10
defendants,” Smith said in a telephone interview.  President  Barack Obama  is set to sign legislation passed by
the Senate on Sept. 8 that would mark the biggest change to U.S.
patent law since at least 1952. The America Invents Act includes
a requirement that defendants must have commonality in order to
be sued collectively, a move aimed at curbing lawsuits from NPEs
that have no operations other than acquiring patents and using
them to badger companies into paying royalties.  The provision is likely to force patent owners to file
individual lawsuits and manage the increased cost of scheduling
multiple trials or negotiations.  “It’s a lot more onerous for the trolls to deal with 30
lawsuits than one lawsuit,” said Brad Wright, a patent lawyer
with Banner & Witcoff Ltd. in  Washington , using a pejorative for
NPEs. “That’s why they’re rushing to sue right now.”  Popular Venue  Apple and Google have each been named in at least five of
the lawsuits from last week, while Samsung has been named in
four. Most of the multidefendant suits have been filed in the
Eastern District of Texas federal court, a popular venue because
it’s considered to be faster and friendlier to patent owners.  “As is becoming clear, the increase in patent litigation
in the technology industry is a growing drag on innovation,”
said Jim Prosser, a spokesman for  Mountain View , California-
based Google.  Closely held TQP Development LLC, owner of a patent for a
modem to send encrypted data over telephone lines, filed a suit
that named  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , PepsiCo and  General Electric Co. (GE) ,
and another against airlines and booking agencies including  US
Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  and  Priceline.com Inc. (PCLN)   EBay Inc. (EBAY) , Target and  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD)  were sued by
Plano, Texas-based Droplets Inc. over patents for remote
delivery of applications. Droplets lawyer Ted Stevenson, who
said his client has been in business for a decade, called the
idea of forcing patent owners to file multiple suits over a
single patent “a complete waste of judicial resources.”  “Why clog up the courts unnecessarily?” Stevenson said.
“Let the judge use his discretion to determine what’s best.”  Different Schedules  The provision regarding the number of defendants in a case
goes into effect as soon as the bill is signed into law and only
affects cases started after that, said Wright, who wrote a
report on the timing of different parts of the legislation.  For a patent owner, filing a single suit is more efficient
if it involves the same patents. A single judge is assigned and
handles all pre-trial proceedings such as the interpretation of
disputed terms within a patent.  A single lawsuit can also benefit defendants, said  Michael
C. Smith,  a lawyer at Siebman, Burg, Phillips & Smith LLP in
Marshall,  Texas . One judge dismissed 99 defendants from a
lawsuit after ruling on a single issue and courts have made
clear they won’t tolerate suits set up to demand settlement
payments just under the cost of litigation, Smith said.  “Instead of one case, you could have 40 to 50 cases spread
across the country and it could take 10 to 15 years to
complete,” he said. “That provision is going to affect cases
that legitimately are better handled as multidefendant cases.
It’s not giving the court the ability to determine when it’s
more efficient to handle the cases together.”  The provision is just one line of a bill that covers more
than 150 pages, revamps the patent application process, gives
the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office more authority over its
budget and creates a program to challenge newly issued patents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susan Decker  in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  