-- 
Argentine Corn ‘Terrifyingly’ Cheap Compared with Chicago on Export Quotas

-- B y   L a u r a   P r i c e   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 
2011-09-12T13:52:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/argentine-corn-terrifyingly-cheap-compared-with-chicago-on-export-quotas.html
Corn in  Argentina , the world’s
second-largest exporter, is trading at close to a 50 percent
discount relative to U.S. benchmark prices as farmers struggle
to sell stocks after meeting government export quotas.  Corn for delivery this month on Argentina’s Rosario Cereals
Exchange closed at $158 per ton, or about $3.95 per bushel, on
Sept. 9, after plunging 15 percent this year. That compares with
$7.36 a bushel for December corn on the  Chicago  Board of Trade,
where prices surged 17 percent this year after the hottest
summer since 1955 in the U.S., the world’s top corn shipper.  “The price differential is terrifyingly high because
Chicago is flying and Argentina hasn’t followed,” Ramiro Costa,
chief economist at the  Buenos Aires  Cereals Exchange, said in a
telephone interview from the city.  Prices are falling in Argentina because the “market is
closed,” after producers met the government’s quota of 12
million tons of corn for export this year, Costa said.  Argentina’s government demands that corn producers earmark
8 million tons of corn per year for domestic consumption. Export
quotas are announced over the course of the year. Argentina’s
output was about 21 million tons in the 2010-2011 season.  Midwestern Heat Wave  The corn crop in the U.S., the world’s largest grower and
exporter, will be 3.2 percent smaller than forecast a month ago
after unusually hot, dry weather in the Midwest, the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  said today in a report based on a
farmers’ survey.  Output will total 12.497 billion bushels (317.4 million
metric tons), less than the 12.914 billion forecast in August,
the USDA said. Production will increase from last year’s 12.447
billion bushels after farmers planted the second-most acres
since 1944.  Argentine corn farmers will harvest a record 28 million tons
in the season that started last month and ends in August 2012,
Agriculture Undersecretary Oscar Solis said in an Aug. 25
interview. Corn planting may be hindered by dry weather in the
main growing regions, the Buenos Aires Cereals Exchange said in
a Sept. 8 report.  In  Brazil , the world’s third-biggest exporter, farmers are
likely to harvest more this year than previously forecast
because of better weather in most producing regions, the
 Agriculture Ministry  said on Sept. 9.  Brazil’s corn harvest is estimated to total 57.5 million
metric tons, up from an Aug. 9 estimate of 56.3 million tons and
higher than the 56 million tons harvested last season, the
ministry said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Price in London at 
 lprice3@bloomberg.net ;
Rodrigo Orihuela in Buenos Aires at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  