-- 
Harvard’s Ryan Fitzpatrick Throws Four Touchdown Passes in Bills’ Win

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-09-12T04:27:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/harvard-s-fitzpatrick-throws-4-touchdown-passes-in-bills-win.html
Ryan Fitzpatrick, who played
college football at  Harvard University , won Buffalo’s starting
quarterback job last year. He cemented the position yesterday,
throwing four touchdown passes in the Bills’ season-opening 41-7
victory over  Kansas City .  Fitzpatrick matched his career-high for touchdown passes as
Buffalo won its first Week 1 road game since 1996.  The Bills have had six straight losing seasons and haven’t
made the National Football League playoffs in 12 years while
playing in the same division as the  New England Patriots ,  New
York Jets  and  Miami Dolphins .  “It’s encouraging. We knew what we had and it’s only one
game, but I think it surprised some people for us to score that
much,” Fitzpatrick, who had 208 passing yards, said at a news
conference. “It’s one game and we’re ready to move forward, but
we’re going to enjoy it for a day because I remember how hard it
was last year when we lost.”  The Bills went 4-12 last season, when Fitzpatrick took over
as the starter after two games, replacing Trent Edwards.  Fitzpatrick, 28, finished with 3,000 passing yards, 23
touchdowns and 15 interceptions. At the start of training camp
this year, Fitzpatrick joked that the last time he entered a
football season as a starter he had an internship at a hedge
fund.  That was before his senior season at Harvard in 2004, when
he led the Crimson to a 10-0 record. He was voted the  Ivy
League ’s Most Valuable Player that year after throwing for 1,986
yards with 13 touchdowns and six interceptions.  Seventh-Round Pick  Fitzpatrick, who graduated with an economics degree, was
selected by the  St. Louis Rams  in the seventh round of the 2005
draft, the  250th of 255 players  selected. He was the 13th
quarterback drafted, picked after players like Louisville’s
Stefan LeFors and Florida State’s Adrian McPherson.  In 2005, he became the fifth quarterback in NFL history to
throw for 300 yards in his debut, leading the Rams to an
overtime win at Houston with 310 yards and three touchdowns.  Even so, Fitzpatrick saw limited action with the Rams and
Cincinnati Bengals during his first four NFL seasons before
signing with the Bills as a free agent in 2009. He now has the
full-time job in Buffalo, where the Bills have gone through 10
starting quarterbacks since  Jim Kelly  retired after the 1996
campaign.  “I’m hoping this is the start of a good season for us,”
Fitzpatrick said.  The Bills return home to play the  Oakland Raiders  this week
before hosting the Patriots, who have won or finished tied atop
the AFC East for 10 straight years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 