-- 
Asia Commodity Day Ahead: Newmont Sees Gold at $2,300 in 2012

-- B y   D a n i e l   E n o c h
-- 
2011-09-20T21:54:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/asia-commodity-day-ahead-commodities-fall-to-two-week-low.html
The following are the top stories
on metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Gold Price May Reach $2,300 in 2012, Newmont’s O’Brien Says (1)  Gold may rise to $2,000 an ounce by the end of this year
and $2,300 an ounce by the close of 2012 because of investors
buying the metal as a haven amid turmoil in financial markets,
Newmont Mining Corp. Chief Executive Officer Richard O’Brien
said.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Chipotle’s Ells Says Thailand Rice Binge Inspired New Eatery (3)  Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc. Chief Executive Officer Steve
Ells said his new restaurant, ShopHouse Southeast Asian Kitchen,
was born during the two weeks he spent eating his way through
Thailand and  Singapore  last year.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Extends Drop to Lowest Since November on Economy Outlook  Copper fell, extending a slump to the lowest since
November, as the International Monetary Fund lowered its
forecast for the economy in the U.S., the second-biggest
consumer of the metal used in wires and pipes.  Copper Shortage Was 42,000 Tons in June, Study Group Says  Refined copper production lagged behind demand by 42,000
metric tons in June, the third consecutive monthly shortage, the
International Copper Study Group said.  MINING:  Wild West Comes to India Where Miners Defy Supreme Court Rule  Mining inspector Sashidhar Bagali and his three colleagues
crept along a ridge last month as they watched gangs of men
illegally excavating iron ore from a pit dug into the hard, red
soil of southern  India .  Rio Seeks Mongolian Power Solution Amid Accord Review Talks (1)  Rio Tinto Group, building a $6 billion mine in Mongolia
with Ivanhoe Mines Ltd., is seeking to resolve uncertainty over
power supplies for the project amid talks with the government on
the existing investment accord.  Molycorp Falls as JPMorgan Cuts Rating on Rare-Earth Decline (1)  Molycorp Inc., the owner of the world’s largest rare-earth
deposit outside China, fell the most since its 2010 initial
public offering after JPMorgan Chase & Co. lowered its rating,
citing declines in rare-earth prices.  Rusal Chairman Said to Consider Plan to Sell Back Norilsk Stake  United Co. Rusal’s billionaire Chairman  Viktor Vekselberg 
is considering a plan to sell Rusal’s 25 percent stake in OAO
GMK Norilsk Nickel back to the nickel producer, two people with
knowledge of the matter said.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold Rises on European Debt Woes, Bets for U.S. Stimulus by Fed  Gold futures rose as European debt concerns and prospects
for more steps by the  Federal Reserve  to bolster the  U.S.
economy  spurred demand for the precious metal as an alternative
investment.  Gold Price to Climb to $2,019 Next Year, LBMA Survey Shows (1)  Gold may climb to a record $2,019 an ounce by November
2012, according to the average response in a survey of attendees
at the London Bullion Market Association’s annual conference in
 Montreal .  Silver to Top $50 This Year on ‘Perfect Storm,’ Hanlon Says  Silver prices may top $50 an ounce this year as financial
turmoil has created the “perfect storm for the bullion
industry,” said Terry Hanlon, the president of Dillon Gage
Metals, one of the largest U.S. precious-metal dealers.  China  Gold Market Isn’t in ‘Bubble,’ ICBC’s Zhao Wenjian Says  China’s gold market isn’t in a “bubble,” Zhao Wenjian,
the deputy general manager of Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China Ltd.’s precious metals department, said at a conference in
Montreal today.  China Gold Market Is in ‘Incubation Period,’ Zhao Wenjian Says  China’s gold market is still in an “incubation period” as
more risk-management tools and increased investor education is
needed, Zhao Wenjian said at the Montreal conference.  India’s Gold Demand Not ‘Waning’ After Rally, Panjwani Says  Gold’s rally to a record this year hasn’t hampered gold
demand in India, the world’s top consumer, Rujan Panjwani, the
president of Edelweiss Financial Services Ltd., said at a
conference in Montreal today.  ‘Ill-Informed’ Commodity Rules May Add to Volatility, FOA Says  Policies aimed at limiting commodity-market positions and
increasing transparency may add to volatility if “ill-
informed” measures are put in place, according to the Futures
and Options Association.  AGRICULTURE:  Soybeans Rise as Price Drop Spurs Global Demand; Corn Falls  Soybeans rose, halting the longest slump in more than a
year, on speculation that demand will rebound for supplies from
the U.S., the world’s largest grower and exporter. Corn fell,
erasing an earlier gain.  Wheat Rises on Signs of Increasing Demand After Price Slump  Wheat futures rose on speculation that demand will rebound
for supplies from the U.S., the world’s largest exporter,
following a three-session price slump.  Hog Prices Rise as Demand for U.S. Pork Climbs; Cattle Gain  Hog futures had the biggest gain in almost two weeks on
signs of increasing demand for U.S. pork. Cattle also climbed.  Sugar Rises on Demand Speculation; Coffee Falls, Cocoa Advances  Sugar rose for a second day on speculation that demand may
pick up after a slump that saw prices drop 15 percent in four
weeks. Coffee declined, while cocoa advanced.  IMF Says Commodity Prices to Decrease on Slower Economic Growth  The  International Monetary Fund  forecast a decline in
commodity prices in the second half of this year and in 2012 on
bigger harvests of food crops and as slower economic growth
weighs on demand for base metals.  Kenya ’s Top Coffee Falls as Supply Increases, Quality Drops (1)  Kenya’s benchmark coffee grade fell 7.3 percent at an
auction today as bean supplies rose and as quality declined, the
Nairobi Coffee Exchange said.  Orange-Juice Futures Rise Most in Three Months; Cotton Declines  Orange-juice juice futures rose the most in three months on
storm concerns in  Florida , the world’s second-biggest producer.
Cotton declined.  U.S. Files Complaint at WTO Over Chinese Duties on Poultry (3)  The U.S. filed a complaint with the  World Trade
Organization  over what it called unfair trade practices by China
that have slashed U.S. poultry exports.  SHIPPING:  Ore-Ship Rents May Fail to Sustain Jump Amid Glut, Clarkson Says  Rents for capesize ships that haul  iron ore  and coal may
fail to sustain a rally because of a glut of vessels, according
to Clarkson Research Services Ltd.  ECONOMIES:  Loan Curbs Help Push Short-Term Yields to Record: China Credit  Companies in China face record interest rates on short-term
debt as curbs on lending force them to rely on commercial paper
to pay back loans.  IMF Cuts Global Growth Estimate;  Europe  May Worsen Outlook (1)  The International Monetary Fund cut its forecast for global
growth and predicted “severe” repercussions if Europe fails to
contain its debt crisis or U.S. policy makers deadlock over a
fiscal plan.  Builders Began Work on Fewer U.S. Homes Than Forecast (1)  Builders began work on fewer U.S. homes than forecast in
August, showing the industry remains flat on its back even as
 mortgage rates  fall to records.  OTHER MARKETS:  U.S. Stocks Fall as  Greece  Concerns Offset Fed Stimulus Bets  U.S. stocks fell, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
lower for a second day, as concern that Greece wasn’t closer to
receiving more financial aid offset speculation the Federal
Reserve will act to stimulate growth.  Swiss Franc Falls on Tighter Cap Speculation; Dollar Fluctuates  The Swiss franc fell against the euro by the most since the
 Swiss National Bank  put a ceiling on its currency’s strength and
dropped against the dollar amid speculation policy makers may
impose a tighter target.  Apple Stock Price Is Too High for Dow Industrials, Bespoke Says  Putting Apple Inc. in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
would mean the benchmark gauge would get 22 percent of its value
from the iPhone maker, too much influence even for the world’s
largest company, according to Bespoke Investment Group LLC.  Crude Rises First Time in Three Days on Fed Stimulus Optimism  Crude oil  increased for the first time in three days on
speculation the Federal Reserve will take steps to bolster the
U.S. economy, increasing fuel consumption.  Oil Stockpiles Fall to Eight-Month Low in Survey: Energy Markets  U.S. crude-oil supplies declined to an eight-month low as
refineries cut deliveries with the start of a maintenance cycle,
a Bloomberg News survey showed.  SPORTS:  Australia Coach Tim Nielsen Steps Down After Win Over  Sri Lanka   Australia cricket coach Tim Nielsen stepped down from the
post after his nation completed a 1-0 series win over Sri Lanka
today.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  