-- 
Assad Adviser Shaaban Says Western Actions Fuel Syria Unrest

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-09-12T11:43:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/assad-adviser-shaaban-says-western-actions-fuel-syria-unrest-1-.html
Western sanctions against  Syria  are
stoking violence in the Middle Eastern country, said Bouthaina Shaaban, President Bashar al-Assad’s political and media
adviser.  “The West should choose the path of peace,”  Shaaban told
reporters in Moscow today. “We are making changes aimed at
peace, security and stability. By not supporting this and
imposing sanctions, directly or indirectly they are supporting
violence.”  U.S. and European leaders have stepped up sanctions against
Assad and called on him to cede power. The measures haven’t
halted the suppression of what Syria’s government calls foreign-
backed terrorism. The protests spread after popular uprisings
toppled leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt .  Shaaban, one of three Syrian officials who had sanctions
imposed on them by the U.S. Treasury Department last month,
condemned “foreign interference” in Syria and said the
government is committed to peaceful political reform.  ‘Balanced Stance’  “We greatly value  Russia ’s balanced stance,” she said.
“History will show that Russia was right.”  Russia, which has maintained close ties with Syria since
the Soviet era, last month rejected demands from the U.S. and
the European Union for Assad to step down because of his
regime’s crackdown on protests that began five months ago.
Russia, with power to veto United Nations Security Council
resolutions, also opposes an initiative by the U.S., Britain and
 France , to impose United Nations sanctions on Syria.  President  Dmitry Medvedev  said he is seeking a “tough but
balanced” United Nations resolution on Syria that targets both
sides of the conflict.  “It should be tough but should not imply automatic
sanctions,” Medvedev said during a joint briefing with U.K.
Prime Minister  David Cameron  in Moscow today. “There is no need
for extra pressure.”  The Syrian government is ready for a national dialog with
peaceful opposition even as it refuses to start talks with
“armed” protesters, Shaaban said, adding that parliamentary
elections may be held by year-end or in February.  Any party has the right to participate in the political
process, she said. Assad issued a decree last month approving
laws his government endorsed in July that will establish a
commission to regulate parliamentary elections and allow new
political parties to exist alongside his ruling Baath Party,
which has been in power since 1963.  More than 3,100 civilians have been killed in Syria since
protests began in March, according to Mahmoud Merhi, head of the
Arab Organization for Human Rights, and Ammar Qurabi of the
National Organization for Human Rights in Syria. About 30,000
people have been detained and 13,000 of them are still being
held, the activists estimate.  A total of 1,400 people have been killed so far, according
to the government, including 700 security forces, Shaaban said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  