-- 
AT&T Antitrust Judge’s Earlier Rulings May Play Role in T-Mobile Decision

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-09-12T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/at-t-judge-s-earlier-rulings-may-play-role-in-t-mobile-decision.html
The first time U.S. District Judge
Ellen Segal Huvelle in  Washington  heard an antitrust challenge
to an AT&T Inc. deal, she said her hands were tied in assessing
a smaller competitor’s objection to the proposed acquisition.  Mid-Tex Cellular Ltd., a rural cellular company based in
DeLeon,  Texas , argued that the $4.5 billion takeover of Dobson
Communications Corp. threatened its business and that the
Justice Department wasn’t treating the “entire market”
consistently when it agreed to settle the case.  In a ruling approving the deal, Huvelle said that while
Mid-Tex may be correct, under the law the government had “broad
discretion” to settle the case with Dallas-based AT&T “within
the reaches” of the public interest.  After the purchase, Mid-Tex lost the roaming revenue it
received from its former partner, AT&T, and could no longer
afford to provide services in its rural territory, said Carri
Bennet, a Bethesda, Maryland telecommunications lawyer who
represented Mid-Tex. The company was sold in 2009.  “Exactly what they warned about happened,” she said.
“Mid-Tex suffered a severe demise because of AT&T.”  Huvelle won’t have the same constraints when she decides
whether to block AT&T’s proposed takeover of T-Mobile USA Inc.,
said Allen Grunes, an antitrust lawyer at Brownstein Hyatt
Farber Schreck LLP in Washington, because this time, there isn’t
an agreement between the parties.  In the current case, where the  Justice Department  is suing
to stop the merger, Huvelle must independently assess the
government’s claim that the combination of the country’s second-
and fourth-largest wireless carriers would violate antitrust law
and “substantially lessen” competition.  Closer Look  Her analysis may include a closer look at what smaller
carriers are saying, said Grunes, a former trial attorney in the
Justice Department’s antitrust division.  “You’ve got people here in a similar position and you know
what they say,” he said. “The past is prologue.”  Huvelle, 63, has handled about 10 antitrust matters since
joining the federal bench in 1999, according to court filings.
Most of those involved reviewing consent decrees like the
earlier AT&T acquisition of Dobson.  In the one such case that went to trial -- the Justice
Department’s bid to halt SunGard Data Systems Inc.’s
$825 million acquisition of Comdisco Inc.’s computer disaster-
recovery business -- Huvelle ruled against the government. That
led some lawyers to conclude she’ll do the same with AT&T.  ‘Good Selection’  “This is not a good selection for the antitrust
division,” said  David Balto , a Washington antitrust lawyer who
represented SunGard, of Huvelle’s assignment to the case.  Huvelle was critical of the evidence the government used in
the SunGard case, specifically its sampling of customers who
would be negatively affected by the deal, he said.  Regarding AT&T’s proposed deal to buy T-Mobile, a unit of
 Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , Balto said the government will have to show
why cellular services offered by companies such as Boost Mobile
LLC and Cricket Wireless aren’t adequate alternatives for
customers who can’t afford the prices of the three big telecom
companies that would be left if AT&T absorbed T-Mobile.  “It’s easy for the  Department of Justice  to speak in
generalities about vulnerable customers,” Balto said. “But
generalities will not fly with her.”  Huvelle received a bachelor’s degree in political science
from  Wellesley College  in 1970 and a master’s degree in city
planning from  Yale University ’s school of architecture in 1972.
She received her law degree from  Boston College  in 1975.  Legal Career  Huvelle began her legal career in 1977 as a litigator at
Williams & Connolly LLP in Washington. There, she handled civil
and criminal cases in federal and state courts, taking part in
seven jury trials during 13 years with the firm.  In a criminal tax case, she defended boxing promoter Don King, who was acquitted following a jury trial in 1985. She
represented General Electric Co. in two cases where one of its
units was accused of civil rights violations while running a
youth detention centers in  Rhode Island . The cases settled after
Huvelle left the firm.  Huvelle was appointed to the local  District of Columbia 
Superior Court by U.S. President  George H.W. Bush , a Republican.
On that court, she handled a variety of civil, criminal and
family law cases. In 1999, President  Bill Clinton , a Democrat,
selected her for the U.S. District Court for the District of
Columbia.  More than two decades after leaving Williams & Connolly,
Huvelle still removes herself from any cases involving the  law
firm , said Robert Barnett, a senior partner there. She does the
same with Covington & Burling, the law firm where her husband
Jeffrey is partner, according to documents filed with the  U.S.
Senate .  Quickly Through  Huvelle is known for moving quickly through the cases
assigned to her court. She completes almost all her civil
actions within three years and has no motions pending before her
for more than six months, according to records filed with the
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts.  Just six days after the AT&T-T-Mobile lawsuit was filed in
her court, Huvelle set a hearing for Sept. 21 and told the
parties to be prepared to discuss settlement options.  “She is an efficient judicial machine,” said Stephen Axinn of Axinn Veltrop Harkrider LLP, who also represented
SunGard in the 2001 antitrust case. Axinn has represented
Bloomberg LP.  The SunGard case was tried and decided in less than a
month, in part because there was a bankruptcy looming in the
background of the merger. The AT&T acquisition of T-Mobile is
set to close by March 20, 2012, and AT&T has said it will ask
Huvelle for an expedited handling of the case.  “She’ll make everybody work nights and weekends to get it
done quickly, then she’ll rule quickly because that’s her
style,” Axinn said.  The case is U.S. v.  AT&T Inc. (T) , 11-01560, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in U.S. District Court for the District of
Columbia at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  