-- 
Mauritius Keeps Benchmark Rate Unchanged at 5.5% as Inflation Rate Falls

-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 
2011-09-12T15:05:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/mauritius-keeps-benchmark-rate-unchanged-at-5-5-as-inflation-rate-falls.html
Mauritius ’s central bank left its
benchmark interest rate unchanged for the first time this year
as a stronger currency helped curb inflation.  The key rate was kept at 5.5 percent, the Port Louis-based
Bank of Mauritius said in a statement on its  website  today,
following a meeting of its Monetary Policy Committee. The bank
raised the rate at the past two meetings.  Inflation eased to a six-month low of 6.5 percent in August
while a debt crisis in  Europe  threatens to cut demand for
exports, undermining growth in the Indian Ocean island nation.
The rupee has gained 9 percent against the dollar this year, the
third-best performing currency in  Africa , helping to reduce
import costs.  “While the headwinds from the euro-area debt crisis and
the worsening growth prospects in the country’s main trading
partners have increased uncertainty, the MPC does not fully
share the mood of pessimism that seems to prevail among certain
economic operators,” the central bank said. “Given the high
level of uncertainty, members have decided to put on hold the
process of normalizing the key repo rate, started in March.”  Twenty-three of 30 analysts surveyed by PluriConseil Ltd.,
an economic research company, expected the rate to stay
unchanged, l’Express newspaper said on Aug. 17.  The central bank reduced its forecast for economic growth
this year to 4.4 percent from an estimate of 4.6 percent at the
June policy meeting, it said. Inflation will probably slow to
4.3 percent in June next year, the bank said.  “Given the uncertainty worldwide, Mauritius could not
afford to further increase the  interest rate ,” Imrith Ramtohul,
senior investment manager at Mauritius Union Assurance, said in
e-mailed comments before the decision. “Inflation is currently
rising at a much slower pace. A rise could have caused the rupee
to appreciate, potentially having a negative impact on exports
and economic growth.”  The rupee gained 0.5 percent to 28.1025 by 6:30 p.m. in
 Port Louis . Europe bought 65 percent of the country’s
manufactured goods in the six months through June, according to
the statistics office, while the region accounts for about two-
thirds of tourists to Mauritius.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Port Louis at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  