-- 
Australia’s Retailers Facing a ‘Bad to Worse’ Outlook, Access Report Says

-- B y   B r e n d a n   M u r r a y
-- 
2011-09-12T14:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/australia-s-retailers-facing-a-bad-to-worse-outlook-access-report-says.html
Australia ’s retail sales growth may
struggle to rebound from a two-decade low as the nation’s stock
market slumps and consumer confidence weakens, curtailing
household spending, according to a Deloitte Access Economics
report.  Sales volumes are projected to increase 1.5 percent in the
12 months through June 30, compared with 1.3 percent growth in
the 2010-11 fiscal year that was the weakest in 20 years and a
2.6 percent advance a year earlier, the Canberra-based research
company said today.  “There are no immediate triggers for a turnaround either,
with the international financial market turmoil which occurred
in August likely to have kept sales in a weak position during
the month of August and into September,” the report stated.
“Retailers now face the prospect of going from bad to worse.”  David Jones Ltd. (DJS)  and Myer Holdings Ltd., the country’s two
largest department store chains, are among retailers struggling
to attract consumers who are saving more and paying the
developed world’s highest borrowing costs. Also weighing on
sentiment are five straight months of declines in Australia’s
benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index, the longest losing streak since the
September 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. started
a global financial crisis.  One scenario facing the nation’s stores would be a further
deterioration in global markets that leads the  Reserve Bank  of
Australia to lower  interest rates  and the government to inject
economic stimulus. That would be a temporary boost “ but will
leave another long hangover,” according to the report.  The more likely outcome is a global economy that “muddles
through the next few months, producing a slow but steady return
of  consumer confidence ,” it said.  Retail prices may gain 1.9 percent this fiscal year,
compared with a rise of 1.2 percent last year, the report said.  Monthly employment growth in Australia averaged 2,800
through August this year, less than a tenth of the average of
30,500 jobs added per month in the first eight months of 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Murray in Sydney at 
 brmurray@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net . 