-- 
Maxim Healthcare Agrees to a $150 Million Settlement of U.S. Fraud Probe

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-09-12T20:55:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/maxim-healthcare-is-said-to-pay-150-million-to-settle-fraud-probe-by-u-s-.html
Maxim Healthcare Services Inc.,
which provides in-home health and nursing services, will pay
$150 million to resolve criminal and civil probes of
fraudulently overbilling federal and state governments.  The U.S.  Justice Department  filed a criminal conspiracy
charge in federal court in  New Jersey  against Maxim, and agreed
to defer prosecution for two years. Nine people, including three
regional account managers, have pleaded guilty since 2009 in
federal court in Trenton, New Jersey.  “Fraudulent billing for services not rendered uses
patients as pawns in a game of corporate greed that puts cash
over care and wastes precious taxpayer dollars,” said Tony
West, assistant attorney general of the Justice Department’s
civil division at a news conference in Newark, New Jersey.  Maxim, based in Columbia,  Maryland , will pay a $20 million
criminal fine and $130 million to resolve civil allegations
under the U.S. False Claims Act and claims by 43 U.S. states.
The civil recovery is the largest ever in a home health care
fraud, West said. The  False Claims Act  allows private citizens
to sue on behalf of the government and share in any recovery.  “We take full responsibility for these events set forth in
the deferred prosecution agreement and we are pleased to reach a
settlement that will allow us to move forward with the important
work of caring for our patients and clients,” said Brad
Bennett, chief executive officer of Maxim. Bennett was appointed
in October 2009.  ‘Emphasized Sales Goals’  As part of its deferred-prosecution agreement, Maxim
admitted that between 2003 and 2009, it conspired to defraud
government health programs of $61 million.  “Certain aspects of Maxim’s operations emphasized sales
goals at the expense of clinical and compliance
responsibilities, as reflected in certain aspects of its
culture, training, incentive compensation, and allocation of
personnel resources,” Maxim admitted in court documents.  The criminal investigation is ongoing and “it’s certainly
a possibility” that others will be charged, J. Gilmore
Childers, the First Assistant U.S. Attorney in New Jersey, said
at the news conference. He said the regional account managers
oversaw hundreds of employees and millions of dollars in
revenue.  Sweeping Changes  The company, which has 88,000 employees, has made sweeping
changes to its top management since May 2009 and has cooperated
with the probe, said Childers. Maxim had revenue last year of
more than $1 billion, said Executive Assistant U.S. Attorney
Michael Martinez.  Maxim has signed a corporate integrity agreement and will
be overseen by a corporate monitor.  “Companies like Maxim, that provide health care services
to Medicaid patients, are expected to take necessary steps to
prevent fraud and abuse by instituting strong compliance
programs and maintaining effective internal controls,” New
Jersey Attorney General Paula Dow said in a statement. Under the
agreement, New Jersey will collect about $2.7 million.  The probe began after a  whistleblower  lawsuit filed by New
Jersey resident Richard W. West, who will collect a $15.4
million award. West, a 63-year-old resident of Tuckerton, New
Jersey, was diagnosed with muscular dystrophy in 1981. Over 15
months in 2003 and 2004, Maxim claimed more than 700 hours of
services not provided, according to Dow.  West said in an interview that he hired a lawyer from
Baltimore, Robin Page West of Cohan, West & Karpook, to help
him. Neither Richard West, Robin West or  Tony West  of the
Justice Department are related.  ‘Finally Over’  “I am pleased that it’s finally over,” Richard West said.
“I tried to rectify this through a county social worker. She
had no power. I tried to bring it to the state Medicaid waiver
office. They did nothing. I called the Medicaid hotline for
fraud and they said we’ll look into it. No one ever did
anything. That’s why I had to go out of state to find my
lawyer.”  Dow issued a news release detailing the settlement before
federal officials outlined it at a press conference. In
response, Childers said in a statement: “The state played a
limited administrative role in this case. It is troubling and
disappointing that they would take credit for years of tireless
work done by federal agents and prosecutors, particularly
concerning an issue so important to the people of New Jersey.”  Nine Pleaded  The nine who pleaded guilty included three who worked as
regional accounts manager: Gregory Munzel, 35, of Charleston,
 South Carolina ; Bryan Lee Shipman, 38, of  Athens ,  Georgia ; and
Matthew Skaggs, 39, who worked in  Texas , according to the
Justice Department and court records.  Others who pleaded guilty are Donna Ocansey, 49, of
Medford, New Jersey, a director of clinical services; Marion
Morton, 45, of North Charleston, South Carolina, a home health
aide; Andrew Sabbaghzadeh, 29, of Clay,  New York , an account
manager; Jason Bouche, 27, of  Paradise Valley ,  Arizona , a
recruiter; and Mary Shelly Janvier-Pierre, 42, of Lake Worth,
 Florida , a licensed practical nurse, according to the Justice
Department and court records.  The mother of a former pediatric patient, Sandy Cave, 39,
of  West Palm Beach , Florida, also pleaded guilty, according to
the Justice Department and court records. Skaggs and Morton
already have been sentenced to probationary terms.  The case is  United States  v. Maxim Healthcare Services,
11-mj-6107, U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey
( Newark ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 