-- 
BP-Led Group May Decide on Shah Deniz Field Investment This Year

-- B y   Z u l f u g a r   A g a y e v
-- 
2011-09-12T16:02:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/azerbaijan-expects-shah-deniz-2-investment-decision-by-year-end.html
 BP Plc-led investors developing
the Shah Deniz field in the Caspian Sea plan to make an
 investment decision  this year as the European Union-backed
Nabucco pipeline venture seeks to lock in gas purchases.  The group will probably agree on the second phase of Shah
Deniz by year-end, said Vaqif Aliyev, a vice president at the
State Oil Co. of  Azerbaijan , or Socar, a partner in the project.  Talks with Turkey over the transit of Azeri gas through its
territory, which have held up an agreement on sales to the EU,
may be completed by the end of this month, Aliyev told reporters
today in the capital, Baku.  The EU has agreed to help fund the OMV AG-led Nabucco
pipeline, which plans to ship Caspian gas through  Turkey  to
 Austria , lessening the continent’s dependence on Russian fuel
supplies. The Trans Adriatic Pipeline project and the planned
Interconnector Italy-Turkey-Greece are also seeking fuel, while
OAO Gazprom,  Russia ’s export monopoly, has said it is willing to
buy all Azeri gas.  The EU’s executive arm won a political mandate to negotiate
with Azerbaijan and  Turkmenistan  to secure natural-gas supplies
for Nabucco, the EU said today in a statement.  The three pipeline projects have submitted proposed terms,
Aliyev said. Details are still lacking on investment periods,
the timing of construction, capacity, transit fees and tariffs,
he said.  Azerbaijan will consider the capacity of the planned links
to carry fuel from newly discovered and prospective resources
such as the Total SA-led Absheron field and Socar’s Umid project
as it chooses among pipeline ventures vying to carry Shah Deniz-
2 gas to  Europe , Aliyev said.  Operated by Total  Absheron, where Paris-based Total is operator and holds a
40 percent stake, may contain 350 billion cubic meters of gas,
Xosbaxt Yusifzada, first vice president at Socar, said today.
The first gas may be pumped in 2021 or 2022, he said. Socar also
owns 40 percent of the project, and  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA 20 percent.  The find at Absheron, a prospect previously abandoned by a
Chevron Corp-led group that included Total, marks a second
success since Socar announced a gas find at the Umid structure
in November. With the discovery of Absheron, Azerbaijan’s proven
reserves of natural gas grew to 2.5 trillion cubic meters,
Yusifzada said.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zulfugar Agayev in Baku via the Moscow newsroom at  zagayev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Torrey Clark at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net  