-- 
Bachmann Following Obama Lead in Wooing Small Donors for 2012

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-09-12T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/bachmann-following-obama-lead-in-wooing-small-donors-to-show-2012-momentum.html
Each week,  Michele Bachmann ’s
presidential primary campaign sends an e-mail to grassroots
supporters summarizing the latest news about her campaign, and
asking for a few more dollars.  “I hope that you will consider making a contribution of
$25, $50, $100, or any amount up to the legal limit to help us
spread our message of growth and prosperity in this busy time,”
Bachmann said in a recent one.  The Minnesota congresswoman began raising money for a
presidential bid in mid-June, two weeks before the second-
quarter fundraising reporting deadline of June 30. In that
period, she raised as much money from donors who gave less than
$200 -- a total of $1.1 million -- as primary rival Mitt Romney,
the former Massachusetts Governor, did in more than two months.  Bachmann’s reliance on small donors has been a hallmark of
her House career, and it’s an asset that can provide dividends
in a Republican presidential primary where her strongest
competitors -- Texas Governor  Rick Perry  and Romney -- are vying
for a smaller pool of big donors to generate cash for their
campaigns.  “It’s like having money in the bank to have a list of
names of people you can go back to” because they haven’t given
the maximum $2,500 to her campaign, said Michael Malbin,
executive director of the Washington-based  Campaign Finance
Institute , a nonpartisan group that studies political giving.  Perry Rise  Bachmann is trying to woo big donors, too. That job got
harder after Perry shot to the top of public opinion polls and
she was overshadowed by Romney and Perry in the Sept. 7 primary
debate at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library in Simi Valley,
 California . Tonight, the Republican candidates will participate
in a debate sponsored by Tea Party activists in  Florida , and
Bachmann will be under pressure to recapture some of the
spotlight or risk losing momentum.  Her small donors could provide a boost later this month
when the candidates are expected to announce their third quarter
fundraising figures. The full reports will be made public by the
 Federal Election Commission  in October.  It’s a tactic President  Barack Obama  used in 2007 to bring
momentum to his campaign and keep pace with the more experienced
fundraising team recruited by  Hillary Clinton  during the
Democratic primary. Obama raised half of his primary money in
amounts of $200 or less, while chief rival Clinton raised one-
third from small check writers.  Top Fundraiser  The winner of the Iowa Straw Poll, Bachmann is competing
against Romney’s money-raising machine, which topped the primary
field in the second quarter by reporting $18.3 million in
donations. Three-fourths of his money came from donors giving
the maximum, according to an analysis by the Campaign Finance
Institute. Perry entered the race last month and hasn’t filed a
disclosure report yet.  “Bachmann has really passionate supporters at the
grassroots level,” said former  Federal Election Commission 
Chairman Michael Toner, who advised Tim Pawlenty’s presidential
campaign before the former Minnesota governor withdrew.
“Romney’s challenges are the flip side of Bachmann’s. His
challenge is gathering support among conservative activists and
getting the $25 contributions.”  Bachmann is using social media, the Internet and e-mail to
try to woo small contributors and more than a half-million
people have signed up to follow her on the social media sites
Facebook and Twitter.  She has a long list of grassroots backers from previous
campaigns; she raised $7.5 million in small donations for her
2010 re-election. Overall, she took in $13.6 million for her re-
election campaign last year, more than any other House
candidate, according to the  Center for Responsive Politics ,
another Washington-based research group that tracks campaign
donations.  Drudge Report  Bachmann also is advertising on conservative websites like
the Drudge Report and Newsmax to build her donor base.  “That’s where you get a lot of those small
contributions,” said Alice Stewart, a campaign spokeswoman.
“Small contributions have been the lifeblood of Michele
Bachmann’s campaign. Another benefit of having small donors is
the fact that many small donors mean many votes. We just as soon
have the quantity of contributions as compared with high
dollars.”  While 74 percent of Romney’s money came in checks for the
maximum $2,500 donation, he is also targeting smaller
contributors, according to his spokeswoman, Andrea Saul. One
such effort: A psychedelic anti-Obama “Magical Misery Tour” T-
shirt for a $30 donation. Visitors to his  campaign website  were
invited to make their $30 contribution a recurring one. The T-
shirt campaign got 60,000 visits in six hours, Saul said.  ’Very Proud’  “We are very proud of all of the support we’ve received
from across the nation for Governor Romney’s message of creating
jobs and growing the economy,” Saul said.  The importance of small donors will be magnified if no
front runner emerges from the early caucuses and primaries,
Malbin said.  “When you have a small-donor network that is part of an
integral campaign strategy, it becomes the basis for organizing
get-out-the vote efforts,” Malbin said. “That was the basis
for Obama’s victory over Clinton, the ability to get out
volunteers, especially in caucus states.”  Obama remains the leader in small donor donations, and he
is rebuilding his network for the re-election campaign.  This year, Obama began his 2012 fundraising effort with an
e-mail list of more than 13 million names from the 2008
campaign, and took in 53 percent of his $41.9 million in primary
contributions from donors giving $200 or less, according to the
Campaign Finance Institute. The figures include money
transferred to his campaign from fundraisers conducted jointly
with the  Democratic National Committee .  Obama’s Small Donors  The $22.1 million Obama received in small donations
surpassed the amount any Republican candidate raised in total
during the second quarter.  While Obama listed 244 people who raised at least $50,000
through June 30, he also is developing a network of mini-
bundlers, people who solicit friends and family to give to the
campaign. They have set up personal fundraising pages on the
campaign’s  website .  Thousands of such pages contain stories of why the person
supports Obama and his or her fundraising goal. Supporters can
use e-mail or social media to get others to click on their pages
to give as little as $1 to the president’s re-election.  “It’s making it very easy for people to communicate with
friends and neighbors,” said Katie Hogan, an Obama campaign
spokeswoman.  The campaign also solicits small contributions through
contests such as offering a chance to attend Obama’s 50th
birthday party in  Chicago  to anyone who recruited 50 donors or
50 supporters, or dinner with the president and Vice President
 Joe Biden  to someone who donated at least $10.  “We measure our success not in dollars but in people,”
Obama said in one fundraising e-mail, “in the number of
everyday Americans who’ve chosen to give whatever they can
afford because they know we’ve got more work to do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 