-- 
Baht Falls as Europe Woes Cut Demand for Emerging-Market Assets

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-09-12T01:48:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/baht-falls-as-europe-woes-cut-demand-for-emerging-market-assets.html
Thailand ’s baht dropped to a two-
month low and the  government bonds  slid as speculation  Germany 
is preparing for a Greek default reduced demand for higher-
yielding emerging-market assets.  The currency weakened for a fifth day as the MSCI Asia-
Pacific Index of shares declined. International investors sold
$118 million more Thai equities than they bought last week,
according to exchange data.  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s
government is preparing plans to shore up German banks in the
event that  Greece  fails to meet the terms of its aid package and
defaults, three coalition officials said.  “Risk appetite is declining, leading to sell-offs of Asian
currencies through stocks and other assets,” said Tohru
Nishihama, an economist at Dai-ichi Life Research Institute Inc.
in  Tokyo . “Growing concern over the European debt crisis means
more global uncertainties. Sentiment is quite weak at this
moment.”  The baht declined 0.1 percent to 30.10 per dollar as of
8:22 a.m. in Bangkok and touched 30.20 earlier, the weakest
level since July 14, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The currency may trade mostly in a range of 29.80 and 30.20 this
week, Nishihama said.  Germany’s emergency plan involves measures to help banks
and insurers that face a possible 50 percent loss on their Greek
bonds if the next tranche of Greece’s bailout is withheld, said
the people, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
deliberations are being held in private.  The yield on Thailand’s 5.25 percent debt due May 2014
added two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.43
percent.  The one-year onshore interest-rate swap, the fixed cost
needed to receive a floating payment, slid three basis points to
3.14 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  