-- 
Baltic Exchange Won’t Take Action Against China Cosco as Payments Resume

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 
2011-09-12T17:03:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/baltic-exchange-won-t-take-action-against-china-cosco-as-payments-resume.html
The  Baltic Exchange , the world’s
biggest shipping bourse, is taking no action against China Cosco
Holdings Co. after the shipowner resumed charter payments for
vessels it hired.  An exchange committee held a “round-table discussion” on
Sept. 7 at a regularly scheduled meeting regarding concerns
raised by “key shipowners” about Cosco, Jeremy Penn, the
bourse’s chief executive officer, said by phone today. Cosco,
the Chinese government-controlled owner of the world’s third-
largest dry-bulk fleet, had three vessels arrested in July and
August as owners sought late charter payments, court documents
showed.  “It appeared that Cosco was making the appropriate
payments and there was no need to take further action at the
moment,” Penn said. The exchange has the power to suspend
companies’ membership, depriving them of its freight-rate
assessments.  Cosco said Aug. 26 it reached agreements covering 18
different ships, without providing further details. DryShips
Inc. and Jinhui Shipping & Transportation Ltd. were among owners
that said the Tianjin, China-based company repaid money owed.  The dry-bulk unit of Cosco is one of the exchange’s 593
global members, according to a list from the bourse.  The last company to be suspended by the exchange was Perth-
based Fortescue Metals Group in 2009.  Cosco was operating 201 chartered commodity ships as of
June 30, according to a first-half earnings statement released
Aug. 25. That’s 21 fewer than at the end of last year. The
shipping line was also operating 234 self-owned dry-bulk vessels
at the end of June, along with 153 container vessels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  