-- 
Bank of New York Mellon Is Said to Pull Sale of $17 Billion Alcentra Unit

-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 
2011-09-12T15:47:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/bank-of-new-york-is-said-to-pull-sale-of-17-billion-asset-alcentra-unit.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) 
pulled the sale of its Alcentra unit, which manages $17 billion
of loans and high-yield bonds, according to three people with
knowledge of the plan.  The world’s biggest custody bank hired  Credit Suisse Group
AG (CS)  to run the sale of the group that manages the majority of its
assets in collateralized loan obligations in the U.S. and
Europe, said the people, who declined to be identified because
the terms are private.  More than $54 billion worth of CLO contracts have been sold
in the U.S. since the beginning of 2010 as bigger managers buy
up smaller rivals while issuance of the securities remains low,
according to data compiled by Barclays Plc. Bank of  New York 
announced Aug. 31 that its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Robert P. Kelly had stepped down due to “differences in
approach to managing the company,” according to a news release.  “I expect the industry consolidation to continue for at
least another year, with the smaller managers either just
running off after the end of the reinvestment period or being
absorbed by the larger players,” Justin Pauley, a CLO analyst
at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  Stamford ,  Connecticut ,
said today in a telephone interview.  CLO Reinvestment Period  The “vast majority” of European CLOs will wind down in
the next three years, according to a report published last month
by  Standard & Poor’s . Funds worth 69 billion euros ($94 billion)
of assets will end their reinvestment period and wind down by
2015.  David Forbes-Nixon, Alcentra chairman, and Jack Grone, a
Credit Suisse spokesman, declined to comment. Mike Dunn, a Bank
of New York spokesman, said the lender doesn’t comment on rumors
or speculation.  CLOs are a type of collateralized debt obligation that pool
high-yield, high-risk loans and slice them into securities of
varying risk and return.  Alcentra, which became a subsidiary of Bank of New York in
2006, is 95.5 percent owned by the bank and 4.5 percent by
employees, according to its  website .  Kelly, 57, who led Bank of New York since 2007, left by
“mutual agreement” with the board, the lender said in the
statement. His successor is Gerald L. Hassell, 59, who has been
president of the New York-based lender since 1998.  Highland European Sale  Highland Capital Management LP, the Dallas-based debt
manager with about $23 billion in assets, put its business that
manages CLOs in  Europe  back up for sale after taking it off the
block earlier this year. Rothschild, the family-owned financial
adviser, agreed last month to take over Elgin Capital LLP and
Ares Management LLC, a Los Angeles-based investment firm, agreed
to buy Indicus Advisors.  Citi Capital Advisors acquired four CLOs worth $2 billion
from DiMaio Ahmad Capital LLC in August. Apollo Global
Management LLC in July said it agreed to acquire Gulf Stream
Asset Management, which manages 10 CLOs, according to a news
release.  There have been more than $7 billion of CLOs backed by
widely syndicated loans issued in the U.S. this year, according
to Bloomberg data. There was only one fund-managed CLO in Europe
this year for 858 million euros, the data show.  Spreads on AAA slices of CLO debt in the U.S. as of Aug. 11
was 200 basis points more than the London interbank offered
rate, according to Morgan Stanley data. In Europe the spread for
the same rated debt was 275 basis points more than the
benchmark.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristen Haunss in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  