-- 
Banpu Offer to Acquire Australia’s Hunnu Coal for About A$477 Million

-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 
2011-09-12T06:30:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/banpu-offer-to-acquire-australia-s-hunnu-coal-for-about-a-477-million.html
Banpu Plc,  Thailand ’s biggest coal
producer, agreed to buy the shares it doesn’t already own in
 Hunnu Coal Ltd. (HUN) , valuing the Australian explorer seeking to
develop mines in  Mongolia  at A$477 million ($493 million).  Banpu, which owns about 12 percent of Hunnu Coal, is
offering A$1.80 cash for each share, the Bangkok-based company
said today in a statement. That’s 30 percent more than the Sept.
8 close of the Perth-based company, whose board today
unanimously recommended the bid.  Buying Hunnu will give Banpu full control of a company that
owns 11 coking and thermal coal projects in Mongolia, home to
one of the world’s largest unexploited reserves of the fuel.
Banpu, which last year agreed to buy  Australia ’s Centennial Coal
Co., has said Mongolia’s coal industry has great potential
because of its closeness to markets including  China .  “This bid by Banpu takes a lot of pressure off Hunnu’s
management and it’s not surprising that they recommended this
bid because it basically removes any pressure on them to finance
these projects,” said Matthew Whittall, a Hong Kong-based
analyst at  Renaissance Capital  Ltd. “They have large resources
that are close to China.”  Hunnu Coal climbed 25 percent to A$1.725 at the 4:10 p.m.
Sydney time close on the Australian stock exchange, its biggest
gain since February last year. The shares were halted on Sept. 9.
Banpu fell 1.3 percent to 626 baht at 12:36 p.m. in Bangkok.  Steel Mills  Mongolia’s coal production doubled last year to 25 million
metric tons to become the nation’s top export earner, as demand
gained in China and  India , the world’s fastest growing major
economies. Prices of coking coal, used by steel mills, and
thermal coal, used by power stations, reached records this year.  Banpu’s offer is 51 percent higher than Hunnu’s 20-day
share price average, while 19 similar-sized Australian coal
acquisitions in the past five years have an average premium of
60 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Banpu’s share offer for Hunnu is at a significant premium
to recent trading levels and has regard to the strong prospects
of Hunnu’s coking and thermal coal deposits,” Banpu Chief
Executive Officer Chanin Vongkusolkit said in a statement.  There were $20.15 billion of takeover bids for coal-mining
companies valued at $100 million or more in the first nine
months of this year, compared with $7.06 billion a year earlier,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Citigroup Inc. in July raised its 2013 estimates for hard
coking coal by 30 percent and thermal coal by 36 percent, citing
limited new supplies of coking coal and more use of thermal coal
for electricity and increased Chinese and Indian imports.  Banpu wants to acquire Hunnu because it “is an advanced
exploration company with two advanced projects and the valuation
is relatively cheap,” said Renaissance Capital’s Whittall.  Banpu, which agreed in March to pay A$45 million to become
the largest shareholder in Hunnu Coal, is being advised by
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Allen & Overy .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net . 