-- 
Canadian Stocks Advance as Financials Climb, Crude Oil Rises

-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-09-13T20:59:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/bce-parex-resources-superior-plus-canadian-equity-preview.html
Canadian stocks rose, breaking a
three-day losing streak for the Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite
Index, as oil gained and financial companies rallied amid easing
concern about French banks.  Toronto-Dominion Bank,  Canada ’s second-largest lender by
assets, increased 1.7 percent. Bank of Nova Scotia, the third-
largest lender, added 1.3 percent.  Cenovus Energy Inc. (CVE)  rose 1.9
percent as crude climbed for a second day.  Silvercorp Metals
Inc. (SVM) , the Chinese silver miner accused of accounting fraud in an
anonymous letter last month, fell 20 percent after Carson Block’s Muddy Waters LLC said it was shorting the stock.  The S&P/TSX rose 56.65 points, or 0.5 percent, to 12,205.48
at 4 p.m. Toronto time. The gauge lost 4.5 percent during the
previous three days.  “We have a daily risk-on, risk-off trade as the market
responds to global news,” Mathieu Roy, a  money manager  at
Louisbourg Investments Inc. in Moncton, New Brunswick, said in a
telephone interview. Louisbourg manages about C$1.5 billion
($1.5 billion). “We’re in a nervous trading range driven by
macro events happening mostly in  Europe .”  The index has slumped 14 percent since April 5 as the
European debt crisis worsened. On Sept. 9, three officials with
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s coalition said the government
is preparing plans to shore up banks in the event that Greece
defaults. The officials declined to be named because the
deliberations are private.  Banks Rise  Toronto-Dominion Bank jumped 1.7 percent to C$73.85, while
 Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  surged 1.3 percent to C$51.45.  Royal Bank of
Canada (RY) , the country’s largest lender by assets, rose 0.1 percent
to C$46.25. The S&P/TSX Financials Index advanced 0.8 percent
while industrial stocks added the most among 10 industries,
gaining 1.6 percent.  BNP Paribas SA,  France ’s biggest bank, and  Societe Generale (GLE) 
SA rebounded in Paris trading after easing concerns over their
access to funding. Societe Generale jumped after Chief Executive
Officer  Frederic Oudea  said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television in  New York  that the bank’s exposure to European
sovereign debt was “manageable” and that it could do without
access to U.S. money-market funds.  Cenovus, the country’s fifth-biggest energy company,
rallied 1.9 percent to C$31.90.  Encana Corp. (ECA) , Canada’s biggest
natural gas producer, advanced 1.5 percent to C$22.68.  Crude climbed for a second day in New York on speculation a
report tomorrow will show stockpiles dropped in the U.S., the
biggest oil consuming country. Natural gas futures gained for
the first time in three days as forecasts showed hotter-than-
normal weather in the U.S. Midwest and West, boosting demand for
the power-plant fuel.  Guyana, Silvercorp  Guyana Goldfields Inc. (GUY)  rallied 1.3 percent to C$9.30. The
gold explorer with operations in  South America  was rated
“outperform” in new coverage at Credit Suisse Group AG with a
price estimate of C$13 a share.  Silvercorp fell 20 percent, the most in seven years, to
C$6.20. Lorne Waldman, a spokesman for Vancouver-based
Silvercorp, didn’t respond to e-mail and telephone requests for
comment. Block of Muddy Waters announced his bearish Silvercorp
bet on Twitter today.  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  reduced its forecast for the Canada’s
economic growth this year and next to reflect a  U.S. economy 
that had a deeper recession than previously reported, according
to Craig Alexander, the bank’s chief economist.  TD cut its growth forecast for Canada to 2.2 percent this
year, from 2.8 percent. It reduced the forecast for next year to
1.9 percent, from 2.5 percent, and raised the 2013 outlook to
2.6 percent, from 2.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  