-- 
Birinyi Sees Stock Bull Run Intact as Apple Overshadows Greece

-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 
2011-09-12T14:39:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/birinyi-sees-stock-bull-run-intact-as-apple-joins-google-to-offset-greece.html
U.S. companies are earning too much
for the bull market to be derailed by speculation  Europe ’s debt
crisis will spread, according to Laszlo Birinyi, who advised
clients to buy shares before they bottomed in March 2009.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  showed they can weather market
declines, said Birinyi, the president of Birinyi Associates Inc.
in Westport,  Connecticut . The stocks beat the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index during its 18 percent decline from April 29 to Aug. 8,
with Apple gaining 0.9 percent and Google up 0.4 percent. The
top two equity holdings at Birinyi’s firm are cheap, he said.
Google and Apple each trade at about a 60 percent discount to
their averages before the drop.  The former Salomon Brothers Inc. equity trader remains
bullish even after concern the global economy is heading for a
recession sent the benchmark gauge for U.S. equities down 15
percent from its April high through the end of last week. The
three-month correction through the index’s 2011 low on Aug. 8
occurred as investors speculated the debt crisis that began in
 Greece  was spreading. While Birinyi said equities won’t return
much in the next 12 months, they will surge after that.  “Apple comes out with the new phone, and on day one, the
line will go around the block three times,” he said during a
telephone interview on Sept. 8. “It’s really not going to
matter what’s going on in Greece,” he said. “I’m not willing
to give up on the world quite yet.”  Global Rout  Equities tumbled around the world today, pushing the MSCI
All-Country World Index within 0.5 percent of a  bear market ,
defined as a 20 percent retreat from its high. The  S&P 500  lost
0.5 percent at 10:30 a.m. in New York amid speculation  Germany 
is preparing for a debt default by Greece.  The S&P 500 sank as much as 13 percent last month, driving
its valuation down to 12.2 times earnings, compared with the
average since 1954 of 16.4, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It was the cheapest multiple since March 2009. The
measure then recovered, trimming the August drop to 5.7 percent.
Stocks plunged last month as S&P stripped the country of its AAA
rating and speculation increased that the world’s largest
economy could enter a recession.  The U.S. has a “better-than-even chance” that it will
enter another recession,  Harvard University ’s  Martin Feldstein ,
a member of the National Bureau of Economic Research committee
that determines economic cycles, said on Aug. 26.  Nouriel Roubini , co-founder and chairman of Roubini Global Economics
LLC, put the odds at 60 percent last week, while  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  sees the chance of the second recession since 2007 at an
“uncomfortable” 40 percent, according to a Sept. 7 note.  Beating Forecasts  S&P 500 earnings are poised to reach a record $99.88 a
share this year, according to the average of securities industry
estimates compiled by Bloomberg, after companies beat
projections for 10 straight quarters. Analysts have grown more
optimistic about earnings since the S&P 500 peaked on April 29,
driving their forecast up from $98.73 a share. At Apple, profits
have exceeded estimates every quarter since at least 2005, while
Google has posted earnings growth of more than 15 percent every
quarter since the bull market began.  The S&P 500 is in the third of four phases seen in bull
markets, a period of lower returns and slower advances,
according to Birinyi. While the index posted losses of almost 20
percent in the middle of 2011 and 2010, it won’t do that again
through this time next year, he said.  Enduring Bull  Birinyi has remained bullish for the 30 months since March
2009, saying stocks are in a “multi-year” rally. The S&P 500
gained 39 percent in the first three months of the bull market
before more than doubling through April 2011. The decline since
then pared the total gain to 71 percent through last week. Bull
markets since 1962 have produced advances averaging 120 percent,
according to Birinyi Associates data.  Comparisons to previous rallies signal more appreciation,
Birinyi said, reiterating a point he made at least nine times
during interviews and reports since the S&P 500 peaked in April.
As the S&P 500 was sliding last month, Birinyi said the market’s
upward trend remained intact because companies are still
reporting higher earnings.  This bull cycle is most similar to the one that began in
1982 and generated a 229 percent advance in five years, he said.
In the last eight months of that rally, the S&P 500 rose 39
percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Starts Off Gangbusters’  “When you have a market that starts off gangbusters, it
does not tend to peter out in the short term,” Birinyi said.
“We’ve been working on that thesis and we see no reason to
change.”  Birinyi said he isn’t buying financial institutions and
health-care companies, or seeking corporations that pay out
dividends. He has been recommending five stocks this year:  BP
Prudhoe Bay Royalty Trust (BPT) ,  Cummins Inc. (CMI) ,  Hermes International (RMS) ,
 Priceline.com Inc. (PCLN)  and Ralph Lauren Corp. All have outperformed
the S&P 500 since the index reached 1,363.61 on April 29, the
2011 high, except Cummins, which is down 11 percentage points
more than the index through Sept. 9.  “With regard to all the emotion, we try to stay away from
the possibilities and the potentials,” Birinyi said. “Yes, the
market could go down. Yes, we could go into a double dip. But we
try to work off facts. And facts are that Apple’s trading at 12
times earnings, and even in a worse-case scenario, teenagers are
still going to buy iTunes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in  New York  at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  