-- 
Bloomberg’s Job Approval Rating Rises on NYC Storm Preparation, Poll Says

-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-09-12T16:06:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/bloomberg-s-job-approval-rating-rises-on-nyc-storm-preparation-poll-says.html
New York  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ’s
job-approval rating rose to its highest since November after he
mobilized emergency services and ordered evacuations before
 Hurricane Irene , a Quinnipiac Poll reported.  Bloomberg’s performance was backed by 54 percent of those
surveyed the first week of September, up from 45 percent in
July. His rating was 40 percent in May and as high as 55 percent
on Nov. 23, according to  the poll .  “Maybe it was the decisive preparations for Irene,”
 Maurice Carroll , director of the  Quinnipiac University Polling
Institute  in Hamden,  Connecticut , said in a statement. “The
critics cried ‘overkill!’ But most people agreed with the mayor,
‘better safe than sorry.’”  Bloomberg ordered mandatory evacuation for about 370,000
people in Coney Island, the Rockaways, Battery Park City and
other neighborhoods before Irene passed through New York Aug. 27
and 28 as a tropical storm. Damage was less severe for the city
than the power disruptions and floods in upstate New York,  New
Jersey , Connecticut and Vermont.  Eighty-six percent of city voters approved of Bloomberg’s
preparations, which included daily news briefings, opening more
than 90 shelters on higher ground and evacuating residents
including hospital patients from low-lying areas.  Bloomberg’s disapproval rating fell as low as  39 percent  in
March, his lowest score in a Quinnipiac poll in eight years. The
mayor was criticized for not declaring a snow emergency in a
post-Christmas blizzard that dumped 20 inches of snow and left
some streets unplowed for a week.  The latest survey consisted of telephone interviews with
1,282 registered voters from Sept. 1-6. It has an error margin
of 2.7 percentage points, the poll stated in a news release.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  