-- 
German Stocks Fall, Led by Slides in Deutsche Bank, Commerzbank

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-09-12T16:16:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/bmw-deutsche-bank-lufthansa-munich-re-german-equity-preview.html
German stocks retreated, with the
benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  extending last week’s selloff, amid
speculation that the federal government is preparing for Greece
to default.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,  Germany ’s two biggest
lenders, followed declines in European financial shares.
 HeidelbergCement AG (HEI)  sank 3.7 percent as Bankhaus Metzler
recommended selling the company’s shares.  The DAX Index lost 2.3 percent to 5,072.33 at the 5:30 p.m.
close in Frankfurt. The benchmark slumped last week, erasing the
two previous weeks of gains, as concern escalated that policy
makers won’t be able to stop  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis from
growing and damaging the economic recovery. The broader HDAX
Index also declined 2.3 percent today.  “The market is in free fall again,” said Ansgar Krekeler,
a sales analyst at WGZ-Bank AG in Dusseldorf. “Politicians and
central banks are focusing on the financial sector as a ‘Lehman
moment’ is threatening.”  Officials in Chancellor Angela Merkel’s government are
debating how to shore up German banks should  Greece  fail to meet
the budget-cutting terms of its aid package, three coalition
officials said on Sept. 9. BNP Paribas SA, Societe Generale SA
and Credit Agricole SA may have their ratings cut by Moody’s
Investors Service this week because of their Greek debt
holdings, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  Greece’s Prime Minister  George Papandreou , vowing to avoid
a default and keep his country in the euro, approved new
measures to help plug a budget gap as resistance builds to
extending more aid to the European Union’s most-indebted member.  Bank Stocks  Deutsche Bank plummeted 7.3 percent to 21.40 euros, its
lowest price in 2 1/2 years. Smaller competitor Commerzbank lost
8.3 percent to 1.53 euros, the lowest price on record. Banking
shares were the worst performers amid 19 industry groups in the
benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index today, falling 4.6 percent.  A Bloomberg index showed 46 lenders trading at 0.56 times
book value, the cheapest since the post-Lehman lows of March
2009, signaling investors estimate their net assets are worth
less than the companies claim and are demanding discounts for
perceived risks. Valuations reflect the impact of a potential
sovereign default for some banks, according to Barclays Plc
analysts led by Jeremy Sigee.  HeidelbergCement, ThyssenKrupp  HeidelbergCement lost 3.7 percent to 26.09 euros, the
lowest in more than two years, as Bankhaus Metzler downgraded
the cement maker to “sell” from “buy.”  EON AG and  RWE AG (RWE) , Germany’s two largest nuclear operators,
fell 3.7 percent to 12.88 euros and 4 percent to 21.77 euros
after a blast at a nuclear-waste facility in  France .  Continental AG, Europe’s second-biggest car-parts maker,
declined 5.7 percent to 40.97 euros as Exane BNP Paribas
downgraded the stock to “neutral” from “outperform.”  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  preferred shares slipped 1.5 percent to
102.20 euros. Europe’s biggest carmaker said it has no intention
of selling or reducing its stake in  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269)  after the
German carmaker accused its partner of breaking the rules of the
two manufacturers’ contract agreement by agreeing to purchase
engines from Fiat SpA.  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX)  led rising shares in the DAX as
Europe’s second-biggest chipmaker was raised to “buy” from
“neutral” at UBS AG. The stock advanced 2.7 percent to 5.72
euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  