-- 
Bank of America to Slash 30,000 Jobs in Cost-Cutting Plan

-- B y   H u g h   S o n ,   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   M a x   A b e l s o n
-- 
2011-09-12T19:07:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/bofa-to-slash-30-000-jobs-in-first-phase-of-cost-cutting-program.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the biggest
U.S. lender by assets, will eliminate 30,000 jobs in the next
few years as part of Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan ’s
plan to bolster profit and the company’s stock.  The reductions, equal to about 10 percent of the staff, are
part of an overhaul that aims to remove about $5 billion in
annual costs by the end of 2013. Moynihan’s plan, dubbed Project
New BAC, included a management shakeup last week that elevated
Thomas K. Montag and David Darnell to co-chief operating
officers and left  Sallie Krawcheck  and  Joe Price  without jobs.  “We don’t have to be the biggest company out there, we
have to be the best,” Moynihan said today at a New York
investor conference. “We can get out of things we don’t need to
do, make the company leaner, more straightforward, more
driven.”  Bank of America announced the job cuts in a statement
minutes after President  Barack Obama  began delivering remarks
about his efforts to increase employment. The  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based company is seeking to shave about 18 percent of
$27 billion in consumer-related expenses, Moynihan said.  The bank dropped 8 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $6.90 at 2:03
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Bank of
America ranks as the largest employer among U.S. lenders, with
Moynihan estimating the workforce today at 287,000. The company
has already ceded the title of largest home lender to  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC) , and slipped to No. 2 in deposits at midyear behind
New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   Efficiency Ratio  People affected by the cuts may include those working in
data centers and deposit systems, said Moynihan, 51. The company
had 63 data centers inherited through its acquisitions, and
“we’ll take that down,” he said. Also targeted are three
deposit systems, one scheduled to be “merged out” later this
year and another in 2012, plus “tens of millions of square
feet” in idle real estate.  Those are part of Project New BAC’s first phase, which
focuses on  consumer banking , credit cards, home loans and
technology, Moynihan said. The second phase will begin in
October and continue until April, covering institutional
services such as global markets, commercial banking and
corporate banking, according to the  investor presentation .  Phase 2 won’t include any change in compensation plans for
wealth-management employees, Moynihan said. The bank has focused
on curbing defections from its top financial advisers at Merrill
Lynch and U.S. Trust. The second phase is “probably not going
to be as fruitful on dollars per square inch, but it will be
fruitful,” he said.  Largest Employers  After Bank of America, the biggest employers among U.S.
banks are San Francisco-based Wells Fargo, which has the largest
branch network, and New York-based  Citigroup Inc. (C)  Each had more
than 260,000 employees at midyear. JPMorgan, the most profitable
U.S. bank, had about 250,000 workers.  The job cuts are the biggest since last month, when London-
based HSBC Holdings Plc announced plans to eliminate 30,000
positions globally by the end of 2013. Wells Fargo has said it
will cut about $6 billion in annual costs by the end of 2012.  As for the timing of the announcement by Bank of America,
 Larry DiRita , a spokesman for the bank, said decisions tied to
Phase 1 were expected around now from the outset.  “With these decisions made, it was the time to inform our
employees and others,” DiRita said via e-mail. “There were no
other considerations as to timing.”  Profit Squeeze  Moynihan has sought to bolster capital at the bank and
confidence among investors after a 54 percent slide in the stock
from the time he became CEO in January 2010 through last week.
His tenure includes posting a record $8.8 billion quarterly
loss, committing $30 billion to clean up faulty mortgages and
selling at least $40 billion of assets and preferred shares.  Profit is under pressure mainly because of losses, legal
costs and writedowns tied to the 2008 takeover of subprime
lender Countrywide Financial Corp. At the same time, revenue is
shrinking as the  U.S. economy  slows. Moynihan has said that
because the bank is one of the biggest consumer lenders, its
fortunes are closely tied to  home prices  and the jobless rate.  About four dozen of the bank’s top executives met last week
to review Project New BAC, named after the company’s stock
ticker symbol, a person familiar with the plan had said.
Moynihan told investors on Aug. 10 that money saved from the
initiative “will be both material and substantial,” which the
bank needs as the economy slows and new federal regulations cut
revenue.  Too Much Information  The multi-month effort behind Project New BAC is a way of
“re-engineering your processes, particularly appropriate for a
company that’s a product of mergers and integrations,”
according to Alastair Borthwick, co-head of global capital
markets and a participant in the planning.  For example, the managers found that the company’s internal
financial reporting has “a high degree of frequency, a high
degree of completeness, and a high degree of detail,” Borthwick
said in an Aug. 31 interview. “What we’re asking is, can we
live with fewer, smaller, less-detailed reports across the
entire firm?”  Borthwick realized in his own European equity business that
he was getting daily reports describing what had happened that
day. They were so “extremely well-written” and “incredibly
precise” that he figured someone was spending an hour or more a
day on them. From his desk at One  Bryant Park  in New York one
July day, he hit reply-all after getting his daily report and
requested that the notes stop or say simply that nothing
material had happened, or be written periodically only if there
were important news.  Addition by Subtraction  If “I and my colleagues can live with 20 percent less
reports, and the 20 percent less time spent on those activities,
then it allows your finance teams to get after higher-value-
added activities.”  Bank of America fell 48 percent this year through last
week, the worst performance in the Dow average and 24-company
KBW Bank Index, as investors focused on costs tied to the
Countrywide takeover and speculated the firm may issue new
shares to boost capital. Last month, American International
Group Inc. added to the woes, suing to recoup at least $10
billion in losses on mortgage bonds. Bank of America said AIG
was to blame and that the New York-based insurer was an
“informed, seasoned investor.”  Such disputes “will take a lot longer -- and it’s in our
best interest to have it take longer,” Moynihan, who has a law
degree and served a stint as general counsel, said in a Sept. 6
interview. “You have to chop away at them, as the legal teams
will do. It’s going to stay with us for a long time because it’s
not in our best interest to do something there until we chop the
cases down and get people to be more realistic.”  Previous Job Cuts  In an Aug. 18 memo, Moynihan disclosed 3,500 job cuts that
will affect operations across the firm and include as much as 5
percent of the investment-banking unit, or about 600 people, two
people with knowledge of the plans said last month.  “This obviously is a challenging time for our company in
the markets, and for our shareholders,” Moynihan said in the
memo. “I know it is tough to have to manage through reductions,
but we owe it to our customers and our shareholders to remain
competitive, efficient and manage our expenses carefully.”  Bank of America leaders had been “fighting a different
battle” before, and that was to gain scale, Moynihan said in
the interview. His predecessor,  Kenneth D. Lewis , spent more
than $130 billion assembling a company with leading positions in
deposits, credit cards, mortgages, investment and corporate
banking and  wealth management . The firm had $2.26 trillion in
assets as of June 30.  One of Moynihan’s decisions -- to get out of managing
private-equity investments gained in the 2009 acquisition of
Merrill Lynch & Co. -- has saved millions of dollars a year, he
said. Moynihan said he was following a blueprint for asset sales
he gave to directors in 2009, as Bank of America directors were
interviewing candidates to succeed Lewis, who resigned at the
end of that year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Max Abelson in New York at 
 mabelson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  