-- 
Botox-Maker Allergan Tests Eyelash Lengthener for Baldness

-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 
2011-09-12T21:58:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/botox-maker-allergan-tests-eyelash-lengthener-for-baldness.html
Allergan Inc. has moved its eyelash
treatment into the second clinical stage of testing as a therapy
for baldness and expects to see data by the middle of next year,
Chief Executive Officer David Pyott said.  The product, Latisse, was approved in 2008 to aid in
eyelash growth, and generated $82 million last year for the
Irvine, California-based company. Allergan is currently testing
Latisse for men and women against placebo. U.S. regulators
generally require three stages of trials before approval.  The tests follow a business model Allergan successfully
implemented with Botox, its top-selling product with $1.42
billion in revenue last year. Initially approved for therapeutic
uses in 1989, Botox’s wrinkle-smoothing properties were
identified as a side effect. The product was then cleared in
2002 as an injection to smooth frown lines between the brows.
Latisse is a version of Allergan’s glaucoma drug Lumigan, which
was found to stimulate lash growth as a side effect of
therapeutic treatment.  “The docs used to start laughing, because there are
patients luckily that only have glaucoma in one eye and so
they’d come in and say, ‘Doc I’ve got these beautiful eyelashes
over here, what should I do?’” Pyott said today during an
interview in  New York . Now, for baldness, “We know anecdotally
it works. The question is, how well does it work?”  Allergan declined 39 cents, or less than 1 percent, to
$78.18 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
The shares have gained 14 percent this year.  Added Sales  Latisse may gain up to an additional $200 million to $500
million in annual sales by 2020 if it’s proven to spur hair
growth, estimated Ronny Gal, an analyst with Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in New York. The product is designed to work
similarly to other hair-loss therapies such as Johnson &
Johnson’s Rogaine, said Gal, who recommends buying Allergan
shares.  “It will grow hair from the existing follicle, and help
you maintain the hair you’ve got,” Gal said in a telephone
interview today. “It’s clear it works in principle, because we
know it grows eyebrows and we know it grows lashes.”  Allergan won approval last month for the use of Botox as a
therapy for urinary incontinence, and in October as a treatment
for chronic migraine headaches. The company estimates the
product will produce $1.55 billion to $1.59 billion in revenue
this year, and foresees about $100 million in sales from
Latisse.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  