-- 
Most Brazilian Stocks Advance as Weaker Real Boosts Exporters’ Outlook

-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 
2011-09-12T21:08:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/bovespa-stock-futures-decline-on-speculation-greece-will-default-on-debt.html
Most Brazilian equities rose and
the Bovespa stock index pared an earlier drop of as much as 2.6
percent after the real fell to its lowest level in almost nine
months, boosting the outlook for exporters.  Pulp and paper exporters Fibria Celulose SA and Klabin SA
advanced. Embraer SA, the world’s fourth-largest planemaker,
gained the most in one week. Itau Unibanco Holding SA fell as
European banks tumbled on concern Moody’s Investors Service may
cut ratings on French lenders.  The Bovespa fell 0.2 percent to 55,685.47 at 4:15 p.m. New
York time. The index pared losses in the last hour of trading,
tracking stocks in the U.S., after the Financial Times reported
 Italy  approached  China  about selling “significant” quantities
of bonds and investments in some companies. The newspaper cited
Italian officials it didn’t identify.  Thirty-five stocks advanced on the index, while 31 fell.
The real weakened 1.7 percent to 1.7026 per  U.S. dollar , the
lowest since December.  “Stocks that gain with a weaker real helped to boost the
Bovespa today,” Fausto Gouveia, who helps manage about 250
million reais ($146 million) at Legan Administracao de Recursos,
said in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo. “This would
surely be a big help to Italy,” Gouveia said about the Italian
news.  Embraer rose 3.7 percent to 10.2 reais. Fibria gained 3.3
percent to 15.89 reais. Klabin jumped 4.3 percent to 5.39 reais.  The real tumbled to the weakest level since December on
concern a possible default from  Greece  may curb capital inflows
to emerging markets.  French Banks  BNP Paribas SA, Societe Generale SA and Credit Agricole SA
plunged at least 11 percent in Paris on a possible ratings cut
by Moody’s. France’s three largest banks by market value may
have their credit ratings cut as early as this week because of
their Greek holdings, two people with knowledge of the matter
said.  Brazilian banks could be affected by problems faced by
European banks, even though they don’t have a relevant exposure
to Greek bonds, if a sovereign default freezes global credit
markets,  Alvaro Bandeira , a director at Ativa Corretora
brokerage, said in a telephone interview from  Rio de Janeiro .  Itau fell 1.8 percent to 28.29 reais. The MSCI
 Brazil /Financials Index slumped 3.2 percent, the second-worst
performer among 10 industry groups.  The Bovespa entered a  bear market  on July 27 after plunging
20 percent from its bull-market peak in November. The measure
extended that drop to 24 percent through Sept. 9.  Brazil’s benchmark index trades at 9.5 times analysts’
earnings estimates, according to weekly data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares to a ratio of 11.5 for the Shanghai
Composite Index, 5.7 for Russia’s Micex and 14.2 for  India ’s
Sensex.  Traders moved 5.37 billion reais in stocks in Sao Paulo on
Sept. 9, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares to a
daily average this year of 6.55 billion reais through Sept. 6,
according to data from the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  