-- 
Brace for a Long Recovery From Global Credit Glut: Simon Johnson

-- B y   S i m o n   J o h n s o n
-- 
2011-09-12T00:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/brace-for-a-long-recovery-from-credit-glut-commentary-by-simon-johnson.html
Until recently, the standard
narrative most analysts applied to macroeconomic news went like
this: We had a major financial crisis in the fall of 2008, which
immediately brought on a severe recession that would be followed
by relatively fast recovery.  All countries suffered to some extent; all should recover,
albeit presumably at varying rates, and reasonable people could
disagree about which nation would grow faster and in a more
durable manner.  The prevailing thought was that a rising tide lifts all
boats. It turns out that may have been the wrong maritime
metaphor. A more apt image may be the advice to investors
attributed to  Warren Buffett : “You don’t know who’s swimming
naked until the tide goes out.” The questions that preoccupy us
now are: Is the tide coming in or still going out? Or did the
big storm permanently ruin the beach?  To get a fix on where the global economy is heading, start
by thinking about just three countries: the U.S., Germany and
 China . For all three, the central issue is the same: Credit.  Each nation is contending with a different kind of credit
crisis, but the crux of the problem is the same for all: How to
move away from a model of growth based on very high leverage,
while still managing to grow.  Consumer Spending  In the U.S., households are at the epicenter of the crisis
as consumption accounts for slightly more than 70 percent of
final spending. Many Americans ran down their savings and
borrowed heavily in the years before 2008; they were encouraged,
of course, by some parts of the financial sector.  Does anyone
think  house prices  will rise consistently again in the near
future, let alone provide enough wealth to finance retirements?  In any case, some lasting increase in the household savings
rate is to be expected. Similar thinking probably applies to the
small-business sector. The death of credit in October 2008 has
made everyone want to be more careful. There is a legitimate
reluctance to spend and to hire, and it’s hard to imagine a
politically feasible fiscal stimulus that would make a
difference.  If consumers and entrepreneurs paid closer attention to the
macro numbers, they would probably be more pessimistic. A 1
percent per year expansion of gross domestic product -- the
latest  official read on second-quarter growth  in 2011 -- is
about what the U.S. needs to keep pace with  population growth ,
which the Census Bureau estimates between 0.85 percent and 1
percent most years over the past decade.  Lost Half-Decade  If you compare nominal GDP per capita for the second
quarter of 2006 with the number for the second quarter of 2011,
the U.S. has had about 8 percent growth. Yet inflation during
the same period -- using the standard indices -- has been a bit
higher. In other words, the world’s largest economy, accounting
for about 25 percent of global output, has already lost a half
decade.  The U.S. could begin to pull out of its malaise. It still
is home to a great deal of innovation and big companies are
making plenty of money. The equity-financed part of the private
sector has strong prospects and new technology-based ventures
continue to attract top talent from around the world.  Still, it isn’t helpful that our politicians insist on
pounding down  consumer confidence  through rhetoric and
confrontation, and by doing nothing to prevent job cuts by state
and local governments.  Those cuts make little sense. The U.S. is the world’s best
credit risk and there is wide agreement that strengthening
education is the path to long-term productivity growth, yet
teachers are being laid off around the country.  Banking Crisis  To make matters worse, there is no good news from the U.S.
banking system. The Obama administration made the decision to
allow big banks to recapitalize as the economy recovered, while
also permitting dividends to increase and high bonus payouts to
resume. As the recovery stalls, this strategy looks increasingly
dubious because the banks’ equity capital levels are now
probably too low to buffer the shock of another down leg.  Compounding this, directly and indirectly, is the economic
disaster in  Europe . The over-borrowing there can primarily be
attributed to governments -- encouraged by most of the financial
sector -- that enacted crazy rules allowing banks to view
sovereign loans as “risk free.” That version of a highly
leveraged growth model needs to be unwound and it will be hard
to do so smoothly.  Greek Debt  The Germans are the leading creditor to the euro zone and
their thinking sets the tone. The main idea at present is to
ring-fence a restructuring of Greek debt to ensure the impact
doesn’t spread to the rest of the currency union. This, too, is
proving difficult; witness the repeated upward pressure on
Italian  interest rates .  In the end, the  European Central Bank  may well hold a great
deal of Italian, Spanish and other debt. But their on-off bond
buying process is likely to bring with it tighter credit across
the “periphery,” an elastic geographic concept that keeps
threatening to expand.  Perhaps the euro will weaken enough to help rescue Italy
and others. But the effect could be short-lived as U.S. politics
will discourage big capital inflows and many official holders of
reserves would rather diversify away from the dollar. The
British pound looks unlikely to gain value, the Japanese yen
remains volatile, and the Swiss franc is now tied to the euro.  Stark’s Resignation  The European currency may remain relatively strong, so we
shouldn’t expect a depreciation-induced export miracle for the
euro zone. Even so, the resignation on Sept. 9 of Juergen Stark
-- a German member of the ECB Executive Board -- pushed the euro
lower. Any further backing away from the ECB by  Germany  could be
a game changer.  The continent has entered a period of fiscal austerity and
monetary confusion. In this situation, it is hard to see how the
European Union will show anything other than low growth for the
next several years, placing another quarter of the world’s
economy in the doldrums.  And then there is China, which has long featured a great
deal of borrowing by state-run enterprises and their spin-offs,
but has recently moved rapidly into  consumer credit ,
particularly as high-income households buy real estate on the
expectation of future asset-price increases.  China’s share of global output remains relatively small --
about 12 percent, even with the most generous adjustment for
purchasing power -- but it contributes more than a quarter of
world growth, and has a definitive effect on many commodity
prices, with significant consequences for prosperity across most
of the developing world.  China’s Hybrids  Can China do a better job managing the flow of credit to
its hybrid state-private sector combinations than the U.S. did
with its private sector and the euro zone did with its
governments?  Probably not. Careless lending, backed by implicit
government guarantees, has increased around the globe over the
past 40 years (see “ Will the Politics of Global Moral Hazard
Sink Us Again? ” which I wrote with Peter Boone).  The Chinese learned these practices from the best in the
business, that is the people and organizations that were revered
for their wisdom in the 1990s and early 2000s, but ultimately
systematically mispriced risk.  Economic development is often described as “catching up.”
But the prospects for global growth in the short term greatly
depend on whether China can avoid following in the footsteps of
the U.S. and Europe.  Growth based on a great deal of leverage has proved fragile,
but we haven’t yet moved to a different model. For now, the
transition away from high levels of private and public sector
debt will most likely be prolonged. It will certainly be painful.  ( Simon Johnson , who served as chief economist at the
 International Monetary Fund  in 2007 and 2008, and is now a
Professor at the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology  and a
senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International
Economics, is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Simon Johnson at  sjohnson@mit.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at  mberley@bloomberg.net . 