-- 
Brazil Real Falls to Weakest in 10 Months on Concerns About Greek Default

-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 
2011-09-12T21:45:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/brazil-interest-rate-futures-drop-on-tombini-comment-greek-debt-concern.html
Brazil ’s real tumbled to the
weakest level since November on concern  Greece  may default on
its debt, limiting capital inflows to emerging markets.  The real sank 1.7 percent to 1.7026 per dollar, from 1.6741
on Sept. 9. It earlier touched 1.7274, the weakest level since
Nov. 29.  The yield on Greece’s two-year note climbed toward 70
percent even after the government announced a new set of
measures to meet the 2011 deficit goal in its European Union-led
rescue. Moody’s Investors Service may cut the ratings of French
banks BNP Paribas SA, Societe Generale SA and Credit Agricole SA
this week because of their Greek holdings, two people with
knowledge of the matter said.  “Everyone is very afraid of a Greek default,” said Andre de Carvalho Ferreira, director of Nova Futura DTVM Ltda., a
brokerage firm in  Sao Paulo . “You never know what’s going to
happen. There’s no upside to hold the real. There’s more to
go.”  The Brazilian currency fell as much as 3.1 percent earlier
today. It pared some losses after the Financial Times reported
that  Italy ’s government was in talks with China Investment Corp.
about “significant” purchases of Italian bonds and investments
in strategic companies.  Yields on Brazil’s interest rate futures contract due in
January 2013 fell 10 basis points, or 0.1 percentage point, to
10.61 percent.  ‘Longer Crisis’  The international economic crisis will last longer than the
one in 2008, weakening growth and tempering inflation in Brazil,
central bank President Alexandre Tombini said in an interview
with Sao Paulo-based newspaper  Valor Economico  published today.
Commodities prices may remain at current levels, growth in
Brazil’s labor market may decelerate and inflation for services
will slow, he said.  “Tombini is talking about a longer crisis,” said Rafael Espinoso, an analyst at CM Capital Markets Ltda. in Sao Paulo.
“There’s no doubt that rates will fall. The question is for how
long and the magnitude of the drop.”  The yield on the contract due in January 2013 has declined
47 basis points since policy makers cut the benchmark Selic
target rate a half point to 12 percent on Aug. 31 after raising
it at their previous five meetings this year.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  is struggling to
convince investors that Europe’s most-indebted country can avoid
a default that threatens to roil the euro region. Officials in
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government are debating how to shore
up German banks should Greece fail to meet budget-cutting terms
of its aid package, three coalition officials said Sept. 9.  Effect on the Real  The crisis in Europe is having a greater effect on the real
than the Brazilian government’s earlier measures to contain its
appreciation by imposing taxes on foreign investments in real-
denominated assets, said  Francisco Carvalho , currency director
at Liquidez DTVM Ltda.  Brazil imposed a 1 percent tax on currency derivatives in
July to weaken the real, which strengthened to a 12-year high of
1.529 per dollar on July 26.  “Everything depends on a solution for  Europe ’s most
indebted nations,” Carvalho said in a telephone interview from
Sao Paulo. “What the government couldn’t accomplish, the market
is doing now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net 
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  