-- 
U.K. Banks Plan to Cut Jobs as Hiring Intentions ‘Collapse’

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-09-12T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/britain-s-banks-plan-to-cut-jobs-as-hiring-plans-collapse-manpower-says.html
U.K. banks plan to cut jobs over
the remainder of the year, according to a report today, which
may further undermine the faltering economic recovery.  A measure of financial employers’ hiring intentions for the
fourth quarter fell to minus 5 from plus 3 in the previous
quarter, the U.K. unit of recruitment firm  Manpower Inc. (MAN)  said in
London today. That’s the lowest since the survey started in 2005
and reflects a “collapse” in bank hiring, it said.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  last month announced plans to eliminate about
35,000 positions as the biggest global banks cut jobs at the
fastest pace since 2008. The moves undermine U.K. Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s plan to get companies to create
enough jobs to compensate for the 330,000 public-sector posts he
is eliminating as the government reduces the  budget deficit .  “Six months ago it looked like the banks were going to
lead the way out of recession and could even have filled the
hole created by the slowdown in the public sector,” Manpower
U.K. Managing Director Mark Cahill said in the statement. “The
finance sector was hiring like nobody’s business, it was
consistently the most optimistic sector post-recession, but this
has now fallen away quite dramatically.”  European bank shares have fallen about 34 percent in the
past three months on concern the euro-area debt turmoil will
become a banking crisis and as the global economy cools.
 London ’s FTSE-350 Bank Index has dropped 25 percent in the same
period, compared with a 19 percent decline by the Stoxx 600.  London Falling  A measure of hiring intentions in London fell 6 points from
the last quarterly survey to zero, indicating there was an equal
number of employers planning to increase and decrease staffing
levels over the next three months, Manpower said. The decline
was driven by the capital’s dependence on financial services for
employment, it said.  Manpower, the world’s No. 2 provider of temporary workers,
said its index for all industries fell 1 point to 2, the first
decline since the second quarter of 2009.  The report, based on responses from 2,100 employers, also
showed that jobs may be cut in the hotel and retail industries,
as well as in construction. A measure of business services’
hiring plans was at 8, while the gauge for utilities was at 10.  Manpower said Britain is “split in half” in terms of
hiring intentions, with employment prospects in many parts of
north England and  Scotland  “looking increasingly bleak” and
the south “broadly positive.”  A separate report from the  Royal Institution  of Chartered
Surveyors today showed their U.K. house-price index was little
changed in August and an expectations gauge dropped. The number
of real-estate agents and surveyors saying prices fell last
month exceeded those seeing gains by 23 percentage points,
compared with 22 percentage points in July. A price expectations
measure fell to minus 23 from minus 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  