-- 
Broadcom’s $3.7 Billion NetLogic Purchase Is Bet on Web Traffic for Mobile

-- B y   I a n   K i n g   a n d   B r e t t   P u l l e y
-- 
2011-09-12T20:31:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/broadcom-s-3-7-billion-netlogic-purchase-is-bet-on-web-traffic-for-mobile.html
Broadcom Corp. (BRCM)  plans to spend $3.7
billion on chipmaker  NetLogic Microsystems Inc. (NETL)  to benefit from
surging demand for networking equipment that delivers video and
Web access to mobile devices.  NetLogic investors will get $50 a share, a 57 percent
premium to the closing price for the  Santa Clara , California-
based company on Sept. 9, Broadcom said in a statement.  Customers such as Huawei Technologies Co. and ZTE Corp. use
NetLogic processors in the equipment that controls the flow of
video and other data across the Internet. The deal gives
Broadcom, which also makes chips for mobile handsets, a more
profitable way to harness the boom in tablets and smartphones,
said Stacy Rasgon, an analyst Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  “Strategically it makes a lot of sense,” said Rasgon, who
is based in  New York  and has a “market perform” rating on
Broadcom. “The one thing that’s going to throw people is the
price.”  NetLogic had a gross margin -- or portion of revenue
remaining after deducting the cost of sales -- of 55 percent
last year, topping Broadcom’s 52 percent.  Shares Surge  NetLogic jumped $16.21, or 51 percent, to $48.12 at 4 p.m.
New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. Shares of Broadcom,
based in  Irvine ,  California , fell 38 cents to $33.06. The stock
has lost 24 percent this year.  Both boards have approved the deal, and the companies
expect it to close in the first half of 2012.  Broadcom said the acquisition will boost its 2012 earnings
per share, excluding some items, by 10 cents. The company also
reiterated its financial targets for this quarter.  Broadcom, which makes chips for Samsung Electronics Co. and
Nokia Oyj mobile phones, said the purchase more than doubles its
potential market in  network equipment , Chief Executive Officer
Scott McGregor said in a telephone interview. NetLogic has
increased sales for at least eight consecutive years as soaring
Internet traffic boosted demand for wireless-network equipment.  Networking equipment made up only about 23 percent of
Broadcom’s sales last year. The company also sells
semiconductors used in set-top boxes,  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad and
routers used to create hot spots in people’s homes.  Big Premium  Broadcom is paying 69 percent more than NetLogic’s average
stock price over the 20 trading days before the announcement,
according to Bloomberg data. The average premium for about 135
similar deals was 25 percent over the past five years, according
to Bloomberg data.  “The premium is fair,” said McGregor. “This acquisition
expands our market into additional networking opportunities.”  Sales of smartphones surged 74 percent to 107.7 million
devices worldwide in the second quarter of 2011, compared with
the same period a year earlier, according to a  report  last month
from Gartner.  NetLogic’s processors can recognize what type of data is
passing through a switch and prioritize traffic to make a
network run faster and more efficiently. Broadcom will sell
NetLogic’s chips along with its own products to makers of
switches and routers that direct the flow of information.  The deal is the fourth-largest acquisition of a U.S.
chipmaker in the past five years, and the second-largest this
year after  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN)  agreed to buy National
Semiconductor Corp. for about $6.5 billion in April, according
to Bloomberg data.  NetLogic was advised by Qatalyst Partners, and Bingham
McCutchen LLP was the legal counsel. Broadcom was advised by the
 law firm  Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brett Pulley in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net ;
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 iking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  