-- 
Broadcom to Acquire NetLogic Microsystems for $3.7 Billion

-- B y   B r e t t   P u l l e y   a n d   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-09-12T14:40:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/broadcom-agrees-to-buy-netlogic-microsystems-for-3-7-billion.html
Broadcom Corp. (BRCM) , the maker of
communications chips, agreed to buy  NetLogic Microsystems Inc. (NETL) 
for about $3.7 billion in cash to gain processors used in data
networks.  NetLogic shareholders will get $50 a share, the companies
said today in a statement. That’s 57 percent more than  Santa
Clara , California-based NetLogic’s closing price on Sept. 9.  Broadcom, which makes chips for television set-top boxes,
is using the deal to boost its customer base among companies
that are building machinery to distribute video and other data-
intensive content over the Internet. The purchase extends
Broadcom’s product lineup with processors to manage data
traffic.  “NetLogic had a great runway ahead of the company and
Broadcom realized that,” said Gary Mobley, an analyst at
Benchmark Co. in  New York , who recommends buying both companies’
shares. “Broadcom obviously recognized that the equity value of
NetLogic was underappreciated.”  NetLogic rose $15.96, or 50 percent, to $47.87 at 10:08
a.m. New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market, and had gained
1.6 percent this year before today. Broadcom, based in Irvine,
 California , fell 20 cents to $33.24, and had lost 23 percent in
2011 before today.  Both boards have approved the deal, and the companies
expect to close it in the first half of 2012. Broadcom said the
acquisition will boost its 2012 earnings per share, excluding
some items, by 10 cents. The company also reiterated its
financial targets for this quarter.  ‘Networking Opportunities’  Broadcom said the purchase more than doubles its
addressable market in network infrastructure. NetLogic has
increased sales for at least eight consecutive years as soaring
Internet traffic boosted demand for wireless-network equipment.  Broadcom is paying 69 percent more than NetLogic’s average
stock price over the 20 trading days before the announcement,
according to Bloomberg data. The average premium for about 135
similar deals was 25 percent over the past five years, according
to Bloomberg data.  “The premium is fair,” Broadcom Chief Executive Officer
Scott McGregor said in an interview. “This acquisition expands
our market into additional networking opportunities.”  The deal is the fourth-largest acquisition of a U.S.
chipmaker in the past five years, and the second-largest this
year after  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN)  agreed to buy National
Semiconductor Corp. for about $6.5 billion in April,
according to Bloomberg data.  NetLogic was advised by Qatalyst Partners, and Bingham
McCutchen LLP was the legal counsel. Broadcom was advised by the
 law firm  Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brett Pulley in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net ;
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 iking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  