-- 
Buffett Hires Hedge Fund Manager Ted Weschler

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-09-12T13:20:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/buffett-hires-ted-weschler-to-help-manage-berkshire-hathaway-s-portfolio.html
Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)  hired Ted Weschler to help oversee the company’s investment
portfolio and may add another  fund manager  as the firm prepares
a new generation of leaders.  Weschler, 50, has told limited partners at his
Charlottesville, Virginia-based Peninsula Capital Advisors LLC
that he will be departing and will join Berkshire early next
year, Buffett’s company said today in a statement.  Berkshire plans to divide Buffett’s responsibilities as
chief investment officer among as many as three money managers.
Buffett, 81, last year announced the hiring of hedge-fund
manager Todd Combs.  “After Mr. Buffett no longer serves as CEO, Todd and Ted -
- possibly aided by one additional manager - will have
responsibility for the entire equity and debt portfolio of
Berkshire, subject to overall direction by the then-CEO and
board of directors,” the Omaha, Nebraska-based company said in
the statement. “With Todd and Ted on board, Berkshire is well-
positioned for successor investment management at the time Mr.
Buffett is no longer CEO.”  Buffett, who also serves as chairman, will continue to
manage most of Berkshire’s funds until his retirement, according
to the statement. Berkshire’s stock portfolio was valued at more
than $67 billion as of June 30, including the largest stakes in
Coca-Cola Co., American Express Co. and Wells Fargo & Co.  ‘Under the Radar’  Peninsula had about $2 billion in the stock of nine
companies as of June 30, the firm said in a regulatory filing.
The holdings included investments in satellite television
provider  DirecTV (DTV) , specialty chemical-maker W.R. Grace & Co., and
dialysis facility owner  DaVita Inc. (DVA) , the filing showed.  “One of the things that Buffett is looking for is some
really good talent that’s probably under the radar screen,”
said David Rolfe, chief investment officer of Berkshire investor
Wedgewood Partners Inc.  Rolfe said the next investment manger hired by Buffett may
specialize in bonds. Berkshire’s fixed maturity portfolio was
valued at more than $35 billion, including non-U.S.  government
bonds  and corporate debt.  Berkshire said in February that there are four potential
candidates to replace Buffett as CEO, without naming them. The
CEO will supervise more than 70 subsidiaries, while the
investment heads will run portfolios that include premiums from
insurance operations. Buffett has said his son,  Howard Buffett ,
a Berkshire director, would be an effective non-executive
chairman.  Berkshire said the search for investment managers
intensified after the departure last year of Lou Simpson, 74,
who oversaw investments at the Geico subsidiary.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  