-- 
Business Economists Cut U.S. Growth Outlook Through ’12 as Confidence Dims

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-09-12T15:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/business-economists-cut-u-s-growth-outlook-through-12-as-confidence-dims.html
The  U.S. economy  will grow less
than previously estimated through 2012, reflecting a slump in
confidence, limited consumer spending and a struggling housing
market, a survey showed.  Gross domestic product in the world’s largest economy will
expand 1.7 percent this year, less than the May forecast of 2.8
percent, according to results of a survey by the  National
Association for Business Economics  issued today in  Washington .
Growth in 2012 will average 2.3 percent after a previous
projection of 3.2 percent.  Some 54 percent of respondents lowered their growth
forecasts because they said the legislation stemming from the
debt-ceiling debate will fail to reduce the long-term  budget
deficit . Unemployment projected to stay above 8.5 percent until
late next year and  Europe ’s debt crisis were also among
panelists’ top concerns.  “A wide variety of factors were seen as restraining
growth, including low consumer and business confidence,
uncertainty about future economic policies, a tepid housing
market, and financial headwinds,” Gene Huang, NABE president-
elect and chief economist at FedEx Corp., said in a statement.  Thirty percent of respondents, up from 11 percent in May,
view the recovery as “subpar, with severe wealth losses and
onerous debt burdens.” Some 24 percent, down from 34 percent in
the prior survey, said the recovery will continue at a
“moderate” pace, while 13 percent, up from 3 percent, said the
economy will slide into a recession.  Consumer Spending   Consumer spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of
the economy, will increase 2.1 percent this year and next, down
from the previous forecast of 2.8 percent, according to the
survey. Auto sales will total 12.6 million this year, according
to the survey.  Spending on home construction will drop 1.6 percent through
the fourth quarter, compared with a prior forecast for a 0.9
percent increase.  Home prices , as measured by the  Federal
Housing Finance Agency ’s index, will decline 2 percent in the
fourth quarter from the same three months last year.  Payrolls will increase 124,100 a month on average this
year, down from the prior estimate of 190,300 workers, the
survey showed. Unemployment will average 9 percent in 2011,
higher than the 8.7 percent projection in the prior survey.  While it may be a source of strength for the economy, the
economists also lowered their estimates for business investment
in equipment and software by 2.7 percentage points. They project
it will expand 9.2 percent in the fourth quarter from a year
earlier.  Cost of Living  The cost of living in the U.S., as measured by the
consumer-price index, will rise 3.1 percent in the 12 months
ended in December, up from 2.8 percent forecast in the last
survey. The  Federal Reserve ’s preferred inflation measure, which
excludes food and energy, will advance 1.8 percent by the end of
the year, compared with the previous estimate of 1.6 percent.  Fifty-two NABE members responded to the survey, conducted
Aug. 10-24. The National Association for Business Economics,
founded in 1959, is the professional organization for people who
use economics in their work.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  