-- 
Caliper Life Sciences Sued by Investor Over $600 Million PerkinElmer Sale

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-09-12T21:33:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/caliper-life-sciences-sued-by-investor-over-600-million-perkinelmer-sale.html
Caliper Life Sciences Inc., the
maker of medical-testing products that is being acquired by
 PerkinElmer Inc. (PKI)  for $600 million, was sued by an investor who
contends she isn’t getting enough for her shares.  Waltham, Massachusetts-based PerkinElmer’s $10.50-per-share
offer doesn’t provide shareholders with “adequate or fair value
for their common stock,” Betty Greenberg, a Caliper investor,
said in her  Delaware  Chancery Court suit.  The offer “reflects an inadequate premium to the trading
price of the company’s common stock given that Caliper has
promising revenue growth,” Greenberg’s lawyers said in the
suit, filed today.  PerkinElmer officials made their offer for Hopkinton,
Massachusetts-based Caliper Sept. 8, saying it provided a 42
percent premium over Caliper’s closing price in the previous
day’s trading. Caliper makes DNA sequencing equipment and other
laboratory products.  Peter F. McAree, Caliper’s chief financial officer, didn’t
immediately return a call for comment on the suit.  PerkinElmer, which makes equipment for genetic screening
and environmental testing, is seeking to buy its competitor to
expand its business. PerkinElmer has acquired at least 5 other
companies so far this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Other Offers Discouraged  In the lawsuit, lawyers for Greenberg contend that
Caliper’s stock has risen about 121 percent over the last year
“despite the recent downturn in the global economy.”  In addition to selling out too cheaply, Caliper’s directors
also wrongfully allowed PerkinElmer’s lawyers to structure the
buyout in a way that discourages other offers, according to the
suit.  The proposed buyout contains a provision barring the
company from soliciting competing offers and forcing it to end
any on-going negotiations with prospective suitors, according to
the suit. PerkinElmer also has a right to match any higher bids.  The case is Greenberg v.  Caliper Life Sciences Inc. (CALP) ,
CA6853, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 