-- 
California Bill Favors Solar Panels, Excludes Thermal Plants

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-09-12T17:19:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/california-bill-favors-solar-panels-thermal-left-out-in-cold.html
California  Governor  Jerry Brown  is
expected to sign a bill that simplifies the permitting process
for solar photovoltaic projects and may prompt developers to
reconsider solar-thermal plants, which aren’t included in the
legislation.  According to Senate Bill 267, which Brown has until Nov. 9
to sign, photovoltaic projects will no longer be required to
demonstrate adequate water supplies. Wind farms are also
included in the bill.  Falling photovoltaic prices have made them less expensive
than solar-thermal systems, which focus the sun’s rays to create
steam that drives a turbine and generates electricity.
Eliminating the paperwork will shave as much as six months from
the approval process. Three California solar-thermal projects
have switched to photovoltaic panels, which convert sunlight
into electricity, and more may follow suit.  “There’s the potential for more of these solar thermal
plants to go PV,” said Allan Marks, a project finance attorney
at Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy in  Los Angeles . “The
operating costs of PV are less, so lenders worry less about the
downside risk.”  A notable exception is  BrightSource Energy Inc. , which
received $1.6 billion in U.S. Energy Department loan guarantees
to build a 392-megawatt solar-thermal plant. When completed in
2013, it may be the world’s largest.  Intentionally Excluded  Solar-thermal plants consume more water than photovoltaic,
and were intentionally left out of the legislation, said
California Senator Michael Rubio, a Democrat from East
Bakersfield who wrote the bill. “We wanted to start with two
areas known to not use a lot of water,” he said in an
interview.  The changes may prompt some developers to eschew solar-
thermal projects, Rubio said. “This particular bill will be
another tool to assess what’s economical for the state.”  Brown supports renewable energy in California, he said, and
will likely sign the legislation, which reached his desk on
Sept. 6 after passing the Assembly and Senate with veto-proof
majorities. The governor’s office doesn’t comment on pending
legislation, spokesman Evan Westrup said today.  Under the bill, projects that use less than 75 acre-feet of
water a year, enough for about 500 homes, will qualify for the
exclusion, which will eliminate about six months of paperwork,
according to data compiled by Rubio’s office.  BrightSource said its Ivanpah plant will consume about 100
acre-feet of water annually. The Oakland, California-based
company said April 22 it plans to raise as much as $250 million
through an initial share sale to fund the construction of
additional thermal plants.  Switching to Photovoltaic  Other developers are backing away from the technology,
which is sometimes called concentrated solar.  Germany ’s  Solar
Millennium AG (S2M) , which uses solar-thermal technology, said Aug. 18
it will use photovoltaic panels at the first 500-megawatt phase
of a planned 1,000-megawatt plant near Blythe, California.  The change was largely motivated by improved lending
conditions and access to cheaper photovoltaic panels, said
Susanne Krebs, a spokeswoman for the Erlangen-based company.  “We can produce higher margins in the U.S. by switching to
PV,” she said in a phone interview. “We may go back to
concentrated solar for the second phase.”  Prices for solar cells, the main component in photovoltaic
panels, have dropped 38 percent this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Thermal Plants  Developers have proposed at least 40 solar-thermal plants
in the U.S. with total capacity of more than 7 gigawatts, or
about seven typical nuclear reactors, according to New Energy
Finance.  K Road Power Holdings LLC purchased the 663.5 megawatt
Calico project near Barstow, California, from NTR Plc’s Tessera
Solar in December. On Feb. 16, Tessera sold its proposed 709-
megawatt Imperial Valley project to AES Corp. and a partner.
Both developers plan to shift from solar-thermal to
photovoltaic.  “This is the kind of streamlining we need to reduce
costs,” said Arno Harris, chief executive officer of San
Francisco-based Recurrent Energy, a unit of Sharp Corp. that
builds photovoltaic plants. He said that not documenting a
project’s water resources will save as much as $50,000.  “Any permitting process the solar industry doesn’t need to
go through will speed up project realization times, which is a
good thing,” Krebs said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  