-- 
Cameron Urges New Start With Russia After Litvinenko Murder

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 
2011-09-12T14:07:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/cameron-urges-a-fresh-start-in-russia-relations-after-litvinenko-killing.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron ,
the first British leader to visit Russia since the 2006 murder
in  London  of dissident Russian agent  Alexander Litvinenko , urged
the two countries to cooperate over shared economic interests.  “The fact is that the two governments don’t agree,”
Cameron told reporters in Moscow during a joint press conference
with Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev . “We haven’t changed our
position, and the Russians haven’t changed their position. I
don’t believe that means we have to freeze the entire
relationship.”  Cameron’s visit marks the first contact between a British
leader and Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin since Putin,
then the president, parted from  Tony Blair  on bad terms in 2007
over the Litvinenko murder. In a letter to the Sunday Times
newspaper yesterday, four former U.K. foreign secretaries urged
Cameron to confront the Russians over “hostility” toward
journalists and business.  Among corporate leaders joining Cameron in Moscow were BP
Chief Executive Officer Robert Dudley,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) 
Chief Executive Officer Peter Voser,  Xavier Rolet , chief
executive officer of  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE) , and Simon Robertson, chairman of  Rolls-Royce Group Plc. (RR/)   Resource-Rich, Services-Light  “Russia is resource-rich and services-light, Britain is
the opposite,” Cameron said earlier in a speech to students.
“In fact, Britain is already one of the largest foreign direct
investors in Russia. And Russian companies already account for
about a quarter of all foreign initial public offerings on the
London Stock Exchange.”  Cameron said deals valued at 215 million pounds ($340
million) were signed during his one-day visit to Moscow,
including store expansion by  Kingfisher Plc (KGF)  and a venture
between Rolls-Royce, the world’s second-largest aircraft-engine
maker, and Rosatom Corp.,  Russia ’s government-owned nuclear
holding company.  In their letter to the Sunday Times yesterday, the former
foreign secretaries -- David Miliband, Malcolm Rifkind, Jack Straw and Margaret Beckett -- asked Cameron to raise the 2006
murder of Litvinenko, the imprisonment in Russia of the oil
billionaire,  Mikhail Khodorkovsky , and his business partner,
 Platon Lebedev , and the death in custody of Sergei Magnitsky, an
anti-corruption lawyer.  Polonium-210  Litvinenko, a Kremlin critic who died in November 2006
after being poisoned with the radioactive isotope polonium-210,
blamed Putin for the murder in a death-bed statement, an
accusation the Kremlin called “absurd.” Relations between the
two countries have been strained since then.  Russia refused to hand over an ex-KGB bodyguard, Andrei Lugovoi, who is wanted in Britain for Litvinenko’s murder,
because the country’s constitution forbids the extradition of
Russian citizens.  “That will never happen, no matter what,” Medvedev said
about surrendering Russian citizens during the joint briefing
with Cameron. “We too have various questions on how some
decisions are being carried out on British territory, but we
don’t talk about it.”  Russia has unsuccessfully sought the extradition of Chechen
separatist leader Akhmed Zakayev, one-time billionaire  Boris Berezovsky  and other businessmen accused of fraud, many of whom
were granted asylum in the U.K.  ‘No Reason’  The differences between the two countries are “no reason
to dramatize the situation,” Medvedev said. “What’s most
important is not to allow for this to negatively reflect on the
overall trend of our relations.”  The dispute over Litvinenko sparked the expulsion of four
Russian and four U.K. diplomats and Russia’s closure of U.K.
cultural offices outside Moscow. The U.K. also froze cooperation
with Russia’s Federal Security Service, the domestic successor
to the KGB.  Tony Brenton, who was U.K. ambassador to Russia from 2004
to 2008, said the Litvinenko affair remains “unfinished
business” that still bedevils relations between the two
countries unlike Russia’s ties with Germany or  Italy .  ‘Political Difficulties’  “We have had more political difficulties, without a
doubt,” Brenton said in a phone interview last week.  British mergers and acquisitions in Russia slumped to $346
million last year, compared with $428 million for German
companies and down from a peak of $2.1 billion in 2007, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The value of U.S. deals surged to
$5.7 billion last year from $1.2 billion in 2007, including
PepsiCo Inc.’s $3.8 billion purchase of a majority stake in OAO
Wimm-Bill-Dann in December.  Cameron said U.K. companies needed more assurances about
the rule of law in Russia to encourage them to invest.  “They need to know that they can go to a court confident
that a contract will be enforced objectively and that their
assets and premises won’t be unlawfully taken away from them,”
he said.  The British leader’s trip comes less than a fortnight after
Russian officials’ raid on the Moscow offices of  BP Plc (BP/) , a day
after it was replaced by  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  in an Arctic oil
project with OAO Rosneft. Court bailiffs, accompanied by armed
men, were enforcing a $3 billion lawsuit.  BP, which in 2003 forged a joint venture with a group of
Russian billionaires with Putin’s blessing, has fallen out with
its partners in TNK-BP for the second time in three years. The
London-based company, which relies on the venture for a quarter
of its output, had to give up a deal to explore Arctic fields
with Rosneft after the billionaire partners sued to block it.  In 2006, Shell agreed to cede control of Sakhalin-2,
Russia’s only liquefied natural gas plant, to OAO Gazprom after
months of pressure from regulators.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in Moscow at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net 
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  