-- 
Canadian Dollar Strengthens From Level Below Parity as Risk Aversion Eases

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-09-12T21:07:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/canada-s-dollar-weakens-to-below-value-of-greenback-as-risk-aversion-rises.html
Canada ’s dollar gained from below
parity with its U.S. counterpart as  risk aversion  eased after an
Italian government official said Italy and  China  have had talks
about potential investments by the Asian nation in the euro
region’s third-largest economy.  The Canadian currency rose versus most of its major peers
as U.S. stocks rallied. Earlier it touched its weakest level
since January in volatile trading as investors sought refuge in
the greenback on concern  Greece  is moving closer to default.  “That turned the market around,” said  Fabian Eliasson ,
head of U.S. currency sales at Mizuho Financial Group Inc., by
phone today from  New York , referring to speculation on China and
Italy. “Stock markets turned on that and went into positive
territory. The Canadian dollar and stocks have been fairly
correlated. It needs global growth to perform.”  Canada’s currency rose 0.4 percent to 99.27 per  U.S. dollar 
at 5 p.m. in Toronto after dropping earlier as much as 0.6
percent to C$1.0027, the weakest level since Jan. 31. It closed
on Sept. 9 at 99.67. The currency was last on a one-for-one
level with the greenback on Aug. 9. One Canadian dollar
purchases $1.0074.  One-month implied volatility on the  currency pair  reached
11.6 percent today, the highest level since Aug. 15.  Italian officials have held talks with Chinese counterparts
about potential investments in the Mediterranean country, an
Italian government official said.  The purchase of Italian bonds by China was not the focus of
the talks, which took place in the past few weeks, the official
said on condition of anonymity. A spokesman for Italian Finance
Minister  Giulio Tremonti  declined to comment.  Greek Contagion  The Canadian currency, nicknamed the loonie, weakened
earlier versus the U.S. dollar as stocks fell amid concern
Greece’s debt crisis may spread to Italy and  Spain . The euro
reached the lowest level since 2001 against the yen on
speculation German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  is preparing for a
Greek default.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index ended the day up 0.7
percent after earlier falling as much as 1.6 percent. The  MSCI
World (MXWO)  Index of stocks declined 1.1 percent after earlier losing
2.4 percent.  Crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, fluctuated. October
futures fell as much as 2.6 percent to $85 a barrel in New York
and rose as much as 2 percent to $88.95.  Bonds Fall  Government bonds  fell, pushing up yields from record lows
they reached earlier. Ten-year note yields rose three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 2.15 percent after earlier
dropping to 2.089 percent, the lowest level since at least 1989.
Two-year note yields climbed 10 basis points to 0.88 percent
after earlier tumbling to a record 0.76 percent.  Canada will sell C$3.5 billion ($3.51 billion) in two-year
notes on Sept. 14, according to a central bank statement. The
1.5 percent debt will mature in November 2013.  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said he won’t back more
fiscal stimulus unless something “dramatic” occurs in the
global economy.  “What’s been done before can be done again if it’s
essential, but it’s not what we expect,” the finance minister
said. “What we expect is continuing modest growth in the
Canadian economy through the end of this year and in 2012.”  Flaherty declined to comment specifically on the Canadian
dollar and its dip below parity.  “These are challenging economic times; we’re going to see
some volatility,” he said.  Canada’s net international debt increased for a ninth
straight quarter in the April-June period, rising by C$5.1
billion to C$217.8 billion, as foreigners continued to buy
Canadian bonds,  Statistics Canada  said in Ottawa today.  Risk-Reversal Rate  The premium charged for the right to buy the U.S. currency
versus the Canadian dollar in one month over contracts to sell
reached 2.2 percentage points today, the highest level since
Aug. 15, risk-reversal rates show. The rate was as high this
year as 2.61 percentage points last month and as low as 0.67
percentage points in March, according to Bloomberg data.  Canada’s dollar depreciated 1.1 percent last week, the
second straight five-day decline. The Bank of Canada on Sept. 7
kept its target rate for overnight lending between commercial
banks at 1 percent, where it’s been for a year. Policy makers
said there’s less need for a rate increase as  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis and a slow U.S. economic rebound hobble
the global recovery.  The U.S. consumes about three quarters of Canada’s exports.
The two nations generate $1 trillion annually in bilateral trade
and investment, and the export of goods to the U.S. accounts for
about a fifth of Canada’s gross domestic product, according to
the Web site of the U.S. Embassy in Ottawa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  