-- 
Cargill Announces Second Ground Turkey Recall After USDA Finds Salmonella

-- B y   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 
2011-09-12T00:37:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/cargill-announces-second-ground-turkey-recall-after-usda-finds-salmonella.html
Cargill Inc. recalled ground turkey
from a plant in  Arkansas  for the second time in two months,
after a U.S. government review discovered a sample contaminated
with salmonella.  Cargill Value Added Meats Retail, a unit of Wichita,
Kansas-based Cargill Meat Solutions, said yesterday in a
statement it would recall 185,000 pounds of meat produced by a
Springdale, Arkansas, plant in August. A Department of
Agriculture test sample “yielded low levels” of the same
salmonella strain that triggered the earlier Aug. 3 recall,
Cargill said.  “Out of an abundance of caution, we are acting quickly in
response to USDA’s sample testing,” said Steve Willardsen,
president of Cargill’s turkey-processing business, said in the
statement. “There are no known illnesses associated with this
positive sample.”  The meat was distributed through retailers nationally under
the Honeysuckle White, HEB and Kroger brand names, according to
the statement. Michael Martin, a Cargill spokesman, said in an
e-mail that the ground turkey produced at the Springdale plant
is generally sold at stores “in the western two-thirds of the
U.S., but could potentially be found anywhere.”  Earlier Recall  Cargill last month recalled 35.7 million pounds of ground
turkey and halted production at the Springdale plant because of
possible contamination from the salmonella Heidelberg bacteria.
An outbreak of salmonella Heidelberg was linked to one death and
77 illnesses in 26 states as of Aug. 1, according to the  Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention .  The initial symptoms of salmonella poisoning are usually
diarrhea, fever, and abdominal cramps. Most people recover
without treatment. In some cases, hospitalization is necessary,
and an infection can be deadly if not treated promptly with
antibiotics. The Heidelberg strain of the bacteria is antibiotic
resistant.  Turkey production at the Arkansas plant will remain
suspended “until additional measures can be identified,
approved by USDA, then implemented, which is similar to the
process we previously employed when working with the agency,”
Willardsen said.  Minneapolis-based Cargill Inc. produces food, and trades
grains and other commodities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Keoun in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  