-- 
Obama Looks to Limit Tax Breaks for Wealthy

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n ,   S t e v e n   S l o a n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 
2011-09-13T18:12:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/carried-interest-to-help-pay-for-jobs-bill.html
President  Barack Obama  asked
lawmakers to again consider increasing taxes for high earners,
private equity managers and oil and gas companies to pay for his
$447 billion job-creation package, running into Republican
resistance along the way.  The bill Obama sent to Capitol Hill yesterday included
previously proposed revenue-raising provisions, such as a cap on
deductions for upper-income taxpayers, which have failed to
advance in Congress in recent years. The administration also
proposed new ideas that would change longstanding  tax policy .
Obama wants to curb the amount of interest from municipal bonds
that top earners could exclude from their income and require
those taxpayers to count some of their employer-provided health
insurance as taxable income.  Obama has proposed raising $18 billion by taxing the
carried interest, or profits-based compensation, of private
equity managers, real estate investors and venture capitalists
as ordinary income, instead of more lightly taxed capital gains.
That would affect companies including  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and
KKR & Co.  The release of the plan sets up a political fight with
Republicans in Congress that will frame Obama’s strategy for a
re-election campaign next year.  Revenue Raisers  Obama would use the revenue in part to offset the cost of
cutting the payroll tax for employers and middle-class taxpayers
along with infrastructure programs. Republicans, who control the
 House of Representatives , have signaled they may be willing to
support some of the tax cuts while expressing skepticism about
Obama’s spending and tax increase proposals.  “If the president is truly interested in growing the
economy and putting Americans back to work, then he’ll leave the
temporary proposals and the half-measures -- and the tax hikes -
- aside,”  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, said on the Senate floor today.  House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  said Republicans won’t
accept tax increases as part of a plan for economic growth.  “My sense is that we need to work very hard to try and
peel off the things that we can actually agree on,” the
Virginia Republican told reporters today.  Obama would sign a bill even if it contained only some
provisions of his proposal, White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said.  If Congress were to “send a portion of the American Jobs
Act, the president would of course not veto it,” Carney told
reporters traveling with Obama to an event to promote it in
 Ohio . “He would sign it and then he would return to press the
Congress to get the job done.”  Deduction Cap  The biggest revenue-raising proposal in the jobs package --
about $400 billion -- would cap at 28 percent itemized
deductions and some exclusions for individuals earning more than
$200,000 a year and married couples earning more than $250,000.  Andrew Schulz, vice president for legal and public policy
at the Council on Foundations in Arlington,  Virginia , drew a
distinction between charitable contributions that don’t directly
benefit a taxpayer and deductions for items such as mortgage
interest.  “This is the very last moment in time that you would think
it would be productive to limit the funding of the charitable
sector,” he said in an interview.  Municipal bond income is included in the cap under the new
proposal, marking the administration’s first attempt to curb
that benefit. That could hurt demand for state and local
government securities, said lobbyists who work in the public
finance sector.  Earlier Proposals  The administration has previously proposed caps that
focused only on itemized deductions, meaning that the highest-
income taxpayers would receive a smaller federal break on their
mortgage interest, state and local taxes and charitable
contributions.  The new version also imposes a limitation on so-called
above-the-line deductions and certain exclusions, including
income earned outside the U.S. and employer-provided health
insurance. Affected above-the-line deductions include breaks for
moving expenses, higher education expenses and contributions to
health savings accounts. The $400 billion revenue estimate is 25
percent higher than the administration’s $321 billion estimate
for the itemized deduction cap, indicating the scope of the
expanded proposal.  Industry Reaction  Industry groups affected by the revenue-raising proposals
said they plan to lobby heavily against them.  “Proposals to raise taxes on carried interest have
consistently been rejected for over four years because raising
taxes on investments would only sideline employers and investors
and create further uncertainty in an already struggling
economy,” Steve Judge, interim president and chief executive
officer of the Private Equity Growth Capital Council, the
industry’s Washington-based trade group, said in a statement.  The oil and gas industry would face $40 billion in new
taxes over the next decade. Obama’s budget proposal included
limits on the industry’s ability to claim domestic manufacturing
deductions for drilling. Companies including  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) 
and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  have opposed the administration’s
proposal.  Another $3 billion would come from changing the
depreciation schedule for corporate jets to match the longer
schedule associated with commercial airliners.  The proposal would have $467 billion worth of savings and
higher revenue, more than offsetting the cost of cutting payroll
taxes and spending on infrastructure and state aid, White House
budget director Jack Lew said. A congressional supercommittee
charged with finding long-term deficit reductions can accept
Obama’s proposal to pay for the package or come up with its own
plan later this year, Lew said.  Setting Priorities  “We’ve got to decide what our priorities are,” Obama said
as he released the legislative text yesterday. “Do we keep tax
loopholes for  oil companies  -- or do we put teachers back to
work? Should we keep tax breaks for millionaires and
billionaires -- or should we invest in education and technology
and infrastructure, all the things that are going to help us
out-innovate and out-educate and out-build other countries in
the future?”  Gene Sperling , director of the White House National
Economic Council, said the administration wants Congress to pass
the proposal “in its entirety” and not separate the offsets,
spending and tax cuts.  If only parts of it were passed by Congress, Obama would
view that as “partial progress,” and that he would “come back
and fight and fight to get the other components,” Sperling told
reporters after defending the jobs program during a speech today
at the American Action Forum, a Washington-based research group.  Supercommittee’s Role  Obama’s jobs plan will likely put the supercommittee in an
even deeper hole because it would have to come up with
additional money to prevent the administration’s proposal from
widening the deficit.  The 12-member panel faces an uphill battle to produce a
plan to cut at least $1.2 trillion from the federal budget by
Nov. 23. If the panel doesn’t act, or if its plan is rejected by
Congress, an automatic $1.2 trillion in cuts would take effect
in 2013.  The centerpiece of Obama’s plan to boost hiring and
economic growth is a cut in the payroll tax, which covers the
first $106,800 in earnings and is evenly split between employers
and employees. Obama would reduce the portion paid by workers
next year to 3.1 percent from 4.2 percent now. The rate was
reduced by two percentage points under the terms of a tax deal
reached in December. That cut is set to expire Dec. 31, which
would push the  tax rate  back to 6.2 percent.  Businesses would get a payroll tax cut for their first $5
million in wages and would pay no payroll taxes on the first $50
million of incremental wages in 2012, compared with 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  