-- 
Carry Trades Lose Most in a Year as Stimulus No Barrier to Stronger Dollar

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-09-12T17:33:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/carry-trades-lose-most-in-a-year-as-stimulus-no-barrier-to-stronger-dollar.html
Slowing economic growth around the
world is punishing investors who bet on Australian and Brazilian
assets using money borrowed in dollars and yen with the biggest
losses in more than a year.  A UBS AG index tracking the performance of carry trades
where investors sell currencies with low  interest rates  to buy
ones in 24 markets with higher yields has tumbled 2.6 percent
this month after losing 2.2 percent in August and 3.1 percent in
July, the biggest back-to-back monthly drop since May and June
2010. The dollar has appreciated 6.5 percent against a basket of
nine developed-nation peers from its low this year on Aug. 1,
with the yen up more than 7.3 percent from the same day,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.  Traders are betting that falling commodities, declining
stocks, sluggish U.S. growth and  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis
will diminish the appeal of currencies that benefited earlier
this year from higher interest rates. The  Federal Reserve ’s
target rate of zero to 0.25 percent and the  Bank of Japan ’s zero
to 0.1 percent overnight lending rate compare with Norway’s 2.25
percent,  Australia ’s 4.75 percent and Brazil’s 12 percent.  “ Risk aversion  is a main driving force in the market,”
 Ian Stannard , London-based head of European currency strategy at
Morgan Stanley, said in a telephone interview on Sept. 6. “The
yen and the dollar are likely to benefit from this demand.”  Losing Bets  Carry trades gained 2.1 percent from the end of January
through April on optimism the economic recovery was gathering
strength. Australia’s dollar and Norway’s krone soared 10
percent against the greenback in the period, and Brazil’s real
rose 5.8 percent. They appreciated at least 4.7 percent versus
the yen.  The bets are now losing as growth sputters, with investors
seeking safety in the dollar, the world’s reserve currency, and
yen.  Japan ’s current-account surplus means the nation doesn’t
depend on foreign lenders to finance its budget deficits.  U.S. payrolls were unchanged last month, the Labor
Department in  Washington  said Sept. 2.  Germany ’s economy,
Europe’s biggest, grew 0.1 percent last quarter from 1.3 percent
in the first three months of the year, the Federal Statistics
Office in Wiesbaden said Aug. 16. The Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development said Sept. 8 the expansion for the
Group of Seven nations will “stay weak” in the second half.  Gains Reverse  Investing the proceeds of yen loans in Australian dollars
lost 4.2 percent in July and August, after a 1.8 percent gain in
the second quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Buying Canadian securities with currency borrowed in U.S.
dollars resulted in a 1.3 percent loss, after a 1 percent gain
in the three months through June.  After rising to a 2011 high of 509.89 in April, the UBS V24
Carry Index dropped to 453.36 on Sept. 9, the lowest since March
2009, when the Japanese economy was mired in a recession and the
Fed began buying Treasuries in an initial round of so-called
quantitative easing to stimulate growth.  The dollar rose 1.7 percent last week against the so-called
Aussie and reached $1.0286 per Australian dollar today, the
strongest since Aug. 12. It bought 5.5465 Norwegian kroner last
week, up from 5.3970 on Sept. 2, and climbed 2 percent against
 Brazil ’s real. The yen jumped 2.1 percent versus the South
African rand and was 2.1 percent stronger at 63.794 to the  New
Zealand dollar .  Dollar Gains  The dollar and the yen rose against most major currencies
today. The greenback climbed 4 percent against the euro last
week and reached $1.3495 against the shared currency today, the
strongest since Feb. 16. The euro tumbled to 103.90 yen, the
least since June 2001, before trading at 104.90 as of 1:30 p.m.
in  New York .  The dollar posted its biggest two-day gain in four months
against the euro on Sept. 8 and 9 after European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said “downside risks” to the
region’s economy have intensified. The comments spurred
speculation the central bank will lower rates after boosting
them two times this year, to 1.5 percent.  Traders also pushed the 17-nation currency lower versus the
dollar as credit-default swaps signaled a more than 90 percent
probability that  Greece  will fail to meet its debt commitments,
and Juergen Stark’s resignation from the ECB’s executive board
exposed the policy divisions aggravating the region’s sovereign-
debt crisis.  Price Swings  Wider price swings are also hurting the carry trade because
they make trading strategies less predictable. The JPMorgan
Chase & Co. implied volatility index for the global  currency
market  rose to 14 today from 10 on July 7. The index is up 36
percent this quarter, the most since it jumped 48 percent in the
final three months of 2008, the year Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. collapsed.  “It’s starting to look like the dollar is going to benefit
from all this,” Stephen Jen, managing partner at SLJ Macro
Partners LLP in  London , said in a telephone interview on Sept.
6. “Investors’ favorites such as the Aussie dollar and the
Brazilian real are suffering. The more risk-averse we become,
the more supported the dollar will be,” said Jen, a former
managing director at hedge fund BlueGold Capital Management LLP
and at Morgan Stanley.  Too Pessimistic  Gains in the dollar and yen may evaporate should investors’
expectations for a U.S. recession prove too pessimistic,
according to John Normand, global head of currency strategy at
JPMorgan. Even though the recovery is losing momentum,
economists don’t forecast that U.S. gross domestic product will
shrink after the Fed pledged to keep interest rates at about
zero through mid-2013.  After weaker than forecast growth of 0.4 percent in the
first quarter and 1 percent in the second, the U.S. will
probably expand 1.6 percent this year and 2.2 percent in 2012,
according to Bloomberg surveys of economists. Analysts predicted
3.2 percent and 3.3 percent in Bloomberg surveys in February.  “If a recession fails to grip, dollar weakness will resume
quickly and broadly,” London-based Normand said on Sept. 9.
“While stagnation looks assured, recession isn’t.”  Global stocks are signaling a slowdown. The MSCI World
Index fell 15 percent since June 30, after a 4 percent gain in
the first half. IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s U.S. Dollar
Index, which measures the currency against the euro, yen, pound,
Swiss franc, Canada dollar and Swedish krona, has climbed 4.5
percent since then, after sliding 5.8 percent in the first half.  Norway  Rates  Norway’s central bank left its benchmark deposit rate
unchanged on Aug. 10, when most economists surveyed by Bloomberg
had expected an increase to 2.5 percent. A Credit Suisse Group
AG index based on swaps signaled a 100 percent chance
Australia’s central bank will cut rates by at least 25 basis
points at its Oct. 4 meeting after leaving them unchanged on
Sept. 6.  “Over the next three months, we should see a gradual
dollar recovery,” Ken Dickson, investment director of
currencies at Standard Life Investments in Edinburgh, which
manages the equivalent of $251 billion, said in a telephone
interview on Sept. 6. The Australian dollar is “still
vulnerable to further weakness,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  