-- 
McGraw-Hill Will Divide in Two Following Jana Challenge

-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y   a n d   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 
2011-09-12T20:49:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/mcgraw-hill-to-split-into-two-companies.html
McGraw-Hill Cos. will split into
two companies focusing on global markets and textbook
publishing, under pressure from activist investor Jana Partners
LLC and after scrutiny of ratings by its  Standard & Poor’s  unit.  The transaction may be completed by the end of 2012 through
a tax-free spinoff of the education unit, the New York-based
company said today in a statement. McGraw-Hill Markets will
include S&P and J.D. Power and Associates and be led by Chief
Executive Officer Harold “Terry” McGraw III.  McGraw-Hill, whose S&P division played a central role in
the 2008 global financial crisis and last month downgraded U.S.
sovereign debt, began a strategic review last year of the
company’s businesses. On Aug. 22, Jana Partners, a  New York- 
based hedge fund, proposed a plan to break up the company after
education revenue fell for three straight quarters.  “It’s a smart move for enhancing value,”  Peter Appert , an
analyst at Piper Jaffray & Co. in  San Francisco , said of McGraw-
Hill’s plan. “There’s more opportunity for them as two focused
businesses.”  While Jana and the Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan proposed
McGraw-Hill separate into four parts -- S&P, the S&P index
business, information & media, and education -- McGraw said two
was the right number.  The company consulted with many investors and was well along
in its review when Jana made its presentation, McGraw, 63, said
in an interview.  ‘11th Hour’  “When you’re talking about Jana, we were in the 11th hour
when that came along,” McGraw said. “We’re not doing this for
one or two people, we are looking at a broader universe of
appeal.”  McGraw-Hill rose $1.54, or 4 percent, to $40.26 at 4 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has
declined 29 percent in five years, compared with a drop of 11
percent for the  S&P 500 Index .  The company also said it will speed up its stock repurchase
program and reduce costs across its businesses.  Jana and Ontario Teachers’ will review the proposed split,
the shareholders said in a joint e-mailed statement.  “The separation, cost-cutting program and accelerated
buyback will all be vital steps in reversing years of
underperformance at McGraw-Hill, and are critical parts of what
we were seeking for shareholders,” the shareholders said.  CEO Search  As part of the split, McGraw-Hill said it will seek to cut
corporate expenses and administrative and technology costs off a
base of more than $1 billion, without specifying the extent of
the reduction. The company is also searching for a CEO for
McGraw-Hill Education, which expects to have revenue of about
$2.4 billion this year.  McGraw-Hill Markets will include Platts, a provider of
information and indexes in energy, petrochemicals and metals.
The new company anticipates 2011 revenue of about $4 billion.
McGraw-Hill said earlier this year that it would sell its
broadcasting group because of the unit’s limited growth
prospects.  McGraw-Hill will accelerate the pace of its share buyback
plan to $1 billion for the year, with $540.6 million repurchased
year-to-date.  On Aug. 5, S&P sent shockwaves through the markets with its
decision to downgrade U.S. credit to AA+ from the top AAA
rating. Rather than cause a selloff in Treasuries, the move
boosted demand for the debt, driving 10-year note yields to a
then record low. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  slammed the
move, as did Berkshire Hathaway Inc. CEO  Warren Buffett , who
said the U.S. should be rated “quadruple-A.”  Founded in 1888  McGraw-Hill said Aug. 22 that S&P President Deven Sharma
will step down at yearend and be replaced by Citibank NA Chief
Operating Officer Douglas Peterson.  McGraw-Hill, founded in 1888 by McGraw’s great-grandfather,
James H. McGraw, earned about 87 percent of its $358.8 million
in operating income in the second quarter from S&P and its
financial-information unit. The company has been publishing
college textbooks since 1927, and it formed the TV unit in 1972.  In 2009, McGraw-Hill agreed to sell BusinessWeek magazine
to Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News.  Jana Partners, which manages about $3 billion, held a 5.2
percent stake in McGraw-Hill, together with the  Ontario
Teachers’ Pension Plan , according to an Aug. 1 regulatory
filing.  McGraw-Hill “has consistently underperformed its potential
and traded at a sizable discount,” Jana said in an Aug. 22
filing that showed an increased stake of 5.6 percent. The
education unit is a “drag” on the company’s value, it said.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Evercore Partners Inc. advised
McGraw-Hill.  (The company held a conference call at 8:30 a.m. New York
time. Go to:  http://www.mcgraw-hill/investor_relations  for a
replay.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net ;
Oliver Staley in New York at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  