-- 
Colfax Reaches Agreement to Buy Charter, Valuing Company at $2.42 Billion

-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 
2011-09-12T15:52:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/charter-in-negotiations-after-colfax-raises-takeover-offer-to-2-4-billion.html
     Sept. 12 (Bloomberg) --  Colfax Corp. (CFX)  agreed to buy  Charter
International Plc (CHTR) , Europe’s biggest welding equipment maker, for
1.53 billion pounds ($2.42 billion), trumping  Melrose Plc (MRO) ’s bid.  Shareholders will receive 730 pence a share in cash and
0.1241 of a new Colfax share for each Charter equivalent, giving
a total price of 910 pence, Fulton, Maryland-based Colfax said
in a statement. The offer, recommended by Charter, is 48 percent
higher than the stock’s closing price on June 28, the day prior
to Melrose’s preliminary proposal.  Colfax, a U.S. maker of pumps and valves, and Melrose have
been battling for control of Charter as they seek to add
businesses such as air- and gas-handling equipment. Colfax Chief
Executive Officer Clay Kiefaber said the purchase will
complement the company’s fluid-handling equipment range, and
also speed expansion into emerging markets including  Brazil ,
Russia, India and China. Charter is registered in Jersey and has
its headquarters in Dublin.  “This is a business with great brands and great
technology,” Kiefaber said in a telephone interview.  Colfax’s bid tops investment company Melrose’s earlier
sweetened 850 pence-a-share offer. Charter’s welding systems are
used by shipmakers and the energy industry, while oil and mining
companies use its air and gas handling equipment, which include
fans and compressors.  Purchase Choice  Charter shareholders can vary the percentage of stock or
cash they receive for the shares, the two companies said. Funds
that compare themselves to benchmarks such as the FTSE 350 index
may not want to hold U.S. shares, said David Larkam, an analyst
at Arden Partners who has a “buy” recommendation on Charter.  “Short-term, it’s the best offer on the table,” Larkam
said. “Long-term, I don’t know how many people will be able to
hold paper in U.S. companies.”  Charter rose 53 pence, or 6.6 percent, to 857 pence in
 London . The shares have risen 1.5 percent this year, giving the
company a market value of 1.43 billion pounds.  Colfax, which is seeking to buy a company five times its
size in sales, will fund the acquisition through an equity
issue, new debt facilities and existing cash. It expects credit
ratings of at least BB- after the transaction, Senior Vice
President Dan Pryor said in the interview. Ratings services
currently don’t rate its debt, he said.  Colfax said it will raise $805 million by selling stock to
existing shareholders and new investors including BDT Capital
Partners. Colfax also said it has $2.1 billion in commitments on
bank debt, arranged through  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  HSBC Bank USA .  Charter was advised by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , JPMorgan
Cazenove and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. (RBS)   To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in London at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  