-- 
Children Sap Their Fathers’ Testosterone Levels, Northwestern Study Shows

-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 
2011-09-12T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/children-sap-their-fathers-testosterone-levels.html
Dads who spend time with their
children have lower levels of testosterone than single guys,
according to a study that suggests family men experience a
biological shift that may awaken their nurturing side.  While higher testosterone is considered beneficial for
finding a partner, the male virility hormone drops once a stable
relationship is formed and slides again during child-rearing,
according to the study, published  today  in the Proceedings of
the  National Academy of Sciences . Researchers examined more than
600 men in the  Philippines  over about a five-year period.  The findings add to evidence that human males have evolved
in ways that “facilitate their role as fathers and caregivers
as a key component of reproductive success,” the researchers
said in the study. Testosterone appears to mediate the tradeoff
between mating and parenting in humans, they said.  “The men with the highest testosterone levels were more
likely to become fathers by the time we followed up with them
five years later,” said  Christopher Kuzawa , a study author and
an associate professor of anthropology at  Northwestern
University , in an interview. “Once they became fathers, their
testosterone plummeted, quite a bit, more than any of the other
groups.”  Testosterone is a hormone that promotes the development of
male reproductive tissue and helps muscle, bone and hair growth.
Previous studies have shown that testosterone levels at the high
end of a normal range are associated with lower amounts of blood
fats and cholesterol, obesity, glucose intolerance and diabetes.
The abuse of testosterone, which can be taken as a supplement,
is linked to increased risks of cardiovascular disease and
sudden death.  Tracking Changes  Researchers first measured testosterone of single men in
their early 20s who didn’t have children in 2005, then followed
up 4 1/2 years later. Participants who reported during the later
interview spending three hours or more with their children
during the day had the largest declines in hormone levels, the
study found.  Previous studies have shown that fathers in general have
lower testosterone levels than single men without children. The
prior research didn’t determine if men who started with lower
levels of the hormone were more likely to enter into stable
relationships and have children. The new study showed the
opposite, Kuzawa said.  “There’s a lot of folk ideas out there about what
testosterone is all about, but in the scientific community
there’s much less certainty about this,” he said. “It’s not
clear for instance that the decline in testosterone that we’re
showing is going to influence someone’s libido, or have major
effects in a lot of the things that men would care about.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 