-- 
China Builds Lead in Afghan Commodities, Adds Oil to Copper

-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 
2011-09-13T05:39:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/china-expands-lead-in-afghan-commodities-by-adding-oil-to-copper-mine-plan.html
China  National Petroleum Corp.
offered the highest royalty and a refinery to win Afghanistan’s
first oilfield auction last month, using a strategy that helped
Chinese companies gain access to African resources.  CNPC will pay 15 percent royalty on oil from three blocks
in northern Afghanistan and 30 percent corporate tax and also
build a refinery, Abdul Jalil Jumriany, policy director at the
mines ministry in Kabul, said by e-mail.  Australia ’s  Buccaneer
Energy Ltd. (BCC)  proposed 10 percent royalty and was second, he said.  The deal, to be completed in a month, will boost China’s
position as its neighbor’s biggest foreign investor after a
state company won the right in 2007 to mine the biggest copper
deposit in  Afghanistan  by pledging to build a coal mine, power
plant, smelter and railroad. In  Africa , producer of 12 percent
of the world’s crude, Chinese companies promised billions of
dollars in aid, investment and loans for energy supplies.  “China is certainly seeking resource security, but its
motives are broader,”  Deborah Brautigam , a Washington-based
 scholar and author  on Chinese-African relations, said in a Sept.
9 telephone interview. China’s state-owned companies are likely
pursuing Afghan deals “for commercial, strategic, political and
resource-security reasons all combined.”  Three calls to CNPC’s public relations department in
Beijing went unanswered. Mao Zefeng, a spokesman at unit
PetroChina Co., declined to comment when reached by telephone.  Amu Darya Basin  President  Hamid Karzai ’s cabinet late last month approved
the  mines ministry’s  decision to allow CNPC to drill for oil in
 three blocks  of the  Amu Darya basin , a geological zone that
extends into Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan.  While CNPC’s oil deal, for blocks that hold an estimated 80
million barrels, is relatively small, its win may give the
company an advantage in chasing bigger  Afghan reserves . The
Afghan-Tajik Basin, a geological zone in the northeast, is
estimated to hold  1.9 billion barrels  of undiscovered oil and
natural-gas liquids along with gas deposits equivalent to 1.5
billion barrels of oil, based on U.S. Geological Survey data.  The government will hold its next oilfield auction in the
area in February, Jumriany said.  A refinery is crucial for Afghanistan, which imports almost
all its fuels and has seen supplies halted by border closures
with  Iran  and  Pakistan . In January, Iran blocked as many as
1,900 fuel tanker trucks at its border for a month, forcing a
spike in transport and food prices across Afghanistan.  “The business case for a refinery is good,” Jumriany said.
Afghanistan needs large supplies of asphalt, refined from crude,
to pave thousands of kilometers of dirt track as modern roads.  Petroleum Demand  Afghanistan’s only working refinery, opened last year on
its northern border with Uzbekistan, has a capacity to produce
500 tons (3,650 barrels) of fuels a day, according to its owner,
the Kabul-based  Kam Group . The nation uses 46,000 barrels of
petroleum products each day, Jumriany said.  The size of the proposed refinery is part of negotiations
with CNPC that may lead to a final contract next month, Deputy
Mines Minister Nazir Ahmad Durrani said by telephone from Kabul.  While most foreign investors have hesitated to enter
Afghanistan because of the decade-long war, investments by CNPC
and the Metallurgical Corp. of China are of strategic importance
to the Chinese government. The oil blocks won by CNPC and the
Aynak copper deposit, south of Kabul, lie within 400 miles (640
kilometers) of China’s western frontier.  Developing and importing resources from across that border
will help accelerate economic development in its border province
of Xinjiang, according to Richard Weitz, political-military
analysis director at the  Hudson Institute , a policy research
organization in  Washington .  ‘Non-Commercial Terms’  China is eager to boost incomes in Xinjiang, where it has
faced riots and protests by ethnic Uighurs.  Tethys Petroleum Ltd. (TPL) , one of the rivals that CNPC outbid,
said it was unable to match the Chinese company and didn’t offer
to build a refinery.  “CNPC is the representative of a government and it was
able to offer terms that were non-commercial,” said Veronica Zhuvaghena, a spokeswoman for Tethys in  London .  Buccaneer Energy dropped out “a few months ago” after
making “an indicative offer,” Finance Director Dean Gallegos
said by telephone from Sydney, where the company is based.  Chinese state companies are not free to ignore commercial
concerns, said  Brautigam , author of ‘The Dragon’s Gift: The Real
Story of China in Africa’ and a professor at American
University’s School of International Service in Washington.
“Such companies mining copper in the  Democratic Republic  of
Congo built roads and ore-processing plants paid for by the
value of the copper,” she said.  Copper Mine  China Metallurgical won the right to mine the Aynak copper
deposit by offering to invest $2.9 billion, 70 percent more than
the second-place bidder,  Canada ’s Vancouver-based Hunter
Dickinson Inc., Afghan mines ministry figures show. That offer
was “about $1 billion too large,” Bob Schafer, vice president
of Hunter Dickinson, said at the time.  The offer included construction of a rail line, a 400-
megawatt power plant, a  coal mine  to fuel it and a smelter for
the copper. The rail line may run 800 kilometers, Zou Jianhui,
president of China Metallurgical unit MCC Tongsin Resources Ltd.,
said in an interview in Kabul in February.  Aynak is “is certainly Afghanistan’s biggest” planned
investment, Noorullah Delawari, president of the Afghanistan
Investment Support Agency, said in a phone interview from Kabul.
“China and  India  will be our biggest partners in developing
mineral resources for their economies,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net ;
James Rupert in  New Delhi  at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  