-- 
China Copper Treatment Charges Dropping, Barclays Says

-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 
2011-09-12T13:18:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/china-copper-treatment-charges-dropping-barclays-says-1-.html
Chinese copper treatment and
refining charges are declining, driven by “extremely poor
performance on the mine supply-side” and a lack of scrap
supply,  Barclays Capital  said in a report.  Charges that reached 31 cents a pound in May fell to as low
as 6 cents in the  spot market  this month, New York-based
Barclays analyst Nicholas Snowdon said today.  The fall in the charges is “adding to an increasingly
positive picture of the Chinese copper market,” the analyst
said. “While flat price performance certainly remains at the
mercy of macro sentiment in the short term, such signs of
strength in the fundamentals support a continued market
deficit.”  Copper for three-month delivery fell $129.50, or 1.5
percent, to $8,691.50 a metric ton by 2:11 p.m. on the London
Metal Exchange. Copper for December delivery declined 6.5 cents,
or 1.6 percent, to $3.937 a pound on the Comex in  New
York . The metal reached $3.905 a pound earlier, the lowest since
Aug. 11 on concern  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis may worsen.
Treatment and refining charges are the fees paid to smelters by
miners to turn ore into metal.  “With spot TC/RCs heading back to unattractive terms for
smelters, a likely secondary effect could well be that there is
greater constraint on refined production growth and hence
concentrate imports, going forwards,” Snowdon said, adding
this, in turn, could benefit refined imports.  Chinese Imports  Copper imports by  China  climbed for a third month in
August, the highest level since January, as buying of the metal
in London and selling in  Shanghai  increased ahead of an expected
rise of demand. Inbound shipments of the refined metal, copper
alloy and products increased 11 percent to 340,398 metric tons
from 306,626 tons in July, the customs officials said Sept. 10.  The consecutive month-on-month increases in refined
imports, combined with a halving in bonded warehouse stock
levels in the second quarter, “has offered solid indications of
destocking drawing to an end at a refined level,” Barclays
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in  London  at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Deane at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  