-- 
Chinese Property Prices to Decline in Next 12 Months, Shui On’s Lo Says

-- B y   R o b y n   M e r e d i t h
-- 
2011-09-12T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/chinese-property-prices-to-decline-in-next-12-months-shui-on-s-lo-says.html
China’s property prices may fall in
the next 12 to 18 months as banks curb loans to real estate
companies, which may slow development, Hong Kong billionaire
developer Vincent Lo said.  The government is pushing banks to hold back lending to
property firms as it attempts to cool the housing market, said
Lo, chairman of  Shui On Land Ltd. (272)  The developer received a
Chinese bank’s approval for a loan, which was withdrawn as the
lender had a policy change, he said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television.  “We believe maybe the market is going to go through a
tough time for another 12 to 18 months, and then I think it’s a
good time to go and buy something” when prices are lower, said
Lo, who’s known as “Mister Shanghai” after transforming
century-old homes into a pub and entertainment project the
city’s Xintiandi district.  China has expanded its property control measures this year,
raising down-payment requirements and  mortgage rates  to ease
gains in  home prices . The government said in July it will rein
in prices in smaller cities after limiting home purchases in
markets such as Beijing and  Shanghai .  The Shanghai-based developer has found a foreign bank for
the loan for one of its projects in China, Lo said, declining to
identify the development or the bank. Such cancelations are
“happening quite frequently” to other real estate developers
in the country, he added, referring to the Chinese lender which
withdrew the loan it had approved for the company.  ‘Tough Time’  “For local developers, I think they would be going through
a tough time right now,” Lo said. “That would bring the price
down.”  Chinese regulators have told banks to tighten lending for
real estate on concern credit risks will increase as the impact
of government curbs deepens in the next three to five months, a
person familiar with the matter said last month.  The property tycoon said he remains bullish on  China ’s
residential and commercial property markets in the long term
with more citizens moving into cities, creating demand for homes,
shops and office buildings. “Right now, the commercial
properties, if it is in a good location, good design, it will do
very well,” Lo said.  Shui On said in June it will spend about 8 billion yuan
($1.3 billion) to develop an office and restaurant precinct
under its Xintiandi brand near Shanghai’s smaller airport and
high-speed rail station.  Heaven and Earth  Xintiandi , which means New Heaven and Earth in Chinese, is
a residential and commercial complex built through the
redevelopment of houses dating back to the 19th and 20th
centuries located in downtown Shanghai. The project attracted
local and international retailers and restaurants, including
Paulaner Brahaus and  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)   Shui On is set to earn as much this year as it did last
year, Lo said. “We’re still confident that we will deliver
results that will be comparable to last year,” he said.  The company’s first-half earnings fell 50 percent compared
with the year-ago period after it completed fewer properties. In
the next two years, Shui On plans to sell more, Lo said.  “Next year we’re expecting to deliver over 10 million
square feet, and the year after that we see a significant
increase as well,” said Lo, who is developing projects in
Shanghai, Wuhan, Chongqing, Fosan and Dalian.  Shui On plans to spin off its Chinese property leasing
business next year in an initial public offering in  Hong Kong ,
said Lo, who’s ranked the 19th richest person in the city by
Forbes magazine, with an estimated net worth of $2.15 billion.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  