-- 
High Cholesterol Levels Linked to Alzheimer Disease Risk, Researchers Say

-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a
-- 
2011-09-12T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/cholesterol-levels-linked-to-alzheimer-s-disease-risk-in-study.html
People who accumulate plaque on
their arteries may be more prone to another insidious type of
buildup -- one that clogs their brains.  Scientists who tested the cholesterol levels of 147
patients found that those with the highest readings were more
likely to also have the brain plaque that signals  Alzheimer’s
disease . The research was published today in the medical journal
 Neurology .  The findings suggest that lowering cholesterol levels early
in life may reduce the prevalence of Alzheimer’s, a progressive
disease that starts with forgetfulness and eventually saps
memories and independence. Doctors have struggled to understand,
predict and slow the advance of the illness ever since it was
first described by German doctor Alois Alzheimer more than a
century ago.  “Our study clearly makes the point that high cholesterol
may contribute directly or indirectly to plaques in the brain,”
Kensuke Sasaki, the study’s lead author and an associate
professor at  Kyushu University  in Fukuoka, Japan, said in a
telephone interview. “The management of cholesterol levels
early on may lead to preventing Alzheimer’s disease later.”  Sasaki and his colleagues tested the cholesterol of 2,587
adults aged 40 to 79 in southern  Japan  23 years ago and sought
permission to autopsy those patients after they died to look for
plaques and tangles in the brain that signal Alzheimer’s.  The results, based on the 147 participants who were
autopsied, show that 86 percent of those with high cholesterol
had brain plaques, compared with 62 percent of those with low
cholesterol.  The researchers will continue to gather data, Sasaki said.
The study is funded by the Japan Society for the Promotion of
Science and the country’s health ministry.  Alzheimer’s disease afflicts about 36 million people
worldwide, a number that is expected to double by 2050,
according to the  Alzheimer’s Association , an advocacy group
based in  Chicago . Existing drugs temporarily ease symptoms and
none cure the condition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in  Tokyo  at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net . 