-- 
Citigroup Cuts U.S. Bank Profit Targets by 45% on Europe, Slowing Growth

-- B y   D a r r e n   B o e y   a n d   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 
2011-09-12T08:24:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/citigroup-reduces-estimates-for-u-s-banks-third-quarter-earnings-by-45-.html
U.S. banks’ third-quarter profit
estimates were cut an average 45 percent by Citigroup Inc. on
concern that the global equities rout and volatility in credit
markets will pare earnings from trading and investment banking.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  may post profit of 25 cents a share, lower
than a previous estimate of 36 cents, while  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  is forecast to report earnings of 10 cents a share, down
from $2.70, analysts including Keith Horowitz wrote in a report
dated Sept. 11.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the most profitable U.S.
bank, may report $1.17 a share, down from $1.26, they said.  Profit estimates for the next two years were also pared
because of faltering economic growth and uncertainties regarding
regulations and new capital requirements, Citigroup said. The
 MSCI World (MXWO)  Index has shed 20 percent since the beginning of May
on concern that Europe’s sovereign debt crisis and a slowdown in
the U.S. may stall the global economy.  “A downgrade of that magnitude won’t do anything for
investor confidence,” said Shane Oliver, Sydney-based head of
investment strategy at AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which has
almost $100 billion under management. “It does unfortunately
come at a time when there’s a lot of uncertainty over Europe.”  The third-quarter profit estimate for  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) , the biggest U.S. lender by assets, was raised to 61 cents
a share from 18 cents as a one-time gain from selling its stake
in China Construction Bank Corp. helped make up for lower
trading revenue, New York-based Citigroup said.  The third-quarter “operating environment has been very
challenging,” the Citigroup analysts wrote in the report.
“Persistent volatility in U.S. and euro equity and credit
markets, declining global growth expectations and little
momentum towards a lasting resolution to sovereign issues in
Europe have been weighing heavily on investor confidence.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Darren Boey in  Hong Kong  at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  