-- 
Cochlear Slumps Most in 7 Years on Recall

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a   a n d   J a s o n   G a l e
-- 
2011-09-12T04:05:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/cochlear-slumps-most-in-7-years-on-recall.html
Cochlear Ltd. (COH)  plunged the most in
more than seven years in Australian trading after a recall of
its hearing devices threatened to tarnish the company’s
reputation and erode its share of the global ear-implant market.  Cochlear is voluntarily recalling its Nucleus CI500 range
because of an increase in failures of its CI512 units, the
Sydney-based company said in a statement today. The shares
declined as much as 27 percent after UBS AG cut its rating to
“sell” from “neutral” and said the recall may hurt
Cochlear’s sales, reputation and valuation.  The financial impact of the recall is “difficult to
predict at this stage,” Cochlear said in the statement. The
company, formed 29 years ago to develop a so-called bionic ear
invented by Melbourne researcher Professor Graeme Clark, has 
about 70 percent of the global market for hearing devices 
implanted in the snail shell-like part of the inner ear.  “This recall is potentially a big deal,” said  Angus Gluskie , who manages more than $300 million at White Funds
Management in Sydney. “The CI500 range is Cochlear’s primary
implant device, and a recall may impact short-term earnings, as
well as possibly damaging its reputation. Cochlear has recalled
the device on its own initiative, so we’ll be interested to see
if they’re able to rectify matters in a short time.”  Cochlear plunged 20 percent to A$57.77 as of 1:47 p.m. in
Sydney, wiping A$820 million from the company’s market value. A
close at this level would be the worst decline since December
2003. The stock was the worst performer today on the nation’s
benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index, which fell 3.2 percent.  Global Market  The devices are sold in about 100 countries. The recall is
only for units on shelves and doesn’t relate to those already in
use, the company said. If failure occurs, the implant safely
shuts down without injuring the recipient, and the
malfunctioning device may be replaced with an implant from its
previous range called the Nucleus Freedom, it said.  “We don’t know how many are out on the shelves,” Neville Mitchell, Cochlear’s chief financial officer, said in a phone
interview. “I have no idea how many we will have to recall.”  Production of the CI500 range stopped today and the company
is now manufacturing the Freedom, Credit Suisse AG wrote in a
report. Additional supplies could be provided next month,
analysts Saul Hadassin and William Dunlop wrote. One month of
lost sales would equate to a A$20 million, or 10 percent,
reduction in net income, they wrote.  Profit Risk  In the event that there is a systemic problem affecting
more than just recent manufacturing batches and the cochlear
implant inventory is written off, net income may be reduced by a
further 33 percent, the Credit Suisse analysts wrote.  Fewer than 1 percent of the CI512 implants have failed
since they were first sold in 2009, Cochlear said. The recall
was prompted after a “recent increase in the number of Nucleus
CI512 implant failures,” it said.  “This has the potential to lead to prolonged market share
gain for its competitors,” most likely closely held Med-El
Corp., Nomura Holdings Inc. wrote in a report today, in which it
reiterated a “buy” recommendation.  Switzerland ’s  Sonova Holding AG (SOON)  is Cochlear’s second-
largest competitor with about 15 percent of the market, Nomura’s
Sydney-based health-care analysts David Stanton and Zara Lyons
wrote. Potential recipients and surgeons are likely to use
alternative cochlear implants to those of Cochlear, they said.  About 20,000 units from the Nucleus 5 series have been
implanted, accounting for about 70 percent of the company’s
sales of inner-ear implants, Nomura said. The brokerage
estimated 27,800 cochlear implants would be sold in the year
ending June 2012, accounting for more than two-thirds of
revenue.  “The commercial impact of this recall is very hard to
predict at this stage,” said  Jamie Spiteri , head dealer at Shaw
Stockbroking Ltd. in Sydney. “However, uncertainty is always a
concern.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Gale in Singapore at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  