-- 
Colorado Voters May Raise Taxes by $3 Billion After Caps Sap School Funds

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   O l d h a m
-- 
2011-09-12T04:00:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/colorado-voters-may-raise-taxes-by-3-billion-to-aid-schools.html
Colorado  voters will decide in
November if they want to pay higher taxes to pump almost
$3 billion into a state education system that ranks 40th in the
nation in spending per pupil.  Proposition 103 would increase the income-tax rate to
5 percent from 4.63 percent and the sales and use levy to
3 percent from 2.9 percent for five years, according to the
Legislative Council, a nonpartisan research arm of the Colorado
General Assembly. Supporters of the measure gathered 142,000
signatures to place it on the ballot.  “We had an overwhelming response,” said Democratic state
Senator Rollie Heath, who sponsored the  initiative  after the
Legislature cut $500 million from the education budget over the
last three years. “People said, ‘It’s about time. We’ve gone
too far.’”  Colorado is the  only state  with an initiative on the
November ballot that would raise income taxes, according to the
 National Conference of State Legislatures . A 1992 amendment to
the state constitution bars the Legislature and local lawmakers
from increasing taxes without voter approval. Coloradans last
year voted not to lower their income tax.  The amendment -- known as the Taxpayer Bill of Rights, or
Tabor -- and a measure passed in 1982 that restricts property-
tax growth have placed more responsibility for education funding
on the state, which now pays 64 percent of those costs. In 1993,
the state’s share was 55 percent, according to a  study  released
Aug. 31 by the Center for Colorado’s Economic Future at the
University of Denver.  ‘Crisis Mode’  Colorado spent $1,809 less per pupil in kindergarten
through 12th grade than the national average of $10,591 in 2009,
the most recent year for which data are available, according to
the Washington-based  National Center for Education Statistics. 
Only 10 states spent less. Before 1982, state spending was about
equal to the national average, according to the center.  “No other state suffers this unique situation,” said Jane
Urschel, deputy executive director of the Colorado Association
of School Boards. “We’re in crisis mode.”  About $200 million in cuts in the 2012 fiscal year forced
some of the state’s 178 school districts to fire teachers,
suspend textbook purchases, institute transportation fees,
freeze salaries, lower graduation requirements and reduce the
school week.  ‘Beyond the Bone’  In Jefferson County, the state’s largest district with
about 86,000 students across 780 square miles, administrators
trimmed almost $40 million from this year’s budget. About 206
teachers, support staff and administrators lost their jobs as a
result. The district also reduced funding for capital projects
by $3 million, closed two elementary schools and increased class
sizes.  “If Proposition 103 doesn’t pass, we will be looking at
another $35 million in cuts,” said Cindy Stevenson, the
district’s superintendent, in a telephone interview. “We’re
beyond the bone.”  Opponents, including Republican House Majority Leader Amy Stephens, argue that raising taxes will stall the state’s
recovery from the recession by causing businesses to think twice
about hiring more workers or relocating to Colorado.  “We have to be able to compete against  Utah , against  Texas 
and against  New Mexico ,” Stephens said. “Jan Brewer is wooing
companies left and right to  Arizona ,” she said, referring to
that state’s Republican governor.  Colorado’s Democratic governor, John Hickenlooper, “has no
plans to endorse or oppose” Proposition 103,  Eric Brown , a
spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Throwing an Anchor  Raising taxes over five years would slow Colorado’s economy
and lead to 27,000 fewer people working by 2016, according to a
study by Eric Fruits, president of Economics International Corp.
in  Portland ,  Oregon . He was hired by the Colorado-based Common
Sense Policy Roundtable, a research organization with several
business leaders on its board.  “Raising taxes is always going to be like throwing an
anchor behind you,” Fruits said. “It will always create a drag
on the economy.”  Supporters of the measure may face an uphill battle, if
results from last year’s election are any indication. Two-thirds
of  Washington  voters in November cast ballots against levying an
income tax on the state’s top 1 percent of earners. Washington
has no state income tax. They also approved a measure that ended
 sales tax  on candy and bottled water, and excise taxes on
carbonated beverages.  Fed Up  Still, there are some signs that voters are fed up with
service cuts that result from tax reductions, said Jennifer
Burnett, a program manager at the  Council of State Governments 
in Lexington,  Kentucky , in a telephone interview.  In  Massachusetts  in 2010, voters rejected a measure that
would have reduced the sales tax to 3 percent from 6.25 percent.
Colorado residents said no to Proposition 101, which would have
lowered income-tax rates as well as vehicle levies and fees.  Coloradans were content to keep taxes where they were
because they’re already low, Burnett said. Colorado ranked 40th
among states in the top marginal income-tax rate for the 2011
tax year, according to the Washington-based  Tax Foundation .  Heath, the sponsor, disagrees that Proposition 103 would
lead to slower job growth. He cites scores of Colorado teachers
who lost their jobs in the last decade after school districts
were forced to cut budgets when they received less state money.
If the referendum passes, state legislators will be charged with
allocating money collected to both K-12 and higher education.  “If we’re the only state in the country that passes a
measure like this and the headlines are ‘Colorado Bucks Trends
and Decides to Fund Education,’ it will have a positive
effect,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Oldham in Denver at 
 joldham1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  