-- 
Colombia Sees Protests as Commodities Wealth Spurs ‘Discontent’

-- B y   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 
2011-09-12T18:16:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/colombia-sees-protests-as-commodities-wealth-spurs-discontent-.html
Colombia  should brace for more
protests against commodities producers amid “discontent” over
their failure to share the benefits of the nation’s natural-
resources wealth, Vice President Angelino Garzon said.  A lack of local hiring and failures to improve regional
infrastructure and protect the environment is fueling criticism
against oil and mining companies from unions, residents and
local officials, Garzon said in an interview.  “There is a lot of criticism both from citizens and also
from workers,” he said Sept. 10. “People expect that when a
lot of wealth is leaving their region, there also is improvement
in their own prosperity.”  Protests have cut crude and copper production in  Latin
America  this year by companies including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and
YPF SA as rising prices prompt demands for a greater share of
nations’ commodities wealth. Colombia is South America’s third-
largest oil producer and the region’s largest coal exporter.  In Colombia, protesters blocking roads caused output cuts
this year at oil producers  Petrominerales Ltd. (PMG)  and  Pacific
Rubiales Energy Corp. (PRE)  Rallies against a development near a
watershed area prompted Eco Oro Minerales Corp., formerly
Greystar Resources Ltd., to redesign its project.  Gold has jumped 45 percent in 12 months, while copper has
climbed 17 percent and oil has risen 6 percent in the same
period. Rising crude prices and production increases more than
doubled net income at state-run oil producer  Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL)  to
3.75 trillion pesos ($2.1 billion) in the second quarter.  Better Security  To increase investment in oil wells and mines, President
Juan Manuel Santos has lured international companies to Colombia
by improving security. The government seeks higher metals and
oil production while striking a balance with economic and social
development, Garzon said.  Some foreign companies investing in Colombia have abandoned
the social, labor and environmental “good practices” they
follow in their home countries, he said.  “Here they do just the opposite,” he said. “Companies
have to revise their practices.”  He said companies with “very good practices” include
Ecopetrol and Cerrejon, Colombia’s largest coal mine owned by
BHP Billiton,  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  and  Xstrata Plc. (XTA)   Unions in Peru, Chile and Argentina also have walked off
the job to demand greater benefits this year. In Peru, a union
at a unit of  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX)  said it will
resume government-brokered labor talks today in a bid to avert a
strike to demand higher wages.  Lost Output  In Chile, producers may have lost 8 percent of estimated
2011 output on strikes, bad weather and declining ore quality,
Diego Hernandez, chief executive officer of state-owned copper
producer Codelco, said Aug. 12. Chile is the world’s largest
producer, followed by Peru.  Students in Chile also have staged months of protests,
prompting President Sebastian Pinera to announce the creation of
a $4 billion education fund after the nation’s revenue from
copper surged.  In  Argentina , protesters have cut output at oil fields
owned by YPF and taken over facilities run by Petrobras
Argentina SA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Walsh at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  