-- 
Commonly Used Pain Pills Increase Kidney Cancer Risk in Study

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-09-12T20:31:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/commonly-used-pain-pills-increase-kidney-cancer-risk-in-study.html
Pain medicines routinely taken by
millions of people to ease headaches and joint pain may also
increase the risk of kidney cancer, researchers said.  People who regularly used ibuprofen, sold by  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ)  as Motrin and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  as Advil, or naproxen, sold by
 Bayer AG (BAYN)  as Aleve, were 51 percent more likely to develop kidney
cancer than those who didn’t rely on the pills, according to a
study published today in Archives of  Internal Medicine . There
wasn’t an increased risk from aspirin or acetaminophen, the main
ingredient in J&J’s Tylenol.  The findings run counter to earlier studies that suggested
ibuprofen and naproxen could reduce the risk of more common
tumors, including breast, prostate and  colon cancer , said lead
researcher Eunyoung Cho, an epidemiologist at Brigham and
Women’s Hospital in  Boston . Additional research is needed to
confirm the risk, she said in a telephone interview.  “It’s something people need to keep in mind, that this may
increase the risk of certain cancers,” Cho said. “If our study
is confirmed, the risks and benefits should be considered in
trying to decide whether to use analgesics, especially for long
durations.”  The researchers analyzed the medical records of 126,928
volunteers taking part in the Nurses’ Health Study or the Health
Professionals Follow-up Study. There were 333 cases of renal
cell carcinoma, the most common type of kidney cancer.  The risk rose the longer the study participants took the
pain medications, with a 19 percent drop in danger for those
using them for less than four years and a three-fold higher risk
for people who took the pills for a decade or more.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  