-- 
Concealed Handguns in New York City Backed by 243 in U.S. House

-- B y   J o h n   C r e w d s o n
-- 
2011-09-12T22:07:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/concealed-handguns-in-new-york-city-backed-by-243-members-of-u-s-congress.html
I’ve never touched a handgun and I
haven’t been to  Florida  in decades, yet this month Florida
officials mailed me a permit to carry a concealed gun.  If Congress adopts a bill that the National Rifle
Association is pushing, Florida’s licenses would apply to 49
states in all -- allowing their holders to carry hidden guns in
places such as midtown Manhattan, where the New York Police
Department rejects most such applications for “concealed-
carry” permits.  Only Illinois and Washington, D.C., where residents aren’t
allowed to carry concealed handguns at all, would be exempt.  Co-sponsored by more than half the members of the U.S.
House, the bill requires any state or jurisdiction that issues
concealed-weapons permits to honor permits granted by any other
state or jurisdiction. Rules and standards -- including safety-
training requirements -- for granting such licenses vary by
state.  New Mexico  requires 16 hours of training. Ohio requires
12, Texas and Louisiana, 10. At least 10 states require none.  “Law-abiding people are not immune from crime just because
they cross over a state border,” said Andrew Arulanandam, a
spokesman for the NRA. The 4 million-member gun-rights group has
lobbied state legislatures to pass concealed-carry laws since
the 1980s, and it considers the federal “reciprocity” bill a
common-sense approach to the state-by-state patchwork of rules,
he said.  ‘So Ironic’  The bill “effectively prevents a state from controlling
who has guns within the state, which has always been a core
police power function of state government,” said John Donohue,
a professor at  Stanford Law School , who said he thinks it would
be held unconstitutional. “It is so ironic that it is the
conservatives who are trying to push this encroachment, since
they usually are very active in championing states’ rights.”  Florida, which granted my permit after I viewed a half-
hour, online safety video, now says it made a mistake.
“Unfortunately, our office made an error in completing your
application,” wrote Sterling Ivey, a spokesman for the state
licensing division in an e-mail response after I asked why
somebody with no handgun experience got a permit.  While Florida law doesn’t set a minimum number of hours for
safety training or specify what the training must include, it
does require trainers to keep documentation that applicants
“have been observed safely handling and discharging the
firearm,” Ivey wrote. There was no such documentation in my
case.  Resembles Driver’s License  Even so, the actual permit itself, which resembles a
driver’s license, arrived in Saturday’s mail. After he was asked
about the permit last week, Ivey said the state plans to send a
follow-up letter detailing “what additional information will be
needed.”  From 2005 through 2009, U.S. domestic handgun production
and foreign-made imports more than doubled, to 4,600,232 from
1,995,802, according to data compiled by the  National Shooting
Sports Foundation , which represents the firearms industry.  With states’ adoption of concealed-carry laws and U.S.
 Supreme Court  decisions affirming the right to keep and bear
arms, “it is not surprising that there has been an increase in
consumer demand for firearm and ammunition products,” said
Lawrence G. Keane, the foundation’s senior vice president and
general counsel.  In Wisconsin, where Governor  Scott Walker , a Republican,
signed the nation’s newest concealed-carry law on July 8, the
legislation spurred an immediate increase in handgun purchases,
said Eric Grabowski, who manages the Shooters Shop in the
Milwaukee suburb of West Allis.  “Ordinarily, we could go on vacation in July and not miss
many sales,” Grabowski said.  ‘Something to Carry’  No vacation this July. The shop sold about 500 handguns in
the first two weeks of the month, almost all to customers who
said they wanted “something to carry” when the state begins
issuing permits in November, he said.  A 2007 study by the Harvard School of Public Health, the
most recent data available, estimated the number of privately
owned firearms in the U.S. at 283 million -- more than one for
each of the 245 million Americans over the age of 20.  If adopted, the federal reciprocity bill would cause the
number of handguns to “jump significantly,” said  Grover Norquist , an NRA board member who’s better known as the
president of Americans for  Tax Reform . Among other reasons,
Norquist cited his belief that people who live in one state and
travel frequently to another for work or other reasons would buy
more guns.  ‘Race to Bottom’  States can already choose to adopt reciprocity agreements
-- Florida has such pacts with 35 other states, although 4 of
them require that the permit holder be a Florida resident. The
federal bill would eliminate states’ discretion. As a result,
even the most exacting jurisdictions would be required to honor
permits from the laxest. Stanford University law professor
Robert Weisberg called it a “race to the bottom.”  “In some states, the permits are practically a rubber
stamp,” said Laura Cutilletta, a senior staff attorney with
Legal Community Against Violence, a San Francisco-based public
interest law center dedicated to preventing gun violence. “In
others, authorities are very careful about whether the applicant
is fit to carry a concealed and loaded weapon in public.”  In  New York  City, it’s nearly impossible for most
applicants to get concealed-carry permits, said Jerold Levine,
an attorney who handles appeals of denials. Officials with the
New York Police Department, which vets applications in the city,
declined to comment for this story.  ‘Moral Character’  Unlike many jurisdictions, the city considers the
applicant’s “moral character,” Levine said. “If you were
arrested in a bar fight, even if it was 15 years ago, forget
it,” he said. “You’re not getting a permit.”  Florida didn’t ask about my moral character on the
application I downloaded from the state Division of Licensing’s
website. I filled it out and sent it to Tallahassee, along with
a set of fingerprints taken by my local police department in
Maryland ($14); a color passport-style photo ($5); and a check
for $117.  I also sent a “Certificate of Completion” that I earned
by watching an online video about gun safety offered by the
Maryland Police Training Commission, a state agency. I never
left my desk and never touched a handgun.  As of last month, Florida had issued 843,463 such permits,
93,722 of them to people who don’t live there. Its concealed-
carry law, adopted in 1987, doesn’t distinguish between in-state
and out-of-state applicants, said Ivey, the spokesman.  Background Check  Once my application arrived at Florida’s licensing
division, a background check was conducted to see whether I met
the requirements mandated by federal law: no felony conviction,
never forcibly committed to a mental institution, not guilty of
misdemeanor domestic violence, not a fugitive from justice,
never dishonorably discharged from the Armed Forces.  I happen to be clear on all counts. In 2007, the South
Florida Sun-Sentinel newspaper in  Fort Lauderdale  reported that
1,400 people in the state had permits even though they had been
sentenced for major crimes, including assault, drug possession,
sexual battery and manslaughter. Judges had withheld formal
convictions under a state law that allowed the practice.  Since 2007, after the NRA lobbied on the issue, 39 states
have limited the amount of public information that’s available
on permit holders -- making investigations into their
backgrounds more difficult.  Shall and May  In Florida and 34 other states, laws require that
authorities “shall issue” concealed-carry permits to
applicants who qualify. Five of those states -- Indiana,  New
Hampshire , North Dakota, Pennsylvania and  Washington  -- also
issue concealed handgun permits to out-of-state applicants.  Ten other states, including New York, have “may issue”
laws, which leave permitting decisions to state or local law-
enforcement authorities. Four states allow residents to carry
concealed weapons without permits.  In 14 states, residents need some form of license, permit
or other prerequisite just to purchase a handgun from a dealer,
according to the NRA’s  Institute for Legislative Action . Those
requirements wouldn’t be affected by the federal bill.  Chris Cox, the NRA’s chief lobbyist, credits “the work of
countless NRA members” for expanding concealed-carry rights
nationally, according to a column he wrote for the August
edition of an NRA magazine, America’s First Freedom.  “The progress we’ve made on this issue is nothing short of
amazing,” Cox wrote, while warning that “we won’t rest until
no one, at any level of government, anywhere in this country,
can arbitrarily limit the right of good people to carry firearms
for defense.”  Co-Sponsors in House  The federal legislation, introduced by U.S. Representative
Heath Shuler, a  North Carolina  Democrat, and Representative
 Cliff Stearns , a Florida Republican, has already attracted 241
other co-sponsors in the House, enough to guarantee its passage
in that chamber.  Two Republican senators,  David Vitter  of Louisiana and John Thune of  South Dakota , are expected to introduce a companion
bill that at least 10 Democratic senators are likely to support,
said Chad Ramsey, a lobbyist with the  Brady Center to Prevent
Gun Violence , which opposes concealed carry. That would give the
bill 58 votes if all Republican senators supported it, two short
of the number needed to avoid a filibuster.  Luke Bolar, an aide to Vitter, said Republicans might
append the bill to another measure that President Obama would
have to sign, such as the pending Flood Insurance Reform Act.  White House Silent  Obama declared his opposition to carrying concealed weapons
during the 2008 campaign. Matt Lehrich, a White House spokesman,
declined to say whether Obama would veto a national reciprocity
bill if it reaches his desk.  The bill, which is scheduled to come up during a House
subcommittee hearing on Tuesday, is opposed by the  American Bar
Association . At its convention last month, the lawyers’
professional group adopted a resolution supporting “broad
discretion” for local  law enforcement  in deciding whether to
grant permits.  A coalition of 600 U.S. mayors announced its opposition to
the bill today in a news release. The group, Mayors Against
Illegal Handguns, is co-chaired by Boston Mayor Thomas M. Menino
and New York Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. Bloomberg is the
founder and majority owner of Bloomberg LP, the parent company
of Bloomberg News.  The 22,000-member International Association of Chiefs of
Police also opposes the measure.  ‘Potpourri of Standards’  “Our problem is the potpourri of varied training standards
for each state,” said Scott Knight, the police chief in Chaska,
Minnesota, and chairman of the group’s firearms committee.  Largely because of the differing standards among “shall
issue” and “may issue” states, the bill raises what Harvard
University professor of constitutional law Laurence Tribe calls
“interesting and difficult constitutional questions.”  Tribe said the bill is “an unprecedented attempt by
Congress” to require states with more stringent concealed carry
laws to accede to “the more permissive laws of whichever state
initially licensed someone’s carrying of a concealed weapon.”  While the Constitution’s commerce clause gives Congress
authority to regulate commerce between the states, the
reciprocity bill probably wouldn’t fall within that power, said
Weisberg, the law professor who serves as faculty co-director of
the Stanford Criminal Justice Center. Nor would it fall under
Congress’ power to enforce such existing constitutional
liberties as the right “to keep and bear arms,” he said.  Right to Carry  That’s because the Constitution is silent about whether
there’s a specific right to carry a concealed firearm outside
the home, and the Supreme Court has not yet spoken on the issue,
he said.  “This is a completely unsettled question,” Weisberg said.
“We have a very long way to go. The rights that this bill
purports to enforce are not clearly established rights at this
point.”  David Kopel, an adjunct professor of advanced
constitutional law at the University of Denver and an NRA
member, says the bill could survive a constitutional challenge.  The inability to carry a concealed firearm might dissuade a
business traveler from visiting an unfamiliar and possibly
dangerous place, thus interfering with his right to conduct
commerce via interstate travel, as guaranteed by the commerce
clause, Kopel said.  ‘Sensitive Places’  When the U.S. Supreme Court affirmed the right to keep
handguns in the home in 2008, it specifically avoided infringing
laws against carrying firearms in “sensitive places,” such as
schools and government buildings, he noted.  In specifying “sensitive places,” the high court implied
a right to carry firearms in “non-sensitive places,” which
could define almost any other venue, Kopel says.  The list of sensitive places is shorter in some states than
others. Last month,  Ohio  became one of a handful of states where
it’s legal to carry a concealed firearm into a bar -- though
some allow bar owners to opt out and others forbid the gun owner
from drinking or being drunk.  Columbus Mayor  Michael Coleman  fought the measure, as did
the state’s bar and restaurant owners. Lawmakers approved it
despite a survey commissioned by the Ohio Coalition Against Gun
Violence that found 69 percent of Ohioans opposed the bill,
Coleman said.  As many as 26 colleges and universities, mostly in Colorado
and Utah, allow concealed weapons on their campuses -- though
only Utah requires schools to allow them inside academic
buildings, said David Burnett, a spokesman for Students for
Concealed Carry on Campus.  Nationwide Numbers  Nationwide, 24 other states prohibit guns on campus, 15
leave the decision up to individual schools and 10 don’t address
the issue, Burnett said. His group says that arming more
students might prevent incidents like the 2007 mass shootings at
the Virginia Polytechnic Institute in which a disturbed student
killed 32 people and wounded 25 others before killing himself.  While the number of handguns is growing, it’s not clear how
often they’re being used for defense. Estimates of the numbers
of concealed-carry permits nationwide range from 4 million to 7
million. Data from 14 surveys conducted by academic researchers,
polling organizations and the federal Centers for Disease
Control show that between 700,000 and 3.6 million people each
year say they’ve had occasion to draw concealed firearms --
though not necessarily to shoot an assailant.  Surveys Unreliable  “Surveys are not a reliable source of information on this
issue,” said Phillip Cook, an associate dean and professor of
economics and sociology at Duke University in Durham, North
Carolina. He prefers the U.S. government’s National Crime
Victimization Survey, which he said shows about 100,000
“defensive gun uses per year.”  Longtime carrier Zak Johnson, a technical writer in
Portsmouth, New Hampshire, has never had to draw his five-shot,
.357 magnum revolver in an emergency.  “I do a lot of camping and hiking in the backwoods by
myself or with my kids,” Johnson said. “I like the option of
concealed carry.”  Johnson says he’s not worried about encountering angry
animals. “It’s the people,” he says. “I carry in the cities,
too, although Portsmouth isn’t exactly a high-crime area.”  Richard Feldman, a former lobbyist for both the NRA and the
NSSF, advocates national reciprocity and has a personal story to
back up his convictions.  ‘Road-Rage’ Thing  It began as “a road-rage kind of thing,” Feldman recalls.
He and the other driver pulled to the side of the road, “and
the guy gets out of his car and he’s carrying a tire iron.”  Feldman drew the  Smith & Wesson Holding Corp. (SWHC) ’s .38 caliber
Chief’s Special Airweight, a five-shot revolver that was a gift
from his girlfriend. He rolled down his car’s window and pointed
it at the approaching driver.  “‘You got a problem, Bud?’” he recalls asking.  “He dropped the tire iron and said ‘Sorry, my mistake,’
and retreated back to his vehicle,” Feldman said. “I’m not
sure what would have happened if I hadn’t had that gun.”
Feldman still has the tire iron in his garage.  As concealed-carry legislation has broadened the market for
smaller, lighter firearms, few companies have taken better
advantage than Sturm, Ruger & Co. Inc., of Southport,
Connecticut. In 2009, Sturm, Ruger was the leading U.S.-based
producer of handguns, according to data compiled by the Bureau
of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, which is known by
its former acronym, “ATF.”  ‘It’ll Probably Happen’  Sturm, Ruger, whose share price has increased 100 percent
this year, should get a sales boost from Wisconsin’s new
concealed-carry law, Michael Fifer, the company’s chief
executive officer, said during a July earnings call.  “We’re all looking enthusiastically forward to it, and, as
your good common sense tells you, it’ll probably happen.”  The company sells for $373 a 5-inch-long semi-automatic
pistol, the Ruger LCP, that weighs 10 ounces -- about a quarter
as much as Colt’s Manufacturing Co.’s iconic Colt 45. It holds
seven rounds of the .380 cartridge. Other gun makers have also
begun producing smaller, lighter, more powerful guns suitable
for pocket or purse.  Smith & Wesson of Springfield, Massachusetts, says on its
website that its sub-compact revolvers have “become the most
popular small frame personal defense revolver on the market.”
One model, with a 2-inch-long barrel, weighs 13 ounces and fires
the powerful .357 magnum cartridge, used for many years by the
U.S. Secret Service.  ‘Pocket Rocket’  “Absolute Concealed Power,” reads an ad in an NRA
magazine for a pistol produced by Kahr Arms. “The Ultimate in
Concealed Firepower,” boasts an ad for Kel-Tec CNC Inc.’s P-40.
“User Friendly Pocket Rocket,” says an ad for the Standard
Arms 9 mm sub-compact.  Some marketing is aimed at younger, more urban and more
affluent women, despite data from the  National Opinion Research
Center  showing that the portion of U.S. women who report owning
guns has hovered around 10 percent for decades. Smith & Wesson
produces small, high-powered handguns under the LadySmith brand.  Charter Arms produces a pink snub-nosed revolver called the
“Chic Lady,” which comes with “an attractive pink faux
alligator case,” and the .32 caliber “ Lavender Lady ,” which
the company claims is “fun, attractive and much less likely to
be ‘borrowed’ by the gentleman of the house!”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Crewdson at   jcrewdson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net . 