-- 
Credit Suisse Rate Flip-Flop Bolsters Cut Calls: Mexico Credit

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 
2011-09-12T21:35:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/credit-suisse-rate-flip-flop-adds-to-banks-calling-for-cut-mexico-credit.html
Mexico ’s faltering expansion is
prompting economists to join traders in predicting the central
bank will lower interest rates.  Five of 21 economists forecast policy makers will reduce
benchmark borrowing costs as soon as October, according to a
survey by Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit on Sept. 6. All
projected the central bank would keep rates at a record-low 4.5
percent through year-end two weeks before. Swaps traders began
predicting on Sept. 2 that bank will trim rates next month. In
Brazil, they are pricing in further reductions after a surprise
50-basis point cut in August.  Growing concern the U.S. and  Europe  may fall into recession
is boosting speculation developing countries will follow  Brazil 
and Turkey in lowering rates to shore up growth. Alonso Cervera,
an economist at Credit Suisse Group AG, flipped his Mexico rate
estimate two days after the publication of Banamex’s survey.  “It’s a combination of the worsening of the growth outlook
from the U.S. and Mexico,” Cervera, who forecasts the central
bank will trim its key rate in October and then again in
December, said in a telephone interview from New York.  Yields on futures contracts due in October, known as TIIE,
sank 10 basis points, or 0.1 percentage point, in the past
month.  Banco de Mexico  is the only major Latin America central
bank to have kept borrowing costs unchanged in the past year.  Yields on Mexico’s benchmark peso bonds due in 2024 fell 46
basis points last month, the biggest drop since March 2009. They
rose 23 basis points to 6.58 percent today, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Recession Risk  Turkey  unexpectedly cut interest rates to a record low of
5.75 percent on Aug. 4. Traders in Brazil expect the central
bank will reduce its rate by 1 percentage point to 11 percent by
year-end.  The chance the  U.S. economy , which buys 80 percent of
Mexico’s exports, may relapse into recession has risen to 35
percent, according to the median forecasts of 63 economists
surveyed this month by Bloomberg News. The world’s biggest
economy will expand at a 1.6 percent rate in 2011, the survey
found.  “We’re closely tied to the U.S. cycle and a deteriorating
U.S. economy would merit a more defensive position,” Eduardo Avila, an economist at Monex Casa de Bolsa SA in Mexico City,
said in a telephone interview. “There’s room to have rates a
little lower.”  One economist in the Banamex survey currently forecasts an
October cut, while two expect a rate reduction in December and
one predicts February. Avila, who forecast a cut without listing
a date, plans to elaborate in a report next week.  ‘Difficult’  Mexico’s economy will probably grow 4 percent this year,
central bank Governor Agustin Carstens said in an interview with
Mexico City-based Radio Formula on Sept. 8. It will expand “a
little less” than 4 percent next year, he said.  A growth rate of 4 percent is still high enough to keep
Carstens from lowering rates, said Nader Nazmi, a Latin America
economist at BNP Paribas.  “If Governor Carstens believes that that the economy is
going to grow at that pace, it would be difficult in my view to
make the case for a rate cut,” Nazmi said in a telephone
interview from  New York . “If growth slows down substantially as
a consequence of the U.S. outlook, then they’re ready to act. We
haven’t gotten there yet.”  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries was little changed at
226 as of 5:15 p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI
Global index.  Default Swaps  The peso fell 1.2 percent to 12.8429 per  U.S. dollar .  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years rose six basis points to 173 today, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  Credit Suisse’s Cervera said slowing inflation and the
prospect of stimulus measures from the  Federal Reserve  also led
him to change his call.  Annual inflation slowed to 3.42 percent in August from 3.55
percent in July.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , in a Sept. 8 speech to
economists in  Minneapolis , said policy makers will consider
steps this month to bolster growth and employment. The Fed has
measures at hand and is “prepared to employ these tools as
appropriate,” he said.  ‘Enough Firepower’  Bernanke has previously said that possible steps include
buying more bonds and lengthening the duration of securities in
its $1.65 trillion Treasury portfolio. The Fed purchased $2.3
trillion of debt since 2008, a policy known as quantitative
easing, or QE. The Fed said on Aug. 9 that it will keep interest
rates between zero and 0.25 percent through mid-2013.  “The central bank has enough firepower to do something,”
Mauro Roca, an emerging-market strategist at Deutsche Bank AG,
said in a telephone interview from New York. “The decision in
Mexico is easier than the U.S. because they still have room to
use their main policy: the  interest rate . If other central banks
are already cutting, that makes it easier for the remaining
ones.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  