-- 
Oil Tanker Sailing for Libya’s Mellitah as First Cargo From West Offered

-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e   a n d   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 
2011-09-12T08:38:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/crude-oil-tanker-sailing-for-libyan-coast-as-first-western-cargo-offered.html
An oil tanker is sailing to the
Libyan port of Mellitah, a sign the nation may be resuming
energy exports after months of fighting that led to the ouster
of  Muammar Qaddafi , ship-tracking data show.  The Newlead Avra, capable of hauling about 540,000 barrels,
signaled earlier today about 30 miles from the Libyan coast, the
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The 229-meter (750-foot) vessel
is 7.9 meters deep in the water, compared with a maximum draft
of 14.45 meters when fully loaded. It can carry crude or
refined-oil products, according to Bureau Veritas Group, which
monitors ships’ compliance with laws on seaworthiness.  Libya  wants to resume crude exports in two to three weeks,
Guma El-Gamaty, the U.K. coordinator for the country’s National
Transitional Council, said Sept. 8. Shipments from the country,
holder of  Africa ’s biggest oil reserves, plunged during a
conflict that escalated in February and led to leader Qaddafi
being deposed.  An 80,000 metric-ton cargo of crude was being offered for
shipment from Mellitah last week, three people with direct
knowledge of the transaction said Sept. 8. The loading is likely
the first from the nation’s west since March, said Thomas Zwick,
an Oslo-based analyst at Lorentzen & Stemoco AS, a consultant to
the shipping industry.  Commercial Officer  The Newlead Avra is on a 12-month charter to Vitol Group
and currently has no cargo onboard, according to Sozon
Alifragis, the chief commercial officer of Newlead Holdings
Ltd., which owns the vessel. A spokesman for Vitol declined to
comment.  Libyan crude output slumped to 60,000 barrels a day in July
from 1.7 million barrels in January, according to the Paris-
based  International Energy Agency , which advises 28
industrialized nations.  Operations resumed about two weeks ago at the 120,000
barrel-a-day Zawiyah refinery near the Libyan capital of
Tripoli, El-Gamaty said. The plant is processing 30,000 barrels
a day and will reach full capacity in six to eight weeks, he
said. The crude-export facility in the eastern port city of
Tobruk is undamaged, he said.  Libyan crude output increased to as much as 1.87 million
barrels a day in 2008 from 1.38 million barrels in 2002,
according to U.S. Energy Department data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in  London  at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  