-- 
Cyprus Downgrade Likely After Russia Loan, Economists Say

-- B y   S t e l i o s   O r p h a n i d e s
-- 
2011-09-12T13:24:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/cyprus-downgrade-likelier-after-russian-loan-piraeus-bank-says.html
A cut-rate loan that Cyprus is
negotiating with  Russia ’s government to avoid surging borrowing
costs may delay austerity plans and prompt another credit-rating
cut,  Piraeus Bank Ltd.  fund manager Marios Demetriades said.  Labor unions may “become reluctant to accept the necessary
measures as they might take an approach of pushing the problem
forward,” Nicosia-based Demetriades said in an e-mailed note
today. “If the government does not take the necessary measures
as promised, this lending will lead to greater problems in the
medium term as the government deficit is structural and rating
agencies will continue to downgrade the country.”  Russia is in talks about extending a loan to the euro
area’s third-smallest economy, Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin
told reporters in  St. Petersburg  on Sept. 10. Finance Minister
Kikis Kazamias has neither confirmed nor denied a report in
Phileleftheros newspaper that Cyprus is set to get a five-year
loan from Russia worth 2.5 billion euros ($3.4 billion) at an
annual rate of 4.5 percent, more than 10 percentage points below
the market rate.  “A possible deal will not alter the government’s fiscal-
consolidation plans,” Kazamias told reporters in Nicosia on
Sept. 9.  Downgrades  The eastern Mediterranean island, rocked by a July 11
explosion that destroyed its largest power station and knocked
out more than half of its electricity-generating capacity, is
struggling to avoid becoming the latest victim of  Europe ’s debt
crisis. Moody’s Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s Rating
Services and Fitch Ratings have all downgraded Cyprus’s credit
rating since the blast amid concern it may become the fourth
European Union nation to require a bailout.  Cyprus is seeking to trim its  budget deficit  to 5.5 percent
of gross domestic product this year and 2 percent in 2012 in an
attempt to avert further rating cuts. It also has to refinance
maturing debt worth 1.7 billion euros in 2011 and 2012. The
yield on Cyprus’s five-year bond expiring in Oct. 2015 was 14.7
percent at 4:14 p.m. in Nicosia. It peaked at 21.58 percent on
Aug. 29, compared with 7.17 percent three months ago.  If the government fails to further curb public payrolls, an
outflow of deposits from Cyprus’s banking system may not be
ruled out, as further sovereign-rating cuts will follow,
economist Spyros Episkopou, chief executive officer of Nicosia-
based Epicentral Consultancy Ltd, said today. “This could lead
to a shrinking of the contribution of the business services
sector and the banks to the economy,” he said, adding that the
loan won’t “avert any rating cuts.”  Labor Unions  Cyprus’s  OHO-SEK  union, which counts 72 percent of all
employees in state-owned companies and municipalities,
threatened to take action against a government proposal to cut
by a quarter the 13th salary its members receive as a Christmas
gift and freeze inflation compensation for two years, the
union’s general secretary, Nicos Tampas, said by phone today.
Glafkos Hadjipetrou, leader of  PASYDY , the civil servants union,
also  threatened   strike action , according to the website of
 Politis  newspaper.  Mainly Russian non-residents hold one of every two euros
deposited at Cypriot banks, directly or indirectly, according to
Theo Parperis, chairman of the  Institute of Certified Public
Accountants of Cyprus . Foreign companies that use Cyprus as a
base or vehicle for offshore operations contribute approximately
15 percent of the island’s economy, said Parperis, who is also a
partner in PricewaterhouseCoopers Cyprus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stelios Orphanides in Nicosia at  sorphanides@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 