-- 
Debt Committee Urged to ‘Go Big’

-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 
2011-09-12T21:20:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/debt-panel-urged-to-go-big-by-business-ex-officials-correct-.html
Business leaders and former
government officials urged Congress’s  deficit-reduction 
supercommittee to cut more than the $1.5 trillion in long-term
savings it is assigned to find.  “We urge you to ‘go big’ and develop a large-scale debt
reduction package sufficient to stabilize the debt as a share of
the economy,” they said in a letter today to the panel. The
group is led by the co-chairmen of President  Barack Obama ’s 2010
fiscal commission, Erskine Bowles and  Alan Simpson .  The 12-member, bipartisan supercommittee is scheduled to
hold its first hearing tomorrow.  About 60 people signed the letter. Among them are  Roger Altman , founder and chairman of Evercore Partners; Peter Davis,
president of Davis Capital Investment Ideas; and former senators
 Judd Gregg , a New Hampshire Republican, and Bob Kerrey, a
Nebraska Democrat.  The supercommittee’s savings goal “is peanuts, as we used
to say in the grandstand,” Simpson, a Republican former senator
from  Wyoming , said at a news conference today. “They’re going
to have to go for more than that.”  President Barack Obama is asking Congress to approve his
$447 billion plan to create jobs through tax cuts and new
spending, proposing it be paid for with tax increases that could
be folded into the supercommittee’s jurisdiction.  ‘Real Deficit Reduction’  Bowles said the U.S. needs to achieve about $4 trillion of
“real deficit reduction” over the next decade.  “We need to do this to reassure the markets,” said
Bowles, who was chief of staff for former President  Bill Clinton . He and Simpson appeared with Maya MacGuineas, president
of the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget, which
organized the letter.  White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said in a briefing today
that the supercommittee should “overachieve,” declining to say
specifically by how much the committee’s mandate should be
expanded. Obama outlined his jobs plan in a speech to Congress
last week.  In his address, Obama also signaled a willingness to
negotiate on the most important areas for Republicans, overhauls
to Medicare and Medicaid. So far Republicans have rejected the
idea of increasing the committee’s savings target, which would
increase pressure to also adopt tax increases to meet the new
goal.  ‘Nearly Impossible’  Following Obama’s speech, the Republican supercommittee co-
chairman, Representative  Jeb Hensarling  of  Texas , said any plan
to increase its savings mandate would hamstring the panel.
“This proposal would make the already-arduous challenge of
finding bipartisan agreement on deficit reduction nearly
impossible,” Hensarling said.  Simpson warned Republicans that all proposals to cut the
debt, including entitlement cuts and new revenue, need to be on
the table. “The heat is on,” he said.  Bowles said he’s optimistic after speaking privately with
several supercommittee members, including Republicans, that the
committee can increase its target and discuss revenue. “The
members I’ve talked to have been very clear that everything’s on
the table,” said Bowles.  “The politics have changed quite a bit since December of
last year,” Bowles said. That’s when he and Simpson failed to
get enough support from the Obama panel members to send their
recommendation for a $3.8 trillion budget-cutting plan for a
vote in Congress. The plan included tax increases as well as
spending cuts.  According to the Committee for a Responsible Federal
Budget, even if the supercommittee reaches agreement on $1.5
trillion in deficit reduction, that won’t arrest the debt’s
exponential growth. Debt as a percentage of gross domestic
product would still increase from 67 percent this year to more
than 75 percent by 2021, according to the committee’s estimates,
and it would take $3 trillion in deficit reduction to bring the
debt below 70 percent of GDP by 2021.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  