-- 
Dell Loses Orders as Facebook Do-It-Yourself Servers Gain: Tech

-- B y   I a n   K i n g   a n d   D i n a   B a s s
-- 
2011-09-12T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/dell-loses-orders-as-facebook-do-it-yourself-servers-gain-tech.html
When Facebook Inc. set out to build
two new data centers, engineers couldn’t find the server
computers they wanted from  Dell Inc. (DELL)  or  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  They
decided to build their own.  “We weren’t able to get exactly what we wanted,” Frank
Frankovsky, Facebook’s director of hardware design, said at a
conference on data-center technology last month.  Hewlett-Packard, Dell and companies that sell the computers
off the shelf are losing sales in a key market because Facebook
and larger rival  Google Inc. (GOOG)  are leading a switch among Internet
companies to do-it-yourself servers. These customized machines
now account for 20 percent of the U.S. market for servers, which
generated $31.9 billion globally in last year, said Jeffrey Hewitt, an analyst at Stamford, Connecticut-based Gartner Inc.  As sales of personal computers slump and consumers shift to
tablets such as Apple Inc.’s iPad, computer makers are becoming
more dependent on servers. Dell and Hewlett-Packard lose out
when they’re shunned by large customers such as Facebook, which
are outfitting data centers with thousands of servers.  “It’s definitely a threat to the traditional business
model,” said  Jim McGregor , chief technology  strategist  for
researcher In-Stat in Scottsdale,  Arizona . “Customers are
finding solutions that the industry wasn’t ready to provide.”  Buyers say custom servers provide a cheaper, more efficient
way of meeting the boom in demand for personal data shared via
the Web. A lot of that demand can be met by less expensive
machines shorn of the components, upgrades and backup services
that server makers traditionally offer to large corporations.  Hold the ‘Pickles’  “People want to be able to build it their way,”
Frankovsky said at the Dell-Samsung Chief Information Officer
Forum in Half Moon Bay, California. “They kind of want a Burger
King: ‘I don’t like pickles -- why do I have to have pickles?’”  The market for servers, which increased almost 20 percent
in the second quarter, is outpacing growth in desktop PCs as
companies upgrade their corporate networks and snap up the
thousands of servers needed to run data centers.  That traditionally has spurred demand for machines made by
Hewlett-Packard, Dell and  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) 
Yet surging costs for running and maintaining data centers is
causing Facebook and other companies to seek cheaper options.  Hewlett-Packard, which last month cut its profit forecast
for the third time since November, can’t afford to lose momentum
in one of its better-performing units. Hewlett-Packard’s revenue
from the servers that are typically deployed in so-called cloud-
computing data centers rose slower than the industry average in
the second quarter, according to Gartner.  Slow Growth  Dell, where sales have barely budged for two quarters,
needs to keep server customers happy too. Dell’s sales of
servers based on PC chips -- the type most often used in cloud-
computing data centers -- grew 4.4 percent in the June period,
according to Gartner. Cloud-computing networks store and deliver
software and services via the Internet.  In one indication of the growing demand for servers that
are being built from the ground up,  Intel Corp. (INTC)  said its revenue
from chips used to craft servers for data centers surged 50
percent in the second quarter.  Intel’s understanding that cloud data centers had different
needs was key to a turnaround in market share. The company share
of the cloud server-chip market is above 90 percent from a low
of 35 percent in 2007.  ‘Different Animal’  “It’s a completely different animal” than corporate
servers, said Rejeanne Skillern, head of marketing at Intel’s
cloud computing division.  Google, Facebook and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  have designed servers
that contain the minimum amount of components required for their
specific task. Facebook’s servers, for example, have custom
power supplies and circuit boards in sheet-metal enclosures
designed to maximize airflow with the minimum number of fans.  Those and other tweaks -- combined with a specially
designed facility -- boosted efficiency by 38 percent and
reduced the cost of building a  data center  in  Oregon  by 24
percent, according to the company.  Google’s servers are also built to the company’s
specifications, with hardware limited to what is needed for
applications to run. The machines run a stripped-down version of
the  Linux operating system  that leaves out unnecessary code.  Microsoft is hedging its bets. The software maker designs
its own servers. Yet it also has big computer makers build them,
sticking with suppliers that can provide worldwide support to
quickly fix any server that breaks down, said Dileep Bhandarkar,
chief architect of Microsoft’s Global Foundation Services.  Custom Designs  For the data centers that underpin its cloud services and
 Bing  search engine, Microsoft uses machines similar to the
scaled-down, low-power ones Google uses. Though instead of
making the hardware itself or through contractors, the company
has a team of engineers who create server designs. Microsoft
then commissions companies like Dell and Hewlett-Packard to
build the machines.  Computers makers must come up with products that fit the
new needs of data-center builders.  “Many of them are realizing they’re going to have to
address that,” said Gartner’s Hewitt, who is based in  San Jose ,
 California . “Most of this is being driven at the moment by
Google, but there are others who will look at it.”  Microsoft and other companies’ demands for tailor-made
machines leave server makers with a dilemma: go after build-to-
order market and accept lower profits, or lose customers and
relevance.  ‘Execution Team’  Hewlett-Packard sees the market as an avenue for growth,
said Jim Ganthier, vice president for marketing in the company’s
server unit.  “We’ve gotten entire design teams, we’ve got an entire
execution team that wakes up every morning thinking about
this,” he said. “If you think you’re going to go in there with
a generic off-the-shelf product, you’re going to lose.”  Dell, meanwhile, supplies customized servers to Microsoft
and Facebook, as well as Chinese Internet companies Tencent
Holdings Ltd. and Baidu Inc., said Tim Mattox, vice president of
worldwide enterprise product management.  “There’s quite a lot of opportunity, but there’s not a lot
of margin in it,” said Matthew Eastwood, an analyst at
Framingham, Massachusetts-based IDC.  The computer industry has little choice but to adapt. The
shift to using cheaper servers for cloud computing may spread
beyond Internet search and social media and find its way into
other areas, such as mobile-phone service providers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  