-- 
Deutsche Boerse-NYSE Deal Is Good for Europe

-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 
2011-09-12T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/deutsche-boerse-nyse-deal-is-good-for-europe-report-concludes.html
Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  and NYSE
Euronext’s planned merger will improve financial market
stability and competition in Europe and boost consolidation,
according to a report commissioned by the Frankfurt exchange
operator and published today.  The study by Hendrik Enderlein, a former European Central
Bank economist who is now a professor of political economy at
the Hertie School of Governance, concluded that the merger will
help Europe regain ground lost to other financial centers though
jobs will likely be eliminated in the process.  “The deal needs to be looked at not just from a
competition perspective but a wider one,” Henrik Enderlein, the
author of the report and a professor at the Hertie School, said
in an interview. “From a policy-making perspective the impact
of the merger on the European financial markets should be
assessed beyond the mere realm of economies of scale, market
share and competition.”  Deutsche Boerse  and  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  forecast cost savings of
400 million euros ($545 million) when they announced the plan to
create the world’s biggest owner of equities and derivative
markets in February. The Enderlein report follows the
publication last week of a study alleging that the merger plan
flouts German exchange rules, concluding that authorities should
block it as a result.  Last Hurdle  Regulatory approval is the last hurdle for Deutsche Boerse
and NYSE after both sets of shareholders approved the
combination. The plan is the focus of an extended antitrust
probe by the European Commission, which has set a Dec. 13
deadline to give its opinion on the deal. The all-stock
transaction would give Deutsche Boerse 60 percent of the
combined entity.  With regulators seeking greater transparency and safety for
investors in the wake of the financial crisis, the merger of
NYSE and Deutsche Boerse could lead to better risk management
and clearing for derivatives traded over the counter, Enderlein
said, declining to comment on how much off-exchange trading a
combined company could draw.  The costs of cross-border trading will fall, he said,
pointing to a 2009 study by the European Commission and Oxera
that found traders in major financial centres such as  France ,
 Germany  and the U.K. had an 8 basis-point average cost compared
with 11 basis points in peripheral centres such as Belgium and
 Norway  and 14 basis points in Greece and  Portugal .  Job Cuts  The Enderlein report concluded that the merger will likely
result in job reductions in the equity markets divisions even as
hiring beckons for the derivatives businesses in “the medium
term.”  “Past mergers, such as the NYSE-Euronext merger, tried to
downplay the negative employment effects, in this case on
Paris,” Enderlein wrote. “Looking at the numbers, however, it
is evident that some employment reduction took place. This has
created a natural scepticism on the part of policy makers,
employees and unions.”  From 2008 to 2010, about 20 percent of jobs were eliminated
at NYSE Euronext, and about 62 percent of severance payments
between 2008 and 2010 went to  Europe  “even if the published
headcount reduction was roughly 50:50 between the U.S. and
Europe,” Enderlein wrote.  “It can be expected that there will be negative employment
effects for those financial centres where the currently
declining cash-trading businesses are located,” he said.
“Taking into account the overall changing landscape of the
industry, there are very strong reasons to believe that this
trend would have materialized in any case due to the highly
competitive market environment and the commoditization of these
market segments.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  