-- 
Dubai Stocks Retreat to 3-Week Low on Greek Debt Concern, Crude Oil Drop

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-09-12T12:44:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/dubai-stocks-retreat-to-2-week-low-on-greek-debt-concern-crude-oil-drop.html
Persian Gulf shares fell, sending
Dubai’s index down the most in more than three weeks, on concern
Greece may default on its debt and as crude oil dropped.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , the developer of the world’s tallest
tower, slipped 1.4 percent. Dubai Financial Market PJSC, the
only Gulf Arab stock market to sell stock to the public,
retreated for a second day. The  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  lost 0.9
percent, the most since Aug. 21, to 1,460.20 at the 2 p.m. close
in Dubai. The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  of the region’s stocks
dropped 1.2 percent and the MSCI Emerging Markets Index declined
2.2 percent.  “Global factors continue to impact stock prices,” said
Nabil Farhat, a partner at Abu Dhabi-based Al Fajer Securities.
“Worry about the default of Greece and the slowing of global
economies in addition to the complications in Arab Spring
revolutions are causing investors to stay on the sidelines.”  German government officials are debating how to shore up
the nation’s banks should  Greece  fail to meet budget-cutting
terms of its aid package, three coalition officials said Sept.
9. Moody’s Investors Service may cut the credit ratings of BNP
Paribas SA, Societe Generale SA and Credit Agricole SA this week
because of their Greek holdings, two people with knowledge of
the matter said.  Arab Spring  About 80 million shares traded in Dubai today, compared
with the 12-month daily average of 123 million shares, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Oil for October delivery retreated as much as 2.6 percent
to $85 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Gulf Arab
oil exporters, including  Saudi Arabia  and the United Arab
Emirates, supply about a fifth of the world’s oil.  Egypt’s ruling military council declared a state of
emergency to restore order after protesters attacked the Israeli
embassy in Cairo. Israel’s Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu 
told his nation on Sept. 10 that the incident had damaged “the
fabric of peace” between the two countries while declaring his
commitment to the 32-year alliance.  Emaar dropped the most since Aug. 21 to 2.79 dirhams and
 Dubai Financial Market (DFM)  retreated 1.7 percent, also the most
since Aug. 21, to 1.13 dirhams.  Oman’s MSM 30 Index slipped 0.6 percent. SMN Power Holding
SAOG, a venture between International Power Plc, Mubadala
Development Co. and Oman’s National Trading Co., started an
initial share sale of a 35 percent stake in the company.
BankMuscat SAOG, the financial adviser on the IPO, fell 0.3
percent to 0.684 rial.  Abu Dhabi ’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  lost 0.4 percent and Qatar’s
 QE Index (DSM)  declined 1 percent. Bahrain’s BB All Share Index
dropped 0.4 percent, while Kuwait’s gauge slipped less than 0.1
percent. Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  retreated 1.7
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  