-- 
Technip Buys Global Industries for $937 Million to Expand in Subsea Orders

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-09-12T13:33:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/technip-buys-global-industries-in-937-million-subsea-expansion.html
Technip SA (TEC) , Europe’s second-biggest
oil services company, agreed to buy  Global Industries Ltd. (GLBL)  of
the U.S. for $937 million in cash to expand in the market for
underwater energy projects.  The offer price is $8 a share, 55 percent more than Global
Industries’ closing price on Sept. 9, Paris-based Technip said
today in a statement. It will also assume $136 million in debt.  The global market for subsea oil and gas infrastructure is
about $30 billion and the deal will expand the portion Technip
can supply from about one-third currently, Chief Executive
Officer Thierry Pilenko said. The price is about 1.4 times
Global Industries’ enterprise value, more expensive than the 1.1
multiple of 10 recent deals in the energy-services industry,
according to Bloomberg data.  “It’s a game changer for Technip in subsea and will
broaden their client scope,” said Bastien Dublanc, a analyst at
RBC  Europe  Ltd. The high valuation “is a strong reminder of the
underlying long-term drivers of the industry,” he added.  Global Industries rose $2.62, or 51 percent, to $7.77 at
9:30 a.m. on the Nasdaq Stock Market. Technip fell as much as
3.9 percent in Paris and pared its loss to 1.4 percent. The
shares are down 6.9 percent this year.  Global Industries will add 14 vessels, bringing Technip’s
fleet to 34, and will expand its market by around 30 percent in
deep-to-shore subsea infrastructure, according to the statement.  Earnings Addition  The purchase, unanimously approved by the board of Carlyss,
Louisiana-based based Global Industries, will add about 5 to 7
percent to Technip’s earnings per share in 2013, Pilenko said.
The deal is scheduled to be completed early next year.  “The subsea market looks likely in 2011 to show a record
amount of orders for our industry,” Pilenko said in the
statement. Offshore projects are expected to start in  Brazil ,
the  Gulf of Mexico , West Africa and Asia Pacific, he said.  High  oil prices , combined with increasing demand for
natural gas, are driving investments according to Technip, which
makes equipment for oil and gas exploration and builds liquefied
natural gas installations. Its biggest competitor in Europe is
 Italy ’s Saipem SpA.  The extra vessels will reinforce Technip’s presence in the
Gulf of Mexico and the  Middle East  and help the French company
compete with Saipem, according to Dublanc.  Due Diligence  The French company carried out “extensive and intensive”
due diligence on Global Industries, examining so-called paper
values of assets as well as physical inspections, Chief
Financial Officer Julian Waldron said. He said he doesn’t see a
risk of writing down the value of the assets in the future or
from Global’s existing order book.  Technip is seeking to broaden the range of its services to
producers including Exxon Mobil Corp., Royal Dutch Shell Plc,
Total SA and  Saudi Aramco , Waldron said in an interview in May.
Increasing investment and shareholder payouts were higher
priorities than carrying out any large-scale acquisition, he
said at the time, when he estimated the company had about $1.5
billion in cash reserves.  Technip’s financial advisers were Blackstone Advisory
Partners and Tudor, Pickering, Holt & Co. Securities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  