-- 
Medscheme Sees Fivefold International Revenue Rise on Expansion, CEO Says

-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 
2011-09-12T11:22:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/medscheme-sees-fivefold-international-revenue-rise-on-expansion-ceo-says.html
Medscheme Ltd. , a South African
medical insurance administrator, expects business outside the
continent’s biggest economy to raise its revenue contribution
fivefold by 2015, Chief Executive Officer Andre Meyer said.  International business makes up 8 percent of the company’s
revenue and the target is to reach 40 percent in four years,
Meyer said in a Sept. 9 interview in Ebene, south of Port Louis,
Mauritius’s capital.  “There is a base of 28.5 million people in the African
market where there will be demand for the healthcare,” Meyer
said. “We are also targeting Ireland, U.K.,  Europe  and reaching
the American market through acquisitions of companies in
 India .”  Revenue was 1.4 billion rand ($191 million) in the year
through June and is expected to increase as much as 20 percent
through 2012, driven by acquisitions in South Africa and abroad,
Meyer said. South Africa’s government will begin implementing a
compulsory medical insurance plan in April, starting with a
pilot program in 10 districts that will be rolled out across the
country over 14 years.  The ruling  African National Congress  agreed to the plan in
September last year, estimating it would cost 128 billion rand
in its first year in 2012, rising to 267 billion rand by 2020.  “The future growth that we see in  South Africa  will be
from further consolidation in three to five years, growth in the
government employees’ medical scheme and national health
insurance,” Meyer said. “It puts us in a very good position to
be a potential player.”  Medscheme’s largest client is  VHI , Ireland’s biggest
healthcare insurance company, for which it handles medical
claims, Meyer said.  Medscheme plans an acquisition in the U.K. and is in
advanced talks with two services providers in India, enabling it
to gain access to the U.S. market, he said. Mauritius “will be
the base” for the company’s international expansion, Meyer
said. Medscheme bought Mauritius’s Administrators and
Consultants Ltd. in September 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in  Port Louis  via Johannesburg at 
1933 or  gbell16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  