-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Fall to Three-Week Low on Concern Greece to Default

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-09-12T21:02:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/emerging-market-stocks-head-for-two-week-low-on-concerns-of-greek-default.html
Emerging-market stocks declined,
sending the benchmark index to a three-week low, and currencies
weakened amid speculation  Greece  is moving closer to default.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell 2.3 percent to 969.97
at 4:30 p.m. in  New York . The U.S.-listed iShares MSCI Emerging
Markets Index exchange-traded fund slipped 0.2 percent, paring
an early drop of 2.6 percent after a report that Italy was in
talks with  China  about possible investments.  India ’s rupee,
Brazil’s real, South Korea’s won and the South African rand
depreciated at least 1.4 percent against the dollar.  Financial companies led declines in the MSCI index after
three coalition officials said on Sept. 9 that members of
Chancellor Angela Merkel’s government are debating how to shore
up German banks should Greece fail to meet the budget-cutting
terms of its aid package. Stocks rallied from their lows of the
day as the Financial Times said that  Italy ’s government was in
talks with China Investment Corp. about “significant”
purchases of Italian bonds and investments in strategic
companies.  “Risk assets have sold off sharply at the start of the
trading week, with renewed concerns about the prospects of a
Greek default the primary driver of the price action,”
emerging-market analysts at  RBC Capital Markets  including Robert Beange in  London  wrote in an e-mailed report. “European Union
support for further assistance, particularly in Germany, is
clearly wavering, increasing pessimism that a disruptive
resolution to the crisis cannot be avoided.”  Falling Valuations  The MSCI index has retreated almost 20 percent from this
year’s high on May 2 as  Europe ’s debt crisis and a slowdown in
U.S. hiring threaten to curb the global economic expansion. The
21-country index is valued at 9.1 times analysts’ 12-month
earnings estimates, down from 11.6 times at the beginning of the
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The CBOE Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a gauge of
the cost of using options as insurance against declines in the
iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded fund,
climbed 1.3 percent to 50.70, the highest level since Aug. 10.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries was unchanged at 3.84 percentage
points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  Italian bond yields surged at an auction today as Greek
Prime Minister  George Papandreou  failed to reassure investors
that his country can avert default. Europe’s recovery is
“fragile” and sovereign-debt levels will keep rising through
2012, the European Commission said.  Hungary Mortgages  Russia’s Micex Index lost 1.7 percent, while the Czech PX
Index retreated 3.7 percent and Poland’s WIG20 Index dropped 3
percent. Hungary’s BUX Index of shares slid 2.9 percent, with
Mol Nyrt., the nation’s biggest oil company, lost 6.3 percent.  The forint weakened for a third day against the euro,
losing 0.7 percent. Hungarian banks were suspended from trading
as the government prepared to unveil a plan which may force
lenders to swallow losses on foreign-currency mortgage loans.  Most stocks in  Brazil ’s Bovespa index rose after the real’s
decline boosted the outlook for exporters including Fibria
Celulose SA and Klabin SA. The Bovespa closed down 0.2 percent,
after earlier falling as much as 2.6 percent.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of Chinese companies
listed in  Hong Kong  sank to its lowest close since May 2009 even
after data showed Chinese imports surged to a record and lending
rebounded. Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd., the
world’s largest lender by market value, fell 5.3 percent.  India’s BSE India Sensitive Index fell 2.2 percent after
the nation’s industrial production grew at the slowest pace in
almost two years. Output at factories, utilities and mines rose
3.3 percent in July from a year ago, the Central Statistics
Office said in a statement today. The median of 25 estimates in
a Bloomberg News survey was for a 6.2 percent increase.  Exchanges in  South Korea ,  Taiwan  and China were closed for
holidays.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Patterson in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  