-- 
Energy Future Sues to Block EPA Cross-State Pollution Rules

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g ,   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n   a n d   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 
2011-09-12T22:56:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/energy-future-units-sue-to-block-epa-interstate-air-pollution-regulations.html
Energy Future Holdings Corp. units
in  Texas  filed a lawsuit challenging Environmental Protection
Agency rules aimed at curbing cross-state pollution, saying the
measure would cost it $1.5 billion through 2020 and at least 500
jobs.  The Dallas-based power company, which was taken private in
2007 in the largest buyout in history, today asked the  U.S.
Court of Appeals  in  Washington  to review the rule, which
mandates that 27 states reduce emissions of sulfur dioxide and
nitrogen oxide.  Energy Future said it will ask the court to delay
enforcement of the rule, set to begin in January, while the case
is being decided. The company said it would be forced to shutter
1,200 megawatts of coal-fired generation to comply with the new
standard, and would halt mining operations that provide coal to
the idled power plants.  “Meeting this unrealistic deadline also forces us to take
steps that will idle facilities and result in the loss of
jobs,”  David Campbell , chief executive officer of Luminant
Holding Co., an Energy Future unit, said in a statement.  ‘Bait-and-Switch’  The EPA has been working with Luminant to explore options
that would allow the company to meet new standards and avoid
firing workers and shutting facilities, Gina McCarthy, an
assistant administrator for the EPA, said in an e-mailed
statement.  “It is unfortunate that the company leadership rushed to a
decision that needlessly puts their workers’ jobs at risks,”
McCarthy said.  Energy Future said it objected to the inclusion of Texas
power plants in the final EPA rule. The state had been excluded
from a preliminary version of the regulation.  “The EPA has pulled a ‘bait-and-switch’ on Texas by not
including our state in the most draconian portions of this rule
until the final publication,” Barry Smitherman, a commissioner
with the Railroad Commission of Texas, said in a statement. The
three-member commission regulates the state’s oil and gas
industries, natural-gas utilities and coal mining.  Texas Governor  Rick Perry , a Republican who is running for
the party’s presidential nomination, appointed Smitherman to the
railroad commission in July. Smitherman is the former chairman
of the Public Utility Commission of Texas, which regulates the
state’s electric utilities.  AEP, NRG  Today’s announcement on plant closings won’t affect Energy
Future’s debt covenants, the company said in an e-mailed
statement. In July, Energy Future said the new power plant
standards will lead to a $400 million non-cash charge in the
third quarter.  The charge, to write down the value of pollution allowances,
won’t cause a default on any of its debt agreements or have a
material impact on liquidity, the company said at the time.  American Electric Power Co. is deciding whether to join
with other parties or to file its own lawsuit, said Pat Hemlepp,
a company spokesman. The Columbus, Ohio-based power producer
operates coal-fired plants that generate about 2,650 megawatts
of electricity in Texas.  NRG Energy, the largest U.S. independent power producer,
doesn’t plan to join the lawsuit, said David Knox, a spokesman
for the Princeton, New Jersey-based company. NRG owns about
11,000 megawatts of generation in Texas, enough to power about
8.8 million homes. Of that total, about 4,180 megawatts is
generated by coal-fired plants.  “We continue to evaluate all of our options, but we feel
we can comply with the new rules,” Knox said in a telephone
interview.  Energy Future faces significant new costs as it struggles
with debt resulting from its going-private transaction.  Pollution Investments  The holding company said today it expects to invest $280
million in new pollution controls by the end of 2012 and $1.5
billion by 2020. Energy Future posted a net loss of $705 million
during the second quarter as sales fell 16 percent to $1.68
billion.  Facing a decline in natural-gas and power prices, Energy
Future has sought to reduce its risk of default by extending
debt maturities and asking bondholders to swap their holdings at
discounted prices for new securities. In April, lenders agreed
to refinance about $17.8 billion of the company’s debt.  Contracts protecting against Energy Future’s default for
five years increased 1.8 percentage points to 54.8 percent
upfront, according to data provider CMA. That’s in addition to 5
percent a year, meaning it would cost $5.48 million initially
and $500,000 annually to protect $10 million of Energy Future’s
debt.  Credit-Default Swaps  Contracts on the company’s Texas Competitive unit added 0.7
percentage point to 65.4 percent upfront, according to CMA,
which is owned by  CME Group Inc. (CME)  and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. The contracts, which investors use to hedge against losses
on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, decline
as investor confidence improves and rise as it deteriorates.  The case is Luminant Generation Co. LLC v. Environmental
Protection Agency, 11-1315, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
 District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Johnsson in  Chicago  at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ; Susan
Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 