-- 
EPA Got It Wrong, Obama Got It Right on Ozone Limits: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-09-12T00:00:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/epa-got-it-wrong-obama-got-it-right-on-setting-new-limits-on-ozone-view.html
President  Barack Obama  is being
hammered by environmentalists for  deciding  not to tighten
regulations on ground-level ozone, as the  Environmental
Protection Agency  recommended.  We think he made the right move. Changing the rules now --
two years ahead of their scheduled reconsideration -- would have
hurt both businesses and consumers at a vulnerable time.  The EPA’s plan stood on shaky scientific ground as well.
The agency should prepare a sounder recommendation before the
standard must be revisited in 2013.  The federal government places limits on ground-level ozone,
a component of smog, because high levels can irritate people’s
respiratory systems. Man-made ozone (some of it comes from
plants) forms when cars, industrial plants and other polluters
emit volatile organic compounds and nitrogen oxides in the
presence of sunlight.  Ozone can cause breathing difficulties in people with
respiratory diseases and reduced lung capacity in people engaged
in strenuous activity. The effects, however, are generally
temporary, tending to subside when the person goes indoors.  In 2008, EPA scientists recommended lowering the ozone
limit in the earth-hugging troposphere from the Clinton-era
standard of 84 parts of ozone per billion parts of air to 65 or
70 parts per billion. Under the  Bush administration , however,
the agency settled for 75 ppb.  Early Review  There is no requirement to review the rule until 2013, but
with a greener president in the White House, the EPA moved to
update it this year. The agency proposed setting the threshold
at 60 to 70 ppb, to be achieved by 2020. (Each state would need
to offer a compliance plan or risk having one imposed by the
federal government or losing highway funds.)  In making this proposal, the EPA assessed the value of the
60 ppb limit to public health at $30 billion to $87 billion in
2020 -- in part because the agency contends it would prevent
4,000 to 12,000 premature  deaths  in that year. But these
estimates are misleading because they include the benefits of
reducing exposure to fine particles, which the EPA can and does
limit through a separate regulation.  Moreover, it’s impossible to know for sure whether ozone
causes death. The EPA cites a  review  by the National Research
Council that said ozone exposure is “likely” to “contribute” to
premature death. But the review of studies doesn’t establish
causality with certainty. Rather, it leans on human tests
showing ill effects from exposure to ozone at doses much higher
than current standards allow and on observational studies that
attempt to draw a correlation between ozone levels and health
data.  Many such studies show a positive association between
elevated ozone levels and ill health, yet quite a few show no
association or an inverse one. In its report, the National
Research Council stresses the uncertainty of its finding and
urges the EPA to conduct further work before drawing conclusions
from it.  High Price Tag  It would arguably make sense to play it super-safe with
ozone and lower the standard anyway, if the cost was moderate.
But the EPA has estimated the price tag to meet the 60 ppb
standard could rise to $90 billion in 2020. And that figure is
probably conservative. As  Bloomberg Government  analysts
concluded in February, the EPA optimistically assumes that 80
percent of required emission reductions would come from cheap,
yet-to-be-invented technology. Bloomberg Government found a $1
trillion-per-year estimate by the industry trade group
 Manufacturers Alliance/MAPI  to be more realistic, if somewhat
overstated.  As President Obama noted in rejecting the EPA’s plan, with
the economy threatening to slip into another recession, this is
not a good moment to saddle U.S. businesses and consumers with
additional ozone compliance costs.  Actually, such a moment may never come, if you consider the
part of the ozone story the EPA’s calculations left out.
Tropospheric ozone isn’t all bad; like ozone high in the
stratosphere, it blocks ultraviolent radiation from the sun.
According to several  studies , reducing ground-level ozone would
increase the incidence of cataracts and skin cancer, which
certainly can cause death.  Might that offset the respiratory health benefits of ozone
reduction? We won’t know until the EPA factors in both effects.
The agency should use the next two years to find the answer.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net  