-- 
Merk Offers Equity Mutual Fund Enhanced With Foreign-Exchange Positions

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-09-12T04:00:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/merk-offers-equity-mutual-fund-enhanced-with-foreign-exchange-positions.html
Merk Investments LLC, which manages
three foreign-exchange mutual funds with about $860 million in
assets, said it will offer an equity fund that seeks to use
currency positions to maximize returns.  The Merk Currency Enhanced U.S. Equity Fund will use
exchange-traded funds, such as the SPDR  S&P 500  ETF Trust, to
track the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. Through a so-called
currency overlay, the fund will enter long or short foreign-
exchange positions to increase profits and protect against
market risk, according to Axel Merk, president and chief
investment officer of the  Palo Alto , California-based firm.  “The reason we put this together is because investors have
been coming to us, both large and small, that there is a need
for them to manage their  currency risk  more actively,” Merk
said in a telephone interview.  The  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  fell 1.7 percent last week to 1154.23. It
has dropped 16 percent since reaching a three-year high of
1370.58 on May 2. IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index,
which tracks the greenback against the currencies of its six
biggest trading partners, has fallen 2.4 percent this year.  A sovereign debt crisis in  Europe , budget fights in the U.S.
and a stagnating economy around the world are increasing
investor concern. JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Group of Seven
Volatility Index, which reflects investor expectations of
currency swings in the future, jumped to 14.7 percent on Aug. 11,
the highest level since June 2010.  Merk Sells Euros  “We are explicitly adding the foreign currency exposure to
the S&P 500, which in our view gives investors a better risk
return profile, gives them international exposure without
actually having to go overseas,” Merk said.  Merk said last week the model he uses to help make currency
allocations within his funds is 100 percent negative on the
dollar. The self-acknowledged “euro bull” sold $90 million of
euros from his Hard Currency Fund and re-allocated it into
Australian dollars as the  European Central Bank  becomes more
likely to lower borrowing rates.  The Currency Enhanced U.S. Equity Fund will be available to
individual and institutional investors and will join the
company’s Hard Currency Fund, Asian Currency Fund and Absolute
Return Currency Fund.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  