-- 
Merkel, Roesler Clash on Greece as Talk of Default Deepens Coalition Split

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 
2011-09-12T12:47:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/merkel-clashes-with-coalition-ally-roesler-over-solution-to-greece-crisis.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
government lurched into open conflict over tackling the debt
crisis, as Merkel called for Greece to get more time and her
coalition allies suggested it may need to default and leave the
euro area.  The deepening divisions underscore Merkel’s challenge of
keeping her three-party coalition united behind bailout aid for
Greece as she seeks to prevent a breakup of the euro while
prodding  Europe  toward more joint economic and fiscal policies.
A state election in Berlin on Sept. 18, the last of seven this
year that have seen the coalition parties punished amid bailout
fatigue, further adds to the political pressure.  “To stabilize the euro in the short term there can’t be
any taboos,” Philipp Roesler, the vice chancellor and economy
minister who heads Merkel’s Free Democratic coalition partner,
said in an op-ed published in Die Welt newspaper today and e-
mailed by his party. “That ultimately includes  Greece ’s orderly
insolvency, if the necessary instruments are available.”  Roesler’s comments contrasted with Merkel’s message in an
interview published in the Tagesspiegel newspaper in which she
said that Germans must be “patient” with Greece as it strives
to reduce its debt. Michael Meister, her  Christian Democratic
Union ’s finance spokesman in parliament, said today that forcing
Greece out of the euro “can’t be our goal.”  Euro Declines  The euro dropped to its lowest level since 2001 against the
yen and slid versus the dollar today on speculation that  Germany 
is preparing for a Greek default. The 17-nation currency fell to
a six-month low versus the dollar last week as credit-default
swaps showed a more than 90 percent probability that Greece
won’t meet its debt commitments.  Merkel’s call for patience “doesn’t contradict” the
requirement for Greece to meet debt-reduction goals to continue
receiving bailout aid, Steffen Seibert, Merkel’s chief
spokesman, told reporters in Berlin when asked about the
differing views in her coalition.  Euro countries that can’t service their debt “in the
foreseeable future” must have the chance to restructure it, the
 Christian Social Union , the Bavarian ally of Merkel’s CDU and
the third party in her coalition, said in a draft position
paper. National bank-rescue funds would have to handle any
resulting losses for holders of Greek sovereign bonds, it said.  ‘Don’t Make It’  Policy makers shouldn’t exclude a Greek “exit” from the
euro, CSU chairman Horst Seehofer said yesterday in an interview
on ZDF television. “If the Greeks don’t make it despite all of
their efforts, you can’t rule out this idea.”  Signs that Germany may be getting ready to give up on
Greece increased as three coalition officials said Sept. 9 that
Merkel’s government is debating how to shore up German banks in
the event that Greece fails to meet the budget-cutting terms of
its aid package and is unable to get its next bailout payment.  “Every ministry examines hypothetical possibilities,”
Finance Ministry spokesman Martin Kreienbaum told reporters in
Berlin today, when asked whether his department has a “plan B”
for Greece’s debt crisis.  Lars Feld, a German government adviser, said that he’s sure
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  is drawing up an emergency
plan to put pressure on Greece while “playing through all the
different alternatives,” he said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television.  ‘Deeper Integration’  Merkel hasn’t revealed her hand, saying in a Sept. 9 speech
that the euro can only survive “if there is deeper integration
and also more dependability” on adhering to debt rules.  Germany would act against its own interests if it stopped
financial aid to Greece, Merkel said in the interview with
Tagesspiegel, according to a transcript e-mailed by the CDU.
“What was ignored for years can’t be fixed overnight,” she
said. “That means that we have to be patient.”  Forcing Greece out of the euro region would invite
financial markets to speculate against other members of the
bloc, risking a collapse of the currency union, Meister said on
N24 television today.  “That can’t be our goal, considering how successful the
European Union and the euro have been in the past years for all
of us, especially us Germans,” Meister said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at  jhertling@bloomberg. 