-- 
EU Says Euro-Area Recovery Is ‘Fragile,’ Debt Set to Rise

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-09-12T10:14:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-12/eu-says-euro-region-recovery-remains-fragile-debt-set-to-rise.html
The European Commission said the
region’s recovery remains “fragile” and sovereign-debt levels
will continue to increase through 2012 as governments struggle
in the aftermath of the recession.  “The overall economic situation remains fragile” and “in
some countries the recovery is yet to be felt,” the Brussels-
based commission said in its 2011 Report on Public Finances
today. “The years of the crisis left behind a legacy, not just
of support measures that need to be reversed, but of lasting
weaknesses to the public finances.”  European governments are struggling to lower their budget
deficits and restore investor confidence in their ability to
contain a crisis that sparked bailouts of  Greece , Ireland and
 Portugal . In the 17-member euro region, the economy expanded at
the weakest pace in the second quarter since emerging from a
2009 recession, partly as governments cut spending.  The commission sees average euro-region state debt rising
to 88.7 percent of gross domestic product in 2012 from 87.9
percent this year, today’s report showed. Greece’s debt burden
may swell to 166.1 percent of GDP from 157.7 percent, making it
the highest in the region. Italy may have the second-highest
debt level in 2012, it said.  ‘More Cautious’  The euro dropped to its lowest level since 2001 against the
yen today and depreciated versus the dollar on speculation that
German Chancellor Angela Merkel is preparing for a Greek
default. Merkel is due to hold talks on the debt crisis with
European Commission President  Jose Barroso  today.  “The optimism of the spring that the European economy is
emerging into the post-crisis world has become more cautious,”
 Marco Buti , head of the commission’s economics division, said in
an e-mailed statement. “This optimism is moreover further muted
by the risks associated with the member states with high spreads
on their bond yields, as concerns about solvency” persist.  The Greek Cabinet voted yesterday to cut one month’s wages
from elected officials and impose an annual charge on all
property for two years, Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos
said. The measures will help the country meet deficit targets of
17.1 billion euros ($23.3 billion) this year and 14.9 billion
euros in 2012.  The commission said that details in countries’ Stability
and Convergence Programs “are encouraging,” with governments
planning to “introduce necessary changes in the near future
rather than postponing them with uncertain results.”  “The need for consolidation shouldn’t be underestimated,”
the commission said. “There is always the risk that extra
measures won’t be introduced as it’s clear that consolidation
measures tend to have a political cost.”  While the economic recovery is “under way, the fiscal
repair process” and its costs will “last for years to come,”
the commission said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  